{"id": "38521193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38521193", "title": "1946 in philosophy", "text": "1946 in philosophy\n\n1946 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36634965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36634965", "title": "Alberta Playwrights Network", "text": "Alberta Playwrights Network\n\nThe Alberta Playwrights Network (APN) is a professional association that was founded in 1985 to develop and support playwrights. It hosts a competition called the New Play Development Program. Gordon Pengilly is a dramaturge for the Alberta Playwrights Network, as is Gisèle Villeneuve. Sharon Pollock was elected president of the Alberta Playwrights Network in 1998. Sandra Dempsey had previously been the president. The Alberta Playwrights Network supported Katherine Koller in writing such plays as \"The Seed Savers\". The association produces a newsletter called \"Rave Review\". The Alberta Playwrights Network has also engaged in playwright exchanges with other associations, including the Saskatchewan Playwrights Centre and the Playwrights Theatre Centre. The Alberta Playwrights Network also presented an annual award with Scripts At Work called the Scripts At Work/Alberta Playwrights Network Award.\n"}
{"id": "28925798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28925798", "title": "Ali Haghshenas", "text": "Ali Haghshenas\n\nHaghshenas is also founder and chairman of Iran Taekwondo Association, the first N.G.O in Iran Sport, Iran Martial Arts Professionals Union and G.S of Iran N.G.Os Sport Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26784829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26784829", "title": "Arnfinn Moland", "text": "Arnfinn Moland\n\nArnfinn Moland (born 25 August 1951) is a Norwegian historian.\n\nHe was born in Kvinesdal. He finished his secondary education in Flekkefjord in 1970, served in His Majesty the King's Guard from 1973 to 1974, and graduated from the University of Oslo with the cand.philol. degree in 1977. His master's thesis was \"Prissubsider eller støtte? Striden om melkeparagrafen 1972\". From 1977 to 1978 he took a pedagogical education. He was also active in athletics. Representing Kvinesdal IL, he achieved a long jump of 6.91 metres in July 1978 at Lovisenlund in Larvik. He had 14.34 metres in the triple jump, achieved in July 1978 at Stovnerbanen in Oslo.\n\nMoland was hired as a researcher by Norway's Resistance Museum in 1978. From 1993 to 1997 he worked for the Norwegian Institute for Defence Studies. He was the director of Norway's Resistance Museum from 1995, from 1998 with the title of associate professor.\n\nHis first major book was \"Hjemmefront\", volume six of the series \"Norge i krig\". The volume was released in 1987 together with Ivar Kraglund. In 1997 he released \"\"Strengt hemmelig\". Norsk etterretningsteneste 1945-1970\", about Norwegian intelligence, together with Olav Riste. In the same year he released \"Milorg i Stor-Oslo. Distrikt 13s historie\" together with Terje Diesen, about the Greater Oslo district of Milorg. In 1999 followed \"Over grensen? Hjemmefrontens likvidasjoner under den tyske okkupasjonen av Norge 1940-1945\" about Norwegian liquidations of Nazi collaborators. This book has been described as a contrast to Egil Ulateig's book \"Med rett til å drepe\".\n\nHe also contributed to film. He was a screenwriter and co-director of the film \"Rapport fra \"Nr. 24\"\" about Gunnar Sønsteby. The book \"Gunnar Sønsteby. 24 kapitler i Kjakans liv\" followed in 2004. In 2008 Moland published the book \"Max Manus. Film og virkelighet\", which followed the release of the film \"Max Manus\". Exploring the relationship between the film and the real-life Max Manus, the book was written together with the film's screenwriter Thomas Nordseth-Tiller.\n\nMoland has not been entirely uncontroversial as a historian. In 2000 he accused Norwegian newspapers of printing untrue stories about the Norwegian resistance movement, because \"relatives of Nasjonal Samling sympathizers\" sat as editors in these newspapers. The statement was sharply criticized by editors such as Harald Stanghelle, Steinar Hansson and Gudleiv Forr.\n"}
{"id": "9242822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9242822", "title": "Athanasius II Baldoyo", "text": "Athanasius II Baldoyo\n\nAthanasius II Baldoyo (Syriac: \"ܐܬܢܐܣܝܘܣ ܕܬܪܝܢ ܒܠܕܝܐ\", Arabic: \"اثناسيوس الثاني البلدي\"), also known as Athanasius of Balad and Athanasius of Nisibis, was the Patriarch of Antioch, and head of the Syriac Orthodox Church from 683 until his death in 686.\n\nAthanasius was born in the city of Balad in Upper Mesopotamia and studied sciences, Syriac and Greek, with his friend Jacob, under the tutelage of Severus Sebokht at the Monastery of Qinnasrin. He moved to the Monastery of Beth Malke, near Antioch, not the Monastery of Mar Malke in Tur Abdin as originally believed, and became a monk. Athanasius studied philosophy and translated several Greek theological and philosophical works into Syriac, such as Porphyry's \"Isagoge\" in January 645.\n\nAthanasius later became a priest and moved to Nisibis, where he continued to translate Greek texts into Syriac. In 666-667, he translated nine treatises of the \"Hexameron\" of Basil of Caesarea, as suggested by Matthew, Bishop of Aleppo, and Daniel, Bishop of Edessa. Matthew and Daniel later requested a translation of several letters of Severus of Antioch into Syriac which was complete in 669, under the pen-name of \"Athanasius of Nisibis\". Athanasius also translated Severus' \"Second Discourse against Nephalius\", several homilies by Gregory of Nazianzus, and the \"Corpus Areopagiticum\" by Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite.\n\nAthanasius was consecrated patriarch at the end of 683 and issued a ten-page proclamation, and four canons on Christian conduct with Muslims. He condemned the consumption of sacrificial meat, participation in Muslim festivals, and relationships with Muslims. In 684, he ordained his friend Jacob as bishop of Edessa. Athanasius also wrote a number of supplication prayers, several of which were to be used at the celebration of the Eucharist, and prayers for the dead. He died at the end of 686.\n\n"}
{"id": "11082784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11082784", "title": "Bagrat Shinkuba", "text": "Bagrat Shinkuba\n\nBagrat Uasyl-ipa Shinkuba (; ; 12 May 1917 in Chlou, Ochamchira District, Sukhum Okrug, Kutais Governorate – 25 February 2004) was an Abkhaz writer, poet, historian, linguist and politician. He studied history and languages of Abkhaz, Adyghe and Ubykh people. His novel \"The Last of the Departed\" is dedicated to the tragic destiny of Ubykh nation, which became extinct along a hundred of years.\n\nIn 1958—1978 he was the Chairman of the Supreme Council Presidium of the Abkhaz ASSR.\n\nAccording to Jumber Patiashvili, in 1947 Shinkuba sent a letter \"to Kremlin, requesting from Stalin and Beria separation of Abkhazia from Georgia and awarding it the status of an independent republic.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40502053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40502053", "title": "Casimir Freschot", "text": "Casimir Freschot\n\nCasimir Freschot (1640? – October 20, 1720) was a French historian, chronicler and translator. \nHe was the author of about fifty works, both in French, Italian and Latin on various historical and contemporary subjects, the most notable being \"Li pregi della Nobiltà Veneta abbozzati in un giuoco d'arme\", published in Venice in 1682, \"Origine, progressi e ruina del calvinismo nella Francia, ragguaglio istorico di D. Casimiro Freschot\", published in 1693, and \"Histoire du congrès et de la paix d'Utrecht - par C. Freschot\", published in 1716.\n\nBorn in Morteau around 1640, he became a novice in the benedictine Saint-Maur congregation, and was ordained on March 20, 1663 in the Saint-Vincent de Besançon monastery.\n\nIn 1674 he moved to Italy, first in Rome, then in Bologna, finally joining the benedictine congregation in Montecassino. Around 1700 he returned to the lay state and moved to the Netherlands, in Utrecht, where he earned a living teaching literature and history. During his stay in the Netherlands, he published (1706-1707) the monthly \"Entretiens sur les affaires du temps\". Having returned to France, Freschot was reintegrated as a monk in the Saint-Vanne congregation in 1718. He died in 1720, in the Abbey of Luxeuil.\n"}
{"id": "6288201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6288201", "title": "Classical Association of Scotland", "text": "Classical Association of Scotland\n\nThe Classical Association of Scotland is a learned society founded in 1902. It brings together researchers in classical studies throughout Scotland and holds regular meetings.\n\nProfessor Douglas Cairns of the University of Edinburgh is its chairman of council. Some older records of the association are held by Glasgow University Archive Services.\n\n"}
{"id": "9581078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9581078", "title": "Clóvis Beviláqua", "text": "Clóvis Beviláqua\n\nClóvis Beviláqua (4 October 1859 – 26 July 1944) was a Brazilian jurist, historian and journalist born in Viçosa do Ceará, Ceará, in 1859. Beviláqua was professor of civil and comparative law in Recife. As the author of the Brazilian Civil Code of 1916, whose first draft he presented in 1899, and as that code's first commentator, Beviláqua was the founding father of Brazilian civil law scholarship. He founded and occupied the 14th chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters, from 1897 until his death in 1944. The chair's patron is Franklin Távora.\n\n"}
{"id": "45314731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45314731", "title": "Colony of Greenland (1950–1953)", "text": "Colony of Greenland (1950–1953)\n\nFrom 1950 to 1953, When North Greenland and South Greenland were united, Greenland was a Colony of Denmark with one governor. In 1953 Greenland was made an equal part of Denmark as a Amt (country subdivision).\n"}
{"id": "58892915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58892915", "title": "Composing hut of Gustav Mahler (Wörthersee)", "text": "Composing hut of Gustav Mahler (Wörthersee)\n\nThe composing hut of Gustav Mahler, German: Gustav Mahler-Komponierhäuschen, is a little museum and memorial in Maiernigg, near Maria Wörth in Carinthia, Austria. It is dedicated to the classical composer Gustav Mahler (1860-1911). In this hut he retreated from 1900 to 1907 in order to compose music. Since 7 July 1986 a permanent exhibition can be seen here.\n\nThere is also a composing hut at the Attersee, Upper Austria, and one next to the Gustav Mahler Stube in South Tyrol, Italy.\n\nIn a display cabinet visitors can view material that remind of the composer, like photographs, original sheet music, postcards, letters and his death certificate. A bronze bust is placed in the room. Also a little library can be consulted there.\n\nVisitors can listen to Mahler's music, inside as well as outside the hut through loudspeakers. Since the renewal of 2016 also art expressions are allowed near the hut.\n\nMahler came to Maiernigg in 1900 and had this composing hut built by Alfred Theuer from 1900 to 1901. He retreated to this hut in order to compose music. At the time he was director and conductor of the court opera of Vienna (later the Vienna State Opera). The hut was of practical use for Mahler, because there was no time left for him to compose when he was in Vienna. He called the hut \"Study auf dem Kogel\"\n\nIn Maiernigg he completed his 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and parts of 8th symphony. After his daughter Maria died on 12 July 1907, Mahler left his vacation home and went to Schluderbach in South Tyrol, Italy, where he spent the rest op his vacation.\n\nThe composing hut was declared a cultural heritage in 1981. In 1985 it was renovated by the Gustav Mahler society from Klagenfurt. It was opened on 7 July 1986. This society does not exist any more and the composing hut is being maintained by the city of Klagenfurt. It was renewed in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "55578565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55578565", "title": "Cynthia Damon", "text": "Cynthia Damon\n\nCynthia Ellen Murray Damon (born 1957) is a Professor of Classical Studies at the University of Pennsylvania and has written extensively on Latin literature and Roman historiography, having published translations and commentaries on authors such as Caesar and Tacitus.\n\nCynthia Damon received her B.A. in History from Stanford University in 1979, M.A. in Classics from Boston College in 1984 and Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1990, as well as an honorary A.M. from Amherst College in 2004.\n\nDamon taught at Harvard University as Assistant Professor from 1990-1995, at Amherst College as Assistant Professor and Professor 1995-2007, and moved to the University of Pennsylvania as Professor of Classical Studies in 2007. In 2015 Damon was awarded the College of Liberal and Professional Studies Distinguished Teaching Award for Standing Faculty.\n\nDamon was the editor of \"Transactions of the American Philological Association\" from 2001 to 2005 and member of the Board of Directors of the American Philological Association from 2007 to 2010. Damon is part of \"Bryn Mawr Classical Review\"'s editorial board.\n\nIn 1997 Damon published \"The Mask of the Parasite: A Pathology of Roman Patronage\" based on her doctoral thesis. Since 1997 Damon has focused on the translation of and commentaries on key classical texts including works by Augustus, Nepos, Tacitus, and Caesar. Damon was awarded a Loeb Classical Library Foundation Fellowship in 2013/14 to work on a new translation of Caesar's Civil War, which was published in 2016 replacing the 1914 version by A. G. Peskett. She is currently focusing on Pliny's \"Natural History\" and its reception and delivered a keynote address \"Plinian layers: On editing the reception of Pliny’s planetary theory\" in 2016 at the conference \"The Arts of Editing: Past, Present and Future\" (17–19 August 2016) at Stockholm University.\n\nDamon has been praised for her meticulous approach to texts. For example, Antonio Moreno Hernández commented on \"Studies on the Text of Caesar's Bellum civile\":This excellent edition makes serious contributions to the reconstruction of the text, and its careful and deep reading of the text of BC and the close study of its textural tradition is accompanied by an insightful commentary on troublesome passages that brings to light the enormous complexity of a text that has been transmitted in such a deficient way, offering suggestive new proposals that will encourage reflection on the reading and interpretation of the work of Caesar.In 2016/17 Damon was awarded the Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship in the Price Lab for Digital Humanities to work on the \"Bellum Alexandrinum\" project. This project is a pilot to test the new \"Digital Latin Library\" editing platform and has included input from high school to graduate students to serve as a precedent for collaborative editions of classical texts and an example of how one might include text editing in classicists' training.\n\n"}
{"id": "39776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39776", "title": "Denial-of-service attack", "text": "Denial-of-service attack\n\nIn computing, a denial-of-service attack (DoS attack) is a cyber-attack in which the perpetrator seeks to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its intended users by temporarily or indefinitely disrupting services of a host connected to the Internet. Denial of service is typically accomplished by flooding the targeted machine or resource with superfluous requests in an attempt to overload systems and prevent some or all legitimate requests from being fulfilled.\n\nIn a distributed denial-of-service attack (DDoS attack), the incoming traffic flooding the victim originates from many different sources. This effectively makes it impossible to stop the attack simply by blocking a single source.\n\nA DoS or DDoS attack is analogous to a group of people crowding the entry door of a shop, making it hard for legitimate customers to enter, disrupting trade.\n\nCriminal perpetrators of DoS attacks often target sites or services hosted on high-profile web servers such as banks or credit card payment gateways. Revenge, blackmail and activism can motivate these attacks.\n\nCourt testimony shows that the first demonstration of DoS attack was made by Khan C. Smith in 1997 during a DEF CON event, disrupting Internet access to the Las Vegas Strip for over an hour. The release of sample code during the event led to the online attack of Sprint, EarthLink, E-Trade, and other major corporations in the year to follow.\n\nOn March 5, 2018, an unnamed customer of the US-based service provider Arbor Networks fell victim to the largest DDoS in history, reaching a peak of about 1.7 terabits per second. The previous record was set a few days earlier, on March 1, 2018, GitHub was hit by an attack of 1.35 terabits per second.\n\nDenial-of-service attacks are characterized by an explicit attempt by attackers to prevent legitimate use of a service. There are two general forms of DoS attacks: those that crash services and those that flood services. The most serious attacks are distributed.\nA distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) is a large-scale DoS attack where the perpetrator uses more than one unique IP address, often thousands of them. Since the incoming traffic flooding the victim originates from many different sources, it is impossible to stop the attack simply by using ingress filtering. It also makes it very difficult to distinguish legitimate user traffic from attack traffic when spread across so many points of origin. As an alternative or augmentation of a DDoS, attacks may involve forging of IP sender addresses (IP address spoofing) further complicating identifying and defeating the attack.\n\nThe scale of DDoS attacks has continued to rise over recent years, by 2016 exceeding a terabit per second. Some common examples of DDoS attacks are fraggle, smurf, and SYN flooding.\n\nAn application layer DDoS attack (sometimes referred to as layer 7 DDoS attack) is a form of DDoS attack where attackers target application-layer processes. The attack over-exercises specific functions or features of a website with the intention to disable those functions or features. This application-layer attack is different from an entire network attack, and is often used against financial institutions to distract IT and security personnel from security breaches. In 2013, application-layer DDoS attacks represented 20% of all DDoS attacks. According to research by Akamai Technologies, there have been \"51 percent more application layer attacks\" from Q4 2013 to Q4 2014 and \"16 percent more\" from Q3 2014 over Q4 2014. In November 2017; Junade Ali, a Computer Scientist at Cloudflare noted that whilst network-level attacks continue to be of high capacity, they are occurring less frequently. Ali further notes that although network-level attacks are becoming less frequent, data from Cloudflare demonstrates that application-layer attacks are still showing no sign of slowing down.\n\nThe OSI model (ISO/IEC 7498-1) is a conceptual model that characterizes and standardizes the internal functions of a communication system by partitioning it into abstraction layers. The model is a product of the Open Systems Interconnection project at the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). The model groups similar communication functions into one of seven logical layers. A layer serves the layer above it and is served by the layer below it. For example, a layer that provides error-free communications across a network provides the communications path needed by applications above it, while it calls the next lower layer to send and receive packets that traverse that path.\n\nIn the OSI model, the definition of its application layer is narrower in scope than is often implemented. The OSI model defines the application layer as being the user interface. The OSI application layer is responsible for displaying data and images to the user in a human-recognizable format and to interface with the presentation layer below it. In an implementation, the application and presentation layers are frequently combined.\n\nAn application layer DDoS attack is done mainly for specific targeted purposes, including disrupting transactions and access to databases. It requires fewer resources than network layer attacks but often accompanies them. An attack is disguised to look like legitimate traffic, except it targets specific application packets. The attack on the application layer can disrupt services such as the retrieval of information or search function as well as web browser function, email services and photo applications. To be deemed a \"distributed\" denial of service attack, more than around 3–5 nodes on different networks should be used; using fewer nodes qualifies as a DoS attack but not a DDoS attack.\n\nAn advanced persistent DoS (APDoS) is more likely to be perpetrated by an advanced persistent threat (APT): attackers who are well-resourced, exceptionally skilled and have access to substantial commercial grade computer resources and capacity. APDoS attacks represent a clear and emerging threat needing specialised monitoring and incident response services and the defensive capabilities of specialised DDoS mitigation service providers.\n\nThis type of attack involves massive network layer DDoS attacks through to focused application layer (HTTP) floods, followed by repeated (at varying intervals) SQLi and XSS attacks. Typically, the perpetrators can simultaneously use from 2 to 5 attack vectors involving up to several tens of millions of requests per second, often accompanied by large SYN floods that can not only attack the victim but also any service provider implementing any sort of managed DDoS mitigation capability. These attacks can persist for several weeks. The longest continuous period noted so far lasted 38 days. This attack involved approximately 50+ petabits (50,000+ terabits) of malicious traffic.\n\nAttackers in this scenario may tactically switch between several targets to create a diversion to evade defensive DDoS countermeasures but all the while eventually concentrating the main thrust of the attack onto a single victim. In this scenario, attackers with continuous access to several very powerful network resources are capable of sustaining a prolonged campaign generating enormous levels of un-amplified DDoS traffic.\n\nAPDoS attacks are characterised by:\n\nSome vendors provide so-called \"booter\" or \"stresser\" services, which have simple web-based front ends, and accept payment over the web. Marketed and promoted as stress-testing tools, they can be used to perform unauthorized denial-of-service attacks, and allow technically unsophisticated attackers access to sophisticated attack tools without the need for the attacker to understand their use. Usually powered by a botnet, the traffic produced by a consumer stresser can range anywhere from 5-50 Gbit/s, which can, in most cases, deny the average home user internet access.\n\nThe United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) has identified symptoms of a denial-of-service attack to include:\n\nAdditional symptoms may include:\n\nIf the attack is conducted on a sufficiently large scale, entire geographical regions of Internet connectivity can be compromised without the attacker's knowledge or intent by incorrectly configured or flimsy network infrastructure equipment.\n\nA wide array of programs are used to launch DoS-attacks.\n\nIn cases such as MyDoom and Slowloris the tools are embedded in malware, and launch their attacks without the knowledge of the system owner. Stacheldraht is a classic example of a DDoS tool. It uses a layered structure where the attacker uses a client program to connect to handlers, which are compromised systems that issue commands to the zombie agents, which in turn facilitate the DDoS attack. Agents are compromised via the handlers by the attacker, using automated routines to exploit vulnerabilities in programs that accept remote connections running on the targeted remote hosts. Each handler can control up to a thousand agents.\n\nIn other cases a machine may become part of a DDoS attack with the owner's consent, for example, in Operation Payback, organized by the group Anonymous. The LOIC has typically been used in this way. Along with HOIC a wide variety of DDoS tools are available today, including paid and free versions, with different features available. There is an underground market for these in hacker related forums and IRC channels.\n\nUK's GCHQ has tools built for DDoS, named PREDATORS FACE and ROLLING THUNDER.\n\nVarious DoS-causing exploits such as buffer overflow can cause server-running software to get confused and fill the disk space or consume all available memory or CPU time.\n\nOther kinds of DoS rely primarily on brute force, flooding the target with an overwhelming flux of packets, oversaturating its connection bandwidth or depleting the target's system resources. Bandwidth-saturating floods rely on the attacker having higher bandwidth available than the victim; a common way of achieving this today is via distributed denial-of-service, employing a botnet. Another target of DDoS attacks may be to produce added costs for the application operator, when the latter uses resources based on cloud computing. In this case normally application used resources are tied to a needed Quality of Service level (e.g. responses should be less than 200 ms) and this rule is usually linked to automated software (e.g. Amazon CloudWatch) to raise more virtual resources from the provider in order to meet the defined QoS levels for the increased requests.The main incentive behind such attacks may be to drive the application owner to raise the elasticity levels in order to handle the increased application traffic, in order to cause financial losses or force them to become less competitive. Other floods may use specific packet types or connection requests to saturate finite resources by, for example, occupying the maximum number of open connections or filling the victim's disk space with logs.\n\nA \"banana attack\" is another particular type of DoS. It involves redirecting outgoing messages from the client back onto the client, preventing outside access, as well as flooding the client with the sent packets. A LAND attack is of this type.\n\nAn attacker with shell-level access to a victim's computer may slow it until it is unusable or crash it by using a fork bomb.\n\nA kind of application-level DoS attack is XDoS (or XML DoS) which can be controlled by modern web application firewalls (WAFs).\n\n\"Pulsing\" zombies are compromised computers that are directed to launch intermittent and short-lived floodings of victim websites with the intent of merely slowing it rather than crashing it. This type of attack, referred to as \"degradation-of-service\" rather than \"denial-of-service\", can be more difficult to detect than regular zombie invasions and can disrupt and hamper connection to websites for prolonged periods of time, potentially causing more disruption than concentrated floods. Exposure of degradation-of-service attacks is complicated further by the matter of discerning whether the server is really being attacked or under normal traffic loads.\n\nThe goal of DoS L2 (possibly DDoS) attack is to cause a launching of a defense mechanism which blocks the network segment from which the attack originated. In case of distributed attack or IP header modification (that depends on the kind of security behavior) it will fully block the attacked network from the Internet, but without system crash.\n\nA distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack occurs when multiple systems flood the bandwidth or resources of a targeted system, usually one or more web servers. Such an attack is often the result of multiple compromised systems (for example, a botnet) flooding the targeted system with traffic. A botnet is a network of zombie computers programmed to receive commands without the owners' knowledge. When a server is overloaded with connections, new connections can no longer be accepted. The major advantages to an attacker of using a distributed denial-of-service attack are that multiple machines can generate more attack traffic than one machine, multiple attack machines are harder to turn off than one attack machine, and that the behavior of each attack machine can be stealthier, making it harder to track and shut down. These attacker advantages cause challenges for defense mechanisms. For example, merely purchasing more incoming bandwidth than the current volume of the attack might not help, because the attacker might be able to simply add more attack machines. This, after all, will end up completely crashing a website for periods of time.\n\nMalware can carry DDoS attack mechanisms; one of the better-known examples of this was MyDoom. Its DoS mechanism was triggered on a specific date and time. This type of DDoS involved hardcoding the target IP address prior to release of the malware and no further interaction was necessary to launch the attack.\n\nA system may also be compromised with a trojan, allowing the attacker to download a zombie agent, or the trojan may contain one. Attackers can also break into systems using automated tools that exploit flaws in programs that listen for connections from remote hosts. This scenario primarily concerns systems acting as servers on the web. Stacheldraht is a classic example of a DDoS tool. It uses a layered structure where the attacker uses a client program to connect to handlers, which are compromised systems that issue commands to the zombie agents, which in turn facilitate the DDoS attack. Agents are compromised via the handlers by the attacker, using automated routines to exploit vulnerabilities in programs that accept remote connections running on the targeted remote hosts. Each handler can control up to a thousand agents. In some cases a machine may become part of a DDoS attack with the owner's consent, for example, in Operation Payback, organized by the group Anonymous. These attacks can use different types of internet packets such as: TCP, UDP, ICMP etc.\n\nThese collections of systems compromisers are known as botnets / rootservers. DDoS tools like Stacheldraht still use classic DoS attack methods centered on IP spoofing and amplification like smurf attacks and fraggle attacks (these are also known as bandwidth consumption attacks). SYN floods (also known as resource starvation attacks) may also be used. Newer tools can use DNS servers for DoS purposes. Unlike MyDoom's DDoS mechanism, botnets can be turned against any IP address. Script kiddies use them to deny the availability of well known websites to legitimate users. More sophisticated attackers use DDoS tools for the purposes of extortioneven against their business rivals.\n\nSimple attacks such as SYN floods may appear with a wide range of source IP addresses, giving the appearance of a well distributed DoS. These flood attacks do not require completion of the TCP three way handshake and attempt to exhaust the destination SYN queue or the server bandwidth. Because the source IP addresses can be trivially spoofed, an attack could come from a limited set of sources, or may even originate from a single host. Stack enhancements such as syn cookies may be effective mitigation against SYN queue flooding, however complete bandwidth exhaustion may require involvement.\n\nIf an attacker mounts an attack from a single host it would be classified as a DoS attack. In fact, any attack against availability would be classed as a denial-of-service attack. On the other hand, if an attacker uses many systems to simultaneously launch attacks against a remote host, this would be classified as a DDoS attack.\n\nIt has been reported that there are new attacks from internet of things which have been involved in denial of service attacks.\n\nIn one noted attack that was made peaked at around 20,000 requests per second which came from around 900 CCTV cameras.\nUK's GCHQ has tools built for DDoS, named PREDATORS FACE and ROLLING THUNDER.\n\nIn 2015, DDoS botnets such as DD4BC grew in prominence, taking aim at financial institutions. Cyber-extortionists typically begin with a low-level attack and a warning that a larger attack will be carried out if a ransom is not paid in Bitcoin. Security experts recommend targeted websites to not pay the ransom. The attackers tend to get into an extended extortion scheme once they recognize that the target is ready to pay.\n\nFirst discovered in 2009, the HTTP POST attack sends a complete, legitimate HTTP POST header, which includes a 'Content-Length' field to specify the size of the message body to follow. However, the attacker then proceeds to send the actual message body at an extremely slow rate (e.g. 1 byte/110 seconds). Due to the entire message being correct and complete, the target server will attempt to obey the 'Content-Length' field in the header, and wait for the entire body of the message to be transmitted, which can take a very long time. The attacker establishes hundreds or even thousands of such connections, until all resources for incoming connections on the server (the victim) are used up, hence making any further (including legitimate) connections impossible until all data has been sent. It is notable that unlike many other (D)DoS attacks, which try to subdue the server by overloading its network or CPU, a HTTP POST attack targets the \"logical\" resources of the victim, which means the victim would still have enough network bandwidth and processing power to operate. Further combined with the fact that Apache will, by default, accept requests up to 2GB in size, this attack can be particularly powerful. HTTP POST attacks are difficult to differentiate from legitimate connections, and are therefore able to bypass some protection systems. OWASP, an open source web application security project, has released a testing tool to test the security of servers against this type of attacks.\n\nA smurf attack relies on misconfigured network devices that allow packets to be sent to all computer hosts on a particular network via the broadcast address of the network, rather than a specific machine. The attacker will send large numbers of IP packets with the source address faked to appear to be the address of the victim. Most devices on a network will, by default, respond to this by sending a reply to the source IP address. If the number of machines on the network that receive and respond to these packets is very large, the victim's computer will be flooded with traffic. This overloads the victim computer and can even make it unusable during such attack.\n\nPing flood is based on sending the victim an overwhelming number of ping packets, usually using the \"ping\" command from Unix-like hosts (the -t flag on Windows systems is much less capable of overwhelming a target, also the -l (size) flag does not allow sent packet size greater than 65500 in Windows). It is very simple to launch, the primary requirement being access to greater bandwidth than the victim.\n\nPing of death is based on sending the victim a malformed ping packet, which will lead to a system crash on a vulnerable system.\n\nThe BlackNurse attack is an example of an attack taking advantage of the required Destination Port Unreachable ICMP packets.\n\nA Nuke is an old denial-of-service attack against computer networks consisting of fragmented or otherwise invalid ICMP packets sent to the target, achieved by using a modified ping utility to repeatedly send this corrupt data, thus slowing down the affected computer until it comes to a complete stop.\n\nA specific example of a nuke attack that gained some prominence is the WinNuke, which exploited the vulnerability in the NetBIOS handler in Windows 95. A string of out-of-band data was sent to TCP port 139 of the victim's machine, causing it to lock up and display a Blue Screen of Death (BSOD).\n\nAttackers have found a way to exploit a number of bugs in peer-to-peer servers to initiate DDoS attacks. The most aggressive of these peer-to-peer-DDoS attacks exploits DC++. With peer-to-peer there is no botnet and the attacker does not have to communicate with the clients it subverts. Instead, the attacker acts as a \"puppet master,\" instructing clients of large peer-to-peer file sharing hubs to disconnect from their peer-to-peer network and to connect to the victim's website instead.\n\nPermanent denial-of-service (PDoS), also known loosely as phlashing, is an attack that damages a system so badly that it requires replacement or reinstallation of hardware. Unlike the distributed denial-of-service attack, a PDoS attack exploits security flaws which allow remote administration on the management interfaces of the victim's hardware, such as routers, printers, or other networking hardware. The attacker uses these vulnerabilities to replace a device's firmware with a modified, corrupt, or defective firmware image—a process which when done legitimately is known as \"flashing.\" This therefore \"bricks\" the device, rendering it unusable for its original purpose until it can be repaired or replaced.\n\nThe PDoS is a pure hardware targeted attack which can be much faster and requires fewer resources than using a botnet or a root/vserver in a DDoS attack. Because of these features, and the potential and high probability of security exploits on Network Enabled Embedded Devices (NEEDs), this technique has come to the attention of numerous hacking communities.\n\nPhlashDance is a tool created by Rich Smith (an employee of Hewlett-Packard's Systems Security Lab) used to detect and demonstrate PDoS vulnerabilities at the 2008 EUSecWest Applied Security Conference in London.\n\nA distributed denial-of-service attack may involve sending forged requests of some type to a very large number of computers that will reply to the requests. Using Internet Protocol address spoofing, the source address is set to that of the targeted victim, which means all the replies will go to (and flood) the target. (This reflected attack form is sometimes called a \"DRDOS\".)\n\nICMP Echo Request attacks (Smurf attack) can be considered one form of reflected attack, as the flooding host(s) send Echo Requests to the broadcast addresses of mis-configured networks, thereby enticing hosts to send Echo Reply packets to the victim. Some early DDoS programs implemented a distributed form of this attack.\n\nAmplification attacks are used to magnify the bandwidth that is sent to a victim. This is typically done through publicly accessible DNS servers that are used to cause congestion on the target system using DNS response traffic. Many services can be exploited to act as reflectors, some harder to block than others. US-CERT have observed that different services implies in different amplification factors, as tabulated below:\n\nDNS amplification attacks involve a new mechanism that increased the amplification effect, using a much larger list of DNS servers than seen earlier. The process typically involves an attacker sending a DNS name look up request to a public DNS server, spoofing the source IP address of the targeted victim. The attacker tries to request as much information as possible, thus amplifying the DNS response that is sent to the targeted victim. Since the size of the request is significantly smaller than the response, the attacker is easily able to increase the amount of traffic directed at the target. SNMP and NTP can also be exploited as reflector in an amplification attack.\n\nAn example of an amplified DDoS attack through the Network Time Protocol (NTP) is through a command called monlist, which sends the details of the last 600 hosts that have requested the time from the NTP server back to the requester. A small request to this time server can be sent using a spoofed source IP address of some victim, which results in a response 556.9 times the size of the request being sent to the victim. This becomes amplified when using botnets that all send requests with the same spoofed IP source, which will result a massive amount of data being sent back to the victim.\n\nIt is very difficult to defend against these types of attacks because the response data is coming from legitimate servers. These attack requests are also sent through UDP, which does not require a connection to the server. This means that the source IP is not verified when a request is received by the server. In order to bring awareness of these vulnerabilities, campaigns have been started that are dedicated to finding amplification vectors which has led to people fixing their resolvers or having the resolvers shut down completely.\n\nThis attack works by using a worm to infect hundreds of thousands of IoT devices across the country or even the world. The worm propagates through networks and systems taking control of poorly protected IoT devices such as, thermostats, Wi-Fi enabled clocks, washing machines and many more. These newly enslaved devices are called slaves or bots. Once the hacker has acquired his or her desired number of bots they instruct the bots to try and contact an ISP. In October of 2016, a Mirai botnet attacked Dyn which is the ISP for sites such as Twitter, Netflix, etc. . As soon as this occurred, these websites were all unreachable for several hours costing each company thousands of dollars. The thing about this type of attack is when the device becomes enslaved usually the user will not be able to tell . The device itself is not the one that the attacker is after they just need to use it to be a part of a bigger attack . This type of attack is not physically damaging, but it will certainly be costly for any large internet companies that get attacked.\n\nRUDY attack targets web applications by starvation of available sessions on the web server. Much like Slowloris, RUDY keeps sessions at halt using never-ending POST transmissions and sending an arbitrarily large content-length header value.\n\nThe shrew attack is a denial-of-service attack on the Transmission Control Protocol. It uses short synchronized bursts of traffic to disrupt TCP connections on the same link, by exploiting a weakness in TCP's re-transmission timeout mechanism.\n\nA slow read attack sends legitimate application layer requests, but reads responses very slowly, thus trying to exhaust the server's connection pool. It is achieved by advertising a very small number for the TCP Receive Window size, and at the same time emptying clients' TCP receive buffer slowly, which causes a very low data flow rate.\n\nA sophisticated low-bandwidth DDoS attack is a form of DoS that uses less traffic and increases their effectiveness by aiming at a weak point in the victim's system design, i.e., the attacker sends traffic consisting of complicated requests to the system. Essentially, a sophisticated DDoS attack is lower in cost due to its use of less traffic, is smaller in size making it more difficult to identify, and it has the ability to hurt systems which are protected by flow control mechanisms.\n\nA SYN flood occurs when a host sends a flood of TCP/SYN packets, often with a forged sender address. Each of these packets are handled like a connection request, causing the server to spawn a half-open connection, by sending back a TCP/SYN-ACK packet (Acknowledge), and waiting for a packet in response from the sender address (response to the ACK Packet). However, because the sender address is forged, the response never comes. These half-open connections saturate the number of available connections the server can make, keeping it from responding to legitimate requests until after the attack ends.\n\nA teardrop attack involves sending mangled IP fragments with overlapping, oversized payloads to the target machine. This can crash various operating systems because of a bug in their TCP/IP fragmentation re-assembly code. Windows 3.1x, Windows 95 and Windows NT operating systems, as well as versions of Linux prior to versions 2.0.32 and 2.1.63 are vulnerable to this attack.\n\n(Although in September 2009, a vulnerability in Windows Vista was referred to as a \"teardrop attack\", this targeted SMB2 which is a higher layer than the TCP packets that teardrop used).\n\nOne of the fields in an IP header is the “fragment offset” field, indicating the starting position, or offset, of the data contained in a fragmented packet relative to the data in the original packet. If the sum of the offset and size of one fragmented packet differs from that of the next fragmented packet, the packets overlap. When this happens, a server vulnerable to teardrop attacks is unable to reassemble the packets - resulting in a denial-of-service condition.\n\nVoice over IP has made abusive origination of large numbers of telephone voice calls inexpensive and readily automated while permitting call origins to be misrepresented through caller ID spoofing.\n\nAccording to the US Federal Bureau of Investigation, telephony denial-of-service (TDoS) has appeared as part of various fraudulent schemes:\n\nTelephony denial-of-service can exist even without Internet telephony. In the 2002 New Hampshire Senate election phone jamming scandal, telemarketers were used to flood political opponents with spurious calls to jam phone banks on election day. Widespread publication of a number can also flood it with enough calls to render it unusable, as happened by accident in 1981 with multiple +1-area code-867-5309 subscribers inundated by hundreds of misdialed calls daily in response to the song 867-5309/Jenny.\n\nTDoS differs from other telephone harassment (such as prank calls and obscene phone calls) by the number of calls originated; by occupying lines continuously with repeated automated calls, the victim is prevented from making or receiving both routine and emergency telephone calls.\n\nRelated exploits include SMS flooding attacks and black fax or fax loop transmission.\n\nThis attack uses an existing vulnerability in Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) protocol to get around a considerable amount of the present defense methods and flood a target's network and servers. The attack is based on a DNS amplification technique, but the attack mechanism is a UPnP router which forwards requests from one outer source to another disregarding UPnP behavior rules. Using the UPnP router returns the data on an unexpected UDP port from a bogus IP address, making it more hard to take simple action to shut down the traffic flood. According to the Imperva researchers, the most effective way to stop this attack is for companies to lock down UPnP routers.\n\nDefensive responses to denial-of-service attacks typically involve the use of a combination of attack detection, traffic classification and response tools, aiming to block traffic that they identify as illegitimate and allow traffic that they identify as legitimate. A list of prevention and response tools is provided below:\n\nApplication front-end hardware is intelligent hardware placed on the network before traffic reaches the servers. It can be used on networks in conjunction with routers and switches. Application front end hardware analyzes data packets as they enter the system, and then identifies them as priority, regular, or dangerous. There are more than 25 bandwidth management vendors.\n\nApproaches to DDoS attacks against cloud-based applications may be based on an application layer analysis, indicating whether incoming bulk traffic is legitimate and thus triggering elasticity decisions without the economical implications of a DDoS attack. These approaches mainly rely on an identified path of value inside the application and monitor the progress of requests on this path, through markers called Key Completion Indicators.\n\nIn essence, these technique are statistical methods of assessing the behavior of incoming requests to detect if something unusual or abnormal is going on.\n\nAn analogy is to a bricks-and-mortar department store where customers spend, on average, a known percentage of their time on different activities such as picking up items and examining them, putting them back, filling a basket, waiting to pay, paying, and leaving. These high-level activities correspond to the Key Completion Indicators in a service or site, and once normal behavior is determined, abnormal behavior can be identified. If a mob of customers arrived in store and spent all their time picking up items and putting them back, but never made any purchases, this could be flagged as unusual behavior.\n\nThe department store can attempt to adjust to periods of high activity by bringing in a reserve of employees at short notice. But if it did this routinely, were a mob to start showing up but never buying anything, this could ruin the store with the extra employee costs. Soon the store would identify the mob activity and scale back the number of employees, recognising that the mob provides no profit and should not be served. While this may make it more difficult for legitimate customers to get served during the mob's presence, it saves the store from total ruin.\n\nIn the case of elastic cloud services where a huge and abnormal additional workload may incur significant charges from the cloud service provider, this technique can be used to scale back or even stop the expansion of server availability to protect from economic loss.\n\nWith blackhole routing, all the traffic to the attacked DNS or IP address is sent to a \"black hole\" (null interface or a non-existent server). To be more efficient and avoid affecting network connectivity, it can be managed by the ISP.\n\nA DNS sinkhole routes traffic to a valid IP address which analyzes traffic and rejects bad packets. Sinkholing is not efficient for most severe attacks.\n\nIntrusion prevention systems (IPS) are effective if the attacks have signatures associated with them. However, the trend among the attacks is to have legitimate content but bad intent. Intrusion-prevention systems which work on content recognition cannot block behavior-based DoS attacks.\n\nAn ASIC based IPS may detect and block denial-of-service attacks because they have the processing power and the granularity to analyze the attacks and act like a circuit breaker in an automated way.\n\nA rate-based IPS (RBIPS) must analyze traffic granularly and continuously monitor the traffic pattern and determine if there is traffic anomaly. It must let the legitimate traffic flow while blocking the DoS attack traffic.\n\nMore focused on the problem than IPS, a DoS defense system (DDS) can block connection-based DoS attacks and those with legitimate content but bad intent. A DDS can also address both protocol attacks (such as teardrop and ping of death) and rate-based attacks (such as ICMP floods and SYN floods).\n\nIn the case of a simple attack, a firewall could have a simple rule added to deny all incoming traffic from the attackers, based on protocols, ports or the originating IP addresses.\n\nMore complex attacks will however be hard to block with simple rules: for example, if there is an ongoing attack on port 80 (web service), it is not possible to drop all incoming traffic on this port because doing so will prevent the server from serving legitimate traffic. Additionally, firewalls may be too deep in the network hierarchy, with routers being adversely affected before the traffic gets to the firewall. Also, many security tools still do not support IPv6 or may not be configured properly, so the firewalls often might get bypassed during the attacks.\n\nSimilar to switches, routers have some rate-limiting and ACL capability. They, too, are manually set. Most routers can be easily overwhelmed under a DoS attack. Cisco IOS has optional features that can reduce the impact of flooding.\n\nMost switches have some rate-limiting and ACL capability. Some switches provide automatic and/or system-wide rate limiting, traffic shaping, delayed binding (TCP splicing), deep packet inspection and Bogon filtering (bogus IP filtering) to detect and remediate DoS attacks through automatic rate filtering and WAN Link failover and balancing.\n\nThese schemes will work as long as the DoS attacks can be prevented by using them. For example, SYN flood can be prevented using delayed binding or TCP splicing. Similarly content based DoS may be prevented using deep packet inspection. Attacks originating from dark addresses or going to dark addresses can be prevented using bogon filtering. Automatic rate filtering can work as long as set rate-thresholds have been set correctly. Wan-link failover will work as long as both links have DoS/DDoS prevention mechanism.\n\nAll traffic is passed through a \"cleaning center\" or a \"scrubbing center\" via various methods such as proxies, tunnels, digital cross connects, or even direct circuits, which separates \"bad\" traffic (DDoS and also other common internet attacks) and only sends good traffic beyond to the server. The provider needs central connectivity to the Internet to manage this kind of service unless they happen to be located within the same facility as the \"cleaning center\" or \"scrubbing center\". DDoS attacks can overwhelm any type of hardware firewall, and passing malicious traffic through large and mature networks becomes more and more effective and economically sustainable against DDoS.\n\nExamples of providers of this service:\nAn unintentional denial-of-service can occur when a system ends up denied, not due to a deliberate attack by a single individual or group of individuals, but simply due to a sudden enormous spike in popularity. This can happen when an extremely popular website posts a prominent link to a second, less well-prepared site, for example, as part of a news story. The result is that a significant proportion of the primary site's regular userspotentially hundreds of thousands of peopleclick that link in the space of a few hours, having the same effect on the target website as a DDoS attack. A VIPDoS is the same, but specifically when the link was posted by a celebrity.\n\nWhen Michael Jackson died in 2009, websites such as Google and Twitter slowed down or even crashed. Many sites' servers thought the requests were from a virus or spyware trying to cause a denial-of-service attack, warning users that their queries looked like \"automated requests from a computer virus or spyware application\".\n\nNews sites and link sitessites whose primary function is to provide links to interesting content elsewhere on the Internetare most likely to cause this phenomenon. The canonical example is the Slashdot effect when receiving traffic from Slashdot. It is also known as \"the Reddit hug of death\" and \"the Digg effect\".\n\nRouters have also been known to create unintentional DoS attacks, as both D-Link and Netgear routers have overloaded NTP servers by flooding NTP servers without respecting the restrictions of client types or geographical limitations.\n\nSimilar unintentional denials-of-service can also occur via other media, e.g. when a URL is mentioned on television. If a server is being indexed by Google or another search engine during peak periods of activity, or does not have a lot of available bandwidth while being indexed, it can also experience the effects of a DoS attack.\n\nLegal action has been taken in at least one such case. In 2006, Universal Tube & Rollform Equipment Corporation sued YouTube: massive numbers of would-be youtube.com users accidentally typed the tube company's URL, utube.com. As a result, the tube company ended up having to spend large amounts of money on upgrading their bandwidth. The company appears to have taken advantage of the situation, with utube.com now containing ads for advertisement revenue.\n\nIn March 2014, after Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 went missing, DigitalGlobe launched a crowdsourcing service on which users could help search for the missing jet in satellite images. The response overwhelmed the company's servers.\n\nAn unintentional denial-of-service may also result from a prescheduled event created by the website itself, as was the case of the Census in Australia in 2016. This could be caused when a server provides some service at a specific time. This might be a university website setting the grades to be available where it will result in many more login requests at that time than any other.\n\nIn computer network security, backscatter is a side-effect of a spoofed denial-of-service attack. In this kind of attack, the attacker spoofs (or forges) the source address in IP packets sent to the victim. In general, the victim machine cannot distinguish between the spoofed packets and legitimate packets, so the victim responds to the spoofed packets as it normally would. These response packets are known as backscatter.\n\nIf the attacker is spoofing source addresses randomly, the backscatter response packets from the victim will be sent back to random destinations. This effect can be used by network telescopes as indirect evidence of such attacks.\n\nThe term \"backscatter analysis\" refers to observing backscatter packets arriving at a statistically significant portion of the IP address space to determine characteristics of DoS attacks and victims.\n\nMany jurisdictions have laws under which denial-of-service attacks are illegal.\n\n\nOn January 7, 2013, Anonymous posted a petition on the whitehouse.gov site asking that DDoS be recognized as a legal form of protest similar to the Occupy protests, the claim being that the similarity in purpose of both are same.\n\n"}
{"id": "26110249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26110249", "title": "English words first attested in Chaucer", "text": "English words first attested in Chaucer\n\nEnglish words first attested in Chaucer, or special manuscript words of Chaucer, are a set of about two thousand English words that Geoffrey Chaucer is credited as being the first use found today in existing manuscripts. This does not necessarily mean that he was the person to introduce these words into English, but that the earliest extant uses of these words are found in Chaucerian manuscripts. Many of the words were already in everyday speech in 14th-century England (especially London). The claim is that these words are found for the first time in written manuscripts where he introduced them in one of his extensive works from 1374 to 1400 as the first author to use these particular words. Many of Chaucer's special manuscript words from the 14th century are used today:\n\"absent, accident, add, agree, bagpipe, border, box, cinnamon, desk, digestion, dishonest, examination, finally, flute, funeral, galaxy, horizon, infect, ingot, latitude, laxative, miscarry, nod, obscure, observe, outrageous, perpendicular, Persian, princess, resolve, rumour, scissors, session, snort, superstitious, theatre, trench, universe, utility, vacation, Valentine, veal, village, vulgar, wallet, and wildness.\"\nChristopher Cannon, in \"The Making of Chaucer's English\", gives a complete detailed work on the etymology of Chaucer's special manuscript words and references the Middle English Dictionary (\"MED\") definitions and etymology of each of these words. He points out that the \"MED\" does not give details on the etymology of many of Chaucer's derived words, including many compounds, some participial adjectives, and most gerunds. Cannon also points out that, while the Oxford English Dictionary lists Chaucer as the \"first cited author\" of these words, it also is mostly silent on the etymologies of these particular derived words. Cannon furnishes a complete list of Chaucer's special manuscript words with their etymology.\n\nHistorian Albert Baugh points out that some of Chaucer's aureate words came from Latin or French origin. Some of Chaucer's aureate words like \"laureate, mediation,\" and \"oriental\" eventually became a part of everyday English. Baugh points out that the innovations of word development into common speech and everyday usage, such as these Chaucer words, is of considerable interest in the history of style.\n\nBelow is a complete list of the 1977 Chaucer's special manuscript words that are first found in the existing manuscripts below as listed in the Oxford English Dictionary as being the \"first cited author.\" Some now have different spellings and others are given the \"root\" word definition. Some of these words are now dated or obsolete. These manuscript words first found written in Chaucer's work, from \"The Canterbury Tales\" and other of his publications as shown below, were published in the 14th century.\n\n\"The Canterbury Tales\" is a collection of tales written sometime after 1373, with 'sondry folk' that resemble Boccaccio's stories of \"The Decameron\" of fleeing nobles.\n\nThe \"General Prologue\" introduces the tellers of the tales, with much wry and subtle social commentary.\n\n\" acate, affile, alight, ambler, army, arrive, bagpipe, begster, borax, bourdon, bracer, bream, cape, ceruse, chape, clasp, cordial, dagger, debtless, digestible, dormant, Flandrish, foot-mantle, foster, gaud, hostelry, householder, in, jingle, knob, licentiate, line, luce, magic, magician, marrowbone, mercenary, miscarry, moral, pardoner, parvis, patent, perse, session, significavit, stew, wallet, whistling \"\n\n\"The Knight's Tale\" introduces many typical aspects of knighthood such as courtly love and moral issues.\n\n\"alan, attourne, breastplate, broid, buckle, cerrial, chaas, Circe, citrine, clottered, collared, execute, expel, expulsive, feminie, fluttery, funeral, gigge, holm, howl, huntress, intellect, kemp, lacing, laxative, Lucina, melancholic, menacing, mishap, mortal, mover, murmur, murmuring, muzzle, naker, narcotic, nymph, obsequy, obstacle, opie, opposite, oyez, parament, party, perturb, pharmacy, plain, portraiture, possibility, princess, progression, refuge, renting, returning, save, saving, serie, shouting, smiler, strangle, strangling, tester, thoroughfare, turret, vanishing, variation, vital, vomit, whippletree, winged\"\n\nThe Miller's Tale is told by a drunken miller to \"quite\" (requite) The Knight's Tale. The word \"quite\" here means to make repayment for a service - telling stories.\n\n\" almagest, bragget, chant, cinnamon, forge, haunch-bone, interrogation, keek, kneading, kneading-trough, lab, mislie, out, pearl, Pilate, piping, shelf, slumber, swive, tub, very, vere, watchet \"\n\nThe Reeve's Tale is about two clerks tricking a miller. This tale is possibly based on Boccaccio's sixth story in \"The Decameron.\"\n\n\" bodkin, bolt, chime, derere, easement, grass time, halfway, jossa, messuage, mullock, popper, quack, sack, Sheffield, thick and thin, varnish \"\n\nThe Cook's Tale is a tale of an apprentice named Perkins who is fond of drinking and dancing. He ultimately is released from his master and moves in with a friend. This friend's wife is a prostitute. The story becomes more 'seedy', continuing the downward trend of the preceding tales.\n\"bribe, convertible, galliard, Harry, Hodge,\"\n\"louke, prenticehood\"\n\nThe Man of Law's Tale is a story about a Christian princess named Constance. She is to marry a Syrian Sultan on condition that he convert to Christianity. His mother gets involved and sets her adrift at sea.\n\n\" constabless, crone, dilatation, erect, femininity, feminity, man of law, mortally, motive, muse, peace, seriously, victorious, wrack \"\n\nThe Wife of Bath's Tale is a tale about marriage. Scholars have associated this story as one of the so-called \"marriage group\" of Chaucer tales.\n\n\" annex, ascendant, ba, bum, bumble, caterwaul, chose, disfigure, Ecclesiast, inclination, lure, Martian, peace, preamble, preambulation, resemblance, reveller, sip, spaniel, squire, stubborn, taur, vacation\"\n\nThe Friar's Tale is a satirical attack on the profession of summoner.\n\n\" approver, bribe, bribery, determinate, flattering, foal, rebeck \"\n\nThe Summoner's Tale is a tale in defense of the satirical attack by the Friar.\n\n\" acceptable, chirt, dagon, demoniac, demonstrative, Dives, equally, pismire, reverberation, spence, swarm, tip, trip \"\n\nThe Clerk's Tale is the story of Griselda, a young woman whose husband tests her loyalty.\n\n\" amble, archwife, Chichevache, constant, dishonest, frowning, gaze, laureate, marquisess, mazedness, proem \"\n\nThe Merchant's Tale reflects Boccaccio's \"Decameron\" seventh day in his ninth tale. Chaucer's tale is a sexually explicit story.\n\n\" a-noon, arc, bedstraw, brotelness, court-man,\ncrake, hippocras, houndfish, ordinate, preen,\nPriapus, procreation, skink, sole, struggle,\nsuperlative, veal, vernage, visage \"\n\nThe Squire's Tale is a tale of the Squire who is the Knight's son. The tale is an epic romance about a novice warrior and lover with more enthusiasm than experience. It is quite explicit and descriptive.\n\n\" albe, digestion, exaltation, feastly, heronsew, Pegasus, peregrine, plumage, poleyn, prolixity, prospection, prospective, resound, serve, Tartar, Tatar, trench, trill, trill\"\n\nThe Franklin's Tale focuses on issues of providence, truth, and generosity. A franklin was a medieval landowner.\n\n\" alnath, Armorica, arrayed, begged, begeth, collect, considering, declination, desk, equation, expanse, falconer, faring, Nowell, opposition, Parnassus, proportional, rigour, superstitious \"\n\nThe Physician's Tale is a domestic drama about the relationship between a daughter and her father.\n\n\" award, definitive, notable, vicar general \"\n\nThe Pardoner's Tale is a tale in the form of a moral example.\n\n\" bet, cinque, cinq, clink, corny, corpus, domination, envelop, fen, Galianes, policy, rioter, saffron, sane, village \"\n\nThe Shipman's Tale is similar to some of Boccaccio's stories in his Decameron and tells the story of a stingy merchant, his greedy wife and her lover.\n\n\" creance, porteous, score \"\n\n\"The Prioress's Tale\" story is of a child martyr killed by Jews.\n\n\" outcry, sold \"\n\n\"Tale of Sir Topas\" is a self-portrait of Chaucer in an unflattering and humble manner. He presents himself as a reserved awkward person.\n\n\" amble, piercing, poppet\"\n\"The Tale of Melibee\" is an intentionally boring tale.\n\n\" accidental, accomplish, annoyful, anoyful, arbitration, blameful, brigue, chincher, chinchery, commit, counterwait, damnably, desiring, edifice, especial, estable, examination, examining, formal, garnison, hotchpotch, information, mishappy, persevere, pertinent, retain, withholding \"\n\nThe Monk's Tale is a collection of seventeen short stories on the theme of tragedy. These are of Lucifer, Adam, Samson, Hercules, Nebuchadnezzar, Belshazzar, Zenobia, Pedro of Castile, Peter I of Cyprus, Bernabò Visconti, Ugolino of Pisa, Nero, Holofernes, Antiochus, Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar and Croesus. The Monk's Tale \"De Casibus Virorum Illustrium\" of these illustrious men is modeled after Boccaccio's \"De Casibus Virorum Illustrium\" of illustrious men.\n\n\" afear, annunciate, appurtenant, armless, centaur, Cerberus, clubbed, consecrate, conspiracy, contributary, cursedly, customance, custumance, hexameter, humblehede, importable, leonine, lim-rod, misery, misgovernance, monster, morality, Occident, orient, officer, Persian, pompous, precept, proverb, Septentrion, size, sperm \"\n\n\"The Nun's Priest's Tale of the Cock and the Hen, Chanticleer and Partlet\" poem is a vigorous and comical beast fable and mock epic.\n\n\" aha, apoplexy, catapuce, centaury, cholera, chuck, clinking, cottage, digestive, embattled, fortunate, fumitory, herb Ive, jade, jet, laureole, poop, reverse, tame, tiptoe \"\n\nThe Second Nun's Tale tells the story of Saint Cecilia. \n\" chasteness, eternal, noble, oppose, oppress, outer, preface, prefect, proceed, rote, soul, trine \"\n\nThe Canon's Yeoman's Tale is an attack on alchemists.\n\n\" ablution, amalgam, ammoniac, argol, arsenic, blunder, bole, calcination, calcining, cered, chalk-stone, citrination, clergial, coagulate, corrosive, crude, cucurbit, elixir, fermentation, fusible, gris, hayne, hazelwood, induration, ingot, introduction, lamp, luna, lunary, magnesia, malleable, mollification, orpiment, pellitory, porphyry, proffered, prowl, rap, rehearsal, relent, rosary, sal, sluttish, sol, sublime, sublimed, tartar, test, vitriol \"\n\nThe Manciple's Tale is a story of a purchasing agent for a law court telling a fable about Phoebus Apollo and his pet crow.\n\n\" affect, bottle, cock, nod, palled, python, rackleness, textual, titleless \"\n\nThe Book of the Duchess is a poem on the death of Blanche, Duchess of Lancaster and the first wife of John of Gaunt.\n\n\" aside, bagge, bear \"\nThe Parson's Tale is a prose treatise on virtuous living.\n\n\" annoyance, appertain, ardour, ardor, arrogant, barring, bending, castle, closure, clotheless, consideration, contract, contumacy, create, curiousness, cutted, dedicate, departed, dishonesty, durable, elation, embracing, emprise, eschew, furring, gabber, hernia, homicide, homily, hostler, humiliation, impudent, manslaughter, material, mistrest, mortification, mystery, natural law, nigromancian, observe, ordure, ours, paling, parting, pax, perdurable, performing, platly, pounced, pouncing, raffle, replenish, retraction, slumbery, somnolence, springer, sticking, strangeness, sustenant, talker, thunderclap, total, trey, uncharitably \"\n\nThe Parliament of Fowls is a love poem associated with Valentine's Day. Many claim Chaucer is the mythmaker of the concept as we know it today.\n\n\" abstinent, bedside, blossomed, cackling, Cupid, disfigurate, dishevel, disobeisant, entitle, facund, formel, formal, horologe, messagery, mirthless, tercel, tiercel, tercelet, tiercelet, uncommitted, untressed, valence, Valentine, west \"\n\nThe Romaunt of the Rose is an allegorical dream, in which the narrator receives advice from the god of love on gaining his lady's favor, her love being symbolized by a rose.\n\n\" absent, communably, forwelk, fresh, fur, galantine, guerdon, habit, householding, jacounce, jagounce, jargon, jocund, lambskin, lightsome, lozenge, mansuete, masonry, mavis, medlar, mendicity, mendience, miscoveting, misway, mourning black, muid, nock, non-certain, obscure, overgilt, outwine, outstretch, outsling, palasin, papelardy, par coeur, parochial, patter, praise, prill, prime temps, Proteus, quail-pipe, racine, ravisable, recreandise, refraining, reft, resemblable, return, reverie, ribanding, rideled, riverside, roin, roinous, rose-leaf, sailour, Sarsenish, satin, savorous, scutcheon, seemlihead, shutting, slitter, smallish, snort, squirrel, suckeny, tassel, terin, thick-set, thread, timbester, tissue, tress, tretis, villainsly, volage, waterside, well-arrayed, well begone, well beseen, well-fed, wyndre \"\n\nThe House of Fame is a love poem based on works by Ovid and Virgil. The allegorical poem consists of a dream that journeys to two temples, \"The House of Fame\" and \"The House of Rumour\" which are various aspects of truth and falsehood.\n\n\" accustomance, check, act, agreeable, airish, appearance, arrivage, arrival, assail, babery, blaze, burned, cadence, casually, celestial, clarion, congealed, conservative, corbet, cornemuse, covercle, crowding, dear-bought, desesperat, dissimulation, doucet, dowset, ducat, duration, encumbrous, existence, feminine, fouldre, fumigation, galaxy, gig, greenish, harmony, Hebraic, herald, herd-groom, herewithal, humble, inclined, inclining, intermeddle, lee, lilting, masty, Milky Way, minstrelly, misgovernment, ray, renovelance, rumble, scissors, signal, spring, stellify, sorceress, sweynt, syllable, tewel, tuel, tinned, unshut, upper \"\n\nBoece is Chaucer's work derived from \"The Consolation of Philosophy\", a Latin work originally written by the Roman Christian philosopher Boethius around A.D. 524.\n\n\" abashing, accordable, add, address, adjection, adjoust, adjudge, administer, admonishing, admonition, agreeability, agreeably, albeit, alien, all-utterly, amenuse, amenusing, amoved, annoying, annoyously, anointed, arbitry, Arcturus, ardent, armourer, asperness, assigned, astoning, attaste, attemper, attemperance, attention, auster, autumn, awaiter, beholder, bespot, betiding, biting, blandishing, blissfulness, border, byname, Caurus, cavern, celebrable, centre, center, coemption, coetern, commonality, commove, complish, compotent, compound, comprend, compress, conject, conjoin, conjunction, conjuration, consequent, conservation, consular, contagious, continuation, contrary, convenient, corollary, corrige, Corybant, credible, declaring, decreet, defeat, definish, delicate, delie, delye, deluge, demonstration, despoiling, destinable, destinal, differing, disarm, discording, discourse, disincrease, disordinance, dispensation, dispense, dissolve, distempre, distrait, divide, divination, division, dull, durability, during, eager, echinus, egality,\"\n\n\"empoisoning, emprent, enbaissing, enchafe, enchantress, encharge, endamage, endark, enduring, enhance, enlace, ensampler, entach, entech, entalent, environing, eschaufe, establish, estimation, eternity, everyday, eve-star, evidently, exceed, exempt, exerce, exercitation, exiling, fellness, fellowship, felonous, festivally, fleeing, flitting, fluttering, foleye, forline, formly, fortuit, fortunel, fortunous, frounce, furthest, gaping, gastness, geometrian, ginner, gizzard, glaring, glow, governail, guerdon, guideress, habitacule, habitation, harmfully, henter, Hesperus, hider, honeyed, honied, hustlement, hydra, ignorant, imaginable, immovability, immovable, impair, imperial, impetre, imply, imposition, imprint, inconvenient, indifferently, indignation, inestimable, infect, infinity, infirm, inhabit, interchanging, intercommuning, interlace, interminable, jangling, jaw, jointure, knower, lash, leecher, lost, luxure, manifest, Marmaric, marvelling, marveling, meanly, misdrawing, misknowing, miswandering, movability, mowing, mutable, necess, nilling, orphelin, overlight, over-swift, overthrowing, overwhelve, perdurability, plungy, poetical, porism, portionable, presentary, previdence, pronouncer, proportionable, purveyable, reasoning, reddy, redoubt, reduce, remount, rending, replenished, replication, requirable, resist, resolve, resounding, resounding, rhetorian, roil, roundness, rower, rumour, sarplier, scaping, scorkle, semblable, senatory, sensibility, sensible, shadowy, showing, similitude, simplicity, singler, Sirius, skilling, slaked, slead, smoking, smoothness, stadie, starlight, starry, speculation, Stoician, suasion, submit, summit, superfice, supply, sway, sweller, tempest, theatre, theater, thenceforth, thunderer, thunderlight, tragedian, tragedy, tranquillity, transport, troublabla, tumbling, twitter, two-footed, unagreeable, unassayed, unbetide, unbowed, uncovenable, undepartable, undiscomfited, undoubtous, uneschewable, unexercised, ungentle, unhoped, universal, universality, universality, unleeful, unmovablety, unparegal, unperegal, unpiteous, unpiteous, unplight, unplite, unraced, unscience, unsolemn, unstanchable, unstanched, untreatable, unusage, unweened, unwit, unworshipful, unwrap, upheaping, used, variant, vengeress, voluntarily, weening, weeply, withinforth, witnessfully, wood \"\n\nAnelida and Arcite is a retelling of an old Roman story previously written by Boccaccio.\n\n\" assure, awaiting, causeless, chair, chantepleure, crampish, crookedly, desolate, doubleness, ecliptic, excuse, lowly, sound, subtile, Theban, whaped, unfeigned, whaped, womanhead \"\n\nTroilus and Criseyde is a story from Boccaccio's \"Il Filostrato\".\n\n\" abbetting, abusion, accident, accord, accusement, adieu, adorn, adverse, advertence, advocary, a-game, agree, alembic, aloud, alter, ambassador, appoint, argument, alite, ambage, amphilbology, argument, Aries, a-root, asfast, askance, asper, aspre, astrologer, atrede, attendance, attrition, atwixt, audience, augury, avaunter, await, bawdry, bay, beblot, befalling, benignity, bestiality, betrend, beware, blossomy, bounteous, burn, bypath, calculing, captive, casual, childishly, chittering, circle, circumscrive, collateral, combust, comedy, complain, complete, conceit, concord, conserve, consolation, constraint, continuance, convers, counterpoise, cramp, crow's foot, cumber-world, curation, dart, defeit, defet, define, deliber, deliberation, derring do, desespeir, desesperance, desesperaunce, determine, digression, direct, disadvance, disadventure, disblame, disconsolate, discordable, discordant, disdainous, disjoint, dispone, disport, disposition, disseverance, dissimule, distil, distill, disturn, divineress, dulcarnon, embassador, enchant, enterpart, entune, erratic, estately, estrange, exchange, excusable, execute, executrice, expert, eyed, faithed, farewell, fatal, fate, faun, feasting, fervently, fetching, finally, firmly, fix, forbysen, forlose, forpass, fury, future, gaure, goodlihead, good night, goosish, governance, graceless, groof, grufe, guide, half-god, hardiment, hawking, heinous, hemisphere, herdess, heroner, hollowness, homecoming, horizon, howne, humbly, hust, immortal, impression, increase, in-eche, infernal, influence, infortune, inhelde, inhielde, injure, inknit, intendment, interchange, intercommune, janglery, jeopard, Jove, jumper, just, kankedort, knotless, let-game, lethargy, liberty, lign-aloes, loadstar, lodestar, martial, mask, melodious, misaccount, misconstrue, misforgive, mislived, mismeter, molest, muck, mucker, munch, mutability, natal, native, new, nouriture, occidental, oriental, ounded, outring, overcarve, over-haste, over-rede, palaceward, palaceward, palaestrial, parody, peoplish, philosophical, phrenetic, plumb rule, pole arctic, predestiny, pregnant, Progne, proverb, qualm, racket, rackle, railed, refigure, refrain, refreid, reheting, reprehension, repression, resistence, resort, resport, return, revoke, Robin, rootless, rosy, royal, ruin, safeguard, saluing, sand, satyr, scrivenliche, secondly, sentiment, shapely, signifer, sling-stone, slink, sliver, snowish, soar, sob, space, strangely, subtilty, sugared, sunnish, surplus, supprise, teary, tempestous, testy, thriftily, thrifty, trance, transitory, transmew, trapdoor, tremor, unapt, unbody, unbridled, unbroided, uncircumscript, undeserved, unespied, unfeelingly, unhappily, universe, unkissed, unlikeliness, \nunlove, unmanhood, unnest, unprayed, unsheathe, \nunsitting, unswell, unthrifty, untied, untormented, untroth, unwist, urn, vapour, verre, vetch, virtueless, voidee, voluptuous, vulgarly, vulture, wantrust, weak, well-shapen, well-willy, wester, wieldy, womanhood, womanish, wrongfully, yfled, yold, yolden \"\nThe Legend of Good Women is a dream vision love poem.\n\n\" accompass, adulation, agrote, angel-like, angrily, appete, appetite, arguing, bedote, bench, betraising, bleeding, box, bridled, browd, clift, complaining, countryward, crinkled, distain, during, emboss, ensure, eternally, everything, famous, father-in-law, felicity, figuring, fingering, fleuron, forgiving, foundation, fret, gledy, graciousness, imagining, infinite, joining, knightly, lure, Mantuan, paper-white, penful, presenting, radevore, reclaiming, renownee, ruled, seemliness, skirmishing, stately, storial, subtilly, subtilely, tidife, tidive, tuteler, toteler, virelay, well, wifehood \"\n\nTreatise on the Astrolabe is Chaucer's scientific paper of clearer definitions on how to use the Astrolabe, an astronomical instrument.\n\n\" adding, aline, almanac, almucantar, almury, altitude, Arabic, Arctic, arm-hole, Arsechieles tables, azimuth, calculer, Capricorn, coldness, compilator, concentric, couching, crepuscule, cross-line, denticle, depression, descension, direct, distant, elevate, elevation, elongation, embelif, epicycle, equal, equator, equinox, fraction, Gemini, gerful, Greek, half-ebb, hence-forthward, indeterminate, intercept, introductory, latitude, line-right, longitude, lop-web, meridian, perpendicular, possibly, precedent, rete, retrograde, right angle, scale, Scorpio, second, septentrional, site, solid, solsticion, succedent, Taurus, tortuous, tropic, unstrange, usward, utility, vulgar \"\n\nBelow are words first attested to in his miscellaneous poems.\n\n\n\n\" accumbrous, advocatrice, ancille, artillery, aspen, benevolence, besprent, blaspheme, blasphemer, cannel-bone, carrack, carack, cart-wheel, castigation, causer, collusion, comeliness, complaint, confeder, convict, coverter, craze, create, dapple-grey, delicacy, desespeire, desperation, distrouble, down, dullness, dulness, emboss, enfortune, enlumine, entune, envoy, envy, errant, eterne, fattish, fawn, feigned, fers, fickleness, fleshy, flute, forloin, fortune, fortuned, furious, gere, glazing, half-word, hearse, Hercules, humblesse, inconstance, interess, jane, knack, lake, lambish, lancegay, leer, likeliness, limer, litster, lustihead, meet, midpoint, overstrew, prose, rechase, resign, royalty, scant, seeming, solein, solitude, sore, sough, sturdily, suffisance, suing, surmount, sweaty, tall, Tantalus, tapet, Tartary, tickleness, tongued, traitress, traitoress, Turkey, tyranny, uncorven, uncoupling, unforged, ungrubbed, unsown, weld, well-faring, well-founded, whirling, wildly, wildness \"\n\nBelow are some of the words first found in Chaucer's manuscripts that we use today and how they were used in his poems in the 14th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47737345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47737345", "title": "Erika Lee", "text": "Erika Lee\n\nErika Lee is the Rudolph J. Vecoli Chair and Director of the Immigration History Center at the University of Minnesota and an award-winning non-fiction writer. \n\nThe granddaughter of Chinese immigrants, she grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nLee graduated in history at Tufts University in 1991 before continuing her studies at the University of California, Berkeley, where she earned an M.A. in 1993 and a Ph.D. in 1998. She has authored two books on American history, both of which received several awards. \"At America's Gates: Chinese Immigration during the Exclusion Era, 1882-1943\" (2003) won the 2003 Theodore Saloutos prize for the best book in immigration studies and the 2003 History Book Award from the Association for Asian American Studies. \"Angel Island: Immigrant Gateway to America\" (2010) received the Caughey Prize in Western History from the Western History Association as well as the 2010 Adult Non-Fiction Award in Asian Pacific American Literature from the American Library Association.\n\nHer most recent work, \"The Making of Asian America: A History\", was published in September 2015.\n"}
{"id": "4521289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4521289", "title": "Ettore Beggiato", "text": "Ettore Beggiato\n\nEttore Beggiato (born August 4, 1954), is an Italian historian and politician.\n\nAs member of several Venetist political parties (Liga Veneta 1980–1987, Union of the Venetian People 1987–1995, Liga Veneta–Lega Nord 1995–1998, Liga Veneta Repubblica/Veneti d'Europa/Liga Fronte Veneto 1998–2004), he was member of the Regional Council of Veneto from 1985 to 2000. He was secretary of Liga Fronte Veneto from 2002 to 2004, when he joined the North-East Project, party of which he is currently member.\n\nBeggiato is the author of many books about the history and the culture of Veneto such as \"1866: The great swindle\", about the referendum with which Veneto was united with Italy. He demonstrated how it was not regular and not fairly democratic at all. For these reasons, Beggiato claims that Veneto is an independent nation and that it is necessary to re-celebrate it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7973400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7973400", "title": "Foco", "text": "Foco\n\nThe foco theory of revolution by way of guerrilla warfare, also known as focalism ( ), was formulated by French intellectual and government official Régis Debray, whose main source of inspiration was Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara's experiences surrounding his rebel army's victory in the 1959 Cuban Revolution.\n\nIts central principle is that vanguardism by cadres of small, fast-moving paramilitary groups can provide a focus (in Spanish \"\") for popular discontent against a sitting regime and thereby lead a general insurrection. Although the original approach was to mobilize and launch attacks from rural areas, many foco ideas were adapted into urban guerrilla warfare movements by the late 1960s.\n\nLike other theorists of his era (such as Mao Zedong, Ho Chi Minh and Amílcar Cabral), Che Guevara believed that people living in countries still ruled by colonial powers, or living in countries subject to newer forms of economic exploitation, could best defeat colonial powers by taking up arms. Guevara also believed in fostering armed resistance not by concentrating one's forces in urban centers, but rather through the accumulation of strength in mountainous and rural regions where the enemy had less presence.\n\nFocalism, which was formally theorized by Régis Debray, draws on Guevara's experience of the 1959 Cuban Revolution, where a small group of 82 members landed in Cuba on board of the \"Granma\" in December 1956 and initiated a guerrilla war in the Sierra Maestra. During two years, the poorly armed \"escopeteros\", at times fewer than 200 men, won victories against Fulgencio Batista's army and police force, which numbered between 30,000 and 40,000 in strength. The small group finally took Havana after the December 1958 Battle of Santa Clara.\n\nThis surprising success led to the focalism theory which inspired by Mao Zedong's doctrine of people's war counted on the support of the people to win the war. However, the focalist theory stated that this popular support would be created during the armed struggle itself, therefore against the predominant Marxist theory there was no need to wait for the \"objective conditions\" of a popular uprising to engage the last stage of the revolutionary struggle (i.e. armed struggle). In other words, a small group of revolutionaries was considered to be enough to jumpstart a revolution since this group could begin the revolutionary struggle while at the same time developing the conditions necessary for popular support for the revolution. This theory focused heavily on the notion of vanguardism and on the moral value of the example.\n\nWhile focalism drew from previous Marxist–Leninist ideas and the Maoist strategy of \"protracted people's war\", it also broke with many of the mid-Cold War era's established communist parties. Despite Nikita Khrushchev's eager support for \"wars of national liberation\" and the focalists' own enthusiasm for Soviet Union patronage, Cuba's own Popular Socialist Party had retreated from active confrontation with the Fulgencio Batista regime and Castroism/Guevarism substituted the focalist militia for the more traditional vanguard party.\n\nIn \"Guerrilla Warfare\" (\"La Guerra de Guerrillas\"), Guevara did not count on a Leninist insurrection led by the proletariat as had happened during the 1917 October Revolution, but on popular uprisings which would gain strength in rural areas and would overthrow the regime. The vanguard guerrilla was supposed to bolster the population's morale, not to take control of the state apparatus itself and this overthrow would occur without any external or foreign help. According to him, guerrillas were to be supported by conventional armed forces: It is well established that guerrilla warfare constitutes one of the phases of war; this phase can not, on its own, lead to victory.\n\nGuevara added that this theory was formulated for developing countries and that the guerrilleros had to look for support among both the workers and the peasants.\n\nIn power, Castro sided with the Soviet Union in the 1961 Sino-Soviet split while Guevara sympathized with China. Perhaps accelerated by this divide, the latter man shifted his energies away from Cuba to adventurism, promoting guerrilla focalism overseas. Though this method had triumphed in Cuba, Guevara saw it subsequently fail in Africa and Latin America. Laurent-Désiré Kabila put it in practice in Congo. Despite being backed by the Castro regime, Guevara's attempt to forge an insurgency in Bolivia led to his capture and subsequent execution in 1967.\n\nGuevara's unsuccessful campaign in Bolivia dampened Cuba's overt support of focoist uprisings internationally for several years and many revolutionary movements split into different factions, particularly New Left, Maoist and/or urban guerrilla breakaways from previous Moscow-line parties and/or \"foco\" groups. By the mid-1970s, Cuba revived and further escalated its previous zeal, directly deploying its military in Africa before the collapse of détente—e.g. supporting up the MPLA government in Angola.\n\nIn Argentina, the People's Revolutionary Army (ERP), led by Roberto Santucho, attempted to create a \"foco\" in the Tucumán Province. The attempt failed after the government of Isabel Perón signed in February 1975 the secret presidential decree 261, which ordered the army to neutralize and/or annihilate the ERP insurgency (which was not supported by a foreign power and also lacked popular support). Operativo Independencia gave power to the Argentine Armed Forces to \"execute all military operations necessary for the effects of neutralizing or annihilating the action of subversive elements acting in the Province of Tucumán\".\n\nGeneral Acdel Vilas immediately deployed over 3,000 soldiers, including conscripts from the Fifth Infantry Brigade and two companies of elite commandos. While fighting the guerrillas in the jungle, Vilas concentrated on uprooting the ERP support network in the towns, using state terror tactics, inspired by the 1961 Battle of Algiers, later adopted nationwide as well as a civic action campaign. The ERP was quickly defeated, but this military campaign marked the beginning of the Dirty War in Argentina.\n\nAfter victories for a once-divided, recently reunited Sandinista movement in Nicaragua and the united front-style New Jewel Movement in Grenada in 1979, Castro effectively supported the creation of the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front of El Salvador by pushing for the merge of five other communist factions between December 1979 and October 1980. Similarly, Cuba supported four rival guerrilla groups' decision to form the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity coalition of Guatemala in 1982.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38823", "title": "Fulda", "text": "Fulda\n\nFulda () (historically in English called Fuld) is a city in Hesse, Germany; it is located on the river Fulda and is the administrative seat of the Fulda district (\"Kreis\"). In 1990, the town hosted the 30th Hessentag state festival.\n\nIn 744 Saint Sturm, a disciple of Saint Boniface, founded the Benedictine monastery of Fulda as one of Boniface's outposts in the reorganization of the church in Germany. It later served as a base from which missionaries could accompany Charlemagne's armies in their political and military campaigns to fully conquer and convert pagan Saxony.\n\nThe initial grant for the abbey was signed by Carloman, Mayor of the Palace in Austrasia (in office 741–47), the son of Charles Martel. The support of the Mayors of the Palace, and later of the early Pippinid and Carolingian rulers, was important to Boniface's success. Fulda also received support from many of the leading families of the Carolingian world. Sturm, whose tenure as abbot lasted from 747 until 779, was most likely related to the Agilolfing dukes of Bavaria. \n\nFulda also received large and constant donations from the Etichonids, a leading family in Alsace, and from the Conradines, predecessors of the Salian Holy Roman Emperors. Under Sturm, the donations Fulda received from these and other important families helped in the establishment of daughter-houses near Fulda.\n\nBetween 790 and 819 the community rebuilt the main monastery church to more fittingly house the relics. They based their new basilica on the original 4th-century (since demolished) Old St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, using the transept and crypt plan of that great pilgrimage church to frame their own saint as the \"Apostle to the Germans\". \n\nThe crypt of the original abbey church still holds those relics, but the church itself has been subsumed into a Baroque renovation. A small, 9th-century chapel remains standing within walking distance of the church, as do the foundations of a later women's abbey. Rabanus Maurus served as abbot at Fulda from 822 to 842.\n\nPrince-abbot Balthasar von Dernbach adopted a policy of counterreformation. In 1571 he called in the Jesuits to found a school and college. He insisted that the members of the chapter should return to a monastic form of life. Whereas his predecessors had tolerated Protestantism, resulting in most of the citizenry of Fulda and a large portion of the principality's countryside professing Lutheranism, Balthasar ordered his subjects either to return to the Catholic faith or leave his territories.\n\nThe foundation of the abbey Fulda and its territory originated with an Imperial grant, and the sovereign principality therefore was subject only to the German emperor. Fulda became a bishopric in 1752 and the prince-abbots were given the additional title of prince-bishop. The prince-abbots (and later prince-bishops) ruled Fulda and the surrounding region until the bishopric was forcibly dissolved by Napoleon I in 1802.\n\nThe city went through a baroque building campaign in the 18th century, resulting in the current “Baroque City” status. This included a remodeling of Fulda Cathedral (1704–12) and of the \"Stadtschloss \"(Fulda Castle-Palace, 1707–12) by Johann Dientzenhofer. The city parish church, St. Blasius, was built between 1771–85. In 1764 a porcelain factory was started in Fulda under Prince-Bishop, Prince-Abbot Heinrich von Bibra, but shortly after his death it was closed down in 1789 by his successor, Prince-Bishop, Prince-Abbot Adalbert von Harstall.\n\nThe city was given to Prince William Frederick of Orange-Nassau (the later King William I of the Netherlands) in 1803 (as part of the short-lived Principality of Nassau-Orange-Fulda), was annexed to the Grand Duchy of Berg in 1806, and in 1809 to the Principality of Frankfurt. After the Congress of Vienna of 1814–15, most of the territory went to the Electorate of Hesse, which Prussia annexed in 1866.\n\nFulda lends its name to the Fulda Gap, a traditional east-west invasion route used by Napoleon I and others. During the Cold War, it was presumed to be an invasion route for any conventional war between NATO and Soviet forces. Downs Barracks in Fulda was the headquarters of the American 14th Armored Cavalry Regiment, later replaced by the 11th Armored Cavalry Regiment. The cavalry had as many as 3,000 soldiers from the end of World War II until 1993. Not all of those soldiers were in Fulda proper, but scattered over observation posts and in the cities of Bad Kissingen and Bad Hersfeld. The strategic importance of this region (along the old West/East German border) led to a large United States– and Soviet military presence.\n\n\nFulda station is a transport hub and interchange point between local and long distance traffic of the German railway network, and is classified by Deutsche Bahn as a category 2 station. It is on the Hanover–Würzburg high-speed railway; the North-South line (\"Nord-Süd-Strecke\"), comprising the Bebra-Fulda line north of Fulda, and the Kinzig Valley Railway and Fulda-Main Railway to the south; the Vogelsberg Railway, which connects to the hills of the Vogelsberg in the west; and the Fulda–Gersfeld Railway (Rhön Railway) to Gersfeld in the Rhön Mountains to the east.\n\nFulda is on the Bundesautobahn 7 (BAB 7). Bundesautobahn 66 starts at the interchange with the BAB 7, heading south towards Frankfurt. Fulda is also on the Bundesstraße 27.\n\nFulda is twinned with:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265258", "title": "George Collingridge", "text": "George Collingridge\n\nGeorge Collingridge (1847–1931) was an Australian writer and illustrator best known today for his early assertions of Portuguese discovery of Australia in the 16th century.\n\nHe was born in Oxfordshire, England, educated in Paris (in the 15th arrondissement), served in the Papal Zouaves (alongside his brother Alfred, who died in the Battle of Mentana), and migrated to Australia in 1879 aboard the \"Lusitania\" (not the ship of the same name that sank in 1915). He settled in the then isolated area of Berowra, before moving to nearby Hornsby, New South Wales. \n\nSince his French academic qualifications as a \"Professeur\" were not recognised by Australian universities, he worked as an artist and art teacher, and contributed drawings and articles to local newspapers. He founded the first Australian art magazine, , and was one of the founders of the Royal Art Society of New South Wales .\n\nHis publication of \"The Discovery of Australia\" in 1895 earned him accolade as a \"genius\" and as \"an authority on geographical matters\" from members of the Royal Geographical Society as well as foreign honours: in 1908 he was created a Knight Commander of the Order of Santiago by the King of Portugal. In 1917 he was made a Knight Commander of the Order of Isabella la Catolica by the King of Spain. However, not everyone was as complimentary; his official biographer, O.H.K. Spate, described him as of \"undisciplined intellect\" and lacking a \"rigorously judicial habit of mind\"; the book was a financial failure; and a proposed scheme to use a simplified version of the book, \"The First Discovery of Australia and New Guinea\" (1906), in schools was withdrawn.\n\nCollingridge published \"Alice in One Dear Land\" in 1922. It is a handmade book with numerous small tipped in plates. Alice is depicted in the Australian bush with a koala, this is the first depiction of \"Alice in Wonderland\" in an Australian setting.\n\nCollingridge's distant relative, Vanessa Collingridge, published a book on Captain Cook, entitled \"Captain Cook\" (2002), and the publication of this book has caused a certain resurgence of interest in George Collingridge in recent years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25107199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25107199", "title": "Globalization in China", "text": "Globalization in China\n\nGlobalization in China discusses the history of globalization in China; including the economic, social, cultural influences that have been integrated into Chinese society.\n\nThe first historical instance of China engaging in internationalism was during the Han Dynasty. At the start of the Han Dynasty, the Huns in the north were attacking the frontiers of Han and trying to obtain riches. Emperor Wu of Han wanted to gain an alliance with a country called Dayuezhi so the two countries could join together and fight against the Huns. To obtain this alliance, Emperor Wu sent Zhang Qian to the West to establish economic and cultural connections. History records that during the Han Dynasty there were four primary avenues of contact between China and Europe. They included the northern land route, the central land route, the southern sea route, and the far southern sea route. The most famous of these routes is the central land route, or the classical Silk Road, comprising a network of roads stretching from northwest China to the ports of Syria and the Black Sea, which passed through the oasis of the Turkestans and Northern Persia. The Silk Road was significant for Chinese emperors because it provided dominance over Central Asia by developing resources and provided new markets for the export of China's most valuable resources.\n\nDuring the Tang Dynasty there was a new age of urbanization and increased maritime commerce. For instance, Changan, the capital of the Dynasty, developed into one of the largest cities during that time. By 742 CE, the population had reached almost 2 million and census showed that 5,000 foreigners lived in the city: Turks, Iranians, Indians, and others from along the road. Trade continued to flourish during this period and brought an increased number of foreigners, foreign religions, and foreign ideas in China.\n\nThe Song Dynasty transformed the focus of the Silk Road from the reliance on domestic trade to a reliance on Pacific Orientation. Trade was now supported by a large merchant marine and defended by an imperial navy and long distance routes to the Middle East, India and the coast of Africa were now more readily available. During this period, the government started to heavily regulate foreign trade due to military threats on the Northern border. In order to monitor the flow of commodities in international trade, the Bureau of Merchant Shipping was established to tax merchant ships passing through. In addition, international trade became less focused on cultural exchanges and instead was seen as a necessity for the growth of the Chinese economy.\n\nChina's efforts to balance the economic and socio-political tasks of education in its modern nation-building can be traced back to the struggles of the late Qing dynasty, under threat of foreign aggression for modernization and national survival. This dilemma has persisted through the establishment of the Republic of China (1912–49) and the People's Republic of China, and onto that of the successors and into modern day.\n\nOlder societies have had to overhaul their institutions and world views radically in order to conform with the models of the modern nation state system, with post-1949 China being the time that this reordering took place within China. After the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, the Chinese government instituted a number of reforms that were meant to increase economic growth while at the same time stifling the proliferation of democratic sentiments in their country. To the CCP (or the CPC), Democracy leads to political instability which in turn impedes economic development and this is a sentiment believed by many people inside China.\n\nIn 1989 China's population was the largest in the world but its GDP was only ninth in the world, yet twenty-five years later China's economy has become the second largest after only the U.S. This major increase in economic development was not without a cost because although economic reform and globalization had brought China unprecedented wealth it also brought China a monstrous increase in carbon dioxide emissions.\n\nSince 2005, China has spent more than $56 billion in sub-Saharan Africa, with significant investment in oil, platinum, copper, nickel, and manganese as well as other extracting industries. China's bilateral trade with African countries rose from $10 billion in 2000 to $125 billion in 2010 and stands to reach $300 billion by 2015, surpassing the United States as Africa's largest trading partner. China's trade with Latin America has also increased dramatically, rising to 1,500% between 2000 and 2010 through loans and direct foreign investment. China is one of the primary winners of the Western sanctions against Iran, as it has allowed them to become its top trading partner, purchasing 400,000 barrels of oil per day all paid for with the yuan in an attempt to elevate the global standing of the yuan against the U.S. dollar.\n\nChinese integration into the global financial system has taken its first steps by way of the launch of the \"Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect\" and \"Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect\". The implications that an increase in Chinese integration into the global financial system are many, with positives and negatives for both the Chinese and the Western world.\n\nIn Hong Kong there have been a number of political battles due to a feeling that with the increase of globalization came an increase of \"Chinaization\". Expanding global commerce and the corporate control of the political process weakens the autonomy and power of local communities, which is what Jihad vs. McWorld argues. The more integrated communities become with mainland China, the more prosperity they receive, but most of the advantages go to the various business tycoons and corporate elites, which can be seen as an example of the rise in income inequality in China.\n\nSince 1980, China has undergone a series of reform policies aimed at transforming its economic system from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy by combining the planning economic systems from socialism with a market mechanism from capitalism. This was spearheaded by Deng Xiaoping who set out to create a more economically open China, with the results of this new liberalization and globalization of the economy being substantial. During the period of 1978 to 2012, China's GDP grew about 9.8% annually and its GDP volume increased 22.5 times during this period, while its GDP per capita grew at an annual rate of 8.5% and increased 15 times in the same period. By 2010, China surpassed Japan to become the world's second-largest economy and at the same time it also surpassed Germany in terms of export volume, becoming the largest in the world. The massive increase of GDP in China has led to an increase of living standards for the Chinese since their incomes have doubled or even quadrupled every 10 years. Amid this economic outburst, the income distribution in China has increased dramatically, changing China from a relatively equal socialist country to a very unequal country.\n\nThe economic globalization of China has transformed the nature of its national policy preferences, calling into question for the rest of the world what their true intentions might very well be. The efforts to increase the liberalization of the Chinese economy, spearheaded by the U.S., were met with mixed feelings due to China's rapid economic progress.The bittersweet nature of China's rise in economic power leads to questions about whether or not it will support the existing international order of things or challenge it.\n\nThe undervalued Chinese yuan with respect to the United States dollar has brought about questions to whether or not a move to a more flexible exchange rate would be beneficial to the Chinese economy, with most experts arguing that no dramatic change in exchange rate is needed and that the most needed policy attention is the domestic financial sector, not the international.\n\nThe Chinese desire for globalization is countered by the fear of losing their own culture, identity, and history, meaning that the suspicions towards the English language seeping into Chinese (and worldwide) cultures might be justified, if even to a small degree. English has been seen as a new form of opium to some which indicates a growing hostility towards English in China but at the same time raises questions due to English being the predominate language for international trade and communication.\n\nChina faces an unprecedented multitude of problems with regard to language choice and linguistic identity, some of which are due to challenges imposed by global English from the outside world. Although English was denounced as a language for the Bourgeoisie and imperialist during the Cultural Revolution, it is viewed as a necessary tool in China's modernization and integration with the world.\n\nIn the 1990s municipal planners in a major Port of China, Dalian, sought to make the city a regional hub for trade, finance, and tourism, attempting to make the city a \"Hong Kong of the North\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7808635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7808635", "title": "Henri-Raymond Casgrain", "text": "Henri-Raymond Casgrain\n\nHenri-Raymond Casgrain (December 16, 1831 – February 11, 1904) was a French Canadian Roman Catholic priest, author, publisher, and professor of history.\n\nBorn in Rivière-Ouelle, Lower Canada, the son Charles-Eusèbe Casgrain and Eliza Anne Baby, Casgrain studied at College of Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pocatière. In 1852, he enrolled in the Montreal School of Medicine and Surgery, but became a priest in 1856. He started teaching at the College of Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pocatière until he was forced to give up teaching because of ill health. In 1859, he was appointed curate of the parish of La Nativité-de-Notre-Dame at Beauport and was free to devote himself entirely to literary pursuits.\n\nIn 1877, he was awarded a doctorate of history from the Universite Laval, where he would remain as professor.\n\nHe wrote primarily on New France and its personalities, such as Samuel de Champlain, Louis-Joseph de Montcalm and his aide-de-camp Francis de Gaston, Chevalier de Levis.\n\nFrom 1889 to 1890, he was the president of the Royal Society of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "95293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95293", "title": "Hina (goddess)", "text": "Hina (goddess)\n\nHina is the Eastern Polynesian variant for the given name Sina. Hina/Sina is the name assigned to a number of Polynesian goddesses and queens.\n\nAmong the Iwi of New Zealand, Hina is usually considered to be either the elder sister or the wife of Maui. \n\nThe most common story that presents Hina as the wife of Maui tells of Te Tunaroa, the father of all eels, who one day visited the pool where Hina bathed. One day, as Hina was bathing, the eel-god rubbed against her. This occurred over a number of visits until Te Tunaroa grew bold enough to rub against Hina's genitals, molesting her.\n\nWhen Maui heard of this act he went and attacked Te Tunaroa cutting his body into bits, the tail landed in the sea and became the conger eel, whereas the other end landed in the swamps as the fresh water eels. Smaller pieces became lamprey and hagfish.\n\nA number of stories are told about Hina as the elder sister of Maui. Some iwi say that it was Hina who taught Maui to plait the ropes needed to capture the sun, using a strand of her own sacred hair to give the ropes supernatural strength. This legend recognizes important ritual status that elder sisters held in traditional Maori society.\n\nHina was associated with phases of the moon under the names Hinatea (Fair Hina) and Hinauri (Dark Hina). The moon is also known by the name Mahina. Initially Hinatea (Fair Hina) was married to a man named Irawaru. During a fishing trip Irawaru antagonized Maui who had failed to catch any large fish. In revenge Maui assaulted Irawaru when they returned to shore, pushing his brother-in-law under the keel of their boat, breaking his back and other bones. Irawaru was turned into a dog (kuri) one breed of which was known as Irawaru.\n\nWhen Hina heard what Maui had done she threw herself into the sea, but did not die and was instead carried across the waves to Motutapu (Sacred Isle). Her name was changed to Hinauri (Dark Hina) due to her darker mood. Eventually Hinauri would be welcomed by the people of Motutapu and was taken to the house of chief Tinirau god of fishes, becoming his new wife. The existing wives were jealous and tried to assault Hinauri, but using her supernatural power Hinauri killed the other wives of Tinirau and so become the senior wife. (Biggs 1966:450). \n\nHina was the mother of Tuhuruhuru, for whom the ritual intiation ritual was performed by the tohunga (priest) Kae. After this is done, Tinirau lends Kae his pet whale to take him home. In spite of strict instructions to the contrary, Kae forces the whale, Tutunui, into shallow water, where it becomes stranded and is killed, roasted and eaten by Kae and his people. When he learns of this Tinirau is furious and sends Hinauri with a party of women (often they are Tinirau's sisters) to capture Kae. The sisters perform indecent dances to make him laugh so they can see his crooked teeth. Then the women sing a magic song which puts Kae into a deep sleep, and carry him back to Motutapu. When Kae wakes from his sleep he is in Tinirau's house. Tinirau taunts him for his treachery, and kills him (Grey 1970:69, Tregear 1891:110, Biggs 1966:450).\n\nA girl named Hina-moe-aitu (\"Hina-sleeping-with-a-god\") liked to bathe in a pool that housed many eels. One day, as Hina was bathing, one of the eels transformed into a young man. Hina took him as her lover. His name was Tuna.\n\nAfter they had been together for a while, one day Tuna told Hina that there would be a great downpour the next day. He would be washed up onto the threshold of her house in his eel-form. When that happened, Tuna said, Hina must cut off his head and bury it, and then regularly visit the place where the head had been buried.\n\nHina obeyed Tuna, returning faithfully to watch the place where she had buried his head. After many days, she saw a shoot sprout from the spot. Another shoot appeared, and the two shoots grew into a pair of coconut trees—the first coconut trees known to man.\n\nIn Mangaian tradition, the coconut's white flesh is called \"Tuna’s brains\", and it is said that one can see a face when one looks at the shell of a coconut.\n\nFor a time, the goddess Hina lived as the wife of Te Tuna, the god of eels. But she grew tired of him and decided to seek love elsewhere. Telling Tuna that she was going to get him some delicious food, Hina left him and went onto land.\n\nHina went from place to place, seeking a lover. But all the men she met were afraid to take Tuna’s wife, fearing the eel-god’s vengeance. Finally she met Maui, whose mother Taranga urged him to take the goddess as his wife.\n\nWhen the people round about learned that Maui had taken Hina as his wife, they went to tell Tuna. At first, Tuna didn’t care, but the people annoyed him about it so much that he eventually vowed to win back his wife from Maui.\n\nAlong with four companions, Tuna rushed toward Maui’s home, carried by a huge wave. But Maui’s power turned back the wave and left Tuna and his companions beached on the reefs. Maui killed three of Tuna’s companions, while one escaped with a broken leg. Tuna himself Maui spared.\n\nTuna actually lived in peace in Maui’s home for some time. But one day, Tuna challenged Maui to a duel. Each would take a turn leaping into the others’ body and trying to kill him. If Tuna killed Maui, then Tuna would take his wife back. Tuna’s turn came first: he made himself small and entered Maui’s body. When he came back out, Maui was intact. Now it was Maui’s turn: Maui made himself small and entered Tuna’s body, tearing it apart. Maui cut off Tuna’s head and, at his mother’s suggestion, buried it in a corner of his house.\n\nIn time, a shoot sprouted from Tuna’s buried head and grew into a coconut tree. That was how humankind acquired coconuts.\n\nIn Hawaiian mythology, there are variations of the name Hina, including Hina-puku-iʻa (Hina-gathering-seafood) the goddess of fishermen, and Hina-ʻopu-hala-koʻa who gave birth to all reef life.\n\nMany stories about the goddess Hina, especially in connection with the moon, can be found in chapter 15 (“Hina Myths”) of Martha Beckwith’s \"Hawaiian Mythology\".\n\nHina is mostly described as a very attractive, smart, beautiful, determined young woman pursued by men and other creatures. Hina becomes tired of living in the crowd, flees to the moon, and eventually becomes goddess of it.\n\nIn Samoa, the equivalent the name \"Sina\" referred to in many different stories in mythology. One example is the legend Sina and the Eel which is associated with the Mata o le Alelo pool on the island of Savai'i.\n\nIn Rapa Nui mythology, Hina takes the form of Hina-Oio, a goddess of sea animals who was married to Atua-Metua. \n\nRichard Adams wrote a poem retelling the Tahitian story of Hina and Maui, published as a book, \"The Legend of Te Tuna\".\n\nAlso, in his popular book \"The Seven Daughters of Eve\", Bryan Sykes used Hina's name, (spelled therein \"Ina\") to denote the clan matriarch of mtDNA haplogroup B.\n\nDavid Lee Roth recorded a song called \"Hina\", contained on the hard rock album \"Skyscraper\", released in 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114955", "title": "Historic Centre of Lima", "text": "Historic Centre of Lima\n\nLocated principally in the city centre or Cercado de Lima and Rímac areas, the Historic Centre of Lima is among the most important tourist destinations in Peru.\n\nThe city of Lima, the capital of Peru, was founded by Francisco Pizarro on 18 January 1535 and given the name City of the Kings. Nevertheless, with time its original name persisted, which may come from one of two sources: Either the Aymara language \"lima-limaq\" (meaning \"yellow flower\"), or the Spanish pronunciation of the Quechuan word \"rimaq\" (meaning \"talker\", and actually written and pronounced \"limaq\" in the nearby Quechua I languages). It is worth noting that the same Quechuan word is also the source of the name given to the river that feeds the city, the Rimac river (pronounced as in the politically dominant Quechua II languages, with an \"r\" instead of an \"l\"). Early maps of Peru show the two names displayed jointly.\n\nIn 1988, UNESCO declared the historic center of Lima a World Heritage Site for its originality and high concentration of historic monuments constructed in the time of Spanish presence.\n\nOf the structures in the historical center of Lima, situated are more than 1,600 balconies that were built in the viceroyalty era as well as in the republic. In order to retain its conservation, the Municipality of Lima has invited individuals and companies to adopt a balcony in order to maintain them as if they were new. The abundance of these balconies adds to the particular harmony and originality to this part of the city.\n\nAt the time of the Viceroyalty of Peru, a work of art was created, a magnificence, a grandeur and a legendary royal life.\n\nThe authority of the viceroy, like representative of the Spanish monarchy was particularly important, since its appointment supposed an important ascent and the successful culmination of a race in the colonial administration.\n\nThe entrances to Lima of the new viceroys were specially lavish. For the occasion, the streets were paved with silver bars from the doors of the city of Lima to the Palace of the Viceroy.\n\nThe Archbishop Palace is the home of the Archbishop of Lima. It is a popular tourist attraction in the Historical centre of Lima, Peru. The first major church began construction in 1535. Pope Paul III turned it into an episcopal seat in 1541. In 1547, Lima was elevated to an archdiocese, which turned it by a short period, in the more extensive ecclesiastical circumscription of the world.\nThe patron of the episcopal seat is Saint Rosa of Lima.\n\nThe Museum of Italian Art is the only European arts museum of Peru. It has a wide collection of paintings, sculptures, drawings, prints and ceramics that belong to Italian artists from the beginnings of the 20th century, as well as a collection of 35 contemporary Italian paintings.\n\nThis house was constructed in 1535 on a pre-Columbian sanctuary.\nIt was constructed on the date, that is shared with that of the foundation of the city, it has been inhabited permanently by the descendants of the first proprietor, Jerónimo de Aliaga, standard-bearer and exchequer for Francisco Pizarro.\nThis home is the oldest mansion of the city and faces the Government Palace, former seat of Pizarro's rule, in a lateral street.\nTheir halls, extensive and luxurious and their inner patio, have all the characteristics of the most important mansions of the historical center of Lima of the viceroyalty time.\nGiven the perfect state of conservation, in special circumstances, this mansion often hosts certain cultural events. The mansion, still a private home, can be visited by pre-arrangement with an entry fee of approximately $11 US.\n\nIn this house, one of oldest of the city, lived the Oidor, that was named by the Spanish monarchy to act in the colonial administration. The Oidor had by functions to cross the administered territory to control its government. In this sense, it advised to the viceroy as a consultant.\n\nThis is one of the oldest houses of Lima, constructed in 1590 by a Jesuit priest by the name of Ruiz Portillo. The name of this large house was given by the Spaniards who arrived and stated the similarity of the house with one in Seville.\n\nThis is one of the most outstanding houses of the historical center, constructed in the middle of the 18th century with French influence. One is in its original state with its balconies a typical characteristic of colonial Lima.\n\nThis house was constructed in the 18th century by the Riva Agüero family, whose last member, the intellectual José de la Riva-Agüero, donated it to the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru. At the present time Agüero is used like headquarters of the Riva Institute, conserving an interesting historical file and a library being simultaneously used by the local Museum of Popular Art of the PUCP.\n\nConstruction was begun on the Cathedral of Lima in 1535—the same year the city was founded. The Cathedral of Lima displays architecture typical of the Spanish colonial era. The pews of the cathedral and the benches of the choir are of the finest quality. The Greater Altar is gold plated and has images of the colonial era. Within the cathedral are the ashes of Francisco Pizarro, the founder of Lima. Every year, in the month patriotism, is celebrated the mass Te Deum in gratefulness by the independence from Spain. A custom retaken by the Cardinal Juan Luis Cipriani, is to give the mass all Sundays at 11:00 a.m. In 2005 the mayor of Lima created the project of illuminating the exterior of the cathedral with new lights.\n\nIt took more than five decades delay for the construction of the church and the Convent of Santo Domingo, because the project begun at the same time as the foundation of Lima and the end of the 16th century marked by the end of it. The church is composed by three naves with a carved choral ashlar masonry in cedar wood. The church is crowned by a large cuple. The interior displays images from the first years of the City and also an image of Our Lady the Virgin of the Rosary, which first arrived at the Rímac Valley, Patron of the city, has deep relation with the Peruvian saints and by its remarkable devotion that was crowned in the year 1927 in a unique event in the religious history of the country. On the other hand, the convent, like all, has interesting claustros and in this case, with Sevillian style patios their typical tiles. Its capitulary room is of the baroque style. It is here, in 1551, that the National University of San Marcos was founded, the first in the Americas. The temple of Our Lady of the Rosary (original name of the church of Santo Domingo) was elevated to the category of basilica in 1930, and in its interior is the Altar of the Peruvian Saints, which is visited annually by thousands of residents of Peru and by many foreigners.\n\nThis architectonic complex was constructed in the 17th century and is made up by the church and the convent of San Francisco, as well as of the chapels of the Solitude and the Miracle. During your visit their claustros can be appreciated, their patios adorned with Sevillian tiles and the library. Here it is the headquarters of the Museum of Religious Art and the Zurbarán Room. Under this complex there is a network of underground galleries and catacombs that were a cemetery at the colonial time and which are also very much visited.\n\nThe Church of Merced was constructed in the 18th century with a churrigueresco style; appreciating it as much external as internally, the visitor occurs an idea of the splendor of the architecture of the time. In this church, full of works of art there is an emphasis on the greater altar in honor to the Virgin of Mercedes and one sacristía with arabesque tiles. Here it is possible to see one of the decks of collections of paintings and colonial statures of the city. The Virgin of the Mercedes is the patron of the Arms of the nation.\n\nSanctuary where is venerated main Peruvian catholic devotion \" Lord of Miracles\", Señor de los Milagros, who is Patron of the city. It was constructed together with Monastery of Nazarenas nuns in the 18th century, after the 1746 Lima–Callao earthquake.\n\nMain church of Society of Jesus in Peru, it was constructed in 1638 as Church of San Pablo Apóstol. In 1767 it was called San Pedro.\n\nThe Government Palace is the residence of the President of the Republic. Its original name is the House of Pizarro but informally it is designated to him like the Palace of Government.\n\nThe Palace of Torre Tagle probably is the most significant mansion built at the beginning of the 18th century. Initially it belonged to Don Bernardine Jose of Tagle Portocarrero, fourth and last Marquess of Torre Tagle. The Peruvian state acquired it in 1918 and from 1919 it is the main headquarters of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Peru. It is made of artistic Limean architecture which describes its originality and also demonstrates the racially mixed contributions of the Viceroyalty of Peru, fitting them together harmoniously. It has a carved stone cover and two balconies, that are authentic jewels of the \"City of the Kings\". One is in perfect state of conservation.\n\nThis park was constructed in 1870. In 1921 the park was located in where the cultural Center of the National University of San Marcos now stands. In the occasion of the centenary of the independence of the nation, the German colony arranged to construct the 30 meter Tower of the Clock. At noon, their bells touch notes of the national anthem.\n\nThe Plaza Mayor is located where Francisco Pizarro founded Lima. Initially, there were small stores and commerce. Also, it was the scene of an excess of bulls and served like the site of execution of the condemned until death by the Court of Santa Inquisición. In 1651, a bronze battery was placed in the center of the seat that lasts to date. It was in the Plaza Mayor where it was proclaimed, in 1821, the Act of Independence of Peru. It is surrounded by the Palace by Government, the Municipality of Lima, the Cathedral and the Archbishop's Palace.\n\nThis plaza was inaugurated in 1921 in the occasion of the centenary of the independence of Peru. In the central part, there is a monument in honor of General José de San Martín. It was built by the Catalan sculptor Mariano Benlliure. In this plaza of important buildings, the former Hotel Bolívar stands, which until the new millennium, was most elegant of Lima, as well as the Club Nacional, the watering hole for Lima's high society. The plaza has become one of the many symbols of Lima.\n\nPlaza dos de Mayo is a square built in 1874 by the Peruvian government to commemorate the Battle of Callao which occurred on 2 May 1866.\n\nThe Court of Santo Oficio was established in 1569 with the purpose of sanctioning heresies and other crimes against the Catholic faith. Its abolition dates from 1820. On the external part of this monument it is possible to see an imposing neoclassic porch and, in the main hall, an outstanding carved wood ceiling, which is considered best in the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1937806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1937806", "title": "Hotpants", "text": "Hotpants\n\nHotpants, hot pants, or booty shorts describe extremely short shorts, which may be worn by women and, to a lesser extent, by men. The term was first used by \"Women's Wear Daily\" in 1970 to describe shorts made in luxury fabrics such as velvet and satin for fashionable wear, rather than their more practical equivalents that had been worn for sports or leisure since the 1930s. The term has since become a generic term for any pair of extremely short shorts. While hotpants were briefly a very popular element of mainstream fashion in the early 1970s, by the mid-1970s they had become associated with the sex industry, which contributed to their fall from fashion. However, hotpants continue to be popular as clubwear well into the 2010s, and are often worn within the entertainment industry, particularly as part of cheerleader costumes, or for dancers (especially backup dancers). Performers such as Britney Spears and Kylie Minogue have famously worn hotpants as part of their public performances and presentation.\n\nWhilst the term \"hotpants\" is used generically to describe extremely short shorts, similar garments had been worn since the 1930s. These garments, however, were designed mainly for sports, beachwear and leisure wear, while hotpants were innovative in that they were made from non-activewear fabrics such as velvet, silk, crochet, fur and leather, and styled explicitly to be worn on the street, for parties, or even as bridal wear. Dorothy Tricario, a fashion curator at the Brooklyn Museum told \"The New York Times\" in 1971 that hotpants were part of a greater nostalgic revival of 1930s and 1940s fashion, specifically the short posing shorts worn by Hollywood stars like Ruby Keeler, Deanna Durbin, and Betty Grable. However, Tricario also observed that shorts had never before had such widespread acceptance as street or business wear as they did in early 1971.\n\nAccording to the fashion publicist Eleanor Lambert, the term \"hot pants\" was coined by \"Women's Wear Daily\" (\"WWD\") in 1970 to describe fashions innovated by the French ready-to-wear company Dorothée Bis. The \"WWD\" claim to have originated the term is also backed up by 1971 articles in \"The New York Times\" and the African-American magazine \"Jet\". \"Jet\"s fashion editor, Audrey Smaltz, suggested that because hotpants were best suited to Black women, they should be called \"Knockout Shorts\" as that name was more \"relevant to Blacks\", expressing the fashionable African-American Black woman's pride in her \"knockout body\" as well as paying tribute to Black identity and recent struggles. Other alternative names included \"les shorts\", \"short cuts\", \"cool pants\", and \"shortootsies\", with \"booty shorts\" as an early 21st-century term. Today, the term hotpants can be used for casual as well as fashion-wear short-shorts made in any fabric, or worn by any gender.\n\nWhile hotpants were principally marketed to women, men were also targeted, and the term can describe very short men's shorts.\n\nAt the end of the 1960s, the fashion industry had tried unsuccessfully to promote the mid-calf-length or midi skirt as a fashionable replacement for the miniskirt. In contrast to the lukewarm response to the midi, shoppers enthusiastically embraced the idea of short shorts, which were made available at all price levels from haute couture to inexpensive ready-to-wear. Lambert credits Mariuccia Mandelli of the Italian fashion label Krizia with designing the first \"hot pants\" in 1970. Hotpants are also increasingly credited to Mary Quant, who reportedly offered them in the late 1960s. Many designers from across the Western world produced their own versions of hotpants at all price levels, including Yves Saint Laurent, Valentino, Halston, and Betsey Johnson. Mass-produced versions were also sold through the Sears mail-order catalogue.\n\nHotpants were available for women, men and children, although they were principally worn by women. Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis bought a pair for wear while yachting, while other high-profile wearers included Elizabeth Taylor, Raquel Welch, and Jane Fonda. Hotpants were also worn by particularly adventurous men such as David Bowie, Sammy Davis Jr. and Liberace. Hotpants for men were slightly longer than the women's versions, although they were still shorter than usual.\n\nThe James Brown song \"Hot Pants (She Got to Use What She Got to Get What She Wants)\", released in August 1971, was, according to his trombonist Fred Wesley, inspired by the sight of women of all colours wearing hotpants in a wide range of materials in the Black and White Club, Brussels.\n\nThe historian Valerie Steele noted that hotpants, both as a name, and as a garment, quickly became associated with sexuality and prostitution due to their popularity with male spectators. In January 1971, a Manhattan-based male psychiatrist suggested that the popularity of hotpants lay in how they expressed a \"female's new freedom\", borrowing his phrasing from the women's liberation movement, but then went on to suggest that the wearer of hotpants wanted to relate to other people by drawing attention through \"sexually provocative\" dressing as a \"prelude to a genuine relationship\". By the mid-1970s, extremely short shorts had become shorthand for prostitution, particularly underage prostitution, as exemplified by the 1976 film \"Taxi Driver\", in which Jodie Foster's child-prostitute character was dressed in a pair of hotpants. Such associations contributed to hotpants becoming unattractive as a part of a woman's everyday wardrobe, although they remained popular wear in entertainment, party-wear and some evening contexts. The controversial associations with hotpants were still an issue in 1999, when Britney Spears posed for a photoshoot in \"Rolling Stone\" wearing a pink pair. The photographs, taken by David LaChapelle, presented Spears in provocative poses, surrounded by dolls and tricycles, with the word \"Baby\" rhinestoned across the seat of her hotpants, and led to widespread media debate and public commentary about whether it was appropriate for role models for young girls to present themselves in such a \"highly sexualised\" manner.\n\nIn 2000, Kylie Minogue notably wore a pair of gold lamé hotpants in her music video for Spinning Around, which led to widespread media focus on the garment and the singer's body within. The hotpants were eventually donated by Minogue to the Performing Arts Collection museum at the Arts Centre, Melbourne, where they are described as \"one of the most identifiable items of contemporary popular culture.\"\n\nHotpants, also called booty shorts continue being popular well into the 2010s, and are often seen in particular contexts such as Miami's South Beach and Venice Beach, Los Angeles, whose beach-to-bar environments have unique dress codes.\n\nHotpants can also be part of a uniform worn by cheerleaders and performers, or required wear in certain service industries. Southwest Airlines became notorious for the hotpants uniform they supplied for their stewardesses (nicknamed \"Love Birds\") in 1971, as featured in an ad campaign with the slogan \"Someone Else Up There Who Loves You.\" The tangerine-coloured uniforms (designed by Juanice Gunn Muse, the wife of M. Lamar Muse, the Southwest Airlines president) were worn by girls who were chosen for their good looks and friendliness. Lamar Muse boasted that having beautiful attendants in hotpants ensured that male passengers would fight to sit on the aisle rather than by the window. However, feminist organisations such as Stewardesses for Women's Rights protested and lobbied against such indignities. Also in 1971, the Hot Pants Patrol was introduced as an elite corps of female ushers for the Philadelphia Phillies baseball team, with the intention of attracting greater audiences for the games. While the majority of \"Fillies\" wore white microskirts as part of their uniform, the 36 members of the Hot Pants Patrol wore a red hotpants jumpsuit with white vinyl go-go boots. After pressure from feminist organisations, the Phillies retired the Hot Pants Patrol in 1982.\n\nHotpants or booty shorts remain a popular costume for cheerleaders and dancers, particularly hip hop performers, and are frequently worn by backup dancers. The uniform of the Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders consists of hotpants and midriff tops. In the early 21st century hotpants continue to be part of certain service industry uniforms, particularly where the wearers are likely to serve a predominantly male clientele. One example of this is Hooters, where the servers (or \"Hooters Girls\") are expected to wear very brief orange Dolphin shorts along with a tight tank top, pantyhose and a bra.\n\n"}
{"id": "1594726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1594726", "title": "India Government Mint, Mumbai", "text": "India Government Mint, Mumbai\n\nThe India Government Mint, Mumbai is one of the four mints in India and is in the city of Mumbai. The mint was established in 1829 by the then governor of the Bombay Presidency. Its main activity is the production of commemorative and development-oriented coins. The mint is opposite the Reserve Bank of India in the Fort area of South Mumbai. \n\nInitially governed by the governor of the Bombay Presidency, it was transferred to the Government of India on 18 May 1876 through Finance Department Resolution 247. In 1918, a branch of the Royal Mint of London was set up to issue British sovereigns. In April 1919, after manufacturing 12.95 lakh (1.295 million) coins, it was shut down. \n\nBesides coins, the mint produces medals for Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Home Affairs, educational institutions, social service institutions, badges etc. It is also a centre for the issuance of gold ingots in exchange of unrefined gold tendered by licensed dealers. The institution has a department that makes official weights and measures such as metric weights, capacity, and linear measures for state governments, laboratories and the Bureau of Indian Standards. \n\n"}
{"id": "1075422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1075422", "title": "Intelligence in the American Revolutionary War", "text": "Intelligence in the American Revolutionary War\n\nAmerican Intelligence in the American Revolutionary War was essentially monitored and sanctioned by the Continental Congress to provide military intelligence to the Continental Army to aid them in fighting the British during the American Revolutionary War. Congress created a Secret Committee for domestic intelligence, a Committee of Secret Correspondence for foreign intelligence, and a committee on spies, for tracking spies within the Patriot movement.\n\nThe Second Continental Congress created a Secret Committee on September 18, 1775. The Committee was not, however, a true intelligence agency, since the Committee of Secret Correspondence with which it often worked was mainly concerned with obtaining military supplies in secret and distributing them, and selling gunpowder to privateers chartered by the Congress. The Committee also took over and administered on a uniform basis the secret contracts for arms and gunpowder previously negotiated by certain members of the Congress without the formal sanction of that body. The Committee kept its transactions secret and destroyed many of its records to ensure the confidentiality of its work.\n\nThe Secret Committee employed agents overseas, often in cooperation with the Committee of Secret Correspondence. It gathered intelligence about secret Loyalist ammunition stores and arranged to seize them. The Committee also sent missions to seize British supplies in the southern colonies. It arranged the purchase of military stores through intermediaries to conceal the fact that Congress was the true purchaser. They then used foreign flags to attempt to protect the vessels from the British fleet.\n\nThe members of the Continental Congress appointed to the Committee included some of the most influential and responsible members of Congress: Benjamin Franklin, Robert Morris, Robert Livingston, John Dickinson, Thomas Willing, Thomas McKean, John Langdon, and Samuel Ward.\n\nRecognizing the need for foreign intelligence and foreign alliances, the Second Continental Congress created the Committee of Correspondence (soon renamed the Committee of Secret Correspondence) by a resolution of November 29, 1775:\n\nThe original Committee members—America's first foreign intelligence agency—were Benjamin Franklin, Benjamin Harrison, Thomas Johnson. Subsequent appointees included James Lovell, a teacher who had been arrested by the British after the Battle of Bunker Hill on charges of spying. He had later been exchanged for a British prisoner and was elected to the Continental Congress. On the Committee, he became the Congress' expert on codes and ciphers and has been called the father of American cryptanalysis.\n\nThe committee employed secret agents abroad, conducted covert operations, devised codes and ciphers, funded propaganda activities, authorized the opening of private mail, acquired foreign publications for use in analysis, established a courier system, and developed a maritime capability apart from that of the Continental Navy, and engaged in regular communications with Britons and Scots who sympathized with the American cause. It met secretly in December 1775 with a French intelligence agent who visited Philadelphia under cover as a Flemish merchant.\n\nOn April 17, 1777, the Committee of Secret Correspondence was renamed the Committee of Foreign Affairs but kept with its intelligence function. Matters of diplomacy were conducted by other committees or by the Congress as a whole. On January 10, 1781, the Department of Foreign Affairs—the forerunner of the Department of State—was created and tasked with \"obtaining the most extensive and useful information relative to foreign affairs\", the head of which was empowered to correspond \"with all other persons from whom he may expect to receive useful information.\"\n\nOn June 5, 1776, the Congress appointed John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Edward Rutledge, James Wilson, and Robert Livingston \"to consider what is proper to be done with persons giving intelligence to the enemy or supplying them with provisions.\" They were charged with revising the Articles of War in regard to espionage directed against the American forces. The problem was an urgent one: Dr. Benjamin Church, chief physician of the Continental Army, had already been seized and imprisoned as a British agent, but there was no civilian espionage act, and George Washington thought the existing military law did not provide punishment severe enough to afford a deterrent. On November 7, 1775, the death penalty was added for espionage to the Articles of War, but the clause was not applied retroactively, and Dr. Church escaped execution.\n\nOn August 21, 1776, the Committee's report was considered by the Congress, which enacted the first espionage act:\n\nRESOLVED, That all persons not members of, nor owing allegiance to, any of the United States of America, as described in a resolution to the Congress of the 29th of June last, who shall be found lurking as spies in or about the fortification or encampments of the armies of the United States, or of any of them, shall suffer death, according to the law and usage of nations, by sentence of a court martial, or such other punishment as such court martial may direct.\n\nIt was resolved further that the act \"be printed at the end of the rules and articles of war.\" On February 27, 1778, the law was broadened to include any \"inhabitants of these states\" whose intelligence activities aided the enemy in capturing or killing revolutionary forces.\n\nThe Committee of Secret Correspondence insisted that matters pertaining to the funding and instruction of intelligence agents be held within the Committee. In calling for the Committee members to \"lay their proceedings before Congress,\" the Congress, by resolution, authorized \"withholding the names of the persons they have employed, or with whom they have corresponded.\" On May 20, 1776, when the Committee's proceedings—with the sensitive names removed—were finally read in the Congress, it was \"under the injunction of secrecy.\" The Continental Congress, recognizing the need for secrecy in regard to foreign intelligence, foreign alliances and military matters, maintained \"Secret Journals,\" apart from its public journals, to record its decisions in such matters.\n\nOn November 9, 1775, the Continental Congress adopted its own oath of secrecy, one more stringent than the oaths of secrecy it would require of others in sensitive employment:\n\nRESOLVED, That every member of this Congress considers himself under the ties of virtue, honour and love of his country, not to divulge, directly or indirectly, any matter or thing agitated or debated in Congress, before the same shaft have been determined, without the leave of the Congress: nor any matter or thing determined in Congress, which a majority of the Congress shall order to be kept secret, And that if any member shall violate this agreement, he shall be expelled this Congress, and deemed an enemy to the liberties of America, and liable to be treated as such, and that every member signify his consent to this agreement by signing the same.\n\nOn June 12, 1776, the Continental Congress adopted the first secrecy agreement for employees of the new government. The required oath read:\n\nI do solemnly swear, that I will not directly or indirectly divulge any manner or thing which shall come to my knowledge as (clerk, secretary) of the board of War and Ordnance for the United Colonies. . . So help me God.\n\nThe Continental Congress, sensitive to the vulnerability of its covert allies, respected their desire for strict secrecy. Even after France's declaration of war against England, the fact of French involvement prior to that time remained a state secret. When Thomas Paine, in a series of letters to the press in 1777, divulged details of the secret aid from the files of the Committee of Foreign Affairs (formerly, the Committee of Secret Correspondence), France's Minister to the United States, Conrad Alexander Gerard, protested to the president of the Congress that Paine's indiscreet assertions \"bring into question the dignity and reputation of the King, my master, and that of the United States.\" Congress dismissed Paine, and by public resolution denied having received such aid, resolving that \"His Most Christian Majesty, the great and generous ally of the United States, did not preface his alliance with any supplies whatever sent to America.\"\n\nIn 1779, George Washington and John Jay, the president of the Continental Congress and a close associate of the Commander in Chief's on intelligence matters, disagreed about the effect disclosure of some intelligence would have on sources and methods. Washington wanted to publicize certain encouraging information that he judged would give \"a certain spring to our affairs\" and bolster public morale. Jay replied that the intelligence \"is unfortunately of such a Nature, or rather so circumstanced, as to render Secrecy necessary.\" Jay prevailed.\n\nRobert Townsend, an important American agent in the British-occupied city of New York, used the guise of being a merchant, as did Silas Deane when he was sent to France by the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Townsend was usually referred to by his cover name of \"Culper, Junior.\" When Major Benjamin Tallmadge, who directed Townsend's espionage work, insisted that he disengage himself from his cover business to devote more time to intelligence gathering, General Washington overruled him: \n\nit is not my opinion that Culper Junior should be advised to give up his present employment. I would imagine that with a little industry he will be able to carry on his intelligence with greater security to himself and greater advantages to us, under the cover of his usual business. . .. it prevents also those suspicions which would become natural should he throw himself out of the line of his present employment. \n\nTownsend also was the silent partner of a coffee house frequented by British officers, an ideal place for hearing loose talk that was of value to the American cause.\n\nMajor John Clark's agents in and around British-controlled Philadelphia used several covers (farmer, peddler, and smuggler, among others) so effectively that only one or two operatives may have been detained. The agents traveled freely in and out of Philadelphia and passed intelligence to Washington about British troops, fortifications, and supplies, and of a planned surprise attack.\n\nEnoch Crosby, a counterintelligence officer, posed as an unsuspecting shoemaker (his civilian trade) to travel through southern New York state while infiltrating Loyalist cells. After the Tories started to suspect him when he kept \"escaping\" from the Americans, Crosby's superiors moved him to Albany, New York, where he resumed his undercover espionage.\n\nJohn Honeyman, an Irish weaver who had offered to spy for the Americans, used several covers (butcher, Tory, British agent) to collect intelligence on British military activities in New Jersey. He participated in a deception operation that left the Hessians in Trenton unprepared for Washington's attack across the Delaware River on December 26, 1776.\n\nIn January 1778, Nancy Morgan Hart, who was tall, muscular, and cross-eyed, disguised herself as a \"touched\" or emotionally disturbed man, and entered Augusta, Georgia, to obtain intelligence on British defenses. Her mission was a success. Later, when a group of Tories attacked her home to gain revenge, she captured them all and was witness to their execution.\n\nIn June 1778, General Washington instructed Henry \"Light Horse Harry\" Lee to send an agent into the British fort at Stony Point, New York, to gather intelligence on the exact size of the garrison and the progress it was making in building defenses. Captain Allan McLane took the assignment. Dressing himself as a country bumpkin and utilizing the cover of escorting a Mrs. Smith into the fort to see her sons, McLane spent two weeks collecting intelligence within the British fort and returned safely.\n\nWhile serving in Paris as an agent of the Committee of Secret Correspondence, Silas Deane is known to have used a heat-developing invisible ink—a compound of cobalt chloride, glycerine and water—for some of his intelligence reports back to America. Even more useful to him later was a \"sympathetic stain\" created for secret communications by James Jay, a physician and the brother of John Jay. Dr. Jay, who had been knighted by George III, used the \"stain\" for reporting military information from London to America. Later he supplied quantities of the stain to George Washington at home and to Silas Deane in Paris.\n\nThe stain required one chemical for writing the message and a second to develop it, affording greater security than the ink used by Deane earlier. Once, in a letter to John Jay, Robert Morris spoke of an innocuous letter from \"Timothy Jones\" (Deane) and the \"concealed beauties therein,\" noting \"the cursory examinations of a sea captain would never discover them, but transferred from his hand to the penetrating eye of a Jay, the diamonds stand confessed at once.\"\n\nWashington instructed his agents in the use of the \"sympathetic stain,\" noting in connection with \"Culper Junior\" that the ink \"will not only render his communications less exposed to detection, but relieve the fears of such persons as may be entrusted in its conveyance.\" Washington suggested that reports could be written in the invisible ink \"on the blank leaves of a pamphlet. . . a common pocket book, or on the blank leaves at each end of registers, almanacks, or any publication or book of small value.\"\n\nWashington especially recommended that agents conceal their reports by using the ink in correspondence: \"A much better way is to write a letter in the Tory stile with some mixture of family matters and between the lines and on the remaining part of the sheet communicate with the Stain the intended intelligence.\"\n\nEven though the Patriots took great care to write sensitive messages in invisible ink, or in code or cipher, it is estimated that the British intercepted and decrypted over half of America's secret correspondence during the war.\n\nAmerican Revolutionary leaders used various methods of cryptography to conceal diplomatic, military, and personal messages.\n\nJohn Jay and Arthur Lee devised dictionary codes in which numbers referred to the page and line in an agreed-upon dictionary edition where the plaintext (unencrypted message) could be found.\n\nIn 1775, Charles Dumas designed the first diplomatic cipher that the Continental Congress and Benjamin Franklin used to communicate with agents and ministers in Europe. Dumas's system substituted numbers for letters in the order in which they appeared in a preselected paragraph of French prose containing 682 symbols. This method was more secure than the standard alphanumeric substitution system, in which a through z are replaced with 1 through 26, because each letter in the plain text could be replaced with more than one number.\n\nThe Culper Spy Ring used a numerical substitution code developed by Major Benjamin Tallmadge, the network's leader. The Ring began using the code after the British captured some papers indicating that some Americans around New York were using \"sympathetic stain.\" Tallmadge took several hundred words from a dictionary and several dozen names of people or places and assigned each a number from 1 to 763. For example, 38 meant attack, 192 stood for fort, George Washington was identified as 711, and New York was replaced by 727. An American agent posing as a deliveryman transmitted the messages to other members of the Ring. One of them, Anna Strong (spy), signaled the message's location with a code involving laundry hung out to dry. A black petticoat indicated that a message was ready to be picked up, and the number of handkerchiefs identified the cove on Long Island Sound where the agents would meet. By the end of the war, several prominent Americans—among them Robert Morris, John Jay, Robert Livingston, and John Adams—were using other versions of numerical substitution codes.\n\nThe Patriots had two notable successes in breaking British ciphers. In 1775, Elbridge Gerry and the team of Elisha Porter and the Rev. Samuel West, working separately at Washington's direction, decrypted a letter that implicated Dr. Benjamin Church, the Continental Army's chief surgeon, in espionage for the British.\n\nIn 1781, James Lovell, who designed cipher systems used by several prominent Americans, determined the encryption method that British commanders used to communicate with each other. When a dispatch from Lord Cornwallis in Yorktown, Virginia, to General Henry Clinton in New York was intercepted, Lovell's cryptanalysis enabled Washington to gauge how desperate Cornwallis's situation was and to time his attack on the British lines. Soon after, another decrypt by Lovell provided warning to the French fleet off Yorktown that a British relief expedition was approaching. The French scared off the British flotilla, sealing victory for the Americans.\n\nThe Continental Congress regularly received quantities of intercepted British and Tory mail. On November 20, 1775, it received some intercepted letters from Cork, Ireland, and appointed a committee made up of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Johnson, Robert Livingston, Edward Rutledge, James Wilson and George Wythe \"to select such parts of them as may be proper to publish.\" The Congress later ordered a thousand copies of the portions selected by the Committee to be printed and distributed. A month later, when another batch of intercepted mail was received, a second committee was appointed to examine it. Based on its report, the Congress resolved that \"the contents of the intercepted letters this day read, and the steps which Congress may take in consequence of said intelligence thereby given, be kept secret until further orders.\" By early 1776, abuses were noted in the practice, and Congress resolved that only the councils or committees of safety of each colony, and their designees, could henceforth open the mail or detain any letters from the post.\n\nWhen Moses Harris reported that the British had recruited him as a courier for their Secret Service, General Washington proposed that General Schuyler \"contrive a means of opening them without breaking the seals, take copies of the contents, and then let them go on. By these means we should become masters of the whole plot.\" From that point on, Washington was privy to British intelligence pouches between New York and Canada.\n\nDr. James Jay used the advanced technology of his time in creating the invaluable \"sympathetic stain\" used for secret communications. Perhaps the American Patriots' most advanced application of technology was in David Bushnell's \"Turtle\", a one-man submarine created for affixing watchwork-timed explosive charges to the bottom of enemy ships.\n\nThe \"turtle,\" now credited with being the first use of the submarine in warfare, was an oaken chamber about five-and-a-half feet (1.6 m) wide and seven feet (2.1 m) high. It was propelled by a front-mounted, pedal-powered propeller at a speed of up to three miles per hour (5 km/h), had a barometer to read depth, a pump to raise or lower the submarine through the water, and provision for both lead and water ballast.\n\nWhen Bushnell learned that the candle used to illuminate instruments inside the \"turtle\" consumed the oxygen in its air supply, he turned to Benjamin Franklin for help. The solution: the phosphorescent weed, foxfire. Heavy tides thwarted the first sabotage operation. A copper-clad hull which could not be penetrated by the submarine's auger foiled the second. (The \"turtle\" did blow up a nearby schooner, however.) The secret weapon would almost certainly have achieved success against a warship if it had not gone to the bottom of the Hudson River when the mother ship to which it was moored was sunk by the British in October 1776.\n\nAn early device developed for concealing intelligence reports when traveling by water was a simple weighted bottle that could be dropped overboard if there was a threat of capture. This was replaced by a wafer-thin leaden container in which a message was sealed. It would sink in water, and melt in fire, and could be used by agents on land or water. It had one drawback—lead poisoning if it was swallowed. It was replaced by a silver, bullet-shaped container that could be unscrewed to hold a message and which would not poison a courier who might be forced to swallow it.\n\nOn May 29, 1775, the Continental Congress received the first of many intelligence estimates prepared in response to questions it posed to military commanders. The report estimated the size of the enemy force to be encountered in an attack on New York, the number of Continental troops needed to meet it, and the kind of force needed to defend the other New England colonies.\n\nAn example of George Washington's interest in intelligence analysis and estimates can be found in instructions he wrote to General Putnam in August 1777:\"Deserters and people of that class always speak of number. ... Indeed, scarce any person can form a judgement unless he sees the troops paraded and can count the divisions. But, if you can by any means obtain a list of the regiments left upon the island, we can compute the number of men within a few hundreds, over or under.\" On another occasion, in thanking James Lovell for a piece of intelligence, Washington wrote: \"It is by comparing a variety of information, we are frequently enabled to investigate facts, which were so intricate or hidden, that no single clue could have led to the knowledge of them. ... Intelligence becomes interesting which but from its connection and collateral circumstances, would not be important.\"\n\nColonel David Henley, Washington's intelligence chief for a short period in 1778, received these instructions when he wrote to Washington for guidance: \"Besides communicating your information as it arises. ... you might make out a table or something in the way of columns, under which you might range, their magazines of forage, grain and the like, the different corps and regiments, the Works, where thrown up, their connexion, kind and extent, the officers commanding, with the numbers of guns &ca. &ca. This table should comprehend in one view all that can be learned from deserters, spies and persons who may come out from the enemy's boundaries.\" (It was common practice to interrogate travelers from such British strongholds as New York, Boston and Philadelphia.)\n\nGeorge Washington was a skilled manager of intelligence. He utilized agents behind enemy lines, recruited both Tory and Patriot sources, interrogated travelers for intelligence information, and launched scores of agents on both intelligence and counterintelligence missions. He was adept at deception operations and tradecraft and was a skilled propagandist. He also practiced sound operational security. \n\nAs an intelligence manager, Washington insisted that the terms of an agent's employment and his instructions be precise and in writing. He emphasized his desire for receiving written, rather than verbal, reports. He demanded repeatedly that intelligence reports be expedited, reminding his officers of those bits of intelligence he had received which had become valueless because of delay in getting them to him. He also recognized the need for developing many different sources so that their reports could be cross-checked, and so that the compromise of one source would not cut off the flow of intelligence from an important area.\n\nWashington sought and obtained a \"secret service fund\" from the Continental Congress, and expressed preference for specie, preferably gold: \"I have always found a difficulty in procuring intelligence by means of paper money, and I perceive it increases.\" In accounting for the sums in his journals, he did not identify the recipients: \"The names of persons who are employed within the Enemy's lines or who may fall within their power cannot be inserted.\"\n\nHe instructed his generals to \"leave no stone unturned, nor do not stick to expense\" in gathering intelligence, and urged that those employed for intelligence purposes be those \"upon whose firmness and fidelity we may safely rely.\"\n\nWashington retained full and final authority over Continental Army intelligence activities, but he delegated significant field responsibility to trusted officers. Although he regularly urged all his officers to be more active in collecting intelligence, Washington relied chiefly on his aides and specially designated officers to assist him in conducting intelligence operations. The first to assume this role appears to have been Joseph Reed, who fulfilled the duties of \"Secretary, Adjutant General and Quarter Master, besides doing a thousand other little Things which fell incidentally.\" A later successor to Reed was Alexander Hamilton, who is known to have been deeply involved with the Commander-in-Chief's intelligence operations, including developing reports received in secret writing and investigating a suspected double agent.\n\nWhen Elias Boudinot was appointed Commissary General of Prisoners, responsible for screening captured soldiers and for dealing with the British concerning American patriots whom they held prisoner, Washington recognized that the post offered \"better opportunities than most other officers in the army, to obtain knowledge of the Enemy's Situation, motions and... designs,\" and added to Boudinot's responsibilities \"the procuring of intelligence.\" In 1778, Washington selected Brigadier General Charles Scott of Virginia as his \"intelligence chief.\" When personal considerations made it necessary for Scott to step down, Washington appointed Colonel David Henley to the post temporarily, and then assigned it to Major Benjamin Tallmadge. Tallmadge combined reconnaissance with clandestine visits into British territory to recruit agents, and he attained distinction for his conduct of the Culper Ring operating out of New York.\n\nIn 1776, George Washington picked Thomas Knowlton to command the Continental Army's first intelligence unit, known as \"Knowlton's Rangers.\" Intelligence failure during the battle of Long Island convinced Washington that he needed an elite detachment dedicated to reconnaissance that reported directly to him. Knowlton, who had served in a similar unit during the French and Indian War, led 130 men and 20 officers—all hand-picked volunteers—on a variety of secret missions that were too dangerous for regular troops to conduct. The date 1776 on the seal of the Army's intelligence service today refers to the formation of Knowlton's Rangers.\n\nOther intelligence officers who served with distinction during the War of Independence included Captain Eli Leavenworth, Major Alexander Clough, Colonel Elias Dayton, Major John Clark, Major Allan McLane, Captain Charles Craig and General Thomas Mifflin.\n\nThe first Patriot intelligence network on record was a secret group in Boston known as the Mechanics, which meant skilled workers. The group, also known as the Liberty Boys, apparently grew out of the old Sons of Liberty organization that had successfully opposed the Stamp Act. The Mechanics organized resistance to British authority and gathered intelligence. In the words of one of its members, Paul Revere, \"in the Fall of 1774 and winter of 1775, I was one of upwards of thirty, chiefly mechanics, who formed ourselves into a Committee for the purpose of watching British soldiers and gaining every intelligence on the movements of the Tories.\" According to Revere, \"We frequently took turns, two and two, to watch the (British) soldiers by patrolling the streets all night.\"\n\nIn addition, the Mechanics sabotaged and stole British military equipment in Boston. Their security practices, however, were amateurish. They met in the same place regularly (the Green Dragon Tavern), and one of their leaders (Dr. Benjamin Church) was a British agent.\n\nThrough their intelligence sources, the Mechanics were able to see through the cover story the British had devised to mask their march on Lexington and Concord. Dr. Joseph Warren, chairman of the Committee of Safety, charged Revere with the task of warning Samuel Adams and John Hancock at Lexington, Massachusetts, that they were the probable targets of the enemy operation. Revere arranged for the warning lanterns to be hung in Old North Church to alert patriot forces at Charlestown, and then set off on his famous ride. He completed his primary mission of notifying Adams and Hancock. Then Revere, along with Dr. Samuel Prescott and William Dawes, rode on to alert Concord, only to be apprehended by the British en route. Dawes got away, and Dr. Prescott managed to escape soon afterward and to alert the Patriots at Concord. Revere was interrogated and subsequently released, after which he returned to Lexington to warn Hancock and Adams of the proximity of British forces.\n\nRevere then turned to another mission, retrieving from the local tavern a trunk belonging to Hancock and filled with incriminating papers. With John Lowell, Revere went to the tavern and, as he put it, during \"a continual roar of Musquetry... we made off with the Trunk.\"\n\nPaul Revere had served as a courier prior to his \"midnight ride\" and continued to do so during the early years of the war. One of his earlier missions was perhaps as important as the Lexington ride. In December 1774, Revere rode to the Oyster River in New Hampshire with a report that the British, under General Thomas Gage, intended to seize Fort William and Mary. Armed with this intelligence, Major John Sullivan of the colonial militia led a force of four hundred men in an attack on the fort. The one hundred barrels of gunpowder taken in the raid were ultimately used by the Patriots to cover their retreat from Bunker Hill.\n\nNathan Hale is probably the best known but least successful American agent in the War of Independence. He embarked on his espionage mission into British-held New York as a volunteer, impelled by a strong sense of patriotism and duty. Before leaving on the mission he reportedly told a fellow officer: \"I am not influenced by the expectation of promotion or pecuniary award; I wish to be useful, and every kind of service necessary to the public good becomes honorable by being necessary. If the exigencies of my country demand a peculiar service, its claims to perform that service are imperious.\"\n\nBut dedication was not enough. Captain Hale had no training experience, no contacts in New York, no channels of communication, and no cover story to explain his absence from camp—only his Yale diploma supported his contention that he was a \"Dutch schoolmaster.\" He was captured while trying to slip out of New York, was convicted as a spy and went to the gallows on September 22, 1776. Witnesses to the execution reported the dying words that gained him immortality (a paraphrase of a line from Joseph Addison's play \"Cato\"): \"I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country.\" After he was accused of being a spy he stated his name, rank, and his reason for being there. He gave a soldier a letter to his family, which was ripped up. He asked to see a bible and was denied the right.\n\nThe same day that Nathan Hale was executed in New York, British authorities arrested another Patriot and charged him with being a spy. Haym Salomon was a recent Jewish immigrant who worked as a stay-behind agent after Washington evacuated New York City in September 1776. Salomon was arrested in a round-up of suspected Patriot sympathizers and was confined to Sugar House Prison. He spoke several European languages and was soon released to the custody of General von Heister, commander of Hessian mercenaries, who needed someone who could serve as a German language interpreter in the Hessian commissary department. While in German custody, Salomon induced a number of the German troops to resign or desert.\n\nEventually paroled, Salomon did not flee to Philadelphia as had many of his New York business associates. He continued to serve as an undercover agent and used his personal finances to assist American patriots held prisoner in New York. He was arrested again in August 1778, accused this time of being an accomplice in a plot to burn the British fleet and to destroy His Majesty's warehouses in the city. Salomon was condemned to death for sabotage, but he bribed his guard while awaiting execution and escaped to Philadelphia. There he came into the open in the role for which he is best known, as an important financier of the Revolution.\n\nLess than a year after Nathan Hale was executed, another American agent went to the gallows in New York. On June 13, 1777, General Washington wrote the President of Congress: \"You will observe by the New York paper, the execution of Abm. (Abraham) Patten. His family deserves the generous Notice of Congress. He conducted himself with great fidelity to our Cause rendering Services and has fallen a Sacrifice in promoting her interest. Perhaps a public act of generosity, considering the character he was in, might not be so eligible as a private donation.\"\n\n\"Most accurate and explicit intelligence\" resulted from the work of Abraham Woodhull on Long Island and Robert Townsend in British-occupied New York City. Their operation, known as the Culper Ring from the operational names used by Woodhull (Culper Sr.) and Townsend (Culper Jr.), effectively used such intelligence tradecraft as codes, ciphers and secret ink for communications; a series of couriers and whaleboats to transmit reporting; at least one secret safe house, and numerous sources. The network was particularly effective in picking up valuable information from careless conversation wherever the British and their sympathizers gathered.\n\nOne female member of the Culper Ring, known only by her codename \"355,\" was arrested shortly after Benedict Arnold's defection in 1780 and evidently died in captivity. Details of her background are unknown, but 355 (the number meant \"lady\" in the Culper code) may have come from a prominent Tory family with access to British commanders and probably reported on their activities and personalities. She was one of several females around the debonaire Major André, who enjoyed the company of young, attractive, and intelligent women. Abraham Woodhull, 355's recruiter, praised her espionage work, saying that she was \"one who hath been ever serviceable to this correspondence.\" Arnold questioned all of André's associates after his execution in October 1780 and grew suspicious when the pregnant 355 refused to identify her paramour. She was incarcerated on the squalid prison ship \"Jersey\", moored in the East River. There she gave birth to a son and then died without disclosing that she had a common-law husband – Robert Townsend, after whom the child was named.\n\nOne controversial American agent in New York was the King's Printer, James Rivington. His coffee house, a favorite gathering place for the British, was a principal source of information for Culper Jr. (Townsend), who was a silent partner in the endeavor. George Washington Parke Custis suggests that Rivington's motive for aiding the patriot cause was purely monetary. Custis notes that Rivington, nevertheless, \"proved faithful to his bargain, and often would provide intelligence of great importance gleaned in convivial moments at Sir William's or Sir Henry's table, be in the American camp before the convivialists had slept off the effects of their wine. The King's printer would probably have been the last man suspected, for during the whole of his connection with the secret service his Royal Gazette piled abuse of every sort upon the cause of the American general and the cause of America.\" Rivington's greatest espionage achievement was acquiring the Royal Navy's signal book in 1781. That intelligence helped the French fleet repel a British flotilla trying to relieve General Cornwallis at Yorktown.\n\nHercules Mulligan was a textile importer and ran a clothing shop that was also frequented by British officers in occupied New York. The Irish immigrant was a genial host, and animated conversation typified a visit to his emporium. Mulligan was the first to alert Washington to two British plans to capture the American Commander-in-Chief and to a planned incursion into Pennsylvania. Besides being an American agent, Mulligan also was a British counterintelligence failure. Before he went underground as an agent, he had been an active member of the Sons of Liberty and the New York Committees of Correspondence and Observation, local Patriot intelligence groups. Mulligan had participated in acts of rebellion, and his name had appeared on Patriot broadsides distributed in New York as late as 1776. But every time he fell under suspicion, the popular Irishman used his gift of \"blarney\" to talk his way out of it. The British evidently never learned that Alexander Hamilton, Washington's aide-de-camp, had lived in the Mulligan home while attending King's College, and had recruited Mulligan and possibly Mulligan's brother, a banker and merchant who handled British accounts, for espionage. Mulligan was assisted by his slave, Cato, who performed dangerous assignments as a courier.\n\nLieutenant Lewis J. Costigin, walked the streets of New York freely in his Continental Army uniform as he collected intelligence. Costigin had originally been sent to New York as a prisoner and was eventually paroled under oath not to attempt escape or communicate intelligence. In September 1778, he was designated for prisoner exchange and freed of his parole oath. But he did not leave New York, and until January 1779 he roamed the city in his American uniform, gathering intelligence on British commanders, troop deployments, shipping, and logistics while giving the impression of still being a paroled prisoner.\n\nOn May 15, 1780, General Washington instructed General Heath to send intelligence agents into Canada. He asked that they be those \"upon whose firmness and fidelity we may safely rely,\" and that they collect \"exact\" information about Halifax in support of a French requirement for information on the British defense works there. Washington suggested that qualified draftsmen be sent. James Bowdoin, who later became the first president of the American Academy of Arts and Science, fulfilled the intelligence mission, providing detailed plans of Halifax harbor, including specific military works and even water depths.\n\nIn August 1782, General Washington created the Badge of Military Merit, to be issued \"whenever any singularly meritorious action is performed... not only instances of unusual gallantry, but also of extraordinary fidelity and essential service in any way.\" Through the award, said Washington, \"the road to glory in a Patriot army and a free country is thus open to all.\" The following June, the honor was bestowed on Sergeant Daniel Bissell, who had \"deserted\" from the Continental Army, infiltrated New York, posed as a Tory, and joined Benedict Arnold's \"American Legion.\" For over a year, Bissell gathered information on British fortifications, making a detailed study of British methods of operation, before escaping to American lines.\n\nDominique L'Eclise, a Canadian who served as an intelligence agent for General Schuyler, had been detected and imprisoned and had all his property confiscated. After being informed by General Washington of the agent's plight, the Continental Congress on October 23, 1778, granted $600 to pay L'Eclise's debts and $60, plus one ration a day \"during the pleasure of Congress,\" as compensation for his contribution to the American cause.\n\nFamily legend contributes the colorful but uncorroborated story of Lydia Darragh and her listening post for eavesdropping on the British. Officers of the British force occupying Philadelphia chose to use a large upstairs room in the Darragh house for conferences. When they did, Mrs. Darragh would slip into an adjoining closet and take notes on the enemy's military plans. Her husband, William, would transcribe the intelligence in a form of shorthand on tiny slips of paper that Lydia would then position on a button mold before covering it with fabric. The message-bearing buttons were then sewn onto the coat of her fourteen-year-old son, John, who would then be sent to visit his elder brother, Lieutenant Charles Darragh, of the American forces outside the city. Charles would snip off the buttons and transcribe the shorthand notes into readable form for presentation to his officers.\n\nLydia Darragh is said to have concealed other intelligence in a sewing-needle packet which she carried in her purse when she passed through British lines. Some espionage historians have questioned the credibility of the best-known story of Darragh's espionage: that she supposedly overheard British commanders planning a surprise night attack against Washington's army at Whitemarsh on December 4, 1777. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48364515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48364515", "title": "Juan Vicente Ugarte del Pino", "text": "Juan Vicente Ugarte del Pino\n\nJuan Vicente Ugarte del Pino (June 12, 1923 – October 6, 2015) was a Peruvian historian, jurist and lawyer. A judge and noted jurist, Ugarte del Pino was a member of the legal team which represented Peru before the International Court of Justice (ICJ) during a 2008 case over the Chilean–Peruvian maritime dispute.\n\nUgarte del Pino served as the dean of the Bar Association of Lima (\"Colegio de Abogados de Lima\") (CAL) from 1974 to 1975, which coincided with the dictatorship of President Juan Velasco Alvarado. Ugarte del Pino was a prominent critics of the erosion of the rule of law in Peru by Velasco. The Velasco government prosecuted and imprisoned Ugarte del Pino for counterrevolutionary crimes for his vocal opposition. Juan Velasco Alvarado was overthrown in 1975.\n\nVicente Ugarte del Pino was appointed to the Supreme Court of Peru in 1980. During his tenure on the Supreme Court, Ugarte del Pino served as the President of the Supreme Court's Criminal Chamber in 1986, President of the Supreme Court of Peru in 1987, and the President of the Supreme Court's Civil Chamber in 1989.\n\nIn 2008, the Peruvian government appointed Ugarte del Pino to the legal team which represented Peru at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague during its dispute with Chile over the ongoing Chilean–Peruvian maritime dispute. The case was known as \"Case Concerning Maritime Delimitation between the Republic of Peru and the Republic of Chile\", or simply Peru v. Chile. The ICJ issued its final ruling in January 2014, granting Peru some additional maritime territory.\n\nVicente Ugarte del Pino died in at the hospital Edgardo Rebagliati Martins in the district of Jesús María in Lima, Peru, on October 6, 2015, at the age of 92. His death was confirmed by Mario Amoretti, the present dean of CAL.\n"}
{"id": "3292909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3292909", "title": "Jōgen (Heian period)", "text": "Jōgen (Heian period)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3661758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3661758", "title": "Libertarian Marxism", "text": "Libertarian Marxism\n\nLibertarian Marxism refers to a broad scope of economic and political philosophies that emphasize the anti-authoritarian aspects of Marxism. Early currents of libertarian Marxism, known as left communism, emerged in opposition to Marxism–Leninism and its derivatives, such as Stalinism, Ceaușism and Maoism. Libertarian Marxism is also often critical of reformist positions, such as those held by social democrats. Libertarian Marxist currents often draw from Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels' later works, specifically the \"Grundrisse\" and \"The Civil War in France\"; emphasizing the Marxist belief in the ability of the working class to forge its own destiny without the need for a revolutionary party or state to mediate or aid its liberation. Along with anarchism, libertarian Marxism is one of the main currents of libertarian socialism.\n\nLibertarian Marxism includes such currents as council communism, De Leonism, Socialisme ou Barbarie, Lettrism/Situationism and workerism/autonomism and parts of the New Left. Libertarian Marxism has often had a strong influence on both post-left and social anarchists. Notable theorists of libertarian Marxism have included Anton Pannekoek, Raya Dunayevskaya, C. L. R. James, E. P. Thompson, Rosa Luxemburg, Antonio Negri, Cornelius Castoriadis, Maurice Brinton, Guy Debord, Daniel Guérin, Fredy Perlman, Ernesto Screpanti and Raoul Vaneigem.\n\nMarxism started to develop a libertarian strand of thought after specific circumstances. \"One does find early expressions of such perspectives in Morris and the Socialist Party of Great Britain (the SPGB), then again around the events of 1905, with the growing concern at the bureaucratisation and de-radicalisation of international socialism\". William Morris established the Socialist League in December 1884, which was encouraged by Friedrich Engels and Eleanor Marx. As the leading figure in the organization Morris embarked on a relentless series of speeches and talks on street corners, in working men's clubs and lecture theatres across England and Scotland. From 1887, anarchists began to outnumber Marxists in the Socialist League. The 3rd Annual Conference of the League held in London on 29 May 1887 marked the change, with a majority of the 24 branch delegates voting in favor of an anarchist-sponsored resolution declaring: \"This conference endorses the policy of abstention from parliamentary action, hitherto pursued by the League, and sees no sufficient reason for altering it\". Morris played peacemaker, but sided with the anti-parliamentarians, who won control of the League, which consequently lost the support of Engels and saw the departure of Eleanor Marx and her partner Edward Aveling to form the separate Bloomsbury Socialist Society.\n\nHowever, \"the most important ruptures are to be traced to the insurgency during and after the First World War. Disillusioned with the capitulation of the social democrats, excited by the emergence of workers' councils, and slowly distanced from Leninism, many communists came to reject the claims of socialist parties and to put their faith instead in the masses\". For these socialists, \"[t]he intuition of the masses in action can have more genius in it than the work of the greatest individual genius\". Luxemburg's workerism and spontaneism are exemplary of positions later taken up by the far-left of the period—Pannekoek, Roland Holst and Gorter in the Netherlands, Sylvia Pankhurst in Britain, Gramsci in Italy and Lukacs in Hungary. In these formulations, the dictatorship of the proletariat was to be the dictatorship of a class, \"not of a party or of a clique\". However, within this line of thought, \"[t]he tension between anti-vanguardism and vanguardism has frequently resolved itself in two diametrically opposed ways: the first involved a drift towards the party; the second saw a move towards the idea of complete proletarian spontaneity... The first course is exemplified most clearly in Gramsci and Lukacs... The second course is illustrated in the tendency, developing from the Dutch and German far-lefts, which inclined towards the complete eradication of the party form\".\n\nIn the emerging Soviet state, there appeared left-wing uprisings against the Bolsheviks which were a series of rebellions and uprisings against the Bolsheviks led or supported by left wing groups including Socialist Revolutionaries, Left Socialist Revolutionaries, Mensheviks and anarchists. Some were in support of the White Movement while some tried to be an independent force. The uprisings started in 1918 and continued through the Russian Civil War and after until 1922. In response, the Bolsheviks increasingly abandoned attempts to get these groups to join the government and suppressed them with force.\n\nFor \"many Marxian libertarian socialists, the political bankruptcy of socialist orthodoxy necessitated a theoretical break. This break took a number of forms. The Bordigists and the SPGB championed a super-Marxian intransigence in theoretical matters. Other socialists made a return 'behind Marx' to the anti-positivist programme of German idealism. Libertarian socialism has frequently linked its anti-authoritarian political aspirations with this theoretical differentiation from orthodoxy... Karl Korsch... remained a libertarian socialist for a large part of his life and because of the persistent urge towards theoretical openness in his work. Korsch rejected the eternal and static, and he was obsessed by the essential role of practice in a theory's truth. For Korsch, no theory could escape history, not even Marxism. In this vein, Korsch even credited the stimulus for Marx's \"Capital\" to the movement of the oppressed classes\".\n\nIn rejecting both capitalism and the state, some libertarian socialists align themselves with anarchists in opposition to both capitalist representative democracy and to authoritarian forms of Marxism. Although anarchists and Marxists share an ultimate goal of a stateless society, anarchists criticise most Marxists for advocating a transitional phase under which the state is used to achieve this aim. Nonetheless, libertarian Marxist tendencies such as autonomist Marxism and council communism have historically been intertwined with the anarchist movement. Anarchist movements have come into conflict with both capitalist and Marxist forces, sometimes at the same time, as in the Spanish Civil War, though as in that war Marxists themselves are often divided in support or opposition to anarchism. Other political persecutions under bureaucratic parties have resulted in a strong historical antagonism between anarchists and libertarian Marxists on the one hand and Leninist Marxists and their derivatives such as Maoists on the other. However, in recent history libertarian socialists have repeatedly formed temporary alliances with Marxist–Leninist groups in order to protest institutions they both reject. Part of this antagonism can be traced to the International Workingmen's Association, the First International, a congress of radical workers, where Mikhail Bakunin (who was fairly representative of anarchist views) and Karl Marx (whom anarchists accused of being an \"authoritarian\") came into conflict on various issues. Bakunin's viewpoint on the illegitimacy of the state as an institution and the role of electoral politics was starkly counterposed to Marx's views in the First International. Marx and Bakunin's disputes eventually led to Marx taking control of the First International and expelling Bakunin and his followers from the organization. This was the beginning of a long-running feud and schism between libertarian socialists and what they call \"authoritarian communists\", or alternatively just \"authoritarians\". Some Marxists have formulated views that closely resemble syndicalism and thus express more affinity with anarchist ideas. Several libertarian socialists, notably Noam Chomsky, believe that anarchism shares much in common with certain variants of Marxism such as the council communism of Marxist Anton Pannekoek. In Chomsky's \"Notes on Anarchism\", he suggests the possibility \"that some form of council communism is the natural form of revolutionary socialism in an industrial society. It reflects the belief that democracy is severely limited when the industrial system is controlled by any form of autocratic elite, whether of owners, managers, and technocrats, a 'vanguard' party, or a State bureaucracy\".\n\nIn the mid-20th century, some libertarian socialist groups emerged from disagreements with Trotskyism which presented itself as Leninist anti-Stalinism. As such, the French group Socialisme ou Barbarie emerged from the Trotskyist Fourth International, where Castoriadis and Claude Lefort constituted a Chaulieu–Montal Tendency in the French Parti Communiste Internationaliste in 1946. In 1948, they experienced their \"final disenchantment with Trotskyism\", leading them to break away to form Socialisme ou Barbarie, whose journal began appearing in March 1949. Castoriadis later said of this period that \"the main audience of the group and of the journal was formed by groups of the old, radical left: Bordigists, council communists, some anarchists and some offspring of the German 'left' of the 1920s\". In the United Kingdom, the group Solidarity was founded in 1960 by a small group of expelled members of the Trotskyist Socialist Labour League. Almost from the start, it was strongly influenced by the French Socialisme ou Barbarie group, in particular by its intellectual leader Cornelius Castoriadis, whose essays were among the many pamphlets Solidarity produced. The intellectual leader of the group was Chris Pallis (who wrote under the name Maurice Brinton).\n\nIn the People's Republic of China (PRC) since 1967, the terms \"ultra-left\" and \"left communist\" refers to political theory and practice self-defined as further \"left\" than that of the central Maoist leaders at the height of the GPCR (\"Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution\"). The terms are also used retroactively to describe some early 20th century Chinese anarchist orientations. As a slur, the Communist Party of China (CPC) has used the term \"ultra-left\" more broadly to denounce any orientation it considers further \"left\" than the party line. According to the latter usage, in 1978 the CPC Central Committee denounced as \"ultra-left\" the line of Mao Zedong from 1956 until his death in 1976. Ultra-left refers to those GPCR rebel positions that diverged from the central Maoist line by identifying an antagonistic contradiction between the CPC-PRC party-state itself and the masses of workers and \"peasants\" conceived as a single proletarian class divorced from any meaningful control over production or distribution. Whereas the central Maoist line maintained that the masses controlled the means of production through the party's mediation, the ultra-left argued that the objective interests of bureaucrats were structurally determined by the centralist state-form in direct opposition to the objective interests of the masses, regardless of however \"red\" a given bureaucrat's thought might be. Whereas the central Maoist leaders encouraged the masses to criticize reactionary \"ideas\" and \"habits\" among the alleged 5% of bad cadres, giving them a chance to \"turn over a new leaf\" after they had undergone \"thought reform\", the ultra-left argued that cultural revolution had to give way to political revolution \"in which one class overthrows another class\". The emergence of the New Left in the 1950s and 1960s led to a revival of interest in libertarian socialism. The New Left's critique of the Old Left's authoritarianism was associated with a strong interest in personal liberty, autonomy (see the thinking of Cornelius Castoriadis) and led to a rediscovery of older socialist traditions, such as left communism, council communism and the Industrial Workers of the World. The New Left also led to a revival of anarchism. Journals like \"Radical America\" and \"Black Mask\" in the United States, \"Solidarity\", \"Big Flame\" and \"Democracy & Nature\", succeeded by \"The International Journal of Inclusive Democracy\" in the United Kingdom, introduced a range of left libertarian ideas to a new generation.\n\nIn 1969, French platformist anarcho-communist Daniel Guérin published an essay called \"Libertarian Marxism?\" in which he dealt with the debate between Marx and Bakunin at the First International and afterwards suggested that \"[l]ibertarian marxism [\"sic\"] rejects determinism and fatalism, giving the greater place to individual will, intuition, imagination, reflex speeds, and to the deep instincts of the masses, which are more far-seeing in hours of crisis than the reasonings of the 'elites'; libertarian marxism [\"sic\"] thinks of the effects of surprise, provocation and boldness, refuses to be cluttered and paralysed by a heavy 'scientific' apparatus, doesn't equivocate or bluff, and guards itself from adventurism as much as from fear of the unknown\".\n\nAutonomist Marxism, neo-Marxism and situationist theory are also regarded as being anti-authoritarian variants of Marxism that are firmly within the libertarian socialist tradition. Related to this were intellectuals who were influenced by Italian left communist Amadeo Bordiga, but who disagreed with his Leninist positions, including Jacques Camatte, editor of the French publication \"Invariance\"; and Gilles Dauve, who published \"Troploin\" with Karl Nesic.\n\nDe Leonism, occasionally known as Marxism–De Leonism, is a form of syndicalist Marxism developed by Daniel De Leon. De Leon was an early leader of the first United States socialist political party, the Socialist Labor Party of America. De Leon combined the rising theories of syndicalism in his time with orthodox Marxism. According to De Leonist theory, militant industrial unions are the vehicle of class struggle. Industrial unions serving the interests of the proletariat will bring about the change needed to establish a socialist system. The only way this differs from some currents in anarcho-syndicalism is that—according to De Leonist thinking—a revolutionary political party is also necessary to fight for the proletariat on the political field.\n\nDe Leonism lies outside the Leninist tradition of communism. It predates Leninism as De Leonism's principles developed in the early 1890s with De Leon's assuming leadership of the Socialist Labor Party. Leninism and its vanguard party idea took shape after the 1902 publication of Lenin's \"What Is To Be Done?\". The highly decentralized and democratic nature of the proposed De Leonist government is in contrast to the democratic centralism of Marxism–Leninism and what they see as the dictatorial nature of the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China and other \"communist\" states. The success of the De Leonist plan depends on achieving majority support among the people both in the workplaces and at the polls, in contrast to the Leninist notion that a small vanguard party should lead the working class to carry out the revolution.\n\nCouncil communism was a radical left movement originating in Germany and the Netherlands in the 1920s. Its primary organization was the Communist Workers Party of Germany (KAPD). Council communism continues today as a theoretical and activist position within Marxism and also within libertarian socialism. The central argument of council communism, in contrast to those of social democracy and Leninist communism, is that workers' councils arising in the factories and municipalities are the natural and legitimate form of working class organisation and government power. This view is opposed to the reformist and Bolshevik stress on vanguard parties, parliaments, or the state.\n\nThe core principle of council communism is that the state and the economy should be managed by workers' councils, composed of delegates elected at workplaces and recallable at any moment. As such, council communists oppose state-run \"bureaucratic socialism\". They also oppose the idea of a \"revolutionary party\", since council communists believe that a revolution led by a party will necessarily produce a party dictatorship. Council communists support a workers' democracy, which they want to produce through a federation of workers' councils.\n\nThe Russian word for council is \"soviet\" and during the early years of the revolution workers' councils were politically significant in Russia. It was to take advantage of the aura of workplace power that the word became used by Lenin for various political organs. Indeed, the name Supreme Soviet, which the parliament was called and that of the Soviet Union itself, make use of this terminology, but they do not imply any decentralization.\n\nFurthermore, council communists held a critique of the Soviet Union as a capitalist state, believing that the Bolshevik revolution in Russia became a bourgeois revolution when a party bureaucracy replaced the old feudal aristocracy. Although most felt the Russian Revolution was working class in character, they believed that because capitalist relations still existed (i.e. the workers had no say in running the economy) the Soviet Union ended up as a state capitalist country, with the state replacing the individual capitalist. Thus council communists support workers' revolutions, but oppose one-party dictatorships.\n\nCouncil communists also believed in diminishing the role of the party to one of agitation and propaganda, rejected all participation in elections or parliament and argued that workers should leave the reactionary trade unions to form one big, revolutionary union.\n\nLeft communism describes the range of communist viewpoints held by the communist left, which criticizes the political ideas of the Bolsheviks at certain periods, from a position that is asserted to be more authentically Marxist and proletarian than the views of Leninism held by the Communist International after its first and during its second congress.\n\nAlthough she lived before left communism became a distinct tendency, Rosa Luxemburg has heavily influenced most left communists, both politically and theoretically. Proponents of left communism have included Amadeo Bordiga, Herman Gorter, Anton Pannekoek, Otto Rühle, Karl Korsch, Sylvia Pankhurst and Paul Mattick.\n\nProminent left communist groups existing today include the International Communist Current and the International Bureau for the Revolutionary Party. Different factions from the old Bordigist International Communist Party are also considered left communist organizations.\n\nTwo Marxist and Freudian psychoanalytic theorists have received the libertarian label or have been associated with it due to their emphasis on anti-authoritarianism and freedom issues.\n\nWilhelm Reich was an Austrian psychoanalyst, a member of the second generation of psychoanalysts after Sigmund Freud and one of the most radical figures in the history of psychiatry. He was the author of several influential books and essays, most notably \"Character Analysis\" (1933), \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\" (1933) and \"The Sexual Revolution\" (1936). His work on character contributed to the development of Anna Freud's \"The Ego and the Mechanisms of Defence\" (1936) and his idea of muscular armour—the expression of the personality in the way the body moves—shaped innovations such as body psychotherapy, Fritz Perls's Gestalt therapy, Alexander Lowen's bioenergetic analysis and Arthur Janov's primal therapy. His writing influenced generations of intellectuals—during the 1968 student uprisings in Paris and Berlin, students scrawled his name on walls and threw copies of \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\" at the police. On 23 August, six tons of his books, journals and papers were burned in the 25th Street public incinerator in New York, the Gansevoort incinerator. The burned material included copies of several of his books, including \"The Sexual Revolution\", \"Character Analysis\" and \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\". Though these had been published in German before Reich ever discussed orgone, he had added mention of it to the English editions, so they were caught by the injunction. As with the accumulators, the FDA was supposed only to observe the destruction. It has been cited as one of the worst examples of censorship in the United States. Reich became a consistent propagandist for sexual freedom going as far as opening free sex-counselling clinics in Vienna for working-class patients as well as coining the phrase \"sexual revolution\" in one of his books from the 1940s.\n\nOn the other hand, Herbert Marcuse was a German philosopher, sociologist and political theorist associated with the Frankfurt School of critical theory. His work \"Eros and Civilization\" (1955) discusses the social meaning of biology—history seen not as a class struggle, but a fight against repression of our instincts. It argues that \"advanced industrial society\" (modern capitalism) is preventing us from reaching a non-repressive society \"based on a fundamentally different experience of being, a fundamentally different relation between man and nature, and fundamentally different existential relations\". It contends that Freud's argument that repression is needed by civilization to persist is mistaken as Eros is liberating and constructive. Marcuse argues that \"the irreconcilable conflict is not between work (reality principle) and Eros (pleasure principle), but between alienated labour (performance principle) and Eros\". Sex is allowed for \"the betters\" (capitalists) and for workers only when not disturbing performance. Marcuse believes that a socialist society could be a society without needing the performance of the poor and without as strong a suppression of our sexual drives—it could replace alienated labor with \"non-alienated libidinal work\" resulting in \"a non-repressive civilization based on 'non-repressive sublimation'\". During the 1960s, Marcuse achieved world renown as \"the guru of the New Left\", publishing many articles and giving lectures and advice to student radicals all over the world. He travelled widely and his work was often discussed in the mass media, becoming one of the few American intellectuals to gain such attention. Never surrendering his revolutionary vision and commitments, Marcuse continued to his death to defend the Marxian theory and libertarian socialism.\n\nSocialisme ou Barbarie (\"Socialism or Barbarism\") was a French-based radical libertarian socialist group of the post-World War II period, whose name comes from a phrase Rosa Luxemburg used in her 1916 essay \"The Junius Pamphlet\". It existed from 1948 until 1965. The animating personality was Cornelius Castoriadis, also known as Pierre Chaulieu or Paul Cardan. The group originated in the Trotskyist Fourth International, where Castoriadis and Claude Lefort constituted a Chaulieu–Montal Tendency in the French Parti Communiste Internationaliste in 1946. In 1948, they experienced their \"final disenchantment with Trotskyism\", leading them to break away to form Socialisme ou Barbarie, whose journal began appearing in March 1949. Castoriadis later said of this period that \"the main audience of the group and of the journal was formed by groups of the old, radical left: Bordigists, council communists, some anarchists and some offspring of the German 'left' of the 1920s\". The group was composed of both intellectuals and workers and agreed with the idea that the main enemies of society were the bureaucracies which governed modern capitalism. They documented and analysed the struggle against that bureaucracy in the group's journal. As an example, the thirteenth issue (January–March 1954) was devoted to the East German revolt of June 1953 and the strikes which erupted amongst several sectors of French workers that summer. Following from the belief that what the working class was addressing in their daily struggles was the real content of socialism, the intellectuals encouraged the workers in the group to report on every aspect of their working lives.\n\nThe Situationist International (SI) was a restricted group of international revolutionaries founded in 1957 and which had its peak in its influence on the unprecedented general wildcat strikes of May 1968 in France.\n\nWith their ideas rooted in Marxism and the 20th century European artistic avant-gardes, they advocated experiences of life being alternative to those admitted by the capitalist order, for the fulfillment of human primitive desires and the pursuing of a superior passional quality. For this purpose they suggested and experimented with the construction of situations, namely the setting up of environments favorable for the fulfillment of such desires. Using methods drawn from the arts, they developed a series of experimental fields of study for the construction of such situations, like unitary urbanism and psychogeography.\n\nThey fought against the main obstacle on the fulfillment of such superior passional living, identified by them in advanced capitalism. Their theoretical work peaked on the highly influential book \"The Society of the Spectacle\" by Guy Debord. Debord argued in 1967 that spectacular features like mass media and advertising have a central role in an advanced capitalist society, which is to show a fake reality in order to mask the real capitalist degradation of human life. To overthrow such a system, the Situationist International supported the May 1968 revolts and asked the workers to occupy the factories and to run them with direct democracy through workers' councils composed by instantly revocable delegates.\n\nAfter publishing in the last issue of the magazine an analysis of the May 1968 revolts and the strategies that will need to be adopted in future revolutions, the SI was dissolved in 1972.\n\nSolidarity was a small libertarian socialist organisation from 1960 to 1992 in the United Kingdom. It published a magazine of the same name. Solidarity was close to council communism in its prescriptions and was known for its emphasis on workers' self-organisation and for its radical anti-Leninism. Solidarity was founded in 1960 by a small group of expelled members of the Trotskyist Socialist Labour League. It was initially known as Socialism Reaffirmed. The group published a journal, \"Agitator\", which after six issues was renamed \"Solidarity\", from which the organisation took its new name. Almost from the start it was strongly influenced by the French Socialisme ou Barbarie group, in particular by its intellectual leader Cornelius Castoriadis, whose essays were among the many pamphlets Solidarity produced. Solidarity existed as a nationwide organisation with groups in London and many other cities until 1981, when it imploded after a series of political disputes. The magazine \"Solidarity\" continued to be published by the London group until 1992—other former Solidarity members were behind \"Wildcat\" in Manchester and \"Here and Now\" magazine in Glasgow. The intellectual leader of the group was Chris Pallis, whose pamphlets (written under the name Maurice Brinton) included \"Paris May 1968\", \"The Bolsheviks and Workers' Control 1917-21\" and The Irrational in Politics. Other key Solidarity writers were Andy Anderson (author of \"Hungary 1956\"), Ken Weller (who wrote several pamphlets on industrial struggles and oversaw the group's Motor Bulletins on the car industry), Joe Jacobs (\"Out of the Ghetto\"), John Quail (\"The Slow-Burning Fuse\"), Phil Mailer (\"Portugal:The Impossible Revolution\") John King (\"The Political Economy of Marx\", \"A History of Marxian Economics\"), George Williamson (writing as James Finlayson, \"Urban Devastation - The Planning of Incarceration\"), David Lamb (\"Mutinies\") and Liz Willis (\"Women in the Spanish Revolution\").\n\nAutonomism refers to a set of left-wing political and social movements and theories close to the socialist movement. As an identifiable theoretical system, it first emerged in Italy in the 1960s from workerist (\"operaismo\") communism. Later, post-Marxist and anarchist tendencies became significant after influence from the Situationists, the failure of Italian far-left movements in the 1970s and the emergence of a number of important theorists including Antonio Negri, who had contributed to the 1969 founding of \"Potere Operaio\", Mario Tronti and Paolo Virno.\n\nThrough translations made available by Danilo Montaldi and others, the Italian autonomists drew upon previous activist research in the United States by the Johnson–Forest Tendency and in France by the group Socialisme ou Barbarie.\n\nIt influenced the German and Dutch Autonomen, the worldwide social centre movement and today is influential in Italy, France and to a lesser extent the English-speaking countries. Those who describe themselves as autonomists now vary from Marxists to post-structuralists and anarchists. The autonomist Marxist and autonomen movements provided inspiration to some on the revolutionary left in English speaking countries, particularly among anarchists, many of whom have adopted autonomist tactics. Some English-speaking anarchists even describe themselves as autonomists. The Italian \"operaismo\" (\"workerism\") movement also influenced Marxist academics such as Harry Cleaver, John Holloway, Steve Wright and Nick Dyer-Witheford.\n\nCommunization mainly refers to a contemporary communist theory in which we find is a \"mixing-up of insurrectionist anarchism, the communist ultra-left, postautonomists, anti-political currents, groups like the Invisible Committee, as well as more explicitly 'communizing' currents, such as \"Théorie Communiste\" and \"Endnotes\". Obviously at the heart of the word is communism and, as the shift to communization suggests, communism as a particular activity and process\".\n\nThe association of the term communization with a self-identified \"ultra-left\" was cemented in France in the 1970s, where it came to describe not a transition to a higher phase of communism, but a vision of communist revolution itself. Thus the 1975 Pamphlet \"A World Without Money\" states that \"insurrection and communisation are intimately linked. There would not be first a period of insurrection and then later, thanks to this insurrection, the transformation of social reality. The insurrectional process derives its force from communisation itself\".\n\nThe term is still used in this sense in France today and has spread into English usage as a result of the translation of texts by Gilles Dauvé and \"Théorie Comuniste\", two key figures in this tendency. However, in the late 1990s a close but not identical sense of \"communization\" was developed by the French post-situationist group Tiqqun. In keeping with their ultra-left predecessors, Tiqqun's predilection for the term seems to be its emphasis on communism as an immediate process rather than a far-off goal, but for Tiqqun it is no longer synonymous with \"the revolution\" considered as an historical event, but rather becomes identifiable with all sorts of activities—from squatting and setting up communes to simply \"sharing\"—that would typically be understood as \"pre-revolutionary\". From an ultra-left perspective such a politics of \"dropping-out\" or, as Tiqqun put it, \"desertion\"—setting up spaces and practices that are held to partially autonomous from capitalism—is typically dismissed as either naive or reactionary. Due to the popularity of the Tiqqun-related works \"Call\" and \"The Coming Insurrection\" in the United States anarchist circles it tended to be this latter sense of \"communization\" that was employed in U.S. anarchist and \"insurrectionist\" communiques, notably within the Californian student movement of 2009–2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8113702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8113702", "title": "Little Germany, Bradford", "text": "Little Germany, Bradford\n\nLittle Germany, Bradford, is an area of particular historical and architectural interest in central Bradford, West Yorkshire, England. The architecture is predominantly neoclassical in style with an Italian influence. Many individual buildings are listed and Little Germany is a Conservation Area.\n\nThe buildings within Little Germany date back to the 19th century, developing from 1855.\nThey are the legacy of merchants from mainland Europe, many of them Jewish, who spent large sums of money constructing imposing warehouses for the storage and sale of their goods for export. A large proportion of the merchants came from Germany hence the name Little Germany.\nBradford became more attractive as a centre of international trade in the aftermath of the Franco-Prussian War, which disrupted commercial relations between France and Germany.\n\nArchitectural practices included Milnes & France, Lockwood & Mawson, Andrews & Delaunay and J.T. Fairbank building in italianate style. An 1871 building by George Corson for Scottish clients is in Scottish baronial style. Caspian House (61 East Parade) was built in 1873, as the warehouse of D. Delius and Company; the senior partner in the business was the father of the composer Frederick Delius.\n\nLittle Germany is still one of Bradford's busiest commercial areas, with over 110 businesses and organisations with 3,000 workers. It attracts around 100,000 visitors each year. The local authority is currently promoting plans to regenerate the area by renovating and converting the interior of the old mills into housing, hotels, offices, whilst preserving the originally Victorian distinctive architecture.\n\nIn April 2012 retail giant Freeman Grattan Holdings, now a German-owned company, secured a deal to open a new head office and house around 300 staff in a Grade-II-listed former wool warehouse in Little Germany.\n\nLittle Germany is also the home of the Bradford Playhouse, which has a mural on the back of the building that commemorates the centenary of the founding of the Independent Labour Party in Bradford in 1893.\n\nHam Construction undertook the redevelopment of Eastbrook Hall in Little Germany. The project cost an estimated £11 million and converted the old building into 63 high-quality apartments as well some commercial usage on Leeds Road. The project included a refurbishment of the exterior and roof of the building which suffered extensive fire damage. The hall was built in 1903 and was originally used as a Methodist mission. The redevelopment was being funded through a public private sector funding agreement, as well as the Prince's Regeneration Trust. Work was finally completed in 2008, some months after the original projected finish date was set.\n\nThe Gatehaus is an 11-storey glass building recently constructed within the Little Germany district. Construction began in 2005 and was completed in 2007 with a total cost of £22 million. The project was originally proposed as a 17-storey landmark but was changed due to a rethink after suggestions that its height was incompatible with the surrounding Victorian buildings. The scheme was developed by Asquith Properties.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1115738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1115738", "title": "Long nineteenth century", "text": "Long nineteenth century\n\nThe long 19th century is a term coined for the period between the years 1789 and 1914 by Russian literary critic and author Ilya Ehrenburg and British Marxist historian and author Eric Hobsbawm. The concept is an adaption of Fernand Braudel's 1949 notion of \"le long seizième siècle\" (\"the long 16th century\" 1450–1640). and \"a recognized category of literary history\", although a period often broadly and diversely defined by different scholars. Numerous authors, before and after Hobsbawm's 1995 publication, have applied similar forms of book titles or descriptions to indicate a selective time frame for their works, such as: S. Kettering, \"French Society: 1589–1715 – the long seventeenth century\", E. Anthony Wrigley, \"British population during the ‘long’ eighteenth century, 1680–1840\", or D. Blackbourn, \"The long nineteenth century: A history of Germany, 1780–1918\".\nHowever, the term has been used in support of historical publications in order to \"connect with broader audiences\" and is regularly cited in studies and discussions across academic disciplines, such as history, linguistics and the arts.\n\nHobsbawm lays out his analysis in \"\" (1962), \"\" (1975), and \"\" (1987). Hobsbawn starts his long 19th century with the French Revolution, which sought to establish universal and egalitarian citizenship in France, and ends it with the outbreak of World War I, upon the conclusion of which in 1918 the long-enduring European power balance of the 19th century proper (1801–1900) was eliminated. In a sequel to the above-mentioned trilogy, \"The Age of Extremes: The Short Twentieth Century, 1914–1991\" (1994), Hobsbawm details the short 20th century beginning with World War I and ending with the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nA more generalized version of the long 19th century, lasting from 1750 to 1914, is often used by Peter N. Stearns in the context of the world history school.\n\nIn religious contexts, specifically those concerning the history of the Catholic Church, the long 19th century was a period of centralization of papal power over the Catholic Church. This centralization was in opposition to the increasingly centralized nation states and contemporary revolutionary movements and used many of the same organizational and communication techniques as its rivals. The church's long 19th century extended from the French Revolution (1789) until the death of Pope Pius XII (1958).\n\n"}
{"id": "100012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100012", "title": "Marc Okrand", "text": "Marc Okrand\n\nMarc Okrand (; born July 3, 1948) is an American linguist. His professional work is in Native American languages, and he is well known as the creator of the Klingon language in the \"Star Trek\" science fiction franchise.\n\nAs a linguist, Okrand worked with Native American languages. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1970. His 1977 doctoral dissertation from the University of California, Berkeley, was on the grammar of Mutsun, an extinct Ohlone language formerly spoken in the coastal areas of north-central California. His dissertation was supervised by pioneering linguist Mary Haas. From 1975 to 1978, he taught undergraduate linguistics courses at the University of California, Santa Barbara, before taking a post-doctoral fellowship at the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C., in 1978. \n\nAfter that, Okrand took a job at the National Captioning Institute, where he worked on the first closed-captioning system for hearing-impaired television viewers. Until his retirement in 2013, Okrand served as one of the directors for Live Captioning at the National Captioning Institute and as President of the board of directors of \"WSC Avant Bard\" (formerly the Washington Shakespeare Company) in Arlington, Virginia, which planned to stage \"an evening of Shakespeare in Klingon\" in 2010.\n\nWhile coordinating closed captioning for the Oscars award show in 1982, Okrand met the producer for the movie \"\". His first work was dubbing in Vulcan language dialogue for \"Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan\", since the actors had already been filmed talking in English. He was then hired by Paramount Pictures to develop the Klingon language and coach the actors using it in \"\", \"\", \"\". He was later hired for the use of the Romulan and Vulcan languages in the \"Star Trek\" film in 2009. He also created Klingon dialogue for that movie, but those scenes were cut. He was involved in \"Star Trek Into Darkness\", but only during post-production.\n\nOkrand is the author of three books about Klingon – \"The Klingon Dictionary\" (first published 1985, revised enlarged edition 1992), \"The Klingon Way\" (1996) and \"Klingon for the Galactic Traveler\" (1997), as well as two audio-courses: \"Conversational Klingon\" (1992) and \"Power Klingon\" (1993). He has also co-authored the libretto of an opera in the Klingon language: \"’u’\", debuting at The Hague in September 2010. The \"tlh\" sound that he incorporated into Klingon, unusual to speakers of English, is common North and Central American indigenous languages, in which it is usually transcribed as \"tl\", \"tł\" or \"ƛ\" (a voiceless alveolar affricate with lateral release); this is the sound at the end of the word \"Nahuatl\". He speaks Klingon, but notes that others have attained greater fluency.\n\nIn 2001, Okrand created another fictional language: Atlantean, for the Disney film \",\" for which he was also used as an early facial model for the protagonist's character design.\n\n"}
{"id": "1540383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1540383", "title": "Martin Classical Lectures", "text": "Martin Classical Lectures\n\nThe Martin Classical Lectures is a function of the Charles Beebe Martin Foundation established at Oberlin College in Ohio.\n\nCharles Beebe Martin was a professor of Classics and classical archaeology at the College from 1880 to 1925. The foundation was set up to honor his memory.\n\nLectures given at the foundation are collected and presented in volumes. Dates given are those of publication.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1786353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1786353", "title": "Michele Amari", "text": "Michele Amari\n\nMichele Amari (7 July 1806 – 16 July 1889) was an Italian patriot and historian.\n\nBorn at Palermo son of Ferdinando and Giulia Venturelli, he devoted a great part of his life to the history of Sicily. Amari was also an Orientalist, who investigated the true character of the Sicilian Vespers. He also served as the Italy's first minister of public education.\n\nAmari became an important figure during the Risorgimento. A liberal republican and carbonarist, who after the fall of Joachim Murat supported Sicilian secession. He became a link between Prime Minister Camillo Benso di Cavour and influential Sicilians, helping to convince them to support Italian unification. Amari did so expecting Cavour to grant Sicily some regional autonomy after unification.\n\nHe died at Florence in 1889.\n\nAmari's historical works focus on Medieval Sicilian history, including extensive works on the period of Muslim control. His efforts have earned him acknowledgment as one of 19th century Europe's premier translators of Medieval Arabic writings. His \"Storia dei Musulmani di Sicilia\" (History of the Muslims of Sicily, 1854) has been translated into many languages, including Arabic by a group of Egyptian scholars in 2004.\n\nHis translation from an arabic manuscript of a mirror for princes text, including a biography of its author, the medieval Sicilian Arab Ibn Zafar al Siqilli, was published in 1851. Richard Bentley translated Amari's Italian translation of this 12th century work by the so-called \"Machiavelli precursor\" into English and published it under the title \"Solwan, or Waters of Comfort\" in 1852.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18695381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18695381", "title": "Mohammad Ebrahim Bastani Parizi", "text": "Mohammad Ebrahim Bastani Parizi\n\nMohammad Ebrahim Bastani Parizi (, 12 December 1924 – 25 March 2014; born in Pariz) was an Iranian historian, translator, poet, essayist and author of non-fiction books. His numerous publications (over 50 books) are mostly popular reads on topics such as the history of Iran and the history of his hometown Kerman.\n"}
{"id": "2497179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497179", "title": "N-Town Plays", "text": "N-Town Plays\n\nThe N-Town Plays (also called the Hegge Cycle and the Ludus Coventriae cycle) are a cycle of 42 medieval Mystery plays from between 1450 and 1500.\n\nThe manuscript is now housed in the British Library, London (BL MS Cotton Vespasian D.8). As its name might suggest, though, it was once the property of the 17th-century antiquarian Sir Robert Bruce Cotton and was housed in his large library. Cotton's librarian, Richard James, quickly examined the manuscript and erroneously assumed that it contained the Biblical plays performed in Coventry during the 15th and 16th centuries, thus naming them the Ludus Coventriae or \"the Play Called Corpus Christi\". He was mistaken in both cases, but that mistake has proven very difficult to correct; the name Ludus Coventriae persists in the secondary and critical literature well into the 20th century. A further complication of the N-Town plays was made by Hardin Craig who, in his \"Medieval Drama\" (1955), called the collection the Hegge Plays after their former owner, Robert Hegge. The name Hegge Plays only briefly caught on, and the most common way to refer to these plays now is The N-Town Plays, after the reference in the last stanza of the opening proclamation that the play was to be played at \"N-Town\"; when the plays toured from town to town, N. (meaning nomen, the Latin for name) would be replaced by the name of the town the cycle was playing in at any given time.\n\nThe plays of the N-Town cycle vary from simple, almost liturgical, recitations of Biblical texts (as in the Moses play of the Ten Commandments, the Jesse play with its kings and prophets, and the Penetecost play) to highly complex and fast moving short dramas on Biblical themes that have a naturalism and liveliness (as in the Death of Herod and the Woman Taken in Adultery) almost unique in early drama. These plays can all be played from a wagon or a single booth stage. On the other hand, the two Mary Plays and the Passion Play were written for what is often called \"place and scaffold\" production in the round using \"scaffolds\" or raised stages and also the \"platea\" or the \"place\" between the stages.\n\nThe true nature of the manuscript has been hidden by the fact that the scribe arranged all the episodes in \"chronological order\" starting with Creation and ending with Judgment, simulating an episodic play presenting salvation history as in the two northern civic cycles from York and Chester. As he did this he buried the Mary Play inside the Nativity sequence and copied the Passion Play into place between the Raising of Lazarus and the Resurrection appearances. It has taken painstaking paleographic and codicologic examinations of the manuscript to determine what the scribe actually did. To further complicate the matter, at some point in the history of copying out these plays, the proclamation was attached to them. Although the proclamation does not match the plays that follow, someone, possibly the scribe of this manuscript, placed numbers in the margin of the text against incidents that correspond to the description of the \"pageants\" in the proclamation. This does not affect the single episode pageants but it breaks up the flow of the Passion Play and has obscured the very existence of the Mary Play for centuries.\n\nA final scribal feature of this manuscript is the stage directions which reflect a curious mixture of intent. They seem to be recording performance detail while, at the same time, facilitating the reading of the manuscript as a meditation text rather than using it as a text to be enacted. The stage directions are in Latin in the pageants, in the Mary Play they are a mix of English and Latin and in the Passion Play they are almost entirely in English. They seem to function as much as an aid to help a reader visualise the action as actual practical instructions to a director. The details of costume and action in the stage directions in the Passion Play suggest a description of an actual performance. The liturgical music is specified in the Mary Play and Assumption Play by including the opening words of each piece or the \"incipit\" in the stage directions. On the other hand, the stage directions in many of the pageants are quite laconic.\n\nAll scholars who have worked with this manuscript agree that it belongs in the east Midlands. Some attempt has been made to place it as far north as Lincoln (it was even called the Lincoln cycle by some scholars for a period and is still performed in the shadow of Lincoln Cathedral), but the general consensus places the manuscript in East Anglia. Stephen Spector cautiously writes \"The linguistic evidence indicates that the codex was recorded principally or exclusively by scribes trained in East Anglia\" (Spector, xxix) Meredith more positively asserts that The Mary Play comes from Norfolk (Meredith, 6). However, since the eclectic nature of the MS. has been recognised, scholars have been hesitant to insist that all the plays copied into this anthology were played in the same place.\n\nThe date \"1468\" appears in the hand of the major scribe at the end of the Purification play (f 100v). This, then, is the earliest possible date for the copying of the text. Spector has concluded on the basis of dialectal evidence that the plays cannot predate 1425 and on the basis of the watermarks on the paper that the paper used by the main scribe comes from the period 1460–77. It is possible, again on the basis of the paper, that the Assumption play, written separately by a different scribe and bound into the main MS., was copied slightly earlier. We are safe to assume that the MS. dates from the second half of the third quarter (ca. 1463–75) of the 15th century. This makes it the oldest MS. to contain a large number of Biblical plays. Although we know there were plays performed elsewhere from the late 14th century, the York manuscript was written down in the 1470s, the Towneley MS. after the turn of the 16th century and all the versions of the Chester plays after 1596.\n\nThe majority of the plays that make up the N-Town Cycle are based (some rather tenuously) on the Bible, while the others are taken from Roman Catholic legend, apocryphal sources and folk tradition. The Marian plays place a strong emphasis on the early life of the Virgin, as well as on the relationship between her and Joseph (which plays heavily upon the popular medieval old man with a younger wife trope). The Trial of Mary and Joseph play has been identified as a pastiche of the East Anglian ecclesiastical court system.\n\n\nSome recent published editions of the N-town plays include:\n\n\nA facsimile of the manuscript from the British Library was also published: \"The N-Town Plays: a facsimile of British Library MS Cotton Vespasian D VIII\". Ed. Peter Meredith and Stanley J. Kahrl. Leeds: University of Leeds School of English, 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "9691852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9691852", "title": "Naaran", "text": "Naaran\n\nNaaran (also Na'aran) () is an ancient Jewish village dating to the 5th and 6th century CE, located in the West Bank. Remains of the village have been excavated north of Jericho, in Ephraim, between Bethel and Jericho. The mosaic floor of a synagogue was discovered at the site featuring a large zodiac design. Naaran is mentioned in 1 Chronicles 7:28 as a town in the eastern part of Ephraim. Eusebius, in his \"Onomasticon\", makes mention of the site, saying that in his day it was \"a village inhabited by Jews, five miles from Jericho.\" The site is also named in the writings of Josephus (\"Antiquities\" 17.13.1), under its name (), and in the Midrash Rabba (Leviticus Rabba 23:5). Aramaic inscriptions and mosaics from the synagogue are displayed at an archaeology museum established by the Israeli archaeologist Yitzhak Magen at the Good Samaritan Inn. \n\nIn May 2012, the ancient synagogue was vandalized with graffiti that included swastikas and Palestinian flags. Israel's Public Diplomacy Minister Yuli-Yoel Edelstein condemned the act and noted that, \"The incident reaffirms the belief that Jewish holy sites must be under Israel's sovereignty.\"\nAn Israeli settlement, kibbutz Niran, located several kilometers to the north, takes its name from Naaran.\n\n"}
{"id": "57302964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57302964", "title": "New Age Orientalism", "text": "New Age Orientalism\n\nNew Age Orientalism describes a modern, Western perception of Tibet, and other Asian majority countries. The term was coined by, Tibetologist Donald Swell Lopez Jr., who specializes in Western discourse on Tibet. A tibetologist is a person who studies tibetology, the study of things related to Tibet, including its history, religion, language, politics and the collection of Tibetan articles of historical, cultural and religious significance. Tibet is a historical region covering much of the Tibetan Plateau in Central Asia. It is the traditional homeland of the Tibetan people as well as some other ethnic groups such as Monpa, Qiang, and Lhoba peoples and is now also inhabited by considerable numbers of Han Chinese and Hui people.\n\nDr. Donald S. Lopez Jr. studied the depiction of Tibet in Western academic writing throughout history. He found that, before the New Age movement, the depiction of Tibet was often cynical and derogatory. The demeaning features that define Orientalism, characterized the portrayal of Tibet, before the emergence of New Age Orientalism.\n\nIn line with the logic of opposites, members of Western academia stressed their superiority (particularly regarding their academic abilities) and used this as a justification to patronize the Orient. With the modern period came Colonialism, when new knowledge of the Eastern world sparked western scholars to write about foreign histories, cultures, and traditions, despite having a sparse and incomplete understanding of them. The Western world, a majority of which was engaging in colonialism, considered The Eastern world to be incapable of representing itself due to its non-western mechanisms of knowledge. The colonial philosophy of manifest destiny led western scholars to believe that they had a more civilized and valuable way of expression, and so western academics took it upon themselves to document societies, such as Tibet, from their perspectives. Often described as 'backward' or 'incapable,' particularly in self-governance, such portrayals helped to fuel racist and white supremacist beliefs of Asian peoples across the west. Such western scholars considered both China and Tibet to be “Oriental Despotisms,” to which the politically organized and colonizing Western world was meant to civilize. \n\nManifest destiny, along with larger ideologies of racism and white supremacy, were used as a method of justifying imperialism and colonialism. When control of Tibet was taken by western forces for periods of time, western understandings of self-superiority helped to fuel the sense of entitlement, which explained such colonial violence.\n\nHowever, western powers never fully succeeded in gaining imperial control of Tibet, despite Britain and Russia's considerable military efforts. According to a western-centric understanding, Tibet never modernized, refusing to adopt European-style education systems or norms. Throughout the course of the 19th and 20th century, Tibet remained inaccessible to Western powers, and was therefore predominantly portrayed as isolated, closed, and uncivilized.\n\nEmbedded in the New Age movement, New Age Orientalism describes the positive Western perception of old Tibet (before the Chinese invasion 1950 and Tibetan diaspora 1959). This portrayal of Tibet in the modern Western Societies, has been criticized for romanticizing old Tibetan reality and neglecting negative aspects of its society, such as, violence or the clerical, feudal structure. It is, therefore, seen as a construct of Western fantasy, rather than a depiction of reality. \n\nNew Age Orientalism, subsequently, describes the orientalist perception of Tibet, in which Tibet is no longer depreciated but, rather, romanticized. It is based on the tradition of continued Romantic Orientalism, “in which the ‘West’ perceives some lack within itself and fantasizes that the answer, through a process of projection, is to be found somewhere in the ‘East.'\" In this manner, the four characteristics of Orientalism persist with slight variation. The logic of opposites, now relates to the old Tibet and China. Tibet is no longer perceived as an antiquated, \"oriental despotism,\" but as a Shangri-La -- positive, holy, pristine, and pure, which is perceived as incorrupt, since it was never dominated by the West. The Chinese constitute the opposite, as the evil, subhuman force invading the land of peaceful, devoted inhabitants. The old Tibetan culture seems removed from time and history.\n\nThis allows the West to aggrandize themselves as rescuers of Tibet and Tibetan Buddhism (see 'Free Tibet' movement), whereas, Tibetans are depicted as helpless and voiceless. Ultimately, the West again finds itself in a patronizing position, representing another culture.\n\nThe romanticized picture of Tibet has, partly, been constructed and reflected by popular culture. Hollywood movies such as Seven years in Tibet, Kundun, and Little Buddha, were found to draw a romanticized image of Tibet, and hold up the Western rescue paradigm, in line with the play of opposites, between China and Tibet. Furthermore, publications surrounding the 'Free Tibet' movement have been categorized as New Age Orientalism. The constructed fantasies of a Shangri-La Tibet, are found to reflect back on the Western struggles, within their own national identity, as well as, pitfalls of globalization.\n\nIn academic literature, the concept of New Age Orientalism, originally relating to Tibet, has been expanded and applied to other cultures and religions, such as Hinduism. The discourse and perception on Ayurveda, for instance, has been categorized as New Age Orientalism.\n\nDr. Donald Lopez's concept of New Age Orientalism, has been criticized for placing too much weight on the impact and power of Orientalism, and viewing Tibet as a closed totality, removed from history. Alternatives to Orientalism are not considered. Moreover, the concept has been criticized for neglecting the Tibetan struggle under the Chinese occupation, in addition to not covering negative Oriental pictures of Old Tibet as feudal and antiquated to their fullest extent.\n"}
{"id": "684999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=684999", "title": "One-piece swimsuit", "text": "One-piece swimsuit\n\nA one-piece swimsuit most commonly refers to swimwear worn by women and girls when swimming in the sea or in a swimming pool, or for any activity in the sun, such as sun bathing. Today, the one-piece swimsuit is usually a skin-tight garment that covers a female's torso, except maybe the back or upper chest.\n\nBefore the popularity of the two-piece swimsuit, and then the bikini, virtually all female swimwear completely covered at least the wearer's torso, and men also wore similar swimsuits. While the bikini has increasingly found popular acceptance since the 1960s, the one-piece swimsuit has maintained a place on beaches to this day. Some people consider a one-piece swimsuit to be more modest than a two-piece bikini. In some situations, the wearing of a one-piece swimsuit may be mandatory or expected, as in the case of school swimming events and international swimming events.\n\nThe most common type of one-piece suit is the maillot (a term that is not generally used any more) or \"tank suit\", which resembles a sleeveless leotard or bodysuit. There are variants of the one-piece swimsuit, including halterneck styles and plunge front swimsuits, as well as wrap-round (\"surplice\") and bandeau styles. The pretzel suit is another style of the one-piece swimsuit. Recently, athletic swimsuits have used a variety of new shoulder strap styles, including the racerback, fastback, and flyback styles, some of which have also been used on other athletic wear. Another recent innovation in one-piece swimsuits is the bodyskin, which superficially resembles a unitard or wetsuit. Although these cover the entire torso, arms and legs, their function is not modesty, but reducing friction through the water for professional swimmers. Their surfaces are made of textured technical fabrics which are engineered to cut through the water in the same way as fish or shark skin.\n\nThe modern one-piece swimsuit made its appearance in the mid-1900s, when the style was widely described as a maillot. Its widespread acceptance is attributed to Australian swimmer Annette Kellerman, who attracted further attention to the style when, in 1907, she was arrested on a Boston beach for indecent exposure because her swimsuit showed arms, legs and the neck, a costume she adopted from England, and which was similar to men's swimsuits of the time. The arrest prompted a wide public outrage which added to the acceptance of the style. Kellerman marketed these bathing suits and the style came to be known as \"the Annette Kellerman\". The one-piece swimsuit became accepted swimsuit attire for women in parts of Europe by 1910, and other places, and was the authorised attire for women's swimming at the 1912 Summer Olympics, the first at which women competed.\n\n\"Harper's Bazaar\" praised the Kellerman swimsuit, writing in June 1920 (vol. 55, no. 6, p. 138) - \"Annette Kellerman Bathing Attire is distinguished by an incomparable, daring beauty of fit that always remains refined.\" The following year, in June 1921 (vol. 54, no. 2504, p. 101) it wrote that these bathing suits were \"famous ... for their perfect fit and exquisite, plastic beauty of line.\" In the United States, beauty pageants of women in bathing costumes became popular from the 1880s. However, such events were not regarded as respectable. Beauty contests became more respectable with the first modern \"Miss America\" contest held in 1921, though less respectable beauty contests continued to be held. Nevertheless, the Annette Kellerman continued to be considered by some as the most offensive style of swimsuit in the 1920s and became the focus of censorship efforts. Even in 1943, pictures of the Kellerman swimsuit were produced as evidence of indecency in \"Esquire v. Walker, Postmaster General\".\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s, people began to shift from \"taking in the water\" to \"taking in the sun,\" at bathhouses and spas, and swimsuit designs shifted from functional considerations to incorporate more decorative features. Rayon was used in the 1920s in the manufacture of tight-fitting swimsuits, but its durability, especially when wet, proved problematic, with jersey and silk also sometimes being used.\n\nBy the 1930s the necklines of women's swimwear plunged at the back, sleeves disappeared and sides were cut away and tightened. With the development of new clothing materials, particularly latex and nylon, through the 1930s swimsuits gradually began hugging the body, with shoulder straps that could be lowered for tanning. \nSince the 1960s, the bikini has increasingly found popular acceptance, though the one-piece swimsuit has maintained a place on beaches to this day. Heim's two-piece has fallen out of fashion. In some contexts till today, a two-piece swimsuit is still regarded by some as immodest and controversial, with a one-piece bathing suit being mandatory, as in the case of most school swimming events. Olympic women's swimming and other international swimming events still prohibit the wearing of two-piece swimsuits.\n\n"}
{"id": "37814607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37814607", "title": "Peter Rose (author)", "text": "Peter Rose (author)\n\nPeter G. Rose (born 25 February 1939) is an American author and food historian. She has published 8 books, mainly on the topic of food in colonial times, especially among the Dutch in the Hudson Valley. \n\nPeter Rose was born in Utrecht, educated in the Netherlands and Switzerland and emigrated to the United States in 1964.\n\nShe received the Alice P. Kenney Award for her research and writing on the food customs and diet of the Dutch settlers in New Netherland. Through the New York Council for Humanities she has presented at the Smithsonian Institution, the National Gallery of Art and the Culinary Institute of America.\n"}
{"id": "4500633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4500633", "title": "Rebecca Goldstein", "text": "Rebecca Goldstein\n\nRebecca Newberger Goldstein (born February 23, 1950) is an American philosopher, novelist and public intellectual. She has written ten books, both fiction and nonfiction. Her Princeton Ph.D. was in philosophy of science, and she is sometimes grouped with novelists, such as Richard Powers and Alan Lightman, who create fiction that is knowledgeable of, and sympathetic toward, science.\n\nIn her three nonfiction works she has shown an affinity for philosophical rationalism, as well as a conviction that philosophy, like science, makes progress and that scientific progress is itself supported by philosophical arguments. She has also stressed the role that secular philosophical reason has made in moral advances.\n\nIncreasingly, in her talks and interviews, she has been exploring what she has called \"mattering theory\" as an alternative to traditional utilitarianism. This theory is a continuation of her idea of \"the mattering map\", first suggested in her novel \"The Mind-Body Problem\". The concept of the mattering map has been widely adopted in contexts as diverse as cultural criticism, psychology, and behavioral economics.\n\nGoldstein is a MacArthur Fellow and has received the National Humanities Medal, the National Jewish Book Award, and numerous other honors.\n\nGoldstein, born Rebecca Newberger, grew up in White Plains, New York, and did her undergraduate work at City College of New York, UCLA, and Barnard College, where she graduated as valedictorian in 1972. She was born into an Orthodox Jewish family. She has one older brother, who is an Orthodox rabbi, and a younger sister, Sarah Stern. An older sister, Mynda Barenholtz, died in 2001.\n\nAfter earning her Ph.D. from Princeton University, where she studied with Thomas Nagel and wrote a dissertation titled \"Reduction, Realism and the Mind,\" she returned to Barnard as a professor of philosophy. There she published her first novel, \"The Mind-Body Problem\" (1983), a serio-comic tale of the conflict between emotion and intelligence, combined with reflections on the nature of mathematical genius, the challenges faced by intellectual women, and Jewish tradition and identity. Goldstein said she wrote the book to \"...insert 'real life' intimately into the intellectual struggle. In short I wanted to write a philosophically motivated novel.\"\n\nHer second novel, \"The Late-Summer Passion of a Woman of Mind\" (1989), was also set in academia, though with a far darker tone. Her third novel, \"The Dark Sister\" (1993), was something of a departure: a postmodern fictionalization of family and professional issues in the life of William James. She followed it with a short-story collection, \"Strange Attractors\" (1993), which was a National Jewish Honor Book and New York Times Notable Book of the Year. A fictional mother, daughter, and granddaughter introduced in two of the stories in that collection became the main characters of Goldstein's next novel, \"Mazel\" (1995), which won the National Jewish Book Award and the 1995 Edward Lewis Wallant Award.\n\nA MacArthur Fellowship in 1996 led to the writing of \"Properties of Light\" (2000), a ghost story about love, betrayal, and quantum physics. Her most recent novel is \"36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction\" (2010), which explores ongoing controversies over religion and reason through the tale of a professor of psychology who has written an atheist bestseller while his life is permeated with secular versions of religious themes such as messianism, divine genius, and the quest for immortality. The book has a long nonfiction appendix (attributed to the novel's protagonist) that details 36 traditional and modern arguments for the existence of God together with their claimed refutations. The book was chosen by National Public Radio as one of the \"five favorite books of 2010\" and by The Christian Science Monitor as the best book of fiction of 2010.\n\nGoldstein has written two biographical studies: \"Incompleteness: The Proof and Paradox of Kurt Gödel\" (2005) and \"Betraying Spinoza: The Renegade Jew Who Gave Us Modernity\" (2006). \"Betraying Spinoza\" combined her continuing interest in Jewish ideas, history, and identity with an increasing focus on secularism, humanism, and atheism. Goldstein has described the book, which combines elements of memoir, biography, history, and philosophical analysis, as \"the eighth book I'd published, but [the] first in which I took the long-delayed and irrevocable step of integrating my private and public selves.\". Together with \"36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction\" it established her as a prominent figure in the humanist movement, part of a wave of \"new new atheists\" marked by less divisive rhetoric and a greater representation of women. In 2011 she was named \"Humanist of the Year\" by the American Humanist Association and \"Freethought Heroine\" by the Freedom from Religion Foundation.\n\nIn 2014, she published \"Plato at the Googleplex: Why Philosophy Won't Go Away\", an exploration of the historical roots and contemporary relevance of philosophy. The book alternates between expository chapters on the life and ideas of Plato in the context of ancient Greece and modern dialogues in which Plato is brought to life in the 21st century, and demonstrates the relevance of philosophy by arguing with contemporary figures such as a software engineer at Google headquarters, a right-wing talk show host, an affective neuroscientist, and others.\n\nIn addition to Barnard, Goldstein has taught at Columbia, Rutgers, and Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut, and since 2014 she has been a visiting professor at the New College of the Humanities in London. In 2016 she was a Visiting Professor in the Department of English at New York University. She has held visiting fellowships at the Radcliffe Institute, Brandeis University, the Santa Fe Institute, Yale University, and Dartmouth College. In 2011, she delivered the Tanner Lectures on Human Values at Yale University, titled \"The Ancient Quarrel: Philosophy and Literature.\" She serves on the Council on Values of the World Economic Forum and serves on the Advisory Board of the Secular Coalition for America.\n\nGoldstein's writing has been published not only in her books but also in chapters in a number of edited books, and in journals including \"The Atlantic, The Chronicle of Higher Education, The New York Times Book Review, The New York Review of Books, The New Republic, The Wall Street Journal, Huffington Post, Tikkun (magazine), Commentary (magazine)\", and in blog format in the \"Washington Post\" \"On Faith\" section.\n\nGoldstein lives in Boston and Truro, Massachusetts.\n\nShe married her first husband, physicist Sheldon Goldstein, in 1969, and they divorced in 1999. They are the parents of the novelist Yael Goldstein Love and poet Danielle Blau. In a 2006 interview with Luke Ford, Goldstein said:\n\nIn 2007 she married cognitive psychologist Steven Pinker.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51834094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51834094", "title": "Season of the Witch: Enchantment, Terror, and Deliverance in the City of Love", "text": "Season of the Witch: Enchantment, Terror, and Deliverance in the City of Love\n\nSeason of the Witch: Enchantment, Terror, and Deliverance in the City of Love is a history book by best-selling author David Talbot. The book captures the dark history of San Francisco from the 1960s to the early 1980s utilizing a “kaleidoscopic narrative” and tells the story of how \"the 1967 Summer of Love gave way to 20 or so winters of discontent.\" \n\n\"Season of the Witch\" is broken down into three sections, each one depicting a different period within the city; each section is home to a number of chapters that are cleverly titled and a hodge-podge of clever puns to the utmost bizarre.\n\nThe story starts off with what San Francisco is best known for within its history: hippie kids and their drugs that lead to the birthplace of many social movements and the rise of the Counter Culture.\n\nThis is part of San Francisco history that many would like to forget. Hells Angels running amok at the Rolling Stones concert at Altamont, but saving one of the few free clinics. The Zodiac and Zebra killers. And the hate-fueled political killing of George Moscone and Harvey Milk.\n\nThe book concludes with the riots that followed and the AIDS epidemic that was just heating up.\n\nSince San Francisco is known for its music and music played a large part in its history, Talbot concludes the book with what he considers to be the best and most influential songs recorded during 1965-1985. Songs by San Francisco natives like The Grateful Dead and Jefferson Airplane are included in this list.\n\nThe San Francisco Public Library selected \"Season of the Witch\" as their One City One Book 2015 selection. An annual literacy event that, through a series of readings and discussions, aims to get the entire city reading and talking about one book with the overall goal of \"building bridges between communities and generations\" and making \"reading a lifelong pursuit\" in order to create a more literate society.\n\n\"Season of the Witch\" was published by Free Press (NYC) on May 8, 2012.\n\n\"Season of the Witch\" received starred reviews in \"Publishers Weekly\" and \"Kirkus Reviews\", and was hailed as \"enthralling, news-driven history\" (\"San Francisco Chronicle\"), \"energetic, highly entertaining storytelling\" (\"Boston Globe\"), and \"an enthralling – and harrowing – account of how the 1967 Summer of Love gave way to 20 or so winters of discontent\" (\"Washington Post\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2905314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905314", "title": "September Eleventh Families for Peaceful Tomorrows", "text": "September Eleventh Families for Peaceful Tomorrows\n\nSeptember Eleventh Families for Peaceful Tomorrows, also known as 9/11 Families for Peaceful Tomorrows or simply Peaceful Tomorrows, is an anti-war organization for survivors of the September 11, 2001 attacks and friends and family members of the victims.\n\nIt aims to develop and advocate nonviolent options and actions in the pursuit of justice, in the hope that this will help break what the members see as the cycles of violence engendered by war and terrorism.\n\nPeaceful Tomorrows was launched on February 14, 2002, at a press conference at the United Nations headquarters by Colleen Kelly and other members of families that had lost members in the 9/11 attacks who did not want their grief to justify attacks such as the American bombing campaign in Afghanistan, and to ensure that these actions would not be done in their names and the names of their loved ones.\n\nThe International Network for Peace is a project that grew out of Peaceful Tomorrows’ groundbreaking international conference \"Civilian Casualties, Civilian Solutions\" which took place on September 11, 2006, the five-year anniversary of 9/11.\n\nIn the weeks following, September 11th Families for Peaceful Tomorrows brought conference participants to speak at several public events at American universities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52547947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52547947", "title": "Siam Society", "text": "Siam Society\n\nThe Siam Society Under Royal Patronage () is a society in Bangkok, Thailand, which aims to promote knowledge of Thailand. Its headquarters and library are on Asok Montri Road and it also runs the Kamthieng House Museum. It was founded on 26 February 1904 at a meeting at the Oriental Hotel.\n\nThere were 103 founding members, and currently the society has close to 1800 members. The society has published the \"Journal of the Siam Society\" (JSS) since 1904 and the articles aged over a hundred years are available online. The proceedings of the society were submitted to UNESCO's Memory of the World Programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "17671857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17671857", "title": "Tsatur Aghayan", "text": "Tsatur Aghayan\n\nTsatur Aghayan (; 30 December 1911 – 3 December 1982) was a Soviet Armenian historian a Professor at Yerevan State University, an academician of the Armenian Academy of Sciences, the editor of the journal \"Lraber Hasarakakan Gitutyunneri\", and a renowned scientist of the Armenian SSR (1974). Aghayan was born in the village of Pip, Dashkesan.\n\nHe headed the branches of Soviet and modern history at the Institute of History (Armenian Sciences Academy), from 1961 to 1968 he directed the Armenian branch of the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. His works are dedicated to the Armenian national liberation movement of the 19th and 20th centuries, Andranik Ozanian's activities, socio-economic conditions of pre-soviet Transcaucasia. He died in 1982 in Yerevan.\n\nAccording to hush.am he is buried in Tokhmakh cemetery with Siranush Aghayan Simoni.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "298573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298573", "title": "Vladislav Ardzinba", "text": "Vladislav Ardzinba\n\nVladislav Ardzinba (, ; 14 May 1945 – 4 March 2010) was the first \"de facto\" President of Abkhazia. A historian by education, Ardzinba led Abkhazia to \"de facto\" independence in the 1992–1993 War with Georgia, but its \"de jure\" independence from Georgia remained internationally unrecognised during Ardzinba's two terms as President from 1994 to 2005.\n\nA noted specialist in Hittitology, he was a member of the first parliament to be elected democratically in the Soviet Union in 1989.\n\nVladislav Ardzinba was born in the village of Lower Eshera, Sukhumi District, Abkhaz ASSR, Georgian SSR, Soviet Union. After graduating from the Historical Department of the Sukhumi Pedagogical Institute, Ardzinba studied at the Tbilisi State University where he received a doctoral degree. He then worked for eighteen years in Moscow specialising in ancient Middle Eastern civilizations under Yevgeniy Primakov, then head of the Institute of Oriental Studies in Moscow, and later Russian foreign and Prime Minister. He then returned to Sukhumi and he served there as the director of the Abkhazian Institute of Language, Literature and History from 1987 until 1989, when he was elected a Deputy to the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union from Gudauta. From there, he was involved closely with national issues, including Abkhazia, and quickly emerged as one of the most active proponents of the Abkhaz secessionist cause. While a deputy to the USSR Supreme Soviet, Ardzinba forged close ties with the hardliners in Moscow, particularly with the parliamentary chairman Anatoly Lukyanov and other members of the hardline communist groups in Moscow that were responsible for the August 1991 coup attempt.\n\nHe was a member of the first parliament to be elected democratically in the Soviet Union in 1989.\n\nOn 4 December 1990, Ardzinba was elected Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of Abkhazia. Ardzinba, a charismatic but excitable figure popular among the Abkhaz was believed by Georgians to have helped to instigate the violence of July 1989. Ardzinba managed to consolidate his power relatively quickly and reneged on pre-election promises to increase the representation of Georgians in Abkhazia's autonomous structures; since then, Ardzinba tried to rule Abkhazia relatively single-handedly, but avoided, for the time being, overt conflict with the central authorities in Tbilisi. In mid-1991, he negotiated and accepted the Georgian concession on the reform of the electoral law that granted the Abkhaz wide over-representation in the Supreme Soviet. However, Ardzinba created the Abkhazian National Guard that was mono-ethnically Abkhaz, and initiated a practice of replacing ethnic Georgians in leading positions with Abkhaz. As the Georgian-Abkhaz tensions rose, Ardzinba's rhetoric mounted, as he claimed in late July 1992 that \"Abkhazia is strong enough to fight Georgia.\"\n\nIn August 1992, a Georgian military force ousted Ardzinba and his group from Sukhumi. They took shelter in Gudauta, a home to the Soviet-era Russian military base. Ardzinba benefited from his contacts with the Russian hardliner circles and military leaders to garner critical support in the war against the Georgian government.\n\nAfter the hostilities ended in 1994 and the bulk of the Georgian population was forced out of Abkhazia, the Abkhazian parliament elected Ardzinba to the presidency, a move that was condemned by Georgia and the United Nations as illegal. He won the first direct polls on 3 October 1999, without an opponent and was re-elected as president of Abkhazia. He installed an autocratic regime and remained politically untouchable until his health seriously deteriorated in 2003. He once stated that independence from Georgia is not negotiable, and he has tried to align the state with Russia, whose political and economic support was essential to the republic. As a leader of the Abkhaz side he met the two successive Russian presidents, Boris Yeltsin and Vladimir Putin, as well as a President of Georgia, Eduard Shevardnadze.\n\nUnder his rule, human rights records were extremely poor as most of the pre-war Georgian population of Abkhazia were deprived the right to return, and those who remained were subjected to systematic ethnic cleansing. Ardzinba aroused some further criticism from the international community after issuing a decree banning Jehovah's Witnesses in 1995.\n\nDuring the last years of his presidency Ardzinba faced criticism for both failing to bring stability to Abkhazia and his increasingly low public profile. He had not appeared in public since 2002. As a result, the role of governing the state had been increasingly left to Prime Minister Raul Khajimba.\n\nHe had been in extremely poor health and underwent treatment in Moscow for some time. Despite increasing calls from the opposition (particularly the Amtsakhara movement) for him to resign he had stated that he would finish his term, which was supposed to end in October 2004, but in fact did not end until 12 February 2005, due to disputes over the election of his successor. There were also calls for him to be impeached. However, although the Abkhaz Constitution allows for impeachment, the process would likely have not been completed before the end of his term, so no serious steps were taken to bring it about. He was unable to run for a third term due to constitutional restrictions, and it is unlikely that his health would have enabled him to do so even if this was allowed.\n\nHe was replaced by the winner of the presidential election of 12 January 2005, Sergei Bagapsh. A previous election had been held in late 2004 after the murder of opposition leader Garri Aiba, but the result was controversial.\n\nBy 2010, Ardzinba's health was in decline and had been for some time. Ardzinba died on 4 March 2010, at the age of 64. He was in the Central Clinical Hospital in Moscow at the time. He had been escorted there the previous week. The cause of death was not released to the public. He is survived by his wife and daughter. The President of Abkhazia, Sergei Bagapsh, paid tribute: \"His service to the Abkhaz people was boundless\". Three days of mourning were declared in Abkhazia in remembrance of Ardzinba.\n\n"}
{"id": "1250185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1250185", "title": "Walter Laqueur", "text": "Walter Laqueur\n\nWalter Ze'ev Laqueur (26 May 1921 – 30 September 2018) was an American historian, journalist and political commentator. He was an influential scholar on the subjects of terrorism and political violence.\n\nWalter Laqueur was born in Breslau, Lower Silesia, Germany (today Wrocław, Poland), into a Jewish family. In 1938, he left Germany, immigrating to the British Mandate of Palestine. His parents, who were unable to leave, were murdered in the Holocaust. After a year of study at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Laqueur joined a kibbutz and worked as an agricultural laborer from 1939 to 1944. Between 1939 and 1944, he lived at Kibbutz Sha'ar HaGolan, Kibbutz Ein Shemer, and, as a member, Kibbutz Shamir. In 1955, Laqueur moved to London.\n\nLaqueur died at his home in Washington, DC, on 30 September 2018.\n\nIn Mandatory Palestine, he worked as a correspondent for the Hashomer Hatzair newspaper, \"Mishmar\" (later, Al HaMishmar), and for \"The Palestine Post\" (later, The Jerusalem Post), before moving to the United States. In 1944, he moved to Jerusalem, where he worked as a journalist until 1953 as a Middle East correspondent.\n\nHe was founder and editor, with George Mosse, of the \"Journal of Contemporary History\" and of \"Survey\" from 1956 to 1964. He was also founding editor of \"The Washington Papers\". He was Director of the Institute of Contemporary History and the Wiener Library in London from 1965 to 1994, From 1969 he was a member, and later Chairman (until 2000), of the International Research Council of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Washington. He was Professor of the History of Ideas at Brandeis University from 1968 to 1972, and University Professor at Georgetown University from 1976 to 1988. He was also a visiting professor of history and government at Harvard, the University of Chicago, Tel Aviv University and Johns Hopkins University.\n\nLaqueur's main works deal with European history in the 19th and 20th centuries, especially Russian history and German history, as well as the history of the Middle East. The topics he wrote about include the German Youth Movement, Zionism, Israeli history, the cultural history of the Weimar Republic and Russia, Communism, the Holocaust, fascism, and the diplomatic history of the Cold War. His books have been translated into many languages. His comments on international affairs appeared in many American and European newspapers and periodicals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "376758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376758", "title": "William Archer (critic)", "text": "William Archer (critic)\n\nWilliam Archer (23 September 1856 – 27 December 1924) was a Scottish writer and theatre critic, based, for most of his career, in London. He was an early advocate of the plays of Henrik Ibsen, and was an early friend and supporter of Bernard Shaw.\n\nArcher was born in Perth, the eldest boy of the nine children of Thomas Archer and his wife Grace, \"née\" Morrison. Thomas moved frequently from place to place seeking employment, and William attended schools in Perth, Lymington, Reigate and Edinburgh. He spent parts of his boyhood with relatives in Norway where he became fluent in Norwegian and became acquainted with the works of Henrik Ibsen.\n\nArcher won a bursary to Edinburgh University, to study English literature, moral and natural philosophy, and mathematics. When the family moved to Australia in 1872 he remained in Scotland as a student. While still at the university he became a leader-writer on the \"Edinburgh Evening News\" in 1875, and after a year visiting his family in Australia, he returned to Edinburgh. In 1878, in accordance with his father's wishes, he moved to London to train as a barrister. He was uninterested in the law, and was by now fascinated with the theatre, but he qualified for the bar in 1883, although he never practised. He supported himself by working as dramatic critic of \"The London Figaro\", and after he finished his legal studies he moved to \"The World\", where he remained from 1884 to 1906. In London he soon took a prominent literary place and exercised much influence.\n\nArcher played an important part in introducing Ibsen to the English public, starting with his translation of \"The Pillars of Society\", produced at the Gaiety Theatre in 1880. It was the first Ibsen play to be produced in London but made little impression. He also translated, alone or in collaboration, other productions of the Scandinavian stage: Ibsen's \"A Doll's House\" (1889), \"The Master Builder\" (1893, with Edmund Gosse); Edvard Brandes's \"A Visit\" (1892); Ibsen's \"Peer Gynt\" (1892, with Charles Archer); \"Little Eyolf\" (1895); and \"John Gabriel Borkman\" (1897); and he edited Ibsen's \"Prose Dramas\", 1890–1891).\n\nIn 1881 Archer met Frances Elizabeth Trickett (1855–1929), the youngest of the eight children of John Trickett, a retired engineer. They married in October 1884; the following year they had their only child, Tom (1885–1918), who was killed in action in the First World War. The marriage was enduring and companionable, although in 1891 Archer began a relationship which lasted for the rest of his life with the actress Elizabeth Robins.\n\nIn 1897 Archer, along with Robins, Henry William Massingham, and Alfred Sutro, formed the Provisional Committee to organise an association to produce plays they considered to be of high literary merit, such as Ibsen's. The association was called the \"New Century Theatre\" but was a disappointment by 1899, although it continued until at least 1904. In 1899, a more successful association, called the Stage Society, was formed to replace it.\n\nArcher was a friend of Bernard Shaw, and arranged for his plays to be translated into German. An attempted collaboration on a play foundered, although Shaw later turned their joint ideas into his early work, \"Widower's Houses\". Through Archer's influence Shaw obtained the post of art critic to \"The World\", before becoming its music critic. A biographer, J. P. Wearing, says of their relationship:\nDuring the First World War, Archer worked for the official War Propaganda Bureau. After the war, he achieved financial success with his play \"The Green Goddess\", produced by Winthrop Ames at the Booth Theatre in New York in 1921. It was a melodrama, and a popular success, although, he admitted, of much less importance to the art of the drama than his critical work.\n\nArcher died in a London nursing home in 1924 of post-operative complications after the removal of a kidney tumour. Reviewing his life and career, Wearing's summary is that Archer was \"a clear, logical man whom some saw as too narrowly rationalistic\", but who was perceptive, intuitive and imaginative. Wearing attributes Archer's great influence as a critic to these qualities and to the length of time for which he was engaged in the theatre and reviewing, although\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21322933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21322933", "title": "Øyvind Bjørnson", "text": "Øyvind Bjørnson\n\nØyvind Bjørnson (1 January 1950 – 3 December 2007) was a Norwegian historian who specialized in labor history and the history of the welfare state.\n\nHe hailed from Haugesund. He took the cand.philol. degree in 1979, and later the dr.philos. degree in 1987 with the thesis \"Den nye arbeidsdagen\". In 1990 he published \"På klassekampens grunn\", volume two of the work \"Arbeiderbevegelsens historie i Norge\", the history of the Norwegian workers' movement. He then covered the welfare state history with the books \"100 år for bedre arbeidsmiljø\", published in 1993 at the 100th anniversary of the Norwegian Labour Inspection Authority, and \"Langsomt ble landet et velferdssamfunn\", published in 1994 together with his life partner and colleague Inger Elisabeth Haavet. His last work, \"Haugesund 1914-1950. Dei trødde sjøen\" published in 2004, was about his hometown, linked with broader global economic trends. He was a professor at the University of Bergen since 1993.\nBjørnson died in December 2007 following a long-term lung illness.\n"}
