{"id": "17108509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17108509", "title": "2008 California Propositions 98 and 99", "text": "2008 California Propositions 98 and 99\n\nCalifornia Propositions 98 and 99 were competing ballot propositions in the U.S. state of California to limit the use of eminent domain and possibly rent control. They were voted on June 3, 2008; proposition 98 failed, while proposition 99 passed.\n\nThe propositions were partly a reaction to the 2005 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in \"Kelo v. City of New London\", which held that the power of eminent domain can sometimes be used to transfer property from one private owner to another. They addressed the issue differently, and also included other measures.\n\nProposition 98 would have prohibited \"state and local governments from condemning or damaging private property for private uses\", changed litigation rules to be more friendly to property owners, and required the government to allow the original owner to repurchase the property at the original price if it ended up being put to a different use than originally stated. In addition, the proposition would have prohibited rent control and similar measures.\n\nProposition 99 more narrowly prohibited \"state and local governments from using eminent domain to acquire an owner-occupied residence [if the owner has occupied the residence for at least one year], as defined, for conveyance to a private person or business entity\", subject to some exceptions. It did not prohibit rent control nor the use of eminent domain for properties other than residences occupied by the owner for over a year. The nonpartisan California Legislative Analyst's Office (which prepares analyses for the official state voter guide) concluded, \"Proposition 99 would not significantly change current government land acquisition practices.\"\n\nIf both propositions had passed, but Proposition 99 received more votes, only it, and not Proposition 98, would become law. However, this ended up not to matter as only Proposition 99 passed.\n\nProposition 98 was co-sponsored by the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, and was also supported by landlord groups. It was opposed by tenant groups and associations of cities and redevelopment agencies, who preferred Proposition 99. By April 2008, supporters of Proposition 98 had raised $3.5 million, and opponents $6.4 million, to conduct their campaigns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7533766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7533766", "title": "Bafia people", "text": "Bafia people\n\nThe Bafia (Beukpak) people inhabit the Mbam region in the Centre Region of Cameroon. Their origins are said to be similar with those of the Bamun and Tikar people. A division during migratory movements caused the two sets of groups to settle in different areas. Later, the Islamisation of most of the Bamun territory further separated them. A yearly festival held in Fumban (Bamun territory) is considered by many to symbolize the recognition of their common heritage.\n\nTheir language is Bafia.\n\nA Bafia father will give his child a personal name to which his own name (patronyme) is appended. For instance, a father named \"Keman a Ndiomo\" may call his son \"Bitegni a Keman\". The \"a\" in the middle stands for \"son of\".\n\nThe traditional dance of the Bafia is seen to convey a sense of heightened excitement and joy through posture and facial expressions. Dances are traditionally held after successful harvests, although they may also be performed during engagements, weddings, and other official events.\n\nThe earliest recorded religious tradition amongst the Bafia was that everything in the world developed from an egg. Both feminine sexual forces, represented by a cave or hollow tree, and masculine sexual forces, represented by a snake or vine, were involved. There was no afterlife, God, nor sin.\n\nThe turtle is respected as a traditional totem animal. There is an age-old belief that turtle shells are sacred and can be used to resolve disputes within the community. All those involved are required to lay their hands on the animal's shell as a way of eliciting the truth. The hands of the guilty party will then supposedly contract leprosy as punishment for evil deeds.\n\nToday, the dominant religion is Protestant Christianity (\"Mareucana\" is the Bafia term), although a small section of the population has converted to Islam (for which the Bafia term is \"Moussouloumi\").\n\nTraditional life amongst the Bafia, as recorded by Günther Tessmann in 1921, encouraged \"conspicuous and significant, naïveté and freedom in sexual activity\". Childbirth was joyfully explained to children as soon as they could speak, and sexual play was condoned by age five or six. Until puberty both boys and girls were given free rein to engage in sexual play, but this was not considered genuine sexuality, and children emerged at puberty still considered virgins.\n\nAt menstruation, young women were strictly segregated to avoid unplanned pregnancies; at this stage, they were known as \"ngon\", or sexually inactive virgins. Young men usually engaged solely in homosexuality during this stage and were known as \"kiembe\", youths who don't yet sexually associate with females. Many young men would develop a boyfriend type of relationship with a special \"lexan\" or \"bosom buddy\". A man who attempted sex with a woman of the \"ngon\" stage could face torture or even being sold into slavery. He was free to pursue a fully adult woman, but Tessmann stated that, \"the youth at this stage is rarely successful, since there is much competition.\"\n\nUpon reaching full adulthood, most men would attempt to abduct a woman for sex. Frequently \"lexan\" would team up to find female partners, and might even share a woman in a ménage à trois. Tessmann theorized that \"those who formerly engaged only in homosexual intercourse, aroused by the sight of their comrades, are thereby won over to heterosexual relations.\" At this stage, men were known as \"ntu\", boys without children who have sexual relations with females, and women as \"tsobo\", women without children.\n\nAfter pregnancy & childbirth, men became known as \"mbäng\", men who have children, and women as \"gib\", women with children. A father would customarily give a child the name of his former \"lexan\" or \"busom buddy\", regardless of gender. Tessmann was intrigued that due to this custom \"a delicate lass runs about with a formidable male name like 'Buffalo' or 'Man of Death.'\" He also noted that a few men would remain permanently homosexual through adulthood, although he never met any himself.\n\nBafia people, like many other ethnic groups in Cameroon, are mainly vegetarians.\n\n"}
{"id": "18099127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18099127", "title": "Bohemian Citizens' Benevolent Society", "text": "Bohemian Citizens' Benevolent Society\n\nThe Bohemian Citizens' Benevolent Society is a private benevolent society founded in 1892 in Astoria, Queens to support Czech and Slovak immigrants to the area, as well as people of Czech and Slovak ancestry. The Society is commonly known as \"Bohemian Hall\", for the historic structure (NRHP) in which it is located.\n\nThe founders of the organization said that the purpose of the society is to encourage, support, and maintain Bohemian schools, dramatics, and libraries for Czech children and children of Czech heritage; to maintain a non-profit-making home social for Czechs and people of Czech ancestry in which the Czech culture may be taught and blended with American traditions and culture which makes the people better Americans. The organization has an annual revenue of $1,000,000 and employs a staff of approximately 14. The current president of the organization is Alan Svoboda.\n\nThe Bohemian Hall and Beer Garden has a big indoor and outdoor bar complex. The bar complex can hold 800 people and is open year-round. Food that the bar serves is Czech specialties. There is a lime tree that was planted by Václav Havel. There are old signs and flags from the Czech Republic inside the bar. There are beers from the Czech Republic and Slovakia like Golden Pheasant, BrouCzech, Pilsner Urquell, Krušovice, Czechvar, and Staropramen. Most of the workers speak Czech and English. Most of the regular people that are there are middle-aged and elderly immigrants. The Hall hosts holiday parties, ethnic festivals, local jazz groups, Czech rock bands, and touring acts. The Bohemian Hall hosts the annual Czech and Slovak festival. The hall also has a Sokol club and a Czech school. The Bohemian Hall keeps the people linked, visually and materially, to the past.\n\nRevenue was so low in the early 1990s that the hall threatened to close. A large group of people, not all Czech, started a \"Save the Hall\" meeting. Václav Havel, the former president of Czechoslovakia, was so moved by the outcome of the meeting that when he stopped by in 2000 he stayed for hours and held a conference.\n"}
{"id": "2662425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2662425", "title": "Boy Scouts of America membership controversies", "text": "Boy Scouts of America membership controversies\n\nThe Boy Scouts of America (BSA), one of the largest private youth organizations in the United States, has policies which prohibit those who are not willing to subscribe to the BSA's Declaration of Religious Principle, which is usually interpreted as banning atheists, and, until January 2014, prohibited all \"known or avowed homosexuals,\" from membership in its Scouting program. The ban on adults who are \"open or avowed homosexuals\" from leadership positions was lifted in July 2015. Prior to these policy changes, BSA had denied or revoked membership status or leadership positions for violation of these foundational principles. The BSA had contended that its policies were essential in its mission to instill in young people the values of the Scout Promise, or Oath, and Scout Law.\n\nThe organization's legal right to have these policies has been upheld repeatedly by both state and federal courts. In \"Boy Scouts of America v. Dale\", the Supreme Court of the United States has affirmed that as a private organization, the BSA can set its own membership standards. The BSA's policies have been legally challenged but have not been found to constitute illegal discrimination because as a private organization in the United States, the BSA has the right to freedom of association, as determined in the court case. In recent years, the policy disputes have led to litigation over the terms under which the BSA can access governmental resources, including public lands.\n\nThese policies have led to various disputes and controversies. In 2012, both Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and then President Barack Obama stated that they opposed the ban on gay Scouts. On May 23, 2013, the BSA's National Council approved a resolution to remove the restriction denying membership to youth on the basis of sexual orientation alone effective January 1, 2014. The policy for adult leaders remained in place until July 27, 2015.\n\nAccording to its mission statement, the Boy Scouts of America seeks \"to prepare young people to make ethical and moral choices over their lifetimes by instilling in them the values of the Scout Oath and Law\". All members are required, as a condition of membership, to promise to uphold and obey both of these pledges. The texts of the BSA's Scout Oath and Scout Law for Boy Scouting have remained unchanged since they were approved in 1911, and every member agrees to follow them on his or her application form.\n\n<poem>\nScout Oath\nOn my honor I will do my best\nTo do my duty to God and my country\nand to obey the Scout Law;\nTo help other people at all times;\nTo keep myself physically strong,\nmentally awake, and morally straight.\n</poem>\nScout Law\nA Scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent.\n\nIn reciting the Scout Oath, Scouts promise to do their duty to God and to be morally straight; the Scout Law holds that a Scout is clean and reverent. As early as 1978, the Boy Scouts of America circulated a memorandum among national executive staff stating that it was not appropriate for homosexuals to hold leadership positions in BSA. Similarly, since at least 1985, the BSA has interpreted the Scout Oath and Law as being incompatible with agnosticism and atheism. In both instances, the organization asserted that it was not a new policy to oppose and disfavor atheism, agnosticism and homosexuality, but rather, it was just enforcing long-held policies which had never been published or publicly challenged.\n\nThe Boy Scouts of America makes a division between its Scouting programs and the Learning for Life program. The traditional Scouting programs are Cub Scouting, Boy Scouting, and Venturing. Exploring is the worksite-based program of Learning for Life. Leadership positions and membership in the Learning for Life programs are open to youth and adults without restriction based on gender, sexual orientation, atheism, or agnosticism. The controversial policies which restrict membership apply only to the Scouting programs.\n\nThe Boy Scouts of America's official position in the past has been that atheists and agnostics cannot participate as Scouts or adult Scout Leaders in its traditional Scouting programs.\n\nSpirituality has been an integral part of the international Scouting movement since its inception. As early as 1908, Scouting founder Robert Baden-Powell wrote in the first Scout handbook that, \"No man is much good unless he believes in God and obeys His laws.\"\nFor much of its existence, the BSA has believed that atheists and agnostics are not appropriate role models of the Scout Oath and Law for boys, and thus have not accepted such persons as members or adult leaders. The Bylaws of the BSA contain a Declaration of Religious Principle which all Scouts (adult and youth) are required to subscribe to as part of the membership application process. It states:\n\nThe Declaration of Religious Principle was adopted in the first decade of the organization to assuage the Roman Catholic Church's worries, in light of the work of the YMCA in establishing Scouting in the United States, that Scouting might be a Protestant proselytizing organization.\n\nThe BSA does not require adherence to any particular religious beliefs or ethos beyond this. The Boy Scout Handbook goes on to explain that \"A Scout is Reverent\" simply means that \"A Scout is reverent towards God. He is faithful in his religious duties. He respects the beliefs of others.\" Buddhists, followers of Native American religions, Muslims, Jews, Christians of all denominations, and many others, including those who define their own spirituality, can be and are members of the BSA. The BSA recognizes religious awards for over 38 faith groups including Islam, Judaism, Baha'i, Zoroastrianism, Hinduism, Sikhism and 28 varieties of Christianity. Boy Scouts of America–approved religious emblems exist for a number of religions, while other emblems remain unrecognized by National.\n\nIn March 2016, the BSA signed a new Memorandum of Understanding with the Unitarian Universalist Association after many years of separation. The MOU gives any Unitarian Universalist congregation the absolute authority over all phases of the program that affect the spiritual welfare of those who participate. The MOU specifically mentions Humanism and Earth-centered traditions as being acceptable faiths in Scouting programs chartered by Unitarian Universalist congregations. Since Humanist teachings specifically emphasize reliance on critical thinking and evidence over dogma and superstition, this MOU allows for atheist and agnostic members to join the BSA through Scout units chartered by Unitarian Universalist congregations. As part of the agreement in the MOU, the religious emblems developed by the Unitarian Universalist Association have been reinstated as of May, 2016. It should be noted that since many Buddhists are non theists, Buddhist atheists and agnostics have effectively been allowed in BSA programs for as long as Buddhists have been in Scouting in the United States.\n\nThe Secular Coalition for America has urged Congress to revoke the federal charter of the BSA, stating: \"Our government must not entangle itself in religious organizations; nor should it establish, with government \"imprimatur\", a private religious club.\"\n\nIn 1967, the Boy Scouts of America's den mother position was changed to den leader and opened to males and females. In 1969, the Boy Scouts of America opened special-interest posts to young women to be \"associate members\". Two years later, the Boy Scouts of America decided to allow any Explorer post to accept young women and/or young men, based on the desires of the chartered organization, and many Explorer posts became co-educational. (In 1998, the Exploring program was completely reorganized and split into two program categories, which both accept women and men. All the career-oriented posts were moved to Learning for Life under the name Exploring, while the rest (including outdoor-oriented posts) became the new Venturing program.) In 1973, most Cub Scout leadership positions were opened to women, and in 1976 the Cubmaster, assistant Cubmaster, and all commissioner positions could also be filled by women. Catherine Pollard was the first female Scoutmaster in the Boy Scouts of America; she led Boy Scout Troop 13 in Milford, Connecticut from 1973 to 1975, but the Boy Scouts of America refused to recognize her as a Scoutmaster until 1988.\n\nOn January 30, 2017, the Boy Scouts of America announced that transgender boys would be allowed to enroll in boys-only programs, effective immediately. Previously, the sex listed on an applicant's birth certificate determined eligibility for these programs; going forward, the decision would be based on the gender listed on the application. Joe Maldonado became the first openly transgender boy to join the Scouts on February 7, 2017.\n\nUntil 2017, the Boy Scouts of America's official position was that girls could not participate in its Cub Scouting or Boy Scouting programs. However, the Venturing and Learning for Life programs were and continue to be open to young men and women ages 14 through 21.\n\nOn October 11, 2017, the Boy Scouts announced that girls would be allowed to become Cub Scouts, starting in 2018, and that in 2019, a separate program for older girls will be available, enabling girls to earn the rank of Eagle Scout.\n\nThe movement to include girls as full members of the BSA was put into the public spotlight most notably by Sydney Ireland. Ireland, age 16 in 2017, had unofficially been participating in Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts with her brother for twelve years, completing merit badges and the Arrow of Light, but none of this was officially recognized because she is a girl. Ireland and her family started a Change.org petition to the BSA leadership calling for equal membership. Ireland's petition gained media attention and utilized an email campaign for supporters to contact BSA leadership. It was supported by Scouts for Equality and endorsed by the National Organization for Women. The BSA leadership was receptive and unanimously approved new programs allowing girls and young women into Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts.\n\nThe BSA, upon announcing this program, reaffirmed its commitment to youth protection. Part of the BSA's aim in adopting this policy was to accommodate families with children of different genders, so that sisters of Cub Scouts could be included in the program as well, citing requests from families of Scouts.\n\nMichael Surbaugh, BSA Chief Scout Executive said \"This decision is true to the BSA's mission and core values outlined in the Scout Oath and Law. The values of Scouting – trustworthy, loyal, helpful, kind, brave and reverent, for example – are important for both young men and women.\" \"We believe it is critical to evolve how our programs meet the needs of families interested in positive and lifelong experiences for their children. We strive to bring what our organization does best – developing character and leadership for young people – to as many families and youth as possible as we help shape the next generation of leaders.\"\n\nThe policy announced on October 11, 2017 for Cub Scouts does retain single-gender aspects. Cub Scout Dens would either be all-girl or all-boy. Individual Packs would have the choice of whether they wish their Pack have both girl Dens and boy Dens; have only boy Dens; or start a new Pack for girl Dens. On January 15, 2018, Abigail Lemon of Euless, TX became the first female Cub Scout in BSA history.\n\nOn May 23, 2013, The Boy Scouts of America's national governing body voted to rescind the long-standing ban on homosexual youth in the program. Effective January 1, 2014, \"No youth may be denied membership in the Boy Scouts of America on the basis of sexual orientation or preference alone.\"\n\nPrior to this, the Boy Scouts of America's official position was to \"not grant membership to individuals who are open or avowed homosexuals\" as Scouts or adult Scout Leaders in its traditional Scouting programs. As early as 1980, the Boy Scouts of America have denied membership from openly homosexual individuals applying for adult leadership positions. In 1991 the BSA released a position statement expressing the organization's official position, stating: \"We believe that homosexual conduct is inconsistent with the requirement in the Scout Oath that a Scout be morally straight and in the Scout Law that a Scout be clean in word and deed, and that homosexuals do not provide a desirable role model for Scouts.\" The BSA thus \"believes that a known or avowed homosexual is not an appropriate role model of the Scout Oath and Law.\"\n\nThe language used to describe the BSA's policies on homosexual individuals has evolved over time, stating in a 1993 position statement that: \"We do not allow for the registration of avowed homosexuals as members or as leaders of the BSA.\" The BSA adopted a new policy statement in 2004 which included a specific \"Youth Leadership\" policy stating that: \"Boy Scouts of America believes that homosexual conduct is inconsistent with the obligations in the Scout Oath and Scout Law to be morally straight and clean in thought, word, and deed. The conduct of youth members must be in compliance with the Scout Oath and Law, and membership in Boy Scouts of America is contingent upon the willingness to accept Scouting's values and beliefs. Most boys join Scouting when they are 10 or 11 years old. As they continue in the program, all Scouts are expected to take leadership positions. In the unlikely event that an older boy were to hold himself out as homosexual, he would not be able to continue in a youth leadership position.\"\n\nThe BSA stated in a 2000 press release that, \"Boy Scouting makes no effort to discover the sexual orientation of any person.\" BSA application forms for youth membership and adult leadership positions do not inquire about the applicants' sexual orientation and do not mention the BSA's policies regarding homosexuality. Membership has still been revoked in cases where an individual is found to be openly homosexual. In 2005, a high-level employee of BSA was fired by the National Council after the organization received a copy of his bill from a gay resort at which he had vacationed. In 2009, the mother of a Vermont Scout and her civil-union partner were prohibited from volunteering for his pack when it was learned they were gay.\n\nThe BSA once again reaffirmed its position in a press release on June 7, 2012 stating:\n\nThe BSA policy is: \"While the BSA does not proactively inquire about the sexual orientation of employees, volunteers, or members, we do not grant membership to individuals who are open or avowed homosexuals or who engage in behavior that would become a distraction to the mission of the BSA. Scouting believes same-sex attraction should be introduced and discussed outside of its program with parents, caregivers, or spiritual advisers, at the appropriate time and in the right setting. The vast majority of parents we serve value this right and do not sign their children up for Scouting for it to introduce or discuss, in any way, these topics. The BSA is a voluntary, private organization that sets policies that are best for the organization. The BSA welcomes all who share its beliefs but does not criticize or condemn those who wish to follow a different path.\"\n\nOn July 17, 2012, at the conclusion of a two-year review, an 11-person committee convened by the BSA reached a \"unanimous consensus\" recommending retaining the current policy. But within the BSA National Executive Board, members James Turley, CEO of Ernst & Young, and Randall Stephenson, CEO of AT&T and who was \"on track to become president of the Scout's national board in 2014\", have publicly opposed the policy and stated their intention \"to work from within the BSA Board to actively encourage dialogue and sustainable progress\" in changing the policy.\n\nOn January 28, 2013, the BSA said it was considering whether to remove its ban on gay leaders and members. \"The policy change under discussion would allow the religious, civic, or educational organizations that oversee and deliver Scouting to determine how to address this issue,\" Deron Smith, public relations director, said in the statement. \"USA Today\" reported the policy change could be adopted at the next National Executive Board meeting, scheduled for February 4–6, 2013. On February 6, the 70 member executive Board announced that it needed \"more time for a deliberate review\" of its policy banning gays and have delayed a final decision until the much larger National Annual Meeting in May 2013 which will have voting representatives from all of the local councils.\n\nOn April 19, 2013, the Boy Scouts of America announced a proposal to no longer deny membership to youth on the basis of sexual orientation, but maintain its ban on openly gay adult leaders. The LDS church released a statement in support of the proposal.\n\nOn May 23, 2013, the 1,400 voting members of the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America voted to lift the ban of letting openly gay individuals into the Scouts by 61% to 38%. Openly gay boys are allowed to become Scouts from January 2014 but openly gay adults were still forbidden to be leaders.\n\nPascal Tessier, a 17-year-old from Chevy Chase, Md., became the first known openly gay Boy Scout to be an Eagle Scout in 2014. Tessier became the first openly gay adult Boy Scout in the nation to be hired as a summer camp leader when he was hired by the Boy Scouts' New York chapter, Greater New York Councils.\n\nIn May 2015, BSA President Robert Gates told the national meeting of the BSA in Atlanta that he believes that the current policy of excluding openly gay adults from leadership positions is \"unsustainable\" and should be changed at an early date. He told the organization that recent events have made it increasingly likely that the BSA will face serious legal challenges to that policy. He advocated removing this exclusion from the BSA's policies but allowing each chartered organization (70% of which are religious organizations) to establish criteria for their units' adult leaders consistent with the organization's values. Gates indicated in subsequent comments that he expected the BSA to take action on his recommendations by October 2015.\n\nOn July 10, 2015, the Boy Scouts of America Executive Committee agreed with Gates, and voted unanimously to approve a policy change that would effectively end the national ban on gay adults. The vote by the Executive Committee required ratification by the National Board prior to enactment. Officials for the Boy Scouts of America stated that the vote would take place later that month. Affirming the decision of the National Executive Committee, on July 27, the National Executive Board voted to lift the organization's ban on openly gay adults. The final vote to approve included 45 votes in favor and 12 votes against.\n\nThe membership controversy and subsequent litigation, some of which has been in response to the 2000 ruling in \"Boy Scouts of America v. Dale\", has prompted a number of expressions of support for the BSA organization, program, or policies. In 2002, the National Executive Board of Boy Scouts of America reiterated its support for the policies and affirmed that \"the Boy Scouts of America shall continue to follow its traditional values and standards of leadership\".\n\nIndividuals, commentators, and conservative groups have spoken out in support of the Boy Scouts of America. The BSA legal website provides a list of editorials written in support of the BSA.\n\nA conservative civil libertarian group, the American Civil Rights Union (not to be confused with the ACLU), set up the Scouting Legal Defense Fund, and routinely helped with lawsuits. In a legal brief filed in support of the BSA, the American Civil Rights Union argued that \"To label [the BSA's membership policies] discriminatory and exclusionary, and a civil rights violation, is an assault on the very freedom of American citizens to advance, promote, and teach traditional moral values.\" In 2000, a group of current and former members of the BSA created the group \"Save Our Scouts\", in order \"to support and defend the principles of the Scout Oath and Law\". This group has subsequently closed as a charity due to failure to file annual reports.\n\nEagle Scout Hans Zeiger, author of \"Get Off My Honor: The Assault on the Boy Scouts of America\", told the \"Washington Times\", \"Scouts' honor is under attack in American culture.\" Zeiger applauds what he sees as the BSA's courage in resisting political pressure, saying, \"Regardless of what leads to homosexuality, it is a thing that has an agenda in our society and is very harmful to the traditional family and is causing a tremendous amount of harm to young men. The Boy Scouts are one of the few organizations that have the moral sense to stand against the homosexual agenda.\"\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), a longtime supporter of the Boy Scouts of America, teaches that homosexual activity is immoral. The LDS Church is the largest single sponsor of Scouting units with over 30,000 units nationwide, which comprise about 13% of BSA's youth members. In 2000, an attorney representing the LDS Church stated that \"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ... would withdraw from Scouting if it were compelled to accept openly homosexual Scout leaders\". This does not differ from the LDS Church policy of allowing \"non-practicing\" self-professed gay members to enjoy all the same rights and privileges as any other church member.\n\nAn LDS spokesman issued a statement \"We caution others not to speculate about our position ... Neither has the [LDS] Church launched any campaign either to effect or prevent a policy change.\"\n\nThe BSA's ban on openly gay members has met with support from the Westboro Baptist Church, whose leader Fred Phelps was himself an Eagle Scout.\n\nIn March 2013, a subgroup of the Scouting community launched \"OnMyHonor.net\", a self-described group \"who are united in their support of Scouting's timeless values and their opposition to open homosexuality in the Scouts.\" The Boy Scouts of America general counsel described OnMyHonor as an \"outside party\" and requested the site cease and desist using official BSA logos on the site.\n\nOn June 12, 2013, the Southern Baptist Convention passed non-binding resolutions urging the BSA not to change their policy.\n\nThere has been opposition to BSA's membership policies from organizations and individuals. Some within the Scouting movement, as well as long-time Scouting supporters, parents, chartered organizations, and religious organizations have expressed opposition to the policies in ways ranging from protests to forming organizations that advocate greater inclusiveness. Some push for a voluntary change within the BSA, others seek involuntary change by filing lawsuits, still others choose to disassociate themselves from the BSA or encourage others to do so.\n\nPerhaps the most vocal opponent of the policies has been the American Civil Liberties Union, which has brought or been a participant in fourteen lawsuits against the Boy Scouts of America from 1981 to March 2006. A few members of the U.S. Congress have also spoken out against the BSA's policies. Since the Dale decision, some Eagle Scouts (about 100) have returned their Eagle Scout badge to the BSA in protest.\n\n\"Scouting\" had reported that the 2013 National Scout Jamboree would be headlined by the band Train and singer Carly Rae Jepsen. In March 2013, both cited the BSA policy on gays as barrier to their performance. Train released a statement saying the group \"strongly opposes any kind of policy that questions the equality of any American citizen ... We look forward to participating in the Jamboree this summer, as long as they make the right decision before then.\" In March, entertainer Madonna made a public appearance dressed as a Scout and called for the ban to be lifted.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist Association's opposition to the BSA's membership exclusions led to a dispute between the organizations. This was resolved in 2016 when the BSA and UUA signed a new Memorandum of Understanding, reestablishing the relationship between the organizations and the UU religious emblems. In 2001, the Union for Reform Judaism's Commission on Social Action, citing a commitment to ending discrimination in all forms, issued a memorandum recommending that congregations stop hosting BSA troops and that parents withdraw their children from all of the Boy Scouts of America's programs. Additionally, the General Synod of the United Church of Christ issued a statement urging the BSA to change policy and stated that \"Discrimination against anyone based on sexual orientation is contrary to our understanding of the teachings of Christ.\"\n\nSome public entities and private institutions have ceased financial or other support of the BSA, primarily as a result of conflicts between their nondiscrimination policies and the BSA's membership policies. About 50 of the 1,300 local United Ways, including those in Cleveland, Miami, Orlando, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Seattle, have withdrawn all funding. The BSA has also lost all funding from several large corporations that had been regular donors, such as Chase Manhattan Bank, Levi Strauss, Fleet Bank, CVS Pharmacy, and Pew Charitable Trusts. For example, Pew Charitable Trusts, which had consistently supported the BSA for over fifty years, decided to cancel a $100,000 donation and cease future donations. On September 22, 2012, Intel, the BSA's largest corporate donor, officially withdrew its financial support from any troop that cannot sign a statement confirming that the troop does not discriminate based on creed or sexual orientation. In November 2012, the UPS Foundation, a philanthropic division of UPS, halted its financial donations, amounting to $85,000 in 2011, to the BSA because of its discrimination based on sexual orientation. In 2012, Merck & Co. stopped its funding due to the policy excluding gays and lesbians. In 2013, restaurant chain Chipotle publicly pulled support over the ban.\n\nOn June 14, Caterpillar Inc. cut its funding of the BSA, saying \"We have inclusive policies here at Caterpillar Inc. [...] We would certainly consider a change in the future grants - if there was a change that aligned with what our non-discrimination policies are.\" A Pennsylvania chapter of the United Way withheld funding over the decision to exclude openly gay leaders.\n\nIn December 2013, Lockheed Martin announced it would end donations to the BSA over the organization's ban on openly gay adults serving as leaders.\n\nThe United Way had ended financial support for the Great Trails Council after it refused to sign a non-discrimination policy. United Way officials stated that such an agreement was not unique.\n\nEagle Scout filmmaker Steven Spielberg had been a long-time supporter of Scouting, depicting a young Indiana Jones as a Boy Scout in the 1989 film \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\" and helping to create the Cinematography merit badge. Spielberg resigned from the BSA Advisory Council in 2001, saying, \"it has deeply saddened me to see the Boy Scouts of America actively and publicly participating in discrimination.\"\n\nIn March 2013, Microsoft founder and former Scout Bill Gates called on the BSA to lift the ban.\n\nThe Democratic and Republican 2012 Presidential candidates - Barack Obama and Mitt Romney - both disagreed with the BSA's policy.\n\nSome troops have ignored the ban for years. Every year when it comes time to renew its charter, troops simply cross out a promise to abide by the Boy Scouts' policies.\n\nIn a 2012 survey asking open-ended questions 5,800 respondents (9%) mentioned the policy in their answers. Of those who did mentioned the policy, 95 percent said the \"reaffirmation of the membership policy negatively impacted their loyalty\" to the BSA.\n\nIn March 2013, the BSA invited its members to take an online survey about the LGBT ban. The survey asked multiple questions, one of which explored the role of gay youth in Scouting:\n\nTom started in the program as a Tiger Cub, and finished every requirement for the Eagle Scout Award at 16 years of age. At his board of review Tom reveals that he is gay. Is it acceptable or unacceptable for the review board to deny his Eagle Scout award based on that admission?\n\nAccord to results released by the BSA, 78% of parents felt it was unacceptable to deny the Scout his Eagle award simply because of his orientation, while only 18% felt it was acceptable. Teens and Scouting Alumni who completed the survey responded similarly.\n\nIn May 2013, the Western Los Angeles County Council, which oversees some 30,000 youth, released a statement calling for a \"true and authentic inclusion policy\" that would allow both gay leaders as well as gay Scouts. Just days before the national vote to include gay Scouts (but not leaders), the Connecticut Yankee Council, which serves about 25,000 Scouts, issued an official statement saying \"Scouting in the Connecticut Yankee Council is open to all youth and adults who subscribe to the values of the Scout Oath and Law regardless of their personal sexual orientation.\"\n\nOn May 22, the sitting president of the BSA, Wayne M. Perry, published an op-ed \"Let in gay boys\" urging passage of the resolution.\n\nAt the BSA annual national meeting of local council representatives in Boston in 2001, nine local councils submitted a resolution to give more discretion for membership and leadership standards to local councils and chartered organizations; this resolution and two others also seeking to liberalize the policy towards homosexuals were considered by the BSA National Executive Board but the initiative failed in 2002. The policy was revised to the current policy in 2004 and reaffirmed in 2012.\n\nNine councils from large metropolitan centers requested the right to define their own membership policies. The proposal was taken to a national relationships committee.\n\nAs a result of unit level non-discrimination policies, charters were revoked from several Cub Scout packs in Oak Park, Illinois. In 2003 the Cradle of Liberty Council in Philadelphia approved a non-discrimination policy, but the national council forced the local council to revoke the policy. National ruled that local councils may not deviate from the national policy of not granting membership to openly gay kids. In 2005 the Cradle of Liberty Council adopted another non-discrimination policy, but in 2006 the city of Philadelphia began asking for a more clear-cut non-discrimination policy. Due to the council's refusal, the city ordered the council to pay fair-market rent for Scout offices in a landmark Philadelphia building where the annual rate had been a dollar, resulting in the \"Cradle of Liberty Council v. City of Philadelphia\" lawsuit, that was ultimately decided in the Scouts' favor and a federal court decision that the city had unfairly targeted the Scouts.\n\nIn April 2014, Boy Scouts of America rescinded the charter of the Boy Scouts troop at Rainier Beach United Methodist Church in Seattle, Washington because their leader was openly gay. The chapter said they would retain the Scout leader and continue to operate without Boy Scouts affiliation.\n\nIn 1991, William Boyce Mueller, a former Cub Scout and grandson of original Boy Scouts of America founder William Dickson Boyce, helped start an advocacy group of gay former Scouts called the \"Forgotten Scouts\".\n\nThe Inclusive Scouting Network, founded in August 2000, is a group promoting an end to the membership biases. Its website, http://www.inclusivescouting.net has been used as the central hub for all of its information and is still currently being used. An award called the Inclusive Scouting Award has been promoted through them for people who are actively trying to better the Scouting experience.\n\nScouting for All sought to promote tolerance and diversity within the BSA. Scouter Dave Rice co-founded Scouting for All in 1993, initially for the purpose of changing the BSA policy on sexual orientation. In 1998, the Boy Scouts of America dismissed him after 59 years of membership for \"involving Scouting youth\" in his effort. Rice, who is not gay, stated that he obeyed all rules and guidelines and that he never misused his leadership status or promoted an agenda during troop meetings. He maintains that the Boy Scouts of America violated its own rules by summarily dismissing him without granting him a chance to present evidence to a regional review board as is required by the BSA's \"Procedures for Maintaining Standards of Membership\".\n\nScouts for Equality has persuaded several United Way groups to remove funding, as well as having Intel end its $700,000 annual support of local troops. The organization also maintains a list of Eagle Scouts who have renounced their Eagle awards.\n\nThe Baden-Powell Service Association (BPSA)is a traditional and inclusive co-ed scouting organization in the United States that takes its name from the Scouting movement founder, Robert Baden-Powell. The BPSA mission statement states \"BPSA welcomes everyone, regardless of race, gender identity, sexual orientation, class, ability, religion (or no religion), or other differentiating factors. Our mission is to provide a positive learning environment within the context of democratic participation and social justice. We foster the development of scouts in an environment of mutual respect and cooperation.\" The BPSA is a member of the World Federation of Independent Scouts (WFIS). The BPSA was founded in 2008 by David Atchley of Washington, Mo., who as a leader of his son's Cub Scout pack had a rift with regional BSA leaders over his efforts to adopt a nondiscrimination code.\n\nThe United Methodist Church, the second-largest sponsor of Scouting units, has taken no public position on the controversy surrounding allowing openly gay leaders in Scouting, although in recent years the Church itself has had an ongoing internal debate regarding whether or not to accept LGBT clergy.\n\nIn 2001, the Boston Minuteman Council in Massachusetts approved a non-discrimination bylaw in regard to sexual orientation while also clarifying that discussions of sexual orientation were not permitted in Scouting. A national Scout spokesperson explained that the council's bylaw did not conflict with national policy. A spokesperson from the Cradle of Liberty Council explained that there is an unofficial \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy regarding sexual orientation. The Scout Executive of the Minuteman Council believes that the local councils have a large amount of autonomy.\n\nHowever, after the Minuteman Council approved its non-discrimination bylaw, it rejected the merit badge application of an openly gay individual whose membership in the BSA had previously been revoked in New Hampshire. The Minuteman Council asserted that \"We will not accept anybody who has had his membership revoked by the national council.\" The United Way ended financial support of the Minuteman Council as a result of the controversy.\n\nThe Boy Scouts of America has been sued because of its membership, leadership, and employment standards. Some of the lawsuits dealt with the BSA's standards that require Scouts and Scouters to believe in God, those in leadership positions to not be openly homosexual, and the exclusion of girls from membership in some programs.\n\nThere has been some opposition to single-sex membership programs and organizations in the United States including some programs of the BSA. The Boy Scouts of America admits only boys to its Cub Scouting and Boy Scouting programs. Several lawsuits involving girls seeking admission to these programs have resulted in court rulings that the BSA is not required to admit girls (see Yeaw v. Boy Scouts of America).\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s,several people attracted media attention when they sued the BSA, attempting to make them accept atheists as members and openly homosexual individuals in leadership positions.\n\nIn 1981, Tim Curran, an openly homosexual former Scout, sued asking that he be accepted as an assistant Scoutmaster (see Curran v. Mount Diablo Council). In 1991, twin brothers William and Michael Randall, who had refused to recite the \"duty to God\" portion of the Cub Scout Promise and Boy Scout Oath, sued to be allowed to continue in the program (see Randall v. Orange County Council and Welsh v. Boy Scouts of America). In addition, there were several other lawsuits involving essentially the same issues. Ultimately, the courts ruled in favor of the Boy Scouts of America in each case.\n\nThe courts have repeatedly held that the Boy Scouts of America, and all private organizations, have a right to set membership standards in accordance with the First Amendment protected concept of freedom of association. In particular, in Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2000 that the BSA's Constitutional right to freedom of association gave the organization the authority to establish its own membership and leadership standards and to expel a gay assistant Scoutmaster.\n\nAfter the Dale decision, public opinion in some communities turned against the BSA; corporations, charities, and even some local governments criticized the policy, threatening to either cut off financial support or block the Boy Scouts from using public buildings for their meetings. While some segments of the public criticized the organization, other groups became more enthusiastic in their support of the Scouts.\n\nSince the Supreme Court's ruling, the focus of lawsuits has shifted to challenging the BSA's relationship with governments in light of their membership policies. A number of lawsuits have been filed by or with the assistance of the American Civil Liberties Union over issues such as government association with the BSA and the conditions under which the BSA may access governmental resources.\n\nCalifornia considered and rejected the Youth Equality Act. This act would ban organizations with tax exemptions \"from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity.\"\n\nA number of public entities (including the cities of Chicago, San Diego, Tempe, Buffalo Grove, Berkeley, and Santa Barbara, as well as the states of California, Illinois, and Connecticut) have canceled charitable donations (of money or preferential land access) that had historically been granted to the Scouts.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) has taken legal action to stop governmental organizations from serving as the chartered organizations (sponsors) of Scouting units in violation of the establishment clause of the First Amendment. The Department of Defense announced in 2004 that it would end direct sponsorship of Scouting units in response to a lawsuit brought by the ACLU. The ACLU's Illinois branch stated that the Boy Scouts discriminated against prospective members who did not want to be sworn in using a religious oath.\n\nThe BSA agreed in 2005 to transfer all charters it had issued to governmental entities to private entities in response to a request from the ACLU. Previously, about 400 Scouting units had been sponsored by U.S. military bases and over 10,000 by other governmental entities, primarily public schools.\n\nHistorically, the BSA (and the Girl Scouts of the USA) has often been granted preferential access to governmental resources such as lands and facilities. In certain municipalities, the conditions under which the Boy Scouts of America can access public and nonpublic governmental resources have become controversial, sometimes resulting in litigation.\n\nWhen a private organization such as the BSA receives access on terms more favorable than other private organizations, it is known as \"special\" or \"preferential\" access whereas \"equal\" access is access on the same terms. For example, state and local governments may lease property to nonprofit groups (such as the BSA) on terms that are preferential to or equal to the terms they offer to commercial groups, in other words they may give nonprofit groups either special or equal access. Special access includes access at a reduced fee (including no fee) or access to places off-limits to other groups. The categorization of access as \"special\" or \"equal\" is not always clear-cut.\n\nSome cities, counties, and states have ordinances or policies that limit government support for organizations that practice some types of discrimination. When the BSA's membership policies are perceived as contrary to these laws, some government organizations have moved to change the terms under which the BSA is allowed to access its resources. Private individuals have filed lawsuits to prevent governmental entities from granting what they see as preferential access. The BSA on the other hand has sued governmental entities for denying what it sees as equal access.\n\nIn response to these changes and litigation, the federal government passed laws mandating that BSA units be given equal access to local and state-level governmental resources. The Boy Scouts of America Equal Access Act, enacted in 2002, requires public elementary and secondary schools that receive U.S. Department of Education funding to provide BSA groups equal access to school facilities. The Support Our Scouts Act of 2005 requires state and local governments that receive HUD funding to provide BSA groups equal access to governmental forums (lands, facilities, etc.). State and local governments still have flexibility regarding the provision of special access to the BSA.\n\nLitigation has challenged the granting of preferential or equal access of the Boy Scouts of America to governmental facilities and resources, but in the majority of cases mentioned, BSA's use of the facilities was sustained:\n\nThe U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate have overwhelmingly passed resolutions in support of the Boy Scouts of America. In November 2004, the House passed a resolution, by a vote of 391 to 3, recognizing \"the Boy Scouts of America for the public service the organization performs\". Then, in February 2005, the House passed a resolution by a vote of 418 to 7, stating that \"the Department of Defense should continue to exercise its long-standing statutory authority to support the activities of the BSA, in particular the periodic national and world Scout jamborees.\"\n\nThe U.S. Congress has twice passed bills in response to the governmental resources access controversy. In 2001, the U.S. Congress passed the Boy Scouts of America Equal Access Act, which was included as part of the No Child Left Behind Act, and which encouraged the BSA's access to educational facilities. In July 2005, the Senate voted 98 to 0 in favor of the Support Our Scouts Act, which was included as part of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act and was enacted in December 2005, which encourages both governmental support of the Boy Scouts in general and federal support of the national Scout jamboree.\n\nSenator Bill Frist, one of the sponsors of the Support Our Scouts Acts, spoke highly of the BSA, saying:\n\nThis unique American institution is committed to preparing our youth for the future by instilling in them values such as honesty, integrity, and character.\n\nOf the Act, Frist explained:\n\nThis legislation will allow the Boy Scouts to fulfill its mission without the distraction of defending itself against senseless attacks.\n\nPresident of the United States William Howard Taft began serving as the first Honorary President of the Boy Scouts of America in 1911; the tradition has been followed by each succeeding U.S. President. In July 2001, President George W. Bush addressed the National Scout Jamboree via videotape and, although he did not directly discuss the controversies, reiterated his support for the organization. Bush commended the Scouts for upholding \"values that build strong families, strong communities, and strong character\" and said that the Scouts' values \"are the values of America.\"\n\nIn January 2009, the American Humanist Association and eighteen other nontheistic organizations sent an open letter to then President-Elect Obama urging him not to serve as the Boy Scouts' honorary president because of the Scouts' positions on religion. Ignoring this, Obama accepted the position of Honorary President and has received the BSA's annual report from groups of Scouts every February from 2009 through 2013.\n\nOn July 29, 2010, President Obama chose not to attend the Scouts' centennial Jamboree, sending a videotaped greeting instead and doing an interview on the daytime talk show \"The View\". This decision was met with criticism, and raised speculation that the President's absence was a subtle protest against the Scouts' policies, or deferring to groups opposed to BSA's policies. However, he did send Secretary of Defense William Gates to represent him, and other Presidents, such as Eisenhower and Reagan, had previously sent representatives to National Jamborees instead of attending personally.\n\nThere are affiliated Scouting organizations in other countries with less restrictive membership criteria than the BSA by choice and/or because of nondiscrimination laws in their lands, as well as organizations with similar policies. In the United States, other major youth organizations tend to have less restrictive policies.\n\nSeveral youth development organizations have formed directly in response to disagreement with BSA's membership policies.\nIn September 2013, a new Scouting group (not affiliated with the BSA) called Trail Life USA (which will not admit openly gay youth) was created. In September 2013, several Baptist congregations, as well as churches from other Christian denominations, replaced their Boy Scouts of America troops with those of Trail Life USA.\n\nThe Boy Scouts of America has belonged to the World Organization of the Scout Movement (WOSM) since its founding in 1922. WOSM has a membership of 155 National Scout Organizations with more than 28 million individuals. Only one Scouting organization per country is recognized by WOSM. In about ten percent of the countries, the National Scout Organization is a federation composed of more than one Scout association; some of the associations in a federation may be for members of a specific religion (e.g., Denmark and France), ethnicity (e.g., Bosnia and Israel), or native language (e.g., Belgium).\n\nOn religion, WOSM states the following about its Fundamental Principles:\n\nUnder the title \"Duty to God\", the first of the above-mentioned principles of the Scout Movement is defined as \"adherence to spiritual principles, loyalty to the religion that expresses them and acceptance of the duties resulting therefrom\". It should be noted that, by contrast to the title, the body of the text does not use the word \"God\", in order to make it clear that the clause also covers religions which are non-monotheistic, such as Hinduism, or those which do not recognize a personal God, such as Buddhism.\nThe value system of the BSA and other Scouting associations may differ; this is evident in the different Scout promises and laws used by associations. Most other Scouting associations laws do not include the very specific wording to be \"reverent\" and \"morally straight\" which BSA added at its founding in 1910. Correspondingly, the membership policies of Scouting associations may differ as well (see Scout Promise and Scout Law).\n\n\"Duty to God\" is a principle of worldwide Scouting and WOSM requires its member National Scout Organizations to reference \"duty to God\" in their Scout Promises (see WOSM Scout Promise requirements). Scouting associations apply this principle to their membership policies in different ways. Scouts Canada defines \"duty to God\" broadly in terms of \"adherence to spiritual principles\" and does not have any explicit policy excluding non-theists. According to the old Equal Opportunities Policy of The Scout Association in the United Kingdom:\n\nTo enable young people to grow into independent adults the Scout method encourages young people to question what they have been taught. Scouts and Venture Scouts who question God's existence, their own spirituality or the structures and beliefs of any or all religions are simply searching for spiritual understanding. This notion of a search for enlightenment is compatible with belief in most of the world's faiths. It is unacceptable to refuse Membership, or question a young person's suitability to continue to participate fully in a Section, if they express doubts about the meaning of the Promise.\nOn January 1, 2014 the Scout Association allowed an additional revised promise \"that can be taken by people with no affirmed faith and humanists\". and changed its Equal Opportunities Policy to state that neither youth nor adults should be discriminated against for, among other reasons, \"religion or belief (including the absence of belief)\".\n\nThe membership policies of Scouting organizations also vary regarding the inclusion of girls, see Coeducational Scouting.\n\nThere have been membership controversies in the past which have been resolved, such as those related to the exclusion of women from some leadership positions, the breakup of Exploring, and racial segregation.\n\nSegregated public schools were declared unconstitutional in 1954 by a unanimous Supreme Court ruling in \"Brown v. Board of Education\", but the Boy Scouts of America included racially segregated units as late as 1974.\n\nIn 1974, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People sued in response to such racial discrimination in Latter-day Saints-affiliated troops. Two 12-year-old black Scouts sought to fill the role of Senior Patrol Leader. Mormon boys enter the lowest level of the priesthood at 12, and the church's rules required that the Senior Patrol Leader be a deacon with the church. Until 1978, Mormon doctrine prohibited people of African descent from being members of the priesthood, and thus black Scouts were prohibited from holding the office of Senior Patrol Leader in Mormon-affiliated troops. The parties ultimately reached settlement.\n\nAn episode of the NBC comedy \"The New Normal\", entitled \"About a Boy Scout\", discusses the controversy.\n\nComedy Central's popular satirical show \"South Park\" parodied BSA's policy in their season 5 episode two, \"Cripple Fight\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "106238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106238", "title": "Cognition", "text": "Cognition\n\nCognition is \"the mental action or process of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience, and the senses\". It encompasses processes such as attention, the formation of knowledge, memory and working memory, judgment and evaluation, reasoning and \"computation\", problem solving and decision making, comprehension and production of language. Cognitive processes use existing knowledge and generate new knowledge.\n\nThe processes are analyzed from different perspectives within different contexts, notably in the fields of linguistics, anesthesia, neuroscience, psychiatry, psychology, education, philosophy, anthropology, biology, systemics, logic, and computer science. These and other different approaches to the analysis of cognition are synthesised in the developing field of cognitive science, a progressively autonomous academic discipline.\n\nThe word \"cognition\" comes from the Latin verb \"cognosco\" (\"con\", 'with', and \"gnōscō\", 'know'; itself a cognate of the Greek verb γι(γ)νώσκω, \"gi(g)nόsko\", meaning 'I know, perceive'), meaning 'to conceptualize' or 'to recognize'.\n\nThe word \"cognition\" dates back to the 15th century, when it meant \"thinking and awareness\". Attention to cognitive processes came about more than eighteen centuries earlier, however, beginning with Aristotle (384–322 BC) and his interest in the inner workings of the mind and how they affect the human experience. Aristotle focused on cognitive areas pertaining to memory, perception, and mental imagery. He placed great importance on ensuring that his studies were based on empirical evidence, that is, scientific information that is gathered through observation and conscientious experimentation. Two millennia later, as psychology emerged as a burgeoning field of study in Europe and then gained a following in America, other scientists like Wilhelm Wundt, Herman Ebbinghaus, Mary Whiton Calkins, and William James would offer their contributions to the study of human cognition.\n\nWilhelm Wundt (1832–1920) emphasized the notion of what he called introspection: examining the inner feelings of an individual. With introspection, the subject had to be careful to describe his or her feelings in the most objective manner possible in order for Wundt to find the information scientific. Though Wundt's contributions are by no means minimal, modern psychologists find his methods to be quite subjective and choose to rely on more objective procedures of experimentation to make conclusions about the human cognitive process.\n\nHermann Ebbinghaus (1850–1909) conducted cognitive studies that mainly examined the function and capacity of human memory. Ebbinghaus developed his own experiment in which he constructed over 2,000 syllables made out of nonexistent words, for instance EAS. He then examined his own personal ability to learn these non-words. He purposely chose non-words as opposed to real words to control for the influence of pre-existing experience on what the words might symbolize, thus enabling easier recollection of them. Ebbinghaus observed and hypothesized a number of variables that may have affected his ability to learn and recall the non-words he created. One of the reasons, he concluded, was the amount of time between the presentation of the list of stimuli and the recitation or recall of same. Ebbinghaus was the first to record and plot a \"learning curve,\" and a \"forgetting curve.\" His work heavily influenced the study of serial position and its effect on memory, discussed in subsequent sections.\n\nMary Whiton Calkins (1863–1930) was an influential American pioneer in the realm of psychology. Her work also focused on the human memory capacity. A common theory, called the recency effect, can be attributed to the studies that she conducted. The recency effect, also discussed in the subsequent experiment section, is the tendency for individuals to be able to accurately recollect the final items presented in a sequence of stimuli. Calkin's theory is closely related to the aforementioned study and conclusion of the memory experiments conducted by Hermann Ebbinghaus.\n\nWilliam James (1842–1910) is another pivotal figure in the history of cognitive science. James was quite discontent with Wundt's emphasis on introspection and Ebbinghaus' use of nonsense stimuli. He instead chose to focus on the human learning experience in everyday life and its importance to the study of cognition. James' most significant contribution to the study and theory of cognition was his textbook \"Principles of Psychology\" that preliminarily examines aspects of cognition such as perception, memory, reasoning, and attention.\n\nIn psychology, the term \"cognition\" is usually used within an information processing view of an individual's psychological functions (see cognitivism), and it is the same in cognitive engineering; in a branch of social psychology called social cognition, the term is used to explain attitudes, attribution, and group dynamics.\n\nHuman cognition is conscious and unconscious, concrete or abstract, as well as intuitive (like knowledge of a language) and conceptual (like a model of a language). It encompasses processes such as memory, association, concept formation, pattern recognition, language, attention, perception, action, problem solving and mental imagery. Traditionally, emotion was not thought of as a cognitive process, but now much research is being undertaken to examine the cognitive psychology of emotion; research is also focused on one's awareness of one's own strategies and methods of cognition, which is called metacognition.\n\nWhile few people would deny that cognitive processes are a function of the brain, a cognitive theory will not necessarily make reference to the brain or to biological processes (compare neurocognitive). It may purely describe behavior in terms of information flow or function. Relatively recent fields of study such as neuropsychology aim to bridge this gap, using cognitive paradigms to understand how the brain implements the information-processing functions (see also cognitive neuroscience), or to understand how pure information-processing systems (e.g., computers) can simulate human cognition (see also artificial intelligence). The branch of psychology that studies brain injury to infer normal cognitive function is called cognitive neuropsychology. The links of cognition to evolutionary demands are studied through the investigation of animal cognition.\n\nFor years, sociologists and psychologists have conducted studies on cognitive development or the construction of human thought or mental processes.\n\nJean Piaget was one of the most important and influential people in the field of Developmental Psychology. He believed that humans are unique in comparison to animals because we have the capacity to do \"abstract symbolic reasoning.\" His work can be compared to Lev Vygotsky, Sigmund Freud, and Erik Erikson who were also great contributors in the field of Developmental Psychology. Today, Piaget is known for studying the cognitive development in children. He studied his own three children and their intellectual development and came up with a theory that describes the stages children pass through during development.\n\nSerial position\n\nThe serial position experiment is meant to test a theory of memory that states that when information is given in a serial manner, we tend to remember information in the beginning of the sequence, called the primacy effect, and information in the end of the sequence, called the recency effect. Consequently, information given in the middle of the sequence is typically forgotten, or not recalled as easily. This study predicts that the recency effect is stronger than the primacy effect, because the information that is most recently learned is still in working memory when asked to be recalled. Information that is learned first still has to go through a retrieval process. This experiment focuses on human memory processes.\n\nWord superiority\n\nThe word superiority experiment presents a subject with a word, or a letter by itself, for a brief period of time, i.e. 40ms, and they are then asked to recall the letter that was in a particular location in the word. By theory, the subject should be better able to correctly recall the letter when it was presented in a word than when it was presented in isolation. This experiment focuses on human speech and language.\n\nBrown-Peterson\n\nIn the Brown-Peterson experiment, participants are briefly presented with a trigram and in one particular version of the experiment, they are then given a distractor task, asking them to identify whether a sequence of words are in fact words, or non-words (due to being misspelled, etc.). After the distractor task, they are asked to recall the trigram from before the distractor task. In theory, the longer the distractor task, the harder it will be for participants to correctly recall the trigram. This experiment focuses on human short-term memory.\n\nMemory span\n\nDuring the memory span experiment, each subject is presented with a sequence of stimuli of the same kind; words depicting objects, numbers, letters that sound similar, and letters that sound dissimilar. After being presented with the stimuli, the subject is asked to recall the sequence of stimuli that they were given in the exact order in which it was given. In one particular version of the experiment, if the subject recalled a list correctly, the list length was increased by one for that type of material, and vice versa if it was recalled incorrectly. The theory is that people have a memory span of about seven items for numbers, the same for letters that sound dissimilar and short words. The memory span is projected to be shorter with letters that sound similar and with longer words.\n\nVisual search\n\nIn one version of the visual search experiment, a participant is presented with a window that displays circles and squares scattered across it. The participant is to identify whether there is a green circle on the window. In the \"featured\" search, the subject is presented with several trial windows that have blue squares or circles and one green circle or no green circle in it at all. In the \"conjunctive\" search, the subject is presented with trial windows that have blue circles or green squares and a present or absent green circle whose presence the participant is asked to identify. What is expected is that in the feature searches, reaction time, that is the time it takes for a participant to identify whether a green circle is present or not, should not change as the number of distractors increases. Conjunctive searches where the target is absent should have a longer reaction time than the conjunctive searches where the target is present. The theory is that in feature searches, it is easy to spot the target, or if it is absent, because of the difference in color between the target and the distractors. In conjunctive searches where the target is absent, reaction time increases because the subject has to look at each shape to determine whether it is the target or not because some of the distractors if not all of them, are the same color as the target stimuli. Conjunctive searches where the target is present take less time because if the target is found, the search between each shape stops.\n\nKnowledge representation\n\nThe semantic network of knowledge representation systems has been studied in various paradigms. One of the oldest paradigms is the leveling and sharpening of stories as they are repeated from memory studied by Bartlett. The semantic differential used factor analysis to determine the main meanings of words, finding that value or \"goodness\" of words is the first factor. More controlled experiments examine the categorical relationships of words in free recall. The hierarchical structure of words has been explicitly mapped in George Miller's Wordnet. More dynamic models of semantic networks have been created and tested with neural network experiments based on computational systems such as latent semantic analysis (LSA), Bayesian analysis, and multidimensional factor analysis. The semantics (meaning) of words is studied by all the disciplines of cognitive science.\n\nAn emergent field of research, referred to as \"Team Cognition\", is arising in military sciences. \"Team cognition\" indicates “an emergent property of teams that results from the interplay of individual cognition and team process behaviors [...] [Team cognition] underlies team performance” (Arizona State University East, 2005, Cooke NJ, 2005).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "245719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245719", "title": "Creative Commons license", "text": "Creative Commons license\n\nA Creative Commons (CC) license is one of several public copyright licenses that enable the free distribution of an otherwise copyrighted \"work\". A CC license is used when an author wants to give other people the right to share, use, and build upon a work that he or she (that author) has created. CC provides an author flexibility (for example, he or she might choose to allow only non-commercial uses of a given work) and protects the people who use or redistribute an author's work from concerns of copyright infringement as long as they abide by the conditions that are specified in the license by which the author distributes the work.\n\nThere are several types of Creative Commons licenses. The licenses differ by several combinations that condition the terms of distribution. They were initially released on December 16, 2002 by Creative Commons, a U.S. non-profit corporation founded in 2001. There have also been five versions of the suite of licenses, numbered 1.0 through 4.0. , the 4.0 license suite is the most current.\n\nIn October 2014 the Open Knowledge Foundation approved the Creative Commons CC BY, CC BY-SA and CC0 licenses as conformant with the \"Open Definition\" for content and data.\n\nWork licensed under a Creative Commons license is governed by applicable copyright law. This allows Creative Commons licenses to be applied to all work falling under copyright, including: books, plays, movies, music, articles, photographs, blogs, and websites.\n\nWhile Software is also governed by copyright law and CC licenses are applicable, the Creative Commons recommends Free and open-source software software licenses instead of Creative Commons licenses. Outside the FOSS licensing use case for software there are to utilize CC licenses to specify a \"Freeware\" license model; examples are The White Chamber, Mari0 or Assault Cube. Also the Free Software Foundation recommends the CC0 as the preferred method of releasing software into the public domain.\n\nThere are over 35,000 works that are available in hardcopy and have a registered ISBN number. Creative Commons splits these works into two categories, one of which encompasses self-published books.\n\nHowever, application of a Creative Commons license may not modify the rights allowed by fair use or fair dealing or exert restrictions which violate copyright exceptions. Furthermore, Creative Commons licenses are non-exclusive and non-revocable. Any work or copies of the work obtained under a Creative Commons license may continue to be used under that license.\n\nIn the case of works protected by multiple Creative Common licenses, the user may choose either.\n\nThe CC licenses all grant the \"baseline rights\", such as the right to distribute the copyrighted work worldwide for non-commercial purposes, and without modification. The details of each of these licenses depend on the version, and comprises a selection out of four conditions:\n\nThe last two clauses are not free content licenses, according to definitions such as DFSG or the Free Software Foundation's standards, and cannot be used in contexts that require these freedoms, such as Wikipedia. For software, Creative Commons includes three free licenses created by other institutions: the BSD License, the GNU LGPL, and the GNU GPL.\n\nMixing and matching these conditions produces sixteen possible combinations, of which eleven are valid Creative Commons licenses and five are not. Of the five invalid combinations, four include both the \"nd\" and \"sa\" clauses, which are mutually exclusive; and one includes none of the clauses. Of the eleven valid combinations, the five that lack the \"by\" clause have been retired because 98% of licensors requested attribution, though they do remain available for reference on the website. This leaves six regularly used licenses + the CC0 public domain waiver:\n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>\n\nFor example, the Creative Commons Attribution (BY) license allows one to share and remix (create derivative works), even for commercial use, so long as attribution is given.\n\nThe original non-localized Creative Commons licenses were written with the U.S. legal system in mind, therefore the wording may be incompatible with local legislation in other jurisdictions, rendering the licenses unenforceable there. To address this issue, Creative Commons asked its affiliates to translate the various licenses to reflect local laws in a process called \"porting.\" As of July 2011, Creative Commons licenses have been ported to over 50 jurisdictions worldwide.\n\nThe latest version 4.0 of the Creative Commons licenses, released on November 25, 2013, are generic licenses that are applicable to most jurisdictions and do not usually require ports. No new ports have been implemented in version 4.0 of the license. Version 4.0 discourages using ported versions and instead acts as a single global license.\n\nSince 2004, all current licenses (beside the CC0 waiver) require attribution of the original author, the BY component. The attribution must be given to \"the best of [one's] ability using the information available\". Generally this implies the following:\n\nThe \"non-commercial\" option included in some Creative Commons licenses is controversial in definition, as it is sometimes unclear what can be considered a non-commercial setting, and application, since its restrictions differ from the principles of open content promoted by other permissive licenses. In 2014 Wikimedia Deutschland published a guide to using Creative Commons licenses as for translations and as PDF.\n\nBesides licenses, Creative Commons also offers through CC0 a way to release material worldwide into the public domain. CC0 is a legal tool for waiving as many rights as legally possible. Or, when not legally possible, CC0 acts as fallback as public domain equivalent license. Development of CC0 began in 2007 and the tool was released in 2009. A major target of the license was the scientific data community.\n\nIn 2010, Creative Commons announced its Public Domain Mark, a tool for labeling works already in the public domain. Together, CC0 and the Public Domain Mark replace the Public Domain Dedication and Certification, which took a U.S.-centric approach and co-mingled distinct operations.\n\nIn 2011, the Free Software Foundation added CC0 to its free software licenses, and currently recommends CC0 as the preferred method of releasing software into the public domain.\n\nIn February 2012 CC0 was submitted to Open Source Initiative (OSI) for their approval. However, controversy arose over its clause which excluded from the scope of the license any relevant patents held by the copyright holder. This clause was added with scientific data in mind rather than software, but some members of the OSI believed it could weaken users' defenses against software patents. As a result, Creative Commons withdrew their submission, and the license is not currently approved by the OSI.\n\nIn 2013, \"Unsplash\" began using the CC0 license to distribute free stock photography. It now distributes several million photos a month and has inspired a host of similar sites, including CC0 photography companies and CC0 blogging companies. Lawrence Lessig, the founder of Creative Commons, has contributed to the site. Unsplash moved from using the CC0 licence to their own similar licence in June 2017, but with a restriction added on using the photos to make a competing service which makes it incompatible with the CC0 licence.\n\nIn October 2014 the Open Knowledge Foundation approved the Creative Commons CC0 as conformant with the \"Open Definition\" and recommend the license to dedicate content to the public domain.\n\nRights in an adaptation can be expressed by a CC license that is compatible with the status or licensing of the original work or works on which the adaptation is based.\n\nThe legal implications of large numbers of works having Creative Commons licensing are difficult to predict, and there is speculation that media creators often lack insight to be able to choose the license which best meets their intent in applying it.\n\nSome works licensed using Creative Commons licenses have been involved in several court cases. Creative Commons itself was not a party to any of these cases; they only involved licensors or licensees of Creative Commons licenses. When the cases went as far as decisions by judges (that is, they were not dismissed for lack of jurisdiction or were not settled privately out of court), they have all validated the legal robustness of Creative Commons public licenses. Here are some notable cases:\n\nIn early 2006, podcaster Adam Curry sued a Dutch tabloid who published photos from Curry's Flickr page without Curry's permission. The photos were licensed under the Creative Commons Non-Commercial license. While the verdict was in favor of Curry, the tabloid avoided having to pay restitution to him as long as they did not repeat the offense. Professor Bernt Hugenholtz, main creator of the Dutch CC license and director of the Institute for Information Law of the University of Amsterdam, commented, \"The Dutch Court's decision is especially noteworthy because it confirms that the conditions of a Creative Commons license automatically apply to the content licensed under it, and binds users of such content even without expressly agreeing to, or having knowledge of, the conditions of the license.\"\n\nIn 2007, Virgin Mobile Australia launched an advertising campaign promoting their cellphone text messaging service using the work of amateur photographers who uploaded their work to Flickr using a Creative Commons-BY (Attribution) license. Users licensing their images this way freed their work for use by any other entity, as long as the original creator was attributed credit, without any other compensation required. Virgin upheld this single restriction by printing a URL leading to the photographer's Flickr page on each of their ads. However, one picture, depicting 15-year-old Alison Chang at a fund-raising carwash for her church, caused some controversy when she sued Virgin Mobile. The photo was taken by Alison's church youth counselor, Justin Ho-Wee Wong, who uploaded the image to Flickr under the Creative Commons license. In 2008, the case (concerning personality rights rather than copyright as such) was thrown out of a Texas court for lack of jurisdiction.\n\nIn the fall of 2006, the collecting society Sociedad General de Autores y Editores (SGAE) in Spain sued Ricardo Andrés Utrera Fernández, owner of a disco bar located in Badajoz who played CC-licensed music. SGAE argued that Fernández should pay royalties for public performance of the music between November 2002 and August 2005. The Lower Court rejected the collecting society's claims because the owner of the bar proved that the music he was using was not managed by the society.\n\nIn February 2006, the Cultural Association Ladinamo (based in Madrid, and represented by Javier de la Cueva) was granted the use of copyleft music in their public activities. The sentence said: \"Admitting the existence of music equipment, a joint evaluation of the evidence practiced, this court is convinced that the defendant prevents communication of works whose management is entrusted to the plaintiff [SGAE], using a repertoire of authors who have not assigned the exploitation of their rights to the SGAE, having at its disposal a database for that purpose and so it is manifested both by the legal representative of the Association and by Manuela Villa Acosta, in charge of the cultural programming of the association, which is compatible with the alternative character of the Association and its integration in the movement called 'copy left'\".\n\nOn June 30, 2010 GateHouse Media filed a lawsuit against That's Great News. GateHouse Media owns a number of local newspapers, including \"Rockford Register Star\", which is based in Rockford, Illinois. That's Great News makes plaques out of newspaper articles and sells them to the people featured in the articles. GateHouse sued That's Great News for copyright infringement and breach of contract. GateHouse claimed that TGN violated the non-commercial and no-derivative works restrictions on GateHouse Creative Commons licensed work when TGN published the material on its website. The case was settled on August 17, 2010, though the settlement was not made public.\n\nThe plaintiff was photographer Art Drauglis, who uploaded several pictures to the photo-sharing website Flickr using Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0 Generic License (CC BY-SA), including one entitled \"Swain's Lock, Montgomery Co., MD.\". The defendant was Kappa Map Group, a map-making company, which downloaded the image and used it in a compilation entitled \"Montgomery Co. Maryland Street Atlas\". Though there was nothing on the cover that indicated the origin of the picture, the text \"\"Photo: Swain's Lock, Montgomery Co., MD Photographer: Carly Lesser & Art Drauglis, Creative Commoms\" \", CC-BY-SA-2.0\"\" appeared at the bottom of the back cover.\n\nThe validity of the CC BY-SA 2.0 as a license was not in dispute. The CC BY-SA 2.0 requires that the licensee to use nothing less restrictive than the CC BY-SA 2.0 terms. The atlas was sold commercially and not for free reuse by others. The dispute was whether Drauglis' license terms that would apply to \"derivative works\" applied to the entire atlas. Drauglis sued the defendants in June 2014 for copyright infringement and license breach, seeking declaratory and injunctive relief, damages, fees, and costs. Drauglis asserted, among other things, that Kappa Map Group \"exceeded the scope of the License because defendant did not publish the Atlas under a license with the same or similar terms as those under which the Photograph was originally licensed.\" The judge dismissed the case on that count, ruling that the atlas was not a derivative work of the photograph in the sense of the license, but rather a collective work. Since the atlas was not a derivative work of the photograph, Kappa Map Group did not need to license the entire atlas under the CC BY-SA 2.0 license. The judge also determined that the work had been properly attributed.\n\nIn particular, the judge determined that it was sufficient to credit the author of the photo as prominently as authors of similar authorship (such as the authors of individual maps contained in the book) and that the name \"CC-BY-SA-2.0\" is sufficiently precise to locate the correct license on the internet and can be considered a valid URI of the license.\n\nThis incident has not been tested in court, but it highlights a potentially disturbing practice. In July 2016, German computer magazine LinuxUser reports that a German blogger Christoph Langner used two licensed photographs from Berlin photographer Dennis Skley on his private blog Linuxundich.de. Langner duly mentioned the author and the license and added a link to the original. Langner was later contacted by the \"Verband zum Schutz geistigen Eigentums im Internet\" (VGSE) (Association for the Protection of Intellectual Property in the Internet) with a demand for €2300 for failing to provide the full name of the work, the full name of the author, the license text, and a source link, as is apparently required by the fine print in the license. Of this sum, €40 goes to the photographer and remainder is retained by VGSE.\n\nCreative Commons maintains a content directory wiki of organizations and projects using Creative Commons licenses. On its website CC also provides case studies of projects using CC licenses across the world. CC licensed content can also be accessed through a number of content directories and search engines (see CC licensed content directories).\n\nDue to either disuse or criticism, a number of previously offered Creative Commons licenses have since been retired, and are no longer recommended for new works. The retired licenses include all licenses lacking the Attribution element other than CC0, as well as the following four licenses:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22972067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22972067", "title": "Dariganga Mongols", "text": "Dariganga Mongols\n\nThe Dariganga (Mongolian: Дарьганга) are an eastern Mongol subgroup who mainly live in Dari Ovoo and Ganga Lake, Sukhbaatar Province.\n\nIt is believed that the Dariganga were resettled by the Qing Dynasty from Chahar, Khalkha and Ööled to herd horses of the Emperor in the late 1690s. \n\nFrom 1912 on, a Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Boghda Khaanate of Mongolia supervised them. And the People's Republic of Mongolia changed their banner system in 1921. After many reforms in Mongolian administration structure, the Dariganga people have lived in the sums: Dariganga, Naran, Ongon, Khalzan, Asgat and Bayandelger of Sukhbaatar Province since 1691.\n"}
{"id": "16677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16677", "title": "Demographics of Kiribati", "text": "Demographics of Kiribati\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Kiribati, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9749628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9749628", "title": "Diamond Fund", "text": "Diamond Fund\n\nThe Diamond Fund () is a unique collection of gems, jewelry and natural nuggets, which are stored and exhibited in the Kremlin Armoury in Russia. The Fund was opened in 1967 and its collection dates back to the Russian Crown treasury instituted by Emperor Peter I of Russia in 1719. It is a part of Moscow Kremlin Museums.\n\nThe gem collection of Peter I, established in 1719, was later stored in the Diamond Chamber (Бриллиантовая комната) in the Winter Palace. All succeeding monarchs added their contributions to the Chamber. A 1922 study by Alexander Fersman identified 85% of all exhibits to be from 1719–1855, to emperors Peter I through Nicholas I, and only 15% attributed from the last three emperors.\n\nCatherine the Great exhibited a particular interest for expensive rocks, even naming her stallion \"Diamond.\" The Diamond Fund received the most contributions from her than any other monarch.\n\nPreservation, sales and looting of Imperial treasures after the Russian Revolution of 1917 are a matter of controversy and speculation. The Imperial collection was moved from Saint Petersburg to Moscow during World War I; the Soviet Diamond Fund was officially established in 1922.\n\nThe treasure was first exhibited to the public in November 1967. Originally a short-term show, it became a permanent exhibition in 1968. During the late Soviet period, the value of the Fund's collection was estimated to be $7 billion.\n\nThe Russian State retains the monopoly for mining and distribution of gemstones, as set by the 1998 law \"On precious metals and precious stones\". Diamond Fund operations are regulated by the 1999 presidential decree (official text). The Diamond Fund is part of a larger State Fund of Precious Stones, managed by the Ministry of Finance, and accumulates the most valuable items, in particular\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Diamond Fund is exhibited in the Kremlin Armoury building. For visitors, it is accessible only through tours of fixed duration due to the limited space inside the Fund. Tours in Russian are organized daily, at twenty-minute intervals. Foreign visitors can receive an audioguide in English, German, French, Spanish, Italian, Chinese or Japanese.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "25459335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25459335", "title": "Economics of gambling", "text": "Economics of gambling\n\nAs a result of gambling, some are driven to extreme lengths to cover debt. Severely addicted gamblers spend most of their energy following their addiction. They cost companies loss of productivity and profit. Gamblers themselves may suffer from depression and bankruptcy. Some may go into severe debt and suffer anxiety because of it. The social costs to society are varied and include unemployment benefits, family services and medical treatment to gamblers.\n\nDuring times of economic success, casinos tend to take labor supply away from neighboring businesses. Since casinos offer higher wages than regular neighboring businesses, such as restaurants, employees leave the neighboring business and works for the casino. Customers who normally go to the neighboring restaurants now instead go to the casino for food. This demonstrates how not all growth by a casino can be attributed as economic growth; sometimes casinos merely transfer growth from other businesses into their own.\n\nGambling provides jobs since all commercial games require labor. Casinos require intensive labor including security guards, technical support staff, gaming staff, among others. In 1996, around 300,000 employees earned a total of US$7.7 billion within the US nation. This number does not include those who are indirectly involved with gambling, such as racing organizers. Employment resulting from gambling is difficult to estimate since gambling involves employees in many different stages. Entertainment is interlinked with gambling as well, for instance, the many shows available in casinos in Las Vegas. Hotel services and chauffeurs are also in higher demand because of gambling. Gambling increases aggregate demand for goods and services in the economy. In 1996, Americans spent one in every ten dollars on commercial gaming. This money goes directly toward stimulating the economy. This expenditure on gambling can also be magnified when considering the multiplier effect.\n\nIn a study by Grinols, it was found that in the US, even though a state may not want to support a gambling institution, it would be economically beneficial for them to do so. If they did not support the institution, there would be many repercussions. This is because, neighboring states have gambling institutions. Residents of the local state will travel to these institutions and gamble nonetheless. This would take away profit and revenue form the resident state. Since these gamblers will gamble anyway, it is economically beneficial for a state to allow and support gambling institutions.\n\nAnother study compared personal income to personal gambling expenditure and found that gambling occurs whether or not the country is in a recession. This aspect will attract states to invest in an institution that is basically recession-proof. During the Early 1990s recession, GGR (Gross Gambling Revenue) increased 9.4% even though the recession slowed personal income to 5.95%. This shows resilience of gambling to the effects of recessions.\n\n"}
{"id": "23319775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23319775", "title": "Ethnic groups in Botswana", "text": "Ethnic groups in Botswana\n\nThe population of Botswana is divided into the main ethnic groups of Tswana people (79%), Kalanga people (11%), and Basarwa (or Bushmen) (3%). The remaining 7% consist of other peoples, including some speaking the Kgalagadi language, and 1% of non-African people.\n\nAbout 79% of the total population speak Setswana as second and first language. The ethnic Tswana is split up among eight tribes: Bamangwato, Bakwena, Bangwaketse, Bakgatla, Barolong, Bamalete, and Batlokwa.\n\n"}
{"id": "19248710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19248710", "title": "Fall Creek massacre", "text": "Fall Creek massacre\n\nThe Fall Creek massacre refers to the slaughter of 9 Native Americans—two men, three women, two boys, and two girls—of uncertain tribal origin on March 22, 1824 by seven white settlers in Madison County, Indiana. The tribal band was living in an encampment along Deer Lick Creek, near the falls at Fall Creek, the site of present-day Pendleton, Indiana. The incident sparked national attention as details of the massacre and trial were reported in newspapers of the day. It was the first documented case in which white Americans were convicted, sentenced to capital punishment, and executed for the murder of Native Americans under U.S. law. Of the seven white men who participated in the crime, six were captured. The other white man, Thomas Harper, was never apprehended. Four of the men were charged with murder and the other two testified for the prosecution. The four accused men were convicted and sentenced to death by hanging. James Hudson was hanged on January 12, 1825, in Madison County, and Andrew Sawyer and John Bridge Sr. were hanged on June 3, 1825. James B. Ray, the governor of Indiana, pardoned John Bridge Jr., the eighteen-year-old son of John Bridge Sr., due to his age and the influence the others may have had on his involvement in the murders.\n\nFew details about the victims are known. The white men knew the Native American men only as Ludlow and Logan. The names of the remaining victims were not recorded. It is possible that the band had a mixed tribal background of Seneca, Shawnee, and Delaware, which was not unusual in the tribes of the region. John Johnson, a federal Indian agent, identified them as a band of Seneca who had come to the area as part of their winter migration from their home base near Lewis Town, Ohio.\n\nIn spite of the case's notoriety and the convictions of the white perpetrators, the massacre did not set a lasting precedent for equal justice under American law. A stone marker in Pendleton's Fall Creek Park commemorates the site of the hangings. A state historical marker along State Road 38 in rural Madison County, close to present-day Markleville, Indiana, identifies the nearby site of the murders. The events also served as the inspiration for \"The Massacre at Fall Creek\", a novel by Jessamyn West, which was published in 1975.\n\nSometime between November 1823 and February 1824, a small party of Indians came to the area along Deer Lick Creek, near the present-day town of Pendleton, Indiana, in Madison County, to hunt, trap, gather furs, and collect maple syrup. The band included three men known to local whites as Logan, Ludlow, and M'Doal (or Mingo), three women, two boys, and two girls. Their tribal origins remain a mystery, although some sources connected to the case, such as the Federal Indian agent, John Johnston, describe them as a mixed band of Seneca and Shawnee from their home village of Lewis Town in northwest Ohio, approximately one hundred miles to the east. Other, slightly later sources, suggest the band included Delaware, Miami, and mixed-race members having some European ancestry. Bands with remnant members from numerous tribes in the Old Northwest were quite common at this time, but the precise ethnic backgrounds of this particular group's members will never be known. They established their camp in Madison County, near a village of white settlers with whom they could trade their goods.\n\nSources reporting the massacre's events suggest the white settlers had developed a friendly relationship with the band, which was headed by Chief Logan, a \"venerable old chief\" and \"a friend of the white men\"; however, historians have proposed that tensions were growing between Ludlow and some of the settlers, most notably James Hudson, Thomas Harper, and John T. Bridge Sr., in the days leading up to the attack. Hudson alleged that he had encountered Ludlow several days prior to the massacre and heard him threaten to kill any white man who disturbed his animal traps. He also accused Ludlow of threatening to harm his wife after she refused to trade with Ludlow several days prior to the attack. Bridge Sr. and Harper had also visited the camp a few days prior to the attack. Hudson later acknowledged that three days prior to the massacre he thought Bridge intended to poison the Native Americans, but decided did not proceed with the idea. Hudson also reported that Ludlow became angry after a dog he had purchased from Harper was later taken away from him.\n\nMore details are known about the background of the victims' attackers. Hudson, who was originally from Baltimore County, Maryland, moved to Kentucky as a boy and later migrated to Ohio before settling with his wife, Phoebe, and their family in Madison County. Harper, a wandering frontiersman who drifted from Butler County, Ohio, into Madison County early in 1824, was an obsessive Indian-hater. Native Americans kidnapped his three-year-old sister, Elizabeth, in 1800, and killed his brother, James, during the War of 1812. Harper was also the brother-in-law of John T. Bridge Sr., who was born in Boston, Massachusetts, and moved to Ohio before migrating to Indiana with his wife, Mary Harper, and their children in 1819. Mary died two years later and Bridge Sr. may have married the sister of a neighbor named Andrew Sawyer, who was also involved in the massacre; however, this has not been confirmed. Little is known of Sawyer's family background.\n\nOn Friday, March 19, 1824, when several local settlers gathered for a house-raising, Harper, Hudson, Sawyer, and others began discussing the Indian presence in the area. The conversation became heated as the men drank liquor and boasted that they would kill any Indian who stole their property or threatened a settler's wife. On Sunday, March 21, the day before the attack, Sawyer came to the Hudson farm to report that two of his horses were missing and asked for help in recapturing them. Harper and Sawyer; Sawyer's son, Stephen; John T. Bridge, Sr.; his two sons, James and 18-year-old John Bridge, Jr.; and a boy named Andrew Jones went on an unsuccessful search for the horses. The men gathered at the Sawyer cabin the following morning to continue the search. During this time Hudson began to suspect that Harper had convinced Sawyer to harm the small group of Native Americans living near Deer Lick Creek, even if they had not been involved in the horse theft.\n\nThe white men approached the band on March 22, 1824. There were just two men in camp with the women and children at the time of their arrival. M'Doal had gone to check his animal traps before the men arrived. Hudson and Sawyer asked Logan and Ludlow for help in tracking the two horses that had escaped from Harper's farm. The two men agreed to help for an agreed upon fee of fifty cents each, and walked with the white men toward the woods, joking as they went. The white men, who had been drinking heavily for several days, were heavily armed with knives and rifles. After a brief stop at an abandoned cabin, where several of the men drank more liquor, the party divided into two groups and continued into the woods. Logan joined Hudson, Bridge Jr., and Jones, while Ludlow went in a different direction with Harper, Andrew and Stephen Sawyer, and James Bridge. James left the group for unknown reasons and was replaced by his father, John Bridge Sr. As Logan moved ahead, the three white men in his group fell behind and Hudson shot him in the back. Bridge Jr. struck Logan in the head with his rifle and stabbed him before the men hid his body in the woods. In the meantime, Harper shot Ludlow in the back as the others in his group watched. Ludlow's body was never recovered.\n\nThe men, with the exception of Hudson, returned to the camp, where they murdered the three women and four children. M'Doal, who was not in camp when they arrived, witnessed the killings as he returned. Although he may have been wounded by gunfire, M'doal escaped into the woods and was never found. In all, Harper's party killed nine people: two men, three women, and four children. The men also stole everything of value before leaving the Indian camp and returning to their farms.\n\nReports of gunfire, the sudden disappearance of the nearby Indians, and conversations that neighbors overheard in the Sawyer and Bridge homes prompted a search party to begin an investigation the following morning. John Adams, a neighbor boy who was staying overnight at the Bridge cabin, overheard the men when they returned home the night of the murders. Bridge Sr. sent the boy home and asked him to return with his father, a local farmer named Abraham Adams, to help search for Sawyer's missing horses. Adams also told his father what he had overheard. Adams and his son went to the Sawyer farm, where they met Bridge Sr., two of Bridge's sons, and Harper. Sawyer informed the men that the horses had come home on their own, but he reported hearing gunfire at the camp. The men went to investigate. Adams realized that the abandoned camp was the scene of the murder after the bodies were discovered nearby. The men also found that one of the women, although injured, had survived the attack, but was unable to clearly explain what had happened. The group left her at the scene and rode off to report it. On Wednesday, March 24, two days after the attack, a second group of men arrived at the camp to find her still alive. They also located Logan's body and buried him at the scene. The surviving woman was taken to a settler's farm, but the owner refused to let her stay, so she was taken to the Bridge's cabin, where she died later that day.\n\nOn Thursday, March 25, within three days of the killings, the authorities arrived to arrest Harper, Bridge Sr., and Bridge Jr.; however, Harper escaped into the woods. Hudson, Jones, and both Sawyer men were arrested shortly thereafter. Within a week they were all in custody, with the exception of Harper, who had taken the stolen goods and fled. He was never captured. Following their arrest Hudson, Bridge Sr., Bridge Jr., and Andrew Sawyer were chained in Madison County's newly built log jail until their trials. Andrew Jones and Stephen Sawyer, who remained free on bond, and John Adams turned state's evidence in the upcoming trials.\n\nNews of the crime spread quickly, and settlers feared retribution from Native Americans living in the local Delaware villages. Native American customs at the time also called for monetary compensation to the victims' families. While the accused men awaited trial, William Conner, a trusted frontiersman, interpreter, and community leader, and John Johnston, and Indian agent residing in Piqua, Ohio, at that time, traveled to the local Indian villages to talk with the people. Johnston and Conner, whose intent was to maintain order, calmed the fears of the white settlers and assured the Native Americans that the men who had attacked their people had been caught and the government would seek justice for their murders. The two men's efforts were successful, and no violence erupted. The threat of retaliation for the murders subsided, but no one knew how long the peace would last.\n\nThe four men who had been arrested were tried in Madison County Court. Seven of the state's top lawyers were hired to defend them. It is unclear whether the men paid for their own legal fees or others paid all or part of their defense. The two lead defense attorneys were Calvin Fletcher and Martin M. Ray, a brother of James Brown Ray, the governor of Indiana. The other defense lawyers were Bethuel F. Morris, William R. Morris, Lot Bloomfield, Charles H. Test, and James Rariden. U.S. Senator James Noble was appointed as special prosecutor to assist two local attorneys, James Gilmore and Cyrus French. Noble selected Harvey Gregg and Philip Sweetser to assist him. Hudson, Bridge Sr., Bridge Jr., and Andrew Sawyer were indicted on April 8, 1824; however, their trials were postponed until October 1824, due to the illness of the circuit court's lead judge, William Wick. While awaiting trial, the prisoners escaped from the county jail on more than one occasion, but were quickly recaptured.\n\nThe Fifth Judicial Circuit Court of Indiana opened in Madison County on October 7, 1824. At that time state law allowed the court only three days to complete its work before adjourning the session. The cases were tried before a three-member circuit court panel, which consisted of Wick, Samuel Holliday, and Adam Winsell. Following the conclusion of other court business, a twelve-member jury was seated for the trials, which generated nationwide attention. The following morning, James Hudson was tried first. Andrew Jones was a key witness for the prosecution; however, the defense called no witnesses on Hudson's behalf. \nThe jury deliberated only an hour before finding Hudson guilty. Some people were surprised by the verdict. Hudson was sentenced to death by hanging, with an execution date set for December 1, 1824. It was the first time any white man in the United States had been sentenced to capital punishment for killing a Native American. The trials for the other three men were postponed.\n\nHudson appealed to the Supreme Court of Indiana, then in session at Corydon, Indiana. The court issued an opinion on November 13, 1824, written by Chief Justice Isaac Blackford that upheld the lower court's decision and rejected all points of Hudson's appeal. Two days later, Hudson escaped from jail and hid beneath the floor of a vacant cabin, where he suffered from frostbite and dehydration. He was recaptured ten days later, when he came out of hiding to find water and was returned to the Madison County jail. While he was missing, the execution date was rescheduled for the following January. On January 12, 1825, a large crowd, which reportedly included several Seneca and Shawnee, gathered to witness the historic execution. The condemned man had to be carried to the gallows due to the frostbite he had suffered while in hiding. Hudson was interred in a nearby cemetery, north of the falls at Fall Creek.\n\nThe trials of the remaining three men, Bridge Sr., Bridge Jr., and Andrew Sawyer, began on May 9, 1825, in the Third Judicial Circuit Court in Madison County. Miles C. Eggleston replaced Wick as one of the three presiding judges. Oliver H. Smith was the chief prosecutor and James Rariden led the defense team. After fifteen hours of deliberation, the jury reached a verdict in Sawyer's case. He was found guilty of manslaughter, not murder, for killing one of the women. His punishment was two years in prison and a fine of one hundred dollars. Bridge Jr. who faced two murder charges in Logan's death, was tried next. The jury found him guilty after three hours of deliberation on both counts; however, they recommended a pardon for the teenager due to the influence of his father and uncle. The jury took only a few minutes to return a guilty verdict for Bridge Sr. To conclude the trials Andrew Sawyer was tried and found guilty of murder. A petition on behalf of Bridge Jr. was signed by ninety-four locals, including many members of the jury, the county clerk, several attorneys, two prison guards, and a minister, and submitted to Governor James Brown Ray. The petition requested a pardon and cited \"his youth, ignorance, and the manner which he was led into the transaction.\" By the appointed date of execution, it had not been answered.\nOn June 3, 1825, another large crowd, including numerous Native Americans, gathered for the executions, which were conducted one at a time. Sawyer was hanged first, followed by the execution of Bridge, Sr. His eighteen-year-old son, John Bridge Jr., witnessed both hangings before being led to the gallows and fitted with a noose and hood. At that point, Governor Ray, who had arrived on horseback, moved through the crowd and stopped the execution. After presenting the pinioned teenage prisoner with a written pardon, the governor announced, \"Here is your pardon. Go sir, and sin no more.\" The young prisoner was immediately set free. A Seneca chief in attendance at the hangings and the dramatic pardon remarked, \"We are satisfied.\"\n\nFuror over the massacre quickly subsided following the trials and hangings of Hudson, Bridge Sr., and Sawyer. The village at the falls of Fall Creek soon faded from the public spotlight and settlers continued to move into the area. Johnston returned to his home in Ohio. The defense and prosecuting attorneys went on to achieve political success. Oliver H. Smith was elected to Congress and James Brown Ray was re-elected as governor. Thomas Harper, the ringleader of the murderers, was never apprehended. It is not known what happened to Andrew Jones and Stephen Sawyer. John Bridge Jr. returned to his home in Butler County, Ohio, where he worked as a farmer. In 1824 he settled in Carroll County, Indiana, where he became a dry goods merchant. He died at Delphi, Indiana, in 1876.\n\nThe prosecutions of the white men for the murders of the Native Americans, which cost the United States government nearly seven thousand dollars, avoided further disruptions in the area. Removal of native tribes from the area east of the Mississippi River continued, as did white settlement along the White River. The guilty verdict from the white jury \"remained an extreme anomaly\". Other acts of violence between whites and native tribes occurred in the decades that followed; however, the events at Fall Creek set a precedent with the trials that recognized the civil rights of Native Americans in a court of law.\n\nComplete details of all the related events remain unknown. The original transcripts of the trials were destroyed in a fire at the Madison County courthouse in 1880, and details gathered from the surviving sources leave behind an incomplete record of conflicting information and disputes over the accuracy of the reports. Two official documents incorrectly recorded that the massacre occurred on April 20, 1824. No written accounts from the victims or other Native Americans living in the area at the time were recorded, and none were called to testify in the legal proceedings. The events near present-day Pendleton, Indiana, remains a part of the area's local history, despite a lack of detailed records, inaccuracies among the sources, and its disappearance from recollections of national events. It also inspired a fictional account of the events in Jessamyn West's novel, \"The Massacre at Fall Creek\", published in 1975.\n\nIn Fall Creek Park in Pendleton, Indiana, a stone marker reads: \"Three white men were hung here in 1825 for killing Indians.\" In 1991 the Pendleton Historic District, which includes the park and this historical marker, was named to the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nIn 1966 the Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission erected an historic highway marker noting the incident along State Route 38, one-half mile east of Markleville, Madison County. It reads: \"In 1824, nine Indians were murdered by white men near this spot. The men were tried, found guilty and hanged. It was the first execution of white men for killing Indians.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "48351612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48351612", "title": "Gang graffiti", "text": "Gang graffiti\n\nGang graffiti is the act of spray painting on walls in certain areas to represent your gang. Gang graffiti started back in the 1960s due to the rivalry between the Bloods and the Crips and Sureños and Norteños, and continued on until the 1992 Los Angeles riots. Today gang graffiti is common in many ghetto neighborhoods.\n"}
{"id": "1428529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1428529", "title": "Genital cutting", "text": "Genital cutting\n\nGenital cutting refers to genital modification and mutilation of the human genitals using a cutting instrument. This terminology is often used in some literature specifically to avoid using the terms 'mutilation' or 'circumcision'. These practices can include:\n"}
{"id": "12468879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12468879", "title": "Immunocomputing", "text": "Immunocomputing\n\nImmunocomputing explores the principles of information processing that proteins and immune networks utilize in order to solve specific complex problems while protected from viruses, noise, errors and intrusions.\n\nIt intends to establish:\n\n\nThe main difference with other kinds of computing lay on the function of its \"basic element\", the formal protein, defined according with its biological prototype and its mathematical model. \n\nThe main biophysical issues considered in immunocomputing are:\n\n\nFormal immune networks (FINs) have as closest model the \"idiotypic network\" of \"N. Jerne\" but they consider specific mechanisms of interactions between proteins. FINs are able to learn, recognize and solve problems.\n"}
{"id": "23208504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23208504", "title": "Indicia (publishing)", "text": "Indicia (publishing)\n\nIndicia is the plural of the Latin word \"indicium\", meaning distinguishing marks.\n\nIn magazine publishing, indicia refers to a piece of text traditionally appearing on the first recto page after the cover, which usually contains the official name of the publication, its publication date, information regarding editorial governance of the publication, and a disclaimer regarding disposition of unsolicited submissions. Placement of indicia has moved away from being exclusively on the inside first recto page. Since 2006, American comic books commonly have indicia on the inside last verso page, while magazines may place their indicia almost anywhere within the publication (often on whichever page has the table of contents).\n\n"}
{"id": "2938750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2938750", "title": "International Strategic Studies Association", "text": "International Strategic Studies Association\n\nThe International Strategic Studies Association (ISSA) describes itself as Washington DC based non-governmental organization (NGO) with a worldwide membership of professionals involved in national management, particularly in national and international security and strategic policy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13953644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13953644", "title": "Iraqi New Zealanders", "text": "Iraqi New Zealanders\n\nIraqi New Zealanders constitute a small population immigrants from Iraq and New Zealand-born people of Iraqi heritage or descent.\n\nThe 2006 census found that 6024 New Zealanders were born in Iraq, although the figure of Iraqi New Zealanders will be higher than this as many New Zealand-born children of Iraqis may consider themselves to be Iraqi New Zealanders. The majority of Iraqi New Zealanders came to New Zealand as refugees during the 1990s and many were Assyrian Christians who had been persecuted for their religion. The greatest concentrations of Iraqis are in Auckland and Wellington.\n\nA large number of Iraqis Christians (Ethnic Chaldeans) live in the North Shore region of Auckland city. These are mainly highly educated Iraqis who were from Baghdad, the capital of Iraq, and Basra city in the south of Iraq. They came under the skilled migrant point system category in the mid 1990s. A large number have settled in the Unsworth Heights and Albany suburbs. The North Shore Iraqi community is one of the fastest growing middle eastern communities in New Zealand. A lot of the Iraqi immigrants had trouble working in their professional fields as there was a lack of employment during the early 1990s; however, by the late 2000s, many had established their own private businesses from private medical clinics to industrial firms.\n\nMany New Zealand born Iraqis still retain aspects of their culture. This includes Iraqi food, drink, art, annual Iraqi New Zealand feasts, and a strong commitment to extended family.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "20235548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20235548", "title": "Jiamao language", "text": "Jiamao language\n\nJiamao (, \"Jiamao\"; also \"Tái\" or \"Sāi\") is a language isolate spoken in southern Hainan, China. Jiamao speakers' autonym is \"tʰai\".\n\nJiamao was long thought to be one of the Hlai languages, which are a subgrouping of the Kra–Dai family, but its many divergent words eventually lead Graham Thurgood (1992) to suggest that it might have an Austroasiatic substratum. Norquest (2007) identified various lexical items in Jiamao that do not reconstruct to Proto-Hlai and later firmly established it as a non-Hlai language.\n\nIn the 1980s, Jiamao was spoken by 50,000 people in central and south-central Hainan, mostly in Jiamao Township (加茂镇) in Baoting Li and Miao Autonomous County. It shares less than half of its lexicon with the Hlai languages.\n\nIn Lingshui Li Autonomous County, Jiamao is spoken in Benhao 本号, Nanping 南平, Wenluo 文罗, Zuguan 祖关, Longguang 隆广, and Tianzi 田仔. In Lingshui County, Jiamao is known as \"Tái 台\", and is also known as \"Sāi\" 塞 or \"Jiāwǒ\" 加我. In Qiongzhong Li and Miao Autonomous County, it is spoken in Zhongping Town 中平镇 and Shengpo Farm 乘坡农场, in a total of 30 villages.\n\nThere are four Jiamao dialects, namely Jiamao 加茂, Liugong 六弓, Tianzi 田仔, and Qunying 群英.\n\nJiamao is spoken in the following villages and townships of southern Hainan.\n\nThe Liaoergong 廖二弓 dialect is documented in Huang (2011).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11398506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11398506", "title": "Jingpho language", "text": "Jingpho language\n\nJingpho (\"Jinghpaw, Chingp'o\") or Kachin ( ) is a Tibeto-Burman language of the Sal branch mainly spoken in Kachin State, Burma and Yunnan, China. There are a lot of meanings for Jinghpo. In the Jinghpo language, Jinghpo means people.. The term \"Kachin language\" can refer either to the Jingpho language or to a group of languages spoken by various ethnic groups in the same region as Jingpo: Lisu, Lashi, Rawang, Zaiwa, Lhao Vo, Achang and Jingpho. These languages are from distinct branches of the highest level of the Tibeto-Burman family. The Jingpho alphabet is based on the Latin script. Now, the Jinghpo language is also widely written in Burmese script.\n\nThe ethnic Jingpho (or Kachin) are the primary speakers of Jingpho language, numbering approximately 900,000 speakers. The Turung of Assam in India speak a Jingpho dialect with many Assamese loanwords, called \"Singpho\".\n\nJingpho syllable finals can consist of vowels, nasals, or oral stops.\n\nThere are at least 16 Jingphoish (Kachinic) varieties (Kurabe 2014:59). The demographic and location information listed below is drawn from Kurabe (2014). Standard Jingpho and Nkhum are the best described varieties, whereas the Jingphoish varieties of India have been recently documented by Stephen Morey. Jingphoish varieties in northern Kachin State remain underdescribed.\n\nThe \"Ethnologue\" lists Duleng (Dalaung, Dulong), Dzili (Jili), Hkaku (Hka-Hku), and Kauri (Gauri, Guari, Hkauri). According to the Ethnologue, Dzili might be a separate language, whereas Hkaku and Kauri are only slightly different.\n\nOther underdescribed Jingphoish varieties include Mungji and Zawbung. Shanke is a recently described language closely related to Jingpho, although its speakers identify themselves as Naga.\n\n\nSmall pockets of Jingpho speakers are also scattered across Gengma County 耿马县, including the following villages (Dai Qingxia 2010). Dai (2010) also includes 1,000-word vocabulary lists of the Yingjiang 盈江, Xinzhai 新寨, and Caoba 草坝 dialects.\n\n\nSingpho (Northwestern Jingphoish) varieties of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, India include the following.\n\nKurabe (2014) classifies seven Jingphoish dialects as follows.\n\nThe Southern branch is characterized the loss of Proto-Jingpho final stop *-k in some lexical items. The Northern branch is characterized by the following mergers of Proto-Jingpho phonemes (Kurabe 2014:60).\n\nJingpho has verbal morphology that marks the subject and the direct object. Here is one example (the tonemes are not marked). The verb is 'to be' (rai).\n\nThe Jingpho writing system is a Latin-based alphabet consisting of 23 letters, and very little use of diacritical marks, originally created by American Baptist missionaries in the late 19th century. It is considered one of the simplest writing systems of the Tibeto-Burman languages, as other languages utilise their own alphabets, such as abugidas or syllabary.\n\nOla Hanson, one of the first people to establish an alphabet, arrived in Myanmar in 1890, learned the language and wrote the first Kachin–English dictionary. In 1965, the alphabet was reformed. Today, the Burmese alphabet is also used to write the Jingpho language:\n\nJingpho (Jinghpaw) language has five tones. For example:\n\n\nTones are not usually marked in writing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55746813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55746813", "title": "Judith Walker Andrews", "text": "Judith Walker Andrews\n\nJudith Walker Andrews (April 26, 1826 – August 29, 1914) was an American philanthropist and social reformer.\n\nHer brother, Dr. Clement A. Walker, was appointed in charge of the hospital for the insane in Boston, and Andrews joined him there to assist in the work in which she was deeply interested. Her work in this line was of great value. From 1889, she was very much interested in the child-widows of India and formed an association to carry out the plans of Pandita Ramabai. Andrews and her co-workers managed a school at Puna, Gujarat, India.\n\nJudith Walker was born in Fryeburg, Maine, April 26, 1826. She was educated in Fryeburgh Academy with the intention, so common with New England girls, of becoming a teacher. Her brother. \n\nDr. Clement A. Walker, one of the first of the new school of physicians for the insane, having been appointed to the charge of the newly established hospital of the city of Boston, his sister joined him there. Although never officially connected with the institution, which had already gained a reputation as a pioneer in improved administration of the work for the insane, Andrews interested herself in the details of that administration, and by her personal attention to the patients endeared herself to them. No better school of training could be found in that day for the activities to which she gave her life. She was married while in the institution, on January 15, 1857, to Joseph Andrews (died 1869), of Salem, Massachusetts, who gave much time and labor to the improvement of the militia system of the commonwealth, both before and during the American Civil War. They had three children, all boys, and she attended to their education.\n\nRemoving to Boston in 1863, she became a member of the South Congregational Church (Unitarian), and in 1876 was elected president of its ladies' organization, the South Friendly Society. Her service of 16 years in that office was only one of five such terms in the history of the society. Under the influence of its pastor, Dr. Edward Everett Hale, the South Congregational Church had wide relations both inside and outside denominational lines, and these relations brought to Andrews opportunities for religious and philanthropic work to which she was always ready to respond. While most of these, though requiring much work and thought, were of a local character, two lines of her work made her name familiar to a large circle. Elected, in 1886, president of the Women's Auxiliary Conference, she was active in the movement to enlarge its scope and usefulness, and in 1889, when the National Alliance of Unitarian and Other Liberal Christian Women was organized, she became its first president, declining re-election in 1891. From 1889, she was a member of the Council of the National Unitarian Conference. Having become interested in the child-widows of India, through the eloquence, and later the personal friendship, of Pandita Ramabai, Andrews was largely instrumental in the formation of the Ramabai Association, to carry out the plans of Ramabai and to systematize the work of her friends throughout the country. To the executive committee of that association, of which Andrews was chairman from the beginning, was entrusted the oversight of the management of the school for child-widows, the Sharada Sadana at Poona and the settlement of the many delicate questions arising from a work so opposed to the customs though fortunately not to the best traditions, of India. She died August 29, 1914, in Boston, and was buried at Harmony Grove Cemetery, in Salem.\n\n"}
{"id": "11277276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11277276", "title": "Lavinia Burnett", "text": "Lavinia Burnett\n\nLavinia Burnett (1785 - November 8, 1845) was the first woman to be executed by the state of Arkansas.\n\nBorn Lavinia May Sharp, she married Virginia native Crawford Burnett on December 29, 1810 in Patrick County. Sometime during 1820's, they moved to Trigg County, Kentucky and lived in the home of Crawford's brother Cornelius. Sometime later, Lavinia and Crawford eventually settled in Arkansas. They had at least two children, John (b. 1811), and Minerva (b. 1820).\n\nLavinia and Crawford were arrested for the shooting murder of Jonathan Selby, who lived near Fayetteville and allegedly kept large sums of money at his residence. Their 15-year-old daughter Minerva and Hardin Sharp, Lavinia's brother or cousin, \"confessed\" to authorities that their relatives had planned Selby's murder, and John Burnett, Lavinia and Crawford's son, had carried it out.\n\nCrawford Burnett's attorney made a motion before Crawford's trial to be dismissed as his attorney. This motion was granted. Crawford Burnett, being probably not guilty of the murder itself, refused to testify against his wife.\n\nDuring Lavinia's trial, a motion to omit the testimony of one Hardin Sharp, a relative of Lavinia's, was denied. The motion was brought on behalf of Lavinia's attorney because it was said that Hardin was an accomplice to the murder. \n\nLavinia and Crawford were sentenced to death in October 1845. Their hangings were reportedly well attended. John Burnett, their son, had fled to Benton, Missouri, where he was arrested. He was found guilty on December 4, 1845, and hanged 22 days later on the same scaffold where his parents met their deaths.\n\nThe Prosecutor was Alfred Burton Greenwood. The defense attorneys were, Isaac Strain, James P. Neal and Isaac Murphy. \n\nHardin Sharp moved to Benton, Missouri where he married Lucinda Beck (1850 census) then both to Jobe, Missouri (1880 census). Minerva Burnett is said to have moved to Texas after the trial and hanging. Minerva (B. 26 Jan 1830 D. 29 Nov 1905 Wolf City TX) married Jonas W. Williams (B. 18 May 1818 D. 18 Dec 1883 Wolf City TX) 2 years after her parents death.\n"}
{"id": "54787775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54787775", "title": "Lee Ellis", "text": "Lee Ellis\n\nAltis Lee Ellis (born March 1, 1942) is an American sociologist who was a professor of sociology at Minot State University from 1976 to 2007. He was also an assistant and associate professor there from 1976 to 2009, after which he served as a visiting professor at the University of Malaya from 2010 to 2012. \nEllis grew up on a farm near Iola, Kansas. He received his B.A. in sociology from Pittsburg State University in Kansas in 1966, where he went on to receive his M.S. in sociology in 1970. He then received his Ph.D. in criminology from Florida State University in 1983.\nEllis is known for researching the potential biological roots of sexual orientation, and organized a conference on the subject that occurred in May 1995. He has also studied the potential for the use of thyroid and obesity medications during pregnancy to increase the odds of children being homosexual. He has also studied numerous other topics, such as the relationships between obesity in women and the number of children they give birth to, the link between left-handedness and mortality, and the effect one's genes have on the career they end up working in.\n"}
{"id": "34258585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258585", "title": "Let's Do It! World", "text": "Let's Do It! World\n\nLet's Do It! World is a global civic movement that started from Estonia, asking people worldwide to join a series of local, national and regional clean-up events. Among other projects, it is the founder of World Cleanup Day.\n\nThe Let's Do It! movement was first conceived in Estonia in year 2008, where a country clean-up action called Let's do it! (in Estonian: \"Teeme Ära!\") cleaned up 10,000 tons of illegal waste by more than 50,000 volunteers in one day. Following Estonia's lead many countries also started their own country clean-up events. In 2011 a new initiative called Let's do it! World was started with the aim of promoting massive clean-ups from 24 March 2012 till 15 September 2012. After a successful World Cleanup 2012 project the next bigger goal is to have World Cleanup Day in 2018.\n\nToday, the movement has grown into a network of 113 countries. All together, 14 million participants have been engaged in movement's activities.\n\nLet's Do It! World is an accredited member of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).\n\nSince 2017, the movement uses W sign aka Three Fingers Up as a symbol. \n\nOn the 3rd of May 2008 over 50,000 people came out of their homes to clean up Estonia, the rest followed the process via all the media channels. That's 4% out of a population of 1,3 million - which would equal 15,3 million in the USA or 57 million in India. The idea spread from Estonia to the whole Europe and beyond. Next spring, in 2009, Latvia and Lithuania cleaned their countries with more than 250,000 people participating and have done it henceforth for three years, engaging more people each year. On 20 March 2010 Portugal cleaned their country with 200,000 people. Slovenia followed shortly, breaking all records with 270,000 people (which is 13% of the overall population of the country) taking part in the action. In the beginning of June the same year, Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine was cleaned. By the end of 2011 more than 2.5 million people have participated in Let’s Do It! cleanup actions in 16 countries – Estonia, India, Slovenia, Serbia, Finland, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine, Cambodia, Russia, Hungary and Brazil.\n\nIn 2012, starting from 24 March until 25 September, a series of cleanups happened around the globe, on all continents, bringing together millions of volunteers in 96 countries. The action was initiated on 24 March 2012 by volunteers in Slovenia and Portugal.\n\nTo bring together doers and initiators and share existing experience – Let's Do It! teams were organizing workshops and regional gatherings, introducing the World Cleanup 2012 around the world. Each group or organisation was leading the cleanup action in their country.\nAfter a successful World Cleanup 2012 project, the network set more ambitious goals. During the Let's Do It! Clean World Conference held in Prishtina, Kosovo on the 6th-9th of February 2014, it was agreed, that the aim of the global movement is to clean up the whole World from illegally dumped solid waste and to then keep the planet clean. To reach the essential transformation in the global society, the leaders of country cleanups set the ambitious goal to involve 380 million people by 2018. According to Let's Do It! World, this is around 5% of the world’s population and is estimated to be the amount to create a lasting change.\n\nThe most massive cleanup actions (data: October 2014) within the movement have happened in Slovenia, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Kosovo and in Albania.\n\nIn 2012, 289,000 Slovenians came out of the homes and cleaned up the entire country in just one day. This is 14% of the country's population.\n\nIn 2013, 375,000 cleaned up the country in Bulgaria in a one-day country cleanup action (13,9% of country's population).\n\nIn 2012, 210,000 people (10% of country's population) cleaned up Latvia from illegal waste in just one day.\n\nIn 2013, a massive civic cleanup action also took place in Kosovo, bringing together 132,000 people (7% of the population) and in the same year, Albania also had a massive cleanup action, uniting 147,000 people (5,25%) to clean up the country in just one day.\n\nIn 2015, 250,000 people (8,6% of country's population) cleaned up Lithuania from illegal waste in one day.\n\nIn 2015, over 500,000 people participated in Let's Do It! actions in Ukraine cleaning up illegal dump-sites around the country. \n\nAround 15 millions people in 158 countries took part on the World Clean Up Day, the 15th of September 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25606437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25606437", "title": "List of Sengunthars", "text": "List of Sengunthars\n\nThis is a list of notable people of the Sengunthar or Kaikkolar caste found in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu and in the Northern province of Sri Lanka.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14220933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14220933", "title": "Mexicans of European descent", "text": "Mexicans of European descent\n\nMexicans of European descent or European Mexicans, are Mexican citizens of complete or predominant European descent. While the Mexican government does conduct ethnic censuses on which a Mexican has the option of identifying as “White” the results obtained from these censuses are not published. What Mexico's government publish instead, is the percentage of “light-skinned Mexicans” there is in the country, with it being 47% in 2010 and 49% in 2017. Due its not as direct racial undertone, the label “Light-skinned Mexican” has been favored by the government and media outlets over “White Mexican” as the go-to choice to refer to the segment of Mexico's population who possesses European physical traits when discussing different ethno-racial dynamics in Mexico‘s society. Sometimes nonetheless, “White Mexican” is used.\n\nEstimates of Mexico's white population differ greatly in both, methodology and percentages given, extra-official sources such as the \"World Factbook\" and \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", which use the 1921 census results as the base of their estimations calculate Mexico's White population as only 9% or between one tenth to one fifth (the results of the 1921 census, however, have been contested by various historians and deemed inaccurate). Surveys that account for phenotypical traits and have performed actual field research suggest rather higher percentages: using the presence of blond hair as reference to classify a Mexican as white, the Metropolitan Autonomous University of Mexico calculated the percentage of said ethnic group at 23%. With a similar methodology, the American Sociological Association obtained a percentage of 18.8%. Another study made by the University College London in collaboration with Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History found that the frequencies of blond hair and light eyes in Mexicans are of 18% and 28% respectively, nationwide surveys in the general population that use as reference skin color such as those made by Mexico's National Council to Prevent Discrimination and Mexico's National Institute of Statistics and Geography report percentages of 47% and 49% respectivelly.\n\nEuropeans began arriving in Mexico during the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire; and while during the colonial period most European immigration was Spanish, in the 19th and 20th centuries European and European-derived populations from North and South America did immigrate to the country. According to 20th and 21st century academics, large scale intermixing between the European immigrants and the native Indigenous peoples would produce a Mestizo group which would become the overwhelming majority of Mexico's population by the time of the Mexican Revolution. However, according to church and censal registers from the colonial times, the majority (73%) of Spanish men married with Spanish women. Said registers also put in question other narratives held by contemporary academics, such as European immigrants who arrived to Mexico being almost exclusively men or that \"pure Spanish\" people were all part of a small powerful elite, as Spaniards were often the most numerous ethnic group in the colonial cities and there were menial workers and people in poverty who were of complete Spanish origin.\n\nAnother ethnic group in Mexico, the Mestizos, is characterized by having people with varying degrees of European ancestry, with some showing a European genetic ancestry higher than 90%. However, the criteria for defining what constitutes a Mestizo varies from study to study as in Mexico a large number of white people have been historically classified as Mestizos because after the Mexican revolution the Mexican government began defining ethnicity on cultural standards (mainly the language spoken) rather than racial ones.\n\nContrary to popular belief, Mexico's government does conduct ethnic censuses on which a Mexican has the choice of identify as “White”, the results, however, remain unpublished. Instead the Mexican government does publish results regarding the frequencies of different phenotypical traits in Mexicans such as skin color, and in discourses and investigations regarding problematics such as racism has opted for spliting Mexicans on “light skinned Mexicans” and “dark skinned Mexicans” rather than on “White Mexicans” and “Mestizo Mexicans”. Other studies use the presence of light hair colors (particularly blond) to calculate Mexico's white population.\n\nMexico's northern and western regions have the highest percentages of White population, with the majority of the people not having native admixture or being of predominantly European ancestry, resembling in aspect that of northern Spaniards. In the north and west of Mexico, the indigenous tribes were substantially smaller than those found in central and southern Mexico, and also much less organized, thus they remained isolated from the rest of the population or even in some cases were hostile towards Mexican colonists. The northeast region, in which the indigenous population was eliminated by early European settlers, became the region with the highest proportion of whites during the Spanish colonial period. However, recent immigrants from southern Mexico have been changing, to some degree, its demographic trends.\nIn 2010, the CONAPRED (Mexico's National Council for the Prevention of Discrimination) conducted the ENADIS 2010 (National Survey About Discrimination) with the purpose of addressing the problems of racism that Mexicans of mainly Indigenous or African ancestry suffer at hands of a society that favors light-skinned, European-looking Mexicans. In the press release of said report, the CONAPRED stated that 47% of Mexicans (54% of women and 40% of men) identified with the lightest skin colors used in the census questionnaire. The council makes the supposition that the high difference reported between males and females is due the \"frequently racist publicity in media and due racial prejudices in Mexico's society which shuns dark skin in favor of light skin, thus making women think that white is beautiful,\" the report also states that men do not suffer this problem and thus have no problem recognizing their real skin color. However, a subsequent question in the same survey contradicts said supposition, as it asks Mexicans to evaluate, from 0 to 10 how comfortable they are with their skin color, with the average result being 9.4 out of ten. Furthermore, scientific research proving that human females tend to have lighter skin than their male counterparts exists.\n\nBesides the visual identification of skin color, the same survey included a question on which it asked Mexicans \"what would they call their skin color?\" while the press report by the CONAPRED remarks that six out of ten people considered themselves to be \"moreno\" (brunette in English) and only one out of ten considered their skin to be \"blanco\" (white) the actual questionnaire included as choices other words who are colloquially used to refer to white people in Mexico such as \"Güero\" (informal for white), \"Claro\" (clear), \"Aperlado\" (Pearly) and other words who may or not refer to a white person depending of the case, such as \"Quemadito\" (Burnt), \"Bronceado\" (Tanned), \"Apiñonado\" (Spiced), \"Amarillo\" (Yellow) and \"Canela\" (Cinnamon). Further complicating the situation, several words used specifically for brown skin also appear as choices such as \"Café\" (Brown), \"Negro\" (Black), \"Chocolate\" (translation unnecessary), \"Oscuro\" (Dark), \"Prieto\" (Very dark) and \"Trigueño\" (other word for brown). The word \"moreno\" itself has a very wide definition in Mexico and has no specific racial connotations, being used equally to define light-skinned people with dark hair as to define people of African ancestry.\nIn 2017, Mexico's National Institute of Statistics and Geography published the Intergenerational Social Mobility Module (MMSI), composed of a series of nationwide surveys focused on education, generational economic mobility and ethnicity, it's particularly notorious for giving Mexicans the possibility to identify with a race (the aviable choices being “Indigenous”, “Mestizo”, “White” and “Other”). While the results of questions directly related to race were published, the percentage of Mexicans who identified with each race was not. Also included in the survey was a color palette (the same as the one used in the PERLA project: composed of 11 different tones with “A” being the darkest and “K” being the lightest) so a person could chose what color the skin of his/her face was. The percentage of Mexicans that identified with each skin color was not included in the main MMSI document but unlike racial composotion it was made public through other official publications. Unlike the survey published by the CONAPRED in 2010, the results of this study received enormous media coverage, with media outlets bringing to Mexico's mainstream opinion circles concepts such as systemic racism, white privilege and colonialism. as the study concluded that Mexicans with medium (“F” tone) and darker skin tones have in average lower profile occupations than Mexicans with lighter skin tones. Also stated is that Mexicans with lighter skin tones (lighter than “F”) have higher levels of academic achievement. The study also points out that out of the 4 racial categories used in the study, that of Indigenous Mexicans is the one that shows the highest percentage of positive social mobility (meaning that a person is better off than his/her parents were) while White Mexicans are the ones who have the lowest positive social mobility. Said section of the study, alongside the ones who did not address race, received almost no media coverage.\n\nIn 2018, the new edition of the ENADIS was published, this time being a joint effort by the CONAPRED and the INEGI with collaboration of the UNAM, the CONACyT and the CNDH. Like it's 2010 antecesor, it surveyed Mexican citizens about topics related to discrimination and collected data related to phenotype and ethnic self-identification. It concluded that Mexico is still a fairly conservative country regarding minority groups such as religious minorities, ethnic minorities, foreigners, members of the LGBT collective etc. albeit there's pronounced regional differences, with states in the south-center regions of Mexico having in general notoriously higher discrimination rates towards the aforementioned social groups than the ones states in the western-north regions have. For the collecting of data related to skin color the palette used was again the PERLA one. This time 11% of Mexicans were reported to have \"dark skin tones (A-E)\" 59% to have \"medium skin tones (F-G)\" and 29% to have \"ligh skin tones (H-K)\". The reason for the huge difference regarding the reported percentages of Mexicans with light skin (around 18% lower) and medium skin (around 16% higher) in the relation to previous nationwide surveys lies in the fact that the ENADIS 2017 prioritized the surveying of Mexicans from \"vulnerable groups\" which among other measures meant that states with known high numbers of people from said groups surveyed more people. \n\nIndependent field studies have been made in attempt to quantify the number of European Mexicans living in modern Mexico, using blond hair as reference to classify a Mexican as white, the Metropolitan Autonomous University of Mexico calculated their percentage at 23%, the study explicitly states that red-haired people were not classified as white but as \"other.\" A study made by the University College London which included multiple Latin American countries and was made with collaboration of each country's anthropology and genetics institutes reported that the frequency of blond hair and light eyes in Mexicans was of 18.5% and 28.5% respectively, making Mexico the country with the second-highest frequency of blond hair in the study. Despite this, the European ancestry estimated for Mexicans is also the second-lowest of all countries included, the reason behind such discrepancy may lie in the fact that the samples used in Mexico's case were highly disproportional, as the northern and western regions of Mexico contain 45% of Mexico's population, but no more than 10% of the samples used in the study came from the states located in these regions. For the most part, the rest of the samples hailed from Mexico City and southern Mexican states.\n\nIn 2010 a study published by the American Sociological Association explored social inequalities between Mexicans of different skin colors. The field research consisted of three waves of interviews on different Mexican states during the timespan of a year, people surveyed where split on 3 different groups: \"White,\" \"Light brown\" and \"Dark brown,\" with the classification being up to the criteria of the interviewers who is claimed, were trained for the task. It is stated that, in order to obtain stable results and prevent inconsistencies regarding who belongs to a given category, additional phenotypical traits besides the respondents’ skin color were considered, such as the presence of blond hair in the case of individuals that were to be classified in the \"White\" category, because \"unlike skin color, hair color does not darken with exposure to sunlight.\" It is indeed claimed within the study that out of the three color categories used, the percentages obtained for the \"White\" one through the three waves of interviews were the most consistent. According to the results of the study, the average percentage of Mexicans who were classified as \"White\" per the presence of blond hair was 18.8%, with the Northeast and Northwest regions having the highest frequencies at 23.9% and 22.3% respectively, followed by the Center region with 21.3%, the Center-West region with 18.4% and finally the South region with 11.9%. The study makes the acclaration that Mexico city (Center region) as well as rural areas of the states of Oaxaca, Chiapas (both from the south region) and Jalisco (Center-West region) were oversampled.\n\nA study performed in hospitals of Mexico City reported that in average 51.8% of Mexican newborns presented the congenital skin birthmark known as the Mongolian spot whilst it was absent in 48.2% of the analyzed babies. The Mongolian spot appears with a very high frequency (85-95%) in Asian, Native American and African children. The skin lesion reportedly almost always appears on South American and Mexican children who are racially Mestizos\nwhile having a very low frequency (5-10%) in Caucasian children. According to the Mexican Social Security Institute (shortened as IMSS) nationwide, around half of Mexican babies have the Mongolian spot.\n\nAccording to the 2010 US Census, 52.8% of Mexican Americans identified as being White.\n\nGenetic research in the Mexican population is numerous and has yielded a myriad of different results, it is not rare that different genetic studies done in the same location vary greatly, clear examples of said variation are the city of Monterrey in the state of Nuevo León, which, depending of the study presents an average European ancestry ranging from 38% to 78%, and Mexico City, whose European admixture ranges from as little as 21%\nto as high as 70%, reasons behind such variation may include the socioeconomic background of the analyzed samples as well as the criteria to recruit volunteers: some studies only analyze Mexicans who self-identify as Mestizos, others may classify the entire Mexican population as \"mestizo\", other studies may do both, such as the 2009 genetic study published by the INMEGEN (Mexico's National Institute of Genomic Medicine), which states that 93% of the Mexican population is Mestizo with the remaining population being Amerindian, this particular statement has received considerable media exposure through the years to dismay of scientists from the aforementioned institute, who have complained about the study being misinterpreted by the press as it wasn't meant to represent Mexico's population as a whole. According to the methodology of the aforementioned study the institute only recruited people who explicitly self-identified as Mestizos. Finally there are studies which avoid using any racial classification whatsoever, including in them any person who self-identifies as Mexican; these studies are the ones that usually report the highest European admixture for a given location.\n\nThe Mestizaje ideology, which has blurred the lines of race at an institutional level has also had a significative influence in genetic studies done in Mexico: As the criteria used in studies to determine if a Mexican is Mestizo or indigenous often lies in cultural traits such as the language spoken instead of racial self-identification or a phenotype-based selection there are studies on which populations who are considered to be Indigenous per virtue of the language spoken show a higher degree of European genetic admixture than the one populations considered to be Mestizo report in other studies. The opposite also happens, as there instances on which populations considered to be Mestizo show genetic frequencies very similar to continental European peoples in the case of Mestizos from the state of Durango or to European derived Americans in the case of Mestizos from the state of Jalisco.\n\nRegardless of the criteria used, all the autosomal DNA studies made coincide on there being a significant genetic variation depending of the region analyzed, with southern Mexico having prevalent Amerindian and small but higher than average African genetic contributions, the central region of Mexico shows a balance between Amerindian and European components, with the later gradually increasing as one travels northwards and westwards, where European ancestry becomes the majority of the genetic contribution up until cities located in the Mexico-United States border, where studies suggest there is a significant resurgence of Amerindian and African admixture.\n\nTo date, no genetic research focusing on Mexicans of complete or predominant European ancestry has been made.\n\nA 2014 publication summarizing population genetics research in Mexico, including three nationwide surveys and several region-specific surveys, found that in the studies done to date, counting only studies that looked at the ancestry of both parents (autosomal ancestry): \"Amerindian ancestry is most prevalent (51% to 56%) in the three general estimates, followed by European ancestry (40% to 45%); the African share represents only 2% to 5%. In Mexico City, the European contribution was estimated as 21% to 32% in six of the seven reports, with the anomalous value of 57% obtained in a single sample of 19 subjects. European ancestry is most prevalent in the north (Chihuahua, 50%; Sonora, 62%; Nuevo León, 55%), but in a recent sample from Nuevo León and elsewhere in the country, Amerindian ancestry is dominant.\"\n\nA 2006 nationwide autosomal study, the first ever conducted by Mexico's National Institute of Genomic Medicine (INMEGEN), which included the states of Guerrero, Oaxaca, Veracruz, Yucatan, Zacatecas and Sonora reported that self-identified Mestizo Mexicans are 58.96% European, 35.05% \"Asian\" (primarily Amerindian), and 5.03% Other.\n\nAn autosomal ancestry study performed on Mexico city reported that the European ancestry of Mexicans was 52% with the rest being Amerindian and a small African contribution, additionally maternal ancestry was analyzed, with 47% being of European origin. The only criteria for sample selection was that the volunteers self-identified as Mexicans.\n\nThe presence of Europeans in what is nowadays known as Mexico dates back to the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire in the early 16th century by Hernán Cortés, his troops and a number of indigenous city states who were tributaries and rivals of the Aztecs, such as the Totonacs, the Tlaxcaltecas and Texcocans among others. There are stories about Moctezuma taking Cortés to be the return of the God Quetzalcoatl due to his light skin and light-colored hair and eyes, which had never been seen before by the people of Mesoamerica. However, this has been disputed. After years of war the coalition led by Cortés finally managed to conquer the Aztec Empire which would result on the foundation of the Viceroyalty of New Spain and while this new state granted a series of privileges to the members of the allied indigenous tribes such as nobiliary titles and swathes of land, the Spanish held the most political and economic power. The small number of Spaniards who inhabited the new kingdom would soon be complemented by a steady migration flow of Spanish people, as it was the interest of the Spanish crown to Hispanicize and Christianize the region given that Indigenous peoples and their customs were considered uncivilized, thus the Spanish language and culture were imposed and indigenous ones suppressed.\nThe Mexican experience mirrors much of that of the rest of Latin America, as attitudes towards race, including identification, were set by the conquistadors and Spanish who came soon after. Through the colonial period, the Spanish and their descendants, called \"criollos\" remained outnumbered by the indigenous and \"mestizos\" or those of mixed Spanish and indigenous parents (albeit a person of 7/8 Spanish ancestry and 1/8 or less indigenous ancestry could be considered to be \"criollo\").\nTo keep power, the Spanish enforced a hierarchical class system in New Spain's society, with those born in Spain (known as \"Peninsulares\") being the most privileged, followed by criollos, then Mestizos, then the indigenous and finally the Africans. Nonetheless the system was not completely rigid and elements such as social class, social relations and who a person descended from did figure into it. However, the notion of \"Spanishness\" would remain at the top and \"Indianness\" would be at the bottom, with those mixed being somewhere in the middle. This idea remained officially in force through the rest of the colonial period.\n\nCriollo resentment of the privileges afforded to the \"Peninsulares\" was the main reason behind the Mexican War of Independence. When the war ended in 1821, the new Mexican government expelled the peninsulares (approximately 10,000 – 20,000 people) in the 1820s and 1830s which at a degree, kept the European ethnicity from growing as a percentage; this expulsion however, did not lead to any permanent ban on European immigrants, even from Spain. Independence did not do away with economic and social privilege based on race as the Criollos took over those of Spanish birth. A division between \"Spanish\" and \"indigenous\" remained with Criollos distinguishing themselves from the rest of society as the guardians of Spanish culture as well as the Catholic religion. Due the abolition of the caste system the division, however, became more about money and social class and less about biological differences which widened the possibilities of social mobility for Mestizo and Indigenous Mexicans. For this reason many of the political and cultural struggles of the latter 19th and early 20th centuries would be between the Criollos and the Mestizos.\n\nAccording to Mexico's first ever racial census published in 1793, the Eurodescendant population was between 18%-22% of the population (with Mestizos being 21%-25% and Amerindians being 51%-61%) but by 1921, when the second nationwide census that considered a person's race took place, only 9% of the population self identified as being of European descent, with 59% being Mestizo and 29% being Amerindian. While for a long time the 1921 census' results were taken as fact, with international publications such as \"The World Factbook\" and Encyclopædia Britannica using them as a reference to estimate Mexico's racial composition up to this day, in recent time Mexican academics have subjected them to scrutiny, claiming that such a drastic alteration on demographic trends is not possible and cite, among other statistics the relatively low frequency of marriages between people of different continental ancestries. The authors claim that the Mexican society went through a \"more cultural than biological mestizaje process\" sponsored by the state which resulted on the inflation of the percentage of the Mestizo Mexican group at the expense of the identity of other races. It is important to note that the Mexican academics who question the census numbers are doing so primarily on behalf of Indigenous peoples, who they claim have been forcefully classified as Mestizos but state or suggest nonetheless, that the same thing has happened to European Mexicans.\n\nHistorically, racial and ethnic classification has been closely related with Mexico's society. However, since the end of the Mexican Revolution, the official identity promoted by the government for non-indigenous Mexicans has been the Mestizo one (a mix of European and indigenous culture and heritage). Installed with the original intent of eliminating divisions and creating a unified identity that would allow Mexico to modernize and integrate into the international community, the Mestizo identity has not been able to achieve its goal. The reason for this is speculated to be the identity's own internal contradictions, as it includes in the same theorical race people who, in daily interactions, do not consider each other to be of the same race and have little in common biologically, with some of them being entirely Indigenous, others entirely European and including also Africans and Asians.\nToday, there is no definitive census that quantifies Mexico's white population, with estimations from different publications varying greatly, ranging from just 9% of the total to 47%, with this figure being based on phenotypical traits instead of self-identification of ancestry.\nThe lack of a clear defining line between white and mixed race Mexicans has made the concept of race relatively fluid, with descent being more of a determining factor than biological traits. Even though there is large variation in phenotypes among Mexicans, European looks are still strongly preferred in Mexican society, with lighter skin receiving more positive attention as it is associated with higher social class, power, money and modernity. In contrast, Indigenous ancestry is often associated with having an inferior social class as well as lower levels of education. These distinctions are strongest in Mexico City, where the most powerful of the country's elite are located.\nDespite what the mestizaje discourse asserts, Mexico is a country where Eurodescendants are not a minority, neither a clear majority but rather exist on an even amount in relation to Mestizos. Because of this even though the Mexican government has not used racial terms related to European or white people officially for almost a century, the concepts of \"white people\" (known as \"güeros\" or \"blancos\" in Mexican Spanish) and of \"being white\" still exist and are present on everyday Mexican culture: different idioms of race are used in Mexico's society that serve as mediating terms between racial groups. It is not strange to see street vendors calling a potential costumer \"\"Güero\" or \"güerito\"\", sometimes even when the person is not light-skinned. In this instance it is used to initiate a kind of familiarity, but in cases where social/racial tensions are relatively high, it can have the opposite effect.\n\nThis widespread preference that Mexicans, even those who are of predominant indigenous ancestry show to European cultures and values over Indigenous ones has come to be known as \"malinchismo\" which means to identify or favor a North American or European culture over the native one. It derives from La Malinche, the native interpreter who allied with Hernán Cortés during the Conquest. The story is still an important social imagery for Mexicans. Examples of practices considered as \"malinchismo\" in modern Mexico include Mexican parents choosing English given names for their kids, due the desire to be associated with the United States.\n\nMexicans of European descent are strongly associated with the history of the Spanish in the country as Mexico has not had the history of mass immigration that other New World countries such as the United States, Brazil and Argentina have had which would populate large extensions of unhabited territory and/or help to assimilate the relatively less numerous indigenous population. White Mexicans rather, descend of a considerably ethnocentrist group of Spanish people who, beginning with the arrival and establishment of the conquistadors to then be supplemented with clerics, workers, academics etc. immigrated to what today is Mexico. The criollos (as people born the colonies to Spanish parents were called until the beginning of the 20th century) would favor for marriage other Spanish immigrants even if they were of a less privileged economic class than them, as to preserve the Spanish lineage and customs was seen as the top priority. Once Mexico achieved its independence and immigration from European countries other than Spain became accepted, the criollos did the same, and sought to assimilate the new European immigrants into the overwhelmingly Spanish-origin white Mexican population, as the yearly immigration rate of Europeans to Mexico never exceeded 2% in relation to the country's total population, assimilation of the new immigrants was easy and Mexican hyphenienated identities never appeared.\nAnother way on which European immigration to Mexico differed from that of other New World countries was on the profile of the needed immigrant. As New Spain's main economic activities were not related to agriculture (and the manpower for it was already supplied by the converted indigenous population) but mining, the country didn't enforce any sort of programs that would make it an attractive destination for European farmers. On the other hand, there was a high demand for people with specialized education in fields such as geology, metallurgy, commerce, laws, medicine etc. As stories of professional immigrants amassing huge wealth in a pair of years were commonly heard, New Spain became very attractive only for Europeans who filled these profiles and their families, which in the end resulted on the country getting relatively less European immigration, is also because of the aforementioned reasons that the majority of Spanish immigrants who arrived to the country were from the northern regions of Spain, mainly Cantabria, Navarra, Galicia and the Basque Country. After the war of independence, the country's almost completely European elite would associate civilization with European characteristics, blaming the country's indigenous heritage for its inability to keep up with the economic development of the rest of the world. This led to active efforts to encourage the arrival of additional European immigrants. \nOne of these efforts was the dispossession of large tracts of land from the Catholic Church with the aim of selling them to immigrants and others who would develop them. However, this did not have the desired effect mostly because of political instability. The Porfirio Díaz regime of the decades before the Mexican Revolution tried again, and expressly desired European immigration to promote modernization, instill Protestant work ethics and buttress what remained of Mexico's North from further U.S. expansionism. Díaz also expressed a desire to \"whiten\" Mexico's heavily racially mixed population, although this had more to do with culture than with biological traits. However, the Díaz regime knew it had to be cautious, as previously large concentrations of Americans in Texas, would eventually lead to the secession of that territory. This precautions meant that the government had more success luring investors than permanent residents, even in rural areas despite government programs. No more than forty foreign farming colonies were ever formed during this time and of these only a few Italian and German ones survived.\nBy the mid-19th century, between Europeans and ethnically European Americans and Canadians, there were only 30,000 to 40,000 European immigrants in Mexico, compared to an overall population of over eight million, but their impact was strongly felt as they came to dominate the textile industry and various areas of commerce and industry, incentivating the industrialization of the country. Many of these immigrants were not really immigrants at all, but rather \"trade conquistadors\" who remained in Mexico only long enough to make their fortunes to return to their home countries to retire. This led Diaz to nationalize industries dominated by foreigners such as trains, which would cause many trade conquistadors to leave. In January 1883, the Government signed a law to promote the Irish, German and French immigration to Mexico, this time there were less restrictions, resulting in the arrival of relatively more conventional immigrants and their families. Up to 1914, 10 000 French settled in Mexico, alongside other 100,000 Europeans. Despite being the most violent conflict in Mexico's history, the Mexican Revolution did not discourage European immigration nor scared away white Mexicans, who, for concentrating in urban areas were largely unaffected by it and thought of it as a conflict pertinent only to rural people. Later on, bellic conflicts in Europe during the 1930s and 1940s such as the Spanish Civil War and the Second World War caused additional waves of European immigration to the country.\nBy the end of the Second World War, Americans, British, French, Germans and Spanish were the most conspicuous Europeans in Mexico but their presence was limited to urban areas, especially Mexico City, living in enclaves and involved in business. These European immigrants would quickly adapt to the Mexican attitude that \"whiter was better\" and keep themselves separate from the non-European population of the host country. This and their status as foreigners offered them considerable social and economic advantages, blunting any inclination to assimilate. There was little incentive to integrate with the general Mexican population and when they did, it was limited to the criollo upper class, failing to produce the \"whitening\" effect desired. For this reason, one can find non–Spanish surnames among Mexico's elite, especially in Mexico City.\nHowever, even in the cases when generalized mixing did occur, such as with the Cornish miners in Hidalgo state around Pachuca and Real de Monte, their cultural influence remains strong. In these areas, English style houses can be found, the signature dish is the \"paste\" a variation of the Cornish pasty and they ended up introducing football (soccer) to Mexico. In the early 20th century, a group of about 100 Russian immigrants, mostly Pryguny and some Molokane and Cossacks came to live in area near Ensenada, Baja California. The main colony is in the Valle de Guadalupe and locally known as the Colonia Rusa near the town of Francisco Zarco. Other smaller colonies include San Antonio, Mision del Orno and Punta Banda. There are an estimated 1,000 descendants of these immigrants in Mexico, nearly all of whom have intermarried. The original settlements are now under the preservation of the Mexican government and have become tourist attractions.\n\nLegal vestiges of attempts to \"whiten\" the population ended with the 1947 \"Ley General de Población\" along with the blurring of the lines between most of Mexico immigrant colonies and the general population. This blurring was hastened by the rise of a Mexican middle class, who enrolled their children in schools for foreigners and foreign organizations such as the German Club having a majority of Mexican members. However, this assimilation still has been mostly limited to Mexico's white peoples. Mass culture promoted the Spanish language and most other European languages have declined and almost disappeared. Restrictive immigration policies since the 1970s have further pushed the assimilation process. Despite all of the aforementioned pressure, as of 2013 Mexico is the country with most international immigrants in the world. Since 2000, Mexico's economic growth has increased international migration to the country, including people of European descent who leave their countries (particularly France and Spain) in the search of better work opportunities. People from the United States have moved too, now making up more than three-quarters of Mexico's roughly one million documented foreigners, up from around two-thirds in 2000. Nowadays, more people originally from United States have been added to the population of Mexico than Mexicans have been added to the population of the United States, according to government data in both nations.\n\nOne of the few Porfirian-era European settlements to survive to this day is centered on the small town of Chipilo in the state of Puebla. They are the descendants of about 500 Italian refugee immigrants which came over in the 1880s, keeping their Venetian-derived dialect and distinct ethnic identity, even though many have intermarried with other Mexicans. Many still farm and raise livestock but economic changes have pushed many into industry.\n\nDuring the Mexican Revolution, Álvaro Obregón invited a group of German-speaking Mennonites in Canada to resettle in Chihuahua state. By the late 1920s, almost 10,000 had arrived from both Canada and Europe. Today, Mexico accounts for about 42% of all Mennonites in Latin America. Mennonites in the country stand out because of their light skin, hair and eyes. They are a largely insular community that speaks Plautdietsch and wear traditional clothing. They own their own businesses in various communities in Chihuahua, and account for about half of the state's farm economy, standing out in cheese production.\n\nImmigration was restricted by governments after Diaz's but never stopped entirely during the 20th century. Between 1937 and 1948, more than 18,000 Spanish Republicans arrived as refugees from the Francisco Franco dictatorship. Their reception by the Mexican criollo elite was mixed but they manage to experience success as most of these newcomers were educated as scholars and artists. This group founded the Colegio de Mexico, one of the country's top academic institutions. Another, smaller group from this time period were Jewish immigrants fleeing Hitler. Despite attempts to assimilate these immigrant groups, especially the country's already existing German population during World War II, they remain mostly separate to this day.\n\nDue to the 2008 Financial Crisis and the resulting economic decline and high unemployment in Spain, many Spaniards have been emigrating to Mexico to seek new opportunities. For example, during the last quarter of 2012, a number of 7,630 work permits were granted to Spaniards.\n\nSixty-seven percent of Latin America's English-speaking population lives in Mexico. Most of these are American nationals, with in influx of people from the U.S. coming to live in Mexico since the 1930s, becoming the largest group of foreigners in the country since then. However, most Americans in Mexico are not immigrants in the traditional sense, as they are there living as retirees or otherwise do not consider themselves permanent residents.\n\nHistorically, population studies and censuses have never been up to the standards that a population as diverse and numerous such as Mexico's require: the first racial census was made in 1793, being also Mexico's (then known as New Spain) first ever nationwide population census, of it, only part of the original datasets survive, thus most of what is known of it comes from essays made by researchers who back in the day used the census' findings as reference for their own works. More than a century would pass until the Mexican government conducted a new racial census in 1921 (some sources assert that the census of 1895 included a comprehensive racial classification, however according to the historic archives of Mexico's National Institute of Statistics that was not the case). While the 1921 census was the last time the Mexican government conducted a census that included a comprehensive racial classification, in recent time it has conducted nationwide surveys to quantify most of the ethnic groups who inhabit the country as well as the social dynamics and inequalities between them.\n\nAlso known as the \"Revillagigedo census\" due to its creation being ordered by the Count of the same name, this census was Mexico's (then known as the Viceroyalty of New Spain) first ever nationwide population census. Most of its original datasets have reportedly been lost; thus most of what is known about it nowadays comes from essays and field investigations made by academics who had access to the census data and used it as reference for their works such as Prussian geographer Alexander von Humboldt. Each author gives different estimations for each racial group in the country, although they don't vary much, with Europeans ranging from 18% to 22% of New Spain's population, Mestizos ranging from 21% to 25%, Indians ranging from 51% to 61% and Africans being between 6,000 and 10,000, The estimations given for the total population range from 3,799,561 to 6,122,354. It is concluded then, that across nearly three centuries of colonization, the population growth trends of whites and mestizos were even, while the total percentage of the indigenous population decreased at a rate of 13%-17% per century. The authors assert that rather than whites and mestizos having higher birthrates, the reason for the indigenous population's numbers decreasing lies on them suffering of higher mortality rates, due living in remote locations rather than on cities and towns founded by the Spanish colonists or being at war with them. It is also for these reasons that the number of Indigenous Mexicans presents the greater variation range between publications, as in cases their numbers in a given location were estimated rather than counted, leading to possible overestimations in some provinces and possible underestimations in others.\n~\n\nRegardless of the possible imprecisions related to the counting of Indigenous peoples living outside of the colonized areas, the effort that New Spain's authorities put on considering them as subjects is worth mentioning, as censuses made by other colonial or post-colonial countries did not consider American Indians to be citizens/subjects, as example the censuses made by the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata would only count the inhabitants of the colonized settlements. Other example would be the censuses made by the United States, that did not include Indigenous peoples living among the general population until 1860, and indigenous peoples as a whole until 1900.\n\nMade right after the consummation of the Mexican revolution, the social context on which this census was made makes it particularly unique, as the government of the time was in the process of rebuilding the country and was looking forward to unite all Mexicans under a single national identity. The 1921 census' final results in regards to race, which assert that 59.3% of the Mexican population self-identified as Mestizo, 29.1% as Indigenous and only 9.8% as White were then essential to cement the \"mestizaje\" ideology (that asserts that the Mexican population as a whole is product of the admixture of all races) which shaped Mexican identity and culture through the 20th century and remain prominent nowadays, with extraofficial international publications such as \"The World Factbook\" and Encyclopædia Britannica using them as a reference to estimate Mexico's racial composition up to this day.\n\nNonetheless, in recent time the census' results have been subjected to scrutiny by historians, academics and social activists alike, who assert that such drastic alterations on demographic trends with respect to the 1793 census are not possible and cite, among other statistics the relatively low frequency of marriages between people of different continental ancestries in colonial and early independent Mexico. It is claimed that the \"mestizaje\" process sponsored by the state was more \"cultural than biological\" which resulted on the numbers of the Mestizo Mexican group being inflated at the expense of the identity of other races. Controversies aside, this census constituted the last time the Mexican Government conducted a comprehensive racial census with the breakdown by states being the following (foreigners and people who answered \"other\" not included):\n\nWhen the 1921 census's results are compared with the results of Mexico's recent censuses as well as with modern genetic research, high consistence is found in regards to the distribution of Indigenous Mexicans across the country, with states located in south and south-eastern Mexico having both, the highest percentages of population that self-identifies as Indigenous and the highest percentages of Amerindian genetic ancestry. However this is not the case when it comes to European Mexicans, as there are instances on which states that have been shown to have a considerably high European ancestry per scientific research are reported to have very small white populations in the 1921 census, with the most extreme case being that of the state of Durango, where the aforementioned census asserts that only 0.01% of the state's population (33 persons) self-identified as \"white\" while modern scientific research shows that the population of Durango has similar genetic frequencies to those found on European peoples (with the state's Indigenous population showing almost no foreign admixture either). Various authors theorize that the reason for these inconsistencies may lie in the Mestizo identity promoted by the Mexican government, which reportedly led to people who are not biologically Mestizos to identify as such.\n\nThe following table is a compilation of (when possible) official nationwide surveys conducted by the Mexican government who have attempted to quantify different Mexican ethnic groups. Given that for the most part each ethnic group was estimated by different surveys, with different methodologies and years apart rather than on a single comprehensive racial census, some groups could overlap with others and be overestimated or underestimated.\n\nOf all the ethnic groups that have been surveyed, Mestizos are notably absent, which is likely due the label's fluid and subjective definition, which complicates its precise quantification. However, it can be safely assumed that Mestizos make up at least the remaining 30% unassessed percentage of Mexico's population with possibilities of increasing if the methodologies of the extant surveys are considered. As example the 2015 intercensal survey considered as Indigenous Mexicans and Afro-Mexicans altogether individuals who self-identified as \"part Indigenous\" or \"part African\" thus, said people technically would be Mestizos. Similarly, White Mexicans were quantified based on physical traits/appearance, thus technically a Mestizo with a percentage of Indigenous ancestry that was low enough to not affect his/her primarily European phenotype was considered to be white. Finally the remaining ethnicities, for being of a rather low number or being faiths have more permissive classification criteria, therefore a Mestizo could claim to belong to one of them by practicing the faith, or by having an ancestor who belonged to said ethnicities.\n\nNonetheless, contemporary sociologists and historians agree that, given that the concept of \"race\" has a psychological foundation rather than a biological one and to society's eyes a Mestizo with a high percentage of European ancestry is considered \"white\" and a Mestizo with a high percentage of Indigenous ancestry is considered \"Indian,\" a person who identifies with a given ethnic group should be allowed to, even if biologically doesn't completely belong to that group.\n\n"}
{"id": "43424809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43424809", "title": "Nanoremediation", "text": "Nanoremediation\n\nNanoremediation is the use of nanoparticles for environmental remediation. It is being explored to treat ground water, wastewater, soil, sediment, or other contaminated environmental materials.\nNanoremediation is an emerging industry; by 2009, nanoremediation technologies had been documented in at least 44 cleanup sites around the world, predominantly in the United States. In Europe, nanoremediation is being investigated by the EC funded NanoRem Project. A report produced by the NanoRem consortium has identified around 70 nanoremediation projects worldwide at pilot or full scale. During nanoremediation, a nanoparticle agent must be brought into contact with the target contaminant under conditions that allow a detoxifying or immobilizing reaction. This process typically involves a pump-and-treat process or \"in situ\" application.\n\nSome nanoremediation methods, particularly the use of nano zero-valent iron for groundwater cleanup, have been deployed at full-scale cleanup sites. Other methods remain in research phases.\n\nNanoremediation has been most widely used for groundwater treatment, with additional extensive research in wastewater treatment. Nanoremediation has also been tested for soil and sediment cleanup. Even more preliminary research is exploring the use of nanoparticles to remove toxic materials from gases.\n\nCurrently, groundwater remediation is the most common commercial application of nanoremediation technologies.\nUsing nanomaterials, especially zero-valent metals (ZVMs), for groundwater remediation is an emerging approach that is promising due to the availability and effectiveness of many nanomaterials for degrading or sequestering contaminants.\n\nNanotechnology offers the potential to effectively treat contaminants \"in situ\", avoiding excavation or the need to pump contaminated water out of the ground. The process begins with nanoparticles being injected into a contaminated aquifer via an injection well. The nanoparticles are then transported by groundwater flow to the source of contamination. Upon contact, nanoparticles can sequester contaminants (via adsorption or complexation), immobilizing them, or they can degrade the contaminants to less harmful compounds. Contaminant transformations are typically redox reactions. When the nanoparticle is the oxidant or reductant, it is considered reactive.\n\nThe ability to inject nanoparticles to the subsurface and transport them to the contaminant source is imperative for successful treatment. Reactive nanoparticles can be injected into a well where they will then be transported down gradient to the contaminated area. Drilling and packing a well is quite expensive. Direct push wells cost less than drilled wells and are the most often used delivery tool for remediation with nanoiron. A nanoparticle slurry can be injected along the vertical range of the probe to provide treatment to specific aquifer regions.\n\nThe use of various nanomaterials, including carbon nanotubes and TiO, shows promise for treatment of surface water, including for purification, disinfection, and desalination. Target contaminants in surface waters include heavy metals, organic contaminants, and pathogens. In this context, nanoparticles may be used as sorbents, as reactive agents (photocatalysts or redox agents), or in membranes used for nanofiltration.\n\nNanoparticles may assist in detecting trace levels of contaminants in field settings, contributing to effective remediation. Instruments that can operate outside of a laboratory often are not sensitive enough to detect trace contaminants. Rapid, portable, and cost-effective measurement systems for trace contaminants in groundwater and other environmental media would thus enhance contaminant detection and cleanup. One potential method is to separate the analyte from the sample and concentrate them to a smaller volume, easing detection and measurement. When small quantities of solid sorbents are used to absorb the target for concentration, this method is referred to as solid-phase microextraction.\n\nWith their high reactivity and large surface area, nanoparticles may be effective sorbents to help concentrate target contaminants for solid-phase microextraction, particularly in the form of self-assembled monolayers on mesoporous supports. The mesoporous silica structure, made through a surfactant templated sol-gel process, gives these self-assembled monolayers high surface area and a rigid open pore structure. This material may be an effective sorbent for many targets, including heavy metals such as mercury, lead, and cadmium, chromate and arsenate, and radionuclides such as Tc, CS, uranium, and the actinides.\n\nThe small size of nanoparticles leads to several characteristics that may enhance remediation. Nanomaterials are highly reactive because of their high surface area per unit mass. Their small particle size also allows nanoparticles to enter small pores in soil or sediment that larger particles might not penetrate, granting them access to contaminants sorbed to soil and increasing the likelihood of contact with the target contaminant.\n\nBecause nanomaterials are so tiny, their movement is largely governed by Brownian motion as compared to gravity. Thus, the flow of groundwater can be sufficient to transport the particles. Nanoparticles then can remain suspended in solution longer to establish an \"in situ\" treatment zone.\n\nOnce a nanoparticle contacts the contaminant, it may degrade the contaminant, typically through a redox reaction, or adsorb to the contaminant to immobilize it. In some cases, such as with magnetic nano-iron, adsorbed complexes may be separated from the treated substrate, removing the contaminant. Target contaminants include organic molecules such as pesticides or organic solvents and metals such as arsenic or lead. Some research is also exploring the use of nanoparticles to remove excessive nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus.\n\nA variety of compounds, including some that are used as macro-sized particles for remediation, are being studied for use in nanoremediation. These materials include zero-valent metals like zero-valent iron, calcium carbonate, carbon-based compounds such as graphene or carbon nanotubes, and metal oxides such as titanium dioxide and iron oxide.\n\nAs of 2012, nano zero-valent iron (nZVI) was the nanoscale material most commonly used in bench and field remediation tests. nZVI may be mixed or coated with another metal, such as palladium, silver, or copper, that acts as a catalyst in what is called a bimetallic nanoparticle. nZVI may also be emulsified with a surfactant and an oil, creating a membrane that enhances the nanoparticle's ability to interact with hydrophobic liquids and protects it against reactions with materials dissolved in water. Commercial nZVI particle sizes may sometimes exceed true “nano” dimensions (100 nm or less in diameter).\n\nnZVI appears to be useful for degrading organic contaminants, including chlorinated organic compounds such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and trichloroethene (TCE), as well as immobilizing or removing metals. nZVI and other nanoparticles that do not require light can be injected belowground into the contaminated zone for \"in situ\" groundwater remediation and, potentially, soil remediation.\n\nnZVI nanoparticles can be prepared by using sodium borohydride as the key reductant. NaBH (0.2 M) is added into FeCl•6H (0.05 M) solution (~1:1 volume ratio). Ferric iron is reduced via the following reaction:\n\n4Fe + 3B + 9HO → 4Fe + 3HB + 12H + 6H\n\nPalladized Fe particles are prepared by soaking the nanoscale iron \nparticles with an ethanol solution of 1wt% of palladium acetate ([Pd(CHO)2]). This causes the reduction and deposition of Pd on the Fe surface:\n\nPd + Fe → Pd + Fe\n\nSimilar methods may be used to prepared Fe/Pt, Fe/Ag, Fe/Ni, Fe/Co, \nand Fe/Cu bimetallic particles. With the above methods, nanoparticles of\ndiameter 50-70 nm may be produced. The average specific surface area of Pd/Fe particles is about 35 m/g. Ferrous iron salt has also been successfully used as the precursor.\n\nTitanium dioxide (TiO) is also a leading candidate for nanoremediation and wastewater treatment, although as of 2010 it is reported to have not yet been expanded to full-scale commercialization. When exposed to ultraviolet light, such as in sunlight, titanium dioxide produces hydroxyl radicals, which are highly reactive and can oxidize contaminants. Hydroxyl radicals are used for water treatment in methods generally termed advanced oxidation processes. Because light is required for this reaction, TiO is not appropriate for underground \"in situ\" remediation, but it may be used for wastewater treatment or pump-and-treat groundwater remediation.\n\nTiO is inexpensive, chemically stable, and insoluble in water. TiO has a wide band gap energy (3.2 eV) that requires the use of UV light, as opposed to visible light only, for photocatalytic activation. To enhance the efficiency of its photocatalysis, research has investigated modifications to TiO or alternative photocatalysts that might use a greater portion of photons in the visible light spectrum. Potential modifications include doping TiO with metals, nitrogen, or carbon.\n\nWhen using \"in situ\"\nremediation the reactive products must be considered for two reasons. \nOne reason is that a reactive product might be more harmful or mobile \nthan the parent compound. Another reason is that the products can affect\nthe effectiveness and/or cost of remediation. TCE (trichloroethylene), under reducing conditions by nanoiron, may sequentially dechlorinate to DCE (dichloroethene) and VC (vinyl chloride). VC is known to be more harmful than TCE, meaning this process would be undesirable.\n\nNanoparticles also react with non-target compounds. Bare nanoparticles tend to clump together and also react rapidly with soil, sediment, or other material in ground water. For \"in situ\" remediation, this action inhibits the particles from dispersing in the contaminated area, reducing their effectiveness for remediation. Coatings or other treatment may allow nanoparticles to disperse farther and potentially reach a greater portion of the contaminated zone. Coatings for nZVI include surfactants, polyelectrolyte coatings, emulsification layers, and protective shells made from silica or carbon.\n\nSuch designs may also affect the nanoparticles’ ability to react with contaminants, their uptake by organisms, and their toxicity. A continuing area of research involves the potential for nanoparticles used for remediation to disperse widely and harm wildlife, plants, or people.\n\nIn some cases, bioremediation may be used deliberately at the same site or with the same material as nanoremediation. Ongoing research is investigating how nanoparticles may interact with simultaneous biological remediation.\n\n"}
{"id": "22588409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22588409", "title": "Nasrullah Baryalai Arsalai", "text": "Nasrullah Baryalai Arsalai\n\nHaji Nasrullah Baryalai Arsalai (born 3 March 1958) is an Afghan politician, who was a candidate during Afghanistan's 2009 Presidential election.\n\nHaji Nasrullah Arsalai, known as Baryalai (Victorious), is from a distinguished Afghan family with a long record of service. Their forefather Arsala Khan was Foreign Minister of Afghanistan under the famous king Amir Sher Ali and was a leader of resistance to the British in the second Anglo-Afghan War. Since the end of the jihad he has developed a series of businesses in Afghanistan. Abroad he has worked as a community organiser. He is not a militia leader.\n\nHe is the brother of former legendary commander Abdul Haq who was executed by the Taliban in 2001 He is also the brother of former Vice President and Governor of Ningarhar Haji Abdul Qadir and the brother of the current governor of Kabul Haji Din Mohammad.\n\nIn 1980, Arsalai joined his brother Abdul Haq to help organize underground resistance cells against the Soviet occupation and its Afghan collaborators in Nangarhar and Kabul. In 1981, he migrated to Germany as a refugee and began conducting political activities in support of the jihad against the Soviets. This involved establishing the Hezb-e Islami (Khalis) office in Germany and editing a newspaper \"Al hijrat o al jihad.\" He conducted multiple fact-finding missions around Pakistan and Afghanistan during the period of Soviet occupation until 1989.\n\nIn February 1989, Arsalai participated as a delegate in the Rawalpindi shura to select the mujahideen's interim government. From 1989-1991, he served as political and cultural aide to Commander Abdul Haq, based in Peshawar. He ran the administration of the resistance front, published a weekly review of political and military developments and maintained his political contacts with Afghans and the diplomatic community. In this role, Arsalai also ran the administration for an important mujahideen initiative, the nationwide shura of mujahideen commanders, sar ta sari.\n\nFrom 1993-1994, Arsalai ran the Liaison Office of Eastern Afghanistan in Peshawar, an Afghan initiative to coordinate humanitarian assistance to the east of the country during a period when Haji Abdul Qadir headed the administration in Jalalabad. Appalled by the factional fighting among the mujahideen groups and the eventual rise of the Taliban, Arsalai returned to Germany in 1994, where he established a successful family business in Germany. He worked full time on his business until 26 October 2001, the day that Abdul Haq was killed by the Taliban for organizing uprisings against them.\n\nFrom 2002-2009, Arsalai was chief organizer of the People's Advisory Shura (Wolesi Mashvurati Shura), a mass movement of people in Nangarhar and Eastern Afghanistan aimed to mobilize popular participation in the Bonn political process. Significant achievements of this movement included organizing the consultations in Eastern Afghanistan on drafting of the constitution (2003), facilitating recruitment to the new Afghan National Army and opposing opium cultivation. In 2002, he established a monthly newspaper \"Afghan Yawwalay\" (Afghan unity).\n\nHaji Nasrullah Arsalai is fluent in Pashto, Dari, English and German.\n\nIn his 2009 Presidential candidacy his running mates were Abdul Baqi Turkistani and Sayed Mohammad Alam.\nNasrullah withdrew, and asked his supporters to vote for Abdullah Abdullah, who ended up ranking second.\n\n"}
{"id": "3859111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3859111", "title": "National Institutes of Health Director's Pioneer Award", "text": "National Institutes of Health Director's Pioneer Award\n\nNational Institutes of Health Director's Pioneer Award is a research initiative first announced in 2004 designed to support individual scientists' biomedical research. The focus is specifically on \"pioneering\" research that is highly innovative and has a potential to produce paradigm shifting results. \nThe awards, made annually from the National Institutes of Health common fund, are each worth $500,000 per year, or $2,500,000 for five years. \n\nSource: NIH\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSource: NIH\n\n"}
{"id": "5230353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5230353", "title": "New Zealand head tax", "text": "New Zealand head tax\n\nNew Zealand imposed a poll tax on Chinese immigrants during the 19th and early 20th centuries. The poll tax was effectively lifted in the 1930s following the invasion of China by Japan, and was finally repealed in 1944. Prime Minister at the time Helen Clark offered New Zealand's Chinese community an official apology for the poll tax on 12 February 2002.\n\nAlthough Chinese immigrants were invited to New Zealand by the Dunedin Chamber of Commerce, prejudice against them quickly led to calls for restrictions on immigration. Following the example of anti-Chinese poll taxes enacted by California in 1852 and by Australian states in the 1850s, 1860s and 1870s, John Hall's government passed the Chinese Immigration Act 1881. This imposed a £10 tax per Chinese person entering New Zealand, and permitted only one Chinese immigrant for every 10 tons of cargo. Richard Seddon's government increased the tax to £100 per head in 1896, and tightened the other restriction to only one Chinese immigrant for every 200 tons of cargo.\n\nThe poll tax was waived in 1934 by the Minister of Customs, following Japan's invasion of Manchuria, and the Act was finally repealed in 1944.\n\nAn estimated 4500 people paid the poll tax, raising over £300,000 (worth about NZD28 million in 2001).\n\nAs compensation, the government spent NZ$5 million in 2005 to establish a Chinese Poll Tax Heritage Trust to sponsor events that promotes:\nPeople who paid the poll tax were not personally compensated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16306656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16306656", "title": "PEI Media", "text": "PEI Media\n\nPEI is a financial media group that focuses on global alternative assets, private equity, private real estate, infrastructure, private debt and real assets with offices in London, New York, and Hong Kong.\n\nThe company was founded in London, UK, in November 2001 by a team of managers from the financial media group Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC. Originally funded by several U.S.-based investors, it is an independent media company.\n\nPEI offers several news services and magazines to cover the alternative asset class verticals: \n\nPEI publishes several annual rankings of private equity firms, including:\nPEI's other divisions provide data products, books and host industry conferences, such as the Private Equity International CFO and COO Forum, in New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24430052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24430052", "title": "Peruvian migration to Japan", "text": "Peruvian migration to Japan\n\nThere were estimated to be 60,000 Peruvians in Japan . The majority of them are descendants of earlier Japanese immigrants to Peru who have repatriated to Japan.\n\nIn 1990, Japan introduced a new ethnicity-based immigration policy which aimed to encourage Japanese descendants overseas to come to Japan and fill the country's need for foreign workers. From 1992 to 1997, data from Peru's Ministry of the Interior showed Japan as the fourteenth-most popular destination for Peruvian emigrants, behind the Netherlands and ahead of Costa Rica.\n\n\nThere are the following Peruvian international schools () in Japan:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27283015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27283015", "title": "Piper Kerman", "text": "Piper Kerman\n\nPiper Eressea Kerman (born September 28, 1969) is an American writer who was indicted in 1998 on charges of felonious money-laundering activities and sentenced to 15 months' detention in a federal correctional facility, of which she eventually served 13. Her memoir of her prison experiences, \"\", was adapted into the critically acclaimed Netflix original comedy-drama series \"Orange Is the New Black\".\n\nSince leaving prison, Kerman has spoken widely about women in jail and about her own experiences there. She now works as a communication strategist for non-profit organizations.\n\nKerman was born in Boston into a family which included many attorneys, doctors, and educators. She graduated from Swampscott High School in Swampscott, Massachusetts in 1987, and Smith College in 1992. She is a self-described WASP (although her paternal grandfather was Russian Jewish).\n\nIn 1993, Kerman became romantically involved with Catherine Cleary Wolters (Nora Janson in her memoir), a heroin dealer working for an alleged Nigerian kingpin. Kerman laundered money for the drug operation.\n\nIn 1998, Kerman was indicted for money laundering and drug trafficking; she subsequently pleaded guilty. Beginning in 2004, she served 13 months of a 15-month sentence at FCI Danbury, a minimum security prison located in Danbury, Connecticut.\n\nDuring her sentence, the website \"The Pipe Bomb\" was set up to document her life behind bars.\n\nKerman published her best-selling memoir about her experiences in prison, \"\", with Spiegel & Grau in 2010. A television adaptation of the same name created by Jenji Kohan, the Emmy award-winning creator of \"Weeds\", debuted on July 11, 2013 on Netflix. Kerman's character in the series (\"Piper Chapman\") is played by Taylor Schilling. The series was renewed for a fourth season on April 15, 2015, before the third season premiered on June 11, 2015. A fifth season was released on June 6, 2017. The sixth season was released on July 27, 2018. \"Orange is the New Black\" has received critical acclaim and won four Emmy Awards. \n\nKerman serves on the board of the Women's Prison Association and is frequently invited to speak to students of creative writing, criminology, gender and women's studies, law, and sociology, as well as to groups, such as the American Correctional Association's Disproportionate Minority Confinement Task Force, federal probation officers, public defenders, justice reform advocates and volunteers, book clubs, and formerly and currently incarcerated people.\n\nOn February 10, 2014, Kerman received the 2014 Justice Trailblazer Award from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice Center on Media, Crime & Justice.\n\nOn February 25, 2014, Kerman testified at a hearing on \"Reassessing Solitary Confinement\" before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights chaired by Assistant Majority Leader Dick Durbin.\n\nOn August 4, 2015, Kerman testified at a hearing on \"Oversight of the Bureau of Prisons: First-Hand Accounts of Challenges Facing the Federal Prison System\" before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee chaired by Senator Ron Johnson.\n\nSince 2015, Kerman has worked as a communications strategist for nonprofits.\n\nSince her prison sentence, Kerman has spoken publicly many times on behalf of women in corrections and about her experience.\n\nKerman has stated, \"I'm bisexual, so I'm a part of the gay community\". She came out around the age of 18 and identified as a lesbian for most of her youth. On May 21, 2006, Kerman married writer Larry Smith. Kerman and Smith live in Columbus, Ohio, and she teaches writing classes at the Marion Correctional Institution and the Ohio Reformatory for Women in nearby Marysville, Ohio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "318901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318901", "title": "Public art", "text": "Public art\n\nPublic art is art in any media that has been planned and executed with the intention of being staged in the physical public domain, usually outside and accessible to all. Public art is significant within the art world, amongst curators, commissioning bodies and practitioners of public art, to whom it signifies a working practice of site specificity, community involvement and collaboration. Public art may include any art which is exhibited in a public space including publicly accessible buildings, but often it is not that simple. Rather, the relationship between the content and audience, what the art is saying and to whom, is just as important if not more important than its physical location.\n\nCher Krause Knight states, \"art's publicness rests in the quality and impact of its exchange with audiences ... at its most public, art extends opportunities for community engagement but cannot demand particular conclusion”, it introduces social ideas but leaves room for the public to come to their own conclusions. In recent years, public art has increasingly begun to expand in scope and application both into other wider and challenging areas of artform, and also across a much broader range of what might be called our 'public realm'. Such cultural interventions have often been realised in response to creatively engaging a community's sense of 'place' or 'well-being' in society.\n\nMonuments, memorials and civic statuary are perhaps the oldest and most obvious form of officially sanctioned public art, although it could be said that architectural sculpture and even architecture itself is more widespread and fulfills the definition of public art. Independent artwork, created and installed without being officially sanctioned is ubiquitous in nearly every city. It is also installed in natural settings, and can include works such as sculpture, or may be short-lived, such as a precarious rock balance or an ephemeral instance of colored smoke. Some has been installed underwater.\n\nPermanent works are sometimes integrated with architecture and landscaping in the creation or renovation of buildings and sites, an especially important example being the programme developed in the new city of Milton Keynes, England. Public art is not confined to physical objects; dance, street theatre and even poetry have proponents that specialize in public art.\n\nSome artists working in this discipline use the freedom afforded by an outdoor site to create very large works that would be unfeasible in a gallery, for instance Richard Long's three-week walk, entitled \"The Path is the Place in the Line\". In a similar example, sculptor Gar Waterman created a giant arch straddling a city street in New Haven, Connecticut. Amongst the works of the last thirty years that have met greatest critical and popular acclaim are pieces by Christo, Robert Smithson, Dennis Oppenheim, Andy Goldsworthy, James Turrell and Antony Gormley, whose work reacts to or incorporates its environment.\n\nArtists making public art range from the greatest masters such as Michelangelo, Pablo Picasso, and Joan Miró, to those who specialize in public art such as Claes Oldenburg and Pierre Granche, to anonymous artists who make surreptitious interventions.\n\nIn Cape Town, South Africa, Africa Centre presents the Infecting the City Public Art Festival. Its curatorial mandate is to create a week-long platform for public art - whether it be visual or performative artworks, or artistic interventions - that shake up the city spaces and allows the city's users to view the cityscapes in new and memorable ways. The Infecting the City Festival believes that public art should be freely accessible to everybody in a public space.\n\nIn the 1930s, the production of national symbolism implied by 19th century monuments starts being regulated by long-term national programs with propaganda goals (Federal Art Project, United States; Cultural Office, Soviet Union). Programs like President Roosevelt's New Deal facilitated the development of public art during the Great Depression but was wrought with propaganda goals. New Deal art support programs intended to develop national pride in American culture while avoiding addressing the faltering economy that said culture was built upon. Although problematic, New Deal programs such as FAP altered the relationship between the artist and society by making art accessible to all people. The New Deal program Art-in-Architecture (A-i-A) developed percent for art programs, a structure for funding public art still utilized today. This program gave one half of one percent of total construction costs of all government buildings to purchase contemporary American art for that structure. A-i-A helped solidify the principle that public art in the US should be truly owned by the public. They also established the legitimacy of the desire for site-specific public art. While problematic at times, early public art programs set the foundation for current public art development.\n\nThis notion of public art radically changes during the 1970s, following up to the civil rights movement’ claims on the public space, the alliance between urban regeneration programs and artistic interventions at the end of the 1960s and the revision of the notion of sculpture. In this context, public art acquires a status which goes beyond mere decoration and visualization of official national histories in public space, therefore gaining autonomy as a form of site construction and intervention in the realm of public interests. Public art became much more about the public. This change of perspective is also present by the reinforcement of urban cultural policies in these same years, for example the New York-based Public Art Fund (1977) and several urban or regional Percent for Art programs in the United States and Europe. Moreover, the re-centring of public art discourse from a national to a local level is consistent with the site-specific turn and the critical positions against institutional exhibition spaces emerging in contemporary art practices since the 1960s. The will to create a deepest and more pertinent connection between the production of the artwork and the site where it is made visible prompts different orientations. In 1969 Wolf Vostells\n\"Stationary traffic\" was made in Cologne.\n\nLand artists choose to situate large-scale, process-oriented interventions in remote landscape situations; the Spoleto Festival (1962) creates an open-air museum of sculptures in the medieval city of Spoleto, and the German city of Münster starts, in 1977, a curated event bringing art in public urban places every 10 years (Skulptur Projekte Münster). In the group show \"When Attitudes Become Form\", the exhibition situation is expanded in the public space by Michael Heizer and Daniel Buren’s interventions; architectural scale emerges in the work of artists such as Donald Judd as well as in Gordon Matta-Clark’s temporary interventions in dismissed urban buildings.\n\nBetween the 1970s and the 1980s, gentrification and ecological issues surface in public art practices both as a commission motive and as a critical focus brought in by artists. The individual, Romantic retreat element implied in the conceptual structure of Land art and its will to reconnect the urban environment with nature, is turned into a political claim in projects such as \"Wheatfield – A Confrontation\" (1982), by American artist Agnes Denes, as well as in Joseph Beuys’ \"7000 Oaks\" (1982). Both projects focus on the raise of ecological awareness through a green urban design process, bringing Denes to plant a two-acre field of wheat in downtown Manhattan and Beuys to plant 7000 oaks coupled with basalt blocks in Kassel, Germany in a guerrilla or community garden fashion. In recent years, programs of green urban regeneration aiming at converting abandoned lots into green areas regularly include public art programs. This is the case of High Line Art, 2009, a commission program for the High Line, derived from the conversion of a portion of railroad in New York City; and of Gleisdreieck, 2012, an urban park derived from the partial reconversion of a railway station in Berlin which hosts, since 2012, an open-air contemporary art exhibition.\n\nThe 1980s also witness the institutionalisation of sculpture parks as curated programs. While the first public and private open-air sculpture exhibitions and collections dating back to the 1930s aim at creating an appropriate setting for large-scale sculptural forms difficult to show in museum galleries, experiences such as Noguchi’s garden in Queens, New York (1985) state the necessity of a permanent relationship between the artwork and its site.\n\nThis line also develops in Donald Judd’s project for the Chinati Foundation (1986) in Texas, advocating for the permanent nature of large-scale installations, which fragility may be destroyed when re-locating the work.\nThe trial instructed by judge Edward D. Re in 1985 to re-locate American artist Richard Serra’s \"Tilted Arc\", a monumental intervention commissioned for Manhattan's Federal Plaza by the “Art-in-Architecture” Program, also contributes to the debate about public art site-specificity. In his line of defence for the trial, Richard Serra claims: “\"Tilted Arc\" was commissioned and designed for one particular site: Federal Plaza. It is a site-specific work and as such not to be relocated. To remove the work is to destroy the work”. The trial around \"Tilted Arc\" shows the essential role played by site-specificity in public art. Moreover, one of the arguments brought into the trial by judge Edward D. Re is the intolerance of the community of users of the Federal Plaza towards Serra’s intervention and the support of the art community, represented by art critic Douglas Crimp’s testimony. In both cases, the audience positions itself as a major factor of the artistic intervention in public space. Within this context, the definition of public art comes to include artistic projects focusing on public issues (democracy, citizenship, integration); participative artistic actions involving the community; artistic projects commissioned and/or funded by a public body, within the Percent for Art schemes, or by a community.\n\nIn the 1990s, the clear differentiation of these new practices from previous forms of artistic presence in the public space calls for alternative definitions, some of them more specific (contextual art, relational art, participatory art, dialogic art, community-based art, activist art), other more comprehensive, such as “new genre public art”.\n\nIn this way, public art functions as a social intervention. Artists became fully engaged in civic activism by the 1970s and many adopted a pluralist approach to public art. This approach eventually developed into the “new genre public art”, which is defined by Suzanne Lacy as “socially engaged, interactive art for diverse audiences with connections to identity politics and social activism”. Rather than metaphorically discussing social issues, as did previous public art, practitioners of the “new genre” wanted to explicitly empower marginalized groups, all while maintaining aesthetic appeal. Curator Mary Jane Jacob of \"Sculpture Chicago” developed a show, ‘’Culture in Action’’, in summer 1993 that followed principles of new genre public art. The show intended to investigate social systems though audience participatory art, engaging especially with audiences that typically did not participate in traditional art museums. While controversial, \"Culture in Action\" introduced new models for community participation and interventionist public art that reaching beyond the “new genre”.\n\nEarlier groups also used public art as an avenue for social intervention. In the 1960s and 70s, the artist collective Situationist International created work that “challenged the assumptions of everyday life and its institutions” through physical intervention. Another artists collective interested in social intervention, Guerrilla Girls, started in the 1980s and persists today. Their public art exposes latent sexism and works to deconstruct male power structures in the art world. Currently, they also address racism in the art world, homelessness, AIDS, and rape culture, all socio-cultural issues the greater world experiences.\n\nIn artist Suzanne Lacy’s words, “new genre public art” is “visual art that uses both traditional and non traditional media to communicate and interact within a broad and diversified audience about issues directly relevant to their life”. Her position implies pondering over the conditions of commissioning public art, the relation to its users and, to a larger extent, a divergent interpretation of the role of the audience. In the Institutional critique practice of artists such as Hans Haacke (since the 1970s) and Fred Wilson (since the 1980s), the work’s publicness corresponds to making visible for the public opinion and in the public sphere controversial public issues such as discriminatory museum policies or illegal corporation acts.\n\nMaking visible issues of public concern in the public sphere is also at the basis of the anti-monument philosophy, whose target is mining the ideology of official history. On the one hand, introducing intimate elements in public spaces normally devoted to institutional narratives, such as in the work of Jenny Holzer, Alfredo Jaar’s project \"Es usted feliz? / Are you happy?\" and Felix Gonzales-Torres’ billboard images. On the other, through pointing at the incongruities of existing public sculptures and memorials, such as in Krzysztof Wodiczko’s video projections onto urban monuments, or in the building of counter-monuments (1980s) and Claes Oldenburg’s \"Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks\" (1969-1974), a giant hybrid pop object – a lipstick – which base is a caterpillar track. Commissioned by the association of architecture students of the Yale University, the latter is a large-scale sculpture situated in the campus in front of the memorial to World War I. In 1982, Maya Lin, at the time a senior student in Architecture at Yale, completed the construction of \"Vietnam Veterans Memorial\", listing 59’000 names of American citizens who died in the Vietnam war. Lin chooses for this work to list the names of the dead without producing any images to illustrate the loss, if not by the presence of a cut – like an injury – in the installation site floor. The cut and the site / non-site logics will stay as a recurrent image in contemporary memorials since the 1990s.\n\nAnother memorial strategy is to focus on the origin of the conflict responsible for the casualties: in this line, Robert Filliou proposes, in his \"Commemor\" (1970), to have European countries exchange their memorials; Esther Shalev-Gerz and Jochem Gertz built a \"Memorial against Fascism\" (1983) in the German city of Hamburg. Others, such as Thomas Hirschhorn, build, in collaboration with local communities, precarious anti-monuments devoted to thinkers such as Spinoza (1999), Gilles Deleuze (2000) and Georges Bataille (2002).\n\nIn this line, in 1990 artist Francois Hers and mediator Xavier Douroux inaugurate the “Nouveaux commanditaires” protocol, based on the principle that the commissioner is the community of users that, in collaboration with a curator-mediator, work at the context of the project with the artist. The Nouveaux commanditaires project extends the idea of site-specificness in public art to one of community-based, therefore implying the necessity of a “curated” connection between the practices that produce the community space and the artistic intervention. \nThis is the context of the experience of doual'art project in Douala (Cameroon, 1991), based on a commissioning system that brings together the community, the artist and the commissioning institution in the realization of the project.\n\nOn the other side, the notion of “site-specific” is revisited in the 1990s in the light of the dissemination of curated public art programs attached to biennials and other cultural events. Two events in particular set the contextual and theoretical background of subsequent public art programs: \"Places with a Past\"; \"On Taking on a Normal Situation and Re-translating it into overlapping and multiple readings of conditions past and present\". The first one, \"Places with a Past\", attempts to test the juxtaposition of “city sites and sculpture” in a project-oriented curatorial context. Similarly, \"On Taking on…\" establishes a connection between site-specificity and a project-oriented culture, but at the same time it programmatically bridges, already in the title, different urban and historical realities and narratives with new modes of artistic interventions. While \"On Taking on…\" acts at the same time on the site-specificity of the artistic intervention and of the exhibition, \"Places with a Past\" revisits and renews the trend of public art collections in a museum without walls fashion. This latter point will develop during the 1990s and the years 2000s, in coincidence with the dissemination of biennials and cultural events and as a consequence of city marketing strategies in the context of the “Bilbao effect” and the “destination culture” emerging after the opening of the Guggenheim museum in Bilbao.\n\nA specific trend in urban collections of public art develops in connection with new policies in public lighting. Asia and the world's tallest mural, by German artist Hendrik Beikirch, showcases a monochromatic palette of a fisherman representing a significant portion of Korea's population. It was organized by Public Delivery and painted in Busan, Korea in 2013.\n\nOnline databases of local and regional public art emerged in the 1990s and 2000s. Aside from electronic archives at national libraries (such as the Smithsonian American Art Museum's Archives of American Art), online public art databases have usually been specific to individual cities or public agencies (such as transit authorities) and were therefore geographically limited. Other online database efforts have focused more narrowly on particular public art forms, such as sculptures or murals. \n\nIn 2006 the Public Art in Public Places Project was one of the first non-government organizations to create an extensive online database of public art for a large geographic area - the Los Angeles, Southern California and Hawaii regions. This project is active and the database includes all forms of permanent (not temporary) public art (including sculptures, murals, statues, transit station art, as well as monuments, memorials, landmarks, and tourist attractions that contain public art features or components). \n\nFrom 1992-1994, Heritage Preservation funded the survey project Save Outdoor Sculpture!, whose acronym SOS! references the international Morse code distress signal, \"SOS\". This project documented more than 30,000 sculptures in the United States, which were made available in the SIRIS database. This project is no longer active.\n\nStarting in 2009, has worked to document public art around the globe. While this project received initial attention from the academic community, it mainly relied on student contributions. Its status is currently unknown.\n\nIn 2012, Alfie Dennen re-launched the Big Art Mob project and focused from mapping the United Kingdom's Public Art to mapping the whole world's and gained instant widespread global press. At launch the site had over 12,000 pieces of public art mapped with over 600 new works mapped as of 05/09/2012. As of 2018, the Big Art Mob database website appears to be inactive.\n\nSome forms of public art are designed to encourage audience participation in a hands-on way. Examples include public art installed at hands-on science museums such as the main architectural centerpiece out in front of the Ontario Science Centre. This permanently installed artwork is a fountain that is also a musical instrument (hydraulophone) that members of the public can play at any time. The public interacts with the work by blocking water jets to force water through various sound-producing mechanisms inside the sculpture. The \"Federation Bells\" in Birrarung Marr, Melbourne is also a public art creation which works as a musical instrument. The first permanent large interactive public art was created by artist Jim Pallas in Detroit, Michigan in 1980, titled Century of Light, in which a large outdoor mandala of lights reacted in complex ways to sounds and movements of visitors detected by radar for 25 years until it was mistakenly destroyed.\n\nRebecca Krinke's \"Map of Joy and Pain\" and \"What Needs to be Said\" invite public participation. In \"Maps\" visitors paint places of pleasure and pain on a map of the Twin Cities in gold and blue; in \"What Needs to be Said\" they write words and put them on a wall. Krinke is present and observes the nature of the interaction.\nDutch artist Daan Roosegaarde explores the nature of the public. His interactive artwork \"Crystal\" in Eindhoven can be shared or stolen. \"Crystal\" exists out of hundreds of individual salt crystals that light up when one interacts with them.\n\nFrom a broader framework of art and its relationship to film, and the history of motion picture; additional types of 'public art' worth considering are media and film works in the digital art space. According to Ginette Vincendeau and Susay Hayward, who argue in their book \"French Film: Texts and Contexts\", taught in introduction to cinema at University of London and European Higher Education, film is indeed an art form, and goes on to argue that film is also high art. Furthermore, the context of film and public spaces in the history of municipal areas and monuments may be traced back to the Father of film, Georges Méliès, as well as the Lumière brothers who invented the moving image, more commonly known as motion picture in 1896, an artistic movement that culminated in the commercialization of film industry showcased at Paris World Fair of 1900.\n\nDigital public art and traditional public art make use of new technologies in their creation and display. What distinguishes digital public art is its technological ability to explicitly interact with audiences. These public art methodologies differ from digital community art works, (which have also been termed Socially Engaged New Media Art, or \"SENMA\") in terms of how they establish relationships with the audience, site and outcome. In community based digital artworks these issues evolve via a dialogical process rather than as an explicit course of action, working or set of relationships.\n\nPublic art is usually commissioned or acquired with the authorization and collaboration of the government or company that owns or administers the space. Some governments actively encourage the creation of public art, for example, budgeting for artworks in new buildings by implementing a Percent for Art policy. Typically, one to two percent of the total cost of a city improvement project is allocated for artwork, but the amount varies widely from place to place. Administration and maintenance costs are sometimes withdrawn before the money is distributed for art (City of Los Angeles for example). Many locales have \"general funds\" that fund temporary programs and performances of a cultural nature rather than insisting on project-related commissions. The majority of European countries, Australia, several countries in Africa (among which South Africa and Senegal) and many cities and states in the United States, have percent for art programs. The percent for art is not applied to every capital improvement project in municipalities with percent for art policy.\n\nThe first percent-for-art legislation passed in Philadelphia in 1959. This requirement is implemented in a variety of ways. The government of Quebec maintains the art and architecture integration policy requiring the budget for all new publicly funded buildings set aside approximately 1% for artwork. New York City has a law that requires that no less than 1% of the first twenty million dollars, plus no less than one half of 1% of the amount exceeding twenty million dollars be allocated for art work in any public building that is owned by the city. The maximum allocation for any commission in New York is.\n\nIn contrast, the city of Toronto requires that 1% all of construction costs be set aside for public art, with no set upper limit (although in some circumstances, the municipality and the developer might negotiate a maximum amount). In the United Kingdom percent for art is discretionary for local authorities, who implement it under the broader terms of a section 106 agreement otherwise known as 'planning gain', in practice it is negotiable, and seldom ever reaches a full 1%, where it is implemented at all. A percent for art scheme exists in Ireland and is widely implemented by many local authorities.\n\nArts Queensland, Australia supports a new policy (2008) for 'art + place' with a budget provided by state government and a curatorial advisory committee. It replaces the previous 'art built-in' 2005–2007. Canberra, Australia committed 1 per cent of its capital works program (including out years) from 2007 to 2009 for public art with a final amount of $778,000 being provided for in 2011-12.\n\nPublic art has often been used for political ends. The most extreme and widely discussed manifestations of this remain the use of art as propaganda within totalitarian regimes coupled with simultaneous suppression of dissent. The approach to art seen in Joseph Stalin's Soviet Union and Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution in China stand as representative.\n\nThe Talking statues of Rome began a tradition of political expression in the 16th Century that still continues.\n\nPublic art is also often used to refute those propagandistic desires of political regimes. Artists use culture jamming techniques, taking popular media and reinterpreting it with guerrilla-style adaptations, to comment of social and political issues relevant to the public. Artists use culture jamming to facilitate social interactions around political concerns in hopes of changing the way people relate to the world by manipulating existing culture. Adbusters magazine explores contemporary social and political issues through culture jamming by manipulating popular design campaigns.\n\nIn more open societies artists often find public art useful in promoting their ideas or establishing a censorship-free means of contact with viewers. The art may be intentionally ephemeral, as in the case of temporary installations and performance pieces. Such art has a spontaneous quality. It is characteristically displayed in urban environments without the consent of authorities. In time, though, some art of this kind achieves official recognition. Examples include situations in which the line between graffiti and \"guerilla\" public art is blurred, such as the art of John Fekner placed on billboards, the early works of Keith Haring (executed without permission in advertising poster holders in the New York City Subway) and the work of Banksy. The Northern Irish murals and those in Los Angeles were often responses to periods of conflict.\n\nPublic art sometimes proves controversial. A number of factors contribute to this: the desire of the artist to provoke, the diverse nature of the public, issues of appropriate uses of public funds, space, and resources, and issues of public safety.\n\nPublic art faces a design challenge by its very nature: how best to activate the images in its surroundings. The concept of “sustainability” arises in response to the perceived environmental deficiencies of a city. Sustainable development, promoted by the United Nations since the 1980s, includes economical, social, and ecological aspects. A sustainable public art work would include plans for urban regeneration and disassembly. Sustainability has been widely adopted in many environmental planning and engineering projects. Sustainable art is a challenge to respond the needs of an opening space in public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193997", "title": "Qari Ahmadullah", "text": "Qari Ahmadullah\n\nQari Ahmadullah () (b.1975) was an Afghan politician and the Taliban's first interior minister in 1996.\n\nHe was responsible for bribing anti-Taliban commanders to desert the ranks of the United Islamic Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan opposition. Ahmadullah also commanded troops fighting on frontlines in the north of the country against the Northern Alliance.\n\nAccording to the Official Journal of the European Union and the testimony of Abdul Haq Wasiq, before his Combatant Status Review Tribunal, Ahmadullah was the Minister of Security and also Minister of Intelligence and Governor of Takhar Province. Abdul Haq described Ahmadullah as an uneducated man.\n\nHe was supposedly killed in the opening days of 2002 in the American airstrike against Mullah Taha's house in Zadran (though the Pentagon was unable to confirm Ahmadullah's death). However, a recent investigation in \"Harper's Magazine\", 12 years after the incident, says Ahmadullah is alive.\n"}
{"id": "20021331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20021331", "title": "Queen Liz (criminal)", "text": "Queen Liz (criminal)\n\nQueen Liz was the pseudonym of an American thief and pickpocket who was a prominent member of New York's underworld during the mid-to late 19th century. She was among the elite \"inner circle\" of female career criminals under Marm Mandelbaum during the 1860s and 1870s. Among these included fellow thieves, blackmailers and confidence women such as Lena Kleinschmidt, Sophie Lyons, Kid Glove Rosey, Little Annie, Big Mary and Old Mother Hubbard, all of whom were regular guests at her extravagant dinner parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "56314731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56314731", "title": "Racial Trauma", "text": "Racial Trauma\n\nRacial trauma or race-based traumatic stress, is the cumulative effects of racism on an individual’s mental and physical health. It has been linked to feelings of anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideations, as well as other physical health issues. Racial trauma is not included in the most recent edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), since it does not meet the current criteria. However, researchers such as Robert T. Carter, Thema Bryant-Davis, and Carlota Ocampo have lobbied for its addition. According to them, racial trauma invokes symptoms similar to that of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), hence the push for its recognition as a viable mental health concern. The affects race-based traumatic stress has on individuals is subjective to their experiences, and the ways in which it can manifest itself can vary significantly, too.\n"}
{"id": "6250226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6250226", "title": "Reverse racism", "text": "Reverse racism\n\nReverse racism or reverse discrimination is a concept that portrays affirmative action in the United States and similar color-conscious programs as a form of anti-white racism on the part of black people and government agencies; it is commonly associated with conservative opposition to such programs. The concept has also been used to characterize various expressions of hostility or indifference toward white people by members of minority groups.\n\nThere is little to no empirical evidence to support the idea of reverse racism. Racial and ethnic minorities in the United States generally lack the power to damage the interests of white people, who remain the dominant group. Claims of reverse racism tend to ignore such disparities in the exercise of power and authority, which scholars argue constitute an essential component of racism.\n\nDespite a lack of evidence, belief in reverse racism is widespread in the United States. While the U.S. dominates the debate over the issue, the concept of reverse racism has been used internationally to some extent wherever white supremacy has diminished, such as in post-apartheid South Africa. Allegations of reverse racism therefore form part of a racial backlash against gains by people of colour.\n\nThe concept of \"reverse racism\" in the United States is commonly associated with conservative opposition to color-conscious policies aimed at addressing racial inequality, such as affirmative action. Concerns that the advancement of African Americans might cause harm to White Americans date back as far as the Reconstruction Era in the context of debates over providing reparations for slavery.\n\nDisparities in the exercise of power and authority are seen by scholars as an essential component of racism. In this view, isolated examples of favoring disadvantaged people over more privileged ones cannot constitute actual racism. Where past race-conscious policies such as Jim Crow have been used to maintain white supremacy, modern programs such as affirmative action aim to reduce racial inequality.\n\nThe term \"reverse racism\" came into use as the struggle for African-American rights divided the white community. In 1966, Hosea Williams of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), publicly accused members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) of reverse racism in their efforts to exclude or expel white people from local government in Alabama to make room for black people. Williams argued the SNCC's intended \"all-black\" campaign in Alabama would drive white moderates out of the civil rights movement. \"Black racism\" was a more common term in this era, used to describe SNCC and groups like the Black Panthers.\n\nAllegations of reverse racism emerged prominently in the 1970s, building on the racially color-blind view that any preferential treatment linked to membership in a racial group was morally wrong. Despite affirmative-action programs' successes in reducing racial inequality, conservative opponents claim that such programs constituted a form of anti-white racism. This view was boosted by the Supreme Court's decision in \"Regents of the University of California v. Bakke\" (1978), which said that racial quotas for minority students were discriminatory toward white people.\n\nWhile there has been little empirical study on the subject of reverse racism, the few existing studies have found little evidence that white males, in particular, are victimized by affirmative-action programs. Claims of reverse racism in the early 21st century tend to rely on anecdotes of isolated instances, often based on third- or fourth-hand reports, of a white person losing a job to a black person, for example; however, racial minorities in the United States generally lack the power to deny opportunities to white people as a group. In a widely reprinted article, legal scholar Stanley Fish wrote that \"'Reverse racism' is a cogent description of affirmative action only if one considers the cancer of racism to be morally and medically indistinguishable from the therapy we apply to it\".\n\nWhile not empirically supported, the belief in reverse racism is widespread in the United States. Whites' belief in reverse racism has steadily increased since the civil rights movement of the 1960s. The terms \"reverse racism\" and \"reverse discrimination\" initially arose in the 1970s in opposition to affirmative action and race-based policies that benefited minorities at the expense of whites. Despite data to the contrary, many whites in the early 21st century believe that anti-white racism is more prevalent than anti-black racism.\n\nThe critical race theorist David Theo Goldberg argues that the notion of reverse racism represents a denial of the historical and contemporary reality of racial discrimination. In \"Racism without Racists\", the sociologist Eduardo Bonilla-Silva argues that such \"color-blind racism\" leads whites to dismiss efforts to redress inequality as being racist \"in reverse\". According to University of Kent sociologist Miri Song, \"assertions of reverse racism often fail to consider the historically specific ways in which racial hierarchies and inequalities were institutionalized.\"\n\nPaul Kivel writes in \"Uprooting Racism: How White People Can Work for Racial Justice\" that instances of reverse racism are generally rare, and that many claims of reverse discrimination lack merit. According to Kivel, charges of reverse racism are \"usually a white strategy to deny white racism and to counterattack attempts to promote racial justice\". Reverse racism is also said to deny the existence of white privilege and power in society.\n\nResearchers at Tufts University and Harvard reported in 2011 that many white Americans felt as though they then suffered the greatest discrimination among racial groups, despite data to the contrary.\n\nWhereas black respondents saw anti-black racism as a continuing problem, white ones tended to see such racism as a thing of the past, to the point that they saw prejudice against white people as being more prevalent.\n\nA 2013 study found that priming white people with status-legitimizing beliefs—which include the belief that anyone can become successful if they work hard enough—led white people to be more supportive of others who claimed they were victims of anti-white racism.\n\nA 2014 study by the same research team showed that white Americans who think the U.S. status hierarchy is legitimate (i.e. that those who are successful have earned their success) are more likely to think that anti-white racism exists.\n\nThe Supreme Court held in 2003 that racial preferences in university admissions for minority students do not necessarily violate Equal Protection in cases such as \"Grutter v. Bollinger\". The term gained widespread use in debates and legal actions concerning affirmative action in the United States.\n\nIn 2016, the Supreme Court held in \"Fisher v. University of Texas\" that affirmative action as practiced by the University of Texas at Austin was lawful.\n\nLegal challenges concerning so-called \"reverse racism\" date back as far as the 1970s as asserted in such cases as \"Regents of the University of California v. Bakke\"; \"Gratz v. Bollinger\"; and \"Grutter v. Bollinger\" (regarding discrimination in higher education admissions) and \"Ricci v. DeStefano\" (regarding employment discrimination).\n\nThe term has been used actively by both black and white South Africans after the end of apartheid. Accusations of reverse racism have been leveled particularly at government efforts to transform the demographics of South Africa's white-dominated civil service.\n\nNelson Mandela in 1995 described \"racism in reverse\" when Black students demonstrated in favor of changing the racial makeup of staff at South African universities. Students denied Mandela's claim and argued that a great deal of ongoing actual racism persisted from apartheid.\n\nMandela was later himself charged with reverse racism, during 1997 proceedings of the national Truth and Reconciliation Commission and for supporting the 1998 Employment Equity Bill.\n\nMixed-race South Africans have also sometimes claimed to be victimized by reverse racism of the new government. Similar accusations have been leveled by Indian and Afrikaner groups, who feel that they have not been dominant historically but now suffer from discrimination by the government. \n\nClaims of reverse racism continued into the 21st century. Helen Suzman, a prominent white anti-apartheid politician, charged the African National Congress and the Mbeki administration with reverse racism since Mandela's departure in 1999.\n\nSouth African critics of the \"reverse racism\" concept use similar arguments as those employed by Americans.\n\n"}
{"id": "21366952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21366952", "title": "Romani people in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Romani people in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe Romani people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the largest of the 17 national minority in the country, although—due to the stigma attached to the label—this is often not reflected in statistics and censuses.\n\nThe exact number of Roma persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina is uncertain. Due to the social stigma attached to the label, many members of the community refuse to self-identify as such in official surveys and censuses. Their number is thus consistently underestimated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nImportant Roma communities in BiH are living in Brčko, Bijeljina, Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, Tuzla, Kakanj, Prijedor, Zenica and Teslić.\n\nThe largest number of Roma in Bosnia and Herzegovina live in the Tuzla Canton (15,000–17,000), of which a sizeable proportion in the municipality of Tuzla (6,000–6,500), as well as in Živinice (3,500), Lukavac (2,540). The Sarajevo Canton hosts around 7,000 Roma families, mostly in the municipality of Novi Grad (FBiH) (1,200–1,500 families). The Zenica-Doboj Canton hosts between 7,700 and 8,200 Roma, of which 2,000–2,500 in the Zenica Municipality, 2,160 in Kakanj, 2,800 in Visoko. 2,000–2,500 Roma live in the Central Bosnia Canton, mostly in Donji Vakuf (500–550), Vitez (550) and Travnik (450). In the Una-Sana Canton there are between 2,000–2,200 Roma, of which 700 in the Bihać Municipality.\nIn the territory of Herzegovina-Neretva Canton there are between 2,200–2,700 Roma, of which 450 in Konjic and 250 in Mostar. 2,000–2,500 Roma live in the Brčko District.\nIn Republika Srpska live around 3,000–11,000 Roma, most of which in Gradiška (1,000), Bijeljina (541), Banja Luka (300), Prnjavor (200), Derventa (120).\n\nThere have been Romani people in Bosnia and Herzegovina for more than 600 years. Roma are deemed to have arrived in the territory of today's Bosnia and Herzegovina by the 14th–15th centuries, and to have adopted Islam as the majority confession during the times of Ottoman rule (15th–19th centuries). Already then, Roma were stigmatised and had to live in settlements outside city boundaries.\n\nRousseau, as French consul in Bosnia and Herzegovina, estimated in 1866 a number of 9,965 or 1.1 percent of the population were Romani. Johann Roskiewicz estimated in 1867 the number of the \"Gypsies\" in Bosnia at 9,000 (1.2 percent) and in Herzegovina at 2,500 (1.1 percent), resulting in a total of 11,500 Romani.\n\nAttitudes towards Roma in Bosnia and Herzegovina hardened during the Austro-Hungarian forty-years rule (1878–1918), also due to rumours that Roma lived off immoral earnings. \nThe 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica mentions 18,000 Romani in Bosnia and Herzegovina (1.6 percent).\n\nThe worst period for Bosnian Roma came with World War Two, when Bosnia and Herzegovina was included in the Nazi-aligned Independent State of Croatia (NDH). It is estimated that 28,000 Roma perished in the conflict, in concentration and extermination camps such as Jasenovac.\n\nIn Socialist Jugoslavia, the situation of Roma improved considerable, as they became officially recognised as a “national minority”, and came to enjoy a large degree of security and welfare.\n\nDuring the war in Bosnia of 1992–1995, the Roma suffered mistreatment by all conflict parties, being often considered as agents of the enemy, or forcefully conscripted. Over 30,000 Bosnian Roma were expelled based on ethnic cleansing. Roma were subject to inhumane conditions in concentration camps and entire communities were destroyed.\n\nSeveral Roma from Kosovo moved to Bosnia and Herzegovina during socialist times as well as again during the Kosovo war. Kosovo Roma still face issues with civil documentations due to the lack of recognition of Kosovo by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the lack of \n\nBosnia and Herzegovina has markedly tackled the situation of lack of civil registration documents and risks of statelessness, thanks to cooperation between the state authorities and NGOs, reducing the number of Roma persons without documents from some 3,000 to 57 in 2017. This result remains to be made sustainable, due to the risks of administrative complications linked to cases of temporary migration and the lack of recognition of documents for children born abroad.\n\nMany Roma in BiH still live in informal settlements, without access to water and electricity, as well as collective centres for IDPs. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, in cooperation with municipalities and thanks to EU funds (4 million EUR in 2012) is building housing solutions for 150 Roma families in 14 municipalities. The legalisation and improvement of living conditions in informal settlement is ongoing and is still uneven across the country. Local Action Plans are being dressed up by municipalities. \n\nMost Roma in BiH either work in the informal economy or have no means of sustainance. The percentage of employed Roma is very low, less than\n1% in the FBiH and Brčko District of BiH and in the RS it is less than 3%. Those who find employment tend not to register or self-identify as Roma anymore, to avoid social stigma. \n\nLack of education and low skills add to problems of discrimination in the access to the labour market. Very few Roma are also registered as unemployed at the entities' Employment Bureaus. Public programmes to subsidize employment and self-employment of Roma population have achieved little results, due to the lack of retention of employees at the end of the projects. Some good examples of cooperation with big entreprises (e.g. \"Bingo\" supermarkets) have been registered too. \n\nMany Roma still face issues with access to education, in terms of both enrolment and completion of primary studies. \nIn July 2010, the Council of Minister adopted the Revised Action Plan on the educational needs of Roma. The measures therein should be implemented by the \n12 line ministries of education in entities and cantons and the department in Brčko District. Authorities provide textbooks, school transport, meals and other subsidies. Enrolment of Roma children in primary, secondary, as well as higher education has since increased, despite still concerningly high rates of drop-out.\nBosnia and Herzegovina does not have issues with segregated education of Roma children.\n\nAccess to healthcare services remain difficult for a high share of the Roma population in BiH due to administrative and bureaucratic complications. Lack of school attendance and of registration as unemployment risks leaving many Roma citizens of BiH without health insurance coverage. Elderly Roma citizens face issues with seeing their right to health insurance recognised. Roma associations estimate that between 60-70% of the Roma population in BiH have access to health care. \n\n84 associations of Roma are registered in BiH, of which 64 are in the Federation (with 25 active ones), 18 in Republika Srpska and two in the Brčko District (one active). In the RS, 11 associations over 18 are members of the RS Roma Union (\"Savez Roma RS\"). Roma associations mostly operate at municipality level.\n\nIn the case Sejdić and Finci v. Bosnia and Herzegovina, the European Court of Human Rights in December 2009 found that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina violated the rights of Mr Dervo Sejdić (a Roma representative) because of the arrangements reserving the candidacy for the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the affiliates to the so-called \"constituent peoples\" (Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats), thus directly discriminating against other groups, including Roma and Jews, as well as citizens without ethno-national affiliation. \nBosnia and Herzegovina has not yet amended its Constitution to bring it in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. \n\nRoma representatives take part in the National Minority Councils, legislative advisory bodies at state and entity levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nThe Roma Committee of Bosnia and Herzegovina is an advisory body to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, established since 2002 with the aim of advancing the protection of the Roma minority in BiH. The responsibilities of the body were further defined in 2012 and its current members were appointed in 2017. Its current chairman is Mujo Fafulic from the Support Center for Roma “Romalen”, Kakanj. \n\nThe Roma Committee is tasked with monitoring the implementation of the Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for Addressing Roma Issues (Official Gazette\nof BiH, No. 67/05) and its action plans: the revised Roma Action Plan in the areas of Employment, Housing and Health (2017) and the\nRevised Plan on the Educational Needs of Roma in Bosnia and Herzegovina (2010). The Roma Committee also manages a public call for grants to Roma NGOs in cooperation with the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. \n\nThe Roma Committee consists of 22 members:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15359141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15359141", "title": "Russian Mexicans", "text": "Russian Mexicans\n\nThere is a small Russian diaspora population in Mexico. According to the 2000 Mexican census, 1,293 Russian citizens were resident in Mexico.\n\n\n\n\nAfter the anti-Jewish pogroms of 1881, Mexico frequently came under consideration as a possible refuge for Russian Jews seeking to emigrate. In June 1891, Jacob Schiff, an American Jewish businessman with railroad interests in Mexico, wrote to Ernest Cassel to enquire about the possibility for settlement of Russian Jews there. However, Russian Jews would not begin to arrive in significant quantities until the 1920s.\n\nFrom 1905 to 1906, about 50 families of Spiritual Christian Pryguny (colloquially known as Molokans), who arrived in Los Angeles from Russia, sought a rural location, and relocated to of land they had purchased in Guadalupe, Baja California in Mexico. Theirs would become the most successful \"Prygun\" colony cluster in North America. There, they build houses largely in the Russian style, but of adobe rather than wood, and grew a variety of cash crops including mostly wheat, alfalfa, grapes, and tomatoes. Their village was originally quite isolated, reflecting their desire to withdraw from society, but in 1958, road construction in the area resulted in an influx of Mexican and other settlers; some chose to flee encroaching urbanization, and returned to the United States. By the 1990s, only one family remained in the area.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1111865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1111865", "title": "Sirikwa people", "text": "Sirikwa people\n\nThe Sirikwa were a people inhabiting the Great Lakes region of East Africa, in an area that is believed to have extended from Lake Turkana in the north to Lake Eyasi in the south. Most prominent from the 12th to 15th centuries, they are credited with having built many of the historic stone ruins and irrigation systems that are found locally.\n\nThe archaeological evidence indicates that Sirikwa culture formed in the central Rift Valley at least by 1300 A.D. From here it spread westward to Sotik and Nyanza province, northwards to Cherangani hills and then to Mt. Elgon area and possibly into Uganda. This way of life would decline and eventually disappear by the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nThe name Sirikwa derives from the name that various early informants gave to the builders of the structures today known as Sirikwa Holes. Sengwer folklore features a patriarch named Sirikwa from where the term may have derived.\n\nOther Nilotic and Bantu peoples that today inhabit the eastern Great Lakes region have other names for the Sirikwa and Sirikwa-like communities. The Dorobo refer to them as the Mokwan, the Meru as the Mwoko, the Kikuyu as the Enjoe, and the Maasai as the Eboratta.\n\nRadio carbon dating of artifacts from Sirikwa sites indicates traces of a Proto-Sirikwa culture dating from c. 700 AD to c. 1200 AD and a Sirikwa Culture proper from c. 1200 AD to c. 1800 AD.\n\nSirikwa-inhabited territory is believed to have extended from Lake Turkana in the northern part of the Great Lakes region to Lake Eyasi in the south. Its cross-section stretched from the eastern escarpment of the Great Rift Valley to the foot of Mount Elgon. Some of the localities include Cherengany, Kapcherop, Sabwani, Sirende, Wehoya, Moi's Bridge, Hyrax Hill, Lanet, Deloraine (Rongai), Tambach, Moiben, Soy, Turbo, Ainabkoi, Timboroa, Kabyoyon, Namgoi and Chemangel (Sotik).\n\nArtifacts found in numerous sites across the central Rift Valley of Kenya tell of the history and culture of a society that experienced a unique way of life, a material culture that has come to be referred to as Sirikwa. What is known of the Sirikwa is what has been preserved in the archaeological record and in the folklore of present-day communities inhabiting the locations where the artifacts have been found. \n\nThe Sirikwa practiced pastoralism. They herded goats, sheep, and cattle. There is also evidence that they raised donkeys, as well as domesticated dogs. The Sirikwa focused on milk production, which is shown by the lack of lactating age cows in archaeological assemblages. Large herds of sheep and goats were kept for meat, and made up a large proportion of the Sirikwa diet.\n\nNumerous saucer shaped hollows commonly referred to as Sirikwa holes have been found in various areas on the hillsides of the western highlands of Kenya and in the elevated stretch of the central Rift Valley around Nakuru. These hollows, having a diameter of 10–20 metres and an average depth of 2.4 metres, are usually found in groups sometimes numbering less than ten and at times more than a hundred. Excavations at several examples of these sites in the western highlands and in the Nakuru area have shown that they were deliberately constructed to house livestock. \n\nThese hollows were surrounded by a fence or stockade and on the downhill side, a single gate, usually with extra works and flanking guard houses. In rocky terrain, notably the Uasin Gishu Plateau and the Elgeyo border, stone walling substituted for fencing or provided a base for the same. At the time of the first recorded accounts during the late 18th centuries, some of the dry stone walling could still be seen though they were mostly in deteriorated state.\n\nFrom the remains it is apparent that houses were not built inside the actual Sirikwa holes but were attached however and were constructed on the outer side of the fence, being approached through the stock-pen and entered through a connecting door. These hollows are mostly covered over by grass and bush today.\n\nIn the Kerio Valley of Kenya, among other neighboring areas, there are vestiges of elaborate irrigation systems which the Marakwet who maintain them today aver were the work of a northern people of peculiar language called the Sirikwa, who were later decimated by pestilence.\n\nAt one site six coins were found at a depth of between 45cm and 50cm (except one) and have been dated to between about 60 and 500 years old. These coins (three of them copper and three of silver) are all of Indian origin and are believed to have come from the gulf of Kutch. Two of them a rupee and an anna had some inscriptions in English while the rest were inscribed with Indian language.\n\nCup like holes pecked into the rocks in two rows are found in a number of places around Hyrax hill and were used to play bao. Bao is a game of skill played in diverse places, from the Far East and Arab world to Africa and the Caribbean. There are a number of these \"bao boards\" around the hill and some are exposed for public view.\n\nThe anthropologist J.R. Sutton argues that the ancient Sirikwa language may have been linguistically ancestral to Kalenjin, a Nilo-Saharan language.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th century the Okiek living in and adjacent to Kalenjin areas were recorded as speaking a dialect of Nandi. There were also Kalenjin-speaking Okiek in Mt. Kenya and Kikuyu areas as well as near Lake Natron in Tanzania, areas that were by then occupied by non-Kalenjin speaking peoples. This adoption of the language by the Okiek and the areas where it was spoken have been used to illustrate the dominance and distribution of the Sirikwa society in older times. \n\nThe Sirikwa and their way of life are vividly described in the folklore of many modern day Kenyan communities as are some accounts of the peoples and their divisions. \n\nA praise song for warriors recorded in the now virtually extinct Yaakunte language mentions four groupings, two of which are cognate with Sirikwa sub-groups whose names have been referenced elsewhere.\n\nMalanchoi nadaru, nelo sioki\n\nKeipira sekenge, serengwenyi\n\nPartiloo loldepe, melotie ina\n\nNgari olitaliani, neratooyie\n\nThe Sengwer define the Sirikwa society. The very names 'Siger' and 'Sangwir' used both of places and people, have at various times been considered semantically and even etymologically cognate with Sirikwa. \n\nThe Sengwer built stone-walled cattle pens in their territory in the Uasin Gishu plateau. These were the first of these features to be observed and when questioned informants noted that those structures were built by the 'Sirikwa'. The Sirikwa were one of two Sengwer divisions whose name appears to have been applied to the wider culture. Other reports noted that the Sengwer reared a distinctive black, long-horned cattle breed. Both these features are considered notable elements/markers of the Sirikwa way of life. \n\nThe most notable element of their culture was an adornment of a single cowrie shell attached to the forelock of Sengwer women. This dangling cowrie shell was referred to as esigirait, pl. ngisigira and it is from this cultural feature that the Siger (cowrie shell in Karamoja) name derived. Divination also appears to have played a large role in Sengwer culture. The confederacy gave rise to the Meturona line of diviners among the Turkana, the Kachepkai diviners of the Pokot and the Talai diviners of the Uas Nkishu Maasai, the Nandi and Kipsigis. \n\nThe Chok were committed grain cultivators living along the Kerio escarpment. They depended on rain to grow eleusine grain high up on the hill sides and developed a large network of irrigation canals to grow \"millet on the fertile and well watered flats at the base of the Elgeyo escarpment. The irrigation system as Beech noted in 1911, \"is most ingenious, and it's original construction must have required a vast amount of toil and patience\". \n\nThe elaborate irrigation systems of the Chok define the agricultural aspect of the Sirikwa agropastoral tradition.\n\nThe Lumbwa (also Lumbua, Umpua, Humbua and possibly Wakuafi) were a pastoralist community inhabiting southern and northern portions of Kenya and Tanzania respectively. They are known to have taken up agriculture though they eventually lost their individual identity in the 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nThe term Lumbwa has been used in reference to sections of the Maa-speaking Loikop and Maasai communities from at least the mid-19th century but also and commonly to the Kalenjin speaking Kipsgis community for much of the late 19th to mid 20th century.\n\nThey are associated with the archaeological/landscape feature commonly referred to as Sirikwa holes which are found in Meru and where they are known as \"Agumba holes\". Traditions captured in Igoji and Imenti describe the Umpua of that area as cattle keepers who kept livestock in pits at night. These holes were dug by the herders themselves and were gradually deepened as mud was removed after the rains.\n\nThe Loikop people (also known as Kor, Mu-Oko, Muoko/Ma-Uoko and Mwoko) was a tribal confederacy that inhabited regions north and west of Mount Kenya and east and south of Lake Turkana, an area that is roughly conterminous with present-day Samburu and Laikipia counties as well as parts of Baringo, Turkana and possibly Meru counties. \n\nA number of narratives among the Samburu/Loikop point to origins in the north at a place called Woto. These traditions are shared with the present day Yaaku and likely derive from the Southern Cushitic heritage of Loikop society\n\nOther traditions, likely deriving from the Southern Nilotic heritage of Loikop society, point to Sulai/Solai near Nakuru as their point of origin. From Solai,the Loikop moved to Kamunotio near Lake Baringo and later to regions north of the lake.\n\nThe Loikop society interacted with a number of different cultures leading to notable multi-cultural trends.\n\nThe Oropom were a populous community that inhabited the regions that are today occupied by the Turkana, Pokot, Karimojong as well as Mount Elgon, Cherangani Hills and much of Trans Nzoa District.\n\nAn aggregate of traditions from communities resident in and surrounding former Oropom areas gives an idea of the Oropom way of life which may have represented an East African pastoral neolithic i.e. proto-Sirikwa, way of life. At the later stages, they were perceived as an exotic people by their neighbors and were multi-lingual, with at least a dialect of Maa spoken along with other languages. They built semi-subterranean structures, herded a distinctive type of black cattle with exceptionally long horns and comprised families of skilled blacksmiths and potters. \n\nA notable adornment worn by Oropom females of all ages i.e. women, girls and even infants, was a single cowrie shell attached to a forelock, which rested at the center of their forehead.\n\nThe traces of cultural evidence suggest that there may not have been, in the present day at least, a single, widespread ethnic group directly equivalent to the Sirikwa material culture. Conflicting accounts captured in folklore further add to the mystique around the culture.\n\nAccounts captured among some Nandi informants that were residing in Uasin Gishu during the late 19th and early 20th century indicated that the Sirikwa, who lived in the area prior to themselves, had constructed the numerous circular stone kraals that are today found in the region. \n\nAccording to the Akiek (Dorobo), among others, these Sirikwa holes were built by inhabitants who were long-haired, with general traditional evidence further describing them physically as tall, bearded and \"red\" in complexion. These agro-pastoralists were in other accounts said to have possessed very large herds of cattle, specifically of the Egyptian long-horned variety, \n\nIn some accounts appears to be conflated with proto-Sirikwa culture, a set of societies collectively referred to as the \"Stone Bowl\" cultural complex that preceded the Sirikwa culture. In one instance, the modern Iraqw, a Southern Cushitic-speaking people residing in the Mbulu Highlands of northern Tanzania have traditionally been credited with having constructed the sprawling Engaruka complex. \n\nThe Sirikwa are better understood as multilingual confederacies of mixed farmers, the products of long interaction between Cushitic and Southern Nilotic elements, and, later Maa-speaking Eastern Nilotes as well. They argue that the Sirikwa were a cultural phenomenon or era which certainly seems to have been the case with Sirikwa-like groups such as the Oropom and Siger who inhabited the Karamoja-Turkana borderlands northeast of Mount Elgon.\n"}
{"id": "58894898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58894898", "title": "Sohaila Zarrain", "text": "Sohaila Zarrain\n\nSohaila Zarrain (July 13, 1993) is a Pakistani footballer who plays as a defender for Balochistan United and the Pakistan national women's team.\n\nZarrain is the daughter of Pakistani women's football President and Senator Rubina Irfan and the sister of Balochistan United and National team manager Raheela Zarmeen. Another sister, Shahlyla Baloch, died in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "3447995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3447995", "title": "Soomro", "text": "Soomro\n\nSoomro (or Soomra, Sumrah; () is a Sindhi tribe mainly based in Sindh, parts of Punjab bordering Sindh and in Balochistan, Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1717824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1717824", "title": "South Asian Canadians", "text": "South Asian Canadians\n\nSouth Asian Canadians are Canadians who were either born in or can trace their ancestry to South Asia, which includes nations such as India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Nepal. The term South Asian Canadian is a subgroup of Asian Canadian and, according to Statistics Canada, can further be divided by nationality, such as Indo-Canadian, Bangladeshi Canadian and Pakistani Canadian, or by ethnicity, such as Punjabi Canadian, Tamil Canadian and Gujarati Canadian. South Asians are the second largest pan-ethnic group in Canada after European-Canadians.\n\nAs of 2016, 1,963,330 Canadians had South Asian geographical origins, constituting 5.4% of the Canadian population and 32% of Canada's Asian Canadian population. This makes them the largest visible minority group in Canada comprising 25.6% of the visible minority population, followed by Chinese and Black Canadians respectively. The largest communities from South Asia are found in Ontario, British Columbia and Alberta. Metropolitan areas with large communities from South Asia include Toronto (995,125), Vancouver (287,900), Calgary (122,515), Montréal (90,815) and Edmonton (91,595).\n\nThe term 'Asian' in Canadian English generally refers to people from East and Southeast Asia. This differs from the British English definition of Asian, which includes South Asia but excludes East and Southeast Asians terming them as Oriental or East Asian instead. Thus, the term South Asian has come into common usage referring to Asians hailing from the Indian subcontinent. This includes countries such as India, Nepal, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and the Maldives. It does not include nations such as Afghanistan or Myanmar, which have been considered South Asian in some other connotations of the term.\n\nCanadians from South Asia may also be identified by their country of origin such as Indian or Pakistani. They may also be identified by their specific cultural backgrounds, for example Punjabi or Tamil. The term \"East Indian\" is a term used widely in Canada to refer to people hailing from India as opposed to Aboriginal peoples who are also sometimes referred to as \"Indian.\" This term has been made less common after the introduction of the general term \"South Asian\" in areas with significant Indian Canadian populations like Toronto. Desi are also sometimes used to refer to Canadians from India. However, these terms are avoided in more formal contexts due to their ambiguity and the possibility of being seen as derogatory.\n\nCensus Canada lists both cultural backgrounds like Bengali, Gujarati, Tamil and Goan in addition to cultures like East Indian, Bangladeshi, Sri Lankan and Pakistani.\n\nThe first known record of Canadians from South Asia dates back to 1903, when Punjabi Sikhs arrived in British Columbia after hearing stories about the high wages being paid there from British Indian soldiers stationed in Hong Kong. Attracted by these wages, more Sikh men began immigrating into British Columbia, working mainly in industries such as mining, logging and railroads. Many of these men, who arrived without their families, settled in Vancouver, Victoria, northern BC, and what is now Abbotsford, British Columbia. By the end of 1908, 5,209 Canadians were from South Asia, nearly all of whom were Sikhs settled across British Columbia. Soon the Sikh community in Canada began to face the ignorance of the Europeans by discrimination and xenophobia similar to what Japanese and Chinese were enduring then. European settlers viewed Asian migrants, and included the Sikhs, as a threat to the European nature of Canada, not considering their own impact on the Aboriginal population by immigration. In addition, many Asian have small migrants had to work for lower wages, which threatened the job security of the European majority at the time. In 1907 the government in British Columbia committed atrocities such as enacting laws limiting the rights and privileges of Canadians from South Asian countries, which prevented them from voting and denied them access to holding political office, public sector jobs and other professions. On January 8, 1908 Continuous journey regulation was enacted in an effort to prevent Sikhs from immigrated to Canada. The law required that people arriving from South Asia in Canada must \"come from the country of their birth or citizenship by a continuous journey and or through tickets purchased before leaving their country of their birth or nationality.\" This prevented Sikh soldiers stationed in Hong Kong and Japan from immigrating to Canada.\n\nA notable example of early anti-South Asian sentiments as a result of Continuous journey regulation in Canada was the \"Komagata Maru\" incident. A successful Sikh fisherman living in British Columbia attempting to circumnavigate the Continuous journey regulation chartered a Japanese steamship known as the \"Komagata Maru\" to travel from Kolkata, India to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The ship made stops in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Yokohama, where it picked up more Eastern-Caucasian settlers. In total the ship carried 376 passengers, of whom 300 were Sikh, 24 were Muslim and 12 were Hindu. All passengers were registered as British subjects. Upon arriving in Vancouver though the ship was not permitted to dock with several British Columbian politicians such as Conservative MP H.H. Stevens campaigning against their right to dock. Some Canadians already settled in Canada began launching 'shore committees' led by Hassam Rashim and Sohan Lal Pathak. These were to protest against the decision not to allow the settlers on the Komagata Maru no to enter Canada. Passengers threatened to start a rebellion, or \"ghadar\", if they were forced back to India. The shore committee raised $22,000 and launched a test case legal battle in the British Columbia Court of Appeal. Only July 6, the court disgracefully and unanimously decided they had no authority to interfere with the Department of Immigration and Colonization and had ordered the harbor tug \"Sea Lion\" to pull the ship out to sea in July 19. This resulted in rioting between the settlers on board and police officers. The ship was ultimately forced back to India on July 23, with only 20 of the settlers being allowed to stay in Canada.\n\nThe continuous journey regulation provision remained in effect until 1947, as did most other anti-South Asian laws. However pressure from the Eastern-Caucasian community resulted in the Canadian government allowing the wife and children of their Canadian husband/father to immigrate. Despite this by the mid-1920s this population in Canada had dropped to 1300. Despite their declining numbers Canadians from South Asia which was still primarily Sikh grew wealthier. They began to acquire their own lumber mills which they used to produce wood and sawdust for consumer purchase. During the Great Depression the tight-knit nature of the East-Indian community mitigated many of the economic effects the depression had on other communities. As a result of the recent independence of several South Asian nations such as India, Pakistan and Ceylon, now known as Sri Lanka, the Canadian government created annual immigration quotas which were to allow 150 Indians, 100 Pakistanis and 50 Sri Lankans the right to immigrate to Canada each year.\n\nBeginning in the 1960s racial and national restrictions were removed from Canada's immigration policies resulting in the explosive growth of South Asian community. The South Asian Canadian community grew from just 6,774 in 1961 to 67,925 just ten years later in 1971. Many of the South Asians arriving during the 60s, 70s were not directly from South Asia but instead from Southeast Africa. Discrimination in many African Great Lakes nations like Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania against Indians was growing as a result of their status as a market-dominant minority. This is when a minority group controls a disproportionately large segment of the economy due to their over representation in business and above average education. One notable incident of this was Ugandan dictator Idi Amin's expulsion of 80,000 Ugandan Indians as part of his economic war to allow indigenous Ugandans to regain control of the countries economy. As a result, nearly 20,000 Indians fled to Canada, some directly others after temperately settling in other nations in Africa. They eventually grew to be the first sizable non-Sikh South Asian community in Canada. Shenaaz Nanji's Governor General's Award-nominated novel \"Child of Dandelions\" deals with the expulsion of Indians from Uganda and their immigration to Canada.\n\nAround this time the Caribbean, mainly from Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago, and Indo-Fijians began immigrating to Canada as well, settling mainly in Toronto, Ontario. Many of these South Asians were the descendants of indentured laborers were brought by the colonial British government to replace the slaves on plantations. After completing their work terms the majority remained in these countries. Many of the immigrants who arrived from the Caribbean, the African Great Lakes and Fiji were educated professionals who upon arriving in Canada worked in the service sector or began their own businesses. As opposed to the industrial sector which mainly early Sikhs worked in.\n\nStarting in the 1980s South Asians arriving directly from the Indian subcontinent began to increase noticeably as well. In 1985 around 15,000 immigrants arrived from South Asia annually in 2012 that number was at 46,000 annually. In addition to the South Asians still arriving from other parts of the world like the Gulf of Arabia[disambiguation needed], Caribbean, the African Great Lakes and Fiji. As a result, the South Asian community began forming growing enclaves particularly in the Vancouver and Toronto area. Some notable areas are Gerrard Street, Brampton and several neighborhoods in Mississauga, Scarborough, Markham and Etobicoke in the Greater Toronto Area. In British Columbia notable South Asian districts include Surrey and Abbotsford.\n\nThe rise of the Khalistan movement, the secessionist movement that sought to make the Indian state of Punjab a separate nation for Sikhs. As a result, during the 1980s many Sikhs living in Canada began to involve themselves in the Khalistan movement by organizing protests in Canada and sending money to fund separatist groups back in India. These protests reached their peak in 1984 when the Indian army raided the Golden Temple which were followed by the assassination of Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards and finally anti-Sikh riots throughout North India. Several major anti-Indian protests occurred in Calgary, Vancouver and Toronto with angry protesters forcing their way into the Indian embassy in Toronto carrying knives and smashing photos of Indira Gandhi. On June 23, 1985, several Canadian Sikhs led by Talwinder Singh Parmar were arrested for the Air India Flight 182 bombing, which killed 329 people. It is considered the worst terrorist attack to ever be carried out by Canadians.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Sri Lankan civil war in 1983 many Sri Lankan Tamils were forced to flee persecution and violence and see refuge in Canada. This made Sri Lankan Canadians the fifth largest source of immigrants during the 1990s. It also made Canada home to the largest Tamil population in the Western World with 140,000 Tamils living in Canada, primarily Toronto and Montreal. The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, or Tamil Tigers, though officially recognized as terrorist group in Canada still receives widespread support among the Sri Lankan Tamil Canadian community.\n\nBeginning in the 21st century the makeup of Canadians from South Asia had changed greatly. Sikhs had gone from making up nearly 90% of Canadians from South Asia during much of the early 20th century to just 28% in 2001. This is as a result of a more diverse background of South Asians immigrating to Canada as opposed to the primarily Sikh and Punjabi immigrants of the early 20th century. In 2006 total South Asian Canadians outnumbered the specific numbers of Chinese Canadians as the largest visible minority group in Canada with 25% of visible minorities. On February 24, 2000 Ujjal Dosanjh became the first Canadian from South Asia premier of British Columbia, representing the New Democratic Party.\n\nDuring the first decade of the 21 century India remained the second largest source of invited immigrants behind China but ahead of the Philippines. Pakistan was also among the top ten sources of invited immigrants to Canada. In addition, India is also the second largest source of foreign students in Canada with 28,939 invited Indian students studying in Canada in 2012 compared with 1,747 in 2000. In 2007, BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir Toronto opened in Toronto, making it the largest Hindu temple in Canada. The Aga Khan Museum is also currently under construction by Ismaili Muslims hailing from Pakistan. Several other notable places of worship have been built by Canadians from South Asia including the Khalsa Darbar Gurdwara and Baitul Islam mosque.\n\nSouth Asian Canadian culture also began to move into the Canadian mainstream in the 21st century. Bhangra music, a genre of music from India that combines traditional Punjabi music with pop and hip hop and other Western musical styles has grown increasingly popular throughout Canada. Canadians of all backgrounds enjoy and are also familiar with Bollywood. In 2011 the 12th International Indian Film Academy Awards were hosted in Toronto, which was home to nearly 832,000 Canadians from a South Asian country, one of the largest in the Western World. \"How to Be Indie\", a Canadian children's television program produced by YTV, revolves around the daughter of Hindu Indian immigrants living in Toronto, and has since been syndicated in the United States, United Kingdom, Israel, Latin America and elsewhere. The Indian Canadian comedian Russell Peters has used his heritage as material for many of his jokes as well.\n\nIn the 2015 Canadian federal election, 16 South Asian Members of Parliament (MPs) were elected from Ontario alone, which is the most in Canadian history. Four South Asian ministers have been appointed to the Canadian cabinet, which includes the Minister of National Defence, Harjit Sajjan.\n\nThe first confirmed reports on the Canadians from India were in 1908 which put the East-Indian Canadian population at 5,209. The overwhelming majority of whom were Sikh, male, and settled in British Columbia. However, as a result of laws which restricted the immigration the community had declined to only 1,300 by the mid 1920s. By 1961, right before racial restriction were respectfully removed from Canada's immigration policy, Canadians from South Asian countries rose to 6,774. With racial quotas being removed (invitations extended) during the 1960s the number of Canadians from South Asia created the diverse population we see into the present day.\nAccording to the 2011 National Household Survey 1,615,920 Canadians from South Asian origins and 1,567,400 other Canadians were classified as belonging to the visible minority group, generally termed, South Asian. The growth of the population is attributed to sustained invitations of immigration from South Asian nations. According to a 2006 study conducted by Statistics Canada Canadians from South Asia will grow to between 3.1 and 4.1 million by 2031 or 8.1% to 9.2% of the Canadian population overall. As of 2011, Ontario, followed by British Columbia, had the largest population of Canadians from South Asia with Alberta and Quebec being home to significant communities as well. Metropolitan areas with large communities include the Toronto (834,000), Vancouver (252,000), Calgary (85,000), Montréal (79,000) and Edmonton (61,000). Municipalities with large communities include Brampton, Ontario (38.7%), Surrey, British Columbia (29.5%), Abbotsford, British Columbia (22.7%), Mississauga, Ontario (22.0%) and Markham, Ontario (19.4%). From 2001 to 2006 Milton, Ontario saw the greatest increase in its population growing by 1378.6% with many other towns seeing their population double or triple.\n\nCanadian provinces and territories by their \"South Asian\" population in 2011:\nCanadian metropolitan areas with large populations of Canadians from South Asia:\n\nSource: Canada 2016 Census\n\nNational average: 5.6%\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCanadians from South Asian tend to be significantly more religious than Canadians as a whole, with only 4% claiming to have no religion compared in 17% of Canadians in 2001. In addition 28% of Canadians from South Asia were Sikh, 28% Hindu, 22% Muslim and 16% Christian. Religious affiliation can vary greatly based on nationality as well. The majority of Pakistani Canadians and Bangladeshi Canadians profess to follow Islam, while the majority of Sri Lankan Canadians are Hindu with a significant minority following Christianity. Indian Canadians are split between Sikhs and Hindus with large minorities being Christian and Muslim as well. Nepalese Canadians tend to mostly follow Hindu with few of them following Buddhism.There are also a sizeable community of Canadians from South Asia adhering to religions such as Jainism, Buddhism and Zoroastrianism.\n\nReligion is found to play an important part in the lives of many Canadians from South Asia and serves as defining point in their identity, as with many people. Religious institutions such as gurdwaras, mosques, mandirs and churchs have often serve as points for the community. Religion can also play an important role in the marriage of some young Canadians from South Asia (who were born in Canada or in a country from South Asia). Some families believe that the couple must share the same religious heritage, which may also include caste, although this is becoming outdated. In recent years, Canadians from South Asia have opened private schools in order to preserve their religious heritage (as with Catholic schools), though the greatest majority attend government run schools.\n\nIn 1990 Baltej Singh Dhillon, a Canadian Sikh challenged the traditional dress code of the RCMP in order to accommodate his turban, a mandatory article of clothing worn by many Sikh men. The caused controversy with opponents arguing that the uniform of the RCMP was a national icon to be preserved, while proponents pointed out that Sikh soldiers served in the British army during World War I and World War II and also served in many Canadian police forces. On March 16, 1990 the policy was amended to include Sikhs to serve while wearing a turban. More recently in 2013 the Quebec Soccer Federation had banned Sikh players in turbans from participating in matches, citing that turbans were a health hazard, though it is practised in India. This move created controversy among the Sikh community in Canada and condemned by FIFA.\n\nFor much of the early 20th century restrictions such as the continuous journey regulation and quotas were placed on people immigrating from the countries of South Asia to prevent them from immigrating to Canada. When these restrictions were removed in the 1960s immigration from the Indian subcontinent and other places like the African Great Lakes, the Caribbean and Fiji gradually increased. As of 2012, India was the third largest source of immigrants for Canada behind the Philippines and China respectively. Pakistan was the fourth, Sri Lanka the seventeenth, Bangladesh the nineteenth and Nepal the thirty-eighth. In addition immigrants to Canada arrive from regions such as the Arab States of the Persian Gulf, the Caribbean and the African Great Lakes (as well as European countries). Historically, British Columbia was the traditional destination for Punjabi immigrants. Beginning in the 1970s, however, Ontario grew to become the top destination due to its job availability. In recent years migration to Alberta has also increased due to its comparatively stronger economy and better job market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31546241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31546241", "title": "Thakar (tribe)", "text": "Thakar (tribe)\n\nThakar is a forward tribe of India. They are Rajput tribe originally living in areas of Maharashtra but now scattered all over india\n\nThey are also called by other names like Thakar, Thakur, Ka Thakar, Ma Thakar (क ठाकर,म ठाकर) Ka Thakur and Ma Thakur (क ठाकुर,म ठाकुर). Thakars and Thakurs are Indo-Aryans and speak a dialect of Marathi.\n\nHowever, the surname Thakar (ठकार) belongs to the Deshastha Brahmin caste in Maharashtra. They are natives of Pune district but can be found in some nearby places of Maharashtra , including Aurangabad. They typically speak Marathi language.\n\nThe Thakars were originally living in all the hilly areas of Western Ghats in Maharashtra but are currently scatteres across the entire state. As per 2001 census, the population of the Thakurs/Thakars in Maharashtra was 487,696 and the literacy rate was 50.9%.\n\nThey have rich traditions of folk dance, songs and unique culture of their own. They celebrate Diwali in a different way. On this occasion, they light lamps made from a fruit called \"chibra\", which are placed on a stand made of cow-dung. At home, the celebrations are in form of a breakfast of boiled corn, sweet potato and \"chauli\". The grain stored in wicker basket called \"kangas\" is worshiped during Diwali. This time of year they do frenetic dance to the beats of dhols, crooning \"Amhi thakar thakar ya ranachi ga pakhar...\" (\"We are Thakars, Thakars.. the birds of these woods\").\n\nThe famous Marathi film \"Jait Re Jait\" depicted the Thakar tribe.\n"}
{"id": "3841009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3841009", "title": "The Human Zoo (book)", "text": "The Human Zoo (book)\n\nThe Human Zoo is a book written by the British zoologist Desmond Morris, published in 1969. It is a follow-up to his earlier book \"The Naked Ape\"; both books examine how the biological nature of the human species has shaped the character of the cultures of the contemporary world.\n\n\"The Human Zoo\" examines the nature of civilized society, especially in the cities. Morris compares the human inhabitants of a city to the animal inhabitants of a zoo, which have their survival needs provided for, but at the cost of living in an unnatural environment. Humans in their cities, and animals in their zoos, both have food and shelter provided for them, and have considerable free time on their hands. But they have to live in an unnatural environment, and are both likely to have problems in developing healthy social relationships, both are liable to suffer from isolation and boredom, and both live in a limited amount of physical space. The book explains how the inhabitants of cities and zoos have invented ways to deal with these problems, and the consequences that follow when they fail at dealing with them.\n\nFrom this point of view, Morris examines why civilized society is the way it is. He offers explanations of the best and the worst features of civilized society. He examines the magnificent achievements of civilized society, the sublime explorations that make up science and the humanities, as well as the horrible behaviors of this same society such as war, slavery, and rape. This book, and Morris's earlier book \"The Naked Ape\", are two of the early works in the field of sociobiology, which have both contributed much to contemporary understandings of society.\n\n"}
{"id": "884423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=884423", "title": "The Summit Lighthouse", "text": "The Summit Lighthouse\n\nThe Summit Lighthouse is an international spiritual organization founded on August 7, 1958, in Washington, D.C., by Mark L. Prophet. Today it is the outreach arm of Church Universal and Triumphant, founded in 1975 by Prophet's wife Elizabeth Clare Prophet. The stated mission of The Summit Lighthouse is to \"publish and apply the teachings of the ascended masters as taught by Mark and Elizabeth Clare Prophet.\" Ascended masters are believed to be individuals who have lived in physical bodies, acquired the Wisdom and Mastery needed to become Immortal and Free of the cycles of \"re-embodiment\" and karma, and attained their \"Ascension\". The \"Ascension\" is considered to be the complete permanent union of the purified inner self with the \"I AM\" Presence - an identity that is the unique Individualization of God of each person.\n\nThe Lighthouse was founded in 1958 by Mark Prophet, along with the Press and Fraternity. The Church was incorporated in 1975 by his wife Elizabeth, and has since become the public face of the organization. \n\nThe group believes that their messengers are the continuation of prophetic dispensation from God. They gained media notoriety when Elizabeth Clare Prophet made predictions of an impending nuclear holocaust that was prophesied to occur on April 23, 1990. When these predictions failed to come true, she reiterated her statements of impending doom, stating to her congregation: \"We need your sacrifice. The world is about to fail. I don't know where the bombs are coming from. But we must be ready.\" The group had stockpiled their shelter with military-grade weaponry, and members of the organization were later arrested on federal weapons charges. After Prophet was diagnosed with epilepsy and Alzheimer's disease, the group's leadership tried to draw the focus of its work away from doomsday predictions. \n\nThe Summit Lighthouse is part of an organizational structure that includes:\n\n\n\nThe goal of Summit University Press is to make the Teachings of the Ascended Masters, as delivered through the messengers Mark L. Prophet and Elizabeth Clare Prophet, available to all seekers. They have published many books over the years. Among them are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265672", "title": "Vere Street Coterie", "text": "Vere Street Coterie\n\nThe Vere Street Coterie were a group of men arrested at a molly house in Vere Street, London in 1810 for sodomy and attempted sodomy. Eight men were eventually convicted. Two of them were hanged (as per the then still extant sodomy laws promulgated by Henry VIII in 1534) and six were pilloried for this offence. Along with Oscar Wilde's imprisonment for a similar offence, this episode was one of the major events in gay history in England during the 19th century.\n\nThe White Swan on Vere Street in London was established as a molly-house in early 1810 by two men, James Cook (not the seafarer) and Yardley (full name unknown).\n\nThe club had been operating for less than six months when, on 8 July 1810, it was raided by the Bow Street police. Twenty-seven men were arrested, but the majority of them were released (perhaps as a result of bribes), and eight were tried and convicted.\n\nSix of the convicted men, who had been found guilty of attempted sodomy, were pilloried in the Haymarket on 27 September that year. The crowds who turned out to witness the scene were violent and unruly, throwing various objects (including rotten fish, dead cats, \"cannonballs\" made of mud, and vegetables) at the convicted men. The women in the crowd were reported as being particularly vicious. The city provided a guard force of 200 armed constables, half of them mounted and the other half on foot, to protect the men from even worse mistreatment.\n\nA man and a boy, John Hepburn (46) and Thomas White (16, a drummer boy), were convicted of the act of sodomy, despite not being present at the White Swan during the night of the raid. They were hanged at Newgate Prison on 7 March 1811.\n\nVere Street Coterie is also known in connection with alleged same sex marriages there, performed by Reverend John Church.\n\nThe history of the White Swan and the Vere Street Coterie were related by the lawyer Robert Holloway in \"The Phoenix of Sodom\" in 1813.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33130172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33130172", "title": "Women in dentistry in the United States", "text": "Women in dentistry in the United States\n\nThere is a long history of women in dentistry in the United States.\n\n"}
