{"id": "35281380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35281380", "title": "Acoustic jar", "text": "Acoustic jar\n\nAcoustic jars are ceramic vessels found set into the walls, and sometimes into the sides of cavities beneath the floors, of medieval churches. They are believed to have been intended to improve the sound of singing, and to have been inspired by the theories of Vitruvius .\n\nTuned bronze vases set in niches were used to modify the acoustics in Greek and Roman theatres. Their use is described by Vitruvius. No original examples survive.\n\nIn the Middle Ages the idea of the acoustic vessel re-emerged. Examples have been found in around 200 churches, half of them in France. They vary greatly in shape and positioning, but, unlike those described by Vitruvius they are ceramic, and are found enclosed within the fabric of building. The function of the jars was established with the discovery of a reference in the \"Chronicle of the Celestins of Metz\". The chronicler recorded that, in 1432: on the vigil of the Assumption, after brother Odo le Roy, the prior, had returned from the before-mentioned general chapter, it was ordered that pots should be put into the choir of the church of this place, he stating that he had seen such in a church elsewhere thinking that they made the singing better, and resound more, they were put up there in one day, by taking as many workmen as were necessary.\nModern experiments have indicated that their effect would have been to absorb the resonance of certain frequencies, rather than to amplify sound.\n\nThey use of the jars was said to be common in Brittany, and around Clisson, in the Loire Inferieure. In the Clisson area, they were usually found in horizontal rows at a height of about three metres above floor level. In 1859 a correspondent to \"Archaeologia Cambrensis \" reported that at Pallet there was \"a \"modern\" chapel, with earthenware vessels inserted in the walls of the choir, expressly for acoustic purposes\". In England, a set of eleven jars survives high on the chancel walls of St Andrews church at Lyddington, Rutland. \n\nAt St Peter Mancroft in Norwich two L-shaped trenches accommodating a number of acoustic jars were discovered beneath the wooden floor on which the choir stalls had previously stood. They had rubble walls and concrete bottoms, and the surfaces were rendered over. Earthenware jars were built into the walls at intervals of about three feet, with the mouths facing into the trench. The jars were about 9 ½ inches long, and 8 inches across at their widest, narrowing to 6 inches at the mouth. A similar discovery was made at St Peter Parmentergate, Norwich in the same city. At Fountains Abbey, in Yorkshire several earthenware vessels were discovered mortared into the base of the choir screen, their necks protruding through the stonework.\n\nThe effectiveness of the medieval jars has sometimes been doubted. The Chronicler of Metz, in the only medieval source for the purpose of the jars, mocks the prior for believing that they might have improved the sound of the choir, and the archaeologist Ralph Merrifield suggested that their use might have owed more to a tradition of votive deposits than to the theories of Vitruvius.\n\nIn 2011, at The Acoustics of Ancient Theatres conference, held in Patra, Greece, P. Karampatzakis and V. Zafranas presented evidence that Vitruvius' theory was in fact correct, and that the reconstruction of an ancient acoustic vase is possible.\n"}
{"id": "3285684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3285684", "title": "Ancient DNA", "text": "Ancient DNA\n\nAncient DNA (aDNA) is DNA isolated from ancient specimens. Due to degradation processes (including cross-linking, deamination and fragmentation) ancient DNA is of lower quality in comparison with modern genetic material. Even under the best preservation conditions, there is an upper boundary of 0.4-1.5 million years for a sample at around to contain sufficient DNA for contemporary sequencing technologies. Genetic material has been recovered from archaeological and historical skeletal material, mummified tissues, archival collections of non-frozen medical specimens, preserved plant remains, ice and permafrost cores as well as marine and lake sediments.\n\nThe first study of what would come to be called aDNA was conducted in 1984, when Russ Higuchi and colleagues at the University of California, Berkeley reported that traces of DNA from a museum specimen of the Quagga not only remained in the specimen over 150 years after the death of the individual, but could be extracted and sequenced. Over the next two years, through investigations into natural and artificially mummified specimens, Svante Pääbo confirmed that this phenomenon was not limited to relatively recent museum specimens but could apparently be replicated in a range of mummified human samples that dated as far back as several thousand years.\n\nThe laborious processes that were required at that time to sequence such DNA (through bacterial cloning) were an effective brake on the development of the field of ancient DNA (aDNA). However, with the development of the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) in the late 1980s, the field began to progress rapidly. Double primer PCR amplification of aDNA (jumping-PCR) can produce highly skewed and non-authentic sequence artifacts. Multiple primer, nested PCR strategy was used to overcome those shortcomings.\n\nThe post-PCR era heralded a wave of publications as numerous research groups tried their hands at aDNA. Soon a series of incredible findings had been published, claiming authentic DNA could be extracted from specimens that were millions of years old, into the realms of what Lindahl (1993b) has labelled Antediluvian DNA. The majority of such claims were based on the retrieval of DNA from organisms preserved in amber. Insects such as stingless bees, termites, and wood gnats, as well as plant and bacterial sequences were extracted from Dominican amber dating to the Oligocene epoch. Still older sources of Lebanese amber-encased weevils, dating to within the Cretaceous epoch, reportedly also yielded authentic DNA. DNA retrieval was not limited to amber.\n\nSeveral sediment-preserved plant remains dating to the Miocene were successfully investigated. Then, in 1994 and to international acclaim, Woodward \"et al.\" reported the most exciting results to date — mitochondrial cytochrome b sequences that had apparently been extracted from dinosaur bones dating to more than 80 million years ago. When in 1995 two further studies reported dinosaur DNA sequences extracted from a Cretaceous egg, it seemed that the field would revolutionize knowledge of the Earth's evolutionary past. Even these extraordinary ages were topped by the claimed retrieval of 250-million-year-old halobacterial sequences from halite.\n\nWhole genome sequencing started to yield results in 1995.\n\nSingle primer extension (abr. SPEX) amplification was introduced in 2007 to address postmortem DNA modification damage.\n\nSince 2009 the field of aDNA-studies has been revolutionzed, with the introduction of much cheaper research-techniques, leading to new insights in human migrations.\n\nDue to degradation processes (including cross-linking, deamination and fragmentation) ancient DNA is of lower quality in comparison with modern genetic material. The damage characteristics and ability of aDNA to survive through time restricts possible analyses and places an upper limit on the age of successful samples Allentoft \"et al.\" (2012). There is a theoretical correlation between time and DNA degradation, although differences in environmental conditions complicates things. Samples subjected to different conditions are unlikely to predictably align to a uniform age-degradation relationship. The environmental effects may even matter after excavation, as DNA decay rates may increase, particularly under fluctuating storage conditions. Even under the best preservation conditions, there is an upper boundary of 0.4-1.5 million years for a sample at around to contain sufficient DNA for contemporary sequencing technologies.\n\nResearch into the decay of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA in Moa bones has modelled mitochondrial DNA degradation to an average length of 1 base pair after 6,830,000 years at −5 °C. The decay kinetics have been measured by accelerated aging experiments further displaying the strong influence of storage temperature and humidity on DNA decay. Nuclear DNA degrades at least twice as fast as mtDNA. As such, early studies that reported recovery of much older DNA, for example from Cretaceous dinosaur remains, may have stemmed from contamination of the sample.\n\nA critical review of ancient DNA literature through the development of the field highlights that few studies after about 2002 have succeeded in amplifying DNA from remains older than several hundred thousand years. A greater appreciation for the risks of environmental contamination and studies on the chemical stability of DNA have resulted in concerns being raised over previously reported results. The dinosaur DNA was later revealed to be human Y-chromosome, while the DNA reported from encapsulated halobacteria has been criticized based on its similarity to modern bacteria, which hints at contamination. A 2007 study also suggests that these bacterial DNA samples may not have survived from ancient times, but may instead be the product of long-term, low-level metabolic activity.\n\naDNA may contain a large number of postmortem mutations, increasing with time. Some regions of polynucleotite are more susceptible to this degradation, so sequence data can bypass statistical filters used to check the validity of data. Due to sequencing errors, great caution should be applied to interpretation of population size. Substitutions resulting from deamination cytosine residues are vastly over-represented in the ancient DNA sequences. Miscoding of C to T and G to A accounts for the majority of errors.\n\nAnother problem with ancient DNA samples is contamination by modern human DNA and by microbial DNA (most of which is also ancient). New methods have emerged in recent years to prevent possible contamination of aDNA samples, including conducting extractions under extreme sterile conditions, using special adapters to identify endogenous molecules of the sample (over ones that may have been introduced during analysis), and applying bioinformatics to resulting sequences based on known reads in order approximate rates of contamination.\n\nDespite the problems associated with 'antediluvian' DNA, a wide and ever-increasing range of aDNA sequences have now been published from a range of animal and plant taxa. Tissues examined include artificially or naturally mummified animal remains, bone (c.f. Hagelberg \"et al.\" 1989; Cooper \"et al.\" 1992; Hagelberg \"et al.\" 1994), paleofaeces, alcohol preserved specimens (Junqueira \"et al.\" 2002), rodent middens, dried plant remains (Goloubinoff \"et al.\" 1993; Dumolin-Lapegue \"et al.\" 1999) and recently, extractions of animal and plant DNA directly from soil samples.\n\nIn June 2013, a group of researchers announced that they had sequenced the DNA of a 560–780 thousand year old horse, using material extracted from a leg bone found buried in permafrost in Canada's Yukon territory.\n\nIn 2013, a German team reconstructed the mitochondrial genome of an \"Ursus deningeri\" more than 300,000 years old, proving that authentic ancient DNA can be preserved for hundreds of thousand years outside of permafrost.\n\nResearchers in 2016 measured chloroplast DNA in marine sediment cores, and found diatom DNA dating back to 1.4 million years. This DNA had a half-life significantly longer than previous research, of up to 15,000 years. Kirkpatrick's team also found that DNA only decayed along a half-life rate until about 100 thousand years, at which point it followed a slower, power-law decay rate. \n\nDue to the considerable anthropological, archaeological, and public interest directed toward human remains, they have received considerable attention from the DNA community.\n\nDue to the morphological preservation in mummies, many studies from the 1990s and 2000s used mummified tissue as a source of ancient human DNA. Examples include both naturally preserved specimens, for example, those preserved in ice, such as the Ötzi the Iceman (Handt \"et al.\" 1994), or through rapid desiccation, such as high-altitude mummies from the Andes (c.f. Pääbo 1986; Montiel \"et al.\" 2001), as well as various sources of artificially preserved tissue (such as the chemically treated mummies of ancient Egypt). However, mummified remains are a limited resource. The majority of human aDNA studies have focused on extracting DNA from two sources that are much more common in the archaeological record – bone and teeth. Several other sources have also yielded DNA, including paleofaeces (Poinar \"et al.\" 2001) and hair (Baker \"et al.\" 2001, Gilbert \"et al.\" 2004). Contamination remains a major problem when working on ancient human material.\n\nAncient pathogen DNA has been successfully retrieved from samples dating to more than 5,000 years old in humans and as long as 17,000 years ago in other species. In addition to the usual sources of mummified tissue, bones and teeth, such studies have also examined a range of other tissue samples, including calcified pleura (Donoghue \"et al.\" 1998), tissue embedded in paraffin, and formalin-fixed tissue. Efficient computational tools have been developed for pathogen and microorganism aDNA analyses in a small (QIIME) and large scale (FALCON ).\n\nTaking preventative measures in their procedure against such contamination though, a 2012 study analyzed bone samples of a Neanderthal group in the El Sidrón cave, finding new insights on potential kinship and genetic diversity from the aDNA. In November 2015, scientists reported finding a 110,000-year-old tooth containing DNA from the Denisovan hominin, an extinct species of human in the genus Homo.\n\nThe research has added new complexity to the peopling of Eurasia. It has also revealed new information about links between the ancestors of Central Asians and the indigenous peoples of the Americas. In Africa, older DNA degrades quickly due to the warmer tropical climate, although, in September 2017, ancient DNA samples, as old as 8,100 years old, have been reported.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48395647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48395647", "title": "Arcus Novus", "text": "Arcus Novus\n\nThe Arcus Novus was an ancient arch in Rome, located on the \"Via lata\" (now the Via del Corso ), at the site of the church of Santa Maria in Via Lata.\n\nThe arch was dedicated to Diocletian either for the occasion of his \"decennalia\" in 293 AD, or his triumph celebrated with Maximian in 303–304. The name Arcus novus (new arch) probably refers to the earlier Arch of Claudius on the same street.\n\nThe Arcus Novus was decorated with reliefs reused (\"spolia\") from a large altar of the Julio-Claudian period, most probably the \"Ara pietatis\", while the column plinths were decorated with images of \"Victoria\", barbarian prisoners and the Dioskouri, probably from the facade of the nearby Temple of the Sun of Aurelian. The arch was destroyed in 1491 by order of Pope Innocent VIII during reconstruction of Santa Maria in Via Lata.\n\nFragments of the reliefs were discovered in 1523 and added to the Della Valle collection before being acquired by Cardinal Ferdinand de' Medici in 1584, from where the plinths found their way to the Boboli Gardens in Florence. Other fragments from the Antonine period, reused by Diocletian, were included in the rear facade of the cardinal's Villa Medici in Rome. More recently excavations carried out in 1923–1933 discovered further fragments now in the Centrale Montemartini.\n\n"}
{"id": "606821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606821", "title": "Assyriology", "text": "Assyriology\n\nAssyriology (from Greek , \"Assyriā\"; and , \"-logia\") is the archaeological, historical, and linguistic study of not just Assyria, but the entirety of ancient Mesopotamia (a region encompassing what is today modern Iraq, north eastern Syria, south eastern Turkey, and north western and south western Iran) and of related cultures that used cuneiform writing. The field covers Sumer, the early Sumero-Akkadian city-states, the Akkadian Empire, Ebla, the Akkadian and Imperial Aramaic speaking states of Assyria, Babylonia and the Sealand Dynasty, the migrant foreign dynasties of southern Mesopotamia, including; the Gutians, Amorites, Kassites, Arameans, Suteans and Chaldeans, and to some degree post-imperial Achaemenid Assyria, Athura, Seleucid Syria, Assyria (Roman province), and Assuristan, together with later Neo-Assyrian states such as Adiabene, Osroene, Hatra, Beth Nuhadra and Beth Garmai, up until the Arab invasion and Islamic conquest of the mid 7th century AD. Some Assyriologists also write on the further Assyrian continuity of the Assyrian people as well as the Mandaeans into the present day.\n\nThe large number of cuneiform clay tablets preserved by these Sumero-Akkadian and Assyro-Babylonian cultures provide an extremely large resource for the study of the period. The region's (and indeed the world's) first cities and city-states such as Ur are archaeologically invaluable for studying the growth of urbanization.\n\nScholars need a good knowledge of several languages: The two main languages of Mesopotamia; Akkadian (including its major dialects) and Sumerian, together with such neighbouring languages as Biblical Hebrew, Hittite, Elamite, Hurrian, Indo-Anatolian, Imperial Aramaic, Eastern Aramaic dialects, Old Persian and Canaanite for comparative purposes, and the knowledge of writing systems that use several hundred core signs. There now exist many important grammatical studies and lexical aids. Although scholars can draw from a large corpus of literature, some tablets are broken, or in the case of literary texts where there may be many copies, the language and grammar are often arcane. Moreover, scholars must be able to read and understand modern English, French, and German, as important references, dictionaries, and journals are published in those languages.\n\nFor many centuries, European knowledge of Mesopotamia was largely confined to often dubious classical sources, as well as biblical writings. From the Middle Ages onward, there were scattered reports of ancient Mesopotamian ruins. As early as the 12th century, the ruins of Nineveh were correctly identified by Benjamin of Tudela (also known as Benjamin Son of Jonah), a rabbi from Navarre, who visited the Jews of Mosul and the ruins of Assyria during his travels throughout the Middle East. The identification of the city of Babylon was made in 1616 by Pietro Della Valle. Not only did Pietro give \"remarkable descriptions\" of the site, but he also brought back to Europe inscribed bricks that he had found at Nineveh and Ur.\n\nBetween 1761 and 1767, Carsten Niebuhr, a Danish mathematician, made copies of cuneiform inscriptions at Persepolis in Persia as well as sketches and drawing of Nineveh, and was shortly followed by André Michaux, a French botanist and explorer, who sold the French Bibliothèque Nationale de Paris an inscribed boundary stone found near Baghdad. The first known archeological excavation in Mesopotamia was led by Abbé Beauchamp, papal vicar general at Baghdad, excavating the sculpture now generally known as the \"Lion of Babylon.\" Abbé Beauchamp's memoirs of his travels, published in 1790, sparked a sensation in the scholarly world, generating a number of archeological and academic expeditions to the Middle East. In 1811, Claudius James Rich, an Englishman and a resident for the East India Company in Baghdad, began examining and mapping the ruins of Babylon and Nineveh, and collecting numerous inscribed bricks, tablets, boundary stones, and cylinders, including the famous Nebuchadnezzar Cylinder and Sennacherib Cylinder, a collection which formed the nucleus of the Mesopotamian antiquities collection at the British Museum. Before his untimely death at the age of 34, he wrote two memoirs on the ruins of Babylon and the inscriptions found therein, two works which may be said to \"mark the birth of Assyriology and the related cuneiform studies.\"\n\nOne of the largest obstacles scholars had to overcome during the early days of Assyriology was the decipherment of curious triangular markings on many of the artifacts and ruins found at Mesopotamian sites. These markings, which were termed \"cuneiform\" by Thomas Hyde in 1700, were long considered to be merely decorations and ornaments. It was not until late in the 18th century that they came to be considered some sort of writing.\n\nIn 1778 Carsten Niebuhr, the Danish mathematician, published accurate copies of three trilingual inscriptions from the ruins at Persepolis. Niebuhr showed that the inscriptions were written from left to right, and that each of the three inscriptions contained three different types of cuneiform writing, which he labeled Class I, Class II, and Class III. \n\nClass I was determined to be alphabetic and consisting of 44 characters, and was written in Old Persian. It was first deciphered by Georg Friedrich Grotefend and Henry Creswicke Rawlinson between 1802 and 1848.\n\nThe second inscription, Class II, proved more difficult to translate. In 1850, Edward Hincks published a paper showing that the Class II was not alphabetical, but was in fact both syllabic and ideographic, which led to its translation between 1850 and 1859. The language was at first called Babylonian and/or Assyrian, but has now come to be known as Akkadian.\n\nFrom 1850 onwards, there was a growing suspicion that the Semite inhabitants of Babylon and Assyria were not the inventors of cuneiform system of writing, and that they had instead borrowed it from some other language and culture. In 1850, Edward Hincks published a paper suggesting that cuneiform was instead invented by some non-Semitic people who had preceded the Semites in Babylon. In 1853, Rawlinson came to similar conclusions, and the Class III inscriptions were recognized as being written in this more Ancient language, a language which was then called \"Akkadian\" or \"Scythian\" but which is now known to be Sumerian. This was the first indication to modern scholarship that this older culture and people, the Sumerians, existed at all.\n\nSystematic excavation of Mesopotamian antiquities was begun in earnest in 1842, with Paul-Émile Botta, the French consul at Mosul. The excavations of P.E. Botta at Khorsabad and Austen H. Layard (from 1845) at Nimrud and Nineveh, as well as the successful decipherment of the cuneiform system of writing opened up a new world. Layard's discovery of the library of Assur-bani-pal put the materials for reconstructing the ancient life and history of Assyria and Babylonia into the hands of scholars. He also was the first to excavate in Babylonia, where C.J. Rich had already done useful topographical work. Layard's excavations in this latter country were continued by W.K. Loftus, who also opened trenches at Susa, as well as by Julius Oppert on behalf of the French government. But it was only in the last quarter of the 19th century that anything like systematic exploration was attempted.\n\nAfter the death of George Smith at Aleppo in 1876, an expedition was sent by the British Museum (1877–1879), under the conduct of Hormuzd Rassam, to continue his work at Nineveh and its neighbourhood. Excavations in the mounds of Balaw~t, called Imgur-Bel by the Assyrians, 15 miles east of Mosul, resulted in the discovery of a small temple dedicated to the god of dreams by Ashurnasirpal II (883 BC), containing a stone coffer or ark in which were two inscribed tables of alabaster of rectangular shape, as well as of a palace which had been destroyed by the Babylonians but restored by Shalmaneser III (858 BC). From the latter came the bronze gates with hammered reliefs, which are now in the British Museum.\n\nThe remains of a palace of Ashurbanipal at Nimrud (Calah) were also excavated, and hundreds of enamelled tiles were disinterred. Two years later (1880–1881) Rassam was sent to Babylonia, where he discovered the site of the temple of the sun-god of Sippara at Abu-Habba, and so fixed the position of the two Sipparas or Sepharvaim. Abu-Habba lies south-west of Baghdad, midway between the Euphrates and Tigris, on the south side of a canal, which may once have represented the main stream of the Euphrates, Sippara of the goddess Anunit, now Dir, being on its opposite bank.\n\nMeanwhile (1877–1881) the French consul Ernest de Sarzec had been excavating at Telloh, ancient Girsu, and bringing to light monuments of the pre-Semitic age; these included the diorite statues of Gudea now in the Louvre, the stone of which (according to the inscriptions upon them) had been brought from Magan in the Sinai peninsula. The subsequent excavations of de Sarzec in Telloh and its neighbourhood carried the history of the city back to at least 4000 BC, and a collection. of more than 30,000 tablets has been found, which were arranged on shelves in the time of Gudea (c. 2100 BC).\n\nIn 1886–1887 a German expedition under Dr Robert Koldewey explored the cemetery of El Hiba (immediately to the south of Telloh), and for the first time made us acquainted with the burial customs of ancient Babylonia. Another German expedition, on a large scale, was despatched by the \"Orientgesellschaft\" in 1899 with the object of exploring the ruins of Babylon; the palace of Nebuchadrezzar and the great processional road were laid bare, and Dr W. Andrae subsequently conducted excavations at Qal'at Sherqat, the site of Assur.\n\nEven the Turkish government has not held aloof from the work of exploration, and the Museum at İstanbul is filled with the tablets discovered by V. Scheil in 1897 on the site of Sippara. Jacques de Morgan's exceptionally important work at Susa lies outside the limits of Babylonia; not so, however, the American excavations (1903–1904) under EJ Banks at Bismaya (Ijdab), and those of the University of Pennsylvania at Nippur between 1889 and 1900, where Mr JH Haynes has systematically and patiently uncovered the remains of the great temple of El-lil, removing layer after layer of debris and cutting sections in the ruins down to the virgin soil. Midway in the mound is a platform of large bricks stamped with the names of Sargon of Akkad and his son, Naram-Sin (2300 BC); as the debris above them is 34 feet thick, the topmost stratum being not later than the Parthian era (HV Hilprecht, \"The Babylonian Expedition\", p. 23), it is calculated that the debris underneath the pavement, 30 feet thick, must represent a period of about 3000 years, more especially as older constructions had to be leveled before the pavement was laid. In the deepest part of the excavations, however, inscribed clay tablets and fragments of stone vases are still found, though the cuneiform characters upon them are of a very archaic type, and sometimes even retain their primitive pictorial forms.\n\nNoted Assyriologists include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14172213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14172213", "title": "Bollingen Foundation", "text": "Bollingen Foundation\n\nThe Bollingen Foundation was an educational foundation set up along the lines of a university press in 1945. It was named for Bollingen Tower, Carl Jung's country home in Bollingen, Switzerland. Funding was provided by Paul Mellon and his wife Mary Conover Mellon. The Foundation became inactive in 1968.\n\nInitially the foundation was dedicated to the dissemination of Jung's work, which was a particular interest of Mary Conover Mellon. The Bollingen Series of books that it sponsored now includes more than 250 related volumes. The Bollingen Foundation also awarded more than 300 fellowships. These fellowships were an important, continuing source of funding for poets like Alexis Leger and Marianne Moore, scientists like Károly Kerényi and Mircea Eliade artists like Isamu Noguchi, among many others. The Foundation also sponsored the A. W. Mellon lectures at the National Gallery of Art.\n\nIn 1948, the foundation donated $10,000 to the Library of Congress to be used toward a $1,000 Bollingen Prize for the best poetry each year. The Library of Congress fellows, who in that year included T. S. Eliot, W. H. Auden and Conrad Aiken, gave the 1949 prize to Ezra Pound for his 1948 \"Pisan Cantos\". Their choice was highly controversial, in particular because of Pound's fascist and anti-Semitic politics. Following the publication of two highly negative articles by Robert Hillyer in the \"Saturday Review of Literature\", the United States Congress passed a resolution that effectively discontinued the involvement of the Library of Congress with the prize. The remaining funds were returned to the Foundation. In 1950, the Bollingen Prize was continued under the auspices of the Yale University Library, which awarded the 1950 prize to Wallace Stevens.\n\nIn 1968, the Foundation became inactive. It was largely subsumed into the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, which continued funding of the Bollingen Prize. The Bollingen Series was given to Princeton University Press to carry on and complete. Over its lifetime, the Bollingen Foundation had expended about $20 million. Thomas Bender has written, \nA great many texts that were issued in the original Pantheon Books version of the Bollingen Series and in early editions by Princeton University Press are now out of print. The Princeton Press site does not provide a comprehensive list, and is missing some of the key texts in the series and some of the grandest in vision, \"e.g.\" The Egyptian Religious Texts series. A list of the works in the series, complete to 1982, appears as an appendix to William McGuire's book, pp. 295–309. The list below is based on McGuire's list and information appearing in the individual volumes, with help from the Princeton site and from The Library Congress Online Catalog.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1090993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1090993", "title": "Bunroku", "text": "Bunroku\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5377", "title": "Calendar", "text": "Calendar\n\nA calendar is a system of organizing days for social, religious, commercial or administrative purposes. This is done by giving names to periods of time, typically days, weeks, months and years. A date is the designation of a single, specific day within such a system. A calendar is also a physical record (often paper) of such a system. A calendar can also mean a list of planned events, such as a court calendar or a partly or fully chronological list of documents, such as a calendar of wills.\n\nPeriods in a calendar (such as years and months) are usually, though not necessarily, synchronised with the cycle of the sun or the moon. The most common type of pre-modern calendar was the lunisolar calendar, a lunar calendar that occasionally adds one intercalary month to remain synchronised with the solar year over the long term.\n\nThe term \"calendar\" is taken from \"calendae\", the term for the first day of the month in the Roman calendar, related to the verb \"calare\" \"to call out\", referring to the \"calling\" of the new moon when it was first seen.\nLatin \"calendarium\" meant \"account book, register\" (as accounts were settled and debts were collected on the calends of each month). The Latin term was adopted in Old French as \"calendier\" and from there in Middle English as \"calender\" by the 13th century (the spelling \"calendar\" is early modern).\n\nThe course of the sun and the moon are the most salient natural, regularly recurring events useful for timekeeping, thus in pre-modern societies worldwide lunation and the year were most commonly used as time units. Nevertheless, the Roman calendar contained remnants of a very ancient pre-Etruscan 10-month solar year. The first recorded physical calendars, dependent on the development of writing in the Ancient Near East, are the Bronze Age Egyptian and Sumerian calendars.\n\nA large number of Ancient Near East calendar systems based on the Babylonian calendar date from the Iron Age, among them the calendar system of the Persian Empire, which in turn gave rise to the Zoroastrian calendar and the Hebrew calendar.\n\nA great number of Hellenic calendars developed in Classical Greece, and in the Hellenistic period gave rise to both the ancient Roman calendar and to various Hindu calendars.\n\nCalendars in antiquity were lunisolar, depending on the introduction of intercalary months to align the solar and the lunar years. This was mostly based on observation, but there may have been early attempts to model the pattern of intercalation algorithmically, as evidenced in the fragmentary 2nd-century Coligny calendar.\n\nThe Roman calendar was reformed by Julius Caesar in 45 BC. The Julian calendar was no longer dependent on the observation of the new moon but simply followed an algorithm of introducing a leap day every four years. This created a dissociation of the calendar month from the lunation.\n\nThe Islamic calendar is based on the prohibition of intercalation (\"nasi'\") by Muhammad, in Islamic tradition dated to a sermon held on 9 Dhu al-Hijjah AH 10 (Julian date: 6 March 632). This resulted in an observation-based lunar calendar that shifts relative to the seasons of the solar year.\n\nThe first calendar reform of the early modern era was the Gregorian calendar, introduced in 1582 based on the observation of a long-term shift between the Julian calendar and the solar year.\n\nThere have been a number of modern proposals for reform of the calendar, such as the World Calendar, International Fixed Calendar, Holocene calendar, and, recently, the Hanke-Henry Permanent Calendar. Such ideas are mooted from time to time but have failed to gain traction because of the loss of continuity, massive upheaval in implementation, and religious objections.\n\nA full calendar system has a different calendar date for every day. Thus the week cycle is by itself not a full calendar system; neither is a system to name the days within a year without a system for identifying the years.\n\nThe simplest calendar system just counts time periods from a reference date. This applies for the Julian day or Unix Time. Virtually the only possible variation is using a different reference date, in particular, one less distant in the past to make the numbers smaller. Computations in these systems are just a matter of addition and subtraction.\n\nOther calendars have one (or multiple) larger units of time.\n\nCalendars that contain one level of cycles:\n\nCalendars with two levels of cycles:\n\nCycles can be synchronized with periodic phenomena:\n\n\nVery commonly a calendar includes more than one type of cycle, or has both cyclic and non-cyclic elements.\n\nMost calendars incorporate more complex cycles. For example, the vast majority of them track years, months, weeks and days. The seven-day week is practically universal, though its use varies. It has run uninterrupted for millennia.\n\nSolar calendars assign a \"date\" to each solar day. A day may consist of the period between sunrise and sunset, with a following period of night, or it may be a period between successive events such as two sunsets. The length of the interval between two such successive events may be allowed to vary slightly during the year, or it may be averaged into a mean solar day. Other types of calendar may also use a solar day.\n\nNot all calendars use the solar year as a unit. A lunar calendar is one in which days are numbered within each lunar phase cycle. Because the length of the lunar month is not an even fraction of the length of the tropical year, a purely lunar calendar quickly drifts against the seasons, which do not vary much near the equator. It does, however, stay constant with respect to other phenomena, notably tides. An example is the Islamic calendar.\nAlexander Marshack, in a controversial reading, believed that marks on a bone baton (c. 25,000 BC) represented a lunar calendar. Other marked bones may also represent lunar calendars. Similarly, Michael Rappenglueck believes that marks on a 15,000-year-old cave painting represent a lunar calendar.\n\nA lunisolar calendar is a lunar calendar that compensates by adding an extra month as needed to realign the months with the seasons. An example is the Hebrew calendar which uses a 19-year cycle.\n\nNearly all calendar systems group consecutive days into \"months\" and also into \"years\". In a \"solar calendar\" a \"year\" approximates Earth's tropical year (that is, the time it takes for a complete cycle of seasons), traditionally used to facilitate the planning of agricultural activities. In a \"lunar calendar\", the \"month\" approximates the cycle of the moon phase. Consecutive days may be grouped into other periods such as the week.\n\nBecause the number of days in the \"tropical year\" is not a whole number, a solar calendar must have a different number of days in different years. This may be handled, for example, by adding an extra day in leap years. The same applies to months in a lunar calendar and also the number of months in a year in a lunisolar calendar. This is generally known as intercalation. Even if a calendar is solar, but not lunar, the year cannot be divided entirely into months that never vary in length.\n\nCultures may define other units of time, such as the week, for the purpose of scheduling regular activities that do not easily coincide with months or years. Many cultures use different baselines for their calendars' starting years. For example, the year in Japan is based on the reign of the current emperor: 2006 was Year 18 of the Emperor Akihito.\n\nAn \"astronomical calendar\" is based on ongoing observation; examples are the religious Islamic calendar and the old religious Jewish calendar in the time of the Second Temple. Such a calendar is also referred to as an \"observation-based\" calendar. The advantage of such a calendar is that it is perfectly and perpetually accurate. The disadvantage is that working out when a particular date would occur is difficult.\n\nAn \"arithmetic calendar\" is one that is based on a strict set of rules; an example is the current Jewish calendar. Such a calendar is also referred to as a \"rule-based\" calendar. The advantage of such a calendar is the ease of calculating when a particular date occurs. The disadvantage is imperfect accuracy. Furthermore, even if the calendar is very accurate, its accuracy diminishes slowly over time, owing to changes in Earth's rotation. This limits the lifetime of an accurate arithmetic calendar to a few thousand years. After then, the rules would need to be modified from observations made since the invention of the calendar.\n\nCalendars may be either complete or incomplete. Complete calendars provide a way of naming each consecutive day, while incomplete calendars do not. The early Roman calendar, which had no way of designating the days of the winter months other than to lump them together as \"winter\", is an example of an incomplete calendar, while the Gregorian calendar is an example of a complete calendar.\n\nThe primary practical use of a calendar is to identify days: to be informed about or to agree on a future event and to record an event that has happened. Days may be significant for agricultural, civil, religious or social reasons. For example, a calendar provides a way to determine when to start planting or harvesting, which days are religious or civil holidays, which days mark the beginning and end of business accounting periods, and which days have legal significance, such as the day taxes are due or a contract expires. Also a calendar may, by identifying a day, provide other useful information about the day such as its season.\n\nCalendars are also used to help people manage their personal schedules, time and activities, particularly when individuals have numerous work, school, and family commitments. People frequently use multiple systems, and may keep both a business and family calendar to help prevent them from overcommitting their time.\n\nCalendars are also used as part of a complete timekeeping system: date and time of day together specify a moment in time. In the modern world, timekeepers can show time, date and weekday. Some may also show lunar phase.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar is the \"de facto\" international standard, and is used almost everywhere in the world for civil purposes. It is a purely solar calendar, with a cycle of leap days in a 400-year cycle designed to keep the duration of the year aligned with the solar year.\n\nEach Gregorian year has either 365 or 366 days (the leap day being inserted as 29 February), amounting to an average Gregorian year of 365.2425 days (compared to a solar year of 365.2422 days). It was introduced in 1582 as a refinement to the Julian calendar which had been in use throughout the European Middle Ages, amounting to a 0.002% correction in the length of the year.\n\nDuring the Early Modern period, however, its adoption was mostly limited to Roman Catholic nations, but by the 19th century, it became widely adopted worldwide for the sake of convenience in international trade. The last European country to adopt the reform was Greece, in 1923.\n\nThe calendar epoch used by the Gregorian calendar is inherited from the medieval convention established by Dionysius Exiguus and associated with the Julian calendar. The year number is variously given as AD (for \"Anno Domini\") or CE (for \"Common Era\" or, indeed, \"Christian Era\").\n\nThe most important use of pre-modern calendars is keeping track of the liturgical year and the observation of religious feast days.\n\nWhile the Gregorian calendar is itself historically motivated in relation to the calculation of the Easter date, it is now in worldwide secular use as the \"de facto\" standard. Alongside the use of the Gregorian calendar for secular matters, there remain a number of calendars in use for religious purposes.\n\nEastern Christians, including the Orthodox Church, use the Julian calendar.\n\nThe Islamic calendar or Hijri calendar, is a lunar calendar consisting of 12 lunar months in a year of 354 or 355 days. It is used to date events in most of the Muslim countries (concurrently with the Gregorian calendar), and used by Muslims everywhere to determine the proper day on which to celebrate Islamic holy days and festivals. Its epoch is the Hijra (corresponding to AD 622)\nWith an annual drift of 11 or 12 days, the seasonal relation is repeated approximately each 33 Islamic years.\n\nVarious Hindu calendars remain in use in the Indian subcontinent, including the Nepali calendar, Bengali calendar, Malayalam calendar, Tamil calendar, Vikrama Samvat used in Northern India, and Shalivahana calendar in the Deccan states.\n\nThe Buddhist calendar and the traditional lunisolar calendars of Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Thailand are also based on an older version of the Hindu calendar.\n\nMost of the Hindu calendars are inherited from a system first enunciated in Vedanga Jyotisha of Lagadha, standardized in the \"Sūrya Siddhānta\" and subsequently reformed by astronomers such as Āryabhaṭa (AD 499), Varāhamihira (6th century) and Bhāskara II (12th century).\n\nThe Hebrew calendar is used by Jews worldwide for religious and cultural affairs, also influences civil matters in Israel (such as national holidays) and can be used there for business dealings (such as for the dating of cheques).\n\nBahá'ís worldwide use the Bahá'í calendar.\n\nThe Chinese, Hebrew, Hindu, and Julian calendars are widely used for religious and social purposes.\n\nThe Iranian (Persian) calendar is used in Iran and some parts of Afghanistan. The Ethiopian calendar or Ethiopic calendar is the principal calendar used in Ethiopia and Eritrea, with the Oromo calendar also in use in some areas. In neighboring Somalia, the Somali calendar co-exists alongside the Gregorian and Islamic calendars. In Thailand, where the Thai solar calendar is used, the months and days have adopted the western standard, although the years are still based on the traditional Buddhist calendar.\n\nA fiscal calendar generally means the accounting year of a government or a business. It is used for budgeting, keeping accounts and taxation. It is a set of 12 months that may start at any date in a year. The US government's fiscal year starts on 1 October and ends on 30 September. The government of India's fiscal year starts on 1 April and ends on 31 March. Small traditional businesses in India start the fiscal year on Diwali festival and end the day before the next year's Diwali festival.\n\nIn accounting (and particularly accounting software), a fiscal calendar (such as a 4/4/5 calendar) fixes each month at a specific number of weeks to facilitate comparisons from month to month and year to year. January always has exactly 4 weeks (Sunday through Saturday), February has 4 weeks, March has 5 weeks, etc. Note that this calendar will normally need to add a 53rd week to every 5th or 6th year, which might be added to December or might not be, depending on how the organization uses those dates. There exists an international standard way to do this (the ISO week). The ISO week starts on a Monday, and ends on a Sunday. Week 1 is always the week that contains 4 January in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nThe term \"calendar\" applies not only to a given scheme of timekeeping but also to a specific record or device displaying such a scheme, for example an appointment book in the form of a pocket calendar (or personal organizer), desktop calendar, a wall calendar, etc.\n\nIn a paper calendar one or two sheets can show a single day, a week, a month, or a year. If a sheet is for a single day, it easily shows the date and the weekday. If a sheet is for multiple days it shows a conversion table to convert from weekday to date and back. With a special pointing device, or by crossing out past days, it may indicate the current date and weekday. This is the most common usage of the word.\n\nIn the US Sunday is considered the first day of the week and so appears on the far left and Saturday the last day of the week appearing on the far right. In Britain the weekend may appear at the end of the week so the first day is Monday and the last day is Sunday. The US calendar display is also used in Britain.\n\nIt is common to display the Gregorian calendar in separate monthly grids of seven columns (from Monday to Sunday, or Sunday to Saturday depending on which day is considered to start the week – this varies according to country) and five to six rows (or rarely, four rows when the month of February contains 28 days beginning on the first day of the week), with the day of the month numbered in each cell, beginning with 1. The sixth row is sometimes eliminated by marking 23/30 and 24/31 together as necessary.\n\nWhen working with weeks rather than months, a continuous format is sometimes more convenient, where no blank cells are inserted to ensure that the first day of a new month begins on a fresh row.\n\nCalendaring software provides users with an electronic version of a calendar, and may additionally provide an appointment book, address book or contact list.\nCalendaring is a standard feature of many PDAs, EDAs, and smartphones. The software may be a local package designed for individual use (e.g., Lightning extension for Mozilla Thunderbird, Microsoft Outlook without Exchange Server, or Windows Calendar) or may be a networked package that allows for the sharing of information between users (e.g., Mozilla Sunbird, Windows Live Calendar, Google Calendar, or Microsoft Outlook with Exchange Server).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1237196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1237196", "title": "Cangjie", "text": "Cangjie\n\nCangjie () is a legendary figure in ancient China (c. 2650 BCE), claimed to be an official historian of the Yellow Emperor and the inventor of Chinese characters. Legend has it that he had four eyes, and that when he invented the characters, the deities and ghosts cried and the sky rained millet. He is considered a legendary rather than historical figure, or at least, not considered to be sole inventor of Chinese characters. Cangjie was the eponym for the (c. 220 BCE) \"Cangjiepian\" proto-dictionary, the Cangjie method of inputting characters into a computer, and a Martian rock visited by the Mars rover Spirit, and named by the rover team.\n\nThere are several versions of the legend. One tells that shortly after unifying China, the Yellow Emperor, being dissatisfied with his \"rope knot tying\" method (i.e., Quipu) of recording information, charged Cangjie with the task of creating characters for writing. Cangjie then settled down on the bank of a river, and devoted himself to the completion of the task at hand. Even after devoting much time and effort, however, he was unable to create even one character. One day, Cangjie suddenly saw a phoenix flying in the sky above, carrying an object in its beak. The object fell to the ground directly in front of Cangjie, and he saw it to be an impression of a hoof-print. Not being able to recognize which animal the print belonged to, he asked for the help of a local hunter passing by on the road. The hunter told him that this was, without a doubt, the hoof print of a Pixiu, being different from the hoof-print of any other beast that was alive. His conversation with the hunter greatly inspired Cangjie, leading him to believe that if he could capture in a drawing the special characteristics that set apart each and every thing on the earth, this would truly be the perfect kind of character for writing. From that day forward, Cangjie paid close attention to the characteristics of all things, including the sun, moon, stars, clouds, lakes, oceans, as well as all manner of bird and beast. He began to create characters according to the special characteristics he found, and before long, had compiled a long list of characters for writing. To the delight of the Yellow Emperor, Cangjie presented him with the complete set of characters. The emperor then called the premiers of each of the nine provinces together in order for Cangjie to teach them this new writing system. Monuments and temples were erected in Cangjie's honor on the bank of the river where he created these characters.\n\nAnother version of the legend tells that Cangjie was inspired by observing the network of veins on a turtle. This version is particularly interesting relative to archaeology because turtle shells are one of the most common media on which the earliest known Chinese inscriptions are found, including the Jiahu symbols.\n\nThere are tombs dedicated to Cangjie in the provinces of Shandong, Henan, Hebei, and Shaanxi.\n\n"}
{"id": "46777432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46777432", "title": "Constantine of Berat", "text": "Constantine of Berat\n\nConstantine of Berat, known among Albanians as Kostandin Jermonak Berati or shortly Kostë Berati, was an Albanian writer and translator of the 18th century.\n\nNot much is known about him, except that he was from Berat, today's southern part of central Albania, then Sanjak of Berat in Vilayet of Janina of the Ottoman Empire. His lifespan was highly probably between 1745 and 1825. Also, Constantine was quite likely an Orthodox monk. Elsie mentions that some experts doubt his existence, at least as a writer. He has copied a part of the \"lexicon\" of Theodore Kavalliotis, and is believed to have signed in 1779 a religious document (in Greek) together with Kavallioti and Teodor Haxhifilipi in Moscopole.\n\nConstantine of Berat is attributed as the author of a manuscript from 1764 to 1822, originally a 154 or 152-page work. It is preserved in the National Library in Tirana. This so-called Codex of Constantine of Berat or Codex of Berat (but not to be confused with Codex Beratinus I and II), is a simple paper manuscript and must not be envisaged as an illuminated parchment codex in the Western tradition. The Albanian part of the manuscript contains some religious prayers and Bible fragments, a hymn-poetry on Christ's suffering, and a Greek-Albanian dictionary. It was discovered by the Albanian researcher and Rilindas Ilo Mitkë Qafëzezi in 1938. In Qafëzezi's study \"Protopapa Theodhor Nastas Kavalioti, Teacher of the New Academy of Voskopojë, 1718-1719\" of 1951, he mentions that \"as Albanian language perspective, in general, the work of Kosta (Berati) is bigger and superior from the Albanian language of all his contemporary writers\". Albanian researcher Bedri Dedja considers Constantine's alphabet and writings as influential in the \"New Academy\" of Voskopojë, and is part of a wider cultural enlightenment of the Berat area. The codex seems to have been the work of at least two hands and was completed around 1798 at the earliest. It contains various and sundry texts in Greek and Albanian: biblical and Orthodox liturgical texts in Albanian written in the Greek alphabet, all of them no doubt translated from Greek or strongly influenced by Greek models. His alphabet contained 37 letters. Since the Greek script does not contain Albanian sounds ë, nj, sh, zh, etc, he used diacritic letters. I.e. the \"ë\" shows up as a rotated Latin script \"i\" or an \"alpha\" with a Iota subscript, \"nj\" as \"ni\", etc. Among the texts in the Codex of Berat is a forty-four-line Albanian poem, with the corresponding Greek text, called \"The Virgin Mary before the Cross\" (). It is written in so-called fifteen-syllable political verse. According to Elsie, the poem seems to be based on a Greek original by Akakios Diakrusis of Cephalonia, published in 1730. Also, the manuscript contains valuable information on Cosmas of Aetolia and his journeys through Albania.\n\nConstantine also compiled two Greek-Albanian glossaries comprising a total of 1,710 entries, most of Albanian words belong to the Berat dialect and are commonly used there. He also wrote a short passage containing another original Albanian alphabet which resembles the Glagolitic-Cyrillic script. Only two verses are written in this alphabet. The rest of his work consists of various religious notes; and a chronicle of events between 1764 and 1789 written in Greek. The Orthodox communities of central and southern Albania used later some of the religious texts in this manuscript later circulated for teaching purposes.\n\nConstantine's work and similar contemporary works of his time aimed at making the Orthodox religion as understandable as possible to the Orthodox Albanians who did not speak Greek, or/and facilitating them to learn the Greek language. Due to its importance, the manuscript is top-listed to be digitized as part of the Albanological Portal, a joint project of the Albanian and Kosovo National Libraries.\n\nA street in Berat is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "10847441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10847441", "title": "Dmitri Bondarenko", "text": "Dmitri Bondarenko\n\nDmitri Mikhailovich Bondarenko (; born 1968), is a Russian anthropologist, historian, and africanist. He has conducted field research in a number of African countries (particularly, Tanzania, Nigeria, Benin, Rwanda, Zambia, Uganda) and among Black people in Russia and the United States. He is Principal Research Fellow and Vice-Director for Research with the Institute for African Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Director of the International Center of Anthropology of the National Research University Higher School of Economics, and Full Professor in Ethnology with the Center of Social Anthropology of the Russian State University for the Humanities. He holds the titles of Professor in Ethnology from the Lomonosov Moscow State University, Professor of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Global Problems and International Relations, and Corresponding Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences in History.\n\nBondarenko was a visiting scholar with the Northwestern University (United States), Institut für Geschichte (Germany), and Maison des sciences de l'homme (France). He has delivered guest lectures at universities of Russia, the United States, Egypt, Tanzania,Slovenia, Angola, and Uganda. Bondarenko is a member of the Executive Committee of the Africanist Network of the \"European Association of Social Anthropologists\", for which he also served as the Committee Chairperson in 2006–2008. Dmitri Bondarenko is a co-founder and co-editor of \"Social Evolution & History\".\n\nBondarenko graduated with the M.A. degree in 1990 from the Moscow State University, Department of Ethnography, School of History. He completed his Ph.D. in 1993 at Russian Academy of Sciences. He also holds Doctor of Sciences degree (2000) from the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nSocial theory, anthropological and historical theory, political anthropology, pre-industrial societies, cultures and history of Africa, socio-cultural transformations and intercultural interaction in contemporary world (including ethnic, racial, and religious aspects, migration issues) with special focus on Africa and people of African descent worldwide\n\nBondarenko has introduced (together with Andrey Korotayev) and started elaborating the notion of \"homoarchy\" to be coupled with the one of \"heterarchy\", noting that the heterarchy (defined as \"the relation of elements to one another when they are unranked or when they possess the potential for being ranked in a number of different ways\") is not the opposite of any hierarchy all together, but is rather the opposite of \"homoarchy\", defined as \"the relation of elements to one another when they are rigidly ranked one way only, and thus possess no (or not more than very limited) potential for being unranked or ranked in another or a number of different ways at least without cardinal reshaping of the whole socio-political order\".\n\nBasing primarily on the precolonial Benin Kingdom evidence, Bondarenko has elaborated the conception of \"megacommunity\" as a specific type of the non-state supercomplex society, integration of a supercomplex (exceeding the complex chiefdom level) society on community (and hence non-state) basis being its main distinctive feature. He has contributed to the studies of the state origins and nature by dealing with such aspects of the problematics as the dynamics of kinship and territoriality as principles of socio-political organization, transformations in ideology, and others.\n\nIn publications on contemporary issues Bondarenko argues, in particular, that globalization should be viewed as a primarily cultural, not economic and political, phenomenon which is by no means a recently appeared one but which embraces essentially the whole human history, and which can turn out a \"successful historical project\" in the shape of a \"federation of local civilizations\" only.\n\nBondarenko has authored 7 monographs (including 3 in English) and over 500 other publications. Among his major publications in English are:\n\n"}
{"id": "48876879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48876879", "title": "Edward Elias Atwater", "text": "Edward Elias Atwater\n\nEdward Elias Atwater (May 28, 1816 – December 2, 1887) was an American minister and author.\n\nAtwater, only surviving child of Elihu and Julia (Thompson) Atwater, was born in New Haven, Conn., May 28, 1816.\n\nHe graduated from Yale College in 1836. After graduation he taught for a year in a family in Oldham County, Kentucky. In 1837 he entered the Yale Divinity School, and completed a three year course of study.\n\nOn November 24, 1841, he was ordained pastor of the Congregational Church in Ravenna, Ohio, which office he resigned on July 1, 1849. He then spent a year in foreign travel, and on February 3, 1852, was installed over the Congregational Church in Salmon Falls, in the township of Rollinsford, N. H. He was dismissed from this charge, November 3, 1857, when he returned to New Haven. A few months later he undertook a missionary enterprise in the eastern part of the city, which resulted after years of patient labor in the organization of a church (the Davenport Church) of which he was installed pastor on April 22, 1863.\n\nHe withdrew from this service on June 14, 1870, but continued to reside in New Haven, partly engaged in literary labors, until his death. In 1887 he went to Florida for the winter, and died there, in the town of Hawthorn, very suddenly, from a stroke of apoplexy, on the 2nd of December, in his 72nd year.\n\nHe married, August 9, 1844, Rebecca H., daughter of Deacon David Dana, of Pomfret, Vermont, who survived him. Their only child died in infancy.\n\nHe published in 1873 \"A genealogical register of the descendants in the male line of David Atwater, one of the original planters of New Haven, Conn., to the sixth generation\". (64 pp 8vo), also in 1875 a \"History and Significance of the Sacred Tabernacle of the Hebrews\" (448 pp 8vo), and in 1881 a \"History of the Colony of New Haven\" (611 pp 8vo) The last named elaborate work determined the more serious undertaking which occupied three or four years of his later life,—the editing of a \"History of the City of New Haven\", which was published in 1887 (702 pp. 8vo), and to which he was himself the chief contributor.\n\n"}
{"id": "7056868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7056868", "title": "Foundations of Christianity", "text": "Foundations of Christianity\n\nFoundations of Christianity (German: Der Ursprung des Christentums) is a 1908 book by Marxist theoretician Karl Kautsky. In it, he attempts to explain the origins of Christianity, and claims that it can best be explained by historical materialism rather than divinity.\n\nThe first edition in English, published in 1925 by George Allen and Unwin, followed the eleventh German version. The German text was re-translated into English by Henry F. Mins, and published by Russell and Russell in 1953. In 1972, a translation by Jacob W. Hartmann was published by Monthly Review Press. The edition current in print was published by Resistance in 2007 and contains a preface by Michael Lowy.\n\nIn his foreword, Kautsky expressed his hope that the book would be 'a powerful weapon in the struggles of the present, in order to hasten the attainment of a better future'. He began his analysis by looking for evidence that 'the person of Jesus' existed at all, using pagan and Christian sources. The next dozen chapters are then taken up with a materialist description of the ancient Roman society from which early Christianity sprang. Kautsky then went on to describe the history of the Jewish people, up to the point where Christianity began.\n\nHaving set the scene, Kautsky described the beginnings of Christianity. The next five sections are called 'The Primitive Christian Community', 'The Christian Idea of the Messiah', 'Jewish Christians and Gentile Christians', 'The History of Christ’s Passion' and 'The Development of the Christian Community'.\n\nKautsky contended that Christianity was born out of a group of Jewish proletarians in a decaying Roman empire, who sought to defeat the Romans through a violent insurrection.\n\n"}
{"id": "52682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52682", "title": "Greek literature", "text": "Greek literature\n\nGreek literature dates from ancient Greek literature, beginning in 800 BC, to the modern Greek literature of today. \n\nAncient Greek literature was written in an Ancient Greek dialect. This literature ranges from the oldest surviving written works until works from approximately the fifth century AD. This time period is divided into the Preclassical, Classical, Hellenistic, and Roman periods. Preclassical Greek literature primarily revolved around myths and include the works of Homer; the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\". The Classical period saw the dawn of drama and history. Three philosophers are especially notable: Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. During the Roman era, significant contributions were made in a variety of subjects, including history, philosophy, and the sciences.\n\nByzantine literature, the literature of the Byzantine Empire, was written in Atticizing, Medieval and early Modern Greek. Chronicles, distinct from historics, arose in this period. Encyclopedias also flourished in this period.\n\nModern Greek literature is written in common Modern Greek. The Cretan Renaissance poem \"Erotokritos\" is one of the most significant works from this time period. Adamantios Korais and Rigas Feraios are two of the most notable figures.\n\nAncient Greek literature refers to literature written in Ancient Greek dialects. These works range from the oldest surviving written works in the Greek language until works from the fifth century AD. The Greek language arose from the proto-Indo-European language; roughly two-thirds of its words can be derived from various reconstructions of the tongue. A number of alphabets and syllabaries had been used to render Greek, but surviving Greek literature was written in a Phoenician-derived alphabet that arose primarily in Greek Ionia and was fully adopted by Athens by the fifth century BC.\n\nThe Greeks created poetry before making use of writing for literary purposes. Poems created in the Preclassical period were meant to be sung or recited (writing was little known before the 7th century BC). Most poems focused on myths, legends that were part folktale and part religion. Tragedies and comedies emerged around 600 BC.\n\nAt the beginning of Greek literature stand the works of Homer; the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\". Though dates of composition vary, these works were fixed around 800 BC or after. Another significant figure was the poet Hesiod. His two surviving works are \"Works and Days\" and \"Theogony\".\n\nDuring the classical period, many of the genres of western literature became more prominent. Lyrical poetry, odes, pastorals, elegies, epigrams; dramatic presentations of comedy and tragedy; histories, rhetorical treatises, philosophical dialectics, and philosophical treatises all arose in this period.\n\nThe two major lyrical poets were Sappho and Pindar. Of the hundreds of tragedies written and performed during this time period, only a limited number of plays survived. These plays are authored by Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides.\n\nThe comedy arose from a ritual in honor of Dionysus. These plays were full of obscenity, abuse, and insult. The surviving plays by Aristophanes are a treasure trove of comic presentation.\n\nTwo influential historians of this age are Herodotus and Thucydides. A third historian, Xenophon, wrote \"Hellenica,\" which is considered an extension of Thucydides's work.\n\nThe greatest prose achievement of the 4th century BC was in philosophy. Greek philosophy flourished during the classical period. Of the philosophers, Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle are the most famous.\n\nBy 338 BC many of the key Greek cities had been conquered by Philip II of Macedon. Philip II's son Alexander extended his father's conquests greatly.\n\nThe Hellenistic age is defined as the time between the death of Alexander the Great and the rise of Roman domination. After the 3rd century BC, the Greek colony of Alexandria in northern Egypt became the center of Greek culture.\n\nGreek poetry flourished with significant contributions from Theocritus, Callimachus, and Apollonius of Rhodes. Theocritus, who lived from about 310 to 250 BC, was the creator of pastoral poetry, a type that the Roman Virgil mastered in his Eclogues.\n\nDrama was represented by the New Comedy, of which Menander was the principal exponent.\n\nOne of the most valuable contributions of the Hellenistic period was the translation of the Old Testament into Greek. This work was done at Alexandria and completed by the end of the 2nd century BC.\n\nRoman literature was written in Latin and contributed significant works to the subjects of poetry, comedy, history, and tragedy. A large proportion of literature from this time period were histories.\n\nSignificant historians of the period were Timaeus, Polybius, Diodorus Siculus, Dionysius of Halicarnassus, Appian of Alexandria, Arrian, and Plutarch. The period of time they cover extended from late in the 4th century BC to the 2nd century AD.\n\nEratosthenes of Alexandria wrote on astronomy and geography, but his work is known mainly from later summaries. The physician Galen pioneered developments in various scientific disciplines including anatomy, physiology, pathology, pharmacology, and neurology. This is also the period in which most of the Ancient Greek novels were written.\n\nThe New Testament, written by various authors in varying qualities of Koine Greek, hails from this period. The Gospels and the Epistles of Saint Paul were written in this time period as well.\n\nByzantine literature refers to literature of the Byzantine Empire written in Atticizing, Medieval and early Modern Greek.\n\nByzantine literature combined Greek and Christian civilization on the common foundation of the Roman political system. This type of literature was set in the intellectual and ethnographic atmosphere of the Near East. Byzantine literature possesses four primary cultural elements: Greek, Christian, Roman, and Oriental.\n\nAside from personal correspondence, literature of this period was primarily written in the Atticizing style. Some early literature of this period was written in Latin; some of the works from the Latin Empire were written in French.\n\nChronicles, distinct from historic, arose in this period. Encyclopedias also flourished in this period.\n\nModern Greek literature is written in common Modern Greek. During this period, the modern vernacular form of the Greek language became more commonplace in writing.\n\nThis period saw the revival of Greek and Roman studies and the development of Renaissance humanism and science.\n\nThe Cretan Renaissance poem \"Erotokritos\" is a prominent work of this time period. It is a verse romance written around 1600 by Vitsentzos Kornaros (1553–1613).\n\nModern Greek literature is significantly influenced by the Diafotismos, a movement that translated the ideas of the European Enlightenment into the Greek world. Adamantios Korais and Rigas Feraios are two prominent figures of this movement.\n\nToday, Modern Greek Literature participates in the global literary community. The Greek authors George Seferis and Odysseas Elytis have been awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5569401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569401", "title": "Herbert Hunger", "text": "Herbert Hunger\n\nHerbert Hunger (9 December 1914 – 9 July 2000) was an Austrian Byzantinist.\n\nHunger was born and died in Vienna. From 1973 to 1982 he served two consecutive terms as president of the Austrian Academy of Sciences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13727840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13727840", "title": "Historical sociology", "text": "Historical sociology\n\nHistorical sociology is a branch of sociology focusing on how societies develop through history. It looks at how social structures that many regard as natural are in fact shaped by complex social processes. The structure in turn shapes institutions and organizations, which affect the society - resulting in phenomena ranging from gender bias and income inequality to war.\n\nContemporary historical sociology is primarily concerned with how the state has developed since the Middle Ages, analysing relations between states, classes, economic and political systems.\n\nAs time has passed, history and sociology have developed into two different specific academic disciplines. Historical data was used and is used today in mainly these three ways. The first one is: Examining a theory through a Parallel investigation. To correspond with the natural-science conceptions of laws, and to look at, or apply various historical material where you gather your resources in order to prove the theory that is applied. Or on the other hand sociologists for the parallel investigation theory could apply the theory to certain cases of investigation but in a different modalities of a more widely used process. The second theory that sociologists mainly use: applying and contrasting certain events or policies. Analysed by their specific, or what makes them in unique quality of a composition, certain events used by the sociologist for comparative data can be contrasted and compared. For interpretive sociologists it is very common for them to use the 'Verstehen' tradition. And lastly, the third way sociologists typically relate is by taking a look at the causalities from a macro point of view. This is Mill's method: \" a) principle of difference: a case with effect and cause present is contrasted with a case with effect and cause absent; and b) principle of agreement: cases with same effects are compared in terms of their (ideally identical) causes. There is an important debate on the usefulness of Mill's method for sociological research, which relates to the fact that historical research is often based on only few cases and that many sociological theories are probabilistic, not deterministic. Today, historical sociology is measured by a conjunction of questions that are rich in detail.\n\nPath dependence to some sociologists is the theory that events that happened in past, have some or a lot of influence on events that happen in the future. However, sociologist James Mahoney has a different definition of path dependence. His theory suggests that \"process, sequence, and temporality\" have a valid reason for affecting path dependence and the meaning of past historical events. There are three path-dependent analyses with an explanation to how each theory works. \"1) the study of causal processes that are especially sensitive, in a sequence, to early historical events, which are more important than later events; 2) these events are contingent occurrences that cannot be explained by prior events or initial conditions; and 3) that once contingent events take place, the path dependent sequence becomes a deterministic pattern.\"\n\nJames Mahoney revisited the debate over general theory in historical sociology. By bridging the gaps of different assumptions, causal agents and causal mechanisms are connected to the empirical analysis, and this is seen as the general theory.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44656253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44656253", "title": "History of the Cherokee language", "text": "History of the Cherokee language\n\nThis article is a detailed History of the Cherokee Language, the Native American Indian Iroquoian language spoken by the Cherokee people.\n\nThe Cherokee call their language \"Tsalagi\" () or \"Tslagi\". They refer to themselves as \"Aniyunwiya\" (), which means \"Principal People\". The Iroquois based in New York have historically called the Cherokee \"Oyata'ge'ronoñ\", which means \"inhabitants of the cave country\".\n\nMany theories – though none proven – abound about the origin of the name \"Cherokee\". It may have originally been derived from the Choctaw word \"Cha-la-kee\", which means \"those who live in the mountains\", or Choctaw \"Chi-luk-ik-bi,\" meaning \"those who live in the cave country\". The earliest Spanish rendering of Cherokee, from 1755, is \"Tchalaquei\".\nAnother theory is that \"Cherokee\" derives from a Lower Creek word, \"Cvlakke\" (\"chuh-log-gee\"),\nmeaning someone who speaks another language. In the Lower dialect of , which was traditionally spoken in what is now Georgia and South Carolina, the Cherokee called their language \"jaragi,\" as the Eastern or lower dialect had a rolling \"r\" sound in place of the \"l\" sound used in the other dialects. This pronunciation may have served as a basis for the current English language name for the people.\n\nThe North American origins and eventual English language form of \"Cherokee\" were researched by James Mooney in the nineteenth century. In his \"Myths of the Cherokee\" (1888) he writes:\n\nThere are two prevailing views about Cherokee origins, and most of what is known about Cherokee history can be studied through their traditional language. One theory is that the Cherokee, an Iroquoian-speaking people, are relative latecomers to Southern Appalachia, who may have migrated in late prehistoric times from northern areas, the traditional territory of the later \"Haudenosaunee\" five nations and other Iroquoian-speaking peoples. Researchers in the 19th century recorded conversations with elders who recounted an oral tradition of the Cherokee people's migrating south from the Great Lakes region in ancient times. The other theory, which is disputed by academic specialists, is that the Cherokee had been in the Southeast for thousands of years. Pre-contact Cherokee are considered to be part of the later Pisgah Phase of Southern Appalachia, which lasted from circa 1000 to 1500.\n\nIn 1540, The Cherokee lay claim to 40,000 square miles in the southeastern part of what later became the United States. This area included parts of what is now the states of Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee.\n\nMuch of what is known about pre-19th century Cherokee culture and society comes from the papers of American writer John Howard Payne. The Payne papers describe the account by Cherokee elders of a traditional societal structure in which a \"white\" organization of elders represented the seven clans. According to Payne, this group, which was hereditary and described as priestly, was responsible for religious activities such as healing, purification, and prayer. A second group of younger men, the \"red\" organization, was responsible for warfare. Warfare was considered a polluting activity, which required the purification of the priestly class before participants could reintegrate into normal village life. This hierarchy had disappeared long before the 18th century. The reasons for the change have been debated, with the origin of the decline often located with a revolt by the Cherokee against the abuses of the priestly class known as the Ani-kutani( \"Aní-\" is a prefix referring to a group of individuals, while the meaning of \"kutáni\" is unknown).\n\nEthnographer James Mooney, who studied the Cherokee in the late 1880s, first traced the decline of the former hierarchy to this revolt. By the time of Mooney, the structure of Cherokee religious practitioners was more informal, based more on individual knowledge and ability than upon heredity.\n\nAnother major source of early cultural history comes from materials written in the 19th century by the \"didanvwisgi\" (Cherokee: ᏗᏓᏅᏫᏍᎩ), Cherokee medicine men, after Sequoyah's creation of the Cherokee syllabary in the 1820s. Initially only the didanvwisgi used these materials, which were considered extremely powerful. Later, the writings were widely adopted by the Cherokee people.\n\nUnlike most other Indians in the American southeast at the start of the historic era, the Cherokee spoke an Iroquoian language. Since the Great Lakes region was the core of Iroquoian language speakers, scholars have theorized that the Cherokee migrated south from that region. However, some argue that the Iroquois migrated north from the southeast, with the Tuscarora breaking off from that group during the migration. Linguistic analysis shows a relatively large difference between Cherokee and the northern Iroquoian languages, suggesting a split in the distant past. Glottochronology studies suggest the split occurred between about 1,500 and 1,800 B.C. The ancient settlement of Kituwa on the Tuckasegee River, formerly next to and now part of Qualla Boundary (the reservation of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians), is often cited as the original Cherokee settlement in the Southeast.\n\nIn 1657, there was a disturbance in Virginia Colony as the \"Rechahecrians\" or \"Rickahockans\", as well as the Siouan \"Manahoac\" and \"Nahyssan\", broke through the frontier and settled near the Falls of the James, near present-day Richmond, Virginia. The following year, a combined force of English and Pamunkey drove the newcomers away. The identity of the \"Rechahecrians\" has been much debated. Historians noted the name closely resembled that recorded for the \"Eriechronon\" or \"Erielhonan\", commonly known as the Erie tribe. The Iroquoian people had been driven away from the southern shore of Lake Erie by the powerful Iroquois Five Nations in 1654. The anthropologist Martin Smith theorized some remnants of the tribe migrated to Virginia after the wars (1986:131–32). Few historians suggest this tribe was Cherokee.\n\nVirginian traders developed a small-scale trading system with the Cherokee before the end of the 17th century; the earliest recorded Virginia trader to live among the Cherokee was Cornelius Dougherty or Dority, in 1690. The Cherokee sold the traders Indian slaves for use as laborers in Virginia and further north.\n\nOver the course of the 18th century, the number of Cherokee speakers declined sharply. In the 1730s the population halved due to commercial trade with England that resulted in the spread of diseases such as smallpox to which the indigenous peoples had no immunity. In the 1780s the Cherokee people faced genocidal wars with British settlers, significantly the Anglo-Cherokee War, and conflicts with other tribes including the Muscogee.\n\nBefore the development of the Cherokee syllabary in the 1820s, Cherokee was a spoken language only. The Cherokee syllabary is a syllabary invented by Sequoyah in the late 1810s and early 1820s to write the Cherokee language. His creation of the syllabary is particularly noteworthy in that he could not previously read any script. He first experimented with logograms, but his system later developed into a syllabary. In his system, each symbol represents a syllable rather than a single phoneme; the 85 (originally 86) characters in the Cherokee syllabary provide a suitable method to write Cherokee. Some symbols do resemble the Latin, Greek and even the Cyrillic scripts' letters, but the sounds are completely different (for example, the sound /a/ is written with a letter that resembles Latin D).\n\nAround 1809, Sequoyah began work to create a system of writing for the Cherokee language. At first he sought to create a character for each word in the language. He spent a year on this effort, leaving his fields unplanted, so that his friends and neighbors thought he had lost his mind. His wife is said to have burned his initial work, believing it to be witchcraft. He finally realized that this approach was impractical because it would require too many pictures to be remembered. He then tried making a symbol for every idea, but this also caused too many problems to be practical.\n\nSequoyah did not succeed until he gave up trying to represent entire words and developed a symbol for each syllable in the language. After approximately a month, he had a system of 86 characters, some of which were Latin letters he obtained from a spelling book. \"In their present form, many of the syllabary characters resemble Roman, Cyrillic or Greek letters or Arabic numerals,\" says Janine Scancarelli, a scholar of Cherokee writing, \"but there is no apparent relationship between their sounds in other languages and in Cherokee.\"\n\nUnable to find adults willing to learn the syllabary, he taught it to his daughter, \"Ayokeh\" (also spelled Ayoka). Langguth says she was only six years old at the time. He traveled to the Indian Reserves in the Arkansaw Territory where some Cherokee had settled. When he tried to convince the local leaders of the syllabary's usefulness, they doubted him, believing that the symbols were merely \"ad hoc\" reminders. Sequoyah asked each to say a word, which he wrote down, and then called his daughter in to read the words back. This demonstration convinced the leaders to let him teach the syllabary to a few more people. This took several months, during which it was rumored that he might be using the students for sorcery. After completing the lessons, Sequoyah wrote a dictated letter to each student, and read a dictated response. This test convinced the western Cherokee that he had created a practical writing system.\n\nWhen Sequoyah returned east, he brought a sealed envelope containing a written speech from one of the Arkansas Cherokee leaders. By reading this speech, he convinced the eastern Cherokee also to learn the system, after which it spread rapidly. In 1825 the Cherokee Nation officially adopted the writing system. From 1828 to 1834, American missionaries assisted the Cherokee in using Sequoyah's syllabary to develop type characters and print the \"Cherokee Phoenix\", the first newspaper of the Cherokee Nation, with text in both Cherokee and English.\n\nIn 1826, the Cherokee National Council commissioned George Lowrey and David Brown to translate and print eight copies of the laws of the Cherokee Nation in the new Cherokee language using Sequoyah's system.\n\nOnce Albert Gallatin saw a copy of Sequoyah's syllabary, he found the syllabary superior to the English alphabet. Even though the Cherokee student must learn 85 characters instead of 26, he can read immediately. The student could accomplish in a few weeks what students of English writing could learn in two years.\n\nIn 1824, the General Council of the Eastern Cherokee awarded Sequoyah a large silver medal in honor of the syllabary. According to Davis, one side of the medal bore his image surrounded by the inscription in English, \"Presented to George Gist by the General Council of the Cherokee for his ingenuity in the invention of the Cherokee Alphabet.\" The reverse side showed two long-stemmed pipes and the same inscription written in Cherokee. Supposedly, Sequoyah wore the medal throughout the rest of his life and it was buried with him.\n\nBy 1825, the Bible and numerous religious hymns and pamphlets, educational materials, legal documents and books were translated into the Cherokee language. Thousands of Cherokee became literate and the literacy rate for Cherokee in the syllabary was higher than that of whites in the English alphabet.\n\nThough use of the Cherokee syllabary declined after many of the Cherokee were relocated to Indian Territory, present day Oklahoma, it has survived in private correspondence, renderings of the Bible, and descriptions of Indian medicine and now can be found in books and on the internet among other places.\n\nIn 1827, the Cherokee National Council appropriated funds to print a newspaper.\n\nThe \"Cherokee Phoenix\" (ᏣᎳᎩ ᏧᎴᎯᏌᏅᎯ, \"Tsalagi Tsulehisanvhi\") was the first newspaper published by Native Americans in the United States and the first published in a Native American language. The first issue was published in English and Cherokee on February 21, 1828, in New Echota, capital of the Cherokee Nation (present-day Georgia). The paper continued until 1834. The \"Cherokee Phoenix\" was revived in the 20th century, and today it publishes on the Web.\n\nThe \"Cherokee Phoenix\" has published intermittently since its beginning in New Echota. It is now published by the Cherokee Nation as a monthly broadsheet in Tahlequah, Oklahoma. The newspaper has modernized. It publishes on the Web and is available on the iPhone.\n\nA digitized, searchable version of the paper is available through the University of Georgia Libraries and the Digital Library of Georgia. Transcriptions of the English-language portions of the 19th-century newspaper can be found at Western Carolina University's Hunter Library's Web site.\n\nArtists Jeff Marley and Frank Brannon completed a collaborative project on October 19, 2013, in which they printed using Cherokee syllabary type in the print shop at New Echota. This was the first time syllabary printing type has been used at New Echota since 1835.\n\nIn 1824 the first portion of the Bible was translated into the Cherokee language: John 3, translated by a native Cherokee, At-see (also known as John Arch). It was circulated in manuscript and received with enthusiasm, being widely recopied. He completed the Gospel of John by 1824 The complete New Testament was translated in September 1825 by David Brown, also a native Cherokee; this was also circulated in manuscript form, as a type for the Cherokee syllabary had not yet been created. Both Archer and Brown translated the full New Testament into Cherokee.\n\nThe first actual printing of a Bible portion in Cherokee appeared in the Missionary Herald of December 1827, and consisted of the first verse of Genesis, translated by Samuel Worcester. In 1828, David Brown, together with a man named George Lowrey, translated Matthew. This was printed in the Cherokee Phoenix from April 3, 1828 to July 29, 1829. It is uncertain if this translation was ever published in book form.\n\nSamuel Worcester, and Elias Boudinot, editor of the Cherokee Phoenix, published a revised translation of Matthew in 1829. This was published by the Cherokee National Press, New Echota. In the second edition, published in 1832, there is a statement that this translation had been \"compared with the translation of George Lowrey and David Brown.\" A third edition was printed by the Park Hill Mission Press in 1840.\n\nWorcester and Boudinot continued with translation, publishing Acts in 1833 and John in 1838. Worcester, together with Stephen Foreman, published John 1–3 in 1840, 1 and 2 Timothy in 1844, James in 1847, 1 and 2 Peter in 1848, Luke in 1850, Exodus in 1853, Genesis in 1856, Mark in 1857, and Romans through Ephesians in 1858. With the assistance of Charles C. Torrey, they published Philippians through 2 Thessalonians, Titus through Hebrews and Jude through Revelation in 1859. Besides the first three books translated together with Boudinot, Matthew (1829), Acts (1833), and John (1838), which were published in New Echota, Georgia, all the rest of Worcester's texts were published by the Park Hill Mission Press. In the meantime, Evan and John B. Jones had published Mark 1 and 2 Thessalonians, Titus, Jude, and Philemon in 1847, and Galatians through Colossians, 1 and 2 Peter in 1848 and Romans, 1 and 2 Corinthians, Hebrews and Revelation in 1849. Their work was published by the Cherokee Baptist Mission. The full New Testament was published by the American Bible Society in 1860.\n\nWith the help of Stephen Foreman, Worcester also translated portions of Psalms, Proverbs, and Isaiah.\n\nJonah, translated by Amory N. Chamberlain, was published in Tahlequah in 1888. Joshua was at an advanced stage of translation, and was perhaps even completed but was never published.\n\nA \"corrected version\" of old Testament portions, prepared by M.A. Pearson, was published in 1953 by the American Bible Society.\n\nRevisions of John (1948) and the New Testament (1951) were published in Westville, Oklahoma.\n\nIn 1965 the Perkins School of Theology published a translation of Haggai by Jack and Anna Kilpatrick.\n\nCherokee removal, part of the Trail of Tears, refers to the forced relocation between 1836 and 1839 of the Cherokee Nation from their lands in Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Alabama to the Indian Territory (present day Oklahoma) in the Central United States, which resulted in the death of an estimated 4000 Cherokee.\n\nIn the Cherokee language, the event is called \"Nu na da ul tsun yi\" (the place where they cried); another term is \"Tlo va sa\" (our removal). However, this phrase was not used by Cherokee at the time, and seems to be of Choctaw origin. The Cherokee were not the only American Indians to emigrate as a result of the Indian Removal efforts. American Indians were not only removed from the American South but also from the North, Midwest, Southwest, and Plains regions. The Choctaws, Chickasaws, and Creek Indians (Muskogee) emigrated reluctantly. The Seminoles in Florida resisted removal by guerrilla warfare with the United States Army for decades (1817–1850). Ultimately, some Seminoles remained in their Florida home country, while others were transported to Indian Territory in shackles.\n\nThe first known use of Native Americans in the American military to transmit messages under fire was a group of Cherokee troops utilized by the American 30th Infantry Division serving alongside the British during the Second Battle of the Somme. According to the Division Signal Officer, this took place in September 1918. Their unit was under British command at the time. The Cherokee language was also used by code talkers in the 36th Division of the 142nd Infantry Regiment during World War I, in which Cherokee troops were discovered by the U.S. Army by happenstance to speak the Cherokee language which their enemies could not understand. Native American code talkers during World War I primarily used type 2 code talking. The Cherokee language was later utilized to transmit secret messages in the 32nd Infantry Division of the U.S. Army in Normandy, Europe during World War II.\n\nOver the course of the 19th century and into the 20th century, American Indian boarding schools were set up by the United States government to assimilate Native Americans into Western society. Such schools discouraged and even prohibited use of Native American languages and taught students that a tribal identity was inferior. Instead, students were forced to speak and think in English. If they were caught \"speaking Indian\" they were punished, sometimes severely beaten with a leather belt and sometimes soap was put into their mouths, in an attempt to \"wash the language out.\" A Cherokee Boarding School, founded in 1880, likewise maintained an English-only policy specifically designed to eradicate the Cherokee language. The purpose of the boarding schools was to forcibly acculturate Cherokee to mainstream white society. Indigenous children were forcibly taken from their homes in an effort to \"kill the Indian and save the man.\" At these schools Indian children were given \"white\" names, wardrobes, and haircuts, and forced to speak only English. This school enacted English-only rules until 1933, having devastating effects on Cherokee fluency. U.S. policies of Indian assimilation lasted into the 1950s.\n\nSince 1930, the number of speakers of the Cherokee language has increased in spite of attempts by the United States government to assimilate Native Americans.\n\nTechnology has allowed use of Cherokee to expand. For years, many people wrote transliterated Cherokee on the internet or used poorly compatible fonts to type out the syllabary. However, since the fairly recent addition of the Cherokee syllables to Unicode, the Cherokee language is experiencing a renaissance in its use on the Internet. The entire New Testament is online in the Cherokee Syllabary, and there is a Cherokee language Wikipedia featuring over 400 articles. Most Linux distributions support Cherokee input and display in any font containing the characters in Unicode environments. Windows 8, the first Windows release in Cherokee, contains \"nearly 180,000 words and phrases\" in Cherokee, and is the first Windows release in a Native American language.\n\nBeginning in 2001, the Cherokee Bible Project began posting the New Testament and portions of Old Testament Books on the internet. The New Testament is completely present online as are several Old Testament books including Genesis, Haggai, and Jonah. Cherokee Bible Project\n\nSince 2003, all Apple computers come with a Cherokee font installed. Cherokee Nation members Joseph L. Erb, Roy Boney, Jr., and Thomas Jeff Edwards worked with Apple to bring official Cherokee language support to the iPhone and iPod Touch in iOS 4.1 (released September 8, 2010) and for the iPad with iOS 4.2.1, which was released on November 22, 2010. A number of Cherokee language apps are available for iPhone, iPad, and other iOS devices.\n\nOn March 25, 2011, Google announced the option to perform searches in Cherokee. As of November 2012, Gmail is supported in Cherokee.\n\nA video game for learning the Cherokee language, \"Talking Games\", was released in March 2013.\n\nThe Cherokee language has also made some appearances in popular culture which have helped it further develop. The theme song \"I Will Find You\" from the 1992 film \"The Last of the Mohicans\" by the band Clannad features Máire Brennan singing in Cherokee as well as Mohican. Cherokee rapper Litefoot incorporates Cherokee into songs, as do Rita Coolidge's band Walela and the intertribal drum group, Feather River Singers.\n\nResources helping to expand and develop Cherokee include books. Among books published in the Cherokee language are the following:\n\nThe Cherokee Nation now has a radio show called \"Cherokee Voices, Cherokee Sounds\" that plays songs in the Cherokee language, interviews speakers of the Cherokee language, and releases news and podcasts in both Cherokee and English. The show is hosted by Dennis Sixkiller and has been in operation since 2004. \"Cherokee Voices, Cherokee Sounds\" currently airs on the radio in the Tahlequah area on Lakes Country 102.1 FM on Sundays from 8 a.m. until 9 a.m. and on Classic Country KTLQ 1350 AM from 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. and Wednesdays from 5 p.m. until 6 p.m. In the Claremore area, the show airs on the Rogers State University radio station, KRSC – 91.3 FM, Saturdays from 8 a.m. to 9 a.m., and Sundays from 12 p.m. until 1 p.m. The show also airs on Siloam Springs, AR, station KUOA – 1290 AM, on Sundays from 9 a.m. until 10 a.m.\n\nIn 2005 the Eastern Band of the Cherokee Nation instituted a 10-year language preservation plan that involved growing new fluent speakers of the Cherokee language, from childhood on up, through school immersion programs as well as collaborative community efforts to continue to use the language at home. This plan was part of an ambitious goal that in 50 years, 80% or more of the Cherokee people will be fluent in the language. The Cherokee Preservation Foundation has invested $3 million into opening schools, training teachers, and developing curricula for language education, as well as initiating community gatherings where the language can be actively used. Formed in 2006, the Kituwah Preservation & Education Program (KPEP) on the Qualla Boundary focuses on language immersion programs for children from birth to fifth grade, developing cultural resources for the general public and community language programs to foster the Cherokee language among adults.\nThere is also a Cherokee language immersion school in Tahlequah, Oklahoma that educates students from pre-school through eighth grade.\n\nCherokee Bible Project Cherokee Bible Project\n"}
{"id": "24618362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24618362", "title": "History of the Jews in Speyer", "text": "History of the Jews in Speyer\n\nThe history of the Jews in Speyer reaches back over 1,000 years. In the Middle Ages, the city of Speyer (formerly Spira), Germany, was home to one of the most significant Jewish communities in the Holy Roman Empire. Its significance is attested to by the frequency of the Ashkenazi Jewish surname Shapiro/Shapira and its variants Szpira/Spiro/Speyer. After many ups and downs throughout history, the community was totally wiped out in 1940 during the Holocaust. With the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1989 Jews again settled in Speyer and a first assembly took place in 1996.\n\nThe earliest reference to Jewish settlement along the Rhine dates from the year 321 in Cologne, and it is assumed that Jews also lived in Speyer in Late Antiquity. With the collapse of state and church administration in the Migration Period and the decline of the urban Roman lifestyle, it is also assumed that Jewish communities dispersed. Jews resettled in the Rhine area coming from southern France where Roman life had more or less remained intact. Traveling Jewish merchants certainly would have had dependencies in Rhenish towns, even though the first branches are only mentioned in 906 for Mainz, and 960 for Worms. With the construction of Speyer Cathedral, beginning in 1032, Speyer emerged as one of the major towns along the Rhine. The first records of Jews in Speyer appear in the 1070s. They were members of the renowned Kalonymos family of Mainz, which had migrated a century before from Italy. Other Jews from Mainz had possibly also settled in Speyer.\n\nThe actual history of the Jews in Speyer started in 1084, when Jews fleeing from pogroms in Mainz and Worms took refuge with their relatives in Speyer. They possibly came at the instigation of bishop Rüdiger Huzmann (1073–1090), who invited a larger number of Jews to live in his town with the expressed approval of emperor Henry IV. In his privilege or charter (\"Freiheitsbrief\") for the Jews, the bishop wrote:\n\nIn the name of the holy and undivided trinity, I, Rüdiger, with the surname of Huozmann, bishop of Speyer, in my endeavor to turn the village of Speyer into a city, believed to multiply its image a thousand times by also inviting Jews. I had them settle outside the quarters of the other inhabitants and as not to have them disquieted by the insolence of the lowly folk I had them surrounded by a wall. Now the place of their habitation which I acquired justly (for in the first place I obtained the hill partly with money and partly by exchange, while I received the valley by way of gift from some heirs) that place, I say, I transferred to them on condition that they pay annually 3 ½ pounds in silver for the use of the brethren. I have granted also to them within the district where they dwell, and from that district outside the town as far as the harbour, and within the harbour itself, full power to change gold and silver, and to buy and sell what they please. And I have also given them license to do this throughout the state. Besides this I have given them land of the church for a cemetery with rights of inheritance. This also I have added that if any Jew should at any time stay with them he shall pay no thelony. Then also just as the judge of the city hears cases between citizens, so the chief rabbi shall hear cases which arise between the Jews or against them. But if by chance he is unable to decide any of them they shall go to the bishop or his chamberlain. They shall maintain watches, guards, and fortifications about their district, the guards in common with our vassals. They may lawfully employ nurses and servants from among our people. Slaughtered meat which they may not eat according to their law they may lawfully sell to Christians, and Christians may lawfully buy it. Finally, to round out these concessions, I have granted that they may enjoy the same privileges as the Jews in any other city of Germany. Lest any of my successors diminish this gift and concession, or constrain them to pay greater taxes, alleging that they have usurped these privileges, and have no episcopal warrant for them, I have left this charter as a suitable testimony of the said grant. And that this may never be forgotten, I have signed it, and confirmed it with my seal as may be seen below. Given on September 15, 1084, etc.\n\nThe settlement mentioned in this privilege is the former suburb of Altspeyer in the area to the east of today's railway station. The \"valley\" refers either to a moat-like grove to the north of the Weidenberg (today Hirschgraben) or to the low areas around the stream of the Speyerbach. This walled settlement for Jews was well to the north outside the walls of the city proper and it is the first documented ghetto. The Jewish community had to mend and guard the walls of Altspeyer themselves.\n\nThe charter granted by bishop Huzmann went well beyond contemporary practice anywhere else in the empire. The Jews of Speyer were allowed to carry out any kind of trade, exchange gold and money, own land, have their own laws, justice system and administration, employ non-Jews as servants, and were not required to pay tolls or duties at the city's borders. The reason for asking the Jews to come to Speyer was their important role in the money and trade businesses, especially with distant regions. Money lenders were needed on a large scale for the construction of the cathedral. The deliberate settlement of Jews was seen as a measure for \"business development\". The Jews can also be regarded as pioneers of urban development in Germany. Bishops, lords or kings who granted privileges and protection to the Jews were at the same time securing for themselves considerable revenues and protection fees; since persecution of Jews and trade restrictions led to considerable economic disadvantages and loss of revenues, it was in the ruler's best interest to restrain the antisemitic fervor of the lower clergy and the public.\n\nWith the aid of bishop Huzmann the Jews of Speyer had their rights and privileges confirmed and even expanded (\"sub tuicionem nostram reciperemus et teneremus\") by Henry IV as he departed on his third punitive expedition to Italy in 1090. The rights and privileges which had been especially granted to the Jews of Speyer, in particular to Judah ben Kalonymus, David ben Meshullam, and Moses ben Ghutiel (Jekuthiel), were extended to all the Jews of the empire. This Imperial Jews Charter was one of the first in Germany. The regulations concerned various political, legal, economical and religious aspects of life, most prominently free enterprise, the sale of goods to Christians and protection of property. A new regulation was that Jews who acquired stolen goods had to sell them back at the same price if the former owner wished to buy them. This constituted a major improvement because it greatly reduced the business risk for the Jews who had often been subject to accusations that they were dealing in stolen goods. In the event of disagreements between Jews and Christians from then on the \"right of the concerned\" was to be employed, which meant that Jews could also prove their case by oath or witness. Trials by ordeal were forbidden. Jews were also allowed to address the emperor or the imperial court directly in case of difficulties. Among each other they could use their own courts, which was to help avoid arbitrariness by Christian judges. Torture of any kind was strictly forbidden, and in the case of murder or injury the privilege stated that fines were to be paid to the emperor. The privilege also introduced strict rules for baptisms. Forced baptisms of children were totally outlawed. Jews voluntarily getting baptised were required to think it over for three days. Conversions were also made more difficult in that baptised Jews would lose their rights to inheritance. Basically, these regulations were meant to protect the size of the Jewish community and to ensure continued revenues. Jews were also allowed to employ Christian maids, wet nurses and labourers in their homes as long as it was ensured that they could observe the Christian Sundays and holidays. Neither the original charter granted by the bishop nor its re-enactment by the emperor proved sufficient to afford the Jews adequate protection.\n\nThe two charters of 1084 and 1090 marked the beginning of the \"golden era\" of the Jews in Speyer which, with limitations, was to last into the 13th or 14th century. They also called for a sound Jewish community in the town by that time. According to these documents, an \"Archisynagogos\", also called a \"Jews bishop\" (episcopus Iudeorum) presided the administration as well as the court of the community. He was elected by the community and confirmed by the bishop. Later, sources report of a \"Jews council\" of twelve presided by the Jews bishop who represented the community outside. In 1333 and 1344, the authority of the Jews council was expressly confirmed by the city council of Speyer.\n\nOnly twelve years after granting the first privileges for Jews in the empire a wave of pogroms swept the country, triggered by an epidemic of the plague, which was blamed on the Jews, and the First crusade. The Jews of Speyer were among the first to be hit, but compared to the communities in Worms and Mainz, which followed a few days later, they got off lightly.\n\nOn 3 May 1096, Count Emicho of Leiningen stopped in Speyer on his way to the crusade and, together with burghers of Speyer and peasants from nearby, attacked the Jews and the synagogue. In a report on the pogroms of 1096 in Speyer and Worms, written 1097–1140 by the so-called \"\", it says: \"And it happened on the 8. day in the month of Iyar (6 May 1096), on a Sabbath, the last judgement started to come upon us as the mistaken and city dwellers rose in Speyer against the holy men, the pious of the Almighty; they conspired against them to seize them together in the synagogue. This came to their attention, so they rose early in the morning, even on Sabbath, prayed briefly and left the synagogue. And when they (the enemy) noticed that their plan to seize them together couldn't be followed, they rose against them and killed eleven souls among them….And it happened when Bishop John heard of this, he came with many troops and wholeheartedly stood by the community, he took them into his private quarters and saved them from their hands\" The bishop had the rioters punished severely and the Jews stayed in the bishop's palace on the northern side of the cathedral and in other nearby towns until the rage of the mob had subsided. Taking this action, which the Jews paid him for, the bishop of Speyer (Johann vom Kraichgau I, 1090–1104) prevented massacres and expulsions as happened in other cities of the Rhineland, thus saving himself and the town a valuable source of revenues. 800 Jews perished in the pogroms of Worms and even 1000 in Mainz. The events in Speyer are also mentioned in Solomon Bar Simson's chronicle on the Pogroms of 1096 which he wrote around 1140.\n\nAround the time of these events a second Jewish quarter was established in the vicinity of the cathedral along modern day Kleine Pfaffengasse which used to be the Judengasse (Jews Alley) while the settlement with a synagogue continued to exist in Altspeyer. It is estimated that the Jewish community of Speyer consisted of 300 to 400 people. Around 1100, on the Judengasse (today Pfaffengasse), the Jews built the Judenhof (Jewish courtyard) as the centre of their community containing a mikveh with a pool at groundwater level for ritual baths, a men's and later a women's synagogue. The synagogue, designed and built by the same architects as the cathedral of Speyer, was consecrated on 21 September 1104, eleven years after the pogrom of 1096. It fell into disuse in the 16th century but its ruins today represent the oldest visible remnants of a mikveh in central Europe. Today it is an archaeological heritage site and has been made accessible; the pool is still supplied by groundwater.\n\nAlong with the Frisians, the Jews made up the majority of the long distance merchants in the 11th and 12th centuries. Both groups had their headquarters in the merchant's quarters right at the free cathedral territory. Members of the Kalonymos family lived in Speyer at that time and took a leading part in the development of Jewish studies in Germany. One example is Jekuthiel ben Moses, a liturgical poet and author of the reshut יראתי to Kalir's Kerobah for the feast of Rosh Hashana. A son of Jekuthiel named Moses of Speyer has been quoted as a high Talmudical authority. Another Kalonymos from Speyer for some time was responsible for the finances of emperor Barbarossa. Another famous man of letters, Jehuda ben Samuel he-Chasid, called Jehuda the Pious, and the son of the German halachist Balakist Kalonymus ben Isaac the Elder, was born 1140 in Speyer.\nIn these years the Jewish community of Speyer became one of the most significant in the Holy Roman Empire. It was an important centre for Torah studies and, in spite of pogroms, persecution and expulsion, it had considerable influence on the spiritual and cultural life of the city. In a synod of Rabbis in Troyes around 1150 the leadership of the Jews in Germany was transferred to the Jewish communities of Speyer, Worms and Mainz. This was confirmed by a convention of Rabbis in Mainz. The three communities created a federation called \"SHUM\" (שום: initials of the Hebrew names of the three cities: Shpira (Hebrew: שפירא), Warmaisa, Magenza) and kept this leadership until the middle of the 13th century. Over a period of decades, these communities enacted a body of regulations known as Takkanot SHUM. The SHUM-Cities had their own rite and were accepted as central authority in legal and religious matters. Speyer had renowned Jewish schools and a highly frequented Yeshiva. Because of their high esteem in the Middle Ages the three SHUM-Cities were praised as \"Rhenish Jerusalem\". They had considerable influence on the development of Ashkenazi culture. In the 13th century Issac ben Mose Or Sarua from Vienna wrote: \"From our teachers in Mainz, Worms and Speyer the teachings were spread to all of Israel ...\", and all the communities in Germany and in the Slavic kingdoms were followers.\n\nYet, even in this flourishing period of the Speyer Jewry, there were outbursts of violence in 1146 during the Second Crusade, in which not only laymen but also members of the clergy took part. This came to the attention of Bernard of Clairvaux who wrote a letter of reproach to Bishop Günther. Among the victims of this pogrom was a woman named Minna, whose ears and tongue were cut off because she refused to submit to baptism.\n\nIn the wake of the Third Crusade in February 1195 the Jewish community of Speyer was subject to new persecutions during which nine Jews were killed. On 13 February the daughter of Rabbi and judge Isaak ben Ascher Halevi the Younger (*1130) was accused of ritual murder (blood libel), killed and displayed in the market square for three days. Halevi himself was killed when he tried to interfere and recover his daughter's body from the mob. Many Jews sought refuge on the high balcony of the synagogue where they had to remain until Hezekiah ben Reuben of Boppard and Moses ben Joseph ha-Kohen effected their release by paying a ransom. The Jews fled and their homes were plundered and burned; the synagogue in Altspeyer was destroyed. When Emperor Henry VI returned from Apulia the perpetrators were compelled to pay damages to him as well as to the Jews.\n\nRiots again occurred in Speyer in 1282 over a blood libel when Herbord, Ritter von der Ohm, accused the Jews of having murdered his grandson. The ensuing rage among the populace had Bishop Werner lay the matter before the provincial synod of Aschaffenburg on September 8, 1282. In the following year Emperor Rudolph approved the decision of this synod and ordered property to be taken from the Jews and reverted to the royal treasury. As the persecutions in Speyer continued, the Jews of Speyer and neighboring Mainz, Worms, and Oppenheim decided to emigrate to the Holy Land. Led by Meir B. Baruch in 1286, the attempt was ill-fated and the property of the few who actually succeeded was confiscated. On June 24, 1291, Rudolph issued another order for taxes, requiring the Jews of Speyer to maintain the newly established Fort and garrison of Landau.\n\nAt the beginning of the 14th century the powers of the emperor and the bishop were weakened; for a payment of 300 pounds heller the city of Speyer took on the protection of the Jews, which proved as ineffectual as that of the bishop.\n\nOn Easter week, 1343, when the body of a Christian named Ludwig was found, Jews were tortured and burned at the stake. On March 11, 1344, Speyer requested the king's permission to confiscate the houses of these Jews for the benefit of the city, which was granted.\nDuring the great plague of 1348/49 pogroms swept through France and Germany, especially the Rhineland, and on 22 January 1349 the Jewish community of Speyer was totally wiped out. Many chose to be burned in their homes, among them Rabbi Eliakim, others converted or fled to Heidelberg or Sinzheim. In one account, the burnt corpses were collected into empty winecasks and rolled into the Rhine. Property and the cemetery were confiscated.\nIn view of this \"breach of the urban order of peace\" (Bruch der städtischen Friedensordnung), which was to protect all the city dwellers alike, emperor Charles IV, who came to Speyer in spring 1349, declared on March 29, 1349, that the city had no blame whatsoever for the riots. Some of the Jews who had managed to escape returned to Speyer beginning in 1352, but were driven out anew the following year only to be allowed to return again in 1354, when they were assigned to quarters between Webergasse and the old school. On December 24 of that year, their synagogue and school, their cemetery and their \"Dantzhus\" or \"Brutehus\" were returned to them. In 1364 Bishop Adolph borrowed 800 guilders from the Jews for a weekly interest of one Strassburg pfennig. Bishop Nicolaus (1390) granted the Jews permission to settle in any city within the Speyer diocese on payment of a yearly tribute of 15 guilders. One half of this income went to the garrison, the other to the diocese. In 1394 King Wenceslaus renewed the decree of 1349 by Emperor Charles IV, which declared the Jews to be the property of the city.\n\nThe Jewish community of Speyer never regained the size and status it had had before 1349. In the years between the pogroms the relations between Jews and Christians were tense and the Jews had to put up with many restrictions. From 1405 to 1421 they were entirely banned from the city. On February 11, 1431, King Sigismund ordered that any complaint brought against Jews in Speyer should be heard only before the municipal court, indicating that Jews lived in Speyer that year. There is a document from 1434 in which the Speyer council renewed the right of the Jews to live in the city for another six years, for which 5 to 35 Gilders were to be paid per household. Yet, the council again had to yield to the demands of the citizens and decree an expulsion; as early as the following year, on 8 May 1435, the Jews were again expelled \"for ever\" from the city. The decree said: \"The council is compelled to banish the Jews; but it has no designs upon their lives or their property: it only revokes their rights of citizenship and of settlement. Until November 11 they are at liberty to go whither they please with all their property, and in the meantime they may make final disposition of their business affairs.\" One of the refugees from Speyer was Moses Mentzlav whose son, Israel Nathan, founded a printing house in Soncino, Italy.\n\nAgain, for 1467 there is a document confirming that the city of Speyer welcomed Jews for the duration of another ten years at the instigation of the bishop because he had special powers to set rules for the livelihoods of the Jews. In the years 1468, 1469 and 1472 bishop Matthias von Rammung decreed that all Jews in Speyer were to live together in one area and that they might have a synagogue. They were to wear clothes of such a fashion as to distinguish them from the Christians. Men were to wear pointed hats in different colours (this had already been decided at the Fourth Council of the Lateran in 1215) and a yellow ring on their chest. There are documents showing Jews of Speyer already wearing pointed hats by the mid-14th century. Jewish women had to wear two blue ribbons in their veils. Jews were forbidden to participate in the public occasions of the Christians, employ Christian servants or midwives, sell medicines, or engage in usury. Jews had to stay out of public areas and were to keep their windows and doors closed during Holy Week and important holidays. In 1472 many Jews committed suicide to avoid forced baptism. As of 1500/1529 there were no Jews in Speyer.\n\n\nAt the diet of 1544 in Speyer the Jews of the empire complained to emperor Charles V that they were mistreated and denied their given rights. This included beatings, tortures and killings, imprisonment, robbery, expulsion, closing of schools and synagogues, payment of tolls and duties and the denial of the right to appeal to the imperial or other courts. A trigger for the new wave of antisemitism in the empire can be seen in Martin Luther's antisemitic writings of 1543.\n\nAccordingly, Charles V considered it necessary to renew and confirm the Jews' charter. At the same time these rights and privileges were extended to the Jews of the whole empire. Nobody was to have the right to close their schools and synagogues, to drive them out or hinder their use. Whoever violated the imperial \"constitutio pacis\" by infringing upon the rights of the Jews was to be punished by every authority. Every Jew was to have the right to do business in the empire and every authority was to protect him and not burden him with tolls or duties. Jews were not required to wear \"Jewish insignias\" outside of their dwellings and no Jew was to be driven from his home without the emperor's expressed consent. Because Jews paid higher taxes but had no public offices, real estate or manual trade, they were allowed to charge higher interest rates than the Christians. It was forbidden to accuse Jews of using Christian blood without due proof and witness, to take them prisoner, to torture or to execute them. Infringements of this privilege were to be fined with 50 marks in gold, one half to be paid to the emperor and the other to the Jewish community.\nIn 1548 this charter was once more confirmed by Charles V and again by emperor Maximilian II in 1566.\n\nFrom 1621 to 1688 Jews again settled in Speyer. It was especially during the Thirty Years' War and the following years that the indebted cities saw themselves forced to make use of their financial power. In Speyer at least five such loans are documented between 1645 and 1656. The city started taking out loans from Jews as early as 1629. This enabled the Jews to anticipate the town's forthcoming profits in trade matters, which got them into conflict with the guilds. So, because of complaints, the Jews trading rights were restricted several times for short periods of time during the 17th century. Before Speyer was burned down by the French in 1689, trade and financial transactions with Jews had been totally banned. In the following years of reconstruction Jews were not allowed to resettle permanently.\n\nUntil 1750, the internal affairs of the small community were administered by the rabbi of Worms for an annual compensation of 10 Reichsthaler. Visits by the rabbis required official permission, as documents from 1682, 1685, 1698, 1713, and 1746 show. In the last-named document a reference is made to \"our rabbi David Strauss of Worms\". Episcopal edicts in 1717, 1719, 1722, 1726, 1727, 1728, 1736, 1741, and 1748 prohibited Romanies and Jews having no safe-conducts from visiting the diocese estates; and those that were provided with safe-conducts were required, for sanitary reasons, to submit their bundles or packages to a rigid examination.\nAs of 1752 the Jews were forbidden, on pain of severe punishment, to employ the services of any rabbi other than their own. The first rabbi of Speyer was Isaac Weil (1750–63), succeeded by Löwin Löb Calvaria, whose salary was provided by a bequest in the testament of a Jew named Süssle.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century, a Jewish community re-established itself in Speyer after the French Revolution. It distinguished itself by its liberal and emancipated attitudes which repeatedly brought it into conflict with the more conservative district rabbinate of Bad Dürkheim. In 1828 it founded a welfare club and contributed to the efforts of the city council fighting the great poverty in the town. In 1830 the Speyer Jewish community had 209 members. In 1837 it built a new synagogue on the site of the former church of St. Jacob on Heydenreichstraße; the synagogue included a little school.\n\nIn 1863 Carl David became the first Jewish council member in Speyer. A leading figure of the Jews, Sigmund Herz, was member of the city council from 1874 to 1914. By 1890 the Jewish community had grown to 535 members, the greatest number ever in Speyer; by 1910 the number had diminished to 403. In the early 1930s Speyer Jews started leaving for larger cities or to emigrate because of rising antisemitism.\n\nBy 1933, the number of Jews in Speyer had fallen to 269, and by the time their synagogue was torched in the November pogroms of 1938 (Kristallnacht) there were only 81 left. In the night of 9 November, SA and SS troops looted the synagogue on Heydenreichstraße, taking away the library, precious cloths, carpets and ritual utensils and setting the building alight. The firemen only kept an eye on the neighbouring buildings. Along with the synagogue the Jews also lost their school. The same night the Jewish cemetery was also vandalized. The debris of the synagogue was removed in the following days, which was billed to the Jewish community. A member of the community supplied a prayer room in his house on Herdstraße. The city later used this house as a storage for furniture left behind by deported Jews.\n\nOn 22 October 1940, 51 of the 60 Jews remaining in Speyer were deported to the internment camp of Gurs in southern France. Some of them managed to escape to Switzerland, the USA and South Africa with the aid of locals, while others were deported to Germany and murdered at Auschwitz. Only one Jew survived the Nazi era hidden in Speyer.\n\nIn 1951, the city of Speyer considered putting a parking lot on the site of the former synagogue. In 1955 the council decided on a payment of 30,000 DM to the German Jewish community (as settlement of a restitution procedure). In 1959 the department store company Anker bought the whole block, including the empty lot of the former synagogue, for Speyer's first department store on Maximilianstraße (today Kaufhof). At the recommendation of the German Cities Council, Speyer bought development bonds from the State of Israel worth 2,000 DM in 1961.\n\nIn 1968, a commemorative plaque was unveiled in the court of the mikveh commemorating the fate of the Speyer Jews. In 1979 another plaque was attached at the back wall of the Kaufhof department store building where the synagogue once stood. Right in front of the site a monument was erected in 1992. Shortly after it was moved across the street to its present place because of the restricted space. There was no majority for a 2007 motion in the council by the Social Democratic Party to have commemorative brass cobblestones (so-called Stolpersteine or \"stumbling stones\") placed in the pavement in front of buildings where Jews lived until their deportation. This has been done in many other German cities.\n\nUp to the 1990s there was no Jewish community in Speyer. It was only in October 1996 that a first assembly took place. Ten Jews who had emigrated from Eastern Europe decided to found a new Jewish community. It was also decided to build a new synagogue by extending the former medieval church of St. Guido. The cornerstone of the Synagogue Beith-Shalom was laid on 9 November 2008. Consecration took place on 9 November 2011 in the presence of President Christian Wulff, Premier Kurt Beck, Speyer Mayor Hansjörg Eger, Bishop Karl-Heinz Wiesemann and Church President Christian Schad. A very honoured guest was Jack Mayer, born 1930 in Speyer, who had fled with his mother and brother to the United States in 1938.\n\nThe medieval Jewish cemetery of Speyer lay opposite the Judenturm (Jews' tower) to the west of the former Jews' quarter in Altspeyer (today between Bahnhofstraße and Wormer Landstraße). After the pogroms of 1349 it was ploughed under and in 1358 the city returned some of it as leasehold estate. After the expulsion of 1405 the area was owned by a Christian but in 1429 the Jews were able to retrieve it. After the expulsion of 1435 the city confiscated the cemetery and leased it to Christians. In the 18th century it was the garden plot of the poor house (Elendherbergsacker). After Jews resettled in Speyer in the 19th century, a new cemetery was built at St. Klara Klosterweg and remained in use until 1888. The former mortuary and a part of the western wall are still in place. In 1888, the Jewish cemetery was moved to the new city cemetery built in the north of Speyer along Wormser Landstraße, where it now occupies the southeastern section.\n\n"}
{"id": "15945356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15945356", "title": "Howard &amp; Bullough", "text": "Howard &amp; Bullough\n\nHoward & Bullough was a firm of textile machine manufacturers in Accrington, Lancashire. The company was the world's major manufacturer of power looms in the 1860s.\n\nThe firm of Howard and Bleakley was founded in 1851 with four workers; in 1856 Bleakley retired and the partnership was changed to Howard & Bullough. John Bullough had perfected a self-acting temple on his handloom, and with William Kenworthy at Brookhouse Mills had been responsible for the Lancashire Loom. By 1856 they employed 150 workers; John's son James joined in 1862. They initially concentrated on looms, but eventually expanded to manufacture the complete range of machinery used in a cotton mill.\n\nJohn Bullough, (b. 1837) died in 1891. By then Bulloughs was the world's largest manufacturer of ring spinning frames, and John, the owner of the Isle of Rùm, was the first cotton machine manufacturing millionaire. Three of the company's executives, Edmund and Samuel Tweedale and Joseph Smalley left to set up business in Castleton, Rochdale. The firm was Tweedales and Smalley. The company's first spindles equipped the Newhey Spinning Mill in February 1893.\n\nBulloughs was one of the country's largest manufacturers. At its peak the Globe Works dominated the town, employing almost 6,000 workers and covering . Seventy-five percent of the company's production was exported.\n\nFollowing the refusal of Howard & Bullough's management to meet the demands of the Amalgamated Society of Engineers (ASE) for trade union recognition and a minimum wage, up to 600 engineers at the works went on strike on 2 July. Six days later, the management locked-out the whole workforce of nearly 5,000 men and boys. Although members of the A.S.E. received £1/week lock-out pay while on strike and 1100 members of the Gasworkers and General Labourers Union received 10s (50 pence)/week, some 2,000 non-union workers were left without any income. At this time, the defensive Battle of Mons was being fought and the War Office was actively seeking to recruit men. A Pals battalion had been raised in Manchester, and the Mayor of Accrington undertook to raise a battalion of Accrington Men.\n\nDuring the Second World War they turned to manufacture of armaments such as bayonets, shells, gun carriages, mine sinkers and aircraft components.\n\nIn the recession of the 1930s, Platt Brothers, Howard and Bullough, Brooks and Doxey, Asa Lees, Dobson and Barlow, Joseph Hibbert, John Hetherington and Tweedales and Smalley merged to become Textile Machinery Makers Ltd., but the individual units continued to trade under their own names until the 1970s, when they were rationalised into one company called Platt UK Ltd. In 1991 the company changed its name to Platt Saco Lowell. The Globe Works closed in 1993.\n\nJames Bullough improved his loom by inventing various components, including the \"self-acting temple\", which kept the woven cloth at its correct width, the weft fork (patented 1841 but disputed by Osbaldeston) and a loose reed that allowed the lathe to back away on encountering a shuttle trapped in the warp. Bullough also invented a simple but effective warning device which rang a bell every time the warp thread broke on his loom. He worked with William Kenworthy at Brookhouse Mills, with whom he applied his inventions to develop an improved power loom that became known as the Lancashire Loom.\n\nJohn Bullough, with James Whittaker and John Walmsley, developed a machine, patented in 1852, that sized two warps and wound them on two beams simultaneously.\n\nIn accordance with the traditions of the times, Bulloughs attempted to improve the lives of its workers with acts of philanthropy. It gave James Bullough Park to the town of Accrington in 1913, and the Globe Tennis club grounds in 1926.\n\n"}
{"id": "29821670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29821670", "title": "Invariable Calendar", "text": "Invariable Calendar\n\nIn April 1900, Professor L. A. Grosclaude of Geneva proposed the Invariable Calendar, New Era Calendar, or Normal Calendar with 12 months and four 91-day quarters of exactly 13 weeks. An additional day, termed New Year's Day, that was not any day of the week and not part of any month, would occur between December 31 and January 1. Another such day is inserted between June 31 and July 1 on leap years.\n\nThis model would be a perennial calendar, with each date occurring perennially on the same day of the week. Grosclaude lists many business advantages to this. Three monthly days important to businesses, the 1st, 15th, and 30th would always occur on the same 3 days of the week, respectively, and additionally would never occur on a Sunday, for example. It became the model for The World Calendar, promoted by Elisabeth Acheils and The World Calendar Association since 1930.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42187944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42187944", "title": "István Borzsák", "text": "István Borzsák\n\nIstván Borzsák (24 December 1914, Monor - 9 December 2007, Budapest), was a Hungarian classical scholar who was a specialist in Roman literature. He was a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31521353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31521353", "title": "Jack Buckland", "text": "Jack Buckland\n\nJohn Wilberforce \"Jack\" Buckland (1864–1897), also known as \"Tin Jack\", was a trader who lived in the South Pacific in the late 19th century. He travelled with Robert Louis Stevenson and his stories of life as an island trader became the inspiration for the character of Tommy Hadden in \"The Wrecker\" (1892).\n\nJack Buckland was born in 1864 in Sydney, the eldest child of William Wilberforce Buckland and Harriet Emmeline Hopkins. His mother was born in Sydney in 1842, the daughter of John Hopkins, a ship chandler who died when she was young. Her father's business partner, John Carr, and his wife Eliza later adopted Harriet in addition to the ship chandler business. Buckland's father was from Wraysbury in England, the son of an auctioneer, William Thomas Buckland. Buckland's father worked as a merchant and shipbroker in Australia and in 1863 married the 21-year-old Harriet Hopkins in Sydney. Buckland was their first child, born in 1864. When he was 9, Buckland's family returned to England, leaving him with the now elderly John and Eliza Carr who adopted him as their son. John Carr was therefore Buckland's stepfather as well as step-grandfather.\nThe Carr family lived in a house called \"Neepsend\" in Lavender Bay, North Sydney. Part of this property was later sold and it was from this sale that John Carr made sufficient money to provide Jack with his allowance. John Carr died in 1881 and the money from the property sale was left in a trust from which Jack received an annual allowance. In 1883, now living on his own, Jack visited his parents and siblings living near London in England. Later he returned to Sydney and subsequently worked for Henderson and Macfarlane of Auckland, as a copra trader.\n\nFrom the mid-1880s to about 1891, Buckland was a trader at Nonouti atoll, in Kiribati (at the time known as the Gilbert Islands) and during the 1890s he traded at Niutao and Nanumea in Tuvalu (at the time known as the Ellice Islands). The resident trader who succeeded him on Niutao was Fred Whibley.\n\nBuckland's primary income was £700 a year, paid to him by the trustee of the trust fund established by John Carr. That amount was sufficient to allowed him to live comfortably for part of the year in Sydney. To supplement this income, Buckland worked as a trader in the central Pacific. This was an isolated existence where he was likely to be the only European on a Pacific atoll. As a trader working for a trading company, he bought copra (dried coconut flesh), and sharks fin and sea cucumbers, for sale into Asia, as well as selling islanders tobacco and other European goods.\n\nAs a trader, Buckland chose an isolated life on a Pacific atoll rather that being a castaway or beachcomber. Howe (1984) estimated that in 1850 there were over 2,000 beachcombers throughout Polynesia and Micronesia. It was not only shipwrecked sailors forced, by circumstances, into a life of beachcombing with many choosing to escape from a life of respectability in the Victorian era.\n\nAs a respite from the isolated life on a Pacific atoll Jack Buckland would spend time enjoying the high life of Sydney where, in few months, he would dissipate his income. Furnas (1951) describes Jack Buckland as spending \"a short period each year in Sydney playing spendthrift on the accumulations of a small funded income and the rest of the year vegetating penniless as a petty trader out in the islands.\"\n\nIn April 1890 he was a passenger on the trading steamer the \"Janet Nicoll\", which left Sydney for a trading cruise around the central Pacific. Robert Louis Stevenson, his wife Fanny Vandegrift Stevenson, and her son Lloyd Osborne were also passengers on that voyage. The journal of Fanny Vandegrift Stevenson was published under the title \"The Cruise of the Janet Nichol\". Fanny Vandegrift Stevenson explained the origin of the name ‘Tin Jack’ as being the island equivalent of ‘Mr Jack’.\n\nFanny Vandegrift Stevenson recounts how Jack Buckland, inadvertently caused a fire on the \"Janet Nicoll\". In Auckland, New Zealand, Jack Buckland purchased ten pound of ‘calcium fire’ (fireworks); cartridges, grease paint, and false nose and a wig for the entertainment of the islanders at Jack's trading station on Nonouti atoll. However, on leaving harbour the ‘calcium fire’, which was promised by the chemist to be \"safe as a packet of sugar\", spontaneously caught alight causing the fireworks to explode in technicolour flashes endangering the ship – until the crew put out the fire.\n\nJack Buckland is acknowledged by Robert Louis Stevenson, as the inspiration for the character of Tom Hadden in The Wrecker (1892), for which Stevenson and Lloyd Osborne shared the writing.\n\nJack Buckland also receives a dedication in Island Nights' Entertainments (also known as South Sea Tales) a collection of short stories by Robert Louis Stevenson, first published in 1893. This collection is dedicated to Jack Buckland, Ben Hird, (supercargo or manager of the cargo owner's trade) and Harry Henderson partner in the firm Henderson and Macfarlane that owned the \"Janet Nicoll.\" A character referred to as ‘young Buncombe’ and inspired by Jack Buckland makes a brief appearance in chapter 2 of The Beach of Falesá.\n\nJack Buckland stayed at Vailima with Robert and Fanny Stevenson in 1894. In later correspondence to Lieutenant Eeles, an officer on \"H.M.S. Curacao\", Stevenson expresses his pleasure that his correspondent had met Jack Buckland:\n\n\"But the cream of the fun was your meeting with Burn. We not only know him, but (as the French say) we don't know anybody else; he is our intimate and adored original; and – prepare your mind – he was, is, and ever will be, TOMMY HADDON! As I don't believe you to be inspired, I suspect you to have suspected this. At least it was a mighty happy suspicion. You are quite right: Tommy is really 'a good chap,' though about as comic as they make them.\"\n\nWhile The Wrecker was not a commercial or critical success, in adopting Jack Buckland as a character, Stevenson describes a specific era of European engagement with the Pacific. Watson (2007) describes Stevenson's \"The Wrecker\" as \"a prophetically postmodern vision of a depthless world of travel, exile, novelty and rootlessness, of 'discarded sons' whose corruption, in a world they neither understand nor fully belong to, is curiously innocent.\"\n\nThe letters of Robert Louis Stevenson of January 1894 also record that Jack Buckland, and his \"avaga\" ('married one' in the Niutaon language) Meri Matavaka of the Luaseuta family of Niutao, visited Vailima, Samoa for three weeks. Jack Buckland was still at Vailima on 6 February 1894. During his time at Vailima Jack Buckland is mentioned as flirting with Addie (Adelaide), the daughter of Henry Ide, American Chief Justice in Samoa.\n\nJack Buckland then became the island trader on Nanumea in Tuvalu in about 1895. Meri Matavaka refused to move to Nanumea, the oral history of the Luaseuta family is that Jack Buckland abandoned Meri Matavaka in Sydney, Australia; her father travelled from Niutao to bring Meri back to Niutao. Meri Matavaka became the \"avaga\" ('married one') of Fred Whibley.\n\nRobert Louis Stevenson draws directly from the life of Jack Buckland in describing Tom Hadden in The Wrecker as being \"\"heir to a considerable property, which a prophetic father had placed in the hands of rigorous trustees\".\" (p. 296). Tin Jack's dissolute life came to an end in 1897. A sanitised version of the death of Jack Buckland published by Simpson (1913) describes him as being blown to pieces by an explosion on Suwarrow Island. Fanny Stevenson in her journal of the voyage of the \"Janet Nicoll\" published in 1914 described the trustee that provided Jack with the majority of his income as defrauding the trust of all the funds:\n\nWorks\n\nAbout\n\nWebsites\n"}
{"id": "4868391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4868391", "title": "Jacob Theodor Klein", "text": "Jacob Theodor Klein\n\nJacob Theodor Klein (nickname \"Plinius Gedanensium\"; 15 August 1685 – 27 February 1759) was a German jurist, historian, botanist, zoologist, mathematician and diplomat in service of Polish King August II the Strong.\n\nKlein was born on 15 August 1685 in Königsberg, Duchy of Prussia (now Kaliningrad, Russia). He studied natural history and history at the University of Königsberg. Between 1706 and 1712, Klein travelled through England, Germany, Holland and Austria in an educational journey, before returning to Königsberg.\n\nHe moved to Danzig after the death of his father, where he was elected city secretary in 1713. Between 1714 and 1716 he served as the city’s representative, or “resident secretary at court,” (\"residierender Sekretär\") in Dresden and then Warsaw.\n\nKlein began his scientific works in 1713 and began publishing his findings by 1722, as a member of the Institute of Sciences in Bologna. Influenced by Johann Philipp Breyne, his works dealt with matters of zoological nomenclature, and he set up his own system of classification of animals, which was based on the number, shape, and position of the limbs. He used his position as secretary to found a botanical garden there (now called \"Ogród Botaniczny w Oliwie).\"\n\nFor his work in the natural sciences, Klein had been rewarded with membership of several scientific societies, including the Royal Society in London, the Academy of in St. Petersburg, the \"Deutsche Gesellschaft\" in Jena, and the Danzig Research Society.\n\nOne of Klein’s daughters, Dorothea Juliane Klein, married physicist Darniel Gralath, who would become mayor of Danzig. Gralath inherited Klein’s library, which was praised by Swiss mathematician Jogann Bernoulli.\n\nKlein died on 27 February 1759 in Danzig.\n\nUsing his position as secretary of Danzig and with the help of other scholars, Klein set up a botanical garden in 1718, which was one of, if not the largest of its time. The garden was expanded to include live animals, zoological, fossil and amber collections, the shell collection of the mayor of Amsterdam Nicolaus Witsen, as well as a greenhouse which he used for experimentation with exotic plants. The collection became known as the Museum Kleinianum. It was sold to Margrave Friedrich of Brandenburg-Kulmbach in 1740. After the Margrave's death in 1763, the collection was donated to the Friedrich-Alexander Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU). It was praised by prominent Swiss mathematician Johann Bernoulli, who visited the museum in 1777 or 1778.\n\nInspired by Johann Phillipp Breyne, Klein developed an interest in science as early as 1713 and began publishing in 1722. He was especially interested in the systematic classification of living organisms, but excluded insects from his classifications. His system was based on external, easily identifiable traits, such as the number, shape and position of limbs. This put his work in opposition with that of Carl von Linné, of whom he was critical, and whose work has since garnered more widespread recognition, though some of Klein's classifications are still in use, for example, in the naming of echidnoderms. His work on sea urchins was the most prominent source of information on the species at the time. His essay \"Tentamen Herpetologiae (1755)\" featured the first mention of the term herpetology - the study of amphibians. However, his system of classification meant that species such as frogs and lizards, which belong to amphibians and reptiles respectively, were not distinguished as belonging to separate classes. Klein was critical of Linnaeus' system of classification, believing only easily recognisable features could be used to classify animals, as Adam had done when naming animals according to the Biblical story of creation.\nKlein published \"Historiae Piscium Naturalis promovendae Missus primus Gedani\" in 1744. The publication, dedicated to the Royal Society, focused on understanding the auditory capacity of cartilaginous and spinose fishes. According to John Eames, until the publication of the work, it was believed to have been understood that only cetaceous fish were known to have auditory passages, or ear holes, and that the question of whether fish could hear was still not understood. Aristotle claimed, in his \"History of Animals,\" that fishes possessed no evident auditory organs, but believed that nonetheless they must hear. In the Preface, Klein cites the work of Giulio Casare Casseri, who discovered bones in the heads of Pike or Jack fish, which he understood to be their organs of hearing, though he did not discover any manifest external auditory passages. In section of the essay titled \"De Lapillis, eorumque Numero in Craniis Piscium\" (roughly translated as “The bones, their number in the skull of Fish”) Klein considers what parts of the head of fish serve as the organ of hearing, and by what passages the sensation of sound is communicated to them. He refers to these bones as Ossicula – little bones – and considers them essential parts of the head, generated with the brain itself. He notes that the bones scale proportional to the size of the fish, and are most easily discovered in the heads of Spinose fish. Klein identifies three pairs of bones to which he attributes the sense of hearing, and he takes to correspond to the Incus, Malleus and Stapes of other animals. The first are the two largest, which he explains are easily found; the other two pairs, he explains, are small, difficult to find, enveloped in distinct fine membranes. Klein believed one could determine the age of fish by analysing the number and thickness of the Laminae and fibres of these bones. The bone to which Klein was referring, now called the otolith, acquires a growth ring every day for at least the first six months of its life. Klein inquiries into the nature of the passages by which vibrations produce a sense of hearing. He inspects the head of a Pike fish and observes several holes with bristles which lead to the auditory bones. He later dissected a Sturgeon fish and traced the auditory duct to the membrane in which the three bones are placed. Klein concludes that fishes do indeed have hearing organs and passages, communicated to through slight vibrations, though these passages are not easily demonstrable in many species. He observes that the auditory organs of cetaceous, cartilaginous and spinose fish differ from one another in structure and substance. The auditory organs of cetaceous fish are bony, while they are more fragile for cartilaginous fishes, he explains. He adds that water does not act as an impediment to hearing, but rather is the “intermedium” by which sound is communicated.\n\nKlein had been awarded the membership of several scientific societies, including the Royal Society in London, the St. Petersburg Academy, and the Danzig Research Society. The name of the genus Kleinia was given to the plant family of Compositae (Asteraceae) by Linnaeus in honour of Klein's works. He was described as the most important natural philosopher of his century by Professor Johann Daniel Titius.\n\nAlthough well respected by his colleagues, Klein was nonetheless accused by some contemporaries of being unscientific, alleging that he based his beliefs on the hearsay and the claims of ‘credulous’ people. The 1760 edition of the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London published a letter by 18th Century botanist and Fellow of the Royal Society, Peter Collinson, criticizing Klein for his belief that swallows (sand martins) are not migratory birds, and instead ‘retire under water’ during winters. Collinson accused Klein’s assertion as being “contrary to nature and reason,” and provided observations of Marine officers, such as Sir Charles Wager, to further his claim.\n\n"}
{"id": "6427482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6427482", "title": "James Klugmann", "text": "James Klugmann\n\nNorman John Klugmann (London, 27 February 1912 – London, 14 September 1977), generally known as James Klugmann, was a leading British Communist writer who became the official historian of the Communist Party of Great Britain.\n\nBorn Norman John Klugmann, in 1912 in Hampstead, he later adopted the name James His father was a tobacco pipe merchant, the family lived on Haverstock Hill, Hampstead, London.\nHis sister Kitty Cornforth was also a committed Communist, marrying Maurice Cornforth. Harry Hodson, in his memoirs, recalls visiting the Klugmann family home and recounts of James Klugmann, that \"his background was impeccably bourgeois.\"\n\nEducated at The Hall School, Hampstead, Gresham's School and Trinity College, Cambridge (at both of which he was a friend and contemporary of the spy Donald Maclean), Klugman joined the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB) in 1933 whilst studying at Cambridge, where he won a double first.\n\nKlugmann was at pains to deny any connection with spying during his lifetime and a long period of secret service surveillance on him threw up no obvious proof. He had however been on the fringes of such activity, which no doubt gave rise to suspicion, along with his university friendships of some of those who were involved in espionage. With the defection of Vasili Mitrokhin it was revealed that Klugmann was a KGB agent, under the codename MER, who was instrumental in recruiting the Cambridge Five.\n\nIn 1935, Klugmann gave up an academic career to become Secretary of the World Student Association, based in Paris, travelling widely across the world. This role, which involved the building of the Popular Front against fascism, first attracted the attention of the British Security Service (MI5). The Service's description of James for its operatives, which was put on file around 1938, said: \"Height about , light build, broad brow, small featured face, fuzz of greyish hair, probably wears glasses, not remarkably Jewish but rather foreign appearance.\"\n\nIn 1936 Klugmann met Arnold Deutsch, the head of recruitment for NKVD agents based in England. Deutsch's main objective was to get Klugmann to help recruit John Cairncross as a spy. Klugmann became an important figure in the network. However, as he was known to the police as an active member of the Communist Party of Great Britain meant that he was not used as a spy. However, he was given the codename MAYOR and was used to compile reports on other agents.\n\nDeutsch reported to Moscow: \"Mayor (James Klugmann) is a party functionary who devotes himself entirely to the party. He is a quiet and thoughtful man. Modest, conscientious, industrious and serious. Everybody who knows him likes him and respects him…. He is known to the British police as an active communist. He is used to legal work and therefore incautious. But if his attention is drawn to this he will act as required.\" \n\nHe had joined the Royal Army Service Corps as a private in 1940 but, having a natural flair for languages, he was soon transferred to the Special Operations Executive (SOE), who apparently ignored his communist sympathies. It was claimed by the official historian of SOE that when Klugmann was recruited into SOE by Brigadier Terence Airey (an old boy of his school), MI5 reported that he was not known to them. In fact, the relevant files had been destroyed at Wormwood Scrubs by a German air raid. In February 1942 Klugmann was posted to the Yugoslav Section of SOE as an intelligence and coordination officer, based in Cairo. Klugmann became critical of the Serb Royalist leader General Draza Mihailovic, who was the chief beneficiary of British aid and support in the resistance movement in Yugoslavia. Klugmann's reports influenced thinking at the Political Warfare Executive, Secret Intelligence Service (M16), the Foreign Office, and BBC. He suggested that the Communist leader Tito and his partisans were killing more Germans than Mihailovic's Cetniks despite smaller numbers.\n\nChurchill switched his support to Tito (see Yugoslavia and the Allies). Some eight understrength Wehrmacht divisions and Bulgarian and Croatian Ustase units were employed in Yugoslavia during 1943 and 1944 fighting the partisans. Yugoslavia was the only country during World War II that liberated itself with little military assistance from the Allies. Although this move was one favoured by Stalin, Tito and Stalin later fell out and became bitter critics. Klugmann rose to the rank of major, an unlikely outcome given his general disposition. He was under constant surveillance, suspected of being an NKVD agent along with Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean and Anthony Blunt, all of whom he knew at Cambridge, and one of whom, Maclean, had been a friend at Gresham's. Proof of this was found in the KGBs archives and it is confirmed that John \"James\" Klugmann was a KGB talent-spotter and agent who was instrumental in recruiting the Cambridge Five. During his time in SOE and later whilst a civilian in UNRRA (United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration) in Yugoslavia he supported Soviet aims.\n\nKlugmann remained a devout Communist all his life and went on to play a significant role in the CPGB becoming responsible for the Education branch. After his wartime service, he became a member of the executive committee of the British Communist Party and editor of \"Marxism Today\". Michael Straight (later owner and editor of \"The New Republic\" and chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts), an American who had studied at Trinity College, Cambridge, and who had become friends there with Blunt, Kim Philby, Donald Maclean and Guy Burgess described Klugmann as \"a warm-hearted and compassionate intellectual whose commitment to Communism left him no time for such minor preoccupations as taking a bath or cleaning his fingernails.\"\n\nOne of the most active and overt British communists of his generation, Klugmann became an influential left-wing journalist after the war and wrote the first two volumes of the official \"History of the Communist Party of Great Britain\", which was continued by Noreen Branson. He also wrote the controversial \"From Trotsky to Tito\" justifying, to a British communist audience, policy towards Tito's Yugoslavia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30756266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30756266", "title": "John Parker Lawson", "text": "John Parker Lawson\n\nJohn Parker Lawson (died 1852) was a clergyman of the Episcopal Church of Scotland and historian.\n\nOrdained a minister in the Episcopal Church of Scotland, he was for some time a chaplain in the British Army. Later he lived in Edinburgh, writing for the booksellers.\n\nHis works include: \n\nLawson also edited in 1844 the first two volumes of Robert Keith's \"History of the Affairs of Church and State in Scotland\" for the Spottiswoode Society, and wrote the letterpress for Clarkson Stanfield and James Duffield Harding's \"Scotland Delineated\", Edinburgh, 1847–54.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13092731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13092731", "title": "Judith Dupré", "text": "Judith Dupré\n\nJudith Dupré (born in Providence, Rhode Island) is a writer, structural historian, and public speaker. She is the \"New York Times\" bestselling author of several works of narrative nonfiction on art, design, and architecture. She has been described as “a scholar with a novelist’s eye for detail and a journalist’s easy style.”\n\nDupre was born in Providence, Rhode Island. She is the official biographer of One World Trade Center. Dupre is the author of the 2016 book titled \"One World Trade Center: Biography of the Building\". She is the only author given unfettered access to the Trade Center site, team, and archives by The Port Authority of New York & New Jersey. Dupré presents the story of the new World Trade Center in its entirety: from Mayor Rudy Giuliani's vow to rebuild on September 12, 2001, through the complex, often contentious interactions between multiple public and private agencies with a stake in the project, to the placing of One World Trade Center’s spire in 2013. The book incorporates over seventy interviews with major participants, including architects David M. Childs, Daniel Libeskind, Santiago Calatrava, and Michael Arad.\n\nHer books have been translated into fourteen languages. Their unusual shapes and bindings echo their subject matter, and honor the tradition and material presence of the illuminated book. \"Skyscrapers\" is 18” high. \"Bridges\" is a yard wide when open, to accommodate its panoramic photos of the longest structures. The cover of \"Churches\" is split down the center so that it opens like the doors of a cathedral. The cover of \"Monuments: America’s History in Art and Memory\" is a replica, in raised relief, of ancient stones; its title lettering was drawn for the book by Nicholas Benson. Each page design includes deep-captioned photographs, floating quotations, and sidebar explorations. The page layouts suggest a kinetic reading experience beyond the turning of successive pages, and have been designed to create individualized reading experiences, where the reader chooses how to engage the array of images, essays and marginal commentaries.\n\nThe National Endowment for the Humanities named Dupré an inaugural Public Scholar in 2015. She has received awards and fellowships from Yale University, New York State Council on the Arts, U.S. Institute of Museum and Library Services, and the NYS Foundation for the Arts. She is a Fellow of the MacDowell Colony, the oldest artists’ colony in the U.S. In 2004, the Westchester Arts Council awarded her the Artists Award, the county’s highest cultural honor, citing her as a “champion of the arts and literacy.”\n\nDupré was born into a family of architectural preservationists. She earned a M.Div. from Yale Divinity School in 2011. She is a fellow of Saybrook College at Yale University and a Dominique de Menil scholar at the Institute of Sacred Music, also at Yale. She received her undergraduate degree from Brown University in 1978 and did postgraduate work at Hunter College and the Open Atelier of Design and Architecture, both in New York City.\n\nDupré serves on the editorial board of Faith & Form, a journal of the American Institute of Architects' Interfaith Forum on Religion, Art and Architecture. She has curated and consulted on numerous contemporary art exhibitions, including an installation of temporary refugee housing on Sterling Quad at Yale Divinity School in 2007. From 1979 through 1990, she curated the Harry N. Abrams Art Collection, an important collection of Pop Art assembled by the art book publisher Harry Abrams.\n\nDupré's major works include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22485800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22485800", "title": "Kerateion", "text": "Kerateion\n\nKerateion () was the Jewish quarter in the Seleucid capital (and later Roman-Syrian capital) of Antioch on the Orontes. The suburb was located in the southern portion of the ancient city, situated between the Forum Colonnades of Herod and Mt. Tauris, a rocky crag at the foot of Mount Silpios. The city of Antioch was erected around 300 BC by Seleucus I Nicator. After defeating the General Antigones and taking the city also called Antigones, Seleucus built a new city and named it after his Father Antiochos, a General who served under Alexander. Seleucus then populated the city with Macedonians, Inhabitants of the recently conquered city, Antigones, and Jews. The Jewish population had a special, independent relationship with Seleucid dynasty and even had bronze plaques erected to codify their autonomous standing.\n\nAccording to Glanville Downey, Kerateion was situated in the southern end of the city between the Cherubim Gate from the first century and the newer Daphne Gate on the bank of the torrent called Phyrminus (across from the present barracks). If this is correct the situation will be close to the present synagogue in the opposite direction of Mount Staurin where St. Peter's Grotto is located.\n"}
{"id": "44134083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44134083", "title": "Leonid Makhnovets", "text": "Leonid Makhnovets\n\nLeonid Makhnovets was a Ukrainian literary scientist, historian, archaeologist, interpreter, bibliographer. He is a Doctor of Philological Sciences (1966) and a recipient of the Shevchenko National Prize (1990) for preparation and publishing \"Chronicle Ruthenian\" (based on Hypatian Codex).\n\nMakhnovets was born on May 31, 1919 in village Ozera, Kiev Governorate, Ukrainian People's Republic (today Borodyanka Raion, Kiev Oblast).\n\nAfter the fourth year at philology faculty of Kiev University, Makhnovets went to war (World War II) therefore he graduated it in 1947. After that Makhnovets entered doctorate at the Shevchenko Institute of Literature (National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine) graduating in 1950.\n\nIn 1950-55 he was a researcher at the Shevchenko State Museum, in 1955-72 Makhnovets worked in the Shevchenko Institute of Literature (National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine) from where he was groundlessly fired. Only an invitation to work at the Harvard University forced the Soviet government of Ukraine allowed him to return to scientific research. In 1975-85 Makhnovets worked as a researcher at the Institute of archaeology (National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine).\n\nHe researched history of literature and culture of Ukraine, including the period of Kievan Rus. Makhnovtsev translated and commented The Tale of Igor's Campaign (1970) and the Chronicle Ruthenian after Hypatian Codex (1990), created several detailed indices.\n\nMakhnovtsev is an author and coauthor of 400 works, compiler and editor of publications of Shevchenko Institute of Literature.\n\nMakhnovets died on January 19, 1993 in Kiev, Ukraine.\n\n"}
{"id": "58126720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58126720", "title": "Loango slavery harbour", "text": "Loango slavery harbour\n\nLoango Slavery Harbour is the republic of the Congo cultural site included in World heritage Tentative Lists in 2008.\n\nLoango Slavery Harbour is part of the Hinda district, in Kouilou department. This site is limited by:  Pointe indienne to the Southeast, Atlantic Ocean to the South and to the Southwest, to the North-West the village of Matombi and to the northeast the small town of Diosso, the former administrative district of Bwali, capital of the Kingdom of Loango. \n\nIt is overlooked by the ancient lagoon of Tchibete that the relentless marine erosion has almost completely disappeared. Herbaceous vegetation is dominated by small-sized trees, with sandy soil influenced by the marine climate. \n\nFrom 1500 to 1867, under the impetus of the European trade powers, the largest transoceanic deportation company in human history has moved nearly 12.5 million African black slaves from the African coasts to the American coast.\n\nThe below table summarizes the various slave boarding points on the African coasts, as well as an estimate of the corresponding number of slaves.\n\nIt should be noted that despite its importance as a site of intercultural exchanges in the modern world and its major contribution to the development of the Atlantic world through the transatlantic slave trade, the study of the coast of Loango did not have a lot of interest from scholarships. Phylis Martin is one of them.\n\nAn interesting literature has existed since the years 1980. However, it focused on the southern part of the mouth of the Congo River, namely Angola, dominated by the Portuguese. Focusing on Portuguese activities and archives, these studies have obscured the operation of trade in the Loango coast, a kind of \"free zone\" where local, British, French and Dutch merchants played a key role.\n\nIf we combine the numbers of Central Africa (Angola and Loango) and those of the East Coast, we find that nearly 6.2 million of slaves (about half of the total) are from countries speaking Bantu languages. The different ports of Central Africa are:\n\n\nDue to the number of captives passing through its site to the Americas, the former port of embarkation of Loango slaves is one of the most important in the Gulf of Guinea. More than 2 million slaves from the areas that today constitute Chad, Angola, southern Gabon, Democratic republic of the Congo and the current territory of the Republic of the Congo, would have transited through this site. \n\nBefore 1660, the Europeans travelled to the coast of Loango to obtain supplies of fabrics, ivory, rare wood (okoume, Padouk) and elephant tails. \n\nThe fabrics particularly played an essential role in the everyday life of the inhabitants. In addition to their roles in furniture and clothing, the cloths were used in the ceremonies of induction, initiation and burial and also as a currency of exchange.\n\nOne of the important access points for foreign traders of the 17th century was the commercial port of the Bay of Loango, located about 10 km from Bwali, the capital of the kingdom of Loango. They were then escorted to Bwali in hopes of being granted an audience with the Maloango, or meeting with royal officials (Mafouk) to negotiate the terms of the exchange.\n\nIn parallel, the Kingdom of Loango maintains trade with its neighbours from within. The access roads constituting this network are to the North the road to Mayumba, the Pool Malebo to the east and to Luanda to the south, passing through the kingdoms of Ngoyo and Kakongo. These are the famous caravan routes.\n\nFrom 1650, the influence of raffia fabrics will decrease to the benefit of fabrics imported from Europe and the West Indies. The Dutch traders, newcomers to the coast of Loango, little interested in raffia, preferred to exchange slaves, ivory or copper in exchange for Western cloths and garments. These latest were quickly adopted by the notable Loango, in addition to the usual attributes such as leopard skins or other royal adornments.\n\nBetween 1660 and 1867, the foreign trade in goods was definitively replaced by that of men. And it is the kingdom of Loango that sets the rules in its exchanges with the French, English or Dutch merchants, by making the competition between them. The merchants of Loango preferred their manufactured products compared to those of the Portuguese, as they found them to be better quality and cheaper.\n\nWhen his interests are threatened, in particular by the Portuguese, the Kingdom does not hesitate to recall that he is a master on his territory and that he trades with whoever he pleases. To violate local rules was to take the risk of retaliation for the offender (death, or delay in supplying the ships with goods...).\n\nIn the meantime, during which the mechanisms of this long-running trade were established, at least 475 000 slaves integrated the triangular trade flows, from the ports of the Loango coast (Loango Bay , Malemba and Cabinda Bay)..\n\n1.3 million additional captives leaving the same ports were recorded between 1811 and 1867 on board Portuguese, Brazilian and American ships. This makes the coast of Loango, one of the five most important African zones of triangular trade.\n\nThe factories at that time corresponded no less to a warehouse than to a branch of the parent company, which the European trader used as outpost to store the goods disembarked from the boat, before selling them or storing the slaves in waiting for the trip to the Americas. However, suspicious of the Portuguese and their role in the destabilization of their mighty neighbor, the kingdom of Kongo, from the forts installed along the Angolan coast, the Kingdom of Loango did not accept permanent installation of Factory.\n\nUnless, between 1608 and 1612, thanks to the interpersonal skills of Pieter van den Broecke, Dutch merchants installed factories in Mayumba and on Loango Bay to provide copper and ivory spikes.\n\nIn the face of Dutch competition, in 1624, Souza, the Portuguese governor of Luanda, asked the Maloango to close the competing factories. and expel these heretics. On the other hand, the governor promises to buy all the stocks of ivory and copper, to provide better quality products, to ensure his protection in the event of an enemy invasion and finally to send Jesuit priests to baptize the Ma Loango. The latter strongly retorted that he would continue to trade with both parties under the same conditions and that he had no intention of converting to Catholicism.\n\nThus, the Loango remained in control of its territorial integrity by controlling its economic relations, religious with the Atlantic powers. With its political and economic ascent, the area of influence of the Loango extended northward. At the end of the seventeenth century, with the disparting of the Kingdom of Kongo, the Loango also extended its influence towards the south by inaugurating a new model of road networks.\n\nThe historic site abandoned, seems interested neither the Congolese in general, nor the people from Pointe-Noire in particular.\n\nJoseph Kimfoko Madoungou (who has since a well-deserved retirement ), the curator of the Museum of Diosso, located nearby, has served as a guide to the few souls who venture there. Over the years he has perpetuated, with modest means, the memory of this place which has become the sanctuary of wild vegetation.\n\nThe port still keeps the remains of the transatlantic trade, which led to one of the greatest genocides of mankind:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIt should be noted that mango trees (\"Mangifera indica L.\") are a powerful symbol of the slave trade. In fact, these trees were first transported to Central and western Africa in the cargo of Portuguese ships of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries from their original domestication centres, India and Southeast Asia. The arrival of Mango in Africa, and then in Brazil, was part of a world trade of exotic fruits that included pineapple (\"Ananas comosus\"), banana (\"Musa\"), guava (\"Psidium Guajava\"), to name but a few examples.\n\nFrom the point of view of tradition, Father Raphael Nzaou, the head of the Catholic mission of Loango provides two explanations on the symbolic and origin of these mango trees. In the first, it describes how the slaves, in their march to the coast, have dropped the nuclei of mangoes which then turned into mango trees along the way. Mangoes thus symbolized their last African meal before they left for the Americas, which was under the understanding as a death. In the second explanation, the abbot tells how those who had remained on the land of Loango, planted a mango tree as a memorial of the missing near. He adds that, always nowadays, it is common to plant a tree on the funeral site of a deceased person.\n\nIn addition, the historical and emotional burden of this site is always noticeable. It is indeed the place where there are always several rites of induction and funeral of the Mâ Loango, the kings of the Kingdom of Loango.\n\nThe cultural importance of this site is also noticeable through the laments always sung by the inhabitants who remained on this sinister place, recalling the nostalgia of the descendants, remained to wait for loved ones torn from their affection and that they will never see again. Thus, the former port of embarkation, which has become a veritable sanctuary for its historical burden, is a key link for understanding the history of slavery.\n\nOn 12th June 2008, the site was included in the tentaive list of world cultural heritage and is part of the Unesco Slave Route Project.\n\nSince then, almost nothing has been done to highlight this vestige, like the island of Gorée in Senegal or Ouiddah in Benin. This makes more than one visitor shocked by this state of abandonment.\n\nSamuel Mabandza, departmental director of heritage in the Department of Kouilou, assures that \"the Congolese state is not insensitive to this situation\". He adds that \"it is planned to build an African city of arts surrounded by museums in the open air, in order to enhance the old port of embarkation of slaves.\" An action that will also benefit local communities\", he confides, without providing more details as to the deadlines for carrying out the project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142738", "title": "Matthew Paris", "text": "Matthew Paris\n\nMatthew Paris, known as Matthew of Paris (Latin: \"Matthæus Parisiensis\", \"Matthew the Parisian\"; c. 1200 – 1259), was a Benedictine monk, English chronicler, artist in illuminated manuscripts and cartographer, based at St Albans Abbey in Hertfordshire. He wrote a number of works, mostly historical, which he scribed and illuminated himself, typically in drawings partly coloured with watercolour washes, sometimes called \"tinted drawings\". Some were written in Latin, some in Anglo-Norman or French verse.\n\nHis \"Chronica Majora\" is an oft-cited source, though modern historians recognise that Paris was not always reliable. He tended to glorify Emperor Frederick II and denigrate the Pope. However, in his \"Historia Anglorum\", Paris displays a highly negative view of Frederick, going as far as to describe him as a \"tyrant\" who \"committed disgraceful crimes\".\n\nIn spite of his surname and knowledge of the French language, Paris was of English birth, and is believed by some chroniclers to be of the Paris family of Hildersham, Cambridgeshire. He may have studied at Paris in his youth after early education at St Albans School. The first we know of Matthew Paris (from his own writings) is that he was admitted as a monk to St Albans in 1217. It is on the assumption that he was in his teens on admission that his birth date is estimated; some scholars suspect he may have been ten years or more older; many monks only entered monastic life after pursuing a career in the world outside. He was clearly at ease with the nobility and even royalty, which may indicate that he came from a family of some status, although it also seems an indication of his personality. His life was mainly spent in this religious house. In 1248, Paris was sent to Norway as the bearer of a message from Louis IX to Haakon IV; he made himself so agreeable to the Norwegian sovereign that he was invited to superintend the reformation of the Benedictine Nidarholm Abbey outside Trondheim.\n\nApart from these missions, his known activities were devoted to the composition of history, a pursuit for which the monks of St Albans had long been famous. After admission to the order in 1217, he inherited the mantle of Roger of Wendover, the abbey's official recorder of events, in 1236. Paris revised Roger's work, adding new material to cover his own tenure. This \"Chronica Majora\" is an important historical source document, especially for the period between 1235 and 1259. Equally interesting are the illustrations Paris created for his work.\n\nThe Dublin MS (see below) contains interesting notes, which shed light on Paris' involvement in other manuscripts, and on the way his own were used. They are in French and in his handwriting:\n\nIt is presumed the last relates to Paris acting as commissioning agent and iconographical consultant for the Countess with another artist.\n\nThe lending of his manuscripts to aristocratic households, apparently for periods of weeks or months at a time, suggests why he made several different illustrated versions of his Chronicle.\n\nParis' manuscripts mostly contain more than one text, and often begin with a rather random assortment of prefatory full-page miniatures. Some have survived incomplete, and the various elements now bound together may not have been intended to be so by Paris. Unless stated otherwise, all were given by Paris to his monastery (from some inscriptions it seems they were regarded as his property to dispose of). The monastic libraries were broken up at the Dissolution. These MS seem to have been appreciated, and were quickly collected by bibliophiles. Many of his manuscripts in the British Library are from the Cotton Library.\n\nAlso, fragments of a Latin biography of Stephen Langton. Various other works, especially maps.\n\nA panel painting on oak of St Peter, the only surviving part of a tabernacle shrine (1850 x 750 mm), in the Museum of Oslo University has been attributed to Paris, presumably dating from his visit in 1248. Local paintings are usually on pine, so he may have brought this with him, or sent it later.\n\nIn some of Paris' manuscripts, a framed miniature occupies the upper half of the page, and in others they are \"marginal\" – unframed and occupying the bottom quarter (approximately) of the page. Tinted drawings were an established style well before Paris, and became especially popular in the first half of the 13th century. They were certainly much cheaper and quicker than fully painted illuminations. The tradition of tinted drawings or outline drawings with ink supplemented by coloured wash was distinctively English, dating back to the Anglo-Saxon art of the mid-10th century, and connected with the English Benedictine Reform of the period. A strong influence on one branch of the style was the Carolingian Utrecht Psalter, which was at Canterbury from about 1000 to 1640. This was copied in the 1020s in the Harley Psalter, and in the Eadwine Psalter of the mid-12th century. \n\nRecent scholarship, notably that of Nigel Morgan, suggests that Paris' influence on other artists of the period has been exaggerated. This is likely because so much more is known about him than other English illuminators of the period, who are mostly anonymous. Most manuscripts seem to have been produced by lay artists in this period. William de Brailes is shown with a clerical tonsure, but he was married, which suggests he had minor orders only. The manuscripts produced by Paris show few signs of collaboration, but art historians detect a School of St Albans' surviving after Paris' death, influenced by him.\nParis' style suggests that it was formed by works from around 1200. He was somewhat old-fashioned in retaining a roundness in his figures, rather than adopting the thin angularity of most of his artist contemporaries, especially those in London. His compositions are very inventive; his position as a well-connected monk may have given him more confidence in creating new compositions, whereas a lay artist would prefer to stick to traditional formulae. It may also reflect the lack of full training in the art of the period. His colouring emphasises green and blue, and together with his characteristic layout of a picture in the top half of a page, is relatively distinctive. What are probably his final sketches are found in \"Vitae duorum Offarum\" in BL MS Cotton Nero D I.\n\nFrom 1235, the point at which Wendover dropped his pen, Paris continued the history on the plan which his predecessors had followed. He derived much of his information from the letters of important people, which he sometimes inserts, but much more from conversation with the eyewitnesses of events. Among his informants were Richard, Earl of Cornwall and King Henry III, with whom he appears to have been on intimate terms.\n\nThe king knew that Paris was writing a history, and wanted it to be as exact as possible. In 1257, in the course of a week's visit to St Albans, Henry kept the chronicler beside him night and day, \"and guided my pen,\" says Paris, \"with much goodwill and diligence.\" It is curious that the \"Chronica majora\" gives so unfavourable an account of the king's policy. Henry Richards Luard supposes that Paris never intended his work to be read in its present form. Many passages of the autograph have written next to them, the \"note offendiculum\", which shows that the writer understood the danger which he ran. On the other hand, unexpurgated copies were made in Paris's lifetime. Although the offending passages are duly omitted or softened in his abridgment of his longer work, the \"Historia Anglorum\" (written about 1253), Paris's real feelings must have been an open secret. There is no ground for the old theory that he was an official historiographer.\nNaturalists have praised his descriptions of the English wildlife of his time, brief though they are: in particular his valuable description of the first irruption into England in 1254 of the common crossbill.\n\nThe relation of Matthew Paris's work to those of John de Celia (John of Wallingford) and Roger of Wendover may be studied in Henry Richards Luard's edition of the \"Chronica majora\" (7 vols., Rolls series, 1872–1881), which contains valuable prefaces. The \"Historia Anglorum sive historia minor\" (1067–1253) has been edited by Frederic Madden (3 vols., Rolls series, 1866–1869).\n\nMatthew Paris is sometimes confused with Matthew of Westminster, the reputed author of the \"Flores historiarum\" edited by Luard (3 vols., Rolls series, 1890). This work, compiled by various hands, is an edition of Matthew Paris, with continuations extending to 1326.\n\nHe wrote a life of Edmund of Abingdon. He also wrote the Anglo-Norman \"La Estoire de Seint Aedward le Rei\" (the History of Saint Edward the King), which survives in a beautifully illuminated manuscript version, Cambridge, Cambridge University Library MS. Ee.3.59. The text is edited in K.Y. Wallace, \"La Estoire de Seint Aedward le Rei\", Anglo-Norman Text Society 41 (1983).\n\nParis House at St Albans High School for Girls is named after him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22843233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22843233", "title": "Michael Fullilove", "text": "Michael Fullilove\n\nMichael Fullilove, a public and international policy academic, is the Executive Director of the Lowy Institute for International Policy, an international policy think tank located in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.\n\nFullilove is the author of \"Rendezvous with Destiny: How Franklin D. Roosevelt and Five Extraordinary Men Took America into the War and into the World\" (2013), which won the 2014 New South Wales Premier's Literary Award for Non-Fiction. He is also the editor of a 2014 revised edition of \"Men and Women of Australia! Our Greatest Modern Speeches\".\n\nFullilove writes widely on global issues and Australian foreign policy. His work has appeared in numerous publications and newspapers including \"The Australian\", \"The Australian Financial Review\", \"The Financial Times\", \"Foreign Affairs\", \"Foreign Policy\", \"The National Interest\", \"The New York Times\", \"Slate\", \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and \"The Washington Post\".\n\nHe also regularly appears as a guest on Australian and international television and radio, and in the past has appeared on programs such as \"Charlie Rose\", ABC Radio National's \"RN Breakfast\" and the ABC television's \"Lateline\". In 2015, he delivered the ABC Boyer Lectures.\n\nFullilove's high school education was at North Sydney Boys' High School in Crows Nest, Sydney. He undertook undergraduate studies at the University of Sydney and the University of New South Wales, where he received degrees in arts and law and was awarded dual university medals. He studied as a Rhodes Scholar at the University of Oxford, where he took a master's degree and a doctorate in international relations.\n\nFullilove is currently the executive director of the Lowy Institute for International Policy. He wrote the feasibility study for the Lowy Institute in 2002, and served as the director of its global issues program for almost a decade. He was then appointed to the executive director position in August 2012. He has also worked as a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C., an adviser to Australian Prime Minister Paul Keating, and a lawyer. Fullilove remains a nonresident senior fellow at Brookings.\n\nIn 2005, Fullilove published \"'Men and Women of Australia!' Our Greatest Modern Speeches\", an edited collection of post-Federation speeches delivered either by Australians or by notable visitors to Australia. A revised second edition of this collection was published in 2014. In 2013 he co-edited, with Lowy Institute Research Director Anthony Bubalo, \"Reports from a Turbulent Decade\", an anthology of Lowy Institute's work from 2003 to 2013. Also in 2013, Fullilove published his \"Rendezvous with Destiny: How Franklin D. Roosevelt and Five Extraordinary Men Took America into the War and into the World\", which documents the role played by five of Franklin D. Roosevelt's 'personal envoys' in drawing the United States into the Second World War. On 19 May 2014 \"Rendezvous with Destiny\" was awarded the New South Wales Premier's Literary Award for Non-Fiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1069141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1069141", "title": "Michael Scheuer", "text": "Michael Scheuer\n\nMichael F. Scheuer (born 1952) is a former intelligence officer for the Central Intelligence Agency, American blogger, author, foreign policy critic, and political analyst. He was an adjunct professor at Georgetown University's Center for Peace and Security Studies. One of his assignments during his 22-year career was serving as Chief of the Bin Laden Issue Station (aka \"Alec Station\") (the Osama bin Laden tracking unit at the Counterterrorism Center) from 1996 to 1999. He also served as Special Advisor to the Chief of Alec Station from September 2001 to November 2004.\n\nScheuer became a public figure after being outed as the anonymous author of the 2004 book \"Imperial Hubris,\" in which he criticized many of the United States' assumptions about Islamist insurgencies and particularly Osama bin Laden. Later in 2004, shortly after the 'outing' of Scheuer's harsh criticism of America's close alliance with Israel, Scheuer resigned from his position at the CIA. In his book Scheuer depicted bin Laden as a rational actor who was fighting to weaken the United States by weakening its economy, rather than merely combating and killing Americans.\n\nScheuer challenges the common assumption that terrorism is the threat facing the United States in the modern era, arguing rather that Islamist insurgency (and not \"terrorism\") is the core of the conflict between the U.S. and Islamist forces, who in places such as Kashmir, Xinjiang, and Chechnya are \"struggling not just for independence but against institutionalized barbarism.\" Osama bin Laden acknowledged the book in a 2007 statement, suggesting that it revealed \"the reasons for your losing the war against us\".\n\nIn February 2009, Scheuer reported that, as a consequence of his statements about US foreign policy towards Israel, he had been fired from his position as a senior fellow of the Jamestown Foundation by Jamestown's president. In December 2013 and January 2014, Scheuer was criticized for seeming to advise American citizens to seriously consider assassinating US President Barack Obama. In September 2014, in addition to earlier \"praise\" received from Al-Qaeda, the Islamic State issued a press release quoting Scheuer in order to appeal to an American audience.\n\nScheuer was born in Buffalo and graduated from Canisius College in 1974, and went on to earn an M.A. from Niagara University in 1976 and another M.A. from Carleton University in 1982. He also received a Ph.D. in British Empire-U.S.-Canada-U.K. relations from the University of Manitoba in 1986.\n\nScheuer served in the CIA for 22 years before resigning in 2004. He was chief of the Osama bin Laden unit at the Counterterrorist Center from 1996 to 1999 and worked as Special Adviser to the Chief of the bin Laden Unit from September 2001 to November 2004. He is now known to have been the anonymous author of both the 2004 book \"Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror\" and the earlier anonymous work, \"Through Our Enemies' Eyes: Osama bin Laden, Radical Islam, and the Future of America\". After his anonymously-published books had been publicly associated with his name, he was mentioned in an Osama bin Laden statement of September 7, 2007. According to bin Laden, \"If you want to understand what's going on and if you would like to get to know some of the reasons for your losing the war against us, then read the book of Michael Scheuer in this regard.\"\n\nAfter leaving the CIA in 2004, Scheuer worked as a news analyst for CBS News and a terrorism analyst for The Jamestown Foundation's online publication \"Global Terrorism Analysis.\" He also makes radio and television appearances and teaches a graduate-level course on Al-Qaeda at Georgetown University. He also participates in conferences on terrorism and national security issues, such as the New America Foundation's December 2004 conference, \"Al Qaeda 2.0: Transnational Terrorism After 9/11.\"\n\nIn 2009, Scheuer reported that he had lost his position as a Senior Fellow with the Jamestown Foundation, after \"several major financial donors to Jamestown threatened to withdraw funding\" if he continued in that role. The funding threats were pursuant to his criticism of Barack Obama's \"dancing the Tel Aviv two-step\" in allegedly kowtowing to the Israeli lobby, as well as Scheuer's disdaining of Obama's selection as Chief of Staff of Rahm Emanuel, \"a U.S. citizen who during the 1991 Gulf War left America to serve in Israel's military.\"\n\nScheuer's book, \"Marching Toward Hell: America and Islam After Iraq\" was published on February 12, 2008.\n\nHis first book, published anonymously, is an analysis of the public discourse available on al Qaeda's ideology and strategy. In it, Scheuer explores the bin Laden phenomenon and its implications for U.S. security. He began the book in 1999 as an unclassified manual for counterterrorism officers. Due to the secrecy agreement he signed as an employee of the CIA, the book is based solely on unclassified intelligence or material available from open sources such as media reports. His main thesis in the work is that the view of bin Laden as a lunatic is a form of \"myopia\" that limits Western military thinkers' ability to respond to the bin Laden phenomenon. He writes that \"the West's road to hell lies in approaching the bin Laden problem with the presumption that only the lunatic fringe could oppose what the United States is trying to accomplish through its foreign policy toward the Muslim world. Bin Laden's philosophy is slowly harnessing the two most powerful motivating forces in contemporary international affairs: religion and nationalism.\"\n\n[T]he crux of my argument is simply that America is in a war with militant Islamists that it cannot avoid; one that it cannot talk or appease its way out of; one in which our irreconcilable Islamist foes will have to be killed, an act which unavoidably will lead to innocent deaths; and one that is motivated in large measure by the impact of U.S. foreign policies in the Islamic world, one of which is unqualified U.S. support for Israel. \n\nIn his second book, \"Imperial Hubris\", a New York Times bestseller, Scheuer writes that the Islamist threat to the United States is rooted in \"how easy it is for Muslims to see, hear, experience, and hate the six U.S. policies bin Laden repeatedly refers to as anti-Muslim:\n\nScheuer contends that Al Qaeda is following a martial strategy that is more rational than it is given credit for among Western politicians and media. He cites Clausewitz's dictum that one must strike one's enemy's \"center of gravity\", and pairs it with an al Qaeda writer's assertion that \"the American economy is the American center of gravity\".\n\nIn a videotape released around September 7, 2007, Osama bin Laden stated, \"If you want to understand what's going on and if you would like to get to know some of the reasons for your losing the war against us, then read the book of Michael Scheuer.\"\n\nReleased in 2008, \"Marching Toward Hell: America and Islam After Iraq\" how the 2003 Iraq War has affected Al-Qaeda and the United States. He argues that the instability in the Iraq War has benefited Al-Qaeda without serving any U.S. interests.\n\nScheuer penned an article advocating non-interventionism against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. He maintained that Islamic State is stronger militarily than the Obama administration believes in several key regions: 1) the Balkans; 2) Libya; 3) Afghanistan; and 4) certain \"maritime chokepoints.\" The only remaining option, according to Scheuer, is to abandon interventionist policies and allow Sunni Islam to establish an international caliphate, while defending the United States alone. The Islamic State reprinted Scheuer's article in its entirety in the 11th issue of its propaganda magazine \"Dabiq\" in a section named \"In the words of the enemy\".\n\nScheuer's views emphasized the danger of Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda, as well as the ineffectiveness of U.S. policy against these imminent threats. The threat to the United States, Scheuer has consistently maintained, continues to grow, and the U.S. continually fails to grasp the nature of the struggle in which it is engaged: Islamist and anti-American sentiment continue to grow around the world, and the bin Laden movement is aimed, not at killing or conquering Americans or reforming their internal political systems, but rather bankrupting them in order to reduce their worldwide influence and thereby liberate Muslims from the yoke of American political, military, and financial influence. The failure of the U.S. to apprehend this threat is, in part, rooted in a misunderstanding and underestimation of Osama bin Laden himself. To Scheuer, Osama bin Laden's \"beliefs, goals, and intentions\" were\n\ncarefully chosen, plainly spoken, and precise. He has set out the Muslim world's problems as he sees them; determined that they are caused by the United States; explained why they must be remedied; and outlined how he will try to do so. Seldom in America's history has an enemy laid out so clearly the basis for the war he is waging against it.\n\nScheuer's criticism of U.S. foreign policy includes a sweeping condemnation of the invasion of Iraq, which he has characterized as a \"Christmas present\" to Osama bin Laden's Islamist recruitment efforts, and a validation of bin Laden's claims that the U.S. is at war with Islam. From his personal involvement in background research in the run up to the war, Scheuer states that \"there was no connection between [Al Qaeda] and Saddam.\"\n\nU.S. rhetoric about bin Laden having allegedly \"hat[ed] freedom\" has also irked Scheuer, who suggests that those \"willing to give their lives to destroy the dictatorship in Saudi Arabia ... must want freedom in some kind of way.\" This erroneous rhetoric, according to Scheuer, is not only to be found in the media and among politicians, but even in the 9/11 Commission report, in which bin Laden and his followers were identified \"as takfiris, who kill Muslims if they don't agree with them. They're not takfiris. They're just very devout, severe Salafists and Wahhabis.\"\n\nThe insistence on referring to al Qaeda and the Islamist movement around it as a terrorist group or terrorist movement has also been a mistake, according to Scheuer. The U.S. is faced with an insurgency, rather than mere terrorism.\n\nSpeaking on the BBC News on November 9, 2012, Scheuer criticized what he called the Obama administration's deceit about the threat from Islamic militants, and misleading the American people in his first administration by claiming that the word \"jihad\" had nothing to do with military affairs, and that it had to do with \"self reform and community improvement\", which Scheuer claims was a blatant lie.\n\nScheuer has been critical of the Bush and Clinton administrations for not having killed bin Laden, for costly and disastrous policy missteps, and for not taking decisive measures to defend the country. He states that Clinton had eight to ten opportunities to kill bin Laden prior to September 11, and Bush had one opportunity thereafter. Richard A. Clarke and the Clinton administration, according to Scheuer, thwarted the CIA's ambitions to kidnap or kill bin Laden when they had the chance. According to Scheuer,\n\nClarke's book \"Against All Enemies\" is also a crucial complement to the September 11 panel's failure to condemn Mr. Clinton's failure to capture or kill bin Laden on any of the eight to 10 chances afforded by CIA reporting. Mr. Clarke never mentions that President Bush had no chances to kill bin Laden before September 11 and leaves readers with the false impression that he, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Sandy Berger, did their best to end the bin Laden threat. That trio, in my view, abetted al Qaeda, and if the September 11 families were smart they would focus on the dereliction of Dick [Clarke], Bill [Clinton] and Sandy [Berger] and not the antics of convicted September 11 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui.\n\nOf the Bush administration, Scheuer warns against assigning it full responsibility for the nation's troubles since September 11, 2001. Although the \"unprovoked attack of Iraq\" will forever be remembered as \"infamous\", as will Dick Cheney's \"reptilian contention that Americans who criticize U.S. foreign policy are 'validating the strategy of the terrorists',\" according to Scheuer, a \"bipartisan governing elite\", both Democratic and Republican, is to blame for the nation's woes. (Notwithstanding the bipartisan responsibility, Scheuer comments, \"the thought of what history will say about Donald Rumsfeld's tenure at the Department of Defense ought to make his relatives shudder down to their latest generation.\")\n\nIn 2007, Scheuer said \"The Iranians are no threat to the United States unless we provoke them. They may be a threat to the Israelis. They‘re not a threat to the United States. The threat to the United States, inside the United States, comes from al Qaeda...These people are going to detonate a nuclear device inside the United States, and we're going to have absolutely nothing to respond against.\"\n\nScheuer has stated that the Mearsheimer and Walt paper \"The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy\" is essentially correct. Israel, according to Scheuer, has engaged in one of the most successful campaigns to influence public opinion in the United States ever conducted by a foreign government. Scheuer said to NPR that \"They [Mearsheimer and Walt] should be credited for the courage they have had to actually present a paper on the subject. I hope they move on and do the Saudi lobby, which is probably more dangerous to the United States than the Israeli lobby.\"\n\nIn \"Marching Toward Hell\", Scheuer laments \"the war in Iraq that was instigated by U.S. citizen Israel-firsters and their evangelical Christian allies\". He continues,\n\nBecause both U.S. political parties are wholly owned subsidiaries of the American Israeli Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) and the Israeli government, there is no large-scale U.S. military withdrawal from Iraq in the cards... If you doubt this, keep in mind the name Rahm Emanuel. Slated to be the president-elect's chief of staff, Mr. Emanuel has labored as a volunteer for AIPAC's various anti-U.S. causes, strove to ensure the defeat of anti-Iraq War Democratic congressional candidates in 2006, and in 1991, as a 32-year-old U.S. citizen, chose to serve with the Israeli Defense Forces rather than volunteer to fight for the United States in the war against Saddam's Iraq.\n\nIn April 2009, Scheuer participated in the Doha Debates at Georgetown University, where he debated for the motion \"This house believes that it is time for the USA to get tough on Israel\" with fellow speaker Avraham Burg. Speakers against the motion were Dore Gold and Alan Dershowitz. Burg and Scheuer won the debate, with 63% of the audience voting for the motion. During the debate, Scheuer suggested that \"the war in Iraq is the responsibility of the American fifth column that supports Israel\" and accused Dershowitz of being part of this \"fifth column\". Dershowitz responded that he opposed the war in Iraq, that \"more Jews than any other ethnic group in America opposed the war in Iraq\" and that Scheuer was engaging in \"bigotry.\"\n\nThomas Joscelyn of \"Weekly Standard\" wrote a critical piece on Scheuer and an interview Scheuer did on Chris Matthews \"Hardball\". According to Joscelyn, Scheuer's claims that \"there was no evidence of a relationship between Saddam Hussein's Iraq and al Qaeda\", in various interviews, \"directly contradicted\" Scheuer's earlier assertions, in his first book, in which Scheuer \"cited numerous pieces of evidence showing that there was, in fact, a working relationship between Saddam and al Qaeda.\"\n\nScheuer wrote about a relationship between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda in his 2002 book. Yet when interviewed in 2004 he stated that he had found no evidence of a Saddam/al-Qaeda connection. Tim Russert asked Scheuer to explain the seeming contradiction on \"Meet the Press\" (30 November 2004):\n\nScheuer explains more fully in the revised edition of his 2002 book the exhaustive study of the evidence of Iraq-al-Qaeda cooperation that eventually led him to the conclusion that there was no relationship between the two forces:\n\nScheuer has stated his objection to any involvement by the US in the Libyan insurgency, being particularly critical of the work of United States' UN representative Susan E. Rice, calling the whole affair \"none of our business\" and essentially a \"recruiting tool for terrorists.\"\nHis overall view being that the interests of US foreign policy are far better served by the current status quo, whereby the existing autocratic regimes are better able to suppress the threat he perceives from Al Qaida incursion than western style democratic systems.\nScheuer believes that, irrespective of NATO ostensibly leading the bombing operations, \"in the Muslim world, this is Americans killing Muslims again, and it looks like it's for oil.\"\n\nScheuer penned an editorial in late December 2011 endorsing US Presidential candidate Ron Paul. He said, \"Dr. Paul's precise use of history and common sense exposes the exorbitantly costly effort to build democracies in the Islamic world for what it is; namely, Washington throwing money down the drain for a cause that is impossibly lost from the start and one that will involve us in wars where we have no interests.\"\n\nScheuer has expressed his support for Donald Trump, in multiple blog postings on non-intervention.com. Scheuer based his support on, in his view, Trump's strong support of the 2nd Amendment, Trump's proposed wall along the Southern Border, Trump's skepticism of NATO and military intervention in the Muslim World, and Trump's unpopularity with neoconservatives and their media outlets such as \"The Weekly Standard\", \"National Review\", and also much of the mainstream media. Scheuer also likes Trump's \"America First\" talk towards American statecraft.\n\nIn July 2018, Scheuer called upon \"those millions of well-armed citizens who voted for Trump\" to be ready to kill \"a long and very precise list\" of those who oppose Trump. His list included the entire mainstream media and two former Presidents. \"If Trump does not act soon to erase\" his opponents, he wrote, \"the armed citizenry must step in and eliminate them.\" Scheuer named those opponents as:\n\nScheuer concluded by looking forward to the \"utter joy and satisfaction to be derived from beholding great piles of dead U.S.-citizen tyrants.\"\n\nIn March 2018, Michael Scheuer claimed that the European Union was in the process of \"falling apart\", saying that British Prime Minister Theresa May was \"siding with the EU\" during the future relation talks of the UK seceding the European Union.\n\nScheuer has called for the public execution of European politicians, saying that \"all European rulers are tyrants\" adding that \"they are a despicable bunch, the people that head the European Union, and they really deserve to be hung.\"\n\nHe is critical of the EU's abolishment of the death penalty and the implications it has on the deportation of terrorist suspects, saying that \"the EU's policy of easily obtainable political asylum and its prohibition against deporting wanted or convicted terrorists to a country with a death penalty have made Europe a major, consistent and invulnerable source of terrorist threat to the United States.\" Scheuer sees the extraordinary renditions carried out by the US government as being hindered by the European Union: \"The extraordinary rendition programme should not be destroyed because of \"venal and prize hungry reporters, grandstanding politicians and sanctimonious Europeans.\"\n\nIn the mini series, \"The Looming Tower\", he is the basis for the character of Martin Schmidt. On the show, he is portrayed as being one of two people primarily responsible for the lack of intelligence sharing between the CIA and the FBI in the lead up to 9/11.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39700921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39700921", "title": "Nicole Aunapu Mann", "text": "Nicole Aunapu Mann\n\nNicole Victoria Aunapu Mann (born June 27, 1977) is an American test pilot and NASA astronaut. She is an F/A-18 Hornet pilot, and a graduate of the US Naval Academy, Stanford University and the US Naval Test Pilot School. She has over 2,500 flight hours in 25 types of aircraft, 200 carrier landings, and has flown 47 combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Mann completed astronaut training in 2015, and was assigned in August 2018 to Boe-CFT, the first test flight of the Boeing CST-100 Starliner.\n\nNicole Victoria Aunapu was born on June 27, 1977 to Howard and Victoria Aunapu, and grew up in Penngrove, California. In 1995, she graduated from Rancho Cotate High School in Rohnert Park, California. Mann attended the US Naval Academy, and graduated in 1999 with a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering. After commissioning in the US Navy, she attended graduate school at Stanford University, where she received a Master of Science degree in mechanical engineering, specializing in fluid mechanics.\n\nAfter completing graduate school, Mann attended The Basic School, and began flight training at NAS Pensacola. She was awarded her Naval Aviator wings in 2002, and completed training for the F/A-18 Hornet in VFA-106 at NAS Oceana. Mann joined VMFA-251 at MCAS Beaufort, and deployed twice on the USS Enterprise with CVW-1 in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. She was a member of Class 135 at the US Naval Test Pilot School, and served as an F/A-18 Test Pilot in VX-23 at NAS Patuxent River. At the time of her selection as an astronaut candidate, she was Joint Mission Planning System Expeditionary Integrated Product Team Lead at PMA-281.\n\nIn 2013, Man was selected as one of the eight members of NASA Astronaut Group 21. She completed her training in 2015, and has since served as a T-38 Talon Safety and Training Officer, and was the Assistant to the Chief of Exploration. She worked on development of the Orion spacecraft, Space Launch System, and the Exploration Ground Systems. In August 2018 she was assigned to Boe-CFT, the first test flight of the Boeing CST-100 Starliner.\n\nMann and her husband, Travis, have a son, and live in Houston, Texas.\n\nAs a student at the Naval Academy, Mann played soccer, and was an Academic All American. She was a Trident Scholar, and a Distinguished Graduate. During her military career, she received two Air Medals, two Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medals, and two Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medals. She was the Honor Graduate in her US Naval Test Pilot School class. She received the NASA 2015 Stephen D. Thorne Safety Award, and the 2017 Jerry Yeagley Award for Exceptional Personal Achievement. Mann is a member of the Society of Experimental Test Pilots, Tailhook Association, US Naval Test Pilot School Alumni Association, United States Naval Academy Alumni Association, received the Leroy Grumman \"Best Paper\" Award at the East Coast Society of Experimental Test Pilots Symposium.\n\n"}
{"id": "29618782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29618782", "title": "Otto Liiv", "text": "Otto Liiv\n\nOtto Liiv ( in Narva – 10 December 1942 in Tartu) was an Estonian historian and archivist. He was one of the founders of Estonian archival science as well as one of the most prolific and respected historians in Estonia.\n\nLiiv attended school in Narva and Tallinn and enrolled at the University of Tartu in 1923 and graduated in 1927. He was the head of the Estonian State Central Archives from 1929 to 1942. He also lectured at the University of Tartu and was the chief editor of the journal \"Ajalooline Ajakiri\". Liiv had an academic interest in the history of the 17th century Estonia and contributed to the books \"The Economic History of Estonia\" in 1937 and the third volume of \"History of Estonia\" in 1940.\n\nIn 2005, Eesti Post issued a commemorative Stamp cancellation marking the 100th anniversary of Otto Liiv's birth.\n"}
{"id": "20254347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20254347", "title": "Paloma Fernández", "text": "Paloma Fernández\n\nPaloma Fernández Pérez (born Barcelona, 1964), is Professor of economic and business history at the University of Barcelona. Licenciada en Geografia e Historia (University of Barcelona, 1987), Master of Arts in History (University of California at Berkeley, 1989), and Ph.D. in History (University of California at Berkeley, 1994).\n\nHer bachelor's dissertation under the supervision of Carlos Martínez-Shaw dealt with the history of economic press in Spain in the 18th century. Her Ph.D. dissertation Family and Marriage Around Colonial Trade in Eighteenth-Century Cádiz, under the supervision of Richard Herr, was published in Spanish as El rostro familiar de la metrópoli. Redes de parentesco y lazos mercantiles en Cádiz 1700-1812 (Madrid: Siglo XXI de España Editores, 1997).\n\nShe has received several fellowships and awards from Spanish, U.S. and British institutions: La Caixa/Indiana Fellowship to study a M.A. in the U.S. (1988), Fulbright Fellowship to study a Ph.D. in History in the U.S. (1989), P.E.O. Fellowship Award (1989), Mellon Write-Up Dissertation Grant from U.C. Berkeley (1990), Travel grants from U.I.M.P. in 1987, Catalan government travel grants in 1989, Instituto de la Empresa Familiar Travel Grant in 1996, Fundación Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria Grant for Research in Economics and Business Studies (2003), and several public competitive research projects from the Spanish Ministerio de Educación y Ciencia y Ministerio de Ciencia e Innovación (2005 and 2008). The University of Lancaster in the UK has nominated her Honorary Visiting Fellow in 2008 for her numerous projects of cooperation in research and teaching initiatives with several members of its Institute of Entrepreneurship and Entrepreneurial Development.\n\nFernández Pérez has studied the influence of personal networks in European business in the transition from the early modern period to modern times, in diverse economic sectors (colonial trade, capital intensive industries), and regions (Andalusia, Catalonia). Her focus has been family businesses and how family-owned and managed firms have been resilient and enduring forms of reducing uncertainty and transaction costs across borders and time. Alone or in collaborative articles and books Fernández Pérez has presented a long-term overview of evolution and transformation of relevant strategies of large Spanish family firms regarding: gender roles, training and education, professionalization of management, internationalization, networking and collective action.\n\nShe has also published Un siglo y medio de trefilería en España. Rivière y Moreda (Barcelona, Trivium 2004), has coedited with P. Pascual Del metal al motor. Innovación y atraso en la historia de la industria metalmecánica española (Bilbao, FBBVA 2007), and coedited with M. B. Rose Innovation and Entrepreneurial Networks in Europe (Oxford, Routledge 2009).\n\nFernández Pérez has organized several panel sessions for the Joint Business History Conference-European Business History Association conference in Lowell Mass. (2003) and -if accepted- in the forthcoming conference in Milano (2009, with J. Vidal). She is member of the Asociación Española de Historia Económica, the Society for Spanish and Portuguese Historical Studies, and the European Business History Association. She has been refereeing articles and/or reviewing books for Revista de Historia Industrial, Investigaciones de Historia Económica, Revista de Historia Económica, Business History, and Enterprise&Society. She is member of the council board of the Centre of Studies in Economics and Economic History Antoni de Capmany from Universitat de Barcelona, and of the Entrepreneurial History Discussion Papers website.\n\nSome of her recent articles are:\n"}
{"id": "2481666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2481666", "title": "Parabasis", "text": "Parabasis\n\nIn Greek comedy, the parabasis (plural parabases; , plural: ) is a point in the play when all of the actors leave the stage and the chorus is left to address the audience directly. The chorus partially or completely abandons its dramatic role, to step forward (parabasis) and talk to the audience on a topic completely irrelevant to the subject of the play.\n\nA parabasis usually consists of three songs (S) alternating with three speeches (s) (or recitatives) in the order S-s-S-s-S-s. The first speech, or parabasis proper - generally in anapaest - often ends with a passage which is to be rattled off very quickly (theoretically in one breath - called a \"πνῖγος – pnigos\").\n\n\n\nThe chorus in the parabasis sometimes uses its own voice, sometimes that of the play’s author, to address the audience. How far the latter is to be taken as ‘authentic’ is a matter for debate. The old view was that Aristophanes is speaking directly to his fellow-Athenians in the parabasis; and that as a result, as Northrop Frye put it, “his opinions on every subject are written all over his plays”. A postmodern interpretation would see the authorial voice as metatheatrical, offering a parody of rhetorical debating points, rather than unmediated criticism.\n\nThe parabasis is exclusively a feature of Old Comedy, and its decline can be charted in the plays of Aristophanes. The second parabasis is gradually abandoned, the chorus ceases to speak out of character in the parabasis itself, and finally the latter is abandoned altogether. \n\nWhere the diminishment in the role of the chorus was traditionally linked to the financial pressures of wartime, more recently Stephen Halliwell has preferred to see the decline in terms of theatrical evolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53158903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53158903", "title": "Paul Lovejoy", "text": "Paul Lovejoy\n\nPaul Lovejoy is a Canadian historian in African history and African diaspora history, currently a Distinguished Research Professor and Canada Research Chair at York University.\n"}
{"id": "124622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=124622", "title": "Pittsburg, New Hampshire", "text": "Pittsburg, New Hampshire\n\nPittsburg is a town in Coos County, New Hampshire, United States. The population was 869 at the 2010 census. It is the northernmost town in New Hampshire and the largest town by area in the state – and in New England as well – more than twice the size of the next largest town, Lincoln. U.S. Route 3 is the only major highway in the town, although the northern terminus of New Hampshire Route 145 also lies within Pittsburg.\n\nPittsburg is part of the Berlin, New Hampshire–Vermont Micropolitan Statistical Area.\n\nPittsburg derives its name from William Pitt, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. Prior to its incorporation in 1840, the area was settled c. 1810 and known as the Territory of Indian Stream. It had the unique distinction of having been its own microstate briefly during the 1830s, called the Republic of Indian Stream, due to an ambiguous boundary between the United States and Canada.\n\nPittsburg shares an international border with Québec province, Canada to its west and north, and borders the states of Maine (to the east) and Vermont (a very small portion to the southwest). Directly to the south is Clarksville. Pittsburg is the only New Hampshire municipality to border Canada, the only one that borders both Maine and Vermont, the only one to share a land border with Vermont, and the only town entirely north of the 45th parallel. Pittsburg contains the only part of New Hampshire west of the Connecticut River, as that river defines the Vermont state line from Clarksville southward. The Pittsburg-Chartierville Border Crossing, New Hampshire's only Canadian border crossing, is located in the town, at the northern terminus of U.S. Route 3. The western edge of Pittsburg is defined by Halls Stream, being the \"northwesternmost headwaters of the Connecticut River\", which defined (ambiguously) the border in the Treaty of Paris of 1783.\n\nContained within the boundaries of Pittsburg are the Connecticut Lakes, which form the beginning of the Connecticut River. Early maps (e.g. 1854) also show several grants that were incorporated into the eastern edge of Pittsburg, including \"Carlisle No. 1\", \"Webster/Carlisle No. 2\" and \"Hubbards No. 3\", all north of Atkinson and Gilmanton Academy Grant.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , the largest of any municipality incorporated as a town in both New Hampshire and New England. A total of is land and is water, the latter comprising 3.37% of the town.\n\nThe highest point in Pittsburg is the summit of Stub Hill, at above sea level. Mount Magalloway, above sea level, is a prominent summit reachable by hiking trail.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 867 people, 386 households, and 264 families residing in the town. The population density was 3.1 people per square mile (1.2/km²). There were 1,281 housing units at an average density of 4.5 per square mile (1.8/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 98.27% White, 0.12% African American, 0.58% Native American, 0.23% from other races, and 0.81% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.46% of the population.\nThere were 386 households out of which 22.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 59.1% were married couples living together, 4.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 31.6% were non-families. 26.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.24 and the average family size was 2.67.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 18.9% under the age of 18, 5.4% from 18 to 24, 23.8% from 25 to 44, 32.9% from 45 to 64, and 19.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 46 years. For every 100 females, there were 105.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 105.6 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $38,516, and the median income for a family was $42,500. Males had a median income of $31,250 versus $25,455 for females. The per capita income for the town was $17,703. About 5.0% of families and 7.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 7.8% of those under age 18 and 11.5% of those age 65 or over.\n\nIn 2014 the largest ancestry groups reported in Pittsburg were English (30.9%), French or French Canadian (21.0%), Irish (9.8%), and \"American\" (9.2%).\n\nPittsburg is a mecca for snowmobile and ATV enthusiasts year round. In the winter months thousands of people flock to Pittsburg to take advantage of the state-funded and club-supported and maintained trails that can bring snowmobilers from anywhere in the state of New Hampshire to Pittsburg, with access to the states of Maine, Vermont and the border crossing to Canada. Some of the same trails are used in the summer for ATVs. Check the Pittsburg Ridge Runners Snowmobile Club and the Great North Woods Riders ATV Club web sites for further information. Also, for weather information specific to the First Connecticut Lake in Pittsburg check John's NH Weather for current conditions, forecast and much more.\n\nAnother focus in the area for tourists is fishing and hunting. Pittsburg is home to the four Connecticut Lakes, Back Lake, part of Lake Francis, and numerous smaller water bodies. The lakes are annually stocked with fish and allow for weekends of good fishing. The area is known for fly fishing. Two sections of the Connecticut River are fly fishing only, including the \"Trophy Stretch\". The Connecticut Lakes Region has attracted anglers and hunters since the turn of the century. There are maps on the local snowmobile club's website that can be helpful in planning a trip to the area. It shows all trails in Pittsburg as well as roads and access points to the lakes and rivers.\n\nLake Francis State Park allows for lakeside camping, fishing, and canoeing on the lake or the Connecticut River. Deer Mountain Campground enables camping and picnicking on the Connecticut River.\n\nPittsburg will fall within the path of totality during the solar eclipse of April 8, 2024\n\n\n"}
{"id": "261479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261479", "title": "Quipu", "text": "Quipu\n\nQuipu (also spelled khipu), or talking knots, were recording devices fashioned from strings historically used by a number of cultures in the region of Andean South America.\n\nKnotted strings were used by many other cultures such as the ancient Chinese and native Hawaiians, but such practices should not be confused with the quipu, which refers only to the Andean device. \n\nA \"quipu\" usually consisted of cotton or camelid fiber strings. The Inca people used them for collecting data and keeping records, monitoring tax obligations, properly collecting census records, calendrical information, and for military organization. The cords stored numeric and other values encoded as knots, often in a base ten positional system. A \"quipu\" could have only a few or thousands of cords. The configuration of the \"quipus\" has been \"compared to string mops.\" Archaeological evidence has also shown the use of finely carved wood as a supplemental, and perhaps more sturdy, base to which the color-coded cords would be attached. A relatively small number have survived.\n\nObjects that can be identified unambiguously as quipus first appear in the archaeological record in the first millennium AD. They subsequently played a key part in the administration of the Kingdom of Cusco and later Tawantinsuyu, the empire controlled by the Inca ethnic group, flourishing across the Andes from c. 1100 to 1532 AD. As the region was subsumed under the invading Spanish Empire, the use of the quipu faded from use, to be replaced by European writing and numeral systems. However, in several villages, quipu continued to be important items for the local community, albeit for ritual rather than practical use. It is unclear as to where and how many intact quipus still exist, as many have been stored away in mausoleums\n\n\"Quipu\" is the Spanish spelling and the most common spelling in English. \"Khipu\" (pronounced , plural: \"khipukuna\") is the word for \"knot\" in Cusco Quechua. In most Quechua varieties, the term is \"kipu\".\n\nThe word \"khipu\", meaning \"knot\" or \"to knot\", comes from the Quechua language word: quipu, 1704, the \"lingua franca and language of administration\" of Tawantin Suyu.\n\nMost information recorded on the \"quipus\" consists of numbers in a decimal system.\n\nIn the early years of the Spanish conquest of Peru, Spanish officials often relied on the quipus to settle disputes over local tribute payments or goods production. \"Quipucamayocs\" (Quechua \"khipu kamayuq\" \"khipu specialist\", plural: \"khipu kamayuqkuna\") could be summoned to court, where their bookkeeping was recognised as valid documentation of past payments.\n\nSome of the knots, as well as other features, such as color, are thought to represent non-numeric information, which has not been deciphered. It is generally thought that the system did not include phonetic symbols analogous to letters of the alphabet. However Gary Urton has suggested that the \"quipus\" used a binary system which could record phonological or logographic data.\n\nTo date, no link has yet been found between a \"quipu\" and Quechua, the native language of the Peruvian Andes. This suggests that \"quipus\" are not a glottographic writing system and have no phonetic referent. Frank Salomon at the University of Wisconsin has argued that \"quipus\" are actually a semasiographic language, a system of representative symbolssuch as music notation or numeralsthat relay information but are not directly related to the speech sounds of a particular language. The Khipu Database Project (KDP), begun by Gary Urton, may have already decoded the first word from a quipu–the name of a village, Puruchuco–which Urton believes was represented by a three-number sequence, similar to a ZIP code. If this conjecture is correct, \"quipus\" are the only known example of a complex language recorded in a 3-D system.\n\nMarcia and Robert Ascher, after having analyzed several hundred \"quipus\", have shown that most information on \"quipus\" is numeric, and these numbers can be read. Each cluster of knots is a digit, and there are three main types of knots: simple overhand knots; \"long knots\", consisting of an overhand knot with one or more additional turns; and figure-eight knots. In the Aschers’ system, a fourth type of knot—figure-of-eight knot with an extra twist—is referred to as \"EE\". A number is represented as a sequence of knot clusters in base 10.\n\nFor example, if 4s represents four simple knots, 3L represents a long knot with three turns, E represents a figure-of-eight knot and X represents a space:\n\nThis reading can be confirmed by a fortunate fact: \"quipus\" regularly contain sums in a systematic way. For instance, a cord may contain the sum of the next \"n\" cords, and this relationship is repeated throughout the \"quipu\". Sometimes there are sums of sums as well. Such a relationship would be very improbable if the knots were incorrectly read.\n\nSome data items are not numbers but what Ascher and Ascher call \"number labels\". They are still composed of digits, but the resulting number seems to be used as a code, much as we use numbers to identify individuals, places, or things. Lacking the context for individual quipus, it is difficult to guess what any given code might mean. Other aspects of a \"quipu\" could have communicated information as well: color-coding, relative placement of cords, spacing, and the structure of cords and sub-cords.\n\nSome have argued that far more than numeric information is present and that \"quipus\" are a writing system. This would be an especially important discovery as there is no surviving record of written Quechua predating the Spanish invasion. Possible reasons for this apparent absence of a written language include an actual absence of a written language, destruction by the Spanish of all written records, or the successful concealment by the Inca peoples of those records. Making the matter even more complex, the Inca 'kept separate \"khipu\" for each province, on which a pendant string recorded the number of people belonging to each category.' This creates yet another step in the process of decryption in addition to the Spanish attempts at eradicating the system. Historians Edward Hyams and George Ordish believe quipus were recording devices, similar to musical notation, in that the notes on the page present basic information, and the performer would then bring those details to life.\n\nIn 2003, while checking the geometric signs that appear on drawings of Inca dresses from the \"First New Chronicle and Good Government\", written by Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala in 1615, William Burns Glynn found a pattern that seems to decipher some words from \"quipus\" by matching knots to colors of strings.\n\nThe August 12, 2005, edition of the journal \"Science\" includes a report titled \"Khipu Accounting in Ancient Peru\" by anthropologist Gary Urton and mathematician Carrie J. Brezine. Their work may represent the first identification of a \"quipu\" element for a non-numeric concept, a sequence of three figure-of-eight knots at the start of a \"quipu\" that seems to be a unique signifier. It could be a toponym for the city of Puruchuco (near Lima), or the name of the \"quipu\" keeper who made it, or its subject matter, or even a time designator.\n\nBeynon-Davies considers \"quipus\" as a sign system and develops an interpretation of their physical structure in terms of the concept of a data system.\n\n\"Khipu kamayuqkuna\" (knot makers/keepers, i.e., the former Inka record keepers) supplied colonial administrators with a variety and quantity of information pertaining to censuses, tribute, ritual and calendrical organization, genealogies, and other such matters from Inka times. Performing a number of statistical tests for quipu sample VA 42527, one study led by Alberto Sáez-Rodríguez discovered that the distribution and patterning of S- and Z-knots can organize the information system from a real star map.\n\nLaura Minelli, a professor of pre-Columbian studies at the University of Bologna, has discovered something which she believed to be a seventeenth-century Jesuit manuscript that contains detailed information on literary \"quipus\". This manuscript consists of nine folios with Spanish, Latin, and ciphered Italian texts. Owned by the family of Neapolitan historian Clara Miccinelli, the manuscript also includes a wool \"quipu\" fragment. Miccinelli believes that the text was written by two Italian Jesuit missionaries, Joan Antonio Cumis and Giovanni Anello Oliva, around 1610–1638, and Blas Valera, a mestizo Jesuit sometime before 1618. Along with the details of reading literary \"quipus\", the documents also discuss the events and people of the Spanish conquest of Peru. However, the authenticity of these documents is highly questioned, and they seem to be inspired freely by a 1751 writing of Prince San Severo.\n\nIn the text of these documents, Cumis states that there are \"quipus\" which accounted for uses other than accounting. Since so many \"quipus\" were burned by the Spanish, very few remained for Cumis to analyze. As related in the manuscript, the word Pacha Kamaq, the Inca deity of earth and time, was used many times in these \"quipus\", where the syllables were represented by symbols formed in the knots. Following the analysis of the use of \"Pacha Kamaq\", the manuscript offers a list of many words present in \"quipus\". Bruce Mannheim, the director of the Center for Latin American Studies at the University of Michigan, and Colgate University's Gary Urton, question its origin and authenticity.\n\n\"Quipucamayocs\" (Quechua \"khipu kamayuq\", \"khipu-authority\"), the accountants of Tawantin Suyu, created and deciphered the quipu knots. \"Quipucamayocs\" could carry out basic arithmetic operations, such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. They kept track of mita, a form of taxation. The \"quipucamayocs\" also tracked the type of labor being performed, maintained a record of economic output, and ran a census that counted everyone from infants to \"old blind men over 80\". The system was also used to keep track of the calendar. According to Guaman Poma, \"quipucamayocs\" could \"read\" the quipus with their eyes closed.\n\n\"Quipucamayocs\" were from a class of people, \"males, fifty to sixty\", and were not the only members of Inca society to use quipus. Inca historians used quipus when telling the Spanish about Tawantin Suyu history (whether they only recorded important numbers or actually contained the story itself is unknown). Members of the ruling class were usually taught to read quipus in the Inca equivalent of a university, the \"yachay wasi\" (literally, \"house of teaching\"), in the third year of schooling, for the higher classes who would eventually become the bureaucracy.\n\nIn 1532, the Spanish Empire's conquest of the Andean region began, with several Spanish conquerors making note of the existence of quipus in their written records about the invasion. The earliest known example comes from Hernando Pizarro, the brother of the Spanish military leader Francisco Pizarro, who recorded an encounter that he and his men had in 1533 as they traveled along the royal road from the highlands to the central coast. It was during this journey that they encountered several quipu keepers, later relating that these keepers \"untied some of the knots which they had in the deposits section [of the khipu], and they [re-]tied them in another section [of the khipu].\"\n\nThe Spanish authorities quickly suppressed the use of \"quipus\".\n\nThe \"quipu\" system operated as both a method of calculation and social organization, regulating regional governance and land use. While evidence for the latter is still under the critical eye of scholars around the world, the very fact that they are kept to this day without any confirmed level of fluent literacy in the system is testament to its historical 'moral authority.' Today, \"khipu\" is regarded as a powerful symbol of heritage, only 'unfurled' and handled by 'pairs of [contemporary] dignitaries,' as the system and its 'construction embed' modern 'cultural knowledge.' Ceremonies in which they are 'curated, even though they can no longer be read,' is even further support for the case of societal honor and significance associated with the quipu. Even today, 'the knotted cords must be present and displayed when village officers leave or begin service, and draping the cords over the incoming office holders instantiates the moral and political authority of the past.' These examples are indicative of how the \"quipu\" system is not only fundamental mathematically or linguistically for the original Inca, but also for the cultural preservation of the original empire's descendants.\n\nAnthropologists and archaeologists working in Peru have highlighted two known cases where \"quipus\" have continued to be used by contemporary communities, albeit as ritual items seen as \"communal patrimony\" rather than as devices for recording information. The khipu system, being the efficient method of social management it was for the Inca, is also a link to the Cuzco census, as it was one of the primary methods of population calculation. This also has allowed historians and anthropologists to understand both the census and the \"decimal hierarchy\" system the Inca used, and that they were actually 'initiated together,' due to the fact that they were 'conceptually so closely linked.'\n\nIn 1994, the American cultural anthropologist Frank Salomon conducted a study in the Peruvian village of Tupicocha, where \"quipus\" are still an important part of the social life of the village. As of 1994, this was the only village where quipus with a structure similar to pre-Columbian \"quipus\" were still used for official local government record-keeping and functions, although the villagers did not associate their quipus with Inca artifacts.\n\nThe villagers of San Cristóbal de Rapaz (known as Rapacinos), located in the Province of Oyón, keep a quipu in an old ceremonial building, the \"Kaha Wayi\", that is itself surrounded by a walled architectural complex. Also within the complex is a disused communal storehouse, known as the \"Pasa Qullqa\", which was formerly used to protect and redistribute the local crops, and some Rapacinos believe that the \"quipu\" was once a record of this process of collecting and redistributing food. The entire complex was important to the villagers, being \"the seat of traditional control over land use, and the centre of communication with the deified mountains who control weather\".\n\nIn 2004, the archaeologist Renata Peeters (of the UCL Institute of Archaeology in London) and the cultural anthropologist Frank Salomon (of the University of Wisconsin) undertook a project to conserve both the \"quipus\" in Rapaz and the building that it was in, due to their increasingly poor condition.\n\nThe archaeologist Gary Urton noted in his 2003 book \"Signs of the Inka Khipu\" that he estimated \"from my own studies and from the published works of other scholars that there are about 600 extant \"quipu\" in public and private collections around the world.\"\n\nAccording to the Khipu Database Project undertaken by Harvard University professor Gary Urton and his colleague Carrie Brezine, 751 quipus have been reported to exist across the globe. Their whereabouts range from Europe to North and South America. Most are housed in museums outside of their native countries, however some reside in their native locations under the care of the descendants of those who made the knot records. A table of the largest collections is shown below.\n\nWhile patrimonial quipu collections have not been accounted for in this database, their numbers are likely to be unknown. One prominent patrimonial collection held by the Rapazians of Rapaz, Peru, was recently researched by University of Wisconsin–Madison professor, Frank Salomon. The Anthropology/Archaeology department at the University of California at Santa Barbara also holds one \"quipu\".\n\n\"Quipus\" are made of fibers, either spun and plied thread such as wool or hair from alpaca, llama, guanaco or vicuña, though are also commonly made of cellulose like cotton. The knotted strings of \"quipus\" were often made with an \"elaborate system of knotted cords, dyed in various colors, the significance of which was known to the magistrates\". Fading of color, natural or dyed, cannot be reversed, and may indicate further damage to the fibers. Colors can darken if attacked by dust or by certain dyes and mordants. \"Quipus\" have been found with adornments, such as animal shells, attached to the cords, and these non-textile materials may require additional preservation measures.\n\n\"Quipus\" are now preserved using techniques that will minimise their future degradation. Museums, archives and special collections have adopted preservation guidelines from textile practices.\n\nEnvironmental controls are used to monitor and control temperature, humidity and light exposure of storage areas. As with all textiles, cool, clean, dry and dark environments are most suitable. The heating, ventilating and air conditioning, or HVAC systems, of buildings that house quipu knot records are usually automatically regulated. Relative humidity should be 60% or lower, with low temperatures, as high temperatures can damage the fibres and make them brittle. Damp conditions and high humidity can damage protein-rich material. Textiles suffer damage from ultraviolet (UV) light, which can include fading and weakening of the fibrous material. When quipus are on display, their exposure to ambient conditions is usually minimized and closely monitored.\n\nDamage can occur during storage. The more accessible the items are during storage, the greater the chance of early detection. Storing quipus horizontally on boards covered with a neutral pH paper (paper that is neither acid or alkaline) to prevent potential acid transfer is a preservation technique that extends the life of a collection. The fibers can be abraded by rubbing against each other or, for those attached to sticks or rods, by their own weight if held in an upright position. Extensive handling of \"quipus\" can also increase the risk of further damage.\n\n\"Quipus\" are also closely monitored for mold, as well as insects and their larvae. As with all textiles, these are major problems. Fumigation may not be recommended for fiber textiles displaying mold or insect infestations, although it is common practice for ridding paper of mold and insects.\n\nConservators in the field of library science have the skills to handle a variety of situations. Even though some quipus have hundreds of cords, each cord should be assessed and treated individually. \"Quipu\" cords can be \"mechanically cleaned with brushes, small tools and light vacuuming\". Just as the application of fungicides is not recommended to rid quipus of mold, neither is the use of solvents to clean them.\n\nEven when people have tried to preserve \"quipus\", corrective care may still be required. If \"quipus\" are to be conserved close to their place of origin, local camelid or wool fibres in natural colors can be obtained and used to mend breaks and splits in the cords. Rosa Choque Gonzales and Rosalia Choque Gonzales, conservators from southern Peru, worked to conserve the Rapaz patrimonial quipus in the Andean village of Rapaz, Peru. These \"quipus\" had undergone repair in the past, so this conservator team used new local camelid and wool fibers to spin around the area under repair in a similar fashion to the earlier repairs found on the quipu.\n\nWhen Gary Urton, professor of Anthropology at Harvard, was asked \"Are they [quipus] fragile?\", he answered, \"some of them are, and you can't touch them – they would break or turn into dust. Many are quite well preserved, and you can actually study them without doing them any harm. Of course, any time you touch an ancient fabric like that, you're doing some damage, but these strings are generally quite durable.\"\n\nRuth Shady, a Peruvian archeologist, has discovered a \"quipu\" or perhaps \"proto-quipu\" believed to be around 5,000 years old in the coastal city of Caral. It was in quite good condition, with \"brown cotton strings wound around thin sticks\", along with \"a series of offerings, including mysterious fiber balls of different sizes wrapped in 'nets' and pristine reed baskets. Piles of raw cotton – uncombed and containing seeds, though turned a dirty brown by the ages – and a ball of cotton thread\" were also found preserved. The good condition of these articles can be attributed to the arid condition of Caral.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5287573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5287573", "title": "Religious views of Adolf Hitler", "text": "Religious views of Adolf Hitler\n\nAdolf Hitler's religious beliefs have been a matter of debate; the wide consensus of historians consider him to have been irreligious, anti-Christian, anti-clerical and scientistic. In light of evidence such as his fierce criticism and vocal rejection of the tenets of Christianity, numerous private statements to confidants denouncing Christianity as a harmful superstition, and his strenuous efforts to reduce the influence and independence of Christianity in Germany after he came to power, Hitler's major academic biographers conclude that he was irreligious and an opponent of Christianity. Historian Laurence Rees found no evidence that \"Hitler, in his personal life, ever expressed belief in the basic tenets of the Christian church\". Ernst Hanfstaengl, a friend from his early days in politics, says Hitler \"was to all intents and purposes an atheist by the time I got to know him\". However, historians such as Richard Weikart and Alan Bullock doubt the assessment that he was a true atheist, suggesting that despite his dislike of Christianity he still clung to a form of spiritual belief. \n\nHitler was born to a practising Catholic mother, and was baptised in the Roman Catholic Church. From a young age, he expressed disbelief and hostility to Christianity. But in 1904, acquiescing to his mother's wish, he was confirmed at the Roman Catholic Cathedral in Linz, Austria, where the family lived. According to John Willard Toland, witnesses indicate that Hitler's confirmation sponsor had to \"drag the words out of him ... almost as though the whole confirmation was repugnant to him\". Rissmann notes that, according to several witnesses who lived with Hitler in a men's home in Vienna, Hitler never again attended Mass or received the sacraments after leaving home. \nSeveral eyewitnesses who lived with Hitler while he was in his late teens and early-to-mid 20s in Vienna state that he never attended church after leaving home at 18. \n\nIn Hitler's early political statements, he attempted to express himself to the German public as a Christian. In his book \"Mein Kampf\" and in public speeches prior to and in the early years of his rule, he described himself as a Christian. Hitler and the Nazi party promoted \"Positive Christianity\", a movement which rejected most traditional Christian doctrines such as the divinity of Jesus, as well as Jewish elements such as the Old Testament. In one widely quoted remark, he described Jesus as an \"Aryan fighter\" who struggled against \"the power and pretensions of the corrupt Pharisees\" and Jewish materialism.\n\nWhile a small minority of historians accept these publicly stated views as genuine expressions of his spirituality, the vast majority believe that Hitler was skeptical of religion and anti-Christian, but recognized that he could only be elected and preserve his political power if he feigned a commitment to and belief in Christianity, which the overwhelming majority of Germans believed in. Privately, Hitler repeatedly deprecated Christianity, and told confidants that his reluctance to make public attacks on the Church was not a matter of principle, but a pragmatic political move. In his private diaries, Goebbels wrote in April 1941 that though Hitler was \"a fierce opponent\" of the Vatican and Christianity, \"he forbids me to leave the church. For tactical reasons.\" Hitler's remarks to confidants, as described in the Goebbels Diaries, the memoirs of Albert Speer, and transcripts of Hitler's private conversations recorded by Martin Bormann in \"Hitler's Table Talk\", are further evidence of his irreligious and anti-Christian beliefs; these sources record a number of private remarks in which Hitler ridicules Christian doctrine as absurd, contrary to scientific advancement, and socially destructive. \n\nOnce in office, Hitler and his regime sought to reduce the influence of Christianity on society. From the mid-1930s, his government was increasingly dominated by militant anti-church proponents like Goebbels, Bormann, Himmler, Rosenberg and Heydrich whom Hitler appointed to key posts. These anti-church radicals were generally permitted or encouraged to perpetrate the Nazi persecutions of the churches. The regime launched an effort toward coordination of German Protestants under a unified Protestant Reich Church (but this was resisted by the Confessing Church), and moved early to eliminate political Catholicism. Hitler agreed to the Reich concordat with the Vatican, but then routinely ignored it, and permitted persecutions of the Catholic Church. Smaller religious minorities faced harsher repression, with the Jews of Germany expelled for extermination on the grounds of Nazi racial ideology. Jehovah's Witnesses were ruthlessly persecuted for refusing both military service and allegiance to Hitler's movement. Hitler said he anticipated a coming collapse of Christianity in the wake of scientific advances, and that Nazism and religion could not co-exist long term. Although he was prepared to delay conflicts for political reasons, historians conclude that he ultimately intended the destruction of Christianity in Germany, or at least its distortion or subjugation to a Nazi outlook.\n\nAcademic historians who specialize on the life and thought of Hitler have concluded he was irreligious and anti-Christian.\n\nAlan Bullock was an early influential Hitler expert who wrote important biographies of the dictator in the 1950s and 1960s. He wrote that Hitler had been raised Catholic, and though impressed by its organizational powers, Hitler repudiated Christianity on what he considered to be rational and moral grounds. Bullock considered Hitler to be a rationalist and materialist, with no feeling for the spiritual or emotional side of human existence. Bullock wrote that Hitler believed neither in \"God nor conscience\" but found both \"justification and absolution\" in a view of himself that echoed Hegel's that heroes were above conventional morality and the role of \"world-historical individuals\" as the agents by which the \"Will of the World Spirit\", the plan of Providence is carried out. Following his early military successes, Hitler \"abandoned himself entirely to megalomania\" and the \"sin of \"hybris\"\", an exaggerated self-pride, believing himself to be more than a man. Once the war was over, wrote Bullock, Hitler wanted to root out and destroy the influence of the churches, though until then he would be circumspect for political reasons:\n\nAt the turn of the century, leading Hitler expert Ian Kershaw wrote an influential biography of Hitler which used new sources to expound on Hitler's religious views. He too concluded that Hitler was anti-Christian and irreligious, but noted how Hitler's religious policy was restrained by political considerations. Still, Hitler's hostility to Christianity contributed to the efforts of his underlings to suppress that religion in Nazi Germany: \"However much Hitler on some occasions claimed to want a respite in the conflict [with the churches], his own inflammatory comments gave his underlings all the license they needed to turn up the heat on the 'Church Struggle', confident that they were working towards the Fuhrer\" noted Kershaw:\n\nBritish historian Richard J. Evans, who writes primarily on Nazi Germany and World War II, believes that Hitler believed in the long run that National Socialism and religion would not be able to co-exist, and that he stressed repeatedly that Nazism was a secular ideology, founded on modern science: \"Science, he declared, would easily destroy the last remaining vestiges of superstition' Germany could not tolerate the intervention of foreign influences such as the Pope and 'Priests', he said, were 'black bugs', 'abortions in black cassocks'.\" \n\nBritish historian Richard Overy, biographer of Hitler, sees Hitler as having been neither a practising Christian, nor a thorough atheist, but also notes the sentiment that Nazism and religion could not co-exist long term: \"Both Stalin and Hitler wanted a neutered religion, subservient to the state, while the slow programme of scientific revelation destroyed the foundation of religious myth.\" Overy writes of Hitler as skeptical of all religious belief, but politically prudent enough not to \"trumpet his scientific views publicly\", partly in order to maintain the distinction between his own movement and the godlessness of Soviet Communism . In 2004, he wrote: \n\nHistorian Percy Ernst Schramm, describes Hitler's personal religious creed, after his rejection of the Christian beliefs of his youth, as \"a variant of the monism so common before the First World War\". According to Schramm, These views were indirectly influenced by the work of Ernst Haeckel and his disciple, Wilhelm Bölsche.\n\nSchramm quotes Dr. Hanskarl von Hasselbach, one of Hitler's personal physicians, as saying that Hitler was a \"religious person, or at least one who was struggling with religious clarity\". According to von Hasselbach, Hitler did not share Martin Bormann's conception that Nazi ceremonies could become a substitute for church ceremonies, and was aware of the religious needs of the masses. \"He went on for hours discussing the possibility of bridging the confessional division of the German people and helping them find a religion appropriate to their character and modern man's understanding of the world.\"\n\nHitler's personal conception of God was as \"Providence\" (divine providence). For instance, when he survived the assassination attempt of July 20, 1944, he ascribed it to Providence saving him to pursue his tasks. In fact, as time went on, Hitler's conception of Providence became more and more intertwined with his belief in his own inability to make an error of judgment. Alfred Jodl stated at Nuremberg that Hitler had \"an almost mystical conviction of his infallibility as leader of the nation and of the war\". Another of his physicians, Dr. Karl Brandt, said that Hitler saw himself as a \"tool of Providence. He was ... consumed by the desire to give the German people everything and to help them out of their distress. He was possessed by the thought that this was his task and that only he could fulfill it.\"\n\nBBC historian Laurence Rees characterises Hitler's relationship to religion as one of opportunism and pragmatism: \"his relationship in public to Christianity—indeed his relationship to religion in general—was opportunistic. There is no evidence that Hitler himself, in his personal life, ever expressed any individual belief in the basic tenets of the Christian church\". Considering the religious allusions found in \"Mein Kampf\", Rees writes that \"the most coherent reading of \"Mein Kampf\"\" is that Hitler was prepared to believe in an initial creator God, but did \"not accept the conventional Christian vision of heaven and hell, nor the survival of an individual 'soul'.\"\n\nMax Domarus has written that Hitler replaced belief in the Judeo-Christian God with belief in a peculiarly German \"god\". He promoted the idea of this god as the creator of Germany, but Hitler \"was not a Christian in any accepted meaning of that word.\" Domarus writes that Hitler neither believed in organized religion nor saw himself as a religious reformer. Hitler had fully discarded belief in the Judeo-Christian conception of God by 1937, writes Domarus, but continued to use the word \"God\" in speeches — but it was not the God \"who has been worshiped for millennia\", but a new and peculiarly German \"god\" who \"let iron grow\". Thus Hitler told the British journalist Ward Price in 1937: \"I believe in God, and I am convinced that He will not desert 67 million Germans who have worked so hard to regain their rightful position in the world.\"\n\nAlthough Hitler did not \"abide by its commandments\", Domarus believed that he retained elements of the Catholic thinking of his upbringing even into the initial years of his rule: \"As late as 1933, he still described himself publicly as a Catholic. Only the spreading poison of his lust for power and self idolatry finally crowded out the memories of childhood beliefs and in 1937 he jettisoned the last of his personal religious convictions, declaring to comrades, 'Now I feel as fresh as a colt in the pasture'\". Author Konrad Heiden has quoted Hitler as stating, \"We do not want any other god than Germany itself. It is essential to have fanatical faith and hope and love in and for Germany.\" Derek Hastings considers it \"eminently plausible\" that Hitler was a believing Catholic as late as his trial in 1924, but writes that \"there is little doubt that Hitler was a staunch opponent of Christianity throughout the duration of the Third Reich\".\n\nThe biographer John Toland, recounts that in the aftermath of an attempted assassination in 1939, Hitler told dinner guests that Pope Pius XII would rather have seen the \"plot succeed\" and \"was no friend of mine\", but also writes that in 1941 Hitler was still \"a member in good standing of the Church of Rome despite his detestation of its hierarchy\" According to Guenter Lewy, Hitler was not excommunicated from the Catholic Church prior to his death. Yet, these authors seem to have missed the fact that Hitler was in fact excommunicated, along with all other Nazi leaders, in 1931. Although he had received the Catholic sacraments of Baptism, and Confirmation as an infant, there is little evidence he considered himself subject to the teaching of the Church from adolescence onward, whatever cultural affiliation he claimed, and the excommunication would have meant nothing to him. \n\nSamuel Koehne of Deakin University wrote in 2012: \"Was Hitler an atheist? Probably not. But it remains very difficult to ascertain his personal religious beliefs, and the debate rages on.\" While Hitler was emphatically not \"Christian\" by the traditional or orthodox notion of the term, he did speak of a deity whose work was nature and natural laws, \"conflating God and nature to the extent that they became one and the same thing\" and that \"For this reason, some recent works have argued Hitler was a Deist\". In his writings on Hitler's recurrent religious images and symbols, Kenneth Burke concluded that \"Hitler's modes of thought are nothing more than perverted or caricatured forms of religious thought\".\n\nRichard Steigmann-Gall represents a small minority view, that Hitler was indeed a Christian. He wrote in 2003 that even after Hitler's rupture with institutional Christianity (which he dated to around 1937), he sees evidence that he continued to hold Jesus in high esteem, and never directed his attacks on Jesus himself. Use of the term \"positive Christianity\" in the Nazi Party Program of the 1920s is commonly regarded as a tactical measure, but Steigmann-Gall believes it may have had an \"inner logic\" and been \"more than a political ploy\". He considers that Hitler was religious at least in the 1920s and early 1930s, and that he saw Jesus as an Aryan opponent of the Jews.\n\nIn his memoirs, Hitler's confidant, personal architect, and Minister of Armaments Albert Speer, wrote: \"Amid his political associates in Berlin, Hitler made harsh pronouncements against the church\", yet \"he conceived of the church as an instrument that could be useful to him\":\n\nThe Goebbels Diaries also remark on this policy. Goebbels wrote on 29 April 1941 that though Hitler was \"a fierce opponent\" of the Vatican and Christianity, \"he forbids me to leave the church. For tactical reasons.\"\n\nAccording to Speer, Hitler's private secretary, Martin Bormann, relished recording any harsh pronouncements by Hitler against the church. Speer considered Bormann to be the driving force behind the regime's campaign against the churches. Speer thought that Hitler approved of Bormann's aims, but was more pragmatic and wanted to \"postpone this problem to a more favourable time\":\n\nHitler, wrote Speer, viewed Christianity as the wrong religion for the \"Germanic temperament\": Speer wrote that Hitler would say: \"You see, it's been our misfortune to have the wrong religion. Why didn't we have the religion of the Japanese, who regard sacrifice for the fatherland as the highest good? The Mohammedan religion too would have been much more compatible to us than Christianity. Why did it have to be Christianity with its meekness and flabbiness?\" Speer also wrote of observing in Hitler \"quite a few examples\", and that he held a negative view toward Himmler and Rosenberg's mystical notions.\n\nMartin Bormann, who was serving as Hitler's private secretary, persuaded Hitler to allow a team of specially picked officers to record in shorthand his private conversations for posterity. Between 1941 and 1944, Hitler's words were recorded in transcripts now known as \"Hitler's Table Talk\". The transcripts concern not only Hitler's views on war and foreign affairs, but also his characteristic attitudes on religion, culture, philosophy, personal aspirations, and his feelings towards his enemies and friends. Speer noted in his memoirs that Bormann relished recording any harsh pronouncements made by Hitler against the church: \"there was hardly anything he wrote down more eagerly than deprecating comments on the church\". Within the transcripts, Hitler speaks of Christianity as \"absurdity\" and \"humbug\" founded on \"lies\" with which he could \"never come personally to terms.\"\n\nThe widespread consensus among historians is that the views expressed in Trevor-Roper's translation of \"Table Talk\", are credible and reliable, although as with all historical sources, a high level of critical awareness about its origins and purpose are advisable. The remarks from \"Table Talk\" accepted as genuine include such quotes as \"Christianity is the prototype of Bolshevism: the mobillization by the Jew of the masses of slaves with the object of undermining society.\" Alan Bullock's seminal biography \"\" quotes Hitler as saying, \"Taken to its logical extreme, Christianity would mean the systematic cultivation of the human failure\"; found also in \"Table Talk\", and repeats other views appearing in Table Talk such as: the teachings of Christianity are a rebellion against the natural law of selection by struggle and survival of the fittest.\n\nMichael Burleigh contrasted Hitler's public pronouncements on Christianity with those in \"Table Talk\", suggesting that Hitler's real religious views were \"a mixture of materialist biology, a faux-Nietzschean contempt for core, as distinct from secondary, Christian values, and a visceral anti-clericalism.\" Richard Evans also reiterated the view that Nazism was secular, scientific and anti-religious in outlook in the last volume of his trilogy on Nazi Germany: \"Hitler's hostility to Christianity reached new heights, or depths, during the war;\" his source for this was the 1953 English translation of \"Table Talk\". \"Table Talk\" has the dictator often voicing stridently negative views of Christianity, such as: \"The heaviest blow that ever struck humanity was the coming of Christianity. Bolshevism is Christianity's illegitimate child. Both are inventions of the Jew. The deliberate lie in the matter of religion was introduced into the world by Christianity.\"\n\nTranscripts contained in \"Table Talk\" have Hitler expressing faith that science would wear away religion. On 14 October 1941, in an entry concerning the fate of Christianity, Hitler says: \"Science cannot lie, for it's always striving, according to the momentary state of knowledge, to deduce what is true. When it makes a mistake, it does so in good faith. It's Christianity that's the liar. It's in perpetual conflict with itself.\" Religion will crumble before scientific advances, says Hitler: \"The dogma of Christianity gets worn away before the advances of science. Religion will have to make more and more concessions. Gradually the myths crumble. All that's left is to prove that in nature there is no frontier between the organic and the inorganic. When understanding of the universe has become widespread, when the majority of men know that the stars are not sources of light but worlds, perhaps inhabited worlds like ours, then the Christian doctrine will be convicted of absurdity.\"\n\nHitler wanted his movement aloof from religion, fearing a pact with the churches would collapse: \"I'm convinced that any pact with the Church can offer only a provisional benefit, for sooner or later the scientific spirit will disclose the harmful character of such a compromise. Thus the State will have based its existence on a foundation that one day will collapse. An educated man retains the sense of the mysteries of nature and bows before the unknowable. An uneducated man, on the other hand, runs the risk of going over to atheism (which is a return to the state of the animal) as soon as he perceives that the State, in sheer opportunism, is making use of false ideas in the matter of religion, whilst in other fields it bases everything on pure science. That's why I've always kept the Party aloof from religious questions.\"\n\nAccording to \"Table Talk\", Hitler believed that Jesus' true Christian teachings had been corrupted by the apostle St Paul, who had transformed them into a kind of Jewish Bolshevism, which Hitler believed preached \"the equality of all men amongst themselves, and their obedience to an only god. This is what caused the death of the Roman Empire.\"\n\nIn \"Table Talk\", Hitler praised Julian the Apostate's \"Three Books Against the Galilaeans\", an anti-Christian tract from AD 362, in the entry dated 21 October 1941, stating: \"When one thinks of the opinions held concerning Christianity by our best minds a hundred, two hundred years ago, one is ashamed to realise how little we have since evolved. I didn't know that Julian the Apostate had passed judgment with such clear-sightedness on Christianity and Christians. ... Originally, Christianity was merely an incarnation of Bolshevism the destroyer. Nevertheless, the Galilean, who later was called the Christ, intended something quite different. He must be regarded as a popular leader who took up His position against Jewry... and it's certain that Jesus was not a Jew. The Jews, by the way, regarded Him as the son of a whore—of a whore and a Roman soldier. The decisive falsification of Jesus's doctrine was the work of St. Paul. He gave himself to this work with subtlety and for purposes of personal exploitation. For the Galilean's object was to liberate His country from Jewish oppression. He set Himself against Jewish capitalism, and that's why the Jews liquidated Him. Paul of Tarsus (his name was Saul, before the road to Damascus) was one of those who persecuted Jesus most savagely.\"\n\nRichard Carrier made some isolated comparisons of passages from the German, French and English editions of Table Talk, and found in each case that the English edition by Trevor-Roper was a translation of the French edition by Francois Genoud, rather than from the German editions; and also that the French translation contained significant distortions, which generally heightened the impression of Hitler's hatred for Christianity. Carrier concluded that \"the Trevor-Roper edition is to be discarded as worthless.\" However, Carrier found that three German versions \"have a common ancestor, which must be the actual bunker notes themselves\", and recommended that scholars needed to work directly with the German editions.\n\nIn his introduction to a 2013 edition of Trevor-Roper's Table Talk, Gerhard Reinberg agreed that the Trevor-Roper edition \"derives from Genoud's French edition and not from either of the German texts.\" After examining Trevor-Roper's personal correspondence and papers, Mikael Nilsson concluded that Trevor-Roper was fully aware of the fact that his edition was based on the French text, but failed to reveal the problems in public.\n\nThe \"Goebbels Diaries\", written by Hitler's Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels, provide important insights into Hitler's thinking and actions. In a diary entry of 28 December 1939, Goebbels wrote that \"the Fuhrer passionately rejects any thought of founding a religion. He has no intention of becoming a priest. His sole exclusive role is that of a politician.\" In an 8 April 1941 entry, Goebbels wrote \"He hates Christianity, because it has crippled all that is noble in humanity.\"\n\nIn 1937, Goebbels noted Hitler's approval of anti-Christian propaganda and the show trials of clergy. Hitler's impatience with the churches, wrote Kershaw, \"prompted frequent outbursts of hostility. In early 1937 he was declaring that 'Christianity was ripe for destruction', and that the Churches must yield to the \"primacy of the state\", railing against any compromise with \"the most horrible institution imaginable\". In his entry for 29 April 1941, Goebbels noted long discussions about the Vatican and Christianity, and wrote: \"The Fuhrer is a fierce opponent of all that humbug\".\n\nIn 1939, Goebbels wrote that the Fuhrer knew that he would \"have to get around to a conflict between church and state\" but that in the meantime \"The best way to deal with the churches is to claim to be a 'positive Christian'.\"\n\nIn another entry, Goebbels wrote that Hitler was \"deeply religious but entirely anti-Christian\". Goebbels wrote on 29 December 1939:\n\nGoebbels notes in a diary entry in 1939 a conversation in which Hitler had \"expressed his revulsion against Christianity. He wished that the time were ripe for him to be able to openly express that. Christianity had corrupted and infected the entire world of antiquity.\" Hitler, wrote Goebbels, saw the pre-Christian Augustan Age as the high point of history, and could not relate to the Gothic mind nor to \"brooding mysticism\".\n\nThe diaries also report that Hitler believed Jesus \"also wanted to act against the Jewish world domination. Jewry had him crucified. But Paul falsified his doctrine and undermined ancient Rome.\"\n\nOtto Strasser was a German politician and an early member of the Nazi Party, he together with his brother Gregor Strasser, was a leading member of the party's left-wing faction. During the conversation with his brother, he stated that he was disappointed with Hitler because:\n\nErnst Hanfstaengl was a German-American businessman and intimate friend of Adolf Hitler. He eventually fell out of favour with Hitler, however, and defected from Nazi Germany to the United States. When he wrote down Hitler's religious views, he stated, like Otto Strasser, that Adof Hitler was an atheist:\n\nThe Anschluss saw the annexation of Austria by Nazi Germany in early 1938. The Austrian chancellor, Kurt von Schuschnigg, had traveled to Germany to meet Hitler, who, according to Schuschnigg's later testimony, went into a threatening rage against the role of Austria in German history, saying, \"Every national idea was sabotaged by Austria throughout history; and indeed all this sabotage was the chief activity of the Habsburgs and the Catholic Church.\" This ended in Hitler's ultimatum to end Austrian independence and hand the nation to the Nazis.\n\nFollowing the 1944 assassination attempt in the \"20 July plot\", Hitler credited his survival to fate in a radio broadcast the following day. German deputy press chief Helmut Suendermann declared, \"The German people must consider the failure of the attempt on Hitler's life as a sign that Hitler will complete his tasks under the protection of a divine power\".\n\nFollowing a meeting with Hitler, Cardinal Michael von Faulhaber, a man who had \"courageously criticized the Nazi attacks on the Catholic Church—went away convinced that Hitler was deeply religious\", noted Kershaw. In November 1936 the Roman Catholic prelate met Hitler at Berghof for a three-hour meeting. He left the meeting and wrote \"The Reich Chancellor undoubtedly lives in belief in God. He recognises Christianity as the builder of Western culture\". \nKershaw cites Faulhaber's case as an example of Hitler's ability to \"pull the wool over the eyes of even hardened critics\", demonstrating Hitler's \"evident ability to simulate, even to potentially critical church leaders, an image of a leader keen to uphold and protect Christianity\".\n\nAdolf Hitler was raised in a Roman Catholic family in Habsburg Austria. However, reliable historical details on his childhood are scarce. According to Hitler historian Ian Kershaw, the reflections Hitler provided on his own life in \"Mein Kampf\" are \"inaccurate in detail and coloured in interpretation\", while information that was given during the Nazi period is \"dubious\", as can be the postwar recollections of family and acquaintances.\n\nHitler was baptised as a Catholic in the same year he was born, 1889. Hitler's father Alois, though nominally a Catholic, was somewhat religiously skeptical and anticlerical, while his mother Klara was a devout practising Catholic. Wilson wrote: \"Much is sometimes made of the Catholic upbringing of Hitler ... it was something to which Hitler himself often made allusion, and he was nearly always violently hostile. 'The biretta! The mere sight of these abortions in cassocks makes me wild! Hitler boasted of expressing skepticism to clergyman-teachers when taught religious instruction school. He attended several primary schools. For six months, the family lived opposite a Benedictine Monastery at Lambach, and on some afternoons, Hitler attended the choir school there. Hitler later wrote in \"Mein Kampf\" that at this time he dreamed of one day taking holy orders. \n\nHitler was confirmed on 22 May 1904. According to Rissmann, as a youth Hitler was influenced by Pan-Germanism and began to reject the Catholic Church, receiving confirmation only unwillingly. Biographer John Toland wrote of the 1904 ceremony at Linz Cathedral that Hitler's confirmation sponsor said he nearly had to \"drag the words out of him... almost as though the whole confirmation was repugnant to him\". Rissmann notes that, according to several witnesses who lived with Hitler in a men's home in Vienna, Hitler never again attended Mass or received the sacraments after leaving home. \n\nIn 1909, Hitler moved to Vienna and according to Bullock his intellectual interests there vacillated and his reading included \"Ancient Rome, the Eastern religions, Yoga, Occultism, Hypnotism, Astrology, Protestantism, each in turn excited his interest for a moment ... He struck people as unbalanced. He gave rein to his hatreds—against the Jews, the priests, the Social Democrats, the Habsburgs—without restraint\".\n\nIn Percy Ernst Schramm's \"The Anatomy of a Dictator\", which was based on an analysis of the transcripts of the \"Table Talk\" recordings, Hitler is quoted as saying that \"after a hard inner struggle\" he had freed himself from the religious beliefs of his youth, so that he felt \"as fresh as a foal in the pasture\".\n\nAlthough personally skeptical, Hitler's public relationship to religion was one of opportunistic pragmatism. In religious affairs he readily adopted a strategy \"that suited his immediate political purposes.\" He typically tailored his message to his audience's perceived sensibilities and Kershaw considers that few people could really claim to \"know\" Hitler, who was \"a very private, even secretive individual\", able to deceive \"even hardened critics\" as to his true beliefs. In private, he scorned Christianity, but when out campaigning for power in Germany, he made statements in favour of the religion.\n\nHitler's public utterances were peppered with references to \"God\" and \"Spirit\". In \"\", Bullock wrote that Hitler, like Napoleon before him, frequently employed the language of \"divine providence\" in defence of his own personal myth, but ultimately shared with the Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin \"the same materialist outlook, based on the nineteenth century rationalists' certainty that the progress of science would destroy all myths and had already proved Christian doctrine to be an absurdity\":\n\nHitler had an \"ability to simulate, even to potentially critical Church leaders, an image of a leader keen to uphold and protect Christianity [from Bolshevism]\" wrote Kershaw, which served to deflect direct criticism of him from Church leaders, who instead focused their condemnations on the known \"anti-Christian party radicals\".\n\nIn \"Mein Kampf\" (1924-25), which was written while he was in prison after his failed 1923 putsch, Hitler combined elements of autobiography with an exposition of his racist political ideology . The personal reflections contained within \"Mein Kampf\" are nevertheless inaccurate and unreliable. In the work, Hitler uses the words \"God\", \"the Creator\", \"Providence\" and \"the Lord\".\n\nLaurence Rees described the thrust of the work as \"bleak nihilism\" revealing a cold universe with no moral structure other than the fight between different people for supremacy: \"What's missing from \"Mein Kampf\"\", wrote Rees—\"and this is a fact that has not received the acknowledgement it should—is any emphasis on Christianity\"—though Germany, Rees noted, had been Christian for a thousand years. So, concluded Rees, \"the most coherent reading of \"Mein Kampf\" is that whilst Hitler was prepared to believe in an initial creator God, he did not accept the conventional Christian vision of heaven and hell, nor the survival of an individual \"soul\" ... we are animals and just like animals we face the choice of destroying or being destroyed.\"\n\nPaul Berben wrote that insofar as the Christian denominations were concerned, Hitler declared himself to be neutral in Mein Kampf—but argued for clear separation of church and state, and for the church not to concern itself with the earthly life of the people, which must be the domain of the state. According to William Shirer, Hitler \"inveighed against political Catholicism in \"Mein Kampf\" and attacked the two main Christian churches for their failure to recognise the racial problem\", while also warning that no political party could succeed in \"producing a religious reformation\".\n\nIn \"Mein Kampf\" Hitler wrote that Jesus \"made no secret of his attitude toward the Jewish people, and when necessary he even took the whip to drive from the temple of the Lord this adversary of all humanity, who then as always saw in religion nothing but an instrument for his business existence. In return, Christ was nailed to the cross.\"\n\nHitler wrote of the importance of a definite and uniformly accepted \"Weltanschauung\" (world view), and noted that the diminished position of religion in Europe had led to a decline in necessary certainties—\"yet this human world of ours would be inconceivable without the practical existence of religious belief\". The various substitutes hitherto offered could not \"usefully replace the existing denominations\".\n\nExamining how to establish a new order, Hitler argued that the greatness of powerful organizations was reliant on intolerance of all others, so that the greatness of Christianity arose from the \"unrelenting and fanatical proclamation and defence of its own teaching\". Hitler rejected a view that Christianity brought civilization to the Germanic peoples, however: \"It is therefore outrageously unjust to speak of the pre-Christian Germans as barbarians who had no civilization. They never have been such.\" Foreshadowing his conflict with the Catholic Church over euthanasia in Nazi Germany, Hitler wrote that the churches should give up missionary work in Africa, and concentrate on convincing Europeans that is more pleasing to God if they adopt orphans rather than \"give life to a sickly child that will be a cause of suffering and unhappiness to all\". The Christian churches should forget about their own differences and focus on the issue of \"racial contamination\", he declared.\n\nWhen he arrived in Vienna as a young man, Hitler claimed, he was not yet anti-Semitic: \"In the Jew I still saw only a man who was of a different religion, and therefore, on grounds of human tolerance, I was against the idea that he should be attacked because he had a different faith.\" He thought that anti-Semitism based on religious, rather than racial grounds, was a mistake: \"The anti-Semitism of the Christian-Socialists was based on religious instead of racial principles.\" Instead, Hitler argued that Jews should be deplored on the basis of their \"race\".\n\nIn an attempt to justify Nazi aggression, Hitler drew a parallel between militantism and Christianity's rise to power as the Roman Empire's official state religion:\n\n\"The individual may establish with pain today that with the appearance of Christianity the first spiritual terror entered into the far freer ancient world, but he will not be able to contest the fact that since then the world has been afflicted and dominated by this coercion, and that coercion is broken only by coercion, and terror only by terror. Only then can a new state of affairs be constructively created. Political parties are inclined to compromises; philosophies never. Political parties even reckon with opponents; philosophies proclaim their infallibility.\"\n\nElsewhere in \"Mein Kampf,\" Hitler speaks of the \"creator of the universe\" and \"eternal Providence\". He also states that the Aryan race was created by God, and that it would be a sin to dilute it through racial intermixing:\n\n\"The völkisch-minded man, in particular, has the sacred duty, each in his own denomination, of making people stop just talking superficially of God's will, and actually fulfill God's will, and not let God's word be desecrated. For God's will gave men their form, their essence and their abilities. Anyone who destroys His work is declaring war on the Lord's creation, the divine will.\"\n\nIn Mein Kampf, Hitler saw Jesus as against the Jews rather than one of them: \"And the founder of Christianity made no secret indeed of his estimation of the Jewish people. When He found it necessary, He drove those enemies of the human race out of the Temple of God.\"\n\nDerek Hastings writes that, according to Hitler's personal photographer Heinrich Hoffmann, the strongly anti-Semitic Hieronymite Catholic priest Bernhard Stempfle was a member of Hitler's inner circle in the early 1920s and frequently advised him on religious issues. He helped Hitler in the writing of \"Mein Kampf\". He was killed by the SS in the 1934 purge.\n\nArticle 24 of Hitler's National Socialist Programme of 1920 had endorsed what it termed \"Positive Christianity\", but placed religion below party ideology by adding the caveat that it must not offend \"the moral sense of the German race\". Non-denominational, the term could be variously interpreted, but allayed fears among Germany's Christian majority as to the oft expressed anti-Christian convictions of large sections of the Nazi movement. It further proposed a definition of a \"positive Christianity\" which could combat the \"Jewish-materialistic spirit\".\n\nIn 1922, a decade before Hitler took power, former Prime Minister of Bavaria, Count von Lerchenfeld-Köfering stated in a speech before the Landtag of Bavaria, that his beliefs \"as a man and a Christian\" prevented him from being an anti-Semite or from pursuing anti-Semitic public policies. Hitler turned Lerchenfeld's perspective of Jesus on its head, telling a crowd in Munich:\n\nIn a 1928 speech, he said: \"We tolerate no one in our ranks who attacks the ideas of Christianity ... in fact our movement is Christian.\"\n\nIn light of later developments, Rees notes, \"The most persuasive explanation of [Hitler's] statements is that Hitler, as a politician, simply recognised the practical reality of the world he inhabited ... Had Hitler distanced himself or his movement too much from Christianity it is all but impossible to see how he could ever have been successful in a free election. Thus his relationship in public to Christianity—indeed his relationship to religion in general—was opportunistic. There is no evidence that Hitler himself, in his personal life, ever expressed any individual belief in the basic tenets of the Christian church\". Richard Evans considers that the gap between Hitler's public and private pronouncements was due to a desire not to cause a quarrel with the churches that might undermine national unity.\n\nIn 1932, Hitler came up with the name German Christians (\"Deutsche Christen\") for a pro-Nazi group within Protestantism. \"Hitler saw the relationship in political terms. He was not a praticising Christian, but had somehow succeeded in masking his own religious skepticism from millions of German voters\", wrote Overy, who considered that Hitler found the arrangement useful for a time, but ultimately expected Christianity to wilt and die before \"the advances of science\". In this early period, the \"German Christian\" movement sought to make the Protestant churches in Germany an instrument of Nazi policy. Adherents promoted notions of racial superiority and race destiny. Hitler backed the formal establishment of the \"German Christians\" in 1932. It was nationalistic and anti-Semitic and some of its radicals called for repudiation of the Old Testament (the Hebrew Scriptures) and the Pauline epistles of the New Testament—because of their Jewish authorship.\n\nHitler's movement was not united on questions of religion. The consensus among historians is that Nazism as a whole was either unrelated to Christianity or actively opposed to it. Use of the term \"positive Christianity\" in the Nazi Party Program of the 1920s is generally regarded as a tactical measure, rooted in politics rather than religious conviction. Author Steigmann-Gall has put forward a minority interpretation, that positive Christianity had an \"inner logic\" and been \"more than a political ploy\". He believes Hitler saw Jesus as an Aryan opponent of the Jews. Though anti-Christians later fought to \"expunge Christian influence from Nazism\" and the movement became \"increasingly hostile to the churches\", Steigmann-Gall wrote that even in the end, it was not \"uniformly anti-Christian\". \n\nSamuel Koehne, a Research Fellow at the Alfred Deakin Research Institute, working on the official Nazi views on religion, answers the question \"Was Hitler a Christian?\" thus: \"Emphatically not, if we consider Christianity in its traditional or orthodox form: Jesus as the son of God, dying for the redemption of the sins of all humankind. It is nonsense to state that Hitler (or any of the Nazis) adhered to Christianity of this form.\"\n\nPrior to the Reichstag vote for the Enabling Act of 1933, under which Hitler gained the \"temporary\" dictatorial powers with which he went on to permanently dismantle the Weimar Republic, Hitler promised the German Parliament that he would not interfere with the rights of the churches. However, with power secured in Germany, Hitler quickly broke this promise.\n\nThrough 1933 and into 1934, the Nazi leader required a level of support from groups like the German conservatives and the Catholic Centre Party in the Reichstag, and of the conservative President von Hindenberg, in order to achieve his takeover of power with the \"appearance of legality\". In a proclamation on February 1, 1933, Hitler stated, \"The National Government will regard it as its first and foremost duty to revive in the nation the spirit of unity and co-operation. It will preserve and defend those basic principles on which our nation has been built. It regards Christianity as the foundation of our national morality, and the family as the basis of national life.\"\n\nOn 21 March 1933, the Reichstag assembled in the Potsdam Garrison Church, to show the \"unity\" of National Socialism with the old conservative Germany of President von Hindenburg. Two days later, the Nazis secured passage of the Enabling Act, granting Hitler dictatorial powers. Less than three months later all non-Nazi parties and organizations, including the Catholic Centre Party had ceased to exist. \n\nHitler sought to gain the votes of the Catholic Centre Party and German conservatives for the Enabling Act with a mix of intimidation, negotiation and conciliation. On 23 March 1933, just prior to the vote for the Enabling Act, he described the Christian faiths as \"essential elements for safeguarding the soul of the German people\" and \"We hold the spiritual forces of Christianity to be indispensable elements in the moral uplift of most of the German people.\" \"With an eye to the votes of the Catholic Centre Party\", wrote Shirer, he added that he hoped to improve relations with the Holy See. \n\nThe Centre Party asked for guarantees of the rights of the churches. Hitler promised that the institutions of the Weimar Republic and churches would be protected, and said his government saw the churches as \"the most important factors for upholding our nationhood\". Amid threats and talk of civil war, the Centre Party voted for the Act. Hitler's false promises of protection for the churches and institutions of the republic were never kept.\n\nIn January 1934, Hitler angered the churches by appointing the neo-pagan Alfred Rosenberg as official Nazi ideologist. The Fuhrer launched an effort toward coordination of German Protestants under a unified Protestant Reich Church under the \"Deutsche Christen\" movement, but the attempt failed—resisted by the Confessing Church. In \"The Aryan Jesus: Christian Theologians and the Bible in Nazi Germany\", Susannah Heschel noted that the \"Deutsche Christens\" differed from traditional Christians by rejecting the Hebrew origins of Christianity. In public statements made during his rule, Hitler continued to speak positively about a Nazi vision of Christian German culture, and his belief in an Aryan Christ. Hitler added that Saint Paul, as a Jew, had falsified Jesus' message—a theme Hitler repeated in private conversations, including, in October 1941, when he made the decision to murder the Jews.\n\nIan Kershaw said that Hitler had lost interest in supporting the \"Deutsche Christen\" from around 1934. However, in a speech 26 June 1934, Hitler stated:\n\nThe National Socialist State professes its allegiance to positive Christianity. It will be its honest endeavour to protect both the great Christian Confessions in their rights, to secure them from interference with their doctrines (\"Lehren\"), and in their duties to constitute a harmony with the views and the exigencies of the State of today.\n\nIn 1937, Hans Kerrl, Hitler's Minister for Church Affairs, explained \"Positive Christianity\" as not \"dependent upon the Apostle's Creed\", nor in \"faith in Christ as the son of God\", upon which Christianity relied, but rather, as being represented by the Nazi Party: \"The Fuehrer is the herald of a new revelation\", he said.\n\nThe propaganda machinery of the Nazi party actively promoted Hitler as a saviour of Christianity, and Nazi propaganda supported the \"German Christians\" in their formation of a single national church that could be controlled and manipulated.\n\nAccording to Bullock, as an adolescent in Vienna, Hitler read widely, including books on Occultism, Hypnotism, Astrology. However, his interest in these subjects was fleeting, and there is no evidence that he ever subscribed to any of these schools of thought. Bullock found \"no evidence to support the once popular belief that Hitler resorted to astrology\" and wrote that Hitler ridiculed those like Himmler in his own party who wanted to re-establish pagan mythology, and Hess who believed in Astrology. Albert Speer wrote that Hitler had a negative view toward Himmler and Rosenberg's mystical notions. Speer quotes Hitler as having said of Himmler's attempt to mythologize the SS:\n\nIn a 1938 speech in Nuremberg Hitler rejected any form of mysticism, but expressed his belief in God, and that the Nazi's work was to fulfill a divine will:\n\nAccording to Ron Rosenbaum, some scholars believe the young Hitler was strongly influenced, particularly in his racial views, by an abundance of occult works on the mystical superiority of the Germans, like the occult and anti-Semitic magazine \"Ostara\", and give credence to the claim of its publisher Lanz von Liebenfels that Hitler visited him in 1909 and praised his work. John Toland wrote that evidence indicates Hitler was a regular reader of \"Ostara\". Toland also included a poem that Hitler allegedly wrote while serving in the German Army on the Western Front in 1915.\n\nThe seminal work on Ariosophy, \"The Occult Roots of Nazism\" by Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke, devotes its last chapter the topic of \"Ariosophy and Adolf Hitler\". Not at least due to the difficulty of sources, historians disagree about the importance of Ariosophy for Hitler's religious views. As noted in the foreword of \"The Occult Roots of Nazism\" by Rohan Butler, Goodrick-Clarke is more cautious in assessing the influence of Lanz von Liebenfels on Hitler than Joachim Fest in his biography of Hitler.\n\nComparing him to Erich Ludendorff, Fest writes: \"Hitler had detached himself from such affections, in which he encountered the obscurantism of his early years, Lanz v. Liebenfels and the Thule Society, again, long ago and had, in \"Mein Kampf\", formulated his scathing contempt for that völkish romanticism, which however his own cosmos of imagination preserved rudimentarily.\"\nFest refers to the following passage from \"Mein Kampf\":\n\"The characteristic thing about these people [modern-day followers of the early Germanic religion] is that they rave about the old Germanic heroism, about dim prehistory, stone axes, spear and shield, but in reality are the greatest cowards that can be imagined. For the same people who brandish scholarly imitations of old German tin swords, and wear a dressed bearskin with bull's horns over their heads, preach for the present nothing but struggle with spiritual weapons, and run away as fast as they can from every Communist blackjack.\n\nIt is not clear if this statement is an attack at anyone specific. It could have been aimed at Karl Harrer or at the Strasser group. According to Goodrick-Clarke, \"In any case, the outburst clearly implies Hitler's contempt for conspiratorial circles and occult-racist studies and his preference for direct activism.\" Hitler also said something similar in public speeches.\n\nOlder literature states that Hitler had no intention of instituting worship of the ancient Germanic gods in contrast to the beliefs of some other Nazi officials. In \"Hitler's Table Talk\" one can find this quote:\n\"It seems to me that nothing would be more foolish than to re-establish the worship of Wotan. Our old mythology ceased to be viable when Christianity implanted itself. Nothing dies unless it is moribund.\n\nJackson Spielvogel and David Redles in an article published by the Simon Wiesenthal Center assert alleged influences of various portions of the teachings of H.P. Blavatsky, the founder of The Theosophical Society with doctrines as expounded by her book \"The Secret Doctrine\", and the adaptations of her ideas by her followers, through Ariosophy, the Germanenorden and the Thule Society, constituted a popularly unacknowledged but decisive influence over the developing mind of Hitler. The scholars state that Hitler himself may be responsible for turning historians from investigating his occult influences. While he publicly condemned and even persecuted occultists, Freemasons, and astrologers, his nightly private talks disclosed his belief in the ideas of these competing occult groups—demonstrated by his discussion of reincarnation, Atlantis, world ice theory, and his belief that esoteric myths and legends of cataclysm and battles between gods and titans were a vague collective memory of monumental early events.\n\nIn his childhood, Hitler had admired the pomp of Catholic ritual and the hierarchical organization of the clergy. Later he drew on these elements, organizing his party along hierarchical lines and including liturgical forms into events or using phraseology taken from hymns. Because of these liturgical elements, Daim's claim of Hitler's Messiah-like status and the ideology's totalitarian nature, the Nazi movement, like other fascist movements and Communism, is sometimes termed a \"political religion\" that is anti-ecclesiastical and anti-religious.\n\nAlthough Hitler expressed negative views towards the mystical notions of some of his senior Nazi underlings in private, he nevertheless appointed Heinrich Himmler and Alfred Rosenberg to senior positions in the Nazi movement. William Shirer wrote that, \"under the leadership of Rosenberg, Bormann and Himmler—backed by Hitler—the Nazi regime intended to destroy Christianity in Germany, if it could, and substitute the old paganism of the early tribal Germanic gods with the new paganism of the Nazi extremists\". Blainey wrote: \"Nazism itself was a religion, a pagan religion, and Hitler was its high priest ... Its high altar [was] Germany itself and the German people, their soil and forests and language and traditions\".\n\nIn 1924, during his imprisonment, Hitler had chosen Alfred Rosenberg to lead the Nazi movement in his absence. In his seminal 1930 work \"The Myth of the 20th Century\", Rosenberg wrote: \"We now realize that the central supreme values of the Roman and the Protestant Churches [-] hinder the organic powers of the peoples determined by their Nordic race, [-] they will have to be remodeled\". Hitler had called his book \"derivative, pastiche, illogical rubbish!\" But in January 1934, Hitler appointed Rosenberg as the cultural and educational leader of the Reich - the official Nazi philosopher and ideologist. Rosenberg was notoriously anti-Christian. Church officials were perturbed by Hitler's appointment of Rosenberg as Nazi philosopher as it apparently endorsed Rosenberg's anti-church and neo-pagan philosophy. The Vatican banned \"Myth of the Twentieth Century\" in February, 1934. During the War, Rosenberg outlined the future he envisioned for religion in Germany. Among its articles: the National Reich Church of Germany was to claim exclusive control over all churches; publication of the Bible was to cease; crucifixes, Bibles and saints were to be removed from altars; and Mein Kampf was to be placed on altars as \"to the German nation and therefore to God the most sacred book\"; and the Christian Cross was to be removed from all churches and replaced with the swastika. But Rosenberg was in the end, a marginalised figure in the Hitler regime.\nHitler selected Heinrich Himmler to head the Nazi \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) security forces. Himmler saw the main task of the SS to be that of \"acting as the vanguard in overcoming Christianity and restoring a 'Germanic' way of living\" in order to prepare for the coming conflict between \"humans and subhumans\": He set about making his SS the focus of a \"cult of the Teutons\". In 1937 he wrote that it was \"the mission of the SS to give the German people in the next half century the non-Christian ideological foundations on which to lead and shape their lives. This task does not consist solely in overcoming an ideological opponent but must be accompanied at every step by a positive impetus: in this case that means the reconstruction of the German heritage in the widest and most comprehensive sense.\"\n\nDuring his career, and for a variety of reasons, Hitler made various comments against \"atheistic\" movements. He associated atheism with Bolshevism, Communism, and \"Jewish materialism\". Overy writes of Hitler as skeptical of all religious belief, though not a thorough atheist:\n\nThe historian Geoffrey Blainey wrote that Hitler courted and benefited from fear among German Christians of militant Communist atheism. \"The aggressive spread of atheism in the Soviet Union alarmed many German Christians\", wrote Blainey, and with the National Socialists becoming the main opponent of Communism in Germany: \"[Hitler] himself saw Christianity as a temporary ally, for in his opinion 'one is either a Christian or a German'. To be both was impossible.\" In early 1933, Hitler publicly defended National Socialism against charges that it was anti-Christian. Responding to accusations by Eugen Bolz, the Catholic Centre Party Staatspräsident of Württemberg, that the National Socialist movement threatened the Christian faith, he said:\n\nHitler's speech referred to the political alliances of the Catholic aligned Centre Party with parties of the Left, which he associated with Bolshevism, and thus, atheism. Eugen Bolz was forced from office soon after the Nazis took power, and imprisoned for a time. Later he was executed by the Nazi regime.\n\nDuring negotiations leading to the Reichskonkordat with the Vatican, Hitler said, \"Secular schools can never be tolerated because such schools have no religious instruction, and a general moral instruction without a religious foundation is built on air; consequently, all character training and religion must be derived from faith.\" However, as Hitler consolidated his power, schools became a major battleground in the Nazi campaign against the churches. In 1937, the Nazis banned any member of the Hitler Youth from simultaneously belonging to a religious youth movement. Religious education was not permitted in the Hitler Youth and by 1939, clergymen teachers had been removed from virtually all state schools. Hitler sometimes allowed pressure to be placed on German parents to remove children from religious classes to be given ideological instruction in its place, while in elite Nazi schools, Christian prayers were replaced with Teutonic rituals and sun-worship. By 1939 all Catholic denominational schools had been disbanded or converted to public facilities.\n\nIn a radio address October 14, 1933 Hitler stated, \"For eight months we have been waging a heroic battle against the Communist threat to our Volk, the decomposition of our culture, the subversion of our art, and the poisoning of our public morality. We have put an end to denial of God and abuse of religion. We owe Providence humble gratitude for not allowing us to lose our battle against the misery of unemployment and for the salvation of the German peasant.\"\n\nIn a speech delivered in Berlin, October 24, 1933, Hitler stated: \"We were convinced that the people needs and requires this faith. We have therefore undertaken the fight against the atheistic movement, and that not merely with a few theoretical declarations: we have stamped it out.\" In a speech delivered at Koblenz, August 26, 1934 Hitler said: \"There may have been a time when even parties founded on the ecclesiastical basis were a necessity. At that time Liberalism was opposed to the Church, while Marxism was anti-religious. But that time is past. National Socialism neither opposes the Church nor is it anti-religious, but on the contrary, it stands on the ground of a real Christianity. The Church's interests cannot fail to coincide with ours alike in our fight against the symptoms of degeneracy in the world of today, in our fight against the Bolshevist culture, against an atheistic movement, against criminality, and in our struggle for the consciousness of a community in our national life, for the conquest of hatred and disunion between the classes, for the conquest of civil war and unrest, of strife and discord. These are not anti-Christian, these are Christian principles.\"\n\nHitler's choice of the Swastika as the Nazis' main and official symbol was linked to the belief in the Aryan cultural descent of the German people. They considered the early Aryans to be the prototypical white invaders and the sign of the Swastika to be a symbol of the Aryan master race. The theory was inspired by the German archaeologist Gustaf Kossinna, who argued that the ancient Aryans were a superior Nordic race from northern Germany who expanded into the steppes of Eurasia, and from there into India, where they established the Vedic religion.\n\nHitler's views on Islam are a matter of controversy. On the one hand, Hitler privately demeaned ethnic groups he associated with Islam, notably Arabs, as racially inferior. On the other hand, he also made private and public statements expressing admiration for what he perceived to be the militaristic nature of Islam and the political sharpness of the Prophet Muhammad.\n\nAmong eastern religions, Hitler described religious leaders such as \"Confucius, Buddha, and Muhammad\" as providers of \"spiritual sustenance\". In this context, Hitler's connection to Mohammad Amin al-Husseini, who served as the Mufti of Jerusalem until 1937 – which included his asylum in 1941, with the honorary rank of an SS Major-General, and recognition as an \"honorary Aryan,\" –\nhas been interpreted by some as a sign of respect, while others characterize it as a relationship born out of political expediency. Starting in 1933, al-Husseini, who had launched a campaign to free various parts of the Arab region from British control and expel Jews from both Egypt and Palestine, became impressed by the Jewish boycott policies which the Nazis were enforcing in Germany, and hoped that he could use the anti-semitic views which many in the Arab region shared with Hitler's regime in order to forge a strategic military alliance that would help him eliminate the Jews from Palestine. Despite al-Husseini's attempts to reach out to Germany, Hitler refused to form such an alliance with al-Husseini, fearing that it would weaken relations with Britain.\n\nDuring the unsuccessful 1936–39 Arab revolt in Palestine, Husseini and his allies took the opportunity to strengthen relations with Germany and enforced the spread of Nazi customs and propaganda throughout their strongholds in Palestine as a gesture of respect. In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood would follow al-Husseini's lead. Hitler's influence soon spread throughout the region, but it was not until 1937 that the Nazi government agreed to grant al-Husseini and the Muslim Brotherhood's request for financial and military assistance.\n\nAccording to Speer, Hitler wished that the Ottoman Empire had conquered Vienna in 1683: \"The Mohammedan religion would have been much more compatible to us than Christianity. Why did it have to be Christianity with its meekness and flabbiness?\" Similarly, Hitler was transcribed as saying: \"Had Charles Martel not been victorious at Poitiers ... then we should in all probability have been converted to Mohammedanism, that cult which glorifies the heroism and which opens up the seventh Heaven to the bold warrior alone. Then the Germanic races would have conquered the world.\"\n\nNotwithstanding Hitler's apparent admiration for Islam and Muhammad, and his willingness to work with Arab political leaders, he saw individual Muslims as racial and social inferiors. Nazi-era Minister of Armaments and War Production Albert Speer acknowledged that in private, Hitler regarded Arabs as an inferior race and that the relationship he had with various Muslim figures was more political than personal. During a meeting with a delegation of distinguished Arab figures, Hitler learned of how Islam motivated the Umayyad Caliphate during the Islamic conquest of Gaul and was now convinced that \"the world would be Mohammedan today\" if the Arab regime had successfully taken France during the Battle of Tours, while also suggesting to Speer that \"ultimately not Arabs, but Islamized Germans could have stood at the head of this Mohammedan Empire.\" Hitler said that the Germans would have become heirs to \"a religion that believed in spreading the faith by the sword and in subjugating all nations to that faith. Such a creed was perfectly suited to the German temperament.\"\n\nAs noted, Hitler was profoundly racist against the ethnic groups that practiced Islam. Regarding Hitler's wish that the Ottomans had conquered Europe, Speer notes that Hitler believed that their hegemony over Germans could not last, because of their racial inferiority, but that Islamized Germans would come to rule the world in their place. Hitler was also quoted in the early war years stating, \"We shall continue to make disturbances in the Far East and in Arabia. Let us think as men and let us see in these peoples at best lacquered half-apes who are anxious to experience the lash.\" Nevertheless, Hitler simultaneously made positive references about Muslim culture and Muslims as potential collaborators, such as: \"The peoples of Islam will always be closer to us than, for example, France\".\n\nNational Socialist ideology developed a racial hierarchy which placed minority groups – most especially the Jews – as subhuman. The categorization was based on the Nazi conception of race, and not on religion, thus Slavs and Poles (who were overwhelmingly Christian) were also grouped as inferior to the so-called \"Aryan\" peoples. Hitler espoused a ruthless policy of \"negative eugenic selection\", believing that world history consisted of a struggle for survival between races, in which the Jews plotted to undermine the Germans, and inferior groups like Slavs and defective individuals in the German gene pool, threatened the Aryan \"master race\". However, Hitler also had ideological objections to Judaism as a faith, and some of Hitler's antipathy towards Christianity flowed from its Jewish origins, as he saw Christianity as \"indelibly Jewish in origin and character\" and a \"prototype of Bolshevism\", which \"violated the law of natural selection\". \n\nWriting for the public in \"Mein Kampf\", Hitler described the Jews as enemies of all civilization and as materialistic, unspiritual beings: \"His life is only of this world, and his spirit is inwardly as alien to true Christianity as his nature two thousand years previous was to the great founder of the new doctrine.\" In the work, he also described a supposedly divine mandate for his anti-Semitism: \"Hence today I believe that I am acting in accordance with the will of the Almighty Creator: by defending myself against the Jew, I am fighting for the work of the Lord.\"\n\nDuring negotiations for the Concordat between the Catholic Church and Germany in 1933, Hitler said to Bishop Wilhelm Berning: \"I have been attacked because of my handling of the Jewish question. The Catholic Church considered the Jews pestilent for fifteen hundred years, put them in ghettos, etc, because it recognised the Jews for what they were. In the epoch of liberalism the danger was no longer recognised. I am moving back toward the time in which a fifteen-hundred-year-long tradition was implemented. I do not set race over religion, but I recognise the representatives of this race as pestilant for the state and for the church and perhaps I am thereby doing Christianity a great service by pushing them out of schools and public functions\". \n\nScholarly interest continues on the extent to which inherited, long-standing, cultural-religious notions of anti-Judaism in Christian Europe contributed to Hitler's personal racial anti-Semitism, and what influence a pseudo-scientific \"primitive version of social-Darwinism\", mixed with 19th century imperialist notions, brought to bear on his psychology. While Hitler's views on these subjects have often been called \"social Darwinist\", Hitler's grasp of the subject has been argued to have been incomplete, there is little agreement among historians as to what the term may mean, or how it transformed from its 19th-century scientific origins, to become a central component of a genocidal political ideology in the 20th century.\n\nAccording to historian Lucy Dawidowicz, anti-Semitism has a long history within Christianity, and the line of \"anti-Semitic descent\" from Luther to Hitler is \"easy to draw\". In her \"The War Against the Jews, 1933–1945\", she writes that Luther and Hitler were obsessed by the \"demonologized universe\" inhabited by Jews. Dawidowicz states that the similarities between Luther's anti-Semitic writings and modern anti-Semitism are no coincidence, because they derived from a common history of \"Judenhass\" which can be traced to Haman's advice to Ahasuerus, although modern German anti-Semitism also has its roots in German nationalism. Catholic historian José M. Sánchez argues that Hitler's anti-Semitism was explicitly rooted in Christianity. Writers including Heschel and Toland, have drawn links between Hitler's Catholic background and his anti-Semitism.\n\nLaurence Rees in contrast, notes that there is little emphasis on Christianity in \"Mein Kampf\", which presents a view of the universe conspicuously at odds with traditional Christians notions long established in Germany. Hitler's vision is ordered instead around principles of struggle between weak and strong. Rees argues that Hitler's \"bleak and violent vision\" and visceral hatred of the Jews had been influenced by sources outside the Christian tradition. The notion of life as struggle Hitler drew from Social Darwinism, the notion of the superiority of the \"Aryan race\" he drew from Arthur de Gobineau's \"The Inequality of the Human Races\"; from events following Russia's surrender in World War One when Germany seized agricultural lands in the East he formed the idea of colonising the Soviet Union; and from Alfred Rosenberg he took the idea of a link between Judaism and Bolshevism, writes Rees. \n\nRichard J. Evans notes that Hitler \"used his own version of the language of social Darwinism as a central element in the discursive practice of extermination...\", and the language of Social Darwinism, in its Nazi variant, helped to remove all restraint from the directors of the \"terroristic and exterminatory\" policies of the regime, by \"persuading them that what they were doing was justified by history, science and nature\". Fest considers that Hitler simplified de Gobineau's elaborate ideas of struggle for survival among the different races, from which the Aryan race, guided by providence, was supposed to be the torchbearers of civilization. \n\nIn his rhetoric Hitler fed on the old accusation of Jewish deicide. It has been speculated that Christian anti-Judaism influenced Hitler's ideas, especially such works as Martin Luther's essay \"On the Jews and Their Lies\" and the writings of Paul de Lagarde. Others disagree with this view. Hitler biographer John Toland offers the opinion that Hitler \"carried within him its teaching that the Jew was the killer of God. The extermination, therefore, could be done without a twinge of conscience since he was merely acting as the avenging hand of God ...\" Toland wrote that in 1941 Hitler was still \"a member in good standing of the Church of Rome despite his detestation of its hierarchy\" and \"he carried within himself its teaching that the Jew was the killer of God. The extermination, therefore, could be done without a twinge of conscience since he was merely acting as the avenging hand of God—so long as it was done impersonally, without cruelty.\"\n\nNazi ideology could not accept an autonomous establishment whose legitimacy did not spring from the government. It desired the subordination of church to state. Nevertheless, Nazi Germany was not formally atheist, and, other than for Jews and Jehovah's Witnesses, religious observance was permitted. Julian Baggini wrote that Hitler's Germany was not a \"straightforwardly atheist state\", but one which \"sacrilized\" notions of blood and nation. \n\nHitler feared the results of overt attacks on the deep-rooted German churches, as around two thirds of Germans were Protestant and most of the rest were Roman Catholic. German conservative elements, such as the officer corps of the army, opposed Nazi efforts against the churches, and Hitler needed to show caution. The Hitler regime responded to the ideological challenge of Christian morality using political repression and persecution and by challenging Christian teachings through education and propaganda. \n\nHitler possessed radical instincts in relation to the Nazi conflict with the Churches, and though he occasionally spoke of wanting to delay a struggle and was prepared to restrain his anti-clericalism out of political considerations, Kershaw considers that his \"own inflammatory comments gave his immediate underlings all the license they needed to turn up the heat in the 'Church Struggle.\n\nHitler \"wanted to neutralise any political threat from organised religion\", wrote Overy. \"The first step was to reach agreement with the Roman Catholic Church, whose theology was not susceptible to the new nationalist trends ...\" Hitler dispatched the Catholic conservative Franz von Papen to negotiate a Concordat with the Vatican. He obtained an agreement that clergy would refrain from politics, in return for guarantees of Church rights. Hitler was delighted, and received the congratulations of German Catholic leaders. However, violations of the treaty began almost as soon as it was signed. Hitler promulgated the sterilization law, and began work to dissolve the Catholic Youth League. Clergy, nuns and lay leaders began to be targeted, leading to thousands of arrests over the ensuing years, often on trumped up charges of currency smuggling or \"immorality\". Catholic publications were shut down. The Gestapo began to violate the sanctity of the confessional.\n\nBy early 1937, the church hierarchy in Germany, which had initially attempted to co-operate with Hitler, had become highly disillusioned and Pope Pius XI issued the \"Mit brennender Sorge\" encyclical—accusing Germany of violations of the Concordat and of sowing the tares of \"open fundamental hostility to Christ and His Church\", and denounced the pagan myth of \"blood and soil\". Hitler's invasion of the predominantly Catholic Poland in 1939 ignited the Second World War. Kerhsaw wrote that, in Hitler's scheme for the Germanization of the East, \"There would, he made clear, be no place in this utopia for the Christian Churches\".\n\nOn Protestantism, Hitler proposed to unite Germany's 28 Protestant churches into one Reich Church. Steigmann-Gall wrote that Hitler demonstrated a preference for Protestantism over Catholicism, as Protestantism was more liable to reinterpretation and a non-traditional readings, more receptive to \"positive Christianity\", and because some of its liberal branches had held similar views. Hitler's interest was opportunistic: \"From Hitler's point of view, a national church was of interest purely from a point of view of control and manipulation\", wrote Kershaw. He installed his friend Ludwig Müller as leader of the movement and sought to establish a pro-Nazi and anti-Semitic unified Reich Church. Resistance quickly arose in the form of the Pastors' Emergency League, led by Martin Neimoller, which had 40% of clergy by 1934 and founded the Confessing Church, from which some clergymen opposed the Nazi regime.\n\nWhen \"German Christians\" called for rejection of the Bible as \"Jewish superstition\" and of the Christian calling to \"love thy neighbour\", the movement lost still further support. Hitler's move to have Müller elected Bishop failed – despite intimidation. He then abandoned his efforts to unite the Protestant churches, appointed Hans Kerrl as Minister for Church Affairs in December 1934, and distanced himself permanently from the so-called \"German Christians\". According to Steigmann-Gall, he regretted that \"the churches had failed to back him and his movement as he had hoped\". Hitler stated to Albert Speer, \"Through me the Protestant Church could become the established church, as in England.\" A relative moderate, Kerrl initially had some success but amid continuing protests by the Confessing Church against Nazi policies, he accused dissident churchmen of failing to appreciate the Nazi doctrine of \"Race, blood and soil\". Kerrl said Nazi Positive Christianity rejected the Apostle's Creed and Divinity of Christ as the basis of Christianity, and called Hitler the herald of a new revelation. Hitler had Neimoller sent to the Concentration Camps in 1938, where he remained until war's end. Hitler largely ignored Kerrl, who died in office in 1941 and was not replaced.\n\nFrom the mid 1930s, the Nazi movement came increasingly to be led by vehement anti-Christians, whom Hitler appointed to key positions. As with the \"Jewish question\", the radicals pushed the Church struggle forward, especially in Catholic areas, so that by the winter of 1935–1936 there was growing dissatisfaction with the Nazis in those areas. Kershaw wrote that in early 1937, Hitler again told his inner circle that though he \"did not want a 'Church struggle' at this juncture\", he expected \"the great world struggle in a few years' time\". Nevertheless, wrote Kershaw, Hitler's impatience with the churches \"prompted frequent outbursts of hostility. In early 1937 he was declaring that 'Christianity was ripe for destruction', and that the Churches must yield to the \"primacy of the state\", railing against any compromise with \"the most horrible institution imaginable\". Priests were frequently denounced, arrested and sent to concentration camps. At Dachau, the regime established a dedicated Clergy Barracks for church dissidents. The Confessing Church seminary was banned. Its leaders, like Dietrich Bonhoeffer were arrested. Implicated in the 1944 July Plot to assassinate Hitler, he was later executed.\n\nOvery wrote that Christianity was ultimately as incompatible with National Socialism as it was with Soviet Communism and that \"Hitler expected the end of the disease of Christianity to come about by itself once the falsehoods were self-evident. During the war he reflected that in the long run 'National Socialism and religion will no longer be able to exist together'.\" Other historians have written of a more active intent on the part of Hitler and the Nazi leadership. Kershaw noted that Hitler's scheme for the Germanization of Eastern Europe saw no place for Christian churches and that Goebbels wrote from conversations with Hitler that there was an insoluble opposition between the Christian and a Germanic-heroic world-view which would need settling after the war. Speer noted in his memoir that churches were not to receive building sites in Hitler's new Berlin. Bullock wrote \"once the war was over, Hitler promised himself, he would root out and destroy the influence of the Christian Churches\". The Nazi plan was to \"de-Christianise Germany after the final victory\", writes historian of German Resistance Anton Gill. \"By the latter part of the decade of the thirties church officials were well aware that the ultimate aim of Hitler and other Nazis was the total elimination of Catholicism and of the Christian religion. Since the overwhelming majority of Germans were either Catholic or Protestant this goal had to be a long-term rather than a short-term Nazi objective\", wrote Michael Phayer.\n\nIn its brief of evidence for the Nuremberg Trials concerning the Nazi persecution of the churches, the American Office of Strategic Services (a forerunner to the CIA) compiled a report entitled \"The Nazi Master Plan\" which examined the Nazi persecution of the churches and found that the Hitler regime had a plan to subvert and destroy German Christianity. The investigator wrote:\n\nAccording to Kershaw, in 1937 Goebbels noted Hitler was becoming more radical on the 'Church Question', and indicated that, though current political circumstances required waiting, his long term plan was to eventually dissolve the Reich concordat with Rome, detach the church entirely from the state and turn the entire force of the party to 'the destruction of the clerics', and end the Peace of Westphalia in a 'great world showdown'. In 1941, when Bishop August von Galen protested against Nazi Euthanasia and seizures of church properties, although Hitler's sympathies lay with the radicals who wanted Galen dead and church properties seized, he calculated that this would turn Catholic areas still further against the regime. \"Only the need for peace in relation with the churches to avoid deteriorating morale on the home front determined his stance\", wrote Kershaw, \"Events in the Warthegau (where by 1941 94% of churches and chapels in the Posen-Gnesen diocese were closed, 11 % of the clergy were murdered, and most of the remainder thrust into prisons and concentration camps) showed the face of the future.\"\n\nThe National Socialist movement was not formally atheist, and generally allowed religious observance. Julian Baggini wrote that Hitler's Germany was not a \"straightforwardly atheist state\", but one which \"sacrilized\" notions of blood and nation. On October 13, 1933, Deputy Führer Rudolf Hess issued a decree stating: \"No National Socialist may suffer any detriment on the ground that he does not profess any particular faith or confession or on the ground that he does not make any religious profession at all.\" However, \"The aggressive spread of atheism in the Soviet Union alarmed many German Christians\", wrote Geoffrey Blainey and Hitler saw Christianity as a \"temporary ally\" against Bolshevism, and courted and benefited from fear among German Christians of militant Communist atheism. In that same year the regime banned most atheistic and freethinking groups in Germany—other than those that supported the Nazis.\n\nWhen criticised for anti-Christian sentiments in February 1933, Hitler claimed that it was the Nazis not the Catholic Centre Party that had taken on atheist politics. When negotiating the concordat with the Catholic Church, Hitler said he supported religious education in schools. Once in office however, Hitler then pursued a policy of suppression of denominational schools and church youth organizations. Clergymen teachers were removed from virtually all state schools. By 1939 all denominational schools had been disbanded or converted to public facilities. In that year, Evans notes, some 95% of Germans still called themselves Protestant or Catholic, while only 3.5% \"Deist\" (\"gottgläubig\") and 1.5% atheist. Most in these latter categories were \"convinced Nazis who had left their Church at the behest of the Party, which had been trying since the mid 1930s to reduce the influence of Christianity in society\".\n\nJohn Conway notes that the majority of the three million Nazi Party members continued to pay their church taxes and register as either Roman Catholic or Protestant Christians, \"despite all Rosenberg's efforts.\" Aggressive anti-Church radicals like Joseph Goebbels and Martin Bormann saw the \"kirchenkampf\" campaign against the Churches as a priority concern, and anti-church and anticlerical sentiments were strong among grassroots party activists. From 1938, writes Overy, \"Martin Bormann, head of the Party Chancellery and a prominent party atheist, took a leading role in trying to sever all state financial support for the churches, and to limit their legal status and activities, but the need to mobilise church support for the war effort from September 1939 led, as it did in the Soviet Union after 1941, to a limited political truce between church and state.\" Speer considered Bormann to be the driving force behind the regime's campaign against the churches and thought that Hitler approved of his aims, but wanted to \"postpone this problem to a more favourable time\":\n\nJehovah's Witnesses numbered around 30,000 at the start of Hitler's rule in Germany. For refusing to declare loyalty to the Reich, and refusing conscription into the army, they were declared to be enemies of Germany and persecuted. About 6,000 were sent to the concentration camps.\n\nAnti-Judaism as well as racial anti-Semitism were central planks of Hitler's philosophy. His regime perpetrated the Final Solution an effort to exterminate the Jews, which resulted in the deadliest genocide in history. Hitler's ideology presented the Jews as a biological challenge to the \"purity\" of German blood.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "10758116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10758116", "title": "Suleiman Mousa", "text": "Suleiman Mousa\n\nSuleiman Mousa () (11 June 1919 – 9 June 2008) was a Jordanian author and historian born in Al-Rafeed, a small village north of the city of Irbid. He wrote up to fifty books of which most prominent are \"Biography of Sharif Hussein Bin Ali, Jordan in the 1948 War, Great Arab Revolt\", \"History of Jordan in the 20th century\", and was the first and only Arab author to write about Lawrence of Arabia and show the Arab perspective.\n\nHis book \"\" was published in 1966 and translated into English, French and Japanese. It was written after a study that had convinced him that although there were many books written to praise Lawrence and others written to discredit him, all of them exaggerated his part in the Arab Revolt and failed to do justice to the Arabs themselves.\n\nSuleiman Mousa was born to a Christian family in the village of Al Rafeed, in 1919; the village overlooks the Yarmouk River and is located 20 km north of Irbid. The early death of his father, an unwealthy man with a passion for reading and writing, came as a shock to him, his mother and sister while Mousa was just six years old.\nLeaving them little but a cane basket containing several books, his mother took up the task of securing the family's needs. They lived a simple and spontaneous life as part of the village that depended mainly on agriculture for its survival.\n\nAfter receiving his elementary education from religious scholars, Mousa moved to a small school known as \"Al Ta'ifa\" for three years. As were his mother's ambitions, he was then sent to a governmental school in Al Husn (الحصن), where he resided at his relatives' until May 1934, when he was unable to continue into high school due to the family's limited income. A few months later, at the age of sixteen, he took up the profession of teaching at the School of Irbid.\n\nIn 1936 he traveled to the city of Haifa in Palestine where he first began working. After returning to Irbid and resuming his profession as a teacher for a brief period, he decided to make the journey to Jaffa (يافا) by train, which interconnected it with Damascus and was part of the Hejaz Railway built by the Ottoman Empire. This journey had a significant impact on his cultural life as it was then that he started borrowing and purchasing books and novels from neighbouring libraries and fulfilling his passion of reading. He gradually learnt English using dictionaries, and published many articles in Palestinian newspapers as well as several short stories in 1938. As time progressed, he found himself leaning closer towards books of literature and poetry and his fascination in history developed.\n\nHe returned in 1939 to Al Rafeed where he continued working in the field of education before becoming an employee in the Iraq Petroleum Company in Mafraq. In 1943 he fulfilled a substantial commitment and married \"Georgette Nuseir\" whom he had met on a visit to Nazareth. Mousa spent fifteen years in Mafraq and his publications were put close to a halt due to the inappropriate and illiterate environment he went through although he managed to publish a few short stories, articles and translations.\n\nA major transformation in his life occurred when Mousa moved to Amman, the Jordanian capital, and began working in the \"Jordanian Broadcasting Company\" in 1957, turning to the work of the publications service and the \"Ministry of Information and Culture\" until 1984. During that period, he was the editor of the Jordanian magazine \"‘Resalat Al Ordon’\" (1966 to 1967). Later on, Suleiman Mousa spent more than four years as a cultural adviser in the Greater Amman Municipality (GAM), from 1984 to 1988.\n\nMousa's first book \"Al Hussein Bin Ali and the Great Arab Revolt\" was published in 1957 where it was written when the author had been resident of Jaffa, Palestine in early 1939, when he was a mere nineteen years of age. The printing of this book occurred after nearly seventeen years of its writing.\n\nOne of the most prominent works of Suleiman Mousa is \"\", which has been translated into English, French and Japanese. This was a turning point for the author Mousa that has taken him to world fame. He showed the Arab's point of view about battles and events of The Great Arab Revolt, and also came in response to the British book written by Lawrence himself, who did not give the Arabs their right to the full extent. The author shows that Arabs fought in large numbers in the combat revolt against the Turkish rule for independence and freedom, and that they are the ones who fought and struggled, while Lawrence was merely an officer like any other in the British Army.\n\nWhile the author was resident of Jaffa in 1937, his activities were expanded to English as well as Arabic history books and he purchased several books in English of which most important were \"The Seven Pillars of Wisdom\" by Lawrence and \"The Arab Awakening\", by George Antonius, which emerged in its first edition in 1938.\n\nOf the articles written by Suleiman Mousa in Jaffa that sparked widespread attention was an article published by the name \"Lawrence on the balance\" () in \"Al Adab\" () magazine (November 1955) which discussed the book written by Richard Aldington called \"Lawrence of Arabia: A Biographical Inquiry\", which had appeared in Britain earlier that year.\nThe idea of writing a book discussing the matter in an integrated manner from an Arab's perspective was based on the success the eight-page article received.\n\nFive years later, the first Arabic edition of the book was published by the name \"T.E. Lawrence: An Arab View\" () followed by the translations into English in 1966, French in 1973 and Japanese in 1988.\nThe book was translated into English by Dr. Albert Boutros, a professor of English at the University of Jordan. Many Arab and Western references were used for its writing. Mousa was visited by senior Western writers, including professors Colin Wilson and Jeremy Wilson. To this day, his book remains the only one that shows the Arab viewpoint. It has left a deep impact on all researchers interested in Lawrence. Hence, the book has won global reputation, and became a reference to researchers about the subject of Lawrence and the Great Arab Revolt.\n\nBeing taught in Arab and foreign universities including the University of Oxford in Britain is a sure sign of the success and attention this book has drawn. It was Professor Eugene Rogan from the University of Oxford who had remarked in a July 2000 speech:\n\nSuleiman Mousa, in addition to being a recognized researcher who achieved a breakthrough intellectually and in the Arab World, was also a local ‘people's’ author.\nHe wrote in four major themes: Biographies, history of Jordan, history of Arab revolution and writings in literature and short stories, in addition to the translations of Arabic and several simplified books written for young people.\nMousa relied on many diverse Arab, British and foreign sources.\n\nHe went to the Public Record Office in the United Kingdom in 1974 and spent four months researching documents relating to Jordan. Therefore, his works are considered indispensable references for many students and researchers.\n\nMousa won many awards in recognition of his contributions to Jordanian and Arab history including: \"The Order of Independence in 1971, King Abdullah I Award for research in Islamic civilization in 1988, the State Incentive prize in 1990, the Order of Al Hussein distinguished first class in 2007\" and \"Medal of the Arab Author\" after his death in 2008.\n\nSuleiman Mousa died on 9 June 2008, in Amman, Jordan two days prior of his eighty-ninth birthday. He died of congestive heart failure.\nCultural officials participated in the funeral and wake as well as representatives of his majesty King Abdullah II of Jordan, the Ministry of Culture, the media and many more of whom have praised his contributions in various creative fields.\n\nAlthough Suleiman Mousa received numerous awards and honors during his lifetime, many projects have been launched posthumously in recognition of the contributions he has made to Jordanian, Middle Eastern and World history. The establishment of the Library of Suleiman Mousa at the (GAM), and the republishing of his complete works in several stages, with an \"aim of introducing history to the new generation\", are amongst the most prominent of these projects. Mousa was also awarded \"The Arab Author Medal\" in 2008 after his death.\n\nOn 11 November 2009, a library dedicated for the history of Jordan under the name of Suleiman Mousa, located at Al Hussein Cultural Center of the GAM, was inaugurated on behalf of the former Mayor of Amman, Omar Maani.\n\nThe library is divided into several sections, one for the titles related to the history of Jordan in Arabic, English and French. Another is allocated for books and personal possessions of Suleiman Mousa, as well as some documents he had been collecting during his work in writing, which his family donated to the library. At the inauguration, City Deputy Manager for Cultural, Social, and Sports Affairs, \"Haitham Jweinat\", referred to the uniqueness of the new library, and said that it will be open for all interested readers and researchers, noting that the GAM had taken the time to equip it with many facilities, including an internet local area network (LAN) and the availability of international magazines and newspapers.\n\nThe library regularly receives visitors from schools and universities to introduce them to Middle Eastern history through documentaries, photos and library resources. Several scientific seminars and conferences have already taken place at the library. Its goal is to become one of the important developmental and economical projects in Jordan, and the place to launch books related to Arab history and the history of Jordan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12230838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12230838", "title": "Terry Copp", "text": "Terry Copp\n\nTerry Copp (born 1938) is a Canadian military historian and Professor Emeritus at Wilfrid Laurier University and is Director of the Laurier Centre for Military and Strategic Disarmament Studies.\n\nCopp was born and grew up in Montreal. Educated at Sir George Williams University (BA) and McGill University (MA), Copp first published \"The Anatomy of Poverty: The Condition of the Working Class in Montreal, 1897ħ–1929\". Toronto, McClelland & Stewart Limited, 1974. He established a reputation as one of Canada's foremost military historians. He founded the journal Canadian Military History.\n\nHis books include \"Cinderella Army: The Canadians in Northwest Europe\", \"Fields of Fire: The Canadians in Normandy\", \"No Price Too High\", \"The Brigade: The Fifth Canadian Infantry Brigade\" and \"The Canadian Battlefields in Italy: Sicily and Southern Italy\".\n\nHe was involved in battlefield studies tours. He was also the military analyst for the acclaimed television series No Price Too High and a frequent contributor to Legion Magazine.\n\nIn November 2011, with Matt Symes and Nick Lachance, he co-authored Canadian Battlefields 1915–1918: A Visitor's Guide. Canadian Battlefields: 1915–1918\n\nIn November 2017, Terry Copp launched an online interactive e-book on the city of Montreal, Quebec during the First World War: montrealatwar.com\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52518293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52518293", "title": "The Flower of Gloster", "text": "The Flower of Gloster\n\nThe Flower of Gloster is a 1911 book by E. Temple Thurston (23 September 1879 – 19 March 1933), an Anglo-Irish poet, playwright and author. Published by Williams and Norgate, it sold well enough to merit a second edition two years later. A third unillustrated edition was published by Chapman and Hall in 1918, after which the book remained out of print for over half a century until being republished by David & Charles in 1968. A year before that, ITV had broadcast a 13-part children's serial of the same name (loosely) based on Thurston's original narrative.\n\nThemple Thurston's original book opens with the author dreaming of escape to the English countryside and trying to buy a narrowboat from which to see it. After meeting with scepticism and warnings about the unsavoury nature of canal people, he is advised to go to Oxford to view The Flower of Gloster. The boatyard owner, similarly sceptical, advises him to hire 'some decent fellar with an horse, what'll look after yer going through the locks.'. He introduces him to Eynsham Harry who, after some protracted negotiations in The Nags Head, agrees to be Temple Thurston's guide and mentor.\n\nTheir journey takes them first along the Oxford Canal to just north of Banbury, where they join the sprawling network of Midlands canals. They head north through Warwick and Leamington Spa, but as they near the heavily industralised landscape of the Black Country Temple Thurston begins to have some doubts about continuing and beseeches Eynsham Harry to turn the boat around – no easy task! - and head back via the Stratford-upon-Avon Canal to the pastoral landscapes they have so recently passed through.\n\nAt one point in the journey, Temple Thurston abandoned the canal in order to walk along the River Avon to Evesham and Tewkesbury, where het met up again with Eynsham Harry and The Flower of Gloster. According to David Viner's analysis of the text, the seemingly simple circuit of Oxford-Banbury-Warwick-Stratford-Tewkesbury-Oxford would not have been as straightforward as the author portrays it. Viner questions whether the journey ever took place in its entirety, the story was a composite of several journeys or canalside visits made on separate occasions. Whatever the truth, Viner concluded that none of the doubts on the literal interpretation of the journey detract from the book's value as a 'good read', an example of Edwardian romanticism, or its influence on canal history which has now lasted over a century. He is said to be the last person to navigate the Thames and Severn Canal.\n\nSetting down his own experiences thirty years later in his book \"Narrow Boat\", historian L.T.C. Rolt referred to \"The Flower of Gloster\" with delight, saying that it held pride of place in his own tiny collection of canal literature, the only professional account to have appeared in the previous fifty years.\n\nThe 1911 edition of Flower of Gloster included six watercolour scenes and numerous line drawings, all by Scottish artist W.R. Dakin and based on the author's photographs. The illustrations appear to have been a large part of the book's appeal and in its review of 'a delightful book' \"The Westminster Gazette\" said that the illustrations were 'among the sincerest, most spontaneous and charming ever seen in modern books'.\" The Scotsman\"'s reviewer noted that the book's value was heightened by 'the excellent sketches by W.R. Dakin in black and white and colours'. Dakin was a contributor to The Bookman, a monthly review magazine. As editor of the 1968 David & Charles edition, L.T.C. Rolt dropped Dakin's watercolours in favour of eight of Temple Thurston's original photographs. The photographs were kept for the 1984 book, mixed in with many more contemporary photographs which editor David Viner thought gave Temple Thurston's account a 'period feel' as it was a time of great activity for photographers recording social life and customs for use as postcards.\n\nAn American edition was published by Dodd, Mead and Company in 1912. The US version was identical to the first British editions apart from the original ‘Art Deco’ cover, which was changed to include an illustration of a boat more in tune with the American concept of a canal barge\n\nIn 1967, Granada TV broadcast a 13-part children's serial called \"The Flower of Gloster\", loosely based on Thurston's original. When their boatyard owner father is taken ill, his eldest son Dick, accompanied by siblings 10-year-old Michael and 12-year-old Elizabeth, volunteers to deliver a narrow-boat – The Flower of Gloster - to a buyer on his behalf. During their 220-mile trip south they make new friends, face dangers and difficulties, played out against the changing patterns of the British countryside. Their course winds its way from Wales, through the inland waterways of England to the Pool of London at Tower Bridge.\n\nIt was the first Granada TV series to be filmed in colour (though initially transmitted in black and white). Professional actors Richard O'Callaghan and Annette Robertson, were cast alongside real-life siblings Elizabeth and Mike Doherty playing the younger children. Also appearing were many of the real-life canal folk, by then an almost extinct as a breed.\n\nThe TV serial was followed a few years later by a book of the same name, authored by the producer Bill Grundy. Grundy intended the series to be educational as much as adventure, with information about geology and wildlife. He claimed to have got the idea after visiting a rally near his home in Marple\n"}
{"id": "142422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142422", "title": "Theodore Metochites", "text": "Theodore Metochites\n\nTheodore Metochites (; 1270–1332) was a Byzantine statesman, author, gentleman philosopher, and patron of the arts. From c. 1305 to 1328 he held the position of personal adviser (\"mesazōn\") to emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos.\n\nMetochites was born in Constantinople as the son of the archdeacon George Metochites, a fervent supporter of the union of the Orthodox and Catholic Churches. After the Council of Blachernae, his father was condemned and exiled, and Metochites seems to have spent his adolescence in the monastic milieux of Bithynia in Asia Minor. He devoted himself to studies of both secular and religious authors. When Andronicus II visited Nicaea in 1290/1291, Metochites made such an impression on him that he was immediately called to the court and made Logothete of the Herds. Little more than a year later, he was appointed a Senator. Besides carrying out his political duties (embassies to Cilicia in 1295 and to Serbia in 1299), Metochites continued to study and to write. In 1312/1313, he started learning astronomy from Manuel Bryennios; later he himself became the teacher of Nicephorus Gregoras. He was married with five sons and one daughter, Irene (spouse of John Komnenos Palaiologos).\n\nMetochites’ political career culminated in 1321, when he was invested as Grand Logothete. He was then at the summit of his power, and also one of the richest men of his age. Some of the money was spent on restoring and decorating the church of the Chora monastery in the northwest of Constantinople, where Metochites’ donor portrait can still be seen in a famous mosaic in the narthex, above the entrance to the nave.\n\nMetochites’ fortunes were, however, linked with his emperor’s. After a few years of intermittent civil war, Andronicus II was overthrown in 1328 by his own grandson, Andronicus III Palaeologus. Metochites went down with him. He was deprived of his possessions and forced into exile in Didymoteichon. In 1330, he was allowed to return to Constantinople. He then withdrew to Chora, where he died on 13 March 1332, having adopted the monastic name Theoleptos.\n\nMetochites’ extant œuvre comprises 20 \"Poems\" in dactylic hexameter, 18 orations (\"Logoi\"), \"Commentaries\" on Aristotle’s writings on natural philosophy, an introduction to the study of Ptolemaic astronomy (\"Stoicheiosis astronomike\"), and 120 essays on various subjects, the \"Semeioseis gnomikai\". Many of these works are still unedited.\n\nEditions with English translations:\n\nReviewed by Lazaris, S. 2002. \"Jeffrey Michael Featherstone (Introduction, Text and Translation), Theodore Metochites’s poems ‘to Himself’ [Byzantina vindobonensia, XXIII], Wien : Verlag der Österreichischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, 2000\", \"Scriptorium\" 56, p. 328*-330*()\n\n\nEditions without translation:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21267040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21267040", "title": "Timeline of non-sexual social nudity", "text": "Timeline of non-sexual social nudity\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWight, Fred H. \"Manners and Customs of Bible Lands\". Chicago: Moody Press. 1983\n"}
{"id": "14643603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14643603", "title": "Timothy Webster", "text": "Timothy Webster\n\nTimothy Webster (March 12, 1822 – April 29, 1862), Pinkerton agent and Union spy, was the first spy in the American Civil War to be executed.\n\nWebster came to America with his parents in August 1830 and settled in Princeton, New Jersey. He became a policeman in New York City sometime before 1850. He met Allan Pinkerton in 1853 and took a job with Pinkerton's private detective agency in 1856. \n\nWebster married Charlotte Sprowles on October 23, 1841 in Princeton, New Jersey and the couple had four children, two of whom died young. Their son, Timothy Jr., born in 1843, joined the Union Army from Onarga, Illinois on July 30, 1862 and was wounded in the Battle of Brices Crossroads near Ripley, Mississippi on June 11, 1864, and taken to a Confederate prison in Mobile, Alabama where his leg was amputated. He subsequently died there on July 4, 1864. His body was transported north to Onarga, Illinois and buried in the Onarga Cemetery next to his grandfather, Timothy Webster Sr., who died in Onarga in 1860.\n\nIn early 1861, Pinkerton sent Webster and Hattie Lawton to pose as a Southern gentleman and wife (Mrs. Webster) in the Baltimore area and became a member of a pro-Southern group in order to report on secessionists' plans and activities. Some of the information provided by Webster gave support to Pinkerton's assertion that there was a Baltimore Plot to assassinate Lincoln as he moved through Baltimore on his way to his inauguration in 1861.\n\nAfter the outbreak of war, Pinkerton began to provide agents to the Union armies under George B. McClellan. Webster continued to gather information on the Confederacy from 1861 through 1862 in southern Maryland and Richmond, Virginia. In Richmond in 1862 he was stricken with inflammatory rheumatism and was too ill to send reports back to Pinkerton. As a result, Pinkerton sent Pryce Lewis and John Scully to locate Webster. The two men were recognized as being Union spies and captured by the Confederacy. Scully eventually revealed information that caused Webster and Lawton to be arrested.\nConfederate officers had trusted Webster many times with valuable documents and information and the Confederacy was extremely embarrassed by Webster's betrayal. While Lewis and Scully were eventually released, Webster was arrested, tried, and sentenced to death by hanging. Hattie Lawton was imprisoned and later released in an exchange of prisoners.\n\nWhen Pinkerton heard the news of the sentence, he and President Lincoln sent a message to the Confederacy threatening that if Webster was put to death, the Union would reciprocate by hanging a Confederate spy. Union policy had been to keep Confederate spies in jail and exchange them for Union prisoners. \n\nThe Confederacy ignored the threat and on April 29, 1862, Timothy Webster climbed the gallows in Richmond, Virginia at Camp Lee. After the initial attempt to hang Webster failed, he was helped to the gallows again and was heard to say, \"I suffer a double death!\" before being killed on the second attempt. He was buried in Richmond, but in 1871, Pinkerton sent George Bangs and Thomas G. Robinson (Timothy's son-in-law) to Richmond to locate his body and bring it to Onarga, Illinois for burial. He was buried next to his father, Timothy Webster Sr., and his son, Timothy Webster Jr.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13437998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13437998", "title": "Tomb of the Diver", "text": "Tomb of the Diver\n\nThe Tomb of the Diver is an archaeological monument, built in about 470 BC and found by the Italian archaeologist Mario Napoli on 3 June 1968 during his excavation of a small necropolis about 1.5 km south of the Greek city of Paestum in Magna Graecia, in what is now southern Italy. The tomb is now displayed in the museum at Paestum.\n\nIt is a grave made of five local limestone slabs forming the four lateral walls and the roof, the floor being excavated in the natural rock ground. The five slabs, accurately bonded with plaster, formed a chamber sized — roughly – 215 × 100 × 80 cm (7.1 × 3.3 × 2.6 ft). All five slabs forming the monument were painted on the interior sides using a \"true fresco\" technique. The paintings on the four walls depict a symposium scene, while the cover slab shows the famous scene that gives the tomb its name: a young man diving into a curling and waving stream of water. Two masters have been distinguished, the south wall being by a less impressive artist than the others.\n\nWhen the tomb was discovered, these surprising frescos revealed its importance as they appear to be the \"only example of Greek painting with figured scenes dating from the Orientalizing, Archaic, or Classical periods to survive in its entirety. Among the thousands of Greek tombs known from this time (roughly 700–400 BC), this is the only one to have been decorated with frescoes of human subjects.\" This was presumably inspired by the many Etruscan painted tombs; Paestum was at the time a few miles from the border of the Greek and Etruscan zones of influence at the River Sele. Wall-paintings in other types of building were common in the Greek world, but survivals are extremely rare.\n\nThe local Campanians, who had taken control of Paestum by about 400 BC, left many painted tombs, mostly showing an obsession with horse and equine sport. Several of these are also in the museum in Paestum. \n\nIn the interior of the tomb, only a few objects were found: near the corpse (widely supposed to be a young man, despite the heavily deteriorated state of the skeleton) were a turtle shell, two \"arýballoi\" and an Attic \"lekythos\". This last object, in black-figure technique from about 480 BC, helped the discoverer and other scholars to date the tomb to about 470 BC.\n\n"}
{"id": "4677572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4677572", "title": "Trabancos (river)", "text": "Trabancos (river)\n\nThe Trabancos is a river in Spain that flows between the Zapardiel and the Guareña rivers, and is a tributary of the Duero river. The source of the Trabancos is in Moraña, a region in the north of the province of Ávila, near Blascomillán. The Trabancos is at an elevation of approximately , is approximately long and, although its river bed is stable, only has a constant water flow during and immediately after torrential rains.\n\nFrom its source in the province of Ávila, to its mouth in the village of Pollos \"(\"Village of Chickens\" in Spanish)\" in the Vallisoletana (\"confluence of waters\") region, the course of the Trabancos is markedly affected by a geologic fault originating in the Tertiary era—likely pre-Pliocene that, like most of the observed faults of that geological era, follows a NNE-SSW direction. As shown in the graph below, the fault separates material laid down during the Oligocene epoch on the right margin, from material laid down during the Miocene epoch on the left margin. The surface level represents material deposited during the Quaternary period.\n\nArcheological research in areas that surround the Trabancos River, between the villages of Castrejón and Pollos (Valladolid province) have been compared with the specialized bibliography and the published geological charts (\"infra\"). This produced identified a sequence of river terraces as follows, on the left hand margin of the chart: TT-1 platform (the most ancient, at +35/40 meters over the flood plain); the TT-2 platform (the second one at +25/30 meters); the TT-3 platform (at +15 meters over the floodplain); and the TT-4 platform (at +10 meters, the last and most recent).\n\nThe right hand margin of the designated chart depicts a \"gravel plateau\" present along the middle and final courses of the Trabancos River. The scientist Alfredo Pérez-Gonzalez named this formation \"Superficie de Alaejos\" (\"The Plateau of Alaejos\", after a nearby village). The Alaejos Plateau incorporates a number of different types of materials, including red argillic soil and a colluvium buildup of gravels with rounded stones of quartz and quartzite.\n\nThe terraces of the Trabancos River only occur on the left hand side of the valley. Their sediments overlie Miocene sediments. This is the result of a hard slope in the opposite margin, where the terrain is heavily eroded, which renders the formation and maintenance of river terraces impossible.\n\nOf the previously mentioned river terraces, the one known as TT-4 is only visible near \"Narros del Castillo\" (Ávila). Terrace TT-3 is the best preserved of the lot; although its height on the bed of the stream is not constant, it clearly stands out on the floodplain. Terrace TT-2 is quite well preserved as well, although it has been more heavily sculptured by other small tributaries of the Trabancos River. By contrast, terrace TT-1 is greatly eroded; although some sections survive to the south of the municipality of \"Alaejos\" (Valladolid), they are very difficult to differentiate from the colluvium floor that covers the \"Superficie de Alaejos\". Entering into land in the municipality of \"Pollos\", the stream stops to form river terraces, cutting traversely and lowering enough (between 40 and 60 meters) to meet the terrace deposits of the Duero River.\n\nThe TT-3 platform features a very compact and thick Miocene epoch conglomerate formed of river-smoothed pebbles of quartzite, most likely cut by the Trabancos River ages ago, and cemented together by chalk and sandstone materials. While this Miocene conglomerate emerges from the banks of each river terrace, the quartzite in the conglomerate on the TT-2 platform, just northwest of the municipality of Siete Iglesias de Trabancos, likely derives from the action of the Duero River rather than the Trabancos River, as a slope in the terrain is thought to have caused the formation of an alluvial fan that deposited quartzite on the fluvial fossil river bed of the Trabancos.\n\nThe fact that the river terraces of the Trabancos River cut and cross some terraces of the Duero River indicates the affected Duero River terraces are younger than those not formed from activity of the waters of this river. The \"superficie de Alaejos\" carve-out intrudes 4 to 6 meters into the Duero River terrace designated TD-7 (+74/80 m) to the northwest of Siete Iglesias de Trabancos village. Likewise, the TT-2 fluvial terrace of Trabancos cuts some Duero River terraces. Since the previously mentioned Duero River terrace named TD-7 has been dated by Alfredo Pérez-González (op.cit.) to the beginning of the Middle Pleistocene, meaning the river terraces of Trabancos River are younger than the \"Superficie de Alaejos\", it appears plausible that this postdates the creation of Trabancos valley: the proposed date could, thus, be halfway through the Middle Pleistocene or later.\n\nAlthough the eastern portion of the river is of insignificant \"hydrographic\" importance, at least until the 13th century, it played an important role in the history of the North Spanish Plateau.\n\nEvidence of prehistoric human habitation has been unearthed in hillsides in some areas of \"Narros del Castillo\" (Ávila), and in \"Siete Iglesias de Trabancos\" (Valladolid), dating from the Quaternary period, and have been further pinpointed as originating in the lower Paleolithic era. At both sites, collections of lithic stone artifacts knapped during the Acheulean period are found on the surface (not as a result of archeological excavation), including centripetally knapped lithic cores, others displaying non-arranged lithic reduction, as well as lithic flakes characteristic of both the Levallois and Kombewa techniques, chopping tools, and handaxes.\n\nOnly ambiguous archaeological evidence has been found dating from the late Roman period. It has been suggested by some that this is a result of the severity of the land and weather in the Trabancos valley and its surrounding regions. Possibly, during the pre-Roman period the territory was a no-man's-land between the Hispanic tribes of the Vaccei and Vettoni.\n\nSome archaeological remains have been found in the municipality of \"Siete iglesias de Trabancos\" (Valladolid), but they are not well preserved, having been situated on the surface of the terrain. Such remains consist of, for instance, broken pieces of comb-decorated pottery that appear to date from Spain's Iron Age. There are few other examples of prehistoric findings directly along the Trabancos river. However, in the surrounding regions, such as the municipality of \"Alaejos\" (Valladolid), archaeological investigation has unearthed several human burials sites that have been dated to the Bronze Age. In addition, some prehistoric remains have been found near the mouth of the Trabancos River, in \"Pollos\" village that originated from the Duero River. These include relics of the Spanish Bronze Age classified as \"Cogotas\" pottery, as well as \"Proto-Cogotas\" pottery, both featuring incised decoration.\n\nThe Romans likely came to the Trabancos region in the 2nd century, during the campaigns of Lucius Licinius Lucullus (152 BC), but the area was peripheral to the regions of principal occupation, as well as to the creation of early towns and more importantly, trade routes: most travel routes were in the east of this region, which followed the river Eresma from the town of Coca (\"Cauca\", in Roman times) and Matapozuelos village (\"Nivaria\" in Roman times), up to Simancas (\"Septimanca\"); and at the west, for the \"Vía de la Plata\" (\"silver road\"), the most important Roman route in Lusitania Province. Nevertheless, it is known that in the Vallisoletan area, there was several villages that probably are of pre-Roman origin. In fact, the etymology of the word 'Trabancos' suggests a name originating before the Roman occupation.\n\nAt the \"Lavachicha\" site (municipality of Castrejón, Valladolid) several pieces of typical Roman pottery named terra sigillata hispanica have been unearthed and there was also an archaeological excavation in the 1980s that revealed a necropolis from late Roman times or, perhaps, from Visigothic times. Similar remains of late Roman pottery, have been found in Carpio (Valladolid), but only at ground level, and not from archaeological excavation. Another municipality crossed by the Trabancos River is Nava del Rey (a small town located in Valladolid), where, once again, are found superficial pieces of terra sigillata hispanica and a striking plate fragment with red gloss, resembling those that were carried by Roman legionaries on military campaigns.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the area remained a zone of little interest. No written documents exist prior to the 12th century that mention the region. It is known, however, that between 711 and 740 AD the Berbers had stationed troops in the valley of the Duero, but the majority of these peoples left the area because of a severe drought that occurred sometime between 750 and 753 AD. Only the most important centers of habitation survived (Medina del Campo, Olmedo, Alcazarén, Tordesillas, etc.).\n\nDuring the Christian conquest, little emphasis was placed on resettling the region, as it was essential for the sovereigns of the time to consolidate more strategic zones (in the 11th century, priority was placed on the south of the Sistema Central, a mountain range located in the center of the Iberian peninsula), which is why Medina del Campo remained intact into the 12th century.\n\nNevertheless, Tomas Mañanes, a professor at the University of Valladolid, who investigated the Trabancos valley and Guareña area, found numerous defensive turrets or \"Torrejones\" (according to the local dialect) that were dated to the 11th century; that is to say, previous to any official resettlement. Specifically, more than ten defensive structures of various sizes were verified along the course of the Trabancos River in the province of Valladolid.\n\nAlmost all the torrejones are in areas now uninhabited (except those in Castrejón and Alaejos, both of which were turned into castles, in later history). The torrejones were relatively simple square or egg-shaped structures, with several floors, built of limestone or brick. At least two categories of torrejones can be identified: The first have small peepholes in their walls and are built in regions that were in isolated areas at the time of use, and the other are small castles located in what were rural farming villages (though today they are deserted).\n\nNevertheless, the typological similarity of the structures and the relatively short distance between them (ideal for visual communication), has led some to think that they were on opposite sides of the frontier line between the Kingdoms of León and Castile (in Salamanca there is a town names \"Zorita de la Frontera\" (\"Zorita on the Border\") in memory of those times). These fortresses were reinforced in the 12th and 13th centuries due to conflicts between the two kingdoms; but it appears that they are more plentiful on the Castilian side (near the Trabancos) than on the Leonese side (near the River Guareña). This has been seen as indicative of a certain independence on the part of the militia of the Community of Medina del Campo and surrounding areas, which was thereby forced to defend itself without outside help, while the Leonese side would have been able to rely on the help of Royal troops, and the Knights Hospitaller of the \"Order of Saint John of Jerusalem\", billeted in Castronuño and Torrecilla de la Orden.\n\nAs indicated at the start of the discussion of the area during the Middle Ages, despite its history as a fortified border from the tenth century, the area was unimportant until the thirteenth. The King of the (now united) Kingdom of Castile and Leon, Alphonse VII (1126–1157), made a series of internal territorial changes that transferred Leonese territories to the Crown of Castille: specifically, The Tierra de Campos to the north of the Duero, an area valued at the time for its riches, and the \"alfoz de Medina del Campo\" (to the south of the Duero), a poor and sparsely populated zone, although it possessed a certain strategic value in terms of the defense of the passes of the Duero valley. During the time of the union of the two crowns, the question of who owned these areas was of little importance; however, upon the death of Alphonse VII and the division of his possession amongst his sons, continuous conflicts arose over the control of the area, especially \"Tierra de Campos\", but also, though less importantly, over the area of Medina del Campo.\n\nThe wars over the area intensified between 1178 and 1181. The Leonese \"Alfoz de Toro\" was heavily defended, thanks to the Fortress of Castronuño, with a vicious battle taking place even on the shores of the Trabancos River itself. Of particular note is an encounter in 1179 between Leonese and Castilian forces, just outside the Fortress of \"Cast'cam\" (Castrejón), which led to the signing of a peace treaty between Alphonse VIII of Castille and Ferdinand II of León. But in fact peace came to a swift end in the year 1183, when the Kings of Castille and Leon made camp on the outskirts of the towns of Carpio and Fresno el Viejo (both towns in the Province of Valladolid) respectively.\n\nAfter the death of Ferdinand II, fighting resumed (interspersed with a short truce in 1204 thanks to the marriage of Alphonse IX of León to his niece, Berenguela of Castile); but the marriage was annulled by her father because of the close blood-relationship of the spouses. Finally, the Crowns of both kingdoms were taken by King Ferdinand III of Castile.\n\nThe logical conclusion of these events was that the border was heavily militarized, involving the building of castles and reinforcements of troops in the areas surrounding the Trabancos River, with some castles being erected in the west, such as in Alaejos. Paradoxically, the wars increased the value of the region, and for the first time there began to appear documents recording the area in the files of the cathedrals of Zamora, Salamanca and Segovia including documents regarding: \"Siete Iglesias de Trabancos\" (\"Seven Churches at Trabancos\") in 1178, Alaejos (\"Falafeios\") in 1167, and in 1180, \"Eván de Arriba, Eván de Abajo, Valdefuentes\" and \"Pedroso\" (which are now deserted villages), together with \"Nava del Rey\" in 1265, among others.\n\nThis last date, 1265, corresponds to a document found in the 'Book of Loans' of Salamanca cathedral, which records the result of a new conflict: the battle between the dioceses of Salamanca and Segovia for the possession of the parishes to the east of the Trabancos; an area that hitherto had been accorded little worth. Salamanca had made use of the frontier struggles to take possession of the towns of Medina del Campo, provoking a conflict of interest since the region was under Castilian rule, and Salamanca belonged to the crown of León. In fact, the Salmantinos created new parishes, like \"Siete Iglesias de Trabancos\" in 1167, and Alaejos in 1185.\n\nLooking at the Trabancos today and at a time when it is dry, it might seem preposterous that at one time it held a position of strategic importance for the town of Medina del Campo, and also, for the so-called \"Extremadura Catellana\" (the wildest border of Castile). However, the area's archaeological heritage is fast disappearing.\n\nThe middle and final course of the river Trabancos has been included in the \"ZEPA\" (Zona Especial de Protección para las Aves <nowiki>[Special Zone for Protection of Birds]</nowiki>) \"Tierra de Campiñas\" (\"Land of champaigns\"; Special Protection Area (\"SPA\")).\n\nZEPA SPAs, are catalogued by the member states of the European Union as natural zones of special interest for the conservation of bird species threatened with extinction, in accordance with the criteria established by the community board Birds Directive 79/409/CEE and subsequent modifications by the (Directiva de Aves) \"Aviary Regulation Board\" of the EU.\n\nAlthough the designation also includes a portion of the Guareña River's course to the west, and the Zapardiel River's course to the east, the Trabancos River ZEPA SPA designated area is the largest in the Autonomous Community of Castile and León, since it covers almost 1,400 square kilometres, including the Campo de Peñaranda (in Salamanca), the Moraña (in Ávila) and, especially, a large part of the Tierra de Medina del Campo. In all, 73% of the territory of the Trabancos ZEPA SPA corresponds to the province of Valladolid.\n\nThe designated region is largely uninhabited —97% of the area is agricultural land, with an emphasis on cereal crops and other irrigation farming purposes. The areas of ecological interest are found in the remaining 3% percent of the terrain. The region is characterized by tilled land and pastures, small pine woods and holm oak woods, with interspersed wasteland areas covered in halophile bushes. There are also many small ephemeral ponds; a characteristic of Spanish steppes, which are only water-filled during the winter. From a conservation standpoint, such ponds, like nearby segments of the Trabancos River's banks, are in a precarious ecological state. Nevertheless, the areas are still capable of sustaining the flora and fauna commensurate with a natural riverside environment.\n\nThe Trabancos region stands out for its concentration of great bustards (more than 2000); as well as having the largest reproductive concentration of black-bellied sandgrouses (\"Pterocles orientalis\") in Castile and León (with more than 200 mating pairs). It is also the winter season nesting ground of more than 1,500 red kites (\"Milvus milvus\"). There are also numerous birds of prey; the most abundant are Montagu's harriers (\"Circus pygargus\", 50 mating pairs) and lesser kestrels (\"Falco naumanni\"; almost 150 mating pairs), but there are also hawks, goshawks, falcons, owls, and others. The region is also host to numerous gamebirds, including the red-legged partridge (\"Alectoris rufa\").\n\nDespite their importance, the population of little bustard (\"Tetrax tetrax\") in the region appear to be diminishing. Although not all the species protected in this ZEPA SPA can be listed, the protected area is a migratory crossing site and wintertime nesting area that, along with the Riberas de Castronuño (Valladolid) nature reserve, is frequented by many waterfowl (cranes, geese, etc.), some of which even take advantage of the area ephemeral ponds for nesting during humid winters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45415172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45415172", "title": "Yaacov Oved", "text": "Yaacov Oved\n\nYaacov Oved (born 19 February 1929) is a historian and Professor Emeritus in the Department of History at Tel Aviv University, member of Kibbutz Palmachim, research fellow at Yad Tabenkin: the institute of research and documentation of the kibbutz movement, researcher of the history of communes in the world and co- founder of the International Communal Studies Association.\n\nYaacov Varsano-Oved was born on 19 February 1929 in Haskovo, Bulgaria. When he was eight years old, he immigrated to Israel with his parents, Ovadia and Bella Varsano and brother Eliyahu. The family resided in Tel Aviv. Yaacov went to Echad Haam School and Gymnasia Herzliya High School and joined the Scouts youth movement. In 1946 he enlisted in the \"Hagana\" organization and was a member of the Palmach unit and was assigned by it to be a leader in the Scouts Movement in 1947. In 1949 he was part of a Palmach core-group that established Kibbutz Palmachim. In 1941-1954 he was sent by Hakibbutz Hameuchad to Argentina to work as educator emissary in the youth movement \"Hanoar Hechalutz iBorochovy Hakibbutz Hameuchad\". In 1951, he married Tehila Kiriaty and the couple made their home in Palmachim, where their son and three daughters were born and educated. In 1954-1959 he worked in agriculture on the kibbutz, and from 1959 to 1961 he studied in the two-year higher education course in the Hakibbutz Hameuchad Seminar at Efal. Later he began teaching at the high school in kibbutz Palmachim. In 1967 he set out on a brief mission to Argentina. On this occasion he changed his surname to the Hebrew name Oved.\n\nIn the 1950s he published several articles about Latin American affairs in Israeli journals. In 1958, in one of the articles about Cuba, he predicted that Fidel Castro would overthrow the dictatorship of Batista and start a Socialist revolution. In 1960 he joined the Israel-Cuba Friendship League and in 1964 was part of the League's delegation to Cuba. In the course of his visit he witnessed several facets of the regime that he did not regard favorably, and after the visit he left the League.\n\nIn 1959-1961 he studied in the Higher Education Course of social sciences run by Hakibbutz Hameuchad in Efal. Later he became a teacher at the Kibbutz Palmachim High School. In 1969 he started to study at the Departments of History and Philosophy at Tel Aviv University and graduated with \"Summa cum Laude\". In 1971, he started his PhD at Oxford University. His dissertation was on Anarchism and the Workers’ Movement in Argentina in the Early Twentieth Century. It was supervised by Professor Michael Confino of Tel Aviv University and Professor Ezequiel Gallo of the University of Buenos Aires.\n\nAfter his thesis was approved in 1975 by the Senate of Tel Aviv University, Oved was appointed as a lecturer in the Tel Aviv University's Department of History.\nAt the same time he joined Yad Tabenkin, the Institute for Study and Documentation of the Kibbutz Movement, as a teacher and research associate. It was in this institute that he began to study the history of communes around the world. In 1978, while on a research journey to investigate communes' archives in the United States, he participated in a conference of the American National Historic Communal Studies Association in Omaha Nebraska. In the meeting with the association's president, Donald E Pitzer, he raised the idea of holding an international conference of commune and kibbutz researchers in Israel. Yad Tabenkin undertook the initiative and in 1985, under its auspices, the first international conference of kibbutz and commune scholars took place. At the end of the conference, the International Communal Studies Association was founded. Prof. Oved elected to serve as its Executive Director, a position which he continued to fill until 2004. Since its founding, the association has held 11 tri-annual international conferences in different universities and commune venues around the world. During that period, Yaacov Oved served as the acting chairman of the association.\n\nIn 1994, Yaacov Oved was nominated full professor at Tel Aviv University, retiring in 1998. During the years that followed, he was dedicated to the Yad Tabenkin Communes Department. In this framework he cultivated relations with commune researchers from around the world and with many communes including the Bruderhof communes in the USA, Findhorn in Scotland, Damanur in Italy, Zegg in Germany, Riverside in New Zealand, Twin Oaks in the USA and others. These relationships deepened the ties between the Kibbutz Movement and the world communes. Prof. Oved was devoted also to enlarging the Yad Tabenkin scientific library on communes, whose collection on communes and kibbutz publications has earned a high reputation among scholars of these fields.\n\nYaacov Oved’s PhD thesis on anarchism in the Argentine labor movement in the early 20th century was published as a book in Spanish in 1978 by Siglo XXI Publishing and an extended second edition was printed in 2013 by Imago Mundi, Buenos Aires.\n\nIn 1986, Yaacov Oved published his comprehensive book Two Hundred Years of American Communes, and subsequently published additional books on contemporary communes. In addition to his books about communes, Prof. Oved has published books and articles about anarchism, utopian anarcho-communist philosophy and anarchistic communes in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nIn 2014, he published an article about independent kibbutz high education that reviews the history of the Efal high education courses in which Yaacov Oved was both a student and a teacher.\n\nThe Communal Studies Association, USA, bestowed honorary awards on Prof. Yaacov Oved in the years 2000 and 2004 for his research and contribution to promoting international relations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25960723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25960723", "title": "Yele Sambat", "text": "Yele Sambat\n\nYele Sambat (Devanagari: येले संबत् ) is the lunar calendar used by the Kirat community of Nepal. The Yele Sambat calendar is named after the first Kirat king Yalambar. The Limbus call it \"Yele Tangbe\", the Rais call it \"Yele Dong\", and the Sunuwars call it \"Yele Thoche\".\n\nOn 15 November 2009, Subash Chandra Nembang, Chairperson of the Constituent Assembly (CA) stressed the need for the Government of Nepal to recognize Kirant Yele Sambat and ensure that it would be included in the constitution as annex. On 15 January 2010, the Government of Nepal stated that it would formally recognise Yele Sambat. It is said that this calendar started when the Kirat king Yalambar defeated the Gopal dynasty in the Kathmandu Valley. The Yele Sambat calendar begins on 15 January. This new year day is also celebrated as Maghe Sankranti in Nepal when people eat sweet potato and various kinds of yams and sel roti.\n\nAccording to \"Gopal Vamsawali\", 32 Kirat kings ruled the Kathmandu valley for 1963 years and 8 months (see: किरात येले संवत अभिलेख, किरात येले संवत अध्ययन समन्वय समिति, २०१०, पृष्ठ १३ र पृष्ठ २२७ को प्याराग्राफ १). The Kirat rule ended and the Licchavi rule was started by Jaya Varma in Saka Sambat 107. 78 years of time period is added to convert Saka Sambat into AD, i.e., Saka Sambat 107 + 78 years = 185 AD. The Kirat kings ruled for 1963 years and 8 months. Deducting 185 from 1963 years and 8 months = 1779.8 AD, which is the starting ruling year of the first Kirat king Yalambar. In 2018, adding 1779.8 AD and 2017 AD, the Yele Sambat year comes out to be 3797 years and 8 months. \n\nSource: प्रडा जगदीशचन्द्र रेग्मी, नेपाली किरात जातिको गौरवपूर्ण इतिहासको परिप्रेक्षमा किरात येले संवतको प्रचलन तथा संवैधानिक उपक्रम, किरात येले संवत अध्ययन समन्वय समिति, २०१०, पृष्ठ १३ र पृष्ठ २२७.\n\nAccording to \"Gopal Vamsawali\", 32 Kirat kings ruled the Kathmandu valley. The list of these kings along with their period of rule is given below:\n"}
{"id": "1855190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855190", "title": "Young Vienna", "text": "Young Vienna\n\nYoung Vienna (\"Jung-Wien\") was a society of \"fin de siècle\" writers who met in Vienna's Café Griensteidl and other nearby coffeehouses in the late nineteenth century. \n\nThe group turned away from the prevailing Naturalism of the time and experimented with various facets of Modernism, including Symbolism and Impressionism. In his review of turn of the century Vienna, historian Carl Schorske wrote of the movement that they \"challenged the moralistic stance of nineteenth century literature in favor of sociological truth and psychological - especially sexual - openness.\"\n\nHermann Bahr was considered the group's spokesman. Other members included Arthur Schnitzler, , Peter Altenberg, Richard Beer-Hofmann, Felix Salten, Raoul Auernheimer, Hugo von Hofmannsthal, and Karl Kraus. Kraus would later distance himself from the group, and in his essay \"The Demolished Literature,\" written soon after the Café Griensteidl's demolition in 1897, he criticized the group and predicted that it \"would soon expire for lack of a foyer.\" After the café's demolition the group (sans Kraus) continued to meet at the nearby Café Central. \n\n"}
