{"id": "30811082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30811082", "title": "Archipelagic apron", "text": "Archipelagic apron\n\nAn archipelagic apron is a fan-shaped gently sloping region of sea floor found around oceanic islands, particularly in the south Pacific Ocean. The name was first proposed by Henry William Menard in 1956 because of the resemblance of the slope to an apron. While most such underwater sedimentary surfaces are generally smooth, some are rough in texture. The total volume occupied by an archipelagic apron is often many times that of the adjacent island. Hence, it is unlikely to have formed from sediments washed off the part of the island above sea level. Instead, archipelagic aprons most likely formed from debris avalanches and pyroclastic flows. The material is then reworked by turbidity currents to achieve their current form. Such aprons form about eight percent of the area of the pacific basin.\n"}
{"id": "64501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64501", "title": "Arrondissement", "text": "Arrondissement\n\nAn arrondissement (; ) is any of various administrative divisions of France, Belgium, Haiti, certain other Francophone countries, and the Netherlands.\n\nThe 101 French departments are divided into 342 \"arrondissements\", which may be roughly translated into English as districts. The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture. When an arrondissement contains the prefecture (capital) of the department, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture. Arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes.\n\nA municipal arrondissement (, pronounced ), is a subdivision of the commune, used in the three largest cities: Paris, Lyon, and Marseille. It functions as an even lower administrative division, with its own mayor. Although usually referred to simply as an \"arrondissement,\" they should not be confused with departmental arrondissements, which are groupings of communes within one \"département\". The official translation into English is \"district\".\n\nBelgium is a federalized country which geographically consists of three regions, of which only Flanders (Flemish Region) and Wallonia (Walloon Region) are subdivided into five provinces each; the Brussels-Capital Region is neither a province nor is it part of one.\n\nIn Belgium, there are administrative, judicial and electoral arrondissements. These may or may not relate to identical geographical areas.\n\n\nIn the Netherlands an \"arrondissement\" is a judicial jurisdiction, comprising a number of communes.\n\nSubdivisions of the canton of Bern include districts since 2010, which are called \"arrondissements administratifs\" in French.\n\nIn some post-Soviet states, there are cities that are divided into municipal raioni similarly to how some French cities are divided into municipal arrondissements (see e.g. Raions of cities in Ukraine, Municipal divisions of Russia, Administrative divisions of Minsk).\n\nMost nations in Africa who have been colonised by the French have retained the arrondissement administrative structure. These are normally subunits of a Department, and may either contain or be coequal with Communes (towns). In Mali the arrondissement is a subunit of a Cercle, while in some places arrondissements are essentially subdistricts of large cities.\n\n\nEach of Haiti's ten departments is sub-divided into 42 arrondissements.\n\nIn the Canadian province of Quebec, eight cities are divided into arrondissements, known as boroughs in English. In Quebec, boroughs are provincially organized and recognized sub-municipal entities that have mayors and councillors.\n"}
{"id": "4518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4518", "title": "Borneo", "text": "Borneo\n\nBorneo (; , ) is the third-largest island in the world and the largest in Asia. At the geographic centre of Maritime Southeast Asia, in relation to major Indonesian islands, it is located north of Java, west of Sulawesi, and east of Sumatra.\n\nThe island is politically divided among three countries: Malaysia and Brunei in the north, and Indonesia to the south. Approximately 73% of the island is Indonesian territory. In the north, the East Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak make up about 26% of the island. Additionally, the Malaysian federal territory of Labuan is situated on a small island just off the coast of Borneo. The sovereign state of Brunei, located on the north coast, comprises about 1% of Borneo's land area. A little more than half of the island is in the Northern Hemisphere including Brunei and the Malaysian portion, while the Indonesian portion spans both the Northern and Southern hemispheres.\n\nBorneo is home to one of the oldest rainforests in the world.\n\nThe island is known by many names. Internationally it is known as \"Borneo\", after Brunei, derived from European contact with the kingdom in the 16th century during the Age of Exploration. The name \"Brunei\" possibly derives from the Sanskrit word \"\" (), meaning either \"water\" or Varuna, the Hindu god of rain. Indonesian natives called it \"Kalimantan,\" which was derived from the Sanskrit word \"Kalamanthana,\" meaning \"burning weather island\" (to describe its hot and humid tropical weather).\n\nIn earlier times, the island was known by other names. In 977, Chinese records began to use the term \"Po-ni\" to refer to Borneo. In 1225, it was also mentioned by the Chinese official Chau Ju-Kua (趙汝适). The Javanese manuscript Nagarakretagama, written by Majapahit court poet Mpu Prapanca in 1365, mentioned the island as \"Nusa Tanjungnagara\", which means the island of the Tanjungpura Kingdom.\n\n by the South China Sea to the north and northwest, the Sulu Sea to the northeast, the Celebes Sea and the Makassar Strait to the east, and the Java Sea and Karimata Strait to the south. To the west of Borneo are the Malay Peninsula and Sumatra. To the south and east are islands of Indonesia: Java and Sulawesi, respectively. To the northeast are the Philippine Islands. With an area of , it is the third-largest island in the world, and is the largest island of Asia (the largest continent). Its highest point is Mount Kinabalu in Sabah, Malaysia, with an elevation of . Before sea levels rose at the end of the last Ice Age, Borneo was part of the mainland of Asia, forming, with Java and Sumatra, the upland regions of a peninsula that extended east from present day Indochina. The South China Sea and Gulf of Thailand now submerge the former low-lying areas of the peninsula. Deeper waters separating Borneo from neighbouring Sulawesi prevented a land connection to that island, creating the divide known as Wallace's Line between Asian and Australia-New Guinea biological regions.\nThe largest river system is the Kapuas in West Kalimantan, with a length of . Other major rivers include the Mahakam in East Kalimantan (), the Barito in South Kalimantan (), Rajang in Sarawak () and Kinabatangan in Sabah (). Borneo has significant cave systems. In Sarawak, the Clearwater Cave has one of the world's longest underground rivers while Deer Cave is home to over three million bats, with guano accumulated to over deep. The Gomantong Caves in Sabah has been dubbed as the \"Cockroach Cave\" due to the presence of millions of cockroaches inside the cave. The Gunung Mulu National Park in Sarawak and Sangkulirang-Mangkalihat Karst in East Kalimantan which particularly a karst areas contains thousands of smaller caves.\n\nThe Borneo rainforest is estimated to be around 140 million years old, making it one of the oldest rainforests in the world. It is the centre of the evolution and distribution of many endemic species of plants and animals, and the rainforest is one of the few remaining natural habitats for the endangered Bornean orangutan. It is an important refuge for many endemic forest species, including the Borneo elephant, the eastern Sumatran rhinoceros, the Bornean clouded leopard, the hose's palm civet and the dayak fruit bat.\n\nPeat swamp forests occupy the entire coastline of Borneo. The soil of the peat swamp are comparatively infertile, while it is known to be the home of various bird species such as the hook-billed bulbul, helmeted hornbill and rhinoceros hornbill. There are about 15,000 species of flowering plants with 3,000 species of trees (267 species are dipterocarps), 221 species of terrestrial mammals and 420 species of resident birds in Borneo. There are about 440 freshwater fish species in Borneo (about the same as Sumatra and Java combined). The Borneo river shark is known only from the Kinabatangan River. In 2010, the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) stated that 123 species have been discovered in Borneo since the \"Heart of Borneo\" agreement was signed in 2007.\nThe WWF has classified the island into seven distinct ecoregions. Most are lowland regions:\nThe highest elevations of Mount Kinabalu are home to the Kinabalu mountain alpine meadow, an alpine shrubland notable for its numerous endemic species, including many orchids.\n\nThe island historically had extensive rainforest cover, but the area was reduced due to heavy logging by the Indonesian and Malaysian wood industry, especially with the large demands of raw materials from industrial countries along with the conversion of forest lands for large-scale agricultural purposes. Half of the annual global tropical timber acquisition comes from Borneo. Palm oil plantations have been widely developed and are rapidly encroaching on the last remnants of primary rainforest. Forest fires since 1997, started by the locals to clear the forests for plantations were exacerbated by an exceptionally dry El Niño season, worsening the annual shrinkage of the rainforest. During these fires, hotspots were visible on satellite images and the resulting haze frequently affected Brunei, Indonesia and Malaysia. The haze could also reach southern Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam and the Philippines as evidenced on the 2015 Southeast Asian haze.\n\nIn November 2018, scientists reported the discovery of the oldest known figurative art painting, over 40,000 (perhaps as old as 52,000) years old, of an unknown animal, in the cave of Lubang Jeriji Saléh on the island of Borneo.\n\nAccording to ancient Chinese (977), Indian and Japanese manuscripts, western coastal cities of Borneo had become trading ports by the first millennium AD. In Chinese manuscripts, gold, camphor, tortoise shells, hornbill ivory, rhinoceros horn, crane crest, beeswax, lakawood (a scented heartwood and root wood of a thick liana, \"Dalbergia parviflora\"), dragon's blood, rattan, edible bird's nests and various spices were described as among the most valuable items from Borneo. The Indians named Borneo \"Suvarnabhumi\" (the land of gold) and also \"Karpuradvipa\" (Camphor Island). The Javanese named Borneo \"Puradvipa\", or Diamond Island. Archaeological findings in the Sarawak river delta reveal that the area was a thriving centre of trade between India and China from the 6th century until about 1300.\n\nStone pillars bearing inscriptions in the Pallava script, found in Kutai along the Mahakam River in East Kalimantan and dating to around the second half of the 4th century, constitute some of the oldest evidence of Hindu influence in Southeast Asia. By the 14th century, Borneo became a vassal state of Majapahit (in present-day Indonesia), later changing its allegiance to the Ming dynasty of China. The religion of Islam entered the island in the 10th century, following the arrival of Muslim traders who later converted many indigenous peoples in the coastal areas.\n\nThe Sultanate of Brunei declared independence from Majapahit following the death of Majapahit Emperor in mid-14th century. During its golden age under Bolkiah from the 15th century to the 17th century, the Bruneian Empire ruled almost the entire coastal area of Borneo (lending its name to the island due to its influence in the region) and several islands in the Philippines. During the 1450s, Shari'ful Hashem Syed Abu Bakr, an Arab born in Johor, arrived in Sulu from Malacca. In 1457, he founded the Sultanate of Sulu; he titled himself as \"Paduka Maulana Mahasari Sharif Sultan Hashem Abu Bakr\". Following their independence in 1578 from Brunei's influence, the Sulu's began to expand their thalassocracy to parts of the northern Borneo. Both the sultanates who ruled northern Borneo had traditionally engaged in trade with China by means of the frequently-arriving Chinese junks. Despite the thalassocracy of the sultanates, Borneo's interior region remained free from the rule of any kingdoms.\n\nSince the fall of Malacca in 1511, Portuguese merchants traded regularly with Borneo, and especially with Brunei from 1530. Having visited Brunei's capital, the Portuguese described the place as surrounded by a stone wall. While Borneo was seen as rich, the Portuguese did not make any attempts to conquer it. The Spanish visit to Brunei led to the Castilian War in 1578. The English began to trade with Sambas of southern Borneo in 1609, while the Dutch only began their trade in 1644: to Banjar and Martapura, also in the southern Borneo. The Dutch tried to settle the island of Balambangan, north of Borneo, in the second half of the 18th century, but withdrew by 1797. In 1812, the sultan in southern Borneo ceded his forts to the English East India Company. The English, led by Stamford Raffles, then tried to establish an intervention in Sambas but failed. Although they managed to defeat the Sultanate the next year and declared a blockade on all ports in Borneo except Brunei, Banjarmasin and Pontianak, the project was cancelled by the British Governor-General Lord Minto in India as it was too expensive. At the beginning of British and Dutch exploration on the island, they described the island of Borneo as full of head hunters, with the indigenous in the interior practising cannibalism, and the waters around the island infested with pirates, especially between the north eastern Borneo and the southern Philippines. The Malay and Sea Dayak pirates preyed on maritime shipping in the waters between Singapore and Hong Kong from their haven in Borneo, along with the attacks by Illanuns of the Moro Pirates from the southern Philippines, such as in the Battle off Mukah.\nThe Dutch began to intervene in the southern part of the island upon resuming contact in 1815, posting Residents to Banjarmasin, Pontianak and Sambas and Assistant-Residents to Landak and Mampawa. The Sultanate of Brunei in 1842 granted large parts of land in Sarawak to the English adventurer James Brooke, as a reward for his help in quelling a local rebellion. Brooke established the Kingdom of Sarawak and was recognised as its rajah after paying a fee to the Sultanate. He established a monarchy, and the Brooke dynasty (through his nephew and great-nephew) ruled Sarawak for 100 years; the leaders were known as the White Rajahs. Brooke also acquired the island of Labuan for Britain in 1846 through the Treaty of Labuan with the Sultan of Brunei, Omar Ali Saifuddin II on 18 December 1846. The region of northern Borneo came under the administration of North Borneo Chartered Company following the acquisition of territory from the Sultanates of Brunei and Sulu by a German businessman and adventurer named Baron von Overbeck, before it was passed to British Dent brothers (comprising Alfred Dent and Edward Dent). Further enroachment by the British reduced the territory of Brunei. This led the 26th Sultan of Brunei, Hashim Jalilul Alam Aqamaddin to appeal the British to stop, and as a result a Treaty of Protection was signed in 1888, rendering Brunei a British protectorate.\nBefore the acquisition by the British, the Americans also managed to establish their temporary presence in northwestern Borneo after acquiring a parcel of land from the Sultanate of Brunei. A company known as American Trading Company of Borneo was formed by Joseph William Torrey, Thomas Bradley Harris and several Chinese investors, establishing a colony named \"Ellena\" in the Kimanis area. The colony failed and was abandoned, due to denials of financial backing, especially by the US government, and to diseases and riots among the workers. Before Torrey left, he managed to sell the land to the German businessman, Overbeck. Meanwhile, the Germans under William Frederick Schuck was awarded a parcel of land in northeastern Borneo of the Sandakan Bay from the Sultanate of Sulu where he operate business and export large quantities of arms, opium, textiles and tobacco to Sulu before the land were also passed to Overbeck by the Sultanate.\nPrior to the recognition of Spanish presence in the Philippine archipelago, a protocol known as the Madrid Protocol of 1885 was signed between the governments of the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain in Madrid to cement Spanish influence and recognise their sovereignty over the Sultanate of Sulu—in return for Spain's relinquishing its claim to the former possessions of the Sultanate in northern Borneo. The British administration then established the first railway network in northern Borneo, known as the North Borneo Railway. During this time, the British sponsored a large number of Chinese workers to migrate to northern Borneo to work in European plantation and mines, and the Dutch followed suit to increase their economic production. By 1888, North Borneo, Sarawak and Brunei in northern Borneo had become British protectorate. The area in southern Borneo was made Dutch protectorate in 1891. The Dutch who already claimed the whole Borneo were asked by Britain to delimit their boundaries between the two colonial territories to avoid further conflicts. The British and Dutch governments had signed the Anglo-Dutch Treaty of 1824 to exchange trading ports in Malay Peninsula and Sumatra that were under their controls and assert spheres of influence. This resulted in indirectly establishing British- and Dutch-controlled areas in the north (Malay Peninsula) and south (Sumatra and Riau Islands) respectively.\n\nDuring World War II, Japanese forces gained control and occupied most areas of Borneo from 1941–45. In the first stage of the war, the British saw the Japanese advance to Borneo as motivated by political and territorial ambitions rather than economic factors. The occupation drove many people in the coastal towns to the interior, searching for food and escaping the Japanese. The Chinese residents in Borneo, especially with the Sino-Japanese War in Mainland China mostly resisted the Japanese occupation. Following the formation of resistance movements in northern Borneo such as the Jesselton Revolt, many innocent indigenous and Chinese people were executed by the Japanese for their alleged involvement.\n\nIn Kalimantan, the Japanese also killed many Malay intellectuals, executing all the Malay Sultans of West Kalimantan in the Pontianak incidents, together with Chinese people who were already against the Japanese for suspecting them to be threats. Sultan Muhammad Ibrahim Shafi ud-din II of Sambas was executed in 1944. The Sultanate was thereafter suspended and replaced by a Japanese council. The Japanese also set-up \"Pusat Tenaga Rakjat\" (PUTERA) in the Indonesian archipelago in 1943, although it was abolished the following year when it become too nationalistic. Some of the Indonesian nationalist like Sukarno and Hatta who had returned from Dutch exile began to co-operate with the Japanese. Shortly after his release, Sukarno became President of the Central Advisory Council, an advisory council for south Borneo, Celebes, and Lesser Sunda, set up in February 1945.\n\nSince the fall of Singapore, the Japanese sent several thousand of British and Australian prisoners of war to camps in Borneo such as Batu Lintang camp. From the Sandakan camp site, only six of some 2,500 prisoners survived after they were forced to march in an event known as the Sandakan Death March. In addition, of the total of 17,488 Javanese labourers brought in by the Japanese during the occupation, only 1,500 survived mainly due to starvation, harsh working conditions and maltreatment. The Dayak and other indigenous people played a role in guerrilla warfare against the occupying forces, particularly in the Kapit Division. They temporarily revived headhunting of Japanese toward the end of the war, with Allied Z Special Unit provided assistance to them. Australia contributed significantly to the liberation of Borneo. The Australian Imperial Force was sent to Borneo to fight off the Japanese. Together with other Allies, the island was completely liberated in 1945.\n\nTowards the end of the war, Japan decided to give an early independence to a new proposed country of Indonesia on 17 July 1945, with an Independence Committee meeting scheduled for 19 August 1945. However, following the surrender of Japan to the Allied forces, the meeting was shelved. Sukarno and Hatta continued the plan by unilaterally declaring independence, although the Dutch tried to retake their colonial possession in Borneo. The southern part of the island achieved its independence through the Proclamation of Indonesian Independence on 17 August 1945. The reaction was relatively muted with little open fighting in Pontianak or in the Chinese majority areas. While nationalist guerrillas supporting the inclusion of southern Borneo in the new Indonesian republic were active in Ketapang, and to lesser extent in Sambas where they rallied with the red-white flag which became the flag of Indonesia, most of the Chinese residents in southern Borneo expected to be liberate by Chinese Nationalist troops from Mainland China and to integrate their districts as an overseas province of China.\n\nIn May 1945, officials in Tokyo suggested that whether northern Borneo should be included in the proposed new country of Indonesia should be separately determined based on the desires of its indigenous people and following the disposition of Malaya. Sukarno and Mohammad Yamin meanwhile continuously advocated for a Greater Indonesian republic. As the President of the new republic, perceiving the British trying to maintain their presence in northern Borneo and Malay Peninsula, he decided to launch a military infiltration later known as the confrontation between 1962 until 1969. In 1961, Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman of the independent Federation of Malaya desired to unite Malaya, the British colonies of Sarawak, North Borneo, Singapore and the Protectorate of Brunei under the proposed Federation of Malaysia. The idea was heavily opposed by the governments in both Indonesia and the Philippines as well from Communist sympathisers and nationalist in Borneo. As a response to the growing opposition, the British deployed their armed forces to guard their colonies against Indonesian and communist revolts, which was also participated by Australia and New Zealand.\nThe Philippines opposed the newly proposed federation, claiming the eastern part of North Borneo (today the Malaysian state of Sabah) as part of its territory as a former possession of the Sultanate of Sulu. The Philippine government mostly based their claim on the Sultanate of Sulu's cession agreement with the British North Borneo Company, as by now the Sultanate had come under the jurisdiction of the Philippine republican administration, which therefore should inherit the Sulu former territories. The Philippine government also claimed that the heirs of the Sultanate had ceded all their territorial rights to the republic.\n\nThe Sultanate of Brunei at the first welcomed the proposal of a new larger federation. Meanwhile, the Brunei People's Party led by A.M. Azahari desired to reunify Brunei, Sarawak and North Borneo into one federation known as the North Borneo Federation (), where the Sultan of Brunei would be the head of state for the federation—though Azahari had his own intention to abolish the Brunei Monarchy, to make Brunei more democratic, and to integrate the territory and other former British colonies in Borneo into Indonesia, with the support from the latter government. This directly led to the Brunei Revolt, which thwarted Azahari's attempt and forced him to escape to Indonesia. Brunei withdrew from being part of the new Federation of Malaysia due to some disagreements on other issues while political leaders in Sarawak and North Borneo continued to favour inclusion in a larger federation.\n\nWith the continuous opposition from Indonesia and the Philippines, the Cobbold Commission was established to discover the feeling of the native populations in northern Borneo; it found the people greatly in favour of federation, with various stipulations. The federation was successfully achieved with the inclusion of northern Borneo through the Malaysia Agreement on 16 September 1963. Until present, the area in northern Borneo still subjected to attacks by Moro Pirates since the 18th century, and militants such as the Abu Sayyaf since 2000 in the frequent cross border attacks. During the administration of Philippine President of Ferdinand Marcos, the President made some attempts to destabilise the state of Sabah, although his plan failed and resulted in the Jabidah massacre and later in insurgency in the southern Philippines.\n\nThe demonym for Borneo is Bornean.\n\nBorneo has 21.3 million inhabitants (in 2014), a population density of . Most of the population lives in coastal cities, although the hinterland has small towns and villages along the rivers. The population consists mainly of Dayak ethnic groups, Malay, Banjar, Orang Ulu, Chinese and Kadazan-Dusun. The Chinese, who make up 29% of the population of Sarawak and 17% of total population in West Kalimantan, Indonesia are descendants of immigrants primarily from southeastern China.\n\nIn Sabah during the administration of Mustapha Harun of the United Sabah National Organisation (USNO) in the 1970s, thousands of Muslim immigrants and refugees from the southern Philippines of Mindanao and Sulawesi of Indonesia were given sanctuary and later identity cards in the bid to increase the Muslim population of the state: a policy later known as Project IC. Due to the high number of crimes attributed to the new migrant populations, ethnic tension between the indigenous and migrant populations has risen up to the present.\nIn Kalimantan since the 1990s, the Indonesian government has undertaken an intense transmigration program; to that end it has financed the relocation of poor, landless families from Java, Madura, and Bali. By 2001, transmigrants made up 21% of the population in Central Kalimantan. Since the 1990s, the indigenous Dayak and Malays have resisted encroachment by these migrants, and violent conflict has occurred between some transmigrant and indigenous populations. In the 1999 Sambas riots, Dayaks and Malays joined together to massacre thousands of the Madurese migrants. In Kalimantan, thousands were killed in 2001 fighting between Madurese transmigrants and the Dayak people in the Sampit conflict.\n\nThe following is a list of 20 largest cities in Borneo by population, based on 2010 census for Indonesia and 2010 census for Malaysia. Population data signifies number within official districts and does not include adjoining or nearby conurbation outside defined districts—such as Kota Kinabalu and Banjarbaru. In other instances, the district area is much larger than the actual city it represents thereby relatively inflating the population estimate by including the surrounding rural population—in cases such as Tawau and Palangka Raya.\n\nThe island of Borneo is divided administratively by three countries.\n\nBrunei: Census of Population 2001\nislands administered as Borneo, geologically part of Borneo, on nearshore islands (2.5 km off the main island of Borneo)\nCitypopulation.de reports on Official Decennial Censuses in 2010 for both Indonesia and Malaysia, independent estimate for Brunei.\n\nBorneo's economy depends mainly on agriculture, logging and mining, oil and gas, and ecotourism. Brunei's economy is highly dependent on the oil and gas production sector, and the country has become one of the largest oil producers in Southeast Asia. The Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak are both top exporters of timber. Sabah is also known as the agricultural producer of rubber, cacao, and vegetables, and for its fisheries, while both Sabah and Sarawak export liquefied natural gas (LNG) and petroleum. The Indonesian provinces of Kalimantan are mostly dependent on mining sectors despite also being involved in logging and oil and gas explorations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "277919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277919", "title": "Brie (region)", "text": "Brie (region)\n\nBrie is a historic region of northern France notable in modern times for Brie cheese. It was once divided into three sections ruled by different feudal lords: the western \"Brie française\", corresponding roughly to the modern department of Seine-et-Marne in the Île-de-France region; the eastern \"Brie champenoise\", forming a portion of the modern department of Marne in the historic region of Champagne (part of modern-day Grand Est); and the northern \"Brie pouilleuse\", forming part of the modern department of Aisne in Picardy.\n\nThe Brie forms a plateau with few eminences, varying in altitude between roughly in the west, and in the east. Its scenery is varied by forests of some size—the chief being the Forêt de Sénart, the , and the . The surface soil is clay in which are embedded fragments of siliceous sandstone, used for millstones and constructional purposes; the subsoil is limestone. The Marne and its tributaries the Grand Morin and the Petit Morin are the chief rivers, but the region is not abundantly watered and the rainfall is only between .\n\nMain towns:\n\nMain rivers:\n\nMain forests:\n"}
{"id": "31131527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31131527", "title": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (M)", "text": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (M)\n\nA | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | Y | Z\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51612371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51612371", "title": "Carl Uhlig", "text": "Carl Uhlig\n\nCarl Ludwig Gustav Uhlig (29 August 1872, in Heidelberg – 12 September 1938, in Tübingen) was a German geographer and meteorologist. He was the son of philologist Gustav Uhlig (1838–1914).\n\nHe studied natural sciences at the universities of Heidelberg, Freiburg, Göttingen and Berlin, receiving his doctorate in 1897 with the thesis \"Die Veränderungen der Volksdichte im nördlichen Baden 1852–1895\". From 1900 to 1906 he worked as a meteorologist and geographer for the government of German East Africa, during which time, he carried out investigations of Kilimanjaro and Mount Meru (1901) as well as scientific studies of Lake Victoria (1904). In 1903 he visited Egypt and in 1906 he conducted research in Transvaal and Cape Colony.\n\nFrom 1907 he taught classes on the geography of German East Africa at the Seminar for Oriental languages in Berlin. In 1908 he obtained his habilitation, then in 1910 was named a full professor of geography at the University of Tübingen. In 1926/27 he was appointed university rector. In addition to his African studies, he also conducted geographical research in the United States, Palestine, Eastern Europe and Scandinavia.\n\nThe now vanished Uhlig glacier on Kilimanjaro was named after him.\n"}
{"id": "2377911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2377911", "title": "Cassiterides", "text": "Cassiterides\n\nThe Cassiterides (“Tin Islands”, from Greek κασσίτερος, \"kassíteros\" “tin”), are an ancient geographical name of islands that were regarded as situated somewhere near the west coasts of Europe.\n\nHerodotus (430 BC) had only vaguely heard of the Cassiterides, \"from which we are said to have our tin,\" but did not discount the islands as legendary. Later writers — Posidonius, Diodorus Siculus, Strabo and others – call them smallish islands off (\"some way off,\" Strabo says) the northwest coast of the Iberian Peninsula, which contained tin mines or, according to Strabo, tin and lead mines. A passage in Diodorus derives the name rather from their nearness to the tin districts of Northwest Iberia. Ptolemy and Dionysios Periegetes mentioned them – the former as ten small islands in northwest Iberia far off the coast and arranged symbolically as a ring, and the latter in connection with the mythical Hesperides. The islands are described by Pomponius Mela as rich in lead; they are mentioned last in the same paragraph he wrote about Cadiz and the islands of Lusitania, and placed \"in Celtici\". Following paragraphs describe the Île de Sein and Britain.\n\nProbably written in the first century BC, the verse \"Circumnavigation of the World\", whose anonymous author is called the \"Pseudo-Scymnus,\" places two tin islands in the upper part of the Adriatic Sea and mentioned the market place Osor on the island of Cres, where extraordinarily high quality tin could be bought. Pliny the Elder, on the other hand, represents the \"Cassiterides\" as fronting Celtiberia.\n\nAt a time when geographical knowledge of the West was still scanty, and when the secrets of the tin trade were still successfully guarded by the seamen of Gades (modern Cadiz) and others who dealt in the metal, the Greeks knew only that tin came to them by sea from the far West, and the idea of tin-producing islands easily arose. Later, when the West was better explored, it was found that tin actually came from two regions: Galicia, in the northwest of the Iberia, and Devon and Cornwall in southwest Britain. Diodorus reports: \"For there are many mines of tin in the country above Lusitania and on the islets which lie off Iberia out in the ocean and are called because of that fact the Cassiterides.\" According to Diodorus tin \"also\" came from Britannia to Gaul and thence was brought overland to Massilia and Narbo. Neither of these could be called small islands or accurately described as off the northwest coast of Iberia, and so the Greek and Roman geographers did not identify either as the Cassiterides. Instead, they became a third, ill-understood source of tin, conceived of as distinct from Iberia or Britain.\n\nStrabo says that a Publius Crassus was the first Roman to visit the Tin Islands and write a first-hand report. This Crassus is thought to be either the Publius Licinius Crassus Dives who was a governor in Hispania in the 90s, or his grandson by the same name, who in 57–56 BC commanded Julius Caesar's forces in Armorica (Brittany), which places him near the mouth of the Loire river.\n\nModern writers have made many attempts to identify them. Small islands off the northwest coast of the Iberian Peninsula, the headlands of that same coast, the Isles of Scilly, Cornwall, and the British Isles as a whole, have all in turn been suggested, but none suits the conditions. Neither the Iberian islands nor the Isles of Scilly contain tin, at least in significant quantities. It seems most probable, therefore, that the name \"Cassiterides\" represents the first vague knowledge of the Greeks that tin was found overseas, somewhere in, off, or near Western Europe.\n\nGavin de Beer has suggested that Roger Dion had solved the puzzle by bringing to bear a chance remark in Avienus' late poem \"Ora maritima\", which is based on early sources: the tin isles were in an arm of the sea within sight of wide plains and rich mines of tin and lead, and opposite two islands — a further one, Hibernia, and a nearer one, Britannia. \"Before the estuary of the Loire became silted up in late Roman times, the Bay of Biscay led into a wide gulf, now represented by the lower reaches of the river Brivet and the marshes of the Brière, between Paimboeuf and St. Nazaire, in which were a number of islands. The islands and shores of this gulf, now joined together by silt, are crowded with Bronze Age foundries that worked tin and lead; Pénestin and the tin headland are just north of them; and there can be no doubt that the famous tin islands were there.\" De Beer confirms the location from Strabo: the Cassiterides are ten islands in the sea, north of the land of the Artabrians in the northwest corner of Hispania. E. Thomas from the French BRGM showed in a 2004 report that tin mines were probably operated by the Romans at La Hye, near Ploërmel. This tin might have transited down the Oust river and the Vilaine river to the sea, where it could be transferred on seagoing ships, possibly at Pénestin, giving some support to de Beer's suggestion above.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15182656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15182656", "title": "Core frame model", "text": "Core frame model\n\nThe Core frame model is a model showing the urban structure of the Central Business District of a town or city. The model was first suggested by Ronald R. Boyce and Edgar M. Horwood in 1959.\n\nThe model includes an inner core where land is expensive and used intensively, resulting in vertical development. This area is the focus of the transport system and has a concentrated daytime population. The outer core and frame have lower land values and are less intensively developed. The various land uses are linked to the bid rent theory. The zone of assimilation and zone of discard are together called the zone of transition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26294060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26294060", "title": "Department of Economic And Social Geography of Russia", "text": "Department of Economic And Social Geography of Russia\n\nThe Department of Economic And Social Geography of Russia () is one of the oldest and the largest Russian educational and research centers in economic geography and regional science\n\nThe Department of Economic And Social Geography of Russia is the oldest department of the geographical faculty in Moscow State University. It was founded in 1929 by Nikolay Baranskiy as a chair of economic geography on geographical branch of the mehaniko-mathematical faculty. In 1933 it was a part of the soil-geographical faculty as a Chair of Economic Geography of the USSR. After foundation of the geographical faculty in Moscow State University in 1938, the department became a constant division in its structure. Since 1992 it has been called the department of economic and social geography of Russia.\n\nThe first head of the department was its founder, N. Baranskiy, professor of the faculty and member-correspondent in Russian Academy of Sciences. Throughout its 80-year history the department has been headed by professor P. Stepanov (1941–1943; 1946–1949), Julian G. Saushkin (1349–1381), A. T. Khruschev (1981–2000), Vladimir E. Shuvalov (2000-2012) and V. Baburin (since July 2012).\n\nScientists of the chair have created a school of thought known as the \"Soviet Regional (Rayon) school of economic geography\". Its theoretical bases have been made by professors Nikolay Baranskiy and Nikolay Kolosovskiy and were developed by J. Saushkin's works. Many professors of the department brought the big contributions to the formation and development of the theory and methodology of social and economic geography, ecpecially geography of industry, agriculture, transport, non-productive sphere, geography of the population, geourbanistics, and methods of economic-geographical researches.\n\nThe staff includes 6 doctors, 14 candidates of sciences, 6 professors, 9 senior lecturers, 1 assistant, 6 scientific employees and 5 leading engineers.\n\nProfessors:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10663414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10663414", "title": "Don Castro Regional Recreation Area", "text": "Don Castro Regional Recreation Area\n\nDon Castro Regional Recreation Area is a regional park located in Hayward, California. It is part of the East Bay Regional Parks system.\n\n"}
{"id": "55875193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55875193", "title": "George W. G. Allen", "text": "George W. G. Allen\n\nMajor George W. G. Allen (1891–1940) pioneered aerial photography for the purpose of archaeological research.\n\nBorn in Oxford on 12 January 1891, the eldest son of John Allen (1857-1934), George Allen was educated at Boxgrove School, Guildford, and Clifton College. He attended the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, but as he was not able to get into the Royal Engineers he left to become an engineer as a civilian, and worked for Humphreys and Sons, consulting engineers as a waterworks engineer on the East Coast of Africa, before becoming a manager of his father's company. During the First World War he served in the Royal Tank Corps and was awarded the Military Cross, re-joining his father's company after the war.\n\nIn 1929 he learned to fly and purchased a red De Havilland Puss Moth, which he named \"Maid of the Mist\", the first privately owned aeroplane in Oxford, which he kept at his own airfield at Clifton Hampden. Piloting his aircraft and using a hand‐made camera, he made aerial pictures mostly taken between 1933 and 1938 of known, and previously unknown, unrecorded archaeological sites.\n\nHe took about 2000 photographs, mostly oblique, taken from an altitude of only 300–450 metres, a contribution that enabled interpretation by O. G. S. Crawford of archaeological sites in Wiltshire, Hampshire, Kent, Somerset, Hertfordshire, Dorset, Gloucestershire and Lincolnshire, but most especially in Oxfordshire.\n\nIn 1936 he was elected a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries.\n\nHe was killed in a motor‐cycle accident in November 1940.\n\nAfter his death, his camera and photographs were given to the Ashmolean Museum.\n"}
{"id": "225944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225944", "title": "ISO 3166-2:ES", "text": "ISO 3166-2:ES\n\nISO 3166-2:ES is the entry for Spain in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Spain, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for two levels of subdivisions:\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Spain. The second part is one or two letters. For the provinces, the letters were originally used in vehicle registration plates. The codes for the following provinces are based on the names of their capital cities rather than their own names:\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nISO 639-1 codes are used to represent subdivision names in the following administrative languages:\n\n\nExcept where noted, the names given are in Spanish (Castilian). In autonomous communities and provinces where any of the regional languages is the sole official language, the Spanish name is given in square brackets for information. In subdivisions where a regional language is official alongside Spanish, both names are listed vertically.\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\nThe following two areas not covered by European Union Customs arrangements are also exceptionally reserved ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes on the request of the World Customs Organization:\n\nHowever, these codes do not correspond in any way to the ISO 3166-2 codes of the territories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "274621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274621", "title": "Index of India-related articles", "text": "Index of India-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to India or Indian culture include:\n\nList of India-related topics\n\n\"People are listed by their first names.\"\n\n1 SGM - 3 STR - 1206 in India - 1984 anti-Sikh riots - 2002 Gujarat violence - 2005 in India (\"previous years\") - 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake in India - 2005 Mumbai floods - 2010 Commonwealth Games - 2015 Ballabhgarh riot - 9th Lancers - 2006 Varanasi bombings\n\n1960s in India - 1970s in India - 1980s in India - 1990s in India - 2000s in India\n\nA. R. Rahman - A.Vellalapatti - Aadityana - Aaj Tak- Aambaliyasan - Aantaliya - Aarambhada - Aaqua - aarti - Aashayein foundation - Abdul Kalam - Abdul Karim Telgi - Abhayapuri - Abhishek Chatterjee - Abiramam - Abrama - Abu Road - abugida - Acacia - Achabal - Achalpur - Achampudur - Acharapakkam - Acharipallam - Achhalda - Achhnera - Achipatti - Adalaj - Adampur - Adari - Adi Sankara - Adikaratti - Adil Shahi - Adiramapattinam - Adityapur - Aduthurai - Aero-India show - Afzalgarh - Afzalpur - Agaram - Agarwal Mandi - Agastheeswaram - Agastya - AgileNCR - Agra - Ahar River - Ahimsa - Ahiwara - Ahmad Shah Bahadur - Ahmed Shah Abdali - Ahmedabad District - Ahmedabad - Ahmedgarh - Ahmednagar District - Ahmednagar - Ahraura - Aiho - Ailum - Air Force Area - Air India Flight 182 - Aishwarya Rai - Aistala - Ajaigarh - Ajanta Caves - Ajhuwa - Ajit Jogi - Ajmer - Ajmer-Merwara - Ajnala - Ajra - Akalgarh, Ludhiana - Akalgarh, Phagwara - Akaltara - Akathiyoor - Akbar - Akbarnama - Akbarpur - Akhnoor - Akkarampalle - Akkayapalle - Aklera - Akoda - Akodia - Akola District - Akola - Akot - Aksai Chin-Akshay Kumar - Ala ud din Khalji - Alagappapuram - Alaknanda River - Alampalayam - Alampur - Alang Ship Recycling Yard - Alanganallur - Alangayam - Alangulam - Alanthurai - Alapakkam - Alappuzha - Alappuzha district - Alappuzha Lighthouse - Alawalpur - Albert Ekka - Aldona - Alexander Cunningham - Alexander Kinloch Forbes - Alexander the Great - Ali Pur - Aliganj - Aligarh University - Alipurduar Railway Junction - All India Insurance Employees Association - Allahabad University - Allahabad - Allahganj - Allapur - Allapuram - Almora - Alnavar - Alot - Alpur - Alwar District - Alwar - Alwarkurichi - Alwarthirunagiri - Amadalavalasa - Amanganj - Amanpur - Amaravati - Amaravathi- Amaravathy River - Amarpatan - Amarpur - Amarwara - Ambad - Ambada - Ambagarh Chowki - Ambah - Ambala Cantonment - Amateur radio in India - Ambapali - Ambarnath - Ambasamudram - Ambedkar - Ambehta - Ambejogai - Amber - Ambikanagara - Ambikapur Part-X - Ambivali Tarf Wankhal - American-Born Confused Desi - Amet - Amguri - Amila - Amilo, Azamgarh- Amilo, Varanasi - Aminagar Sarai - Aminagar Urf Bhurbaral - Amkula - Amlabad - Amloh - Ammainaickanur - Ammapettai - Ammathottil - Ammavarikuppam - Ammoor - Amodghata - Amraudha - Amravati District, Maharashtra - Amravati, Andhra Pradesh - Amravati, Maharashtra - Amrita Learning - Amritsar - Amritsar Cantonment - Amritsar District - Amtala - Amul - Anaiyur - Anakaputhur - Anand District - Anand Nagar - Anand, Gujarat - Anandapur - Anandnagar - Anantapur District - Anantapur - Ananthapuram - Ancharakandy - Andada - Andaman and Nicobar Islands - Andaman Islands - Andamanese languages - Andhra Pradesh - Andhra Pradesh Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Union - Andhra Pradesh Auto and Trolley Drivers Union - Andipalayam - Andipatti Jakkampatti - Andul - Angarpathar - Anglo-Indian - First Anglo-Maratha War - Anglo-Mysore Wars - First Anglo-Sikh War - Angul District - Angul, India - Angustha purusha - Anisingaraju - Anjad - Anjali - Anjangaon - Anjugramam - Anklav - Ankleshwar - Anklesvar INA - Anksa - Ankurhati - Anna Hazare - Annamalai Hills - Annamalai Nagar - Annigeri - Annur - Anpara - Antah - Antari - Anthiyur - Anugul - Anup Nagar - Anupam Kher - Anupgarh - Anuppur District - Anuppur - Anupshahr - Appakudal - Apoorva Chitra - Aquem - Arachalur - Arakandanallur - Arakonam - Arambag - Arang - Aranthangi - Arasiramani - Aravakurichi - Aravalli Range - Aravankad - Archaeological Survey of India - Architecture of India - Arcot - Areraj - Argari - Arikamedu - Arimalam - Ariyappampalayam - Ariyur - Arjuna - Arkalgud - Arkavathy River - Armapur Estate - Armed Forces Medical College, Pune - Armenian Church, Chennai - Armenians in India - Arnia - Arookutty - Aroor - Arra - Arranged marriage - Artha Shastra - Arumanai - Arumbavur - Arumuganeri - Arunachal Pradesh - Arundhati Roy - Arya Samaj - Indo-Aryan migration - Aryan - Asan Khurd - Asansol - Asarganj - Asaria - Ashok Kumar - Ashoka - Ashokapuram - Ashoknagar District - Ashoknagar Kalyangarh - Ashoknagar - Ashrafpur Kichhauchha - Ashram - Ashta, Madhya Pradesh - Ashta, Maharashtra - Ashwagandha - Asia - Asians in South Africa - Asifabad - Asika - Asind - Asirgarh - Askot - Assam - Assamese language - Assandh - Assemblies Jehovah Shammah - Atarra - Atasu - Ateli - Athagad - Athanur - Athimarapatti - Athipattu - Athmallik - Athni - Athur - Atmakur, Nellore - Atrauli - Atraulia - Attayampatti - Atul - Aurad - Auraiya - Aurangabad Bangar - Aurangabad District, Bihar - Aurangabad District, Maharashtra - Aurangabad, Bihar - Aurangabad, Maharashtra - Aurangzeb - Aurobindo - Auroville - Avadattur - Avalpoondurai - Avanashi - Avaniapuram - Avinissery - Awadh - Awadhi language - Awagarh - Awantipora - Awasthi - Ayakudi - Aygudi - Ayodhya - Ayothiapattinam - Ayya Vaikundar - Ayyalur - Ayyampalayam, Dindigul - Ayyampettai - Ayyavazhi- Azhagiapandiapuram - Azhikode North - Azhikode South - Azizpur - Azmatgarh\n\nB. Mallapuram - B. Meenakshipuram - Babai, Madhya Pradesh - Babar Pur - Babarpur Ajitmal - Babhulgaon - Babiyal - Bablari Dewanganj - Babrala - Babri Mosque - Babua Kalan - Babugarh - Babur - Baburnama - Bachhraon - Bachhrawan - Bada Malhera - Badagaon - Badagoan - Badami Bagh - Badami Cave Temples - Badarpur, Assam - Badarpur, Delhi - Badarpur, Mehsana - Badarpur Railway Town - Badarwas - Badawada - Bade Bacheli - Badepalle - Badgam - Badhagachhi - Badharghat - Badhni Kalan - Badkuhi - Badmash.org - Badnagar - Badnawar - Badod - Badoda - Badra - Badrinathpuri - Baduria - Bagaha - Bagalkot - Bagalkot District - Bagasara - Bagbahara - Bagbera - Bagelkhand - Bagepalli - Bagnan - Bagru - Bah - Bahadur Shah II - Bahadur Shah of Gujarat - Bahmani Sultanate - Bahadurganj - Bahadurgarh - Bahbari Gaon - Baheri - Bahirgram - Bahjoi - Bahraich - Bahraich District - Bahsuma - Bahula - Bahuwa - Baidyabati - Baihar - Baikunthpur, Koriya - Baikunthpur, Rewa - Bail Hongal - Bairabi - Bairat - Bairatisal - Bairgania - Bajala - Baji Rao I - Baji Rao II - Bajna - Bajpur - Bajva - Bakani - Bakewar - Bakht Singh - Bakhtiarpur - Bakiabad - Bakloh - Bal Gangadhar Tilak - Bal Thackeray - Balachaur - Balaghat - Balaghat District - Balagoda (Bolani) - Balakrishnampatti - Balakrishnapuram - Balangir - Balangir District - Balapallam - Balapur, Akola district - Balapur Fort - Balaram Pota - Balarampur - Balasamudram - Balasinor - Balasore - Balasore District - Baldeo - Baldeogarh - Baliari - Balichak - Balimela - Balkundra - Ballarpur - Ballavpur - Ballia - Ballia District - Balod - Baloda - Baloda Bazar - Balsokra - Balugaon - Bambolim - Bamhani - Bamor - Bamora - Bamun Sualkuchi - Bamunari - Banapur - Banarhat Tea Garden - Banarsi - Banas River - Banaur - Banbasa - Banda - Banda District - Bandarulanka - Bandhavgarh National Park - Bandhgora - Bandia - Bandikui - Bandipore - Bandipur National Park - Bandra - Bangalore - Bangalore Rural - Banganapalle - Bangarapet - Bangarmau - Bangawan - Bangladesh - Bangramanjeshwar - Bangura - Banihal - Bank of India - Bank of Madras - Bankapura - Banki - Bankner - Bankra - Banmankhi Bazar - Bannur - Bansatar Kheda - Bansberia - Bansdih - Bansgaon - Banshra - Bansi - Banswara - Bantwa - Banupur - Bara Bamonia - Barabazar - Baragaon - Barahiya - Baraily - Barajamda - Baranagar - Baranagar Ramakrishna Mission - Barapali - Barauli - Barauni IOC Township - Barbari (AMC Area) - Barbigha - Barbil - Bardhaman - Bardhaman District - Bareilly - Bareilly District - Barela - Bargarh - Bargarh District - Barghat - Bargur - Barhalganj - Barhani Bazar - Barhi - Bari Brahmana - Bari Sadri - Barigarh - Barijhati - Bariwala - Barjora - Barkakana - Barkhera - Barkot - Barmer - Barmer District - Barnala - Barpathar - Barpeta Road - Barrackpur Cantonment - Barua Sagar - Barughutu - Baruihuda - Baruipur - Barwadih - Barwaha - Barwala - Barwani - Barwani District - Barwar - Basar - Basaria - Basavakalyan - Basavana Bagevadi - Basava Premanand - Bashkali - Bashohli - Basna - Basni Belima - Basoda - Bassi Pathana - Bastar - Bastar District - Bastar Division - Basudebpur -Basudih - Basugaon - Basukinath - Bathinda - Batlagundu - Batote - Battle of Buxar - Battle of Saragarhi - Baudhgarh - Bavla - Bawal - Bawana - Bawani Khera - Bay of Bengal - Beas - Beas River - Beed - Beed District - Beejoliya Kalan - Begamganj - Begampur - Begowal - Begum Pur - Begumabad Budhana - Begun - Begusarai - Behat - Behea - Behror - Behta Hajipur - Bela Pratapgarh - Belagachhia - Beldanga - Beldubi - Belebathan - Belgaum - Belgaum Cantonment - Belgaum District - Beliatore - Bellaguntha - Bellampalli - Bellary - Bellary District - Belonia - Belpahar - Belsand - Beltangadi - Belthara Road - Belur - Belur Math - Belvata - Bemetra - Bengal - Bengali language - Bengali poetry - Bengali script - Beniganj - Benoît de Boigne - Beohari - Berach River - Berar - Berasia - Bermo - Bertrand-François Mahé de La Bourdonnais - Bestavaripeta - Beswan - Betel nut - Bethamcheria - Betma - Betul - Betul-Bazar - Betul District - Betwa River - Bewar - Bhabat - Bhabhi - Bhadarsa - Bhadaur - Bhadohi - Bhadrak - Bhadrak District - Bhadreswar, Hooghly - Bhadreswar, Kutch - Bhagatdih - Bhagavad Gita - Bhagirathi River - Bhagur - Bhagwant Nagar - Bhainsa - Bhainsdehi - Bhalariya - Bhalki - Bhalswa Jahangir Pur - Bhamodi - Bhandara - Bhandara District - Bhandardaha - Bhander - Bhangar Raghunathpur - Bhangi - Bhangra - Bhangri Pratham Khanda - Bhanjanagar - Bhankharpur - Bhanowara - Bhanpura - Bhanpuri - Bhanvad - Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited Ranipur - Bharat Ratna - Bharata - Bharatanatyam - Bharatganj - Bharathapuzha River - Bharatiya Janata Party - Bharatpur - Bharatpur District - Bhargain - Bharoli Kalan - Bharthana - Bharuch INA - Bharuhana - Bharveli - Bharwari - Bhatapara - Bhatni Bazar - Bhatpar Rani - Bhaurasa - Bhavani - Bhavani River - Bhavani, Tamil Nadu - Bhavesh - Bhilwara - Bhavanisagar - Bhavra - Bhawan Bahadur Nagar - Bhawani Mandi - Bhawanigarh - Bhayavadar - Bhedaghat - Bheemavaram - Bheemunipatnam - Bhikangaon - Bhikhi - Bhikhiwind - Bhilai Charoda - Bhilai Nagar - Bhilakhedi - Bhima River - Bhimarayanagudi - Bhimashankar - Bhind - Bhind District - Bhinder, Udaipur - Bhinga - Bhisiana - Bhitarwar - Bhiwadi - Bhogadi - Bhogaon - Bhogpur - Bhoj - Bhoj Wetland - Bhojpur Dharampur - Bhojpuri language - Bhojudih - Bhokardan - Bhokarhedi - Bholar Dabri - Bhonsle - Bhopal - Bhopal Agency - Bhopal Disaster - Bhopal District - Bhopal Division - Bhopal state - Bhopawar Agency - Bhota - Bhowali - Bhowrah - Bhuban - Bhubaneswar - Bhucho Mandi - Bhulath - Bhulepur - Bhuli - Bhum - Bhuntar - Bhusawar - Bhutan - Biaora - Biate - Bidar - Bidar District - Bidasar, Churu - Bidasar, Sikar - Bidhuna - Bighapur - Bihar - Bihari languages - Bihpuria - Bijapur, Karnataka - Bijapur district, Chhattisgarh - Bijapur district, Karnataka - Bijbehara - Bijeypur - Bijni - Bijpur - Bijuri - Bikaner - Bikaner District - Bikapur - Bikihakola - Bikketti - Bikramganj - Bilandapur - Bilara - Bilariaganj - Bilasipara - Bilaspur - Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh - Bilaspur District, Chhattisgarh - Bilaspur District, Himachal Pradesh - Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh - Bilaua - Bilgram - Bilhaur - Biligirirangan Hills - Bilimora - Billawar - Biloli - Bilpahari - Bilpura - Bilram - Bilsanda - Bilsi - Bimal Jalan - Bina Etawa - Bina Railway Colony - Bindki - Binika - Bipra Noapara - Biramitrapur - Birbal - Birgaon - Birlapur - Birnagar - Birsinghpur - Birur - Birwadi - Bisalpur - Bisanda Buzurg - Bisauli - Bishama Katek - Bisharatganj - Bishna - Bisokhar - Biswan - Biswanath Chariali - Black Hole of Calcutta - BMS College of Engineering - Bodeli - Bodh Gaya - Bodhi tree - Bodinayakkanur - Bodri - Bofors Scandal - Bohari - Bokajan - Bokakhat - Bokaro Steel City - Bollywood - Bombay - Bombay Hospital - Bombay Presidency - Bombay State - Bombay Stock Exchange - Bombay Talkies - Bombooflat - Bommanahalli - Bommasandra - Bongaigaon - Boothapandi - Boothipuram - Borgolai Grant No.11 - Bori Wildlife Sanctuary - Boriavi - Borivali - Botad - Boudh - Boudh District - Bowali - Brahma - Brahmakulam - Brahmana Periya-Agraharam - Brahmani River - Bramhapuri - Brahmaputra River - Brahmaputra Valley semi-evergreen forests - Brahmic family - Brajarajnagar - Brihadeshvara Temple - British East India Company - British Empire - British India - Buckingham Canal - Buddhism - Buddhism in India - Budha - Budha Theh - Budhana - Budhgaon - Budhlada - Budhpura - Bugganipalle - Bugrasi - Buguda - Bugyal - Buldhana - Bundela - Bundeli - Bundelkhand - Bundi - Bundi District - Bundu - Burdak - Burhanpur - Burhanpur District - Burari - Burhar - Buria - Buxar - Buxar District - Buxwaha - Byadgi - Byasanagar - Byatarayanapura - Bhai Rupa\n\nCalapor - Calcutta - Cambay - Canacona - Computek India - Canada India Institute-Industry Link Project - Carapur - Carnatic music - Carnatic region - Cart Road - caste system - Central Delhi - Central India Agency - Central Provinces and Berar - Central Railway - Chabua - Chachanda - Chachaura-Binaganj - Chak Bankola - Chak Bansberia - Chak Enayetnagar - Chak Imam Ali - Chak Kashipur - Chakapara - Chakdaha - Chakeri - Chakghat - Chaklasi - Chaksu - Chakulia - Chalala - Chalisgaon - Chaliyar River - Chalthan - Chalukya - Chamarajanagar - Chamarajanagar District - Chambal Division - Chambal River - Chamoli - Chamoli District - Chamoli Gopeshwar - Champdani - Champua - Chamrail - Chanasma - Chandameta-Butaria - Chandannagar - Chandapur - Chandaur - Chandela - Chandia, Madhya Pradesh - Chandigarh - Chandil - Chandili - Chandkheda - Chandla - Chandlodiya - Chandpur - Chandra Taal - Chandrababu Naidu - Chandragupta Maurya - Chandrakona - Chandrapur - Chandrapur Bagicha - Chandrapur District - Chandrapura - Chandur - Chandurbazar - Channagiri - Channarayapattana - Chanod - Chanpatia - Chapari - Chapui - Char Brahmanagar - Char Maijdia - Charari Sharief - Charibatia - Charthaval - Chas - Chata Kalikapur - Chatakonda - Chatra - Chaudhari Devi Lal - Chauhan - Chaul - Chaumuhan - Chaupal (public space) - Chaupal, Himachal Pradesh - Chaurai Khas - Chavakkad - Chechakhata - Chechat - Cheeka - Chekonidhara - Chelad - Chelora - Chembakur - Chembur Causeway - Chemmumiahpet - Chenab River - Chenani - Chengam - Chengamanadu, Kollam district - Chengamanad, Ernakulam district - Chennai - Chennai Central - Chennai Egmore - Chennai Port - Chennasamudram - Chennimalai - Cheppad - Cheppad Mar Dionysios IV of the East - Chera Dynasty - Cheranallur - Cheranmadevi - Chermanangad - Cherrapunji - Cheruthazham - Cheruvannur - Chess - Chetpet - Chettiarpatti - Chettinad - Chettipalayam - Chettithangal - Chevvoor - Cheyyar - Cheyyar River - Chhabra - Chhachhrauli - Chhapar - Chhaprabhatha - Chhaprauli - Chharchha - Chharra Rafatpur - Chhata - Chhatari - Chhatatanr - Chhath - Chhatarpur - Chhatarpur District - Chhatral INA - Chhattisgarh - Chhattisgarhi language - Chhawla - Chhaya - Chhibramau - Chhindwara - Chhindwara District - Chhipabarod - Chhora - Chhota Chhindwara (Gotegaon) - Chhota Gobindpur - Chhota Udaipur - Chhotaputki - Chhoti Sadri - Chhuikhadan - Chhutmalpur - Chicalim - Chichli - Chicholi - Chicken's Neck - Chidambaram - Chidambaram Temple - Chik Ballapur - Chikhli, Maharashtra - Chikiti - Chikkamagaluru - Chikkamagaluru District - Chiknayakanhalli - Chikodi - Chikrand - Chilakaluripet - Child prostitution - Chilka Lake - Chilkana Sultanpur - Chilla Saroda Bangar - Chiloda(Naroda) - Chimbel - Chinchani - Chinchinim - Chincholi - Chindro - Chingleput - Chinna Anuppanadi - Chinnachowk - Chinnakkampalayam - Chinnalapatti - Chinnamanur - Chinnampalayam - Chinnasalem - Chinnasekkadu - Chinnavedampatti - Chintalavalasa - Chintamani - Chirgaon - Chiria - Chirkunda - Chirmiri - Chitapur - Chitbara Gaon - Chitgoppa - Chithode - Chitradurga - Chitradurga District - Chitrakoot Dham (Karwi) - Chittagong - Chittoor - Chittoor District - Chittorgarh - Chittorgarh District - Chittur-Thathamangalam - Chockli - Chohal - Chola dynasty - Chola Nadu - Cholapuram - Chomu - Choornikkara - Chopan - Chopda - Chorvad - Chota Nagpur Plateau - Chota Nagpur dry deciduous forest - Choto Haibor - Choudhary Charan Singh - Choutuppal - Chowwara - Christian Friedrich Schwarz - Christianity - Chuari Khas - Chunchupalle - Lala Jaswantrai Churamani - Church of North India - Church of South India - Churhat - Churi - Churk Ghurma - Churu - Churu District - Chutney - Cilappatikaram - Cinema of India - Cis-Sutlej states - Civilian Honors: Bharat Ratna, Padma Bhushan, Padma Shri, Padma Vibhushan - Clement Town - Coastal Andhra - Cochin Jews - Coimbatore - Coimbatore district - Coleroon River - Colgong - Colin Mackenzie - Colonelganj - Colvale - Communications in India - Company rule in India - Congress (I) Party - Constitution of India - Cooper's Camp - Coromandel Coast - Courtallam - Cricket in India - Crime in Mumbai - Crore - Cuddalore - Cuddalore District - Cuddalore Government Museum - Cuddapah - Culture of India - Curchorem Cacora - Curti - Cuttack - Cuttack District - C. V. Raman - Cyber Crime Investigation Cell\n\nDabbawala - Daboh - Dadasaheb Phalke Award - Dadhapatna - Dadra and Nagar Haveli - Dadri - Dafahat - Dagshai - Dahegam - Dahod - Dahod District - Dainhat - Daitari - Dakshin Baguan - Dakshin Jhapardaha - Dakshin Rajyadharpur - Dakshina Kannada - Dalavaipatti - Daler Mehndi - Dalit theology - Dalkhola - Dalli-Rajhara - Dallo Pura - Dalmau - Dalsinghsarai - Dalurband - Daman and Diu - Daman Ganga River - Damnagar - Damodar River - Damoh - Damoh District - Damua - Dangerous & Offensive Trades - Danguwapasi - Danish East India Company - Danish India - Dankaur - Dapoli Camp - Dappaankuthu - Darappur - Dargajogihalli - Dariyabad, Barabanki - Darjeeling - Darlawn - Daroha - Darwha - Daryapur Banosa - Edgar J DaSilva - Das (surname) - Dasna - Dasnapur - Dasua - Dataganj - Datia - Dattapur Dhamangaon - Datia District - Daudnagar - Daulatabad, Maharashtra - Doulatabad, Mahbubnagar - Doultabad, Medak - Daulatpur - Daurala - Davanagere - Davanagere District - Davlameti - Davorlim - Dayal Pur - Dayalbagh - Dayanidhi Maran - Debagarh - Debagarh District - Debipur - Deccan - Deccan States Agency - Deccan sultanates - Deccan thorn scrub forests - Deccan Traps - Deeg - Deesa - Deglur - Dehri - Dehu Road - Delhi - Delhi Mass Rapid Transit System - Delhi Municipal Corporation - Delhi Sultanate - Demographics of India - Demographics of Nepal - Denkanikottai - Deobandi - Deogarh - Deodara - Deogarh, Madhya Pradesh - Deogarh, Uttar Pradesh - Deoghar - Deolali Pravara - Deoli - Deomali - Deomali Peak - Deoranian - Deori - Deoria district - Deoria, Uttar Pradesh - Deoria (Lok Sabha constituency) - Deorikalan - Depalpur - Dera Baba Nanak - Dera Bassi - Dera Gopipur - Deracolliery Township - Dergaon - Desaiganj - Desert National Park - Desh - Deshon Ka Sartaj Bharat - Desi - Desur - Deulgaon Raja - Deuli - Dev Anand - Dev Prayag - Devadanapatti - Devanagari - Devanangurichi - Devanhalli - Devarshola - Devendranagar - Devgadbaria - Devgarh - Devgarh, Maharashtra - Devgarh, Rajasthan - Devhara - Devsar - Dewas - Dewas District - Dewhadi - Dhalavoipuram - Dhali - Dhaliyur - Dhaluwala - Dhamanagar - Dhamdha - Dhamnod - Dhampur - Dhana - Dhanauha - Dhanauli - Dhanaura - Dhandadihi - Dhandera - Dhandhuka - Dhanera - Dhanishka - Dhangar - Dhanpuri - Dhanyakuria - Dhar - Dhar District - Dharamjaigarh - Dharamkot, Himachal Pradesh - Dharamkot, Moga - Dharampuri - Dharamsala - Dharangaon - Dharapadavedu - Dharapur - Dharapuram - Dharasuram - Dharchula Dehat - Dhariawad - Dharma - Dharmabad - Dharmadom - Dharmanagar - Dharmapur - Dharmapuri - Dharmapuri District - Dharoti Khurd - Dharuhera - Dharur - Dharwad - Dharwad District - Dhatau - Dhatrigram - Dhaunsar - Dhaura Tanda - Dhaurehra - Dhebar Lake - Dhekiajuli - Dhenkanal (princely state) - Dhenkanal, India - Dhenkanal district - Dhilwan - Dhing - Dhola, Gujarat - Dholka - Dholpur - Dholpur District Dhoni- Dhoraji - Dhrol - Dhruva - Dhuilya - Dhule - Dhule District - Dhulian - Dhundh - Dhundhar - Dhunn - Dhupguri - Dhusaripara - Dibai - Dibiyapur - Didihat - Digapahandi - Digboi Oil Town - Digdoh - Dighawani - Dighwara - Dignala - Digras - Digvijaygram - Diken - Dildarnagar Fatehpur Bazar - Dilip Kumar - Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge - Dilwara Temples - Dimaruguri - Dina Nagar - Dinapur Cantonment - Dinapur Nizamat - Dindigul - Dindigul district - Dindori District - Dineshpur - Dinhata - Dipka - Dirba - Direct Action Day - Districts of Andhra Pradesh - Districts of Assam - Districts of Bihar - Districts of Chhattisgarh - Districts of Delhi - Districts of Gujarat - Districts of India - Districts of Karnataka - Districts of Kerala - Districts of Madhya Pradesh - Districts of Maharashtra - Districts of Odisha - Districts of Punjab (India) - Districts of Rajasthan - Districts of Tamil Nadu - Districts of Uttar Pradesh - Districts of West Bengal - Divisions of Bihar - Diwali - Dnyaneshwar - Do Bigha Zameen - Doab - Doboka - Doctrine of lapse - Dod Ballapur - Dogadda - Doghat - Dohrighat - Doiwala - Dokmoka - Dombivli - Domjur - Dommara Nandyal - Dondaicha-Warwade - Dongar Parasia - Dongargaon - Dongragarh - Donimalai Township - Donkamokam - Doom Dooma - Doordarshan - Dosa - Dostpur - Dowleswaram - Dravidian languages - Dravidian mural painting - Dravidian race - Dubrajpur - Dudhani - Dudhi - Dugda - Dulhipur - Duliajan No.1 - Duliajan Oil Town - Dum Dum - Dumar Kachhar - Dumarkunda - Dumraon - Dundahera - Dungamal - Dungargarh - Dungarpur - Dungarpur District - Dungra - Durga Nagar Part-V - Durllabhganj - Duru-Verinag - Dutch East India Company - Dwarahat - Dwarka - Dwijesh Chandra Sen - Dyane\n\nEast Calcutta Wetlands - East Deccan dry evergreen forests - East Delhi - East Godavari - East India Company - East Pakistan - Eastern Coastal Plains - Eastern Ghats - Eastern Highlands moist deciduous forests - Eastern States Agency - Economy of India - Ecoregions of India - Edaganasalai - Edaikodu - Edakalinadu - Edappadi - Edathala - Eddumailaram - Education in India - Egarkunr - Egra - EID Parry - Ekambara kuppam - Ekdil - Eklahare - Eklingji - Eksara - Elamo-Dravidian languages - Elampillai - Elathur - Elayavoor - Elayirampannai - Election Commission of India - Electricity in India - Elephant - Elephanta Caves - Elephanta Island - Ellenabad - Ellora Caves - Elumalai - Eluru - Emblem of India - Emperor of India - English-language television - Eral - Erandol - Eravinalloor - Erich (town) - Eriodu - Ernakulam - Ernakulam District - Erode - Erode District - Erramala - Erumaipatti - Eruvadi - Ethapur - Etmadpur - Ettayapuram - Ettimadai - European colonies in India - Eve teasing - Ezhudesam-\n\nFakir Mohan Senapati- Family names - Fareed Zakaria - Faizganj - Faizpur - Falakata - Farakhpur - Faridnagar - Fariha - Farooqnagar - Farrakka Barrage Township - Farrukhnagar - Fatehganj Pashchimi - Fatehganj Purvi - Fatehgarh - Fatehgarh Churian - Fatehnagar - Fatehpur - Fatehpur Chaurasi - Fatehpur Sikri - Fatellapur - Fauna and flora of India - Fazilka - Ferozepur Jhirka - Fertilizer Corporation of India Township - Firozpur - Firozpur Cantonment - First Anglo-Maratha War - First Anglo-Mysore War - First Anglo-Sikh War - First battle of Panipat - First Battle of Tarain - Flag of India - Forbesganj - Foreign relations of India - Foreign relations of Oman - Foundation Course to Indian Civil Services - Fourth Anglo-Mysore War - Fourteenth Finance Commission of India - Freelandgunj - French East India Company - French India - French Institute of Pondicherry - Frezarpur - FRI and College Area\n\nG. Udayagiri - Gabberia - Gadag-Betigeri - Gadag District - Gadarpur - Gadarwara - Gadchiroli - Gadchiroli District - Gaddi annaram - Gadhada - Gadhinglaj - Gadhra - Gadwal - Gaekwad - Gagret - Gahadvala - Gairatganj - Gairkata - Gajapathinagaram - Gajendragarh - Gajraula - Gajsinghpur - Gajularega - Gakulnagar - Ganapathipuram - Ganaur - Gandai - Ganderbal - Gandevi - Gandhara - Gandhi - Gandhi (film) - Gandhi-Irwin Pact - Gandhinagar - Gandhigram - Gandhinagar District - Gandhinagar, Tamil Nadu - Ganesha - Ganeshpur - Gangaghat - Gangaikondan - Gangakhed - Gangapur - Gangapur City - Gangarampur - Gangavalli - Gangawati - Ganges River - Gangoh - Gangtok - Ganguvarpatti - Ganj Dundawara - Ganj Muradabad - Garacharma - Garalgachha - Garautha - Gardhiwala - Garhakota - Garhi Pukhta - Garhi-Malhara - Garhmukteshwar - Garhshanker - Garhwal Division - Gariadhar - Garoth - Garshyamnagar - Garulia - Gaur - Gaur, West Bengal - Gaura Barhaj - Gaurella - Gauri Bazar - Gauribidanur - Gauripur - Gausganj - Gautama Buddha - Gavi Gangadhareshwara Temple - Gawan - Gayespur - Geedam - Geography of India - Geography of Nepal - Geography of Pakistan - Georai - George Everest - Gerard Lake, 1st Viscount Lake - Ghagga - Ghaggar River - Ghanaur - Ghanshyam Das Birla - Ghansor - Ghantapada - Gharaunda - Gharghoda - Gharoli - Gharonda Neemka Bangar - Ghat - Ghatam - Ghatampur - Ghatanji - Ghatkeser - Ghatlodiya - Ghatshila - Ghazipur - Ghaznavid Empire - ghee - Gheora - Ghiraur - Ghitorni - Gho Manhasan - Ghoga - Ghogha - Ghoghardiha - Ghorabandha - Ghorawal - Ghorsala - Ghosi - Ghosia Bazar - Ghoti Budruk - Ghughuli - Ghugus - Ghulewadi - Ghumarwin - Ghuwara - Gidderbaha - Gidi - Gird, India - Girnar - Goa - Goaljan - Goasafat - Gobindgarh - Gobindpur, Jharkhand - Gobindpur, Punjab - Gobranawapara - Gochar - Godavari-Krishna mangroves - Godavari River - Godhar - Godoli - Godwar - Gogaon - Gogapur - Gogri Jamalpur - Gohad - Gohana - Gohand - Gohpur - Gokal Pur - Prakash Gokarn - Gokhivare - Gola Gokarannath - Golconda - Golokganj - Gomoh - Gondi people - Gondi language - Gondi people - Gondia - Gondia District - Gondwana (region) - Gondwana (ancient continent) - Gopabandhu Das -Goniana - Gonikoppal - Gopalasamudram - Gopalpur - Gopamau - Gopiganj - Gopinathpur, West Bengal - Gora Bazar - Gorah Salathian - Gorakhpur - Goraya - Goredi Chancha - Gormi - Gosainganj - Gossaigaon - Gottikere - Goundampalayam - Government of India - Government Museum (Bangalore) - Government Museum, Chennai - Government Museum, Karur - Government Museum, Mathura - Government Museum, Pudukkottai - Government Museum, Tiruchirappalli - Governor-General of India - Great Nicobar - Greater Mumbai - Greco-Buddhism - Green card scheme in Odisha - GSFC Complex INA - Gua - Gubbi - Gudibanda - Guindy National Park - Guirim - Gujarat - Gujarati language - Gulabpura - Gulaothi - Gularia Bhindara - Gulariya - Gulbarga - Gulbarga District - Guledgudda - Gulf of Cambay - Gulf of Kutch - Gulf of Mannar - Gulzarilal Nanda - Guma - Gumia - Gummidipoondi - Gun Carriage Factory Jabalpur - Guma, India - Guna - Guna, India - Guna District - Gundlupet - Gunnaur - Guntur - Guntur District - Gunupur - Gupta script - Gupta dynasty - Gupta Empire - Gurgaon - Gurgaon District - Gurgaon Rural - Guriahati - Gurmatkal - Gurmukhi - Guru Har Sahai - Gursahaiganj - Gursarai - Guru Nanak - Gurukul - Guskara - Gutka - Gwalior - Gwalior District - Gwalior Division - Gwalior Residency - Gwalior State\n\nH. D. Deve Gowda - Habibpur - Hadgaon - Hadoti - Hafizpur - Haidergarh - Haileymandi - Haj House (Mumbai) - Hajan - Hajipur - Hajira INA - Hajo (India) - Haldaur - Haldia - Haldibari - Halebidu - Haliyal - Halol - Haludbani - Halvad - Hampi - Hamren - Handia, Uttar Pradesh - Handia, Madhya Pradesh - Handia (drink) - Handiaya - Handwara - Hangal - Hanuman - Hanumangarh - Hanumanthampatti - Haora - Harda - Harda District - Harduaganj - Hargaon - Harharia Chak - Haridwar - Haridwar district - Hari Singh - Hariharpur - Harij - Harish-Chandra - Harishpur - Harit Pradesh - Harpalpur - Harpanahalli - Harrai - Harraiya - Harsawa - Harsha - Harshad Mehta - Harsud - Harur - Harveypatti - Haryana - Hashish - Hasanpur - Hasayan - Hassan - Hassan District - Hassanpur - Hastsal - Hatgachha - Hathin - Hatibandha - Hatkachora - Hatod - Hatpipalya - Hatsimla - Hatti Gold Mines - Haveri - Haveri District - Hazrat Mahal - Hebbagodi - Hebbalu - Heggadadevanakote - Hemant Kumar - Henry Thomas Colebrooke - Hephthalite - Herbert Benjamin Edwardes - Herbertpur - Heriok - Herohalli - Hesla - Hidimba Devi Temple - Hijra (India) - Hijuli - Hill station - Himachal Pradesh - Himalaya - Himalayan subtropical pine forests - Himalayan Tahr - Hindalgi - Hindi - Hindoria - Hindu Inheritance (Removal of Disabilities) Act, 1928 - Hindu Kush - Hinduism - Hinduja brothers - Hindupur - Hindustan Lever Limited - Hindustan Paper Corporation Ltd. Township Area Panchgram - Hindustani language - Hindustani Music - - Hindusthan Cables Town - Hindutva - Hindu Rashtra - Hinglish - Hinjilicut - Hiranagar - Hirapur, Balaghat - Hirapur, Khurda - Hirapur, Uttar Pradesh - Hirekerur - Hisar - History of Bangladesh - History of Goa - History of India - History of Pakistan - History of Patna - History of South Asia - History of South India - History of the Punjab - Hisua - Hnahthial - Hojai - Holidays in India - Holkar - Homnabad - Honnali - Homosexuality in India - Hooghly District - Hooghly River - Hoovina Hadagalli - Hosabettu - Hosanagara - Hosdurga - Hoshang Shah - Hoshangabad - Hoshangabad District - Hoshangabad Division - Hoskote - Housing society - Howli - Howraghat - Hoysala architecture - Hoysala Empire - Hubbathala - Hubli-Dharwad - Hukeri - Huligal - Humayun - Hunas - Hunasamaranahalli - Hunsur - Hupari - Hussainabad (Jharkhand) - Hussainpur - Hyder Ali - Hyderabad, India - Hyderabad State\n\nI. K. Gujral - Ibrahim Quli Qutb Shah Wali - Ibrahimpur, Azamgarh - Ibrahimpur, Ranga Reddy - Ichalkaranji - Ichchapuram - Ichchhapor - Ichhapur Defence Estate - Ichhawar - Idikarai - Idukki - Idukki District - Idukki Township - Iglas - Ikauna - Iklehra - Ilanji - Ilayaraaja - Ilkal - Iltifatganj Bazar - Iluppaiyurani - Iluppur - Immadihalli -Inam Karur - Indapur - Indergarh - India - India as a Secular State - India at the 2005 World Games - India Backbone Implementation Network - India Club, London - India Elements - India For Sports - India Health Initiative - India in Wimbledon 2017 - India Inclusion Summit - India International Institute of Democracy and Election Management - India men's junior national softball team - India national cricket team in 2012 - India National PolioPlus - India National Youth Orchestra - India Partners - - India Stack - India Telecom - India Today - India Unbound - India Water Portal - - Indiacom - Indian Administrative Service - Indian Aerospace and Engineering - Indian Air Force - Indian Airlines - Indian architecture - Indian Armed forces rank flags - Indian Board of School Education - Indian Brethren - Indian citizenship - Indian City Statistics - Indian Communist Party (Sen) - Indian Council of Agricultural Research - Indian Council of Education - Indian cuisine - Indian cricket team - Indian English - Indian family name - Indian film - Indian general elections, 2004 - Indian Genetic Disease Database - Indian geostrategy - Indian Idol Academy - Indian Institute of Ayurvedic Pharmaceutical Sciences - Indian Institute of Education and Business Management - Indian Institute for Research in Numismatic Studies - Indian Institute of Aeronautical Engineering & Information Technology - Indian Institute of Aeronautics - Indian Institute of Fire Engineering, Nagpur - Indian Institute of Planning and Management - Indian Institute of Science - Indian Institutes of Management - Indian Institutes of Technology - Indian independence movement - Indian Institute of Astrophysics - Indian Institute of Information and Management Society - Indian MRO Industry - Indian National Army - Indian National Army in Singapore - Indian National Congress - Indian National Democratic Front - Indian natural history - Indian numbering system - Indian numerals - Indian Ocean - Indian Oil Corporation - Indian Orthodox Church - Indian Police Service - Indian Railways - Indian Rhinoceros - Indian School of Media - Indian science - Indian Space Research Organisation - Indian subcontinent - Indian Telecommunications Service - Indian Veterinary Research Institute - Indian writing in English - India's Great Driving Challenge - Indic scripts - Indi-pop - Indira Gandhi - Indira Gandhi International Airport - Indira Gandhi National Park - Indlii - Indo-Aryan languages - Indo-European languages - Indo-Fijian - Indo-Gangetic plain - Indo-Greek Kingdom - Indo-Iranian languages - Indo-Pakistani Wars - Indomalaya - Indore - Indore District - Indore Division - Indragarh - Indranagar - Indus River - Indus Valley Civilization - Infanticide - Infosys - Injambakkam - INRegistry - - Iringaprom - Iriveri - Irugur - Islam - Islamic Empires in India - Islamnagar - Isnapur - Isri - Itarsi - Itaunja - Iyengar - Iyer - India Internet Exchange - Izzatnagar\n\nJ. R. D. Tata - Jabalpur - Jabalpur Cantonment - Jabalpur District - Jabalpur Division - Jadavpur University - Jadugora - Jafarpur - Jaffrabad - Jafrabad - Jagadanandapur -Jagadish Mohanty-Jagadishpur - Jagalur - Jagathala - Jagdish Chandra Bose - Jagdispur - Jaggayyapeta - Jagir - Jagiri Lal Sareen - Jagiroad - Jagner - Jagtaj - Jahangirabad - Jahazpur - Jai Singh II - Jainagar - Jainism - Jaipur - Jaipur District - Jaipur Division - Jairampur - Jais - Jaisinghnagar - Jaitaran - Jaithara - Jaithari - Jaitu - Jaitwara - Jajapur - Jajpur District - Jakhal Mandi - Jala Kendua - Jalakandapuram - Jalali - Jalalpore - Jalalpur - Ratan Jalan - Jalandhar - Jalandhar Cantonment - Jalandhar District - Jalaun - Jalaun District - Jalda - Jalesar - Jaleswar - Jalgaon - Jalgaon (Jamod) - Jalgaon District - Jalladiampet - Jallaram Kamanpur - Jalor - Jalor District - Jam Jodhpur - Jamadoba - Jamai - Jambai - Jambusar - James Tod - Jamhaur - Jammu (city) - Jammu - Jammu and Kashmir - Jammu Cantonment - Jammu District - Jamnagar - Jamnagar District - Jamnalal Bajaj - Jamshila - Jamtara - Jamuria - Janakpur Road - Jandiala - Jangaon - Jangladesh - Jansath - Jaridih Bazar - Jarjapupeta - Jarwal - Jasdan - Jashpur Nagar - Jasidih - Jaspur - Jasrana - Jaswantnagar - Jat people - Jat (Sangli) - Jata Chhapar - Jatani - Jatara - Jatari - Jāti - Jatinga - Jatropha incentives in India - Jaunpur - Jaunpur District - Jawad - Jawaharlal Nehru - Jawaharnagar (Gujarat Refinery) - Jawai - Jawalamukhi - Jawar - Jayachamaraja Wodeyar Bahadur - Jayalalithaa Jayaram - Jayanagar - Jayankondam - Jayaprakash Narayan - Jaygaon - Jaynagar Mazilpur - Jaysingpur - Jean-Baptiste Tavernier - Jeet Gannguli - Jejuri - Jemari - Jemari (J.K. Nagar Township) - Jeron Khalsa - Jetia - Jetpur Navagadh - Jevargi - Jewar - Jews in India - Jeypur - Jhabrera - Jhabua - Jhabua District - Jhagrakhand - Jhajha - Jhalaar - Jhalawar - Jhalawar District - Jhalda - Jhalu - Jhansi - Jhansi District - Jhanki - Jhansi Division - Jhansi Railway Settlement - Jharia - Jharia Khas - Jharkhand - Jharoda Majra Burari - Jhinjhak - Jhinjhana - Jhinkpani - Jhorhat - Jhumpa Lahiri - Jhumpura - Jhundpura - Jhunjhunu - Jhunjhunu District - Jhusi - Jhusi Kohna - Jiaganj Azimganj - Jijabai - Jim Corbett National Park - Jintur - Jiran - Jirapur - Jiribam - Jiwan Pur alias Johri Pur - Jiyanpur - Jobner - Joda - Jodhpur - Jodhpur District - Jodhpur Division - Jogbani - Jogendranagar - Jogindarnagar - Jolarpet - Jona Pur - Jonai Bazar - Jorapokhar - Joseph François Dupleix - Joshipura - Jot Kamal - Joura - Jourian - Jubbal - Jugial - Jugsalai - Junagadh - Justice On Trial - Justice Party (India) - Jutogh - Jyotiraditya Scindia - Jyoti Khuria - Jyotirling - Jyotiṣa\n\nKabaddi - Kabibara Radhanath Ray-Kabini River - Kabir Bedi - Kabnur - Kabrai - Kachhauna Patseni - Kachhla - Kachhwa - Kachnal Gosain - Kachu Pukur - Kachwaha - Kadachira - Kadamakkudy - Kadamba Dynasty - Kadamba script - Kadamba tree - Kadambur - Kadathur - Kadaura - Kadayal - Kadayampatti - Kadipur - Kadodara - Kadungalloor - Kaghaznagar - Kailaras - Kailashpur - Kailudih - Kairana - Kaithoon - Kajol - Kajora - Kakarhati - Kakatiya dynasty - Kakching Khunou - Kakdihi - Kakgaina - Kakod - Kakrala - Kaladungi - Kalahandi - Kalakkad - Kalambe Turf Thane - Kalambur - Kalameshwar - Kalamnuri - Kalan Wali - Kalapatti - Kalappanaickenpatti - Kalara - Kalaripayattu - Kalavad - Kalavai - Kalayat - Kalghatgi - Kali - Kali Chhapar - Kali Sindh River - Kali Yuga - Kaliaganj - Kalidasa - Kalikapur - Kalimpong - Kalinagar - Kalinjar - Kalinjur - Kaliveli Lake - Kaliyakkavilai - Kalki - Kalladaikurichi - Kallakkurichi - Kallakudi - Kallanai - Kalliasseri - Kallukuttam - Kalol (Gandhinagar) - Kalol (Panchmahal) - Kalpana Chawla - Kalpi - Kalugumalai - Kalundre - Kalyan - Kalyan-Dombivali - Kalyani - Kalyani, West Bengal - Kamala Nehru Park, Mumbai - Kamala Nehru Park, Pune- Kama Sutra - Kamakshyanagar - Kamal Haasan - Kamal Heer - Kamalganj - Kamalpur - Kaman - Kamaraj - Kamayagoundanpatti - Kambainallur - Kambam - Kampli - Kampur Town - Kamuthi - Kanadukathan - Kanaipur - Kanakkampalayam - Kanakpur Part-II - Kanam - Kanapaka - Kanara - Kanauji language - Banwari Lal Kanchhal -Kanchipuram - Kanchipuram district - Kanchrapara - Kandali - Kandanur - Kandari - Kandhamal - Kandesh - Kanhoji Angre - Kandla - Kandhar - Kandhla - Kandra - Kandri - Kandukur - Kandwa - Kangayampalayam - Kangeyam - Kangeyanallur - Kangra, Himachal Pradesh - Kangra district - Kangrali (BK) - Kangrali (KH) - Kanhan (Pipri) - Kanhirode - Kanitkar - Kanjhawala - Kanjikkuzhi - Kanjikoil - Kanker, Chhattisgarh - Kanker district - Kankuria - Kannad - Kannada language - Kannadendal - Kannadiparamba - Kannagi - Kannamangalam (Alappuzha) - Kannamangalam, Malappuram - Kannampalayam - Kannankurichi - Kannapuram - Kannauj - Kannauj District - Kannivadi - Kannod - Kannur - Kannur district - Kannur Cantonment - Kanodar - Kanpur - Kanpur Dehat District - Kanpur District - Kanpur Division - Kansepur - Kantabamsuguda - Kantabanji - Kantaphod - Kanth - Kanti - Kantilo - Kantlia - Kanuru - Kanva dynasty - Kanyakumari - Kanyakumari district - Kanyanagar - Kapadvanj - Kapas Hera - Kapasan - Kapil Dev - Kapurthala - Kappiyarai - Kaprain - Kaptanganj - Karachiya - Karaikal - Karaikudi - Karamadai - Karambakkam - Karambakkudi - Karanja Lad - Karanje Turf Satara - Karanjia - Karanpur - Karari - Karauli - Karauli District - Karawal Nagar - Kardhan - Kareena Kapoor - Kareli, Allahabad - Kareli, Madhya Pradesh - Karera - Karhal - Kariamangalam - Kariapatti - Karikala Chola - Karimganj - Karimganj District - Karimnagar - Karimnagar District - Karimpur - Karivali - Karjan - Karmala - Karn Prayag - Karnaphuli River - Karnataka - Karnawad - Karnawal - Karoran - Karrapur - Karugampattur - Karumandi Chellipalayam - Karumathampatti - Karungal - Karunguzhi - Karuppur - Karur - Karur District - Karuvanthuruthy - Kasara Budruk - Kasaragod Town - Kasaragod District - Kasganj - Kashinagara - Kashirampur - Kashmir - Kashmiri language - Kasim Bazar - Kasipalayam (E) - Kasipalayam (G) - Kasrawad - Katai - Kataiya - Katangi - Katariya, Ambedkar Nagar district - Katariya, Ghazipur district - Katghar Lalganj - Katghora - Kathakali - Kathera - Kathiarbar-Gir dry deciduous forests - Kathiawar - Kathujuganapalli - Katkar - Katpar - Katra Medniganj - Katras - Kattivakkam - Kattumannarkoil - Kattuputhur - Kaugachhi - Kauriaganj - Kaveri River - Kaveripakkam - Kaveripattinam - Kavisuryanagar - Kavitrayam - Kawardha - Kayalpattinam - Kayamkulam - Kayatharu - Kaziranga National Park - Kedarnath - Kedla - Keelakarai - Keeranur - Keeripatti - Keezhapavur - Kegaon - Kekri - Kela Khera - Kelamangalam - Kelhauri(chachai) - Kembainaickenpalayam - Kenda - Kendra Khottamdi - Kendrapara - Kendrapara District - Kendua - Kenduadih - Kendujhar - Kendujhar District - Kengeri - Kerakat - Keoladeo National Park - Kerala - Kerala Brethren - Kerala Backwaters - Kerur - Kesabpur - Keshod - Keshoraipatan - Kesinga - Kesrisinghpur - Kethi - Kevadiya - Khachrod - Khadda - Khadkale - Khaga - Khagaul - Khagrabari - Khailar - Khair - Khairabad - Khairagarh - Khairthal - Khajoori Khas - Khajuraho - Khaki - Khalia - Khaliapali - Khalikote - Khalor - Khamanon - Khamaria - Khambhalia - Khamhria - Khammam - Khammam District - Khanapur - Khanauri - Khand (Bansagar) - Khandapada - Khandela - Khandra - Khandwa - Khandwa District - Khaniyadhana - Khantora - Khapa - Kharagpur Railway Settlement - Kharar, Mohali - Kharela - Khargapur - Khargone - Khargone District - Khargupur - Khariar - Khariar Road - Kharijapikon - Kharimala Khagrabari - Khariya - Kharkhari - Kharkhoda - Kharod - Kharsarai - Kharsia - Kharupatia - Khatauli - Khatauli Rural - Khategaon - Khatiguda - Khatima - Khatushyamji - Khawhai - Khawzawl - Kheda - Kheda District - Khedbrahma - Khekada - Khelari - Khem Karan - Khera Khurd - Kheragarh - Kheralu - Kherdi - Kherli - Kherliganj - Kherwara Chhaoni - Kheta Sarai - Khetia - Khalji dynasty - Khirkiya - Khodarampur - Khongapani - Khongman - Khordha - Khordha District - Khour - Khrew - Khudaganj - Khujner - Khurai - Khusrupur - Khutar - Khyber Pass - Kichha - Kilampadi - Kilkulam - Kilkunda - Killiyur - Killlai - Kilpennathur - Kilvelur - Kinathukadavu - King Cobra - Kingdom of Mysore - Kinwat - Kiran Bedi - Kirandul - Kiranipura - Kiraoli - Kirari Suleman Nagar - Kiratpur - Kiriburu - Kirtinagar - Kishan Lal Passi - Kishangarh Renwal - Kishni - Kishtwar - Kishunpur - Kithaur - Knanaya - Koath - Kochi - Kochinda - Kochpara - Kodagu - Kodaikanal - Kodala - Kodalia - Kodarma - Kodava language - Kodava people - Kodava Takk - Kodavasal - Kodigenahalli - Kodinar - Kodiyal - Kodoli - Kodumudi - Koeripur - Koh-i-Noor diamond - Koilwar - Kokkamangalam - Kokkothamangalam - Kokrebellur - Kolachal - Kolappalur - Kolar - Kolar District - Kolaras - Kolathupalayam - Kolathur - Kolazhy - Kolekar - Kolhapur - Kolkata - Kolkata Mirror - Kollam - Kollam District - Kollankodu - Kollankoil - Kolleru Lake - Kollywood - Kolvi Mandi Rajendra pura - Komalapuram - Komaralingam - Konanakunte - Konardihi - Konark - Konavattam - Konch - Kondagaon - Kondalampatti - Kondli - Kondumal - Konganapuram - Kongu Nadu - Konkan - Konkan Railway - Konkani language - Konnagar - Konnur - Kooraikundu - Koothappar - Kopaganj - Kopharad - Koppal - Koppal District - Kora Jahanabad - Koradacheri - Koraon - Koraput - Koraput District - Koratagere - Koratla - Koratty - Korochi - Kosamba - Kosi Kalan - Kot Fatta - Kot Kapura - Kota, Rajasthan - Kota District - Kottapadi -Kottayam - Kottayam-Malabar - Kotdwara - Kotekara - Kothavalasa - Kothinallur - Kothnur - Kotkhai - Kotma - Kotpad - Kotputli - Kottaiyur - Kottakuppam - Kottaram - Kottivakkam - Kottuvally - Kotwa - Kouthanallur - Kovurpalle - Kozhikode - Kozhikode District - Krishna - Krishna district - Krishna Raja Sagara - Krishna River - Krishnagiri - Krishnagiri District - Krishnarajanagar - Krishnarajapura - Krishnarajasagara - Krishnarajpet - Krishnarayapuram - Krishnasamudram - K R Narayanan - Kshatriya - Kshidirpur - Kshirpai - Kuchaman City - Kuchanur - Kuchera - Kud - Kudchi - Kudligi - Kudlu - Kuhalur - Kuju - Kukernag - Kukke Subrahmanya Temple - Kukshi - Kul Pahar - Kulasekhara - Kulasekarapuram - Kulgam - Kulihanda - Kulithalai - Kulti - Kumar Kaibarta Gaon - Kumaon - Kumarakom - Kumarapalayam - Kumarapuram - Kumarghat - Kumbakonam - Kumbh Mela - Kumbhalgarh - Kunjali Marakkar - Kumbhkot - Kumbhraj - Kumhari - Kundalwadi - Kundarki - Kundgol - Kundrathur - Kunigal - Kuniyamuthur - Kunjaban - Kunnathur (Kerala) - Kunustara - Kunwargaon - Kunzer - Kupwara - Kurali - Kuraoli - Kurduvadi - Kureekkad - Kurgunta - Kurichi - Kurinjipadi - Kurnool - Kurnool District - Kurpania - Kursath - Kurthi Jafarpur - Kurud - Kurudampalayam - Kurumbalur - Kurumbapet - Kurundvad - Kurwai - Kusgaon Budruk - Kushan Empire - Kushtagi - Kusmara - Kustai - Kutch District - Kuthalam - Kuvempu University - Kwakta - Kyathampalle - Kymore\n\nLabbaikudikadu - Lachhmangarh - Ladakh - Ladakhi language - Ladnu - Ladrawan - Ladwa - Lagaan - Laharpur - Lakarka - Lakh - Lakhenpur - Lakheri - Lakhna - Lakhnadon - Lakkampatti - Laksar - Lakshadweep - Lakshmi Temple, Khajuraho - Lakshman Rekha - Lakshmeshwar - Lal Bahadur Shastri - Lal Gopalganj Nindaura - Lal Paharir Deshe Ja - Lalganj - Lalgudi - Lalitpur - Lalitpur District - Lalkuan - Laloo Prasad Yadav - Lalpet - Lalsot - Lamai - Lambha - Lamjaotongba - Lamshang - Landaura - Langalia - Languages of India - Lanja - Lapanga - Lasalgaon - Lateri - Lattikata - Laundi - Lauria NandanGarh - Lauthaha - Lawar NP - Leander Paes - Ledwa Mahua - Lehragaga - Lengpui - Libas Pur - Licence plates - Lidhorakhas - Lido Tikok - Lido Town - Lilong (Imphal West) - Lilong (Thoubal) - Limla - Lingiyadih - Lingsugur - Lipu-Lekh pass - List of cities in India - List of firsts in India - List of Gujarati-language television channels - List of Hindus - List of Indian Americans - List of Indian cities on rivers - \nList of Indian companies - List of Indian composers - List of Indian districts - List of Indian movie actresses - List of Indian television stations - List of Indians - List of Indians by state - List of islands of India - List of Mughal emperors - List of people by India state - List of office-holders in India - List of office-holders in Punjab, India - List of political parties in India - List of political party symbols in India - List of regions in India - List of rivers in India - List of rivers in Kerala - List of states and territories of India by population - List of universities in India - Llayangudi - Lodi dynasty - Lodhian Khas - Lodhikheda - Loha - Lohaghat - Loharda - Lohta - Lok Sabha - Loktak Lake - Lonar crater - Londa - Lormi - Losal - Lower Gangetic Plains moist deciduous forests - Loyabad - Lucknow - Ludo - Lumbini - Lumding Railway Colony - Lungi - Luni River\n\nM. Night Shyamalan - Machalpur - Macherla - Machingal - Machhiwara - Machhlishahr - Machilipatnam - Madambakkam - Madanpur - Madanrting - Madaram - Madathukulam - Madavaram - Maddur - Madhav National Park - Madhavnagar - Madhavrao Scindia - Madhoganj - Madhogarh - Madhugiri - Madhumalati - Madhupur - Madhuri Dixit - Madhusudanpur - Madhya Bharat - Madhya Pradesh - Madhya Pradesh cricket team - Madhya Pradesh High Court - Madhya Pradesh Stock Exchange - Madhya Pradesh Vikas Congress - Madhu Sudan - Madippakkam - Madras (cloth) - Madras (city) - Madras bashai - Madras Presidency - Madukkarai - Madurai - Madurai District - Maduranthakam - Magadha - Magadhi language - Magadi - Magam - Mahabalipuram - Mahaban - Mahabharata - Mahadevapura - Mahadji Sindhia - Mahadula - Mahakali River - Mahalingpur - Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis - Maham - Mahanadi River - Mahananda River - Maharaja - Maharajganj - Mahar - Maharashtra - Maharashtra Housing and Development Authority - Mahatma Gandhi - Mahbubnagar - Mahemdavad - Maheshtala - Mahi Kantha - Mahi River - Mahiari - Mahilpur - Mahira - Mahmud of Ghazni - Mahnar Bazar - Mahoba - Maholi - Mahona - Mahrajganj - Mahroni - Mahu Kalan - Mahua Dabra Haripura - Mahua Kheraganj - Mahudha - Mahuri - Mahuva - Mahuvar - Mahwa - Maibong - Maidan (Karnataka) - Maidan (Kolkata) - Mainaguri - Maindargi - Mairang - Mairwa - Maithili language - Maithon - Maitraka - Majgaon - Majhara Pipar Ehatmali - Majhauli Raj - Majholi - Majitha - Majuli - Makarba - Makardaha - Makhdumpur - Makhu - Makronia - Maksi - Maktampur - Makum - Makundapur - Malabar region - Malabar Coast - Malabar Coast moist forests - Malabar District - Malabar Hill - Malabars - Malaj Khand - Malankara Syrian Orthodox Church - Mahendra Singh Dhoni - Malappuram - Malappuram District - Malavalli - Malayalam calendar - Malayalam cinema - Malayalam language - Malayalam literature - Malhargarh - Malihabad - Malkangiri - Malkangiri District - Malkapur - Malkera - Malibu Hindu Temple - Mallamooppampatti - Mallankinaru - Mallar - Mallasamudram - Mallawan - Mallur, Ariyalur - Mallur, Karnataka - Mallur, Salem - Malluru - Malnad - Malwa - Maloud - Malout - Malpura - Malwan - Mamit - Manachanallur - Manadur - Manalmedu - Manalurpet - Manamadurai - Manapakkam - Manapparai - Manas National Park - Manavalakurichi - Manawar - Mancherial - Mandaikadu - Mandala - Mandalgarh - Mandamarri - Mandapam - Mandapeta - Mandarbani - Mandav - Mandawar - Mandi Dabwali - Mandideep - Mandla - Mandla District - Mandovi River - Mandsaur - Mandsaur District - Mandu - Mandya - Mandya District - Manegaon - Maneka Gandhi - Maner - Mangalampet - Mangaldoi - Mangalore - Mangalvedhe - Mangawan - Manglaur - Manglaya Sadak - Mango - Mangrol, Kathiawar - Mangrulpir - Manihari - Manikpur - Manikpur Sarhat - Manimutharu - Manipur - Maniyar - Manjhanpur - Manjula Ghattamaneni - Manjula Vijayakumar - Manmohan Singh - Manmohan Waris - Manoj Das- Manipal Institute of Technology - Manjlegaon - Mankachar - Mankapur - Manohar Thana - Mansar - Mansinhapur - Mant Khas - Manugur - Manwath - Mappilaiurani - Maradu - Maraimalainagar - Marakkanam - Maramangalathupatti - Marandahalli - Marathakkara - Marathi language - Marathi television - Marathwada - Marehra - Marhaura - Mariahu - Mariani - Markayankottai - Maruadih Railway Settlement - Marudur, Coimbatore - Marudur, Karur - Maruti Udyog - Marwar - Marwar Junction - Marwari language - Marwaris - Masaurhi - Maslandapur - Master of Computer Applications - Masulipatnam - Mathura - Maswasi - Mataundh - Mathabhanga - Mathigiri - Mathura District - Mattan - Mau Aima - Maudaha - Mauganj - Maunath Bhanjan - Maur - Maurawan - Mauryan dynasty - Mausimaa Temple - Mavilayi - Mavoor - Mawana - Mawlai - Mawsynram - Mayang Imphal - Mayiladuthurai - Mayurbhanj - Mecheri - Media of India - Medohar - Meenakshi - Meena Kumari - Meenas - Meerpet - Meerut - Meerut District - Meerut Division - Meghahatuburu Forest village - Meghalaya - Meghalaya subtropical forests - Meghna River - Meghnagar - Meghraj - Mehara Gaon - Mehatpur Basdehra - Mehdawal - Meher Baba - Mehgaon - Mehmand - Mehnagar - Mekliganj - Melacheval - Melachokkanathapuram - Melagaram - Melamadai - Melamaiyur - Melathiruppanthuruthi - Melattur, Kerala - Melpattampakkam - Melvisharam - Memnagar - Memon people -Memunda- Mendu - Merta City - Metrication in India - Mettupalayam - Mewar - Mewat - Mhasla - Mhaswad - Mhow - Mhowgaon - Middle kingdoms of India - \"Midnight's Children\" - Mihijam - Mihona - Milak - Military of India - Minjur - Mira-Bhayandar - Mira Nair - Miranpur - Mirganj - Mirpur Turk -miryalaguda Mirza Ghalib - Mirzapur-cum-Vindhyachal - Misrikh-cum-Neemsar - Miss India - Mithapur - Mithe Pur - Mithila (India) - Mithila (region)- Mitra (Vedic) - Mizoram - Modakurichi - Mogra Badshahpur - Mogravadi - Mohali - Mohammadabad - Mohammadi - Mohanpur - Mohanpur Mohammadpur - Mohanur - Mohgaon - Mohiniaattam - Mohiuddinagar - Mohiuddinpur - Mohpa - Mohpada Alias Wasambe - Mokameh - Molakalmuru - Molar Band - Monoharpur - Monsoon - Moolakaraipatti - Moonak - Moovarasampettai - Mopperipalayam - Moragudi - Moran Town - Moranhat - Morar Cantonment - Morarji Desai - Morena, India - Morena District - Morshi - \"Mother India\" - Mother Teresa - Motipur - Mount Abu - Mount Everest - Mowa, Gujarat - Mowad - Mowgli - Mrigala - Mudalgi - Mudbidri - Muddebihal - Mudgal - Mudigere - Mudkhed - Mudukulathur - Mudushedde - Mughal architecture - Mughal Empire - Mughalsarai Railway Settlement - Mugma - Muhajir (Pakistan) - Muhajir Urdu - Muhamma - Muhammad Ali Jinnah - Muhammad of Ghor - Muhammadabad - Mukandgarh - Mukasipidariyur - Mukerian - Mukhiguda - Mukkudal - Mukrampur Khema - Muktsar - Mulagumudu - Mulanur - Mulavukad - Mulayam Singh Yadav - Mulgund - Mulk Raj Anand - Mulki - Mullanpur Dakha - Mullanpur- Garibdas - Multai - Mulur - Mumbai - Mumbai Police - Mumbai Suburban District - Mumbai University Institute of Chemical Technology - Mumtaz Mahal - Munda languages - Mundargi - Mundera Bazar - Munderi - Mundgod - Mundi - Mundia - Mundka - Mundra - Mundwa - Mungaoli - Mungeli - Muni Ki Reti - Munirabad Project Area - Munnur - Munsiyari - Murli Manohar Joshi - Muradnagar - Muragachha - Murbad - Murgathaul - Murgud - Murliganj - Murtijapur - Muruganpalayam - Murum - Murwara (Katni) - Musabani - Musafirkhana - Musi River - Music of India - Musiri - Muslim - Mussoori - Mustafabad - Muthupet - Muthur - Muttayyapuram - Muzaffarid dynasty - Mysore - Mysore District - Mysore Division - Mysore (region) - Mysore Kingdom - Mysore state\n\nNabadwip - Nabagram - Nabagram Colony - Nabarangpur - Nabarangpur District - Nabgram - Nabinagar - Nachane - Nachhratpur Katabari - Nadathara - Nadaun - Nadigaon - Nader Shah - Naduvattam - Naga people - Nagabhata II - Nagai Chaudhry - Nagaland - Nagamangala - Nagapattinam - Nagapattinam District - Nagapur - Nagardeole - Nagarjuna - Nagavakulam - Nagercoil - Nagla - Nagojanahalli - Nagothana - Nagpur - Nagpur District - Nagpur Division - Nagpur kingdom - Nagpur Province - Nagram - Nagri - Nagri Kalan - Nagrota Bagwan - Naharkatiya - Nai Bazar - Nai Garhi - Naila Janjgir - Nainana Jat - Nainital - Nainpur - Nainwa - Nakashi art - Nalanda - Nalkheda - Nallampatti - Naluvedapathy - Namagiripettai - Namakkal - Namakkal District - Nambiyur - Nambol - Namli - Namna Kalan - Namsai - Nanakvada - Nanauta - Nand Prayag - Nanda - Nanda dynasty - Nanded District - Nanded-Waghala - Nandej - Nandesari - Nandesari INA - Nandi Awards - Nandi (bull) - Nandigram violence - Nandi Hills, India - Nandivaram-Guduvancheri - Nandura - Nandurbar - Nandurbar District - Nangal Dewat - Nangal Thakran - Nangavalli - Nangavaram - Nangloi Jat - Nanguneri - Nanjikottai - Nannilam - Nanpara - Naoriya Pakhanglakpa - Naraingarh - Naraini - Naranammalpuram - Naranapuram - Narasaraopet - Narasimhanaickenpalayam - Narasimharajapura - Narasingapuram - Narath - Narauli - Naraura - Naravarikuppam - Narayan Wamanrao Tilak - Narayanavanam - Naregal - Narendra Nagar - Nargund - Narkatiaganj - Narkhed - Narmada River - Narmada Valley dry deciduous forests - Narnaul - Narnaund - Narsinghpur - Narsinghpur District - Narsingi - Narsipatnam - Narula Institute of Technology - Narwana - Naseeruddin Shah - Nasiyanur - Nashik - Nashik District - Nashik Division - Naspur - Nasrani (India) - Nasrullaganj - Natham - Nathampannai - Natibpur - National Centre for Software Technology - National Chambal (Gharial) Wildlife Sanctuary - National parks of India - Nathdwara - Nathuram Godse - Nathuram Mirdha - National Democratic Alliance (NDI) - National Human Rights Commission of India - Natoo - Natrampalli - Nattapettai - Nattarasankottai - Naubaisa Gaon - Naudhia - Naugachhia - Naugawan Sadat - Naupala - NavagamGhed - Navalgund - Navalpattu - Navghar-Manikpur - Navi Mumbai - Nawab - Nawalgarh - Nawapur - Naxalite - Naya Baradwar - Nayabazar - Nayagarh - Nayagarh District - Nayak dynasty - Nazerath - Nazira - Nebadhai Duttapukur - Needamangalam - Neelagiri - Neelankarai - Neem-Ka-Thana - Neemuch - Neemuch District - Nehon - Nehra - Jawaharlal Nehru - Nehtaur - Neikkarapatti - Neiyyur - Nellikuppam - Nellimaria - Nelliyalam - Nellore - Nelmangala - Nemili - Nenmenikkara - Neo-Buddhism - Nepal - Nepali language - Nepanagar - Neripperichal - Nerkundram - Nerkuppai - Nerunjipettai - Nethravathi River -Neuton Chikhli Kalan - New Barrackpur - New Bongaigaon Railway Colony - New Delhi - New Delhi Municipal Council - New Mahe - Newa Talai - Neykkarappatti - Neyveli - Nibra - Nichlaul - Nicobar Islands - Nicobarese languages - Nidadavole - Nidhauli Kalan - Nightingale of India - Nilagiri - Nilakkottai - Nilanga - Nildoh - Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve - Nilgiri Hills - Nilgiri tahr - Nimapada - Nimar - Nirad C. Chaudhuri - Nirdesh - Nissim Ezekiel - NIIT - Niwai - Niwari - Nizam Shahi - Nizampatnam - Nobel laureates of India - Nohar - Nokha - Nimbahera - Nimbhore Budruk - Ningthoukhong - Nipani - Nirmal - Nirmali - Nirsa - Nokpul - Non-violence - non-resident Indian - Nongmynsong - Nongthymmai - Noor Mahal - Noorpur - North Delhi - North Dumdum - North East Delhi - North Guwahati - North Kawnpui - North Lakhimpur - North 24 Parganas district - North Vanlaiphai - North West Delhi - North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests - North Western Ghats montane rain forests - Northeast India-Myanmar pine forests - North Barrackpur - Northern Circars - Northern dry deciduous forests - Northern Railway Colony - Northwestern thorn scrub forests - Nowgaon - Nowrozabad (Khodargama) - Nowshera - Nuapada - Nuapada District - Nuapatna - Numaligarh Refinery Township - Nurpur, Murshidabad - Nurpur Januhan - Nurpur Jharsa - Nurpur kingdom - Nutan - Nyoria Husainpur - Nyotini\n\nObedullaganj - OCL Industrial Township - Odaipatti - Odaiyakulam - Odissi - Odissi music - Odugathur - Oel Dhakwa - Oggiyamduraipakkam - - Oil and Natural Gas Corporation - Oinam - Okha port - Okni NO.II - Olagadam - Olavanna - Old Maldah - Om Parvat - Omerkhan Daira - Ondal - Ongole - Opium - Orachha - Orathanadu (Mukthambalpuram) - Ordnance Factories Organisation - Ordnance Factory Itarsi - Ordnance Factory Khamaria - Ordnance Factory Muradnagar - Oriental and India Office Collections - Orientalism - Odisha - Odisha semi-evergreen forests - Odia - Orla - Othakadai - Othakalmandapam - Ottapparai - Out of India theory - O' Valley - Ozar - Ozhukarai- Osho\n\nP. J. Cholapuram - P. L. Deshpande - P. Mettupalayam - P. N. Patti - P. Sainath - P. V. Narasimha Rao - Pachgaon - Pachmarhi - Pachmarhi Biosphere Preserve - Pachora - Pachore - Pachperwa - Pacode - Padagha - Padaiveedu - Padampur (Odisha Vidhan Sabha constituency) - Padampur tehsil - Padampur, Rajasthan - Paddhari - Padianallur - Padirikuppam - Padma Bhushan - Padma Shri - Padma Vibhushan - Padmapur - Padrauna - Paduvilayi - Pahalgam - Pahari language - Pahasu - Paintepur - Pairagachha - Pakaur - Pakhala - Pakistan - Pal Chourai - Pala Empire - Palacole - Palaganangudy - Palakkad - Palakkad Gap - Payyappilly Palakkappilly - Palakkodu - Palakurthi - Palamedu - Palani Chettipatti - Palar River - Palasa-Kasibugga - Palasbari - Palashban - Palavakkam - Palavansathu - Palawa - Palayad - Palayam - Palda - Palej - Palera - Pāli - Pali District - Pali, Rajasthan - Palia Kalan - Palissery - Palk Strait - Palladam - Pallapalayam - Pallapatti - Pallathur - Pallava - Pallikaranai - Pallikkunnu - Pallikonda - Pallipalayam - Pallipalayam Agraharam - Pallipattu - Palni Hills - Paluvai - Palwancha - Pampore - Pamur - Panagar - Panagudi - Panaimarathupatti - Panapakkam - Panara - Panboli - Panchachuli - Panchappathis - Panchet - Panchkula Urban Estate - Panchla - Panchmahal - Panchpara - Pandamangalam - Pandariya - Pandavapura - Pandhana - Pandharkaoda - Pandhurna - Pandya - Manilal Pandya - Pandya Nadu - Pangachhiya (B) - Paniara - Panipat Taraf Ansar - Panipat Taraf Rajputan - Panipat Taraf Makhdum Zadgan - Panna - Panna District - Pannaikadu - Pannaipuram - Panniyannur - Panoor - Panposh - Pansemal - Panth-Piploda - Pantheeramkavu - Panuhat - Panvel - Papampeta - Papanasam - Pappankurichi - Papparapatti - Pappinisseri - Pappireddipatti - Par Beliya - Paramathi - Paranda - Parangipettai - Parashkol - Parasi - Parasia - Paratdih - Paravai - Parbatsar - Parbbatipur - Parcem - Parichha - Parikshitgarh - Parlakhemundi - Parliament of India - Parnera - Parsadepur - Partition of India - Partur - Parvat - Parvathipuram - Parwanoo - Pasan - Paschim Jitpur - Paschim Punropara - \"A Passage to India\" - Pasthal - Patala - Patan, Gujarat - Patan District - Patancheru - Patanjali - Pathalgaon - Pathamadai - Pathardi - Pathardih - Patharia - Pathiriyad - Pathri - Pathsala - Patiala - Patiala and East Punjab States Union (PEPSU) - Patiala District - Patiyali - Patna - Patnagarh - Patratu - Pattadakal - Pattamundai - Pattanagere - Pattinam - Pattiom - Pattiveeranpatti - Pattran - Pattukkottai - Patuli - Patulia - Patur - Pauni - Pavagada - Pawai - Payal - Pazhugal - Pedana - Peerkankaranai - Pehlad Pur Bangar - Pehowa - Penner River - Pendra - Penha de França, Goa - Pennadam - Pennagaram - Pennathur - Peraiyur - Perakam - Peralam - Peralasseri - Perambalur - Perambalur District - Peranamallur - Peravurani - Peringathur - Periya Negamam - Periyakodiveri - Periyakulam - Periyanaickenpalayam - Periyapatti - Periyar River - Periyasemur - Pernampattu - Persian Empire - Perumagalur - Perumandi - Perumbaikad - Perumuchi - Perungalathur - Perungulam - Perur - Peshwa - Peth Umri - Peth Vadgaon - Pethampalayam - Pethanaickenpalayam - Petlad - Petlawad - Petro Chemical Complex INA - Phalauda - Phalna - Phalodi - Phaphund - Phek - Phulabani - Phulera - Phulia - Phulpur - Phulwari Sharif - Phulwaria - Phunderdihari - Phuphkalan - Phusro - Pichhore - Pihani - Pilibanga - Pilibhit - Pilkhana - Pilkhuwa - Pillanallur - Pimpri Chinchwad - Pinahat - Pinarayi - Pindari - Pinjore - Pipalsana Chaudhari - Piparcity - Pipariya - Pipiganj - Pipili - Piplya Mandi - Pipraich - Pipri - Pirawa - Piriyapatna - Pitapuram - Pithora, Chhattisgarh - Pithoragarh - Piploda - Podara - Point Calimere - Pokaran - Poladpur - Polasara - Polay Kalan - Polichalur - Politics of India - Polur - Pondar Kanali - Ponnaiyar River - Ponnamaravathi - Ponnampatti - Ponneri - Ponnur - Ponwar - Poolambadi - Poolampatti - Pooluvapatti - Pooth Kalan - Pooth Khurd - Porbandar - Porbandar District - Porompat - Porsa - Postage stamps and postal history of India - Pothanur - Pothatturpettai - Pottore - Powayan - Prajesh - Prantij - Pratapgarh - Pratapgarh District - Pratapgarh, Rajasthan - Pratapgarh, Tripura - Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh - Pratapsasan - Pratihara - Pratitnagar - Pravin Togadia - Prayagpur - President of India - Prime Minister of India - Prince of Wales Museum - Princely state - Prithviraj III - Prithvipur - Puducherry - Pudukadai - Pudukkottai - Pudukkottai District - Pudupalayam - Pudupatti - Pudupattinam - Pudur (S) - Pujali - Pukhrayan - Pul Pehlad - Pulicat - Pulicat Lake - Pulgaon - Puliyankudi - Puliyur, Karur - Puliyur, Nagapattinam - Pullampadi - Punahana - Pune - Pune District - Pune Division - Punganur - Punjab region - Punjab state - Punjabi language - Punjai Thottakurichi - Punjaipugalur - Punjaipuliampatti - Puranattukara - Puranpur - Purba Tajpur - Puri (food) - Puri - Puri District - Purdilnagar - Purna - Purquazi - Purushottamnagar - Purusottampur - Purvanchal - Purwa - Puthalam - Puthukkad - Puvalur - Puzhal - Puzhathi - Puzhithivakkam (Ullagaram) - Pynthorumkhrah\n\nQasimpur Power House Colony - Qazigund - Quammruddin Nagar - Quepem - Queula - Qutb complex - Qutub Minar - Qutb Shahi dynasty - Qutb-ud-din Aybak - Quthbullapur\n\nR. Pudupatti - R. S. Mangalam - Rabindranath Tagore - Rabkavi Banhatti - Rabupura - Radaur - Radhakund - Rafiganj - Rafiq Zakaria - Raga - Raghogarh-Vijaypur - Raghudebbati - Raghunathchak - Raghunathpur - Raghunathpur (PS-Dankuni) - Raghunathpur (PS-Magra) - Rahatgarh - Rahimatpur - Rahon - Rahta Pimplas - Rahul Dravid - Rahuri - Raichur - Raichur Doab - Raigachhi - Raigarh - Raigad District - Raikot - Railway Settlement Roza - Raipur Rani - Raisen - Raisen District - Raisinghnagar - Raj Kapoor - Raja - Raja Ka Rampur - Raja Ravi Varma - Rajagangapur - Rajahmundry - Rajakhedi - Rajakhera - Rajaldesar - Rajapur - Rajarhat Gopalpur - Rajasansi - Rajasthan - Rajasthani languages - Rajauri - Rajbar - Rajdhani Express - Rajendranagar - Rajgamar - Rajgarh - Rajgarh District - Rajgir - Rajgurunagar (Khed) - Rajiv Gandhi - Rajmata Vijayraje Scindia - Rajneesh - Rajokri - Rajpramukh - Rajpur - Rajpur Sonarpur - Rajpura - Rajput - Rajputana - Rajsamand - Rajula - Rajur - Rajura - Rajya Sabha - Rajya Rani Express - Rakesh Sharma - Ralam Glacier - Ram Garh - Ram Mohan Roy - Rama - Rama's Bridge - Ramachandrapuram - Ramachandrapuram (Bhel Township) - Ramakrishna - Ramakrishna Mission - Ramanathapuram - Ramanathapuram District - Ramanattukara - Ramanayyapeta - Ramanujganj - Ramappa Temple - Ramapuram, Nellore - Ramayana - Ramchandrapur - Ramdass - Ramesh Chandra Lahoti - Rameswaram - Ramganj Mandi - Ramgarh, Jharkhand - Ramgarh Cantonment - Ramjibanpur - Ramkola - Ramnagar, Uttarakhand - Ramnagar, Agartala - Ramnagar, Madhya Pradesh - Ramnagar, Uttar Pradesh - Ramol - Rampachodavaram - Rampur Baghelan - Rampur Bhawanipur - Rampur Karkhana - Rampur Maniharan - Rampur Naikin - Rampura Phul - Ramtek - Ranapur - Ranavav - Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited - Ranbir Singh Pora - Rangapara - Rangareddy District - Rangavalli - Rana Sangha - Ranakpur - Raniganj - Ranip - Ranipettai - Ranipur, Uttar Pradesh - Ranirbazar - Rani Lakshmi Bai - Rann of Kutch - Ranoli - Rapar - Rashidpur Garhi - Rashtrakuta - Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh - Rasra - Rasulabad - Ratangarh - Ratannagar - Ratanpur - Rathore - Ratia - Ratibati - Ratlam - Ratlam District - Ratlam Railway Colony - Ratnagiri - Ratnagiri District - Raurkela Industrial Township - Ravi - Ravi River - Ravi Shankar - Rawalsar - Rawatbhata - Rawatsar - Raxaul Bazar - Rau - Rayachoti - Rayadurg - Rayagada - Rayagada District - Rayagiri - Rayalaseema - Raybag - Rayya (Punjab) - Reasi - Reddy - Redhakhol - Reengus - Reethapuram - Rehambal - Rehli - Rehti - Reis Magos - Reliance Industries Limited - Religara - Religion in India - Religions of Kerala - Religious pluralism - Remuna - Rengali Dam Projectship - Renigunta - Renukoot - Reoti - Repalle - Reserve Bank of India - Resubelpara - Revelganj - Revenue stamps of India - Rewa - Rewa District - Rewa Division - Rewa Kantha - Rewari (Rural) - Richha - Rickshaw - Rikhabdeo - Rishi Prakash Tyagi - Rishra - Risia Bazar - Risod - Rithora - Ritwik Ghatak - R.K. Narayan - Robert Caldwell - Robert Clive - Robertson Pet - Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka - Roha Ashtami - Rohilkhand - Rohinton Mistry - Rohraband - Rohru - Roing - Roja - Rosalpatti - Rosera - Roshan Pura - Rourkela - Royal Asiatic Society - Rudauli - Rudayan - Rudra Prayag - Rudrapur - Rudravathi - Rudyard Kipling - Marine archaeology in the Gulf of Cambay - Ruiya - Ruma Pal - Runji Gautampura - Rura - Rurki Kasba - Rustamnagar Sahaspur\n\nSabalgarh - Sabarmati River - Sabathu - Sabeer Bhatia - Sabroom - Sachin INA - Sachin Tendulkar - Sadabad - Sadalgi - Sadasivpet - Sadat Pur Gujran - Sadaura - Sadpur - Sadri - Sadulshahar - Safidon - Safipur - Sagar - Sagar Cantonment - Sagar District - Sagar Division - Sathya Sai Baba - Sai Baba of Shirdi - SAIL - Saint Thomas Christians - Salem - Salem District - Salman Khan - Salman Rushdie - Sam Browne - Sambalpur - Sambalpur District - Sambhaji - Sandalwood - Sangli - Sangli District - Saina Nehwal - Sanchayaka - Sandhi - Sania Mirza - Sanjay Gandhi National Park - Sankaracharya - Sanskrit - Santaldih - Santali language - Saraswati River - Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel - Sari - Sarkar (film) - Sarojini Naidu -Sarojini Sahoo- Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan - Sasthamkotta Lake - Satara - Satara District - Satem - Sathya Sai Baba - Sathyamangalam - Sati - Satna - Satna District - Satpura National Park - Satpura Range - Satyajit Ray - Satyendra Bose - Saugor and Nerbudda Territories - Saurashtra - Saur Valley - Sawai Madhopur - Sayyid dynasty - Scindia - SEBI - Search Engines - Second Anglo-Maratha War - Second Anglo-Mysore War - Second Anglo-Sikh War - Second Battle of Panipat - Second Battle of Tarain - Sehore - Sehore District - Seoni - Seoni District - Sesha - Sesodia - Sex-selective infanticide - Shah Jahan - Shahdol - Shahdol District - Shahi - Shajapur - Shajapur District - Sharad Pawar - Shastra - Sheila Dikshit - Shekhawati - Sheopur - Sheopur District - Sher Shah Suri - Shiboprosad Mukherjee - Shilparatna - Shimoga - Shimoga District - Shipra River - Shishunaga dynasty - Shiva - Shivaji - Shivpuri - Shivpuri District - Shiv Sena - Shobhana - Shola - Shubhendu - siddham - Sidhi District - Sikar - Sikh Gurus - Sikhism - Sikkim - Silhara dynasty - Peter Siddqiue - Sindh - Sindh River - Sindhudurg - Sindhudurg District - Sino-Indian War - Sino-Tibetan languages - Sirohi - Sirohi District - Sivaganga - Sivaganga District - Six Acres and a Third -Slave dynasty - Smiling Buddha - Soar Valley, India - Sohra - Solanki - Solapur - Solapur District - Soma - Somnath - Son River - Sonapur, Assam - Sonbhadra - Sonpur, Bihar - Sonepur, Odisha - Sonepur (Odisha Vidhan Sabha constituency) - Sonepur District - Sonepur State - Sonia Gandhi - South Asia - South Deccan Plateau dry deciduous forests - South Delhi - South Dumdum - South India - South Kannanur - South Kodikulam - South Nallur - South West Delhi - South Western Ghats moist deciduous forests - South Western Ghats montane rain forests - Sport in India - Sports in Delhi - Punnala Sreekumar - Sri Lanka - Sri Sri Ravi Shankar - Srikakulam - Srirangapatna - Srisailam - S. N. Srivastava - Stamps and postal history of India - Star World - State Bank of India - State terrorism - States and territories of India - Students Islamic Movement of India - Subarnapur, Odisha - Subcontinent - Subramanya (village) - Sundarbans - Sundarbans freshwater swamp forests - Sundergarh - Sundergarh District - Shunga dynasty - Sunil Gavaskar - Supreme Court of India - Suraiya - Surat - Surat District - Surati goat - Sushruta - sutra - Suudu - Swami Dayananda - Swami Keshwanand - Swamithoppepathi - Swami Vivekananda - Swathi Thirunal - Swayamvara - Swastika - Syrian Christian - Syro-Malabar Church - Syrian Malabar Nasrani - Syro-Malankara Catholic Church\n\nSagwara - Sahajadpur - Sahanpur - Sahapur - Sahaspur - Sahaswan - Sahatwar - Sahawar - Sahibabad Daulat Pur - Sahjanwa - Sahnewal - Sahnidih - Sahpau NP - Saidul Ajaib - Saiha - Sailu - Sainthal, Rajasthan - Sainthal, Uttar Pradesh - Sainthia - Sairang - Saitual - Saiyad Raja - Sakhanu - Sakit - Sakleshpur - Salakati - Salangapalayam - Salap - Salarpur Khadar - Salaya - Salempur, Gaya - Salempur, Saran - Salempur, Uttar Pradesh - Saligao - Salumbar - Salur - Samalapuram - Samalkha - Samalkota - Samathur - Sambavar Vadagarai - Sambhal - Sambhalka - Samdhan - Samrala - Samthar - Samurou - Sanaur - Sanawad - Sancoale - Sandi - Sandila - Sangamner - Sangli-Miraj & Kupwad - Sangod - Sangole - Sangtar - Sankaramanallur - Sankarapuram - Sankari - Sankarnagar - Sankarpur - Sankeshwar - Sankhol - Sankrail - Sanoth - Sanquelim - Sansarpur - Santipur - Santokhgarh - Santrampur - Sanvordem - Sao Jose-de-Areal - Sapatgram - Sarai Aquil - Sarai Mir - Saraidhela - Saraipali - Sarangarh - Sarangpur, Madhya Pradesh - Sarapaka - Saravanampatti - Sarbhog - Sarcarsamakulam - Sardarshahar - Sardulgarh - Sarenga - Sarigam INA - Sarila - Sarjamda - Sarkaghat - Sarkhej-Okaf - Sarni - Sarsawan - Sarthebari - Sarupathar - Sarupathar Bengali - Sarwar - Sasauli - Sasni - Sasti - Sasvad - Satalkheri - Sathankulam - Sathiyavijayanagaram - Sathuvachari - Sathyamangala - Satigachha - Satrikh - Sattenapalle - Satwas - Saunda - Saundatti-Yellamma - Saunkh - Saurikh - Sausar - Savarkundla - Savda - Savita Bhabhi - Savner - Sawari Jawharnagar - Sawer - Sayalgudi - Sayapuram - Sedam - Seerapalli - Seevur - Seithur - Sekmai Bazar - Semaria - Sembakkam -Sembukudipatti- Semmipalayam - Senchoa Gaon - Sendhwa - Senthamangalam - Sentharapatti - Senur - Seohara - Seondha - Seoni Malwa - Serchhip - Serpur - Sethia - Sethiathoppu - Sevilimedu - Sevugampatti - Sewai - Sewalkhas - Sewarhi - Shahabad ACC - Shahapur - Shahbad - Shahganj - Shahgarh - Shahkot - Shaktigarh - Shaktinagar, Uttar Pradesh - Shamchaurasi - Shamgarh - Shamli - Shamsabad, Agra - Shankargarh - Shankhanagar - Shekhpura - Shelar - Shenbakkam - Shendurjana - Shenkottai - Shergarh - Sherkot - Shiggaon - Shikohabad - Shillong Cantonment - Shirhatti - Shirpur-Warwade - Shirur (Maharashtra) - Shirwal - Shishgarh - Shivatkar (Nira) - Shivli - Shivrajpur - Shivrinarayan - Shohratgarh - Sholavandan - Sholinganallur - Sholur - Shorapur - Shorea robusta - Shrirampur - Shrirampur(Rural) - Shrirangapattana - Shrivardhan - Shujalpur - Shupiyan - Siana - Siddapur - Siddhaur - Sidhauli - Sidhpura - Sidlaghatta - Siduli - Sihor - Sihora - Sijhua - Sijua - Sikanderpur, Punjab - Sikandra - Sikandra Rao - Sikandrabad - Sikhong Sekmai - Sikkarayapuram - Silapathar - Silchar Part-X - Sillewada - Simga - Sindgi - Sindi Turf Hindnagar - Sindkhed Raja - Sinduria - Singahi Bhiraura - Singampuneri - Singaperumalkoil - Singarayakonda - Singarva - Singnapur - Singoli - Singtam - Singur - Sinhasa - Siolim - Siralkoppa - Siras Pur - Sirathu - Sirauli - Sirgiti - Sirgora - Sirhind -Fategarh - Sirka - Sirkali - Sirsaganj - Sirsha - Sirsilla - Sirugamani - Siruguppa - Sisauli - Sitarganj - Sithayankottai - Sithurajapuram - Siuliban - Sivanthipuram - Siwani - Sobhaganj - Socorro, Goa - Sogariya - Sohagpur - Sohna - Sojat - Sojat Road - Someshwar, Karkala taluk - Sompeta - Sonamukhi - Sonamura - Sonari - Sonatikiri - Sonegaon (Nipani) - Songadh - Sonkatch - Sonpeth - Sorab - Soron - Soyagaon - Soyatkalan - Sri Hargobindpur - Sri Madhopur - Srikalahasti - Srikantabati - Srimushnam - Srinivaspur - Sriramapuram - Sriramnagar - Srirampur - Srisailam Project (RFC) Township - Srisailamgudem Devasthanam - Srivaikuntam - Srivilliputhur - St.Thomas Mount-cum-Pallavaram - Sualkuchi - Suchindram - Sugauli - Sugnu - Suhagi - Sujanpur - Sukdal - Suket - Suket State - Sukhmalpur Nizamabad - Sukhrali - Suleeswaranpatti - Sultan Pur - Sultan Pur Majra - Sultanganj - Sultanpur Lodhi - Sulur - Sulya - Sunam - Sundarapandiam - Sundarapandiapuram - Sundarnagar - Sunderbani - Surada - Surajgarh - Surajkaradi - Surampatti - Surandai - Suratgarh - Suratkal - Surendranagar Dudhrej - Surgana - Suriyampalayam - Suriyawan - Suryaraopeta - Susner - Suthaliya - Swamibagh\n\nTathagata Mukherjee - Thanjavur - Tirunelveli - Tiruchirappalli - Tamil Nadu\nThawe mandir - Azim Tyabji\n\nUchana - Uchgaon - UCO Bank - Udaipur - Udaipur, Tripura - Udaipur District - Udaipur Division - Udaipura - Udaipurwati - Udalguri - Udayarpalayam - Udma - Udpura - Udumalaipettai - Udupi - Udupi District - Ugu - Ujhani - Ujhari - Ujjain - Ujjain District - Ujjain Division - Ukai - Ukhra - Uklanamandi - Ukwa - Ulhas River - Ulhasnagar - Ullur - Uluberia - Ulundurpettai - Uma Bharati - Umarga - Umaria - Umaria District - Umarkhed - Umarkote - Umarsara - Umbar Pada Nandade - Umbergaon - Umbergaon INA - Umrangso - Umred - Umri - Umri Kalan - Umri Pragane Balapur - Uncha Siwana - Unchahar - Unchehara - Unhel - Uniara - United Provinces of Agra and Oudh - University of Mumbai - University of Patna - Unjalaur - Unjha - Unnamalaikadai - Upleta - Uppal Kalan - Upper Sileru Project Site Camp - Upper Tadong - Uppidamangalam - Uppiliapuram - Uran Islampur - Urapakkam - Uravakonda - Urmar Tanda - Upper Bagh Devi Temple - Upper Gangetic Plains moist deciduous forests - Urdu language - Usawan - Usehat - Usilampatti - Utekhol - Uthamapalayam - Uthangarai - Uthayendram - Uthiramerur - Uthukkottai - Uthukuli - Utran - Uttar Bagdogra - Uttar Durgapur - Uttar Goara - Uttar Kalas - Uttar Kamakhyaguri - Uttar Krishnapur Part-I - Uttar Latabari - Uttar Mahammadpur - Uttar Pirpur - Uttar Pradesh - Uttar Raypur - Uttara Kannada - Uttarahalli - Uttarakhand - Uttarpara Kotrung\n\nV. P. Singh - V. Pudur - V.S. Naipaul - Vaastu Shastra - Vadakarai Keezhpadugai - Vadakkanandal - Vadakkuvalliyur - Vadalur - Vadamadurai - Vadavalli - Vadgaon Budruk - Vadgaon Maval - Vadgaon Kasba - Vadia, Banaskantha - Vadia (Narmada) - Vadia, Saurashtra - Vadipatti - Vadnagar - Vadugapatti - Vadodara - Vagad - Vaghela dynasty - Vaghodia INA - Vaigai River - Vaijapur - Vaikunta Ekadasi - Vaishali District - Vaitheeswarankoil - Vajpayee, Atal Behari - Vajrayana - Valangaiman - Valasaravakkam - Valavanur - Vallachira - Vallam - Valley of Flowers - Valluvar Kottam - Valparai - Valpoi - Valsad INA - Valvaithankoshtam - Van Rawats - Vanasthali - Vanavasi - Vandalur - Vandiyur - Vaigai Dam - Vaniputhur - Vanita Srivastava - Vanthali - Vanvadi (Sadashivgad) - Vaparala - Vapi INA - Varadarajanpettai - Varam - Varappuzha - Varca - Varghese Payyappilly Palakkappilly - Vartej - Vasai-Virar - Vasantnagar - Vasco da Gama - Vasco da Gama, Goa - Vashind - Vasna Borsad INA - Vastral - Vastrapur - Vasudevanallur - Vasundhara Raje Scindia - Vathirairuppu - Vazhapadi - Vedanta - Vedapatti - Vedapureeswarar temple - Vedaranyam - Vedas - Vedasandur - Vedavathi River - Vedic Civilization - Vedic Saraswati River - Veeraganur - Veerakeralam - Veerakkalpudur - Veerapandi - Veerappan - Veerappanchatram - Veeravanallur - Veerbhadra - Vehicle Fac. Jabalpur - Vejalpur - Velampalayam - Vellakinar - Vellakoil - Vellalur - Vellimalai - Vellore - Vellore district - Vellottamparappu - Velur - Vembanad Lake - Vengampudur - Vengathur - Venkarai - Venkatagiri - Venkatapura - Venmanad - Vennanthur - Vepagunta - Veppathur - Verkilambi - Vetapalem - Vettavalam - Vicarabad - Viceroy of India - Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute - Vidarbha - Vidisha - Vidisha District - Vijaigarh - Vijainagar - Vijalpor - Vijapur - Vijay Pur - Vijayanagara - Vijayanagara empire - Vijayapura - Vijayapuri - Vijayapuri (North) - Vijayawada - Vijayraghavgarh - Vikasnagar - Vikram (name) - Vikram Seth - Vikramshila - Vikramasingapuram - Vikravandi - Vilangudi - Vilankurichi - Vilapakkam - Vilavur - Villiappally - Villukuri - Viluppuram - Viluppuram District - Vindhya Pradesh - Vindhya Range - Vinod Khosla - Vinukonda - Viramgam - Virasaivism - Virudhachalam - Virudhunagar - Virudhunagar District - - Virupakshipuram - Visakhapatnam - Visakhapatnam District - Visavadar - Vishwa Hindu Parishad - Vishwa Mangal Gou Gram Yatra - Vishrampur - Visnagar - Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum - Viswanatham - Vitthal Udyognagar INA - Vyara\n\nWadgaon Amali - Wadgaon Darya - Wadgaon Pr Adgaon - Wadgaon Road - Wadgaon Savtal - Wadgaon Sheri - Wadi ACC - Waghapur - Wainganga River - Wajegaon - Walajabad - Walani - Waliv - Walluvanad - Wanadongri - Wanaparthi - Wangoi - Wankaner - Wara Seoni - Warangal - Wardha River - Warhapur - Warisaliganj - Warud - Water supply and sanitation in India - Wayanad - Wazirganj - West Banas River - West Bengal - West Delhi - West Godavari district - Western Railway - Wipro - Wodeyar\n\nYadava Dynasty - Yairipok - Yakshagana - Yashaswi - Yavatmal - Yavatmal District - Yawal - Yelbarga - Yellapur - Yenagudde - Yeola - Yerkheda - Yerraguntla - Yoga-Yogi Adityanath- Young Zoroastrian Club - Yuvraj Singh\n\nZalod - Zamania - Zamin Uthukuli - Zamorin - Zanskar - Zawlnuam - Zee TV - Zero - Ziauddin Pur - Zirakpur - Zoroastrianism - Zubin Mehta\n\n"}
{"id": "21779366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21779366", "title": "Isandra", "text": "Isandra\n\nThe Caves and Cliffs of Isandra are located in the Betsileo cultural region of Madagascar, roughly 30 km to the northwest of the regional capital of Fianarantsoa.\n\nThe site consists of a large granite North-South cliff face, which has been eroded over millions of years. Through landslides, granite blocks pile up at the base of the cliffs and create open spaces or \"caves\". During the 17th and 18th Centuries, due to the defensive possibilities created by the caves and heavy rocks, inhabitants occupied many of the caves and fortified them with walls of stone and mortar.\n\nThis site was added to the Tentative List of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Madagascar on November 14, 1997 in the Mixed (Cultural + Natural) category.\n\nFalaise et grottes de l'Isandra - UNESCO World Heritage Centre Retrieved 2009-03-02.\n"}
{"id": "19809484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19809484", "title": "Kate Edwards", "text": "Kate Edwards\n\nKate Edwards was the executive director of the International Game Developers Association from December 2012 to June 2017. She is a geographer, writer and content culturalization strategist, most active in information-based cartography and video game content. Edwards spent over a decade working in various roles at Microsoft, creating the Geopolitical Strategy team and working to evaluate and manage geopolitical and cultural content in software products. After leaving Microsoft she founded Englobe (now Geogrify) as a consulting firm engaged in content culturalization and strategy, primarily for the video game industry.\n\nEdwards received a B.A. in geography and a certificate in cartography from California State University, Long Beach. She received an M.A. and PhC in geography at the University of Washington.\n\nEdwards was the geopolitical strategist for Microsoft between 1992 and 2005. She assisted with Microsoft's virtual earth technology and Encarta World Atlas project. She proposed and founded a new team called Geopolitical Strategy in 1998. As Microsoft's Senior Geopolitical Strategist, Edwards was responsible for the risk assessment of geopolitical and cultural content across all products and locales. In the Microsoft Studios, Edwards implemented a geopolitical quality review process which was used to evaluate PC and Xbox titles.\n\nIn March 2005, she left Microsoft to launch Englobe (now Geogrify), a consulting firm specializing in content culturalization and strategy in video games, cartography and general cultural sensitivities in digital content. Through Englobe, Edwards was involved on games such as \"Dragon Age II\" and \"\".\n\nEdwards was the founder and chair of the Game Localization Special Interest Group (SIG) in the International Game Developers Association (IGDA), and served as a board of directors member for the IGDA Seattle chapter. Edwards was awarded the IGDA's 2011 MVP award for her contributions to the organization and to the game industry. In December 2012, she was appointed as the executive director of the International Game Developers Association after Gordon Bellamy moved on from the position. Edwards left IDGA in 2017. \n\nEdwards was listed as one of \"The 10 Most Powerful Women In Gaming\" in 2013 by \"Fortune\", and in 2014 she was named as one of the video games industry's six \"People of the Year\".\n"}
{"id": "19286727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19286727", "title": "Laxárdalur", "text": "Laxárdalur\n\nLaxárdalur (Old Norse: \"Laxárdalr\") is a region in northwestern Iceland. It was the setting for the \"Laxdæla saga\" and the home of such famous early Icelanders as Aud the Deep-Minded, Hoskuld Dala-Kollsson, Hrútr Herjólfsson, and Olaf the Peacock.\n"}
{"id": "48693870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48693870", "title": "Leif Erikson Awards", "text": "Leif Erikson Awards\n\nThe Leif Erikson Awards, sometimes referred to as the Exploration Awards, are awarded annually by the Exploration Museum in Húsavík, Iceland, for achievements in exploration and for work in the field of exploration history. They are awarded in three categories; to an explorer for a lifetime achievement in exploration; to a young explorer under the age of 35 for achievements in exploration; and to a person or an organization that has worked to promote and preserve exploration history. \n\nThe awards ceremony takes place annually in Húsavík. The Leif Erikson Awards are the main and final event of the annual \"Húsavík Explorers Festival\". They were first awarded in 2015 and will be awarded next in September 2018.\n\nThe awards are named for Icelandic explorer Leif Erikson, considered as the first European to land in North America and who, according to the Sagas of Icelanders, established the first Norse settlement at Vinland, tentatively identified with the Norse L'Anse aux Meadows on the northern tip of Newfoundland in modern-day Canada.\n\nThe President of Iceland, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, and his predecessor, President Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, have both presented the awards.\n\nThe winners of the Leif Erikson awards are voted by the members of the Exploration Museum's Scientific Committee. The committee is appointed for one year by the board of the museum, except for the chairperson, who is the winner of the previous year's Exploration History Award.\n\nThe 2015 Leif Erikson Awards were announced by the President of Iceland, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, on 9 July at the Reykjavík University Auditorium.\n\nThe 2016 Leif Erikson Awards were announced by the President of Iceland, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, on 22 October at the Explorers Festival in Húsavík.\n\nThe 2017 Leif Erikson Awards were presented by BBC World News Anchor Babita Sharma, on 23 September at the Explorers Festival in Húsavík.\n\nThe 2018 Leif Erikson Awards will be announced in September 2018. Nominations are scheduled to be accepted in January 2018. \n\nThe Leif Erikson Awards are the main event of the annual Húsavík Explorers Festival. The festival was first held in 2015 with events in Húsavík and Reykjavík. The format of the festival took shape in 2016 and has stayed the same since, with the festival consisting of short expeditions and outdoor activities around Húsavík, young explorers workshops, talks by explorers, concerts, film screenings and art exhibitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "42208392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42208392", "title": "List of Icelandic singers", "text": "List of Icelandic singers\n\nThis is a list of singers from Iceland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2531016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2531016", "title": "List of New Zealand flags", "text": "List of New Zealand flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used in New Zealand. Some flags are shown for official purposes, while others are informal designs.\n"}
{"id": "2441164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2441164", "title": "List of city districts by population density", "text": "List of city districts by population density\n\nThis is a list of the most densely populated city subdivisions (30,000+ inh./km²) in the world. Most are districts of large cities and may vary significantly in regional importance. Note this list is not exhaustive as data is hard to come by for many places on earth.\n\n\nAt least a dozen barangays have population densities over 200,000 people per square km, which are very small sections or neighborhoods (not city districts) within Manila, with the highest that of Barangay 717 at 277,007.3 people per square km.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "865835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=865835", "title": "List of extreme points of Australia", "text": "List of extreme points of Australia\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Australia. The list includes extremes of cardinal direction, elevation, and other points of peculiar geographic interest. The location of some points depend on whether islands and the Australian Antarctic Territory (which is not universally recognised) are included.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24813174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24813174", "title": "List of metropolitan areas in Asia", "text": "List of metropolitan areas in Asia\n\nThe Asian continent is one of the fastest-growing continents in the World, with increasing urbanisation and a high growth rate for cities. Tokyo in Japan is the world's largest metropolitan area by population.\n\nThe population of the given cities are obtained from five different sources:\n\n\nOut of these five sources, the highest estimate is shown in bold. The cities are ranked on the basis of their highest estimate of population. Some remarks:\n\n\n\n\nThe table is color-coded to show which region of Asia each city is in. The color-code key is as follows:\nWith twenty cities, East Asia accounts for half of cities under this list, with China having the lion's share with fifteen cities, South Asia comes second with ten cities, seven of which are in India. Southeast Asia accounts for seven cities and West Asia with just three cities.\n\n"}
{"id": "20124154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20124154", "title": "List of minor The Mighty Boosh characters", "text": "List of minor The Mighty Boosh characters\n\nThe following is a list of minor characters from \"The Mighty Boosh\", including characters from the television series, the radio series, and the various stage shows. For significant recurring characters see \"List of recurring characters from The Mighty Boosh\".\n\nIn the episode \"Killeroo\",\nhe appears in a dream to Vince to show him how Howard can beat Killeroo. Played by Peter Kyriacou.\n\nAppears in \"Nanageddon\". One of the goth girls that Howard and Vince attempt to impress. Played by Dee Plume.\n\nAppears in \"Bollo\". Vince teaches The Ape of Death about hair products in exchange for Howard's soul. Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nAppears in \"Call of the Yeti\". A Welsh shaman, whom Naboo meets in Shamansbury's, a spoof on Sainsbury's. Barry has recently upgraded his familiar from a black cat to a bat named Chrissie. Played by Noel Fielding.\n\nAppears in \"Fountain of Youth\". The fittest, strongest and fastest in the land, Banoo was originally intended to go to Earth from Xooberon instead of Naboo. Unfortunately, he always arrives slightly too late. Played by Ramon Tikaram.\n\nAppears in \"The Priest and The Beast\". A bandit that has been terrorising a small desert town, killing all the men and having his way with the women. An obsolete format, he is seeking revenge because Spider slept with his wife. The Betamax Bandit consists primarily of unwound Betamax video tape. He sends out tendrils of tape to ensnare his victims, then winds them into himself. He is allergic to peanut butter. Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nAppears in \"Tundra\", an arctic explorer who found the Egg of Mantumbi before being frozen by Black Frost. His surname is derived from real-life polar explorer Ernest Shackleton.\n\nAppears in \"Nanageddon\". The caller at the local bingo hall who uses unorthodox rhymes while calling, including that he was 43 when he lost his virginity. The bingo calling style is continued in the page numbering of \"The Mighty Book of Boosh\". Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nAppears in \"Fountain of Youth\". He is the diminutive leader of the native Xooberon tribe. His head extends upwards under his hat. He is balding, but wears a rather pathetic comb-over. He kills anyone who comes searching for the Fountain of Youth. Howard and Vince are spared as Vince has the amulet, making him the Chosen One. He possesses a lustful obsession for the Chosen One, going so far as to cut off his own hand, gift-wrapping it and giving it to Vince as a present. Howard, on the other hand, was made a slave after mocking his short stature. After Howard loses the amulet, He buries them to their necks in the desert sand. Played by Rich Fulcher on his knees.\n\nAppear in \"The Chokes\". A performance group blending the Blue Man Group with John McEnroe. Also mentioned in \"The Mighty Book of Boosh\".\n\nAppears in \"Tundra\". An evil creature who inhabits the Arctic. Is presumably killed, or knocked unconscious by the polar bear befriended by Vince. Releases freezing blasts from his codpiece. Played by Dave Brown.\n\nAppear in \"The Chokes\". A band portrayed by The Horrors. Their singer was killed by Bollo and Naboo. Vince auditioned for the vacant position of lead singer, but the role eventually went to Sammy the Crab, due to their skinny legs policy. The Horrors include Faris Badwan, Rhys Webb, Joe Spurgeon, Joshua Hayward and Tom Cowan.\n\nA futuristic pleasurebot. It is programmed to \"poke and suck off anything in sight\". Appears in \"Boosh Live\". Played by Rich Fulcher\n\nAppears in \"The Strange tale Of The Crack Fox\", Sitting next to the Crack Fox on the train, and saying, \"We're On A Train\".\n\nAppears in \"The Nightmare of Milky Joe\". A man made of eggs and sausages who runs away when Vince suggests they should eat him as opposed to each other. Played by Noel Fielding.\n\nA parody of Chris deBurgh, appearing in the series two episode \"The Priest and the Beast\", and the series three episode \"Party\". He spent at least ten years searching for the new sound in the desert. Played by Ray Fielding (Noel and Mike Fielding's father).\n\nAppears in \"Charlie\". The protagonist of Vince's books, made of used bubblegum. He has a moustache and bowler hat. He is actually real (within the show) despite Howard's scorn and arrives at the zoo to take revenge on Dixon Bainbridge and Hamilton Cork. Also featured in \"The Mighty Book of Boosh\". Played by Peter Kyriacou.\n\nAppears in \"The Legend of Old Gregg\". Colin is the barman at the local pub owned by Jeff. Colin will only serve good honest fisherman's drinks (such as maggot cider) and food (such as maggot bhuna). He is also known to hand out pipes and beards to those he respects. Played by James Bachman.\n\nAppears in \"Bollo\". He works as the receptionist in Limbo. His wife is dead, but apparently is alright. Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nAppears in \"Charlie\". A famous publisher who Vince tries to get to publish his Charlie stories. His head resembles a large conker. Played by Simon Farnaby.\n\nAppears in \"The Strange Tale of the Crack Fox\". A fox who traveled to London from Cambridge in search of fortune, but has fallen on hard times. The fox was called Jerome, living in the woods, in Elderberry wood of England. He spent his days punting down the lazy rivers of Cambridge town, occasionally sitting under Mr. Willow the tree to eat a cucumber sandwich. One day he found a copy of Cheekbone Magazine and he read an article about London life. He read it over and over, and over, and over again, and over. Against his friends' wishes, the wilful little fox goes to the city and gets off his tiny face in a gay bar – fun, fun times for him. But the days of partying burned the fox out as he ends up on the streets homeless, begging for cheese in Dalston.\n\nThe Crack Fox takes up residence in the pile of bin bags behind the Nabootique. During the episode he tricks Vince into letting him inside, farts in Vince's face and then steals Naboo's shaman juice to enact his scheme to take over the world. After absorbing the magic juice through his syringe fingers in the light of the full moon, which makes the juice all activated, he becomes incredibly powerful (demonstrating telekinesis) before being stopped by a tramp that Vince had befriended – a tramp who had never been given anything prior to being given a wondrous cape. He was going to rape Vince and leave him in a bin, but subsequently decided he was née. The Crack Fox is later crushed to death in a garbage truck while pursuing Vince and Howard who took the shaman juice back during the struggle. It is also implied that the Crack Fox fancies Vince Noir. He also stated having two friends called Nicholas the Tennis Rat and Dante the racist Badger, who hates bloody whites. The Crack Fox is played by Julian Barratt.\n\nAppears in \"The Legend of Old Gregg\". A corpse stuck to the roof of Old Gregg's underwater cave. It is believed that Old Gregg killed him because Jefferson did not love him. Curly Jefferson is also the name of a conference room in Mason, OH.\n\nA member of the board of shamans, appearing like a textbook green witch in appearance. Played by Barunka O'Shaughnessy.\n\nAppears in \"The Priest and the Beast\". A fellow Bongo Brother of Rudi van DiSarzio, Spider is a highly sexually charged drummer with a heavy Mexican accent, having trouble with English idioms. Spider had an affair with Rudi's wife during the 60s, an ongoing source of tension between them. He has come to the attention of Carlos Santana, who tries to recruit him. He defeats Betamax by rewinding him using his newly acquired door. He was named by Rudi after the love of mustard he demonstrated as a child, and the fact that he has \"eight of something\". Played by Noel Fielding.\n\nAppears in \"The Power of the Crimp\". Almost complete copies of Howard and Vince, calling themselves The Flighty Zeus. They are somehow able to copy everything Howard and Vince do and somehow know how to play The Boosh's song \"Future Sailors\" after only hearing a few seconds of it. They are beaten by The Boosh in a crimp-off at the Velvet Onion. Despite this they continue to attempt to steal the Boosh's limelight, vandalising copies of their recent book. Played by Tom Meeten and Simon Farnaby.\n\nAppears in season 3 \"The Strange Tale of the Crack Fox\". A homeless man who assists Vince in finding Howard (whom he refers to as 'shrimp eyes'). Vince gives Donni a 'wondrous cape' which prompts him to admit that he had planned on raping Vince and leaving him in a bin but then gives his own life to save the lives of Howard and Vince. Drinks cans of extra-strong lager, which he refers to as \"electric soup\". Drinking them turns him into \"The Electric Superman.\" He fights the Crack Fox at the end of the episode, in repayment for Vince giving him the aforementioned 'wondrous cape', giving Howard and Vince time to escape the sewer. Played by Steve Oram.\n\nAppears in \"Nanageddon\". One of the goth girls that Howard and Vince attempt to impress. Played by Sue Denim.\n\nAppears in \"Eels\". An older woman who solicits sexual favours from Howard due to the graffiti outside the Nabootique. Howard eventually reluctantly sleeps with Eleanor so that he can earn enough money to pay off the Hitcher. She later arrives in the shop to stop the Hitcher from killing Howard. Has the habit of stretching out the final syllables of Hello and Goodbye (including in writing). Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nAppears in \"The Fountain of Youth\", is a tree that is summoned by The Hitcher and told to \"go about your wicked foul business\", he then attempts to attack Howard, Vince, Naboo and Bollo, but is foiled by Sandstorm and sanded down into a table. Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nSubject of a \"gather round everyone...\" joke. Played by Dave Brown.\n\nAppears in \"Hitcher\". Lives in the forest with a cast of Jungle Book-inspired animals, where he raised the young Vince ala Mowgli. Played by Julian Barratt.\n\nAppears in \"Jungle\". Subject of a \"gather round everyone...\" joke. Played by Dave Brown.\n\nAppears in \"The Legend of Old Gregg\". Described as 'a funky ball of tits from outer space'. Howard steals it from Old Gregg and achieves The Funk. Played by Noel Fielding\n\nAppears in \"The Chokes\". A legendary actor who coaches Howard in his secret woodland acting dojo. Dies at the end of Howard's tuition a heart attack. Played by Noel Fielding. This character is an homage to Peter Sellers' Warrington Minge from his interview with Parkinson in 1974.\n\nNuman appeared as himself in \"The Power of the Crimp\" in a closet that Howard opened to reveal him in order to comfort Vince.\n\nAppears in \"The Chokes\". A famous avant-garde director whose works include \"The Doctor and The Pencil\". He is idolised by Howard. In the episode he plans to make an advert about \"The angry crab of trapped wind.\" Initially looks to hire Sammy the Crab but eventually recruits Howard instead. Played by Julian Barratt. His name is a parody on German philosopher Jürgen Habermas.\n\nAppears in \"The Legend of Old Gregg\". He is the only man who has survived an encounter with Old Gregg. When asked about this, he replies by screaming loudly.\n\nIs a Glaswegian fox at the Zooniverse and appears in \"Bollo\". Is uncomfortable with Howard Moon, and there's a rumour it's because Howard \"bummed him\".\n\nMentioned but not seen in \"The Legend of Old Gregg\". He owns the bar in the village, and drinks maggot cider and eats maggot bhunas. He only allows these to be sold in his bar.\n\nAppears in \"Killeroo\". One of the boxers at the gym. Has exceptionally long arms. He always gets his man. Played by Olly Ralfe.\n\nAppears in \"Killeroo\" and \"Mutants\". An Australian zookeeper at the Zooniverse, whose death prompts Howard and Vince to investigate Bainbridge's experiments. Played by Dave Brown.\n\nAppears in \"The Power of the Crimp\" to eat the Moon's imposter. He is mentioned on many other occasions. Unlike the Moon, Jupiter has no song. Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nAppears in \"Fountain of Youth\". The ruling King of Planet Xooberon, he summoned the warrior Banoo in 1978 to guard the Amulet of the Fountain of Youth from the evil forces of The Hitcher (\"the evil cockney\"). However, Banoo was slightly late as ever, and he ended up giving the Amulet to Naboo the Enigma by mistake. Years later once the Hitcher was defeated, the King intened to reward Naboo by inviting him to reign along side him, eat lentils and listening to Folk (music) music, but Naboo declined.\n\nAppears in \"Killeroo\". A boxing kangaroo that Howard fights in order to gain the affections of Mrs. Gideon. Is defeated by Howard Moon after Vince Noir grabs the Killeroo's testicles.\n\nAppears in \"Call of the Yeti\". A grizzled hunter who owns the cabin The Boosh stay in. Gives Howard a map to the Yeti's home in exchange for spending the night with Vince. When he attempts to give Vince a \"Grizzly Adams bumming\", Vince burns his nose with a straightening iron. Kodiak Jack is later set upon by the Yeti after rescuing the others. Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nOne of Vince's friends; appears in the episode \"Party\". He's French, and he's a cube. Played by Dave Brown\n\nA frequently-mentioned but mostly unseen friend of Howard and Vince. Often mentioned by Vince to back up his arguments with Howard. Played acoustic guitar for Vince's glam-folk band. It has been said that Leroy works at the laser copy center, but it has also been said that he works at the ice rink and \"sells slush puppies.\"\n\nAppears in \"Jungle\". Appears when summoned mistakenly by Vince using a magic flute given to him by Rudi Van DiSarzio. Played by Martin Trenaman.\n\nAppears in \"The Legend of Old Gregg\". Lucien is a weathered fisherman who now spends his time telling tales rather than fishing. He warns Vince about Old Gregg after Howard has gone out on Black Lake at full moon. Played by Julian Barratt.\n\nAppears in \"Charlie\". He is presented as a famous actor, known among fans as a maker of \"devised pieces\" and among critics for having a head that resembles a conker. He then plays the role of \"Hamilton Cork\" in the episode. Played by Simon Alexander Farnaby.\n\nAppears in \"Party\". The wife of Dennis and an extreme sports calendar model. She attempts to seduce Vince in order to make her husband jealous. Played by Dolly Wells.\n\nAppears in \"Killeroo\". One of the boxers at the gym. His face appears to consist entirely of human fists.\n\nAppears in \"The Nightmare of Milky Joe\". He is the product of Howard's feverish imagination when cast away on a desert island. He is a good listener, but Howard ultimately tires of his boring lectures.\nMilky Joe composes a hit song called \"Isolation\" with his band, Milky Joe and the Coconuts.\n\nAppears in \"The Priest & The Beast\". Seems to take an interest in Rudi and tells him about Betamax. Monkey has visions, drinks her own urine and smells of peanuts. Because of this, she is spurned by the other women. She is described by Spider as 'the woollen bullet'. Played by Alice Lowe.\n\nAppear in \"Mutants\". A race of mutated animals created by Dixon Bainbridge's splicing experiments. Vince and Howard give them their freedom. They appear to be led by a mutant with a squid for a head, who considers himself the prettiest.\n\nAppears in \"Nanageddon\". A demon summoned by Howard and Vince to impress goth girls. An exceptionally dangerous creature, she has a five-star rating, kills people using a bus pass and knitting needles and is also capable of quickly creating knitting to bind her victims. Played by Margaret John.\n\nSubject of a \"gather round everyone...\" joke. Played by Dave Brown\n\nAppears in \"Electro\". A performer in the band \"Kraftwork Orange\", a band that Vince and Howard join. Also appears in \"The Mighty Book of Boosh\". After leaving the band she co-founds \"Orange Work-Kraft\". Played by Dee Plume.\n\nAppears in \"Eels\". Lead singer of the Neon Needles, a pop star that Vince is attempting to tag. Has legs similar to a flamingo and flies away when startled. Played by Anthony Rossomando of Dirty Pretty Things.\n\nAppears in \"The Legend of Old Gregg\". He appears briefly after being mentioned by Lucien because he has never been fishing.\n\nIs mentioned but not seen in \"Eels\". Vince plays him in Howard's improvisational attempt to prove to Vince that his elbow patches are useful.\n\nIn the episode \"Fountain of Youth\", Peppo is the greatest artist ever produced by the Blue-skinned tribe of Xooberon. Peppo paints a portrait of Vince as \"the chosen one\". When Vince comments that he likes it but the fringe is a bit short, Peppo kills himself. Played by Tom Meeten.\n\nA friend of Naboo's who works in Dixons, he is first seen in \"Bollo\" in Naboo's kiosk, he is not a shaman but he does accompany the shaman on a stag weekend in \"Eels\". He is played by Peter Kyriacou\n\nAppears in \"Bollo\"\". A cockney grim reaper that comes to collect Bollo's soul, but takes Howard by mistake. Played by Noel Fielding.\n\nHenchmen of The Hitcher. Named Jim and Jackie Piper. In \"Hitcher\" they both appear. In \"The Fountain of Youth\", the Hitcher's second appearance, only one appears. And in \"Eels\", his final appearance, none of them appear. They also appear in the 2006 and 2009 stage shows with the Hitcher. Played by Rich Fulcher and Dave Brown.\n\nA picture of a horse Vince Noir draws in \"The Strange Tale of the Crack Fox\" that helps him find the \"Crack Fox\".\n\nThe second coconut girl to appear in \"The Nightmare of Milky Joe\". She is accidentally murdered by Howard Moon.\n\nAppears in \"The Legend of Old Gregg\". An artist who befriends Howard and Vince. He rents them his boat so they can go fishing on Black Lake. Ramsay's art consists of sticking shells to things, including his wife Matilda. Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nAppear in \"The Priest and The Beast\" as themselves using a metal detector trying to find the \"new sound\".\n\nAppear in \"Journey to the Centre of the Punk\". Vince's red blood cells are attacked by the Spirit of Jazz. They are easily lured by promise of beauty products and other such things. Played by Noel Fielding.\n\nAppears at the end of \"The Priest and The Beast\" as himself, vacuuming the ground in reference to an earlier joke about Woodstock.\n\nThe first coconut girl to appear in \"The Nightmare of Milky Joe\". She is Vince's \"girlfriend\" while on the island.\n\nAn extremely violent and unstable actor. He joins the Black Tubes at the end of \"The Chokes\". Sammy is the rival of Montgomery Flange.\n\nAppears in \"The Fountain of Youth\". Has cursed the Blue-Skinned tribe of Xooberon for hundreds of tens of years. Being made entirely from sandpaper, he is incapable of touching or loving anything without wearing it down. Vince gives him gloves so he can \"love himself\" without being harmed. In return he gives Vince a horn that can be used to summon him. He is summoned at the end of the episode to deal with Evil Tree. Played by Julian Barratt.\n\nOne of Vince's friends; appears in the episode \"Party\". Appears regularly in background alongside Louisa Daish.\n\nAppears in \"The Nightmare of Milky Joe\". Serge is one of the coconuts that Howard and Vince imagine whilst stranded on the deserted island. He is the cameraman at Vince's Calypso Party and later, he films the death of Precious Lilywhite.\n\nAppears in \"\". Sunflash is a he she, half man-half unicorn from the future. Comes from Camden. Speaks Chavese, a mix between Chinese and Chav. Played by Noel Fielding.\n\nAppears in \"Bollo\". Guardian of the mirror world (a small room containing \"over 17 mirrors\") from which you must choose the correct mirror in order to escape. Upon choosing the wrong mirror, you are trapped forever (something which Vince sees as a positive because he can see his hair from all angles). His body consists of chamois cloths and two mirror balls. Cries \"Look at them shine\" while spraying cleaning fluid on his many mirrors. Played by Julian Barratt.\n\nA \"Voodoo shaman\" who transferred the blood of Howlin Jimmy Jefferson onto the record \"Voodoo Scat\". Tiny Robert got ball cancer but spotted it early and had it removed. Tiny Robert was one of the only characters who taught us a valuable lesson, check your balls, twice a week.\n\nLeads Spider to her town populated entirely by \"women, desperate for the men\". Played by Lucy Montgomery.\n\nThe Cheese-headed freak and former owner of the Zooniverse who appeared in \"Jungle\". Played by Rich Fulcher.\n\nMentioned in \"Electro\" but unseen. Tony is Blind, and works at the zoo. Tony won first place in the porpoise race against Howard.\n\nAppears in \"Electro\". He quits as a member of Kraftwork Orange after Vince joins and irritates him. He is first seen wearing two hats although he is next seen wearing 4 after a remark from Vince earlier in the episode. Played by Dan Clark.\n\nAppears in \"Electro\". A performer in the band Kraftwork Orange, a band that Vince and Howard join. After leaving the band she co-founds \"Orange Work-Kraft\". Played by Sue Denim.\n\nAppears in The Mighty Boosh Radio Series Episode 5 - \"Tundra\". Pedro is Howard's Spanish Uncle. He is a figure of legend in Spain as he once, according to Howard \"built a zoo as big as a house\" but he has trouble dealing with his fame and will revert to yelling curses if someone brings it up. For this reason he has become \"the Shadow\", a masked, caped bandit who is feared by the locals. As well as building the zoo,he once drank an entire litre of water in two days. He is also known by many other names, these include: \"Captain Margeret the fantastic dealer of Wounds\" and \"Fire Boy - watch him go with his legs all over\". When he meets Vince he somehow knows that Howard is having a bad time in the Arctic. He is voiced by Julian Barratt.\n\nAppear in \"Journey to the Centre of The Punk\". Vince's white blood cells attempt to stop Howard and Lester from reaching the brain, but are convinced by Howard that they are trying to help when Howard performs a crimp with them about \"the time we had those pancakes\". Despite all of them sharing Vince's likeness, one of them claims to be athlete Roger Black. Played by Noel Fielding.\n\nAppeared once in the Radio series, in episode 6 (\"The Hitcher\"). Howard and Vince are tasked with delivering Tony the Prawn (a \"psychological killer\") to Wilbur Fossil's (Bob Fossil's brother, the only character who calls Bob \"Robert\") zoo for animal offenders. After Vince and Howard are \"trapped in a box by a cockney nutjob\" (The Hitcher), Bob Fossil saves them. The people who live in the box have been trapped there for centuries, living by \"the book\", which tells them not to open the only door, for the greatest evil lies on the other side. When Bob opens the door, a garden is on the other side, with Wilbur and \"Mrs. Fossil\" (Fossil's mother). Wilbur threatened Fossil that if he was late, he would tell their mother that Fossil was still alive, and that he didn't die in Vietnam as a war hero. The episode ends with Fossil shouting \"It is the greatest evil! Everyone get back in the freakin' box!\". Wilbur is constantly referred to as \"anal\" by Bob, especially over lateness.\n\nAppear in \"Call of the Yeti\". A tribe of rare creatures who live around Piney Ridge. While normally hibernating, they come out every 25 years to look for a man to breed with. They send their victims into a hippy trance with music and are afraid of malt loaf.\n"}
{"id": "1025501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1025501", "title": "List of postal codes in Portugal", "text": "List of postal codes in Portugal\n\nThis is a list of postal codes in Portugal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPostal codes in Portugal\n\n"}
{"id": "561157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561157", "title": "List of postal codes in Russia", "text": "List of postal codes in Russia\n\nA list of postal codes in Russia.\nMoscow region, North-West and North parts of European Russia:\n\nRemainder of the wider Soviet postal zone that included also Belarus, Baltic states and a part of Ukraine:\n\nNorth Caucasus and South-West of European Russia. Included also South Caucasus republics and Eastern Ukraine in the past.\n\nVolga region and Southern Urals. Included also Central Asia in Soviet period:\n\nThe code 555 is reserved for international mail.\n\nAll regions of Asian Russia, Northern Urals and some regions along Vladimir-N. Novgorod-Kirov-Perm railway.\n\n"}
{"id": "50709233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50709233", "title": "List of tourist attractions in Ponce, Puerto Rico", "text": "List of tourist attractions in Ponce, Puerto Rico\n\nPonce, Puerto Rico's second most important city and its second largest city outside the San Juan metropolitan area, receives over 100,000 visitors annually.\n\nPonce's sights include monuments and architecture, such as its Monumento a la Abolición de la Esclavitud and Residencia Armstrong-Poventud, and charming pink marble curbs and chamfered streets corners, as well as historic houses, castles and concert halls. There are also more modern attractions such as its seafront Tablado La Guancha as well as attractions that date back over 1500 years, like the Tibes Indigenous Ceremonial Center. With its many charming attractions, the city has been called \"the most Puerto Rican city in Puerto Rico.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "639386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639386", "title": "Maghreb placename etymology", "text": "Maghreb placename etymology\n\nThe place names of the Maghreb come from a variety of origins, mostly Arabic and Berber, but including a few derived from Phoenician, Latin, and several other languages. This is well illustrated by the three largest cities of Algeria, for instance: Algiers from Arabic \"al-jazā'ir\" \"the islands\", Oran from \"wahran\" from Berber \"wa-iharan\" \"place of lions\" and Constantine (Arabic \"Qasantina\" قسنطينة) from the Latin name of the emperor Constantine. Phoenician names include Jijel, shortened from Latin \"Igilgili\", from Phoenician \"i gilgilt\" \"Island of the Skull\" (according to Lipinski), and Carthage, ultimately from Punic \"qrt-ḥdšt\" (𐤒𐤓𐤕 𐤇𐤃𐤔𐤕) \"new city.\"\n\nGiven the fact that Arabs founded very few cities in the regions they conquered, a large portion of cities in Arab countries have non-Arab etymologies. Many places, however, have had their names changed and \"Arabized.\" \nThe following toponymic elements are common in place names in the Maghreb:\n"}
{"id": "7952262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7952262", "title": "Markovia", "text": "Markovia\n\nMarkovia is a fictional nation in the , first seen in \"The Brave and the Bold\" #200 (July 1983). Markovia is a small country in Europe, ruled by the Markov family.\n\nThe capital and only major city of Markovia is Markovburg. Markovia suffered a Nazi invasion during World War II. In the same period, the commando team known as the Losers died defending Markovia from a cosmic threat. The King of Markovia had two sons, Gregor and Brion, and an illegitimate daughter, Terra. To avoid a scandal, the King quietly sent Terra to the United States. Her mother is unknown (to the readers).\n\nLater, during the time Prince Brion operates as Geo-Force, the country was invaded by the Soviet Armed Forces, in an operation overseen by the Bad Samaritan, backed up by the villains Masters of Disaster and led by Baron Bedlam. This particular invasion was beaten back with the assistance of the Outsiders, only for the country to suffer a far worse invasion years later. A vampiric invasion, led by a vampire known as Roderick, slowly takes over the country. The Queen is murdered in a method that frames Brion, and the country suffers for some time. Again, the Outsiders help repel the invaders.\n\nWhile Terra was taken in by the Teen Titans, Markovia fell into the hands of the revolutionaries and was finally absorbed into the Soviet Union.\n\nThe Outsiders are seen again helping to protect Markovia in the limited series \"Day of Judgment\". This time it is from an invasion of demons, a situation most of the world is undergoing. Other heroes stop the demons at their source.\n\nAs detailed in \"Detective Comics\" #829–830, Markovia is in a state of war with the newly formed Republic of Jalib. However, representatives do attend a Bruce Wayne-sponsored peace talk.\n\nMarkovia is often depicted as an authoritarian country with a secret police. Prior to its annexation by the Soviets, Western countries and a number of other anti-communist regimes, such as South Africa's apartheid government, had supplied the Markovian military with arms.\n\nThe Markovian language appears to be based on German.\n\nAn independent terrorist organization called 'Kobra' invades Markovia, conquering part of it. The Justice League associate called 'Katana' become involved in this incident when she tries to ally with the scientist Doctor Helga Jace. \n\nIn the \"Watchmen\" sequel \"Doomsday Clock\", Markovia and Russia are allied in what is called \"The Superman Theory\" which claims many superpowered beings are controlled by the American government. When the world starts a \"metahuman arms race\", Markovia is listed as having the Outsiders as their residential superhero team.\n\nIn the Amalgam Comics universe, Markovia was later combined with Latveria of Marvel Comics to form the nation of Latkovia.\n\n"}
{"id": "440114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440114", "title": "Mu (lost continent)", "text": "Mu (lost continent)\n\nMu is the name of a suggested lost continent whose concept and name were proposed by 19th-century traveler and writer Augustus Le Plongeon, who claimed that several ancient civilizations, such as those of Egypt and Mesoamerica, were created by refugees from Mu — which he stated was located in the Atlantic Ocean. This concept was popularized and expanded by James Churchward, who asserted that Mu was once located in the Pacific.\n\nThe existence of Mu was already being disputed in Le Plongeon's time. Currently scientists dismiss the concept of Mu (and other alleged lost continents such as Lemuria) as physically impossible, arguing that a continent can neither sink nor be destroyed in the short period of time required by this premise. Mu's existence is considered to have no factual basis.\n\nThe mythical idea of Mu first appeared in the works of Augustus Le Plongeon (1825–1908), after his investigations of the Maya ruins in Yucatán. He claimed that he had translated ancient Mayan writings which supposedly showed that the Maya civilization of the Yucatán was older than those of Greece and Egypt, and told the story of an even older continent.\n\nLe Plongeon actually got the name \"Mu\" from Charles Étienne Brasseur de Bourbourg, who in 1864 mistranslated what was then called the Troano Codex using the de Landa alphabet. Brasseur believed that a word which he read as \"Mu\" referred to a land which had been submerged by a catastrophe. Le Plongeon then identified this lost land with Atlantis, and turned it into a continent which had supposedly sunk into the Atlantic Ocean:\n\nLe Plongeon claimed that the civilization of ancient Egypt was founded by Queen Moo, a refugee from the land's demise. Other refugees supposedly fled to Central America and became the Maya.\n\nMu, as a lost Pacific Ocean continent, was later popularised by James Churchward (1851–1936) in a series of books, beginning with \"Lost Continent of Mu, the Motherland of Man\" (1926), re-edited later as \"The Lost Continent Mu\" (1931). Other popular books in the series are \"The Children of Mu\" (1931), and \"The Sacred Symbols of Mu\" (1933).\n\nChurchward claimed that \"more than fifty years ago\", while he was a soldier in India, he befriended a high-ranking temple priest who showed him a set of ancient \"sunburnt\" clay tablets, supposedly in a long lost \"Naga-Maya language\" which only two other people in India could read. Having mastered the language himself, Churchward found out that they originated from \"the place where [man] first appeared—Mu\". The 1931 edition states that \"all matter of science in this work are based on translations of two sets of ancient tablets\": the clay tablets he read in India, and a collection of 2,500 stone tablets that had been uncovered by William Niven in Mexico.\n\nChurchward gave a vivid description of Mu as the home of an advanced civilization, the Naacal, which flourished between 50,000 and 12,000 years ago, was dominated by a “white race\", and was \"superior in many respects to our own\". At the time of its demise, about 12,000 years ago, Mu had 64,000,000 inhabitants and many large cities, and colonies on the other continents.\n\nChurchward claimed that the landmass of Mu was located in the Pacific Ocean, and stretched east–west from the Marianas to Easter Island, and north–south from Hawaii to Mangaia. He claimed that according to the creation myth he read in the Indian tablets, Mu had been lifted above sea level by the expansion of underground volcanic gases. Eventually Mu \"was completely obliterated in almost a single night\": after a series of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, \"the broken land fell into that great abyss of fire\" and was covered by \"fifty millions of square miles of water.\"\n\nChurchward claimed that Mu was the common origin of the great civilizations of Egypt, Greece, Central America, India, Burma and others, including Easter Island, and was in particular the source of ancient megalithic architecture. As evidence for his claims, he pointed to symbols from throughout the world, in which he saw common themes of birds, the relation of the Earth and the sky, and especially the Sun. Churchward claims that the king of Mu was named Ra and he relates this to the Egyptian god of the sun, Ra, and the Rapa Nui word for Sun, \"ra’a\", which he incorrectly spells \"\"raa\".\" He claimed to have found symbols of the Sun in \"Egypt, Babylonia, Peru and all ancient lands and countries – it was a universal symbol.\"\n\nChurchward attributed all megalithic art in Polynesia to the people of Mu. He claimed that symbols of the sun are found \"depicted on stones of Polynesian ruins\", such as the stone hats (\"pukao\") on top of the giant \"moai\" statues of Easter Island. Citing W.J. Johnson, Churchward describes the cylindrical hats as \"spheres\" that \"seem to show red in the distance\", and asserts that they “represent the Sun as Ra.” He also incorrectly claimed that some of them are made of \"red sandstone\", which does not exist on the island. The platforms on which the statues rest (\"ahu\") are described by Churchward as being \"platform-like accumulations of cut and dressed stone\", which were supposedly left in their current positions \"awaiting shipment to some other part of the continent for the building of temples and palaces\". He also cites the pillars \"erected by the Māori of New Zealand\" as an example of this lost civilization's handiwork. In Churchward's view, the present-day Polynesians are not descendants of the dominant members of the lost civilization of Mu, responsible for these great works, but are instead descendants of survivors of the cataclysm that adopted \"the first cannibalism and savagery\" in the world.\n\nJames Bramwell and William Scott-Elliott claimed that the cataclysmic events on Mu began 800,000 years ago and went on until the last catastrophe, which occurred in precisely 9564 BC.\n\nIn the 1930s, Atatürk, founder of the Turkish Republic, was interested in Churchward's work and considered Mu as a possible location of the original homeland of the Turks.\n\nMasaaki Kimura has suggested that certain underwater features located off the coast of Yonaguni Island, Japan (popularly known as the Yonaguni Monument) are ruins of Mu (or \"ruins of the lost world of Muin\" according to CNN).\n\nModern geological knowledge rules out \"lost continents\" of any significant size. According to the theory of plate tectonics, which has been extensively confirmed since the 1970s, the Earth's crust consists of lighter \"sial\" rocks (continental crust rich in aluminium silicates) that float on heavier \"sima\" rocks (oceanic crust richer in magnesium silicates). The sial is generally absent in the ocean floor where the crust is a few kilometers thick, while the continents are huge solid blocks tens of kilometers thick. Since continents float on the sima much like icebergs float on water, a continent cannot simply \"sink\" under the ocean.\n\nIt is true that continental drift and seafloor spreading can change the shape and position of continents and occasionally break a continent into two or more pieces (as happened to Pangaea). However, these are very slow processes that occur in geological time scales (hundreds of millions of years). Over the scale of history (tens of thousands of years), the sima under the continental crust can be considered solid, and the continents are basically anchored on it. It is almost certain that the continents and ocean floors have retained their present position and shape for the whole span of human existence.\n\nThere is also no conceivable event that could have \"destroyed\" a continent, since its huge mass of sial rocks would have to end up somewhere—and there is no trace of it at the bottom of the oceans. The Pacific Ocean islands are not part of a submerged landmass but rather the tips of isolated volcanoes.\n\nThis is the case, in particular, of Easter Island, which is a recent volcanic peak surrounded by deep ocean (3,000 m deep at 30 km off the island). After visiting the island in the 1930s, Alfred Metraux observed that the \"moai\" platforms are concentrated along the current coast of the island, which implies that the island's shape has changed little since they were built. Moreover, the \"Triumphal Road\" that Pierre Loti had reported ran from the island to the submerged lands below, is actually a natural lava flow. Furthermore, while Churchward was correct in his claim that the island has no sandstone or sedimentary rocks, the point is moot because the \"pukao\" are all made of native volcanic scoria.\n\nThere is evidence that the civilizations of the Americas and the Old World developed independently of each other and, in fact, agriculture and urban societies probably first developed after the end of the Ice Age, somewhere in the Levant some 10,000 years ago and gradually spread outwards from there to the rest of the Old World. The development of the oldest known cities, such as Çatalhöyük, can more easily be attributed to local and gradual evolution than to the coming of refugees from a \"superior civilization\". \n\nEaster Island was first settled around 300 AD and the \"pukao\" on the \"moai\" are regarded as ceremonial, or traditional headdresses. There is no evidence of a highly advanced civilization on the island.\n\nOther researchers who have tried to use the de Landa alphabet have reported that it produces only gibberish. Recent research into the Mayan \"alphabet\" has shown it to not consist of letters but logograms. Recent translations of the Troano Codex have shown it to be a treatise on astrology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27514186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27514186", "title": "Oswald the Lucky Rabbit filmography", "text": "Oswald the Lucky Rabbit filmography\n\nThe following is a complete list of cartoons starring Oswald the Lucky Rabbit.\n\nWalt Disney produced 27 cartoons during 1927–1928, 25 cartoons were produced after Walt Disney's departure during the Winkler years (1928–1929), and 142 cartoons were produced by Walter Lantz during 1929–1943, making 194 cartoons in total.\n\n2013\n2014\n2016\n\nMickey Mouse (TV series)\n"}
{"id": "8596183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8596183", "title": "Patrick Maitland, 17th Earl of Lauderdale", "text": "Patrick Maitland, 17th Earl of Lauderdale\n\nPatrick Francis Maitland, 17th Earl of Lauderdale, (17 March 1911 – 2 December 2008), styled The Honourable Patrick Maitland, Master of Lauderdale from 1953 to 1968, was a Scottish Unionist politician.\n\nEducated at Lancing, West Sussex, and Brasenose College, Oxford (B.A. Hons., 1933), Maitland then entered a career in journalism. During the Second World War he served as Special Correspondent (Balkans & Danubian) for \"The Times\" 1939–1941, and in the latter year was also Special Correspondent for the \"Washington News Chronicle\". He was then War Correspondent for the \"News Chronicle\" in the Pacific, Australia, and New Zealand 1941–1943, was with the US Marines at Guadalcanal, flew as a tail gunner in a B17 and then joined the Political Intelligence Department of the Foreign Office where he ran the Yugoslav Department British Foreign Office, 1943–1945.\n\nIn 1951, he was elected a member of parliament (MP) for Lanark, after its previous MP (and future Prime Minister) Alec Douglas-Home was disqualified after succeeding to his father's peerage. Maitland held the seat until 1959 when it was taken by Labour candidate Judith Hart. From 1957 to 1959 he was Founder-Chairman of the Expanding Commonwealth Group at the House of Commons, where he was also Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Energy, and Transport.\n\nMaitland succeeded his brother, The Reverend Alfred Maitland, 16th Earl of Lauderdale in the earldom in 1968. He was also a member of the Conservative Monday Club; and was Chairman of the House of Lords Select Committee on EEC Scrutiny 1974–1979, Vice-Chairman of the Association of Conservative Peers Committee 1980–1987, Vice-Chairman and co-founder of the parliamentary group for Energy Studies 1980–1999, appointed Chairman of the 'Church in Danger' All-Party Parliamentary Group 1988. He was a Life member of the Society for Individual Freedom. At the time of his death, aged 97, he was the second oldest living former Member of Parliament, exceeded only by Bert Hazell.\n\nLauderdale's other roles included being a Director of Elf Aquitaine (UK) Holdings Ltd., Consultant in Economic Geography, an Industrial Consultant, a former editor of The Fleet Street Letter Service (an agency for political and diplomatic news), and editor of \"The Whitehall Letter\". He was a member of the College of Guardians of the National Shrine of Our Lady of Walsingham, Norfolk 1955–1982, and was President of The Church Union 1956–1961. He was a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society and a member of the Travellers Club in London and the New club in Edinburgh. He was also the Hereditary Bearer of the National Flag of Scotland, and Clan Chief of Clan Maitland\n\nHis publications include:\n\n\nOn 20 July 1936, he married Stanka (died 2003), elder daughter of Professor Milivoje Losanitch (serb. Lozanić), from Belgrade, Yugoslavia, granddaughter of Professor Sima Losanitch, chemist, president of the Serbian Royal Academy, first rector of University of Belgrade, minister of foreign affairs, ambassador of the Kingdom of Serbia in London etc., and had issue:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53696003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53696003", "title": "Philippe Cadène", "text": "Philippe Cadène\n\nPhilippe Cadène is a professor of geography at Paris Diderot University, affiliated to the Centre d'études en sciences sociales sur les mondes africains, américains et asiatiques (CESSMA). Although he is particularly known for his works on economic development in India , his research on globalization also led him to study South-East Asia and the Gulf countries.\n\nPhilippe Cadène was born in 1955 in the South of France. He studied at the University of Toulouse II-Le Mirail where he defended his Ph.D. thesis, supervised by Professor Bernard Kayser, in 1985. His initial works examined the socio-economic changes related to the urbanisation of rural areas, particularly in the periurban areas. In the early 1980's, Philippe Cadène started doing research on small and medium sized towns in India, where he highlighted the emergence of industrial districts as hubs of multiple networks built around new and ancient local communities. He has since extended his work to the cities of the Gulf countries, where he analysed the socioeconomic changes in the region. \n\nAfter concluding a series of research projects in India at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), at the Institute of Development Studies (IDS) at the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom, and at the Sudasien Institut at the University of Heidelberg in Germany, he was appointed research fellow at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS) within the Centre d'Etudes de l'Inde et de l'Asie du Sud (CEIAS) of the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales (EHESS). \n\nHis research subsequently focused on the economic and regional dynamics in India in which cities play an important role. In 1995, he got a position of professor in urban geography at the University of Paul Valéry in Montpellier. He then began his research within the Maison de la Géographie de Montpellier created by Roger Brunet and participated in the creation of the research centre ESPACE (Unité Mixte de Recherche).\n\nIn 2000, he was appointed Professor in development studies at Paris Diderot University. While continuing his research on India, his teaching and research extended beyond South Asia, in diverse Asian countries and more particularly in the Gulf countries. His publications then focused on the issues of globalisation and regional development , which he notably taught at Sciences Po Paris. He also published various textbooks and atlases for students and the general public . \n\nDuring his career, Philippe Cadène has also been professor and invited researcher in several institutes of research and teaching in Asia : the Institut Français de Pondicherry, the University of Kyoto, the University of Séoul, the University of Utara Malaysia, the University of Kebamgsaan Malaysia, and the Université of Sorbonne Abu Dhabi. He also often teaches at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai.\n\nTrained to structuralist approaches in geography and anthropology, Philippe Cadène uses systemic and interdisciplinary methodologies and emphasises on qualitative data collection and long-term fieldworks. He tries to consider the various scales in which social processes are embedded, and he mixes quantitative and qualitative data to understand the dynamics of territorial systems. He generally approaches globalisation as a multi-scale process of territorial production. He also pays particular attention to the cities and the political relations between them within increasingly large regional boundaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "22790869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22790869", "title": "Presidents of the Regional Government of Madeira", "text": "Presidents of the Regional Government of Madeira\n\nPresidents of the Regional Government of Madeira are the heads of government for the autonomous local authority of Madeira, since the Carnation Revolution that installed the democratic Third Portuguese Republic. The list below includes the leaders of the transitional regimes and those presidents designated after the institutionalization of the that provided archipelago with its laws and democratic rights.\n\nFollowing the first elections, held on 27 June 1976, the leader of the first party was installed as first President of the Regional Government of Madeira (Jaime Ornelas Camacho), responsible for forming his executive and cabinet to administer the functioning of the public service in Madeira.\n\nThe numbering reflects the uninterrupted terms in office served by each president. For example, Alberto João Jardim served for ten consecutive terms and is counted as the second president (not the seventh, eighth, ninth or tenth president): the Roman numerals refer to the legislature that their terms encompassed. Carlos Manuel de Azeredo and Joaquim Miguel Duarte Silva served as presidents of the Regional Junta, the provisional government that functioned during the transition towards democracy.\n\nThe current President of the Regional Government of Madeira is Miguel Albuquerque, whose party won the Madeira regional election, 2015 on 29 March 2015.\n\nThe colors indicate the political affiliation of each President.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33899645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33899645", "title": "Railway accidents in Tasmania", "text": "Railway accidents in Tasmania\n\nOn 22 July 1886 an express train from Launceston whilst crossing the viaduct at Bridgewater, the swing bridge opened and the engine fell into the river. The fireman and another person were supposed to have drowned.\n\n2 killed. \n\nOn 15 February 1916, seven passengers were killed and twenty nine seriously injured when the express from Launceston to Hobart, with 200 passengers on board, was derailed north of Campania, and from Hobart. The engine jumped the rails, and dragged after it the three front carriages. The carriage nearest the engine was smashed to pieces, while several others received injuries.\n\nThe accident occurred just before 4 o'clock. The train was rounding a curve, but a fairly easy one, as compared to some of the curves higher up the line. According to the statements of passengers, the speed was not very great, and no one seems to have any idea how the accident occurred.\n\nOn 1 December 1992, one person was killed.\n\nOne person killed. The freight company Pacific National has admitted that it failed to provide a safe work system when a man died at its Launceston (East Tamar maintenance depot) rail-yards. The man was killed at Pacific National's when a wagon he was inspecting was shunted from the other end and pinned him.\n\nOn 26 September 2010 a boy was killed when his all-terrain vehicle collided with a train on a private road in Tasmania's north. The teenager failed to stop at a stop sign on a private driveway and rode into the path of a train carrying cement at Spreyton, just south of Devonport. He was thrown under the train and died instantly.\n\nRestoring citations\n\n"}
{"id": "152659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152659", "title": "Ribagorça", "text": "Ribagorça\n\nRibagorça () or Ribagorza (; ) is a historical and natural region of Aragon and historical Catalonia. Located in the Pre-Pyrenees and Pyrenees area, most of its territory is mountainous. The region has been steadily losing population since mid 20th century.\n\nThe Noguera Ribagorçana river is named after this region.\n\nThe region is located south of the French border with the Pallars in the east and the Sobrarbe in the west.\nThe physiography of the Ribagorça natural region includes the Ésera, Isábena and Noguera Ribagorçana river basins with their tributaries. The region also encompasses the mountain ranges spanning the Pyrenees and Pre-Pyrenees area that surrounds the basins of these south-flowing rivers.\nThe traditional capital of the region was Benabarre (); according to the 2014 census, the municipality has a population of 1,153 inhabitants. In present times, however, the most important town of the Ribagorça is Graus with a population of 3,429 in 2014.\n\nRibagorza/Ribagorça is a comarca of present-day Aragon established in 2002. It forms the northeastern part of Huesca Province. It borders the French \"département\" of the Haute-Garonne to the north, the Aran Valley, Alta Ribagorça, Pallars Jussà, and Noguera to the east, Sobrarbe to the west, as well as Somontano de Barbastro and La Litera/La Llitera to the south. The territory of the modern Aragonese comarca was traditionally known as \"Baixa Ribagorça\" in Catalan.\n\nPresent-day Alta Ribagorça is one of the \"comarques\" of Catalonia. Its capital is Pont de Suert. Other municipalities are Vall de Boí and Vilaller.\n\nThe County of Ribagorça was a historic county with its own dynasty between 872 and 1017. It became a county of the Kingdom of Aragon from 1018 to 1322, year in which it was joined to Aragon as an appanage or estate. Ribagorça became part of the Spanish Crown in 1591 under Philip II.\n\nRibagorçan (\"ribagorzano\", \"ribagorsano\") is a transitional Aragonese and Catalan dialect spoken in the area of Aragon and Catalan Ribagorçan (\"ribagorçà\") is a Catalan dialect spoken in the Alta Ribagorça, Catalonia. Speakers of Pont de Suert use a Catalan variant transitional to Aragonese with some traits of Aranese Occitan. However, Aragonese and Catalan form a dialectal continuum in the region and it is not possible to draw the geographical limit of both languages in a clear-cut manner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2811419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2811419", "title": "Royal Governor of Chile", "text": "Royal Governor of Chile\n\nThe Royal Governor of Chile ruled over the Spanish colonial administrative district called the Captaincy General of Chile, and as a result the Royal Governor also held the title of a Captain General. There were 66 such governors or captains during the Spanish conquest and the later periods of Spanish-centered colonialism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2572330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2572330", "title": "Rude Britain", "text": "Rude Britain\n\nRude Britain (subtitled \"100 Rudest Place Names in Britain\") is a 2005 book of British place names with seemingly rude or offensive meanings. The book () is written by Rob Bailey and Ed Hurst, and published in the United Kingdom by the Pan Macmillan imprint Boxtree.\n\nEach of the 100 names chosen by the authors is accompanied by a photograph and a placename etymology. The etymologies are often due to Great Britain's history of repeated invasion, occupation, and assimilation, combined with a human predilection for \"double entendres\".\n\nEntries include North Piddle (from the Old English word \"pidele\", meaning marsh), Pratt's Bottom, Ugley, Titty Ho, and Spital-in-the-Street (a hamlet in Lincolnshire with a name based on the Middle English \"spitel\", meaning hospital).\n\n"}
{"id": "2018420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018420", "title": "Sea lane", "text": "Sea lane\n\nA sea lane, sea road or shipping lane is a regularly used route for vessels on oceans and large lakes. In the Age of Sail they were not only determined by the distribution of land masses but also the prevailing winds, whose discovery was crucial for the success of long voyages. Sea lanes are very important for trade by sea.\n\nThe establishment of the North Atlantic sea lanes was inspired by the sinking of the US mail steamer SS Arctic by collision with the French steamer \"SS Vesta\" in October 1854 which resulted in the loss of over 300 lives.\nLieutenant M. F. Maury of the US Navy first published a section titled \"Steam Lanes Across the Atlantic\" in his 1855 \"Sailing Directions\" proposing sea lanes along the 42 degree latitude. A number of international conferences and committees were held in 1866, 1872, 1887, 1889, and 1891 all of which left the designation of sea lanes to the principal trans-Atlantic steamship companies at the time; Cunard, White Star, Inman, National Line, and Guion Lines. In 1913–1914 the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea held in London again reaffirmed that the selection of routes across the Atlantic in both directions is left to the responsibility of the steamship companies.\n\nShipping lanes came to be by analysing the prevailing winds. The trade winds allowed ships to sail towards the west quickly, and that the westerlies allowed ships to travel to the east quickly. As such, the sea lanes are mostly chosen to take full advantage of these winds. Currents are also similarly followed as well, which also gives an advantage to the vessel. \n\nSome routes, such as that from Cape Town to Rio de Janeiro (passing Tristan da Cunha), weren't able to take advantage of these natural factors.\n\nMain sea lanes may also attract pirates. \"Pax Britannica\" was the period from 1815–1914 during which the British Royal Navy controlled most of the key maritime trade routes, and also suppressed piracy and the slave trade.\n\nDuring World War I, as German U-boats began hitting American and British shipping, the Allied trade vessels began to move out of the usual sea lanes to be escorted by naval ships.\n\nAlthough most ships no longer use sails (having switched them for engines), the wind still creates waves, and this can cause heeling. As such following the overall direction of the trade winds and westerlies is still very useful. However, any vessel that is not engaged in trading, or is smaller than a certain length, is best to avoid the lanes. This is not only because the slight chance of a collision with a large ship can easily cause a smaller ship to sink, but also because large vessels are much less maneuverable than smaller ships, and need much more depth. Smaller ships can thus easily take courses that are nearer to the shore. Unlike with road traffic, there is no exact \"road\" a ship must follow, so this can easily be done.\n\nShipping lanes are the busiest parts of the sea, thus being a useful place for stranded boaters whose boats are sinking or people on a liferaft to boat to, and be rescued by a passing ship.\n\nAlthough the shipping lanes are useful, they do pose threats to some people:\n\n"}
{"id": "21888586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21888586", "title": "Speculum Orbis Terrae", "text": "Speculum Orbis Terrae\n\nSpeculum Orbis Terrae (\"Mirror of the World\") was an atlas published by Cornelis de Jode in Antwerp in 1593. The atlas was largely a continuation of unfinished works of his father, Gerard de Jode, who died in 1591. Contemporary scholars consider many of de Jode's maps to be superior, both in detail and style, to those of the competing atlas of the time, \"Theatrum Orbis Terrarum\", by Ortelius. However, de Jode's atlas never sold well.\n\nAfter de Jode's death in 1600, the engraving plates were sold to J. B. Vrients (who also owned the Ortelius plates), and the complete work was not published again.\n"}
{"id": "17651752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17651752", "title": "Telephone numbers in Cuba", "text": "Telephone numbers in Cuba\n\nTelephone numbers in Cuba all have the same format, consisting of the country code (53), followed by an area code. \n\nPhone numbers in Cuba have up to eight digits. The first one to two are the area code, the remaining digits are the subscriber number. \n\nCalls between different area codes are prefixed with the trunk prefix 0, followed by the area code. \n\nThe international call prefix is 119. \n\nThe mobile numbers format is 5xxx xxxx.\n\nThe Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, operated by the United States Navy, has an unofficial area code of 99, which is only dialable from within the United States. Dialing 011 53 99 returns a second dial tone, after which the local number at the naval base can be dialed.\n\n"}
{"id": "20620374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20620374", "title": "Telephone numbers in Kazakhstan", "text": "Telephone numbers in Kazakhstan\n\nTelephone numbers in Kazakhstan are under a unified numbering plan with Russia with the country calling code +7. Historically, +7 was used as the Soviet Union country calling code. Following the break-up of the Soviet Union, all former republics except Russia and Kazakhstan switched to new country codes.\n\nAs in Russia, Kazakhstan employs a four-level (local, zone, country, international) open dialing plan. A national number consists of ten digits:\n\nThe international dialing prefix is \"8~10\" - callers dial '8', wait for a tone, and then dial '10', followed by the country code, area code and number. The long distance dialing prefix is \"8\" - callers dial '8', wait for a tone, and then dial the area code and number.\n\nUnder an agreement with Russia on 11 June 2006, Kazakhstan is assigned zone codes 6xx and 7xx (x = 0 to 9) under the unified plan. Land lines are in geographic zone codes from 710 to 729, mobiles are in zone codes 70x and 77x, and other services are in 75x and 76x. Previously, land lines used zone codes in the 3xx range. As zone codes 3xx are assigned to Russia, zone codes 3xx in Kazakhstan were changed by substituting the leading '3' with '7'.\n\n"}
{"id": "12947217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12947217", "title": "Telephone numbers in North Korea", "text": "Telephone numbers in North Korea\n\nTelephone numbers in North Korea are regulated by the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications.\n\nThis is the official list as registered with ITU-T in 2011.\n\n\nLittle is known about phone numbers in the rest of the country, as phone numbers outside Pyongyang and Rason are not able to be dialled from overseas and are hence not advertised in any overseas publications.\n\nOverseas callers to North Korea will usually need to go through the international operator service on +850 2 18111. A select few numbers (mostly fax numbers) are able to be dialled directly, without operator assistance.\n\nPhone numbers in Pyongyang which can call internationally and which can receive calls internationally always begin with 381 in the local number, e.g. +850 2 381 xxxx. These numbers cannot be dialled domestically and cannot make calls domestically, so usually an organisation with international connectivity will have a 381 international number and a 382 domestic number. For example, the British Embassy in Pyongyang can be dialled as +850 2 381 7980 internationally and 02 382 7980 domestically. 381 numbers can, however, call other 381 numbers domestically.\n\nMany North Koreans smuggle in mobile phones from China and use them near the border where they can take advantage of Chinese mobile networks that work there. The North Korean government has cracked down on illegal phones by deploying surveillance devices and jamming devices.\n\nMany lines in the Rason Special Economic Zone can also be direct-dialled from outside the country, as many foreign companies (mostly Chinese and Russian) are active in the region.\n\nCalls between North Korea and South Korea are barred, except to/from Kaesong Industrial Region.\n\n"}
{"id": "29201532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29201532", "title": "Tierra de Campos", "text": "Tierra de Campos\n\nTierra de Campos (\"Land of Fields\") is a large historical and natural region or greater comarca that straddles the provinces of León, Zamora, Valladolid and Palencia, in Castile and León, Spain. It is a vast, desolate plain with practically no relief, except for some wide undulations of the terrain.\n\nOriginally it was known as \"Gothic Plains\" (\"Campi Gothici\" or \"Campi Gothorum\"), as the area had been settled by Visigoths who fled from Aquitaine Gaul after its conquest by the Franks. It was first mentioned under this name in \"Codex Vigilanus\" \"(Codex Albeldensis)\", and described as extending \"from the river Douro, to the Christian Kingdom\".\n\nDespite the strong identity of its inhabitants, this historical region has not been able to achieve the necessary legal recognition for its administrative development. Therefore, its municipalities have resorted to organizing themselves in a mancomunidad, the only legal formula that has allowed the region to manage its public municipal resources meaningfully. Palencia is widely considered to be the capital of the Tierra de Campos.\n\n\"Tierra de Campos\" is located on a fertile, elevated plateau with an average height of around , its geography is typical of the Meseta Central. The ground is mostly made up of quite compact clay. The climate is continental with long, cold winters and short, hot summers. Rivers naturally irrigating the area are sparse and traditionally the land in Tierra de Campos has been used for dryland farming. The Channel of Castile, which cuts across this \"comarca\", was developed for transport purposes but developed into an irrigation system. Some of the wetlands in Tierra de Campos, like the Laguna de la Nava de Fuentes and the Lagunas de Villafáfila, are important for the ecology of the region.\nThere are few natural forested areas left. The Tierra de Campos is the place with the highest concentration of bustard in the Iberian Peninsula, and possibly in the world.\n\nThere is no unanimous agreement regarding the precise boundaries of the Tierra de Campos. Since it is a natural and traditional region, no official limits have ever been assigned. One of the most widely accepted system of boundaries has been the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43964291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43964291", "title": "Timeline of Gaborone", "text": "Timeline of Gaborone\n\nThe following is a of the history of the city of Gaborone, Botswana.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the Italian Wikipedia and Spanish Wikipedia\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1956024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1956024", "title": "Tri-state area", "text": "Tri-state area\n\nTri-state area is an informal term in the eastern contiguous United States for any of several regions associated with a particular town or metropolis that, with adjacent suburbs, lies across three states. Some of these involve a state boundary tripoint. Other tri-state areas have a more diffuse population that shares a connected economy and geography—especially with respect to geology, botany, or climate—such as the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut. The term \"tri-state area\" often occurs in movies and radio and television commercials.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Quincy, Evansville, and Huntington–Ashland areas are noteworthy for the states included all being separated by rivers.\n\nOf the 62 points in the United States where three and only three states meet (each of which may be associated with its own tri-state area), 34 are on dry land and 28 are in water.\n\nThe following tri-state areas are also notable, but have no tripoint:\n\n\n"}
