{"id": "34353837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34353837", "title": "A Brief History of Blasphemy", "text": "A Brief History of Blasphemy\n\nA Brief History of Blasphemy: Liberalism, Censorship and the Satanic Verses is a 1990 book by Richard Webster, in which the author discusses the controversy over Salman Rushdie's novel \"The Satanic Verses\" (1988). Webster critiques the freedom to blaspheme, and argues against \"The Crime of Blasphemy\" (which advocated the abolition of Britain's blasphemy laws \"without replacement\").\n\nWebster notes that he named the book after the fourth section of \"The Crime of Blasphemy\", a pamphlet issued by the International Committee for the Defence of Salman Rushdie and his Publishers, and that his work is influenced by Karen Armstrong's \"Holy War\" (1988) and Norman Cohn's books \"The Pursuit of the Millennium\" (1957), \"Warrant for Genocide\" (1967), and \"Europe's Inner Demons\" (1975). He also approvingly cites Muslim writer Shabbir Akhtar's \"Be Careful With Muhammad!\" (1989).\n\nWebster describes \"A Brief History of Blasphemy\" as \"an attempt to show, without ever aspiring to completeness or comprehensiveness, that the picture of blasphemy which is presented by the authors of the International Committee's document is incomplete, and in some respects, seriously misleading.\" Webster gives the controversy surrounding Monty Python's film \"The Life of Brian\" (1979), which he calls \"a rather slight production\" as a satire on religion, as an example of the way in which blasphemy has been restrained not by force of law but by internalised censorship.\n\n\"A Brief History of Blasphemy\" was first published in 1990 by The Orwell Press.\n\n\"A Brief History of Blasphemy\" was widely praised in the immediate aftermath of the controversy over \"The Satanic Verses\". Some reviewers suggested that Webster shows that liberal support for unrestricted freedom of speech is inconsistent with other liberal values, and demonstrates the religious origins of belief in freedom of expression. The book has been described as \"thoughtful\" and \"closely argued\" by the journalist Tim Radford, and \"energetic and ingenious\" by academic Lorna Sage, and Webster has been credited with explaining how \"we have internalised puritan iconoclasm to the point where we mistake it for a secular universal truth\", and with showing that the western liberal concept of \"inner conscience\" upon which the secularist arguments of \"The Crime of Blasphemy\" were founded is a secular transformation of Puritanism.\n\nCommentators have interpreted \"A Brief History of Blasphemy\" as a broadly liberal critique of liberalism, or an attempt to criticize the liberal establishment on its own terms. Webster shows, in Petersson's view, that Rushdie combines a potentially violent and offensive code with the holiest Islamic traditions, and that the language in \"The Satanic Verses\" has a charge that he was too careless with. According to Ruvani Ranashina, Webster shows that a civilised society should have constraints on the freedom to act in ways that have adverse effects on others, and that freedom without responsibility is dangerous, especially if offensive and damaging to a community. She believes his critique of the freedom to blaspheme implicitly supports the group of Muslims who unsuccessfully sought to invoke British blasphemy laws that applied only to Christianity against \"The Satanic Verses\" in 1989. Webster has been credited by the novelist J. M. Coetzee with showing that \"Rushdie has been made to stand for an entire intellectual establishment\" that compounded the outrage \"The Satanic Verses\" caused to Muslims by celebrating it. His criticism of \"The Crime of Blasphemy\" (which advocated the abolition of Britain's blasphemy laws \"without replacement\") is seen as convincing by academic Jim McGuigan. French author Patrice Dartevielle described Webster's work as \"anti-liberal\" and condemned support for \"repressive legislation\" (i.e. new or renewed blasphemy laws), while also acknowledging that Webster's concern about Muslims was \"noble\".\n\nRowan Williams, the Archbishop of Canterbury, in the James Callaghan Memorial lecture \"Religious Hatred and Religious Offence\" delivered in January 2008, called the book \"immensely intelligent\", stating that Webster shows that absolute freedom of speech is neither desirable nor possible. Williams said that Webster \"offers some extraordinary examples of 'liberal' aggression and ignorant bigotry\" during the controversy over \"The Satanic Verses\" in 1989 and 1990, and that he approved of his argument that writers and dramatists who defend the right to offend religion show a lack of imagination, in that they fail to understand the possibility that offending religion may cause real mental suffering.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34033696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34033696", "title": "Acts of Accession", "text": "Acts of Accession\n\nActs of Accession are the following treaties of the European Union:\n\n"}
{"id": "4626750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4626750", "title": "Animal law", "text": "Animal law\n\nAnimal law is a combination of statutory and case law in which the nature legal, social or biological of nonhuman animals is an important factor. Animal law encompasses companion animals, wildlife, animals used in entertainment and animals raised for food and research. The emerging field of animal law is often analogized to the environmental law movement because \"animal law faces many of the same legal and strategic challenges that environmental law faced in seeking to establish a more secure foothold in the United States and abroad\".\n\nAnimal law issues encompass a broad spectrum of approaches from philosophical explorations of the rights of animals to pragmatic discussions about the rights of those who use animals, who has standing to sue when an animal is harmed in a way that violates the law, and what constitutes legal cruelty. Animal law permeates and affects most traditional areas of the law including tort, contract, criminal and constitutional law. Examples of this intersection include:\n\n\nA growing number of state and local bar associations now have animal law committees. The Animal Legal Defense Fund was founded by attorney Joyce Tischler in 1979 as the first organization dedicated to promoting the field of animal law and using the law to protect the lives and advance the interests of animals.\n\nIn the Swiss canton of Zurich an animal lawyer, Antoine Goetschel, was employed by the canton government to represent the interests of animals in animal cruelty cases from 2007 to 31 December 2010, when the Zurich Animal Advocate position was abolished. In this capacity, Goetschel attempted to ensure that Swiss animal protection laws, which are among the strictest in the world, were correctly enforced.\n\nThe UK Centre for Animal Law (A-law) is the UK's leading animal law charity. It publishes \"The UK Journal of Animal Law\" bi-annually and has a thriving Student Group. \n\nAnimal law has been taught in at least 119 law schools in the US, including Harvard, Stanford, UCLA, Northwestern, University of Michigan, Georgetown, Duke, and Lewis & Clark and is currently taught in at least 117 schools. Animal law is also currently taught in seven law schools in Canada. In the US there are Student Animal Legal Defense Fund (SALDF) chapters in 132 law schools, with an additional seven chapters in Canada. SALDF chapters are student groups that are affiliated with the Animal Legal Defense Fund and share its mission to protect the lives and advance the interests of animals through the legal system.\n\nThe comprehensive animal law casebook is \"Animal Law: Cases and Materials\". Because animal law is not a traditional legal field, most of the book’s chapters are framed in terms of familiar subsets of law such as tort, contract, criminal and constitutional law. Each chapter sets out cases and commentary where animal law affects those broader areas.\n\nThe Animal Protection Laws of the United States of America & Canada compendium, by Stephan K. Otto, Director of Legislative Affairs for the Animal Legal Defense Fund, is a comprehensive animal protection laws collection. It contains a detailed survey of the general animal protection and related statutes for all of the states, principal districts and territories of the United States of America, and for all of Canada; along with full-text versions of each jurisdiction's laws.\n\nOne of the more comprehensive academic works on animal law is authored by Ven. Alex Bruce ('Tenpa') and titled \"Animal Law in Australia: An Integrated Approach.\" Other animal law books include: Bagaric and Akers, Humanising Animals: Civilising People, Cao, Sharman & White, Animal Law in Australia and New Zealand, Sankoff & White (eds), Animal Law in Australasia, and Caulfield, Handbook of Australian Cruelty Law\n\nAnimal law is being taught in a few European universities in Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB), in Spain, is the only European university to offer a Master’s Degree in Animal Law and Society (Derecho Animal y Sociedad). The highly interdisciplinary program, directed by Prof. Dr. Teresa Giménez-Candela, is taught in Spanish and English. It aims to provide students knowledge of animals in the fields of law, ethology, nutrition and welfare, ethical dimensions, artistic representations and entertainment, organization and social responsibility. \nThe program is based on a comparative law perspective, keeping in mind the needs of society as a whole. A postgraduate diploma is also available in that specific field.\n\nInitially, the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB, in Catalan the school is \"Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona\") Law School was the first Spanish university to officially offer optional courses in \"Animal Law and Animal Welfare Law: comparative perspective (Derecho Animal y Derecho del Bienestar Animal: perspectiva comparada)\" in 2007–2008. Due to student demand, a Postgraduate Degree in Animal Law and Society was established in 2009–2010. The first edition of the Master's program in Animal Law and Society was launched in 2011–2012 and is currently accepting students for its eighth edition (Oct. 2018– Dec. 2019). UAB also offers an online Master's in Animal Law and Society, and is currently accepting applications for its fifth edition (Jan. 2019 - Oct. 2019). \n\nAffiliated with the Master’s program in Animal Law and Society is the Derecho Animal Web Center, the first website in Spain which provides, since 2007, a database on legislation and jurisprudence regarding animals. It provides a service that is both scientific and educational. The same year was founded the Research Group ADS (Animales, Derecho y Sociedad), directed by Prof. Dr. Teresa Giménez-Candela. The international and multidisciplinary group aims to promote research in the field of Animal Law and Policy.\n\nAlthough animal law is not yet taught in French universities, the University of Limoges has been publishing a biannual Law Review especially dedicated to animal law related topics since 2009. \nThe \"Revue Semestrielle de Droit Animalier\" founded and directed by Prof. Dr. Jean-Pierre Marguénaud, relies on distinguished law professors and professionals, philosophers, and scientists who form the editorial board. Animal rights advocates and researchers are also invited to contribute on certain topics.\n\nThe University of Basel (Switzerland) in collaboration with the University of Zurich, launched in 2012 a doctoral program entitled “Law and Animals: Ethics at Crossroads”, under the supervision of Prof. Dr. Anne Peters.\n\nIn 2012, the \"Global Journal of Animal Law\" was established by Prof. Dr. Anna Birgitta Wahlberg of the Department of Law of the Åbo Akademi University, in Finland. \nThe primary objective of this online semi-annual publication is to define legal approaches to non-human animals in different legal systems and to analyze the legal status of animals within these systems. The Global Journal of Animal Law focuses on legislation, implementation, interpretation, enforcement and compliance. The first issue was published in June 2013.\n\nIn February 2013, was created the EuroGroup for Animal Law Studies (EGALS), a collaborative partnership aimed to increase the interest of the European legal community for animal law and thus to encourage and facilitate the emergence of Animal Law Studies in European universities as well as to further research in this area. The founding partners are: Prof. Dr. Teresa Giménez-Candela (Autonomous University of Barcelona), Prof. Dr. Anne Peters (University of Basel), Dr. Margot Michel (University of Zurich) and the Fondation Droit Animal, éthique et sciences (LFDA).\n\nThe 2nd Global Animal Law Conference was held on July 11 and 12, 2014 at the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB) by the Research Group ADS and the Derecho Animal Web Center, in collaboration with the Animal Legal & Historical Center (Michigan State University College of Law) and the Center for Animal Law Studies (Lewis & Clark School of Law).\n\nKIMEP University in Almaty, Kazakhstan introduced a course of Animal Law in 2013 upon initiative of Dr. Maria Baideldinova (Assistant Professor, KIMEP School of Law).\n\nRegarding the campaign to change the status of animals as property, the animal rights activists have seen success in several countries. In 1992, Switzerland amended its constitution to recognize animals as \"beings\" and not \"things\". However, in 1999, the Swiss constitution was completely rewritten. A decade later, Germany guaranteed rights to animals in a 2002 amendment to its constitution, becoming the first European Union member to do so. The German Civil Code had been amended correspondingly in 1997. In 2015 the General Assembly of the Province of Quebec adopted a modification of the Quebec Civil Code according animals the status of sentient beings instead of property, as previously. The amendment, however, has not had much impact in German legal practice yet.\n\nThe greatest success of the animal rights activists has certainly been the granting of basic rights to five great ape species in New Zealand in 1999. Their use is now forbidden in research, testing or teaching. (the UK government banned experiments on great apes in 1986.) Some other countries have also banned or severely restricted the use of non-human great apes in research.\n\nThe Seattle-based Great Ape Project (GAP) founded by Australian philosopher Peter Singer, the author of \"Animal Liberation\", widely regarded as the founding philosophical work of the animal liberation movement is campaigning for the United Nations to adopt its Declaration on Great Apes, which would see chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas and orang-utans included in a \"community of equals\" with human beings. The declaration wants to extend to the non-human apes the protection of three basic interests: the right to life, the protection of individual liberty, and the prohibition of torture. (see also great ape personhood).\n\nNew Zealand has effectively phased out live exports for slaughter purposes since 2007 due to concerns about animals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48383454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48383454", "title": "Anonymous birth", "text": "Anonymous birth\n\nAn anonymous birth is a birth where the mother gives birth to a child without disclosing her identity, or where her identity remains unregistered. In many countries, anonymous births have been legalized for centuries in order to prevent formerly frequent killings of newborn children, particularly outside of marriage.\n\nIn an anonymous birth, the mother's right of informational self-determination severely curtails the children's right to know about their biological ancestry, therefore going beyond the concept of a confidential birth, where the identity of the mother is registered but remains undisclosed, unless the grown up child requests disclosure at a later point.\n\nEarly anonymous birth legislation can be found in Sweden where the Infanticide Act of 1778 granted mothers both the right and all means to give birth to their child anonymously.\n\nIn France, the tradition of anonymous births can be traced to 1638 when Vincent de Paul who instituted the \"tour\", a form of baby hatch. During the French Revolution anonymous births were legalized in 1793, when Article 326 of the Code Civil introduced both the concepts of \"anonymous\" and \"confidential births\". The decree provided for the creation of safe spaces for women to give birth safely. In 1811 the assistance was replaced with a system of baby hatches. This however caused a surge in abandoned babies and was never fully implemented and officially abolished in 1904. Since that time all hospitals must provide wards where women can give birth anonymously. The official birth certificates in France say \"sous X\" in the place of their birth-giver. </ref> In 2002 a 'national council for access to personal origins' (CNAOP) is created to mediate between the anonymous mothers and children. The birth mother is asked to leave information about their identity behind in a sealed envelope that can be opened by the CNAOP if the child ever asks so that the birth mother can be contacted. However, the information will not be given to the child without consent.\n\nIn 2003 the European Court of Human Rights ruled in a case involving anonymous birth in Odièvre v. France. The applicant's mother had given birth anonymously; when the applicant later asked for more information, she was only given non-identifying information. The applicant appealed to the Court citing Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, stating that it was a violation to the right to a family life. The Court noted that the case could not simply be viewed as a conflict between the rights of the birth mother and the child, because it also affected the rights of the adoptive parents and any family of the birth mother. The Court ruled that, given that the recently created National Council on Access to Information about Personal Origins presented an avenue to contact the birth mother in a controlled way, the state had attempted to strike a sufficient balance between the competing rights; the application was therefore denied.\n\n"}
{"id": "3536016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3536016", "title": "Autoridade da Concorrência", "text": "Autoridade da Concorrência\n\nThe Autoridade da Concorrência is the Portuguese name for the \"Portuguese competition authority\", an organisation established to ensure fair commercial competition in Portugal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28835671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28835671", "title": "Avera and inward", "text": "Avera and inward\n\nIn medieval England, avera and inward (or inguard) were feudal obligations assessed against a royal demesne. The terms refer to various services rendered to the crown in lieu of payment in coin. \"Avera\" is connected with carrying items by horse, or possibly ploughing or both. \"Inward\" is probably the provision of a bodyguard during a royal visit: in Anglo-Saxon England it could be claimed by a sheriff. The services could usually be commuted to a monetary payment: in Hertfordshire avera could be commuted for fourpence. The services were usually found in the eastern counties, especially Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire, due from sokemen. In Hertfordshire, inward is found only in the manor of Hitchin.\n\n"}
{"id": "39758312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39758312", "title": "Betting Control and Licensing Board", "text": "Betting Control and Licensing Board\n\nBetting Control and Licensing Board governs the authorization of lotteries and prize competition as well as eradication of illegal gambling activities in Kenya. It was established through an Act of Parliament (Chapter 131 Laws of Kenya of 1966)\n\n"}
{"id": "6443048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6443048", "title": "Bill of costs", "text": "Bill of costs\n\nA bill of costs is an itemized list of expenses a prevailing party in a lawsuit or action needs to pay for services procured from a lawyer. It can have varying levels of detail, and should describe the nature of the work done by the lawyer for the client, and any other expenses incurred. Recoverable costs vary by jurisdiction, but often include copying fees, filing fees, travel expenses, court reporter fees, and electronic legal research costs.(example checklist of expenses recoverable in a bill of costs)\n\nIn some cases, particularly those in which attorney's fees are part of the relief demanded by the plaintiff, a bill of costs may be submitted to the court, in order to determine how much of the prevailing party's costs the losing party must pay.\n"}
{"id": "6600331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6600331", "title": "Chevron Phillips Chemical", "text": "Chevron Phillips Chemical\n\nChevron Phillips Chemical is a petrochemical company jointly owned by Chevron Corporation and Phillips 66. The company was formed July 1, 2000 by merging the chemicals operations of both Chevron Corporation and Phillips Petroleum Company. As equally-owned company, it is governed by a board of directors composed of two members from each of the parent companies. The company was actually named in a coin toss to determine which parent company name would be first and which would be last.\n\nChevron Phillips is headquartered in The Woodlands, Texas, a northern suburb of Houston, and is a major producer of ethylene, propylene, polyethylene, Alpha-olefins, Polyalphaolefins, aromatic compounds and a range of specialty chemicals.\n\nAs of the end of 2014 the Company has 5,000 employees worldwide, US$9 billion in assets, and 36 manufacturing and research facilities in eight countries, including the United States, Belgium, China, Colombia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, and South Korea. It has 24 facilities in 13 U.S. states.\n\nThe headquarters and offices for the Americas are in The Woodlands, Texas. Europe, Middle East, and Africa operations are based in Stockholm Building in Airport Plaza in Diegem, Belgium. Asia/Pacific operations are based in Keppel Bay Tower in Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "1048798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1048798", "title": "Civil law (legal system)", "text": "Civil law (legal system)\n\nCivil law, or civilian law, is a legal system originating in Europe, intellectualized within the framework of Roman law, the main feature of which is that its core principles are codified into a referable system which serves as the primary source of law. This can be contrasted with common law systems, the intellectual framework of which comes from judge-made decisional law, and gives precedential authority to prior court decisions, on the principle that it is unfair to treat similar facts differently on different occasions (doctrine of judicial precedent, or \"stare decisis\").\n\nHistorically, a civil law is the group of legal ideas and systems ultimately derived from the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\", but heavily overlaid by Napoleonic, Germanic, canonical, feudal, and local practices, as well as doctrinal strains such as natural law, codification, and legal positivism.\n\nConceptually, civil law proceeds from abstractions, formulates general principles, and distinguishes substantive rules from procedural rules. It holds case law secondary and subordinate to statutory law. Civil law is often paired with the inquisitorial system, but the terms are not synonymous.\n\nThere are key differences between a statute and a codal article. The most pronounced features of civil systems are their legal codes, with brief legal texts that typically avoid factually specific scenarios. The short articles in a civil law code deal in generalities and stand in contrast with statutory systems, which are often very long and very detailed.\n\nThe purpose of codification is to provide all citizens with manners and written collection of the laws which apply to them and which judges must follow. It is the most widespread system of law in the world, in force in various forms in about 150 countries. It draws heavily from Roman law, arguably the most intricate known legal system dating from before the modern era.\n\nWhere codes exist, the primary source of law is the law code, a systematic collection of interrelated articles, arranged by subject matter in some pre-specified order, that explain the principles of law, rights and entitlements, and how basic legal mechanisms work. Law codes are simply laws enacted by a legislature, even if they are in general much longer than other laws. Other major legal systems in the world include common law, Islamic law, Halakha, and canon law.\n\nCivil law countries can be divided into:\n\nThe Scandinavian systems are of a hybrid character since their background law is a mix of civil law and Scandinavian customary law and they have been partially codified. Likewise, the laws of the Channel Islands (Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, Sark) mix Norman customary law and French civil law.\n\nA prominent example of a civil-law is the Napoleonic Code (1804), named after French emperor Napoleon. The code comprises three components: \nRather than a compendium of statutes or catalog of case law, the code sets out general principles as rules of law.\n\nUnlike common law systems, civil law jurisdictions deal with case law apart from any precedent value. Civil law courts generally decide cases using codal provisions on a case-by-case basis, without reference to other (or even superior) judicial decisions. In actual practice, an increasing degree of precedent is creeping into civil law jurisprudence, and is generally seen in many nations' highest courts. While the typical French-speaking supreme court decision is short, concise and devoid of explanation or justification, in Germanic Europe, the supreme courts can and do tend to write more verbose opinions, supported by legal reasoning. A line of similar case decisions, while not precedent \"per se\", constitute \"jurisprudence constante\". While civil law jurisdictions place little reliance on court decisions, they tend to generate a phenomenal number of reported legal opinions. However, this tends to be uncontrolled, since there is no statutory requirement that any case be reported or published in a law report, except for the councils of state and constitutional courts. Except for the highest courts, all publication of legal opinions are unofficial or commercial.\n\nCivil law is sometimes referred to as neo-Roman law, Romano-Germanic law or Continental law. The expression \"civil law\" is a translation of Latin \"jus civile\", or \"citizens' law\", which was the late imperial term for its legal system, as opposed to the laws governing conquered peoples (\"jus gentium\"); hence, the Justinian Code's title \"Corpus Juris Civilis\". Civil law practitioners, however, traditionally refer to their system in a broad sense as \"jus commune\", literally \"common law\", meaning the general principles of law as opposed to laws specific to particular areas. (The use of \"common law\" for the Anglo-Saxon systems may or may not be influenced by this usage.)\n\nCivil law takes as its major inspiration classical Roman law (\"c\". AD 1–250), and in particular Justinian law (6th century AD), and further expanded and developed in the late Middle Ages under the influence of canon law. The Justinian Code's doctrines provided a sophisticated model for contracts, rules of procedure, family law, wills, and a strong monarchical constitutional system. Roman law was received differently in different countries. In some it went into force wholesale by legislative act, i.e., it became positive law, whereas in others it was diffused into society by increasingly influential legal experts and scholars.\n\nRoman law continued without interruption in the Byzantine Empire until its final fall in the 15th century. However, given the multiple incursions and occupations by Western European powers in the late medieval period, its laws became widely implemented in the West. It was first received in the Holy Roman Empire partly because it was considered imperial law, and it spread in Europe mainly because its students were the only trained lawyers. It became the basis of Scots law, though partly rivaled by received feudal Norman law. In England, it was taught academically at Oxford and Cambridge, but underlay only probate and matrimonial law insofar as both were inherited from canon law, and maritime law, adapted from \"lex mercatoria\" through the Bordeaux trade.\n\nConsequently, neither of the two waves of Roman influence completely dominated in Europe. Roman law was a secondary source that was applied only when local customs and laws were found lacking on a certain subject. However, after a time, even local law came to be interpreted and evaluated primarily on the basis of Roman law, since it was a common European legal tradition of sorts, and thereby in turn influenced the main source of law. Eventually, the work of civilian glossators and commentators led to the development of a common body of law and writing about law, a common legal language, and a common method of teaching and scholarship, all termed the \"jus commune\", or law common to Europe, which consolidated canon law and Roman law, and to some extent, feudal law.\n\nAn important common characteristic of civil law, aside from its origins in Roman law, is the comprehensive codification of received Roman law, i.e., its inclusion in civil codes. The earliest codification known is the Code of Hammurabi, written in ancient Babylon during the 18th century BC. However, this, and many of the codes that followed, were mainly lists of civil and criminal wrongs and their punishments. The codification typical of modern civilian systems did not first appear until the Justinian Code.\n\nGermanic codes appeared over the 6th and 7th centuries to clearly delineate the law in force for Germanic privileged classes versus their Roman subjects and regulate those laws according to folk-right. Under feudal law, a number of private custumals were compiled, first under the Norman empire (\"Très ancien coutumier\", 1200–1245), then elsewhere, to record the manorial – and later regional – customs, court decisions, and the legal principles underpinning them. Custumals were commissioned by lords who presided as lay judges over manorial courts in order to inform themselves about the court process. The use of custumals from influential towns soon became commonplace over large areas. In keeping with this, certain monarchs consolidated their kingdoms by attempting to compile custumals that would serve as the law of the land for their realms, as when Charles VII of France in1454 commissioned an official custumal of Crown law. Two prominent examples include the \"Coutume de Paris\" (written 1510; revised 1580), which served as the basis for the Napoleonic Code, and the \"Sachsenspiegel\" (c. 1220) of the bishoprics of Magdeburg and Halberstadt which was used in northern Germany, Poland, and the Low Countries.\n\nThe concept of codification was further developed during the 17th and 18th centuries AD, as an expression of both natural law and the ideas of the Enlightenment. The political ideals of that era was expressed by the concepts of democracy, protection of property and the rule of law. Those ideals required certainty of law, recorded, uniform law. So, the mix of Roman law and customary and local law gave way to law codification.\n\nAlso, the notion of a nation-state implied recorded law that would be applicable to that state.\n\nThere was also a reaction to law codification. The proponents of codification regarded it as conducive to certainty, unity and systematic recording of the law; whereas its opponents claimed that codification would result in the ossification of the law.\n\nIn the end, despite whatever resistance to codification, the codification of European private laws moved forward. Codifications were completed by Denmark (1687), Sweden (1734), Prussia (1794), France (1804), and Austria (1811). The French codes were imported into areas conquered by Napoleon and later adopted with modifications in Poland (Duchy of Warsaw/Congress Poland; Kodeks cywilny 1806/1825), Louisiana (1807), Canton of Vaud (Switzerland; 1819), the Netherlands (1838), Serbia (1844), Italy and Romania (1865), Portugal (1867) and Spain (1888). Germany (1900), and Switzerland (1912) adopted their own codifications. These codifications were in turn imported into colonies at one time or another by most of these countries. The Swiss version was adopted in Brazil (1916) and Turkey (1926).\n\nIn the United States, U.S. states began codification with New York's \"Field Code\" (1850), followed by California's codes (1872), and the federal revised statutes (1874) and the current United States Code (1926).\n\nIn Japan, at the beginning of the Meiji Era, European legal systems—especially the civil law of Germany and France—were the primary models for the judicial and legal systems. In China, the German Civil Code was introduced in the later years of the Qing dynasty, emulating Japan. In addition, it formed the basis of the law of the Republic of China, which remains in force in Taiwan. Furthermore, Korea, Taiwan, and Manchuria, former Japanese colonies, have been strongly influenced by the Japanese legal system.\n\nSome authors consider civil law the foundation for socialist law used in communist countries, which in this view would basically be civil law with the addition of Marxist-Leninist ideals. Even if this is so, civil law was generally the legal system in place before the rise of socialist law, and some Eastern European countries reverted to the pre-socialist civil law following the fall of socialism, while others continued using a socialist legal systems.\n\nSeveral civil-law mechanisms seem to have been borrowed from medieval Islamic Sharia and \"fiqh\". For example, the Islamic \"hawala\" (\"hundi\") underlies the \"avallo\" of Italian law and the \"aval\" of French and Spanish law.\n\nThe table below contains essential disparities (and in some cases similarities) between the world's four major legal systems.\n\nCivil law is primarily contrasted with common law, which is the legal system developed first in England, and later among English-speaking peoples of the world. Despite their differences, the two systems are quite similar from a historical point of view. Both evolved in much the same way, though at different paces. The Roman law underlying civil law developed mainly from customary law that was refined with case law and legislation. Canon law further refined court procedure. Similarly, English law developed from Anglo-Saxon customary law, Danelaw and Norman law, further refined by case law and legislation. The differences are\n\nCodification, however, is by no means a defining characteristic of a civil law system. For example, the statutes that govern the civil law systems of Sweden and other Nordic countries and the Roman-Dutch countries are not grouped into larger, expansive codes like those in French and German law.\n\nThe term \"civil law\" comes from English legal scholarship and is used in English-speaking countries to lump together all legal systems of the \"jus commune\" tradition. However, legal comparativists and economists promoting the legal origins theory prefer to subdivide civil law jurisdictions into four distinct groups:\n\nHowever, some of these legal systems are often and more correctly said to be of hybrid nature:\n\nNapoleonic to Germanistic influence: The Italian civil code of 1942 replaced the original one of 1865, introducing germanistic elements due to the geopolitical alliances of the time. This approach has been imitated by other countries, including Portugal (1966), the Netherlands (1992), Brazil (2002) and Argentina (2014). Most of them have innovations introduced by the Italian legislation, including the unification of the civil and commercial codes.\n\nGermanistic to Napoleonic influence: The Swiss civil code is considered mainly influenced by the German civil code and partly influenced by the French civil code. The civil code of the Republic of Turkey is a slightly modified version of the Swiss code, adopted in 1926 during Mustafa Kemal Atatürk's presidency as part of the government's progressive reforms and secularization.\n\nSome systems of civil law do not fit neatly into this typology, however. Polish law developed as a mixture of French and German civil law in the 19th century. After the reunification of Poland in 1918, five legal systems (French Napoleonic Code from the Duchy of Warsaw, German BGB from Western Poland, Austrian ABGB from Southern Poland, Russian law from Eastern Poland, and Hungarian law from Spisz and Orawa) were merged into one. Similarly, Dutch law, while originally codified in the Napoleonic tradition, has been heavily altered under influence from the Dutch native tradition of Roman-Dutch law (still in effect in its former colonies). Scotland's civil law tradition borrowed heavily from Roman-Dutch law. Swiss law is categorized as Germanistic, but it has been heavily influenced by the Napoleonic tradition, with some indigenous elements added in as well.\n\nLouisiana private law is primarily a Napoleonic system. Louisiana is the only U.S. state partially based on French and Spanish codes and ultimately Roman law, as opposed to English common law. In Louisiana, private law was codified into the Louisiana Civil Code. Current Louisiana law has converged considerably with American law, especially in its public law, judicial system, and adoption of the Uniform Commercial Code (except for Article 2) and certain legal devices of American common law. In fact, any innovation, whether private or public, has been decidedly common law in origin. Quebec law, whose private law is also of French civil origin, has developed along the same lines, adapting in the same way as Louisiana to the public law and judicial system of Canadian common law. By contrast, Quebec private law has innovated mainly from civil sources. To a lesser extent, other states formerly part of the Spanish Empire, such as Texas and California, have also retained aspects of Spanish civil law into their legal system, for example community property. The legal system of Puerto Rico exhibits similarities to that of Louisiana: a civil code whose interpretations rely on both the civil and common law systems. Because Puerto Rico's Civil Code is based on the Spanish Civil Code of 1889, available jurisprudence has tended to rely on common law innovations due to the code's age and in many cases, obsolete nature.\n\nSeveral Islamic countries have civil law systems that contain elements of Islamic law. As an example, the Egyptian Civil Code of 1810 that developed in the early 19th century—which remains in force in Egypt is the basis for the civil law in many countries of the Arab world where the civil law is used— is based on the Napoleonic Code, but its primary author Abd El-Razzak El-Sanhuri attempted to integrate principles and features of Islamic law in deference to the unique circumstances of Egyptian society.\n\nJapanese Civil Code was considered as a mixture of roughly 60 percent of the German civil code and roughly 30 percent of the French civil code and 8 percent of Japanese customary law and 2 percent of the English law. The code includes the doctrine of ultra vires and a precedent of Hadley v Baxendale from English common law system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31865772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31865772", "title": "Companionship Exemption", "text": "Companionship Exemption\n\nThe companionship exemption refers to federal labor regulations in the United States that exclude workers providing companionship services to the elderly or disabled from the federal minimum wage and overtime protections that apply to most other American workers.\n\nThe exemption came into existence in 1974 through an amendment to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). While the main purpose of the amendment was to expand labor protections to domestic workers, two exceptions were included: one for those serving as “casual” babysitters and another for those providing “companionship services for individuals who (because of age or infirmity) are unable to care for themselves.”\n\nThe United States Department of Labor (DOL) holds significant discretion over how the companionship exemption is interpreted and applied in the workplace. Under the DOL’s current interpretation, the companionship exemption applies to most home care workers (also known as personal care assistants), allowing their employers—unless they are in a state with regulations superseding those at the federal level—to pay below minimum wage and avoid overtime compensation.\n\nSince the companionship exemption was put in place, a variety of unsuccessful efforts have been made through legislation, court challenges, and by the DOL itself to narrow the exemption so that more home care workers become eligible for minimum wage and overtime. In 2007, the case \"Long Island Care at Home, Ltd. v. Coke\" brought the issue of the companionship exemption in front of the United States Supreme Court. In this case, home care worker Evelyn Coke claimed she was unfairly denied minimum wage and overtime pay by her employer. While the court ruled against Coke, its decision reaffirmed the DOL’s authority to change its interpretation of the exemption at any time. The New York Times has written three editorials calling for an end to the companionship exemption.\n\nThe disability community and many home care workers are concerned that the proposed changes will force seniors and people with disabilities into institutions, cut the take-home pay of attendants, reduce the available attendant workforce, force people with disabilities to cut the hours of longtime attendants and bring strangers into their homes, and devastate consumer directed services. They point out that the administration failed to adequately engage the disability community as described in Executive Order 13563. The [www.ncd.gov National Council on Disability] sent a letter urging the Obama administration to use a negotiated rule-making to address this oversight.\n\nThe Obama administration announced in December 2011 that it has proposed a regulation amending the companionship exemption. If implemented, the regulation would grant minimum wage and overtime protections to home care workers throughout the U.S.\n\nThe regulation will become a final rule following a 60-day comment period.\n\nADAPT still considers the issue unresolved. Source: http://www.adapt.org/main.2012\n\nOn September 17, 2013, the U.S. Department of Labor announced a final rule extending the Fair Labor Standards Act’s minimum wage and overtime protections to most of the nation’s workers who provide essential home care assistance to elderly people and people with illnesses, injuries or disabilities. The Obama Administration anticipated that this change would provide FLSA protections to nearly two million direct care workers—such as home health aides, personal care aides and certified nursing assistant and help guarantee that those who rely on the assistance of direct care workers have access to consistent and high-quality care from a stable and increasingly professional workforce. With an unprecedented 15 month implementation timeframe, the narrowing on the companionship exemption under FLSA, becomes effective January 1, 2015. The final rule, released October 2013, is intended to provide additional protections under FLSA for homecare workers and has been accompanied by dedicated webpages on the DOL's Wage an Hour website at www.dol.gov/whd/homecare.\n"}
{"id": "41107277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41107277", "title": "Credit agreements in South Africa", "text": "Credit agreements in South Africa\n\nCredit agreements in South Africa are agreements or contracts in South Africa in terms of which payment or repayment by one party (the debtor) to another (the creditor) is deferred. This entry discusses the core elements of credit agreements as defined in the National Credit Act, and the consequences of concluding a credit agreement in South Africa.\n\nIt is essential that the meanings of important terms used in the practice of consumer law are clearly understood. Most of the definitions below are obtained from the National Credit Act 34 of 2005 (“the Act”).\n\nAn “agreement” simply means a contract.\n\n“Credit” means a deferral or delay of payment of a sum of money to another person, or a promise to pay money.\n\nThe critical role of credit in the economy is explained in the August 2004 policy framework of the Department of Trade and Industry:\n\nCredit enables people to have use of a product or service, at a cost represented by an interest rate, prior to their having paid for that product or service or, where an item cannot be afforded from a single month’s salary, to spread payments over a number of months.\n\nThis document goes on to describe credit as a “double-edged sword,” because of the “considerable imbalance of power between consumers and credit providers,” due to poor consumer education levels and knowledge of consumer rights, and inability to enforce such rights through negotiation or legal action:\n\nCredit cannot therefore be seen as a universal basic service to which access should be extended in the same way as access to water, health care and electricity. There is a greater need to balance access to credit with protection for consumers, especially the vulnerable.\n\nA credit provider is the party who supplies goods or services (in terms of an instalment sale agreement, for example), or who pays money (in terms, for example, of a secured or unsecured money loan, overdraft facility, pawn transaction or mortgage loan). The credit provider is often also referred to as “the creditor,” in particular when steps are taken to recover amounts due from the consumer.\n\nA consumer is the party to whom goods or services are sold, or to whom money is loaned in any of the examples referred to above. When steps are taken to recover amounts due, the consumer is often referred to as “the debtor.”\n\nAn agreement is a credit agreement if it provides for a deferral or delay of payment, and if there is a fee or interest charged for the deferred payment. The Act does not require that a credit agreement be in writing and signed by both parties, although this is implied throughout the Act. A credit agreement may be a credit facility, a credit transaction or a credit guarantee (or a combination of these). These three terms are defined in section 8 of the Act.\n\nA credit facility is an agreement in terms of which a credit provider supplies goods or services, or pays an amount to the consumer. The consumer's obligation to pay the price or repay the money is deferred, in exchange for which the consumer pays interest and fees. Examples of a credit facility are credit advanced\n\n\nA “credit transaction” may refer any one of a number of different types of transactions. Most important for present purposes are the follow\n\nIn terms of instalment agreements, movable goods (like furniture, clothing or a car) are sold, the price is paid in instalments, and the item is delivered to the consumer. The consumer becomes owner only once all instalments have been paid.\n\nUnsecured money loans are usually smaller money loans (micro-loans) re-payable in instalments, where the lender is given no security for re-payment of the debt.\n\nIn terms of pawn transactions, money is lent and the borrower provides an item of property as security, the resale value of which is greater than the loan. The creditor is entitled to sell the property if the money is not repaid by an agreed date, and to keep the proceeds of the sale.\n\nMortgage agreements are money loans secured by the registration of a mortgage bond over land, the proceeds of which are usually used to buy land or housing.\n\nIn terms of secured loans, money is paid, and the credit provider receives a pledge of any movable property or something else of value as security for repayment of the loan.\n\nLeases of movable goods—that is, not land or housing—would include, for example, a telefax machine or a motor car, with rent being paid in instalments, together with fees and interest. (If interest and fees are not charged, it will not be a credit transaction in terms of the Act). The total instalments will usually amount to the value of the item let. Once all instalments are paid, ownership passes to the consumer. This is contrary to the common law of lease. If, however, the agreement provides that ownership will always remain with the lessor, it will still be a credit transaction in terms of the Act.\n\nIn terms of a credit guarantee, a third party agrees to pay to a creditor the amount due by a consumer, on demand (as, for example, in the case of suretyship, in terms of which personal security is provided for the debt of another person resulting from an overdrawn cheque account).\n\nIncidental credit agreements occur when goods or services are provided to a consumer over a period of time and a fee or interest is charged only if payment is not made by an agreed date. Examples include\n\n\nIncidental credit agreements do not fall under the definition of credit agreements in the Act. Section 5 sets out the limited provisions of the Act applicable to them.\n\nA number of other agreements are not regarded as credit agreements by the Act, including\n\n\nThe National Credit Act is a complicated and lengthy piece of legislation that tries to regulate closely every sector of the consumer credit market. The last provisions of the Act became effective on June 1, 2007. The Act repealed the Usury Act and the Credit Agreements Act, and bears very little resemblance to these Acts. It represents a clean break from the past. All consumer credit law is contained within the Act, which applies to all credit agreements and all credit providers.\n\nThe Act has the ambitious and extremely difficult objective of promoting a competitive, efficient and effective credit industry and market which is at the same time fair, transparent, responsible and accessible. The overriding theme of the Act is consumer protection. Section 3 of the Act sets out a number of methods that the Act adopts to achieve this.\n\nMuch of the responsibility for implementing the purposes of the Act lies with the National Credit Regulator (NCR), which oversees the entire consumer credit industry, including all the functions and responsibilities of the former Micro-finance Regulatory Council (in the micro-lending context). The NCR is an independent organisation governed by a Board, with a Chief Executive Officer who may appoint inspectors and investigators.\n\nThe NCR has an enormous number of responsibilities. These are set out in great detail in sections 13 to 18 of the Act. It remains to be seen whether or not it will have the necessary capacity to perform all these functions. Its responsibilities include\n\n\nThe National Consumer Tribunal is an independent body, separate from the NCR. It has jurisdiction throughout South Africa, and comprises a chairperson and at least ten other members appointed by the President. A tribunal of record, it conducts its proceedings in public in an informal, inquisitorial manner. It applies principles of natural justice, and has the function of ruling on any matter brought before it in terms of the Act. The Act provides rules of practice, procedure, evidence and a list of possible orders in relation to the Tribunal.\n\nThe powers of the Tribunal are mentioned throughout the Act, the most important of which are\n\n\nThe NCR is required to establish and maintain two important registers:\n\n\nCredit providers, credit bureaux and debt counsellors are required to register with the NCR. Before a credit provider enters into a credit agreement (threshold is R zero) it has to register with the NCR.\n\nThe NCR has the power to suspend or cancel registration in certain circumstances.\n\nAny person may access this register on the NCR website or may obtain a copy of an extract from the register on payment of a fee. Any person may also obtain a copy of a registration certificate on payment of a fee.\n\nCredit providers and credit bureaux were required to register with the NCR by July 28, 2006. Debt counsellors may register at any time.\n\nThe NCR may be required by the Minister to establish a single national register of outstanding credit agreements, but it has not done so yet. Once established, credit providers will have to submit the following information in relation to every credit agreement:\n\n\nCertain information regarding credit agreements entered into prior to the coming into effect of the Act must also be provided. This register will be accessible to any person on application in the prescribed form. It will also provide a way of monitoring South Africa's consumer debt levels, which the NCR is required to do.\n\nA credit bureau is an entity that is engaged for payment in the business of receiving reports or investigating credit applications and agreements, payment history or patterns, and other consumer credit information. Credit bureaux are also in the business of compiling and maintaining data and issuing reports concerning consumers based on this data. As indicated above, credit bureaux were required to register with the NCR by July 28, 2006. Credit bureaux assist credit providers with information that could prevent over-indebtedness of consumers and the granting of reckless credit.\n\nDebt counsellors are not defined in the Act. The NCR's “Debt Counsellor Training Program Learners’ Guide” describes the debt counsellor as “a registrant who is required to do certain tasks stipulated in the Act—including facilitating, investigating, and recommending solutions for over-indebtedness.”\n\nDebt counsellors have a number of functions which appear throughout the Act. The main role of debt counsellors is to evaluate consumers’ indebtedness (upon referral of the consumer by a court, or upon application by the consumer directly to the debt counsellor). The debt counsellor may then recommend to the court\n\n\nThis procedure is explained in more detail below.\n\nDebt counsellors must apply to the NCR to be registered as such. The Act contains a lengthy list of reasons for disqualification as a debt counsellor. In addition, the Regulations provide that debt counsellors must\n\n\nConsumer courts are tribunals established by provincial legislation. The Act allows these courts to be used in various circumstances. There is only one instance where these courts operate at the same level as the National Consumer Tribunal, which is when the NCR refers a complaint to it. Most provinces have introduced their own legislation, but only Gauteng presently has a properly-functioning consumer court.\n\nThe Act uses the gender-neutral term “ombud” (often known as ombudsman). The Act provides that certain disputes between a financial institution (like a bank) and a consumer, arising from a credit agreement, may be referred to the relevant ombud. The ombud will then act as mediator between the institution and the consumer with a complaint.\n\nBefore concluding a credit agreement, the credit provider must give to the consumer, free of charge, a statement and quotation in the form prescribed by the Regulations (Form 20 to the Regulations, in the case of small credit agreements). No agreement is entered into at this stage; the consumer does not have to sign anything or pay any fee. This is a new development in the law, designed to protect consumers. This document must contain the financial details of the proposed agreement (like the amount of credit provided, the number and amount of instalments payable, interest and other fees, deposit required and credit insurance). Consumers must accept or reject the quotation within five days, giving them a chance to shop around for better or cheaper credit. Once the consumer has accepted the quotation, the credit agreement itself can then be concluded.\n\nThe form of the document that records the credit agreement is prescribed by regulation, and varies for different-size credit agreements. The details required for a small credit agreement (a principal debt of less than R15 000) are set out in Form 20.2 to the Regulations. This is not really a form, but rather a framework for the minimum contents of the agreement. These details include\n\n\nThe credit provider must give to the consumer, free of charge, a copy of the signed credit agreement (in paper form or printable electronic form).\n\nCredit agreements may be altered only in very specific circumstances, most importantly in relation to the reduction or increase in credit limits.\n\nMany consumer rights are contained in the Act, but very few rights for credit providers. (By contrast, credit providers have many duties.) The Act is biased towards consumers, because it seeks to redress imbalances inherent in our common law. This is not unusual for legislation of this kind.\n\nEvery adult person has the right to apply for credit, but no-one has the right to be granted credit. A credit grantor may choose to refuse credit for reasonable business reasons, but may not unfairly discriminate against a consumer relative to other consumers on the grounds of race, religion, pregnancy, marital status, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, culture, language, etc. A consumer may ask for reasons for the refusal of credit, which must be given by the credit provider in writing.\n\nThe consumer has the right to be given a quotation and credit agreement in an official language that he reads or understands, to the extent that this is reasonable. Any documents where no form is prescribed must be in plain language (language which an ordinary consumer with average literacy skills and minimal credit experience will understand).\n\nCredit bureaux have an important role. For example, they provide credit providers with information on the creditworthiness of consumers. This information could, of course, be damaging to consumers. Credit bureaux are therefore obliged to check with other sources that the information given to them by credit providers is correct. Consumers have the right to have information relating to rescinded judgments expunged (removed) from the records of credit bureaux. Likewise, a consumer who has satisfied all his obligations in terms of a debt rearrangement has the right to have the fact that a debt rearrangement previously existed removed from these records.\n\nA credit provider must advise a debtor before reporting unfavourable information to a credit bureau. Any person may challenge the accuracy of any information reported to or held by a credit bureau. The credit bureau or NCR is then obliged to investigate at no charge and rectify any incorrect information.\n\nThe regulations prescribe maximum periods of time that different categories of consumer credit information may be retained by credit bureaux. For example, civil judgments may be retained for the earliest of\n\n\nAnyone has the right to a free credit bureau report once per year. After that it will cost R20 per enquiry. Two important credit bureaux, with contact numbers, are:\n• ITC — 086 148 2482 (Website: www.mycredit.co.za).\n• Experian — 086 110 5665 (Website: www.creditexpert.co.za)\n\nThe Act contains a number of rules in this regard:\n\n\nCredit bureaux are required to protect the confidentiality of consumer credit information that they hold or report on. Credit providers must also present to consumers the options of being excluded from telemarketing campaigns, marketing or customer lists sold or distributed and mass distribution of e-mail or SMS messages.\n\nIn certain circumstances, consumers may terminate agreements (in writing and properly delivered) within five business days of signing them. This cooling-off right applies only to leases and instalment agreements that are concluded at a location other than the registered business premises of the credit provider. Typically, this right will apply to credit sales on instalments (as in the cases of cars, books, household appliances) concluded at the consumer's home or place of work. The consumer must return the goods bought, and the credit provider must refund amounts paid by the consumer within seven days of termination, less the following:\n\n\nConsumers are entitled to settle their debts in advance at any time, with or without advance notice, after requesting a statement from the credit provider of the amount required to settle the account. No settlement charge is payable for small agreements; interest and other fees are payable only until date of settlement. This means that a consumer may request from the credit provider the balance due, pay the entire amount, and not be penalised for doing so.\n\nThis, however, does not apply to large agreements such as mortgage bonds. If a consumer wishes to settle a bond he must first give notice of cancellation for a period of three months to the credit provider. When a mortgage bond is cancelled, the consumer will be liable for bond cancellation costs.\n\nConsumers may prepay any amount due under a credit agreement (e.g. instalments due) and credit providers are obliged to accept such amounts, even if they are not due. Such payments are used for unpaid interest and fees first, and then to reduce the principal debt.\n\nA consumer may, at any time, return to a credit provider goods that are subject to a credit agreement, whether or not the consumer is in default. The credit provider must then sell the goods and use the proceeds to settle the account. In terms of the former Credit Agreements Act, this procedure applied only when the consumer was in default. This new provision gives the consumer an extraordinary right, enabling him to rid himself of the agreement when he chooses to.\n\nThe following procedure must be followed if the consumer elects to enforce this right:\n\n\nThe Act contains detailed provisions regarding statements of account. The Regulations prescribe the form and content of statements in the case of small agreements. Credit providers must deliver to consumers periodic statements of account, usually once a month (but once every two months for instalment sale agreements).\n\nCredit providers are also obliged to provide consumers with statements of account on request, at no charge. The consumer may choose how the statement must be delivered:\n\n\nCredit providers need not give written statements on demand more than once every three months.\n\nThese provisions are explained in detail below.\n\nIn the case of certain credit agreements (typically instalment agreements), the consumer becomes the owner only once the full purchase price has been paid, and the credit provider has a right to repossession on breach of the agreement. Until then, the credit provider has an interest in the whereabouts of the goods.\n\nThe consumer has a duty to inform the credit provider of any of the following changes:\n\n\nThe consumer must also give to the credit provider or sheriff, on request, the address where the goods are kept, and the name and address of the landlord of the premises.\n\nThe credit provider's most important rights are\n\n\nA credit provider may suspend a credit facility (like a credit card or cheque account) at any time if the consumer is in default, or otherwise close the facility on ten business days’ notice.\n\nA credit provider who has incurred costs in the attachment of goods while enforcing a debt may ask a court to order the consumer to pay the costs of attachment. The court will make such an order only if the consumer provided false information about his address or the location of the goods.\n\nEvery consumer right entails a duty on the part of credit providers. The duties on credit providers are onerous; they provide many administrative burdens. Some of the credit provider's more important duties are\n\n\nOver-indebtedness is frequently a disastrous consequence of the high cost of credit. Levenstein summarises this state of affairs:\n\nUnfortunately, in South Africa, too many people with too little money have been given too much credit. This ultimately leads to over-indebtedness which results in a never-ending circle of frustration for the consumer who can never repay his debts.\n\nThe Department of Trade and Industry's 2004 policy framework describes credit as “a double-edged sword:”\n\nWhilst credit allows access to products or services that cannot be acquired out of a single month’s income, it can also be a dangerous instrument that can lead to high levels of debt and indebtedness.\nIt is quite easy for credit to lead to financial hardship and destroy a household’s wealth. Taking on extra loans in order to pay back existing loans can lead people into a debt spiral out of which it may be difficult to escape. Over-indebtedness has a negative impact on families and has in some extreme cases even led to family suicides. Over-indebtedness further has an impact upon the workplace, can lead to de-motivation, absenteeism and even a propensity to commit theft.\n\nA Human Sciences Research Council survey on household indebtedness in South Africa showed that, in 2000, over sixty per cent of the regular disposable income of households earning less than R5,000 per year was used to service debt: that is, to pay interest on debt. Levels of indebtedness increased by more than 200 per cent between 1995 and 2000 in the poorest households, with incomes of less than R25,000 per year. This trend seems to have continued since.\n\nIt has been argued that consumers are often to blame for allowing themselves to become over-indebted by unwisely borrowing too much money, or by buying too much on credit. This is usually the result of economic desperation and lack of understanding of the difficulties of repaying or servicing their debt. Credit providers are, however, often to blame for recklessly giving too much credit to consumers who cannot afford to service their debt. One of the most important objectives of the Act is to combat over-indebtedness and reckless credit granting. Sections 78 to 88 of the Act contain detailed, far-reaching and extremely important provisions in this regard.\n\nA consumer is over-indebted if the available information indicates that the consumer is unable to pay the amounts due under a credit agreement in time. When deciding whether or not a consumer is over-indebted, a court must consider the consumer's\n\n\nIn any court proceedings, a court may declare a consumer to be over-indebted. Alternatively, a debt counsellor may have a role in one of two ways:\n\n\nA debt review must then take place. The debt counsellor must notify all credit providers and credit bureaux listed in the application; they must co-operate fully with the debt counsellor. The debt counsellor must then evaluate the consumer's indebtedness. The evaluation can have one of three possible results:\n\n\nA credit agreement may be declared to be reckless only if the consumer is found to be over- indebted. If the debt counsellor finds that the consumer is not over-indebted, but is of the view that one or more credit agreements are reckless, these agreements may not be declared to be reckless. Credit providers may therefore still enforce credit agreements that are in fact reckless, but they may not be formally declared to be reckless.\n\nWhile this process is under way, a consumer may not use his credit facility (for example, his credit card); nor may he enter into another credit agreement. A credit provider who enters into a credit agreement with a consumer while the consumer is under debt review runs the risk of the credit agreement's being declared reckless credit.\n\nAlso, if a consumer is in default under a credit agreement, and the credit provider has already commenced debt-enforcement proceedings, that agreement may not be subject to the debt review. This could encourage credit providers to start proceedings to recover debt earlier than they otherwise might have done.\n\nThe debt-review procedure might well be used by shrewd consumers to delay or avoid payment under a credit agreement. This is so because there are many provisions in the Act which limit the rights of credit providers to enforce debts under review. However, if the consumer is in default under a credit agreement subject to review, the credit provider may give notice to the consumer, the debt counsellor and the NCR to terminate the review. This notice may be given at least sixty days after the date of application for debt review: that is, if the debt-review process is dragging on too long. The credit provider may then take steps to enforce the agreement. The court then has the discretion to order that the debt review resume if appropriate. Finally, it should be noted that an application for debt review by a consumer has serious implications for the consumer as to his creditworthiness and the conclusion of future agreements.\n\nA credit provider must not enter into a reckless credit agreement with a consumer. Before entering into a credit agreement, a credit provider must first take reasonable steps to assess the consumer's\n\n\nA credit agreement is reckless\n\n\nThis provision helps to prevent credit providers from taking shortcuts by simply accepting seemingly creditworthy debtors at face value. A credit provider may use its own assessment mechanisms, provided these are fair and objective. The consumer, in turn, must fully and truthfully provide the requested information. Failure by the consumer to do so could provide the credit provider with a complete defence to an allegation of reckless credit granting.\n\nIn any proceedings that concern credit agreements, a court may declare that a credit agreement is reckless, in which case the court may make an order\n\n\nIf a court declares that a specific credit agreement is reckless, it must also decide whether or not the consumer is over-indebted at the time of the court proceedings. All the debt of the consumer must be considered. If the court finds the consumer to be over-indebted, it may make an order\n\n\nWhile an agreement is suspended (not set aside),\n\n\nAfter the period of suspension ends, all the parties’ rights and obligations are revived and become enforceable again. However, interest or fees that would normally have accrued during the period of suspension may not be charged to the consumer. This is a drastic remedy indeed.\n\nThe reckless-credit provisions do not apply to a number of credit agreements, including\n\n\nA student loan, for example, could be granted to an unemployed consumer, who might not have a credit record (so that the credit provider does not know his payment history). The consumer might not be creditworthy, and there is no security. The nature of these agreements excludes them from being reckless lending.\n\nThe negative results for credit providers of either\n\n\nare serious. Many of the provisions are designed to penalise credit providers. Credit providers will be very careful to reduce the risk of bad debt. These provisions are therefore likely to reduce over-indebtedness and reckless credit granting, at least in the formal sector. A negative result for consumers, however, could be that credit grantors will be much more reluctant to grant credit in the future, and that, therefore, fewer people will be able to access credit. Further, this could lead to an increase in the number of unregistered and illegal credit providers.\n\nIt is critical that one understand the full implications of the new cost-of-credit provisions in the\nNational Credit Act and Regulations.\n\nUntil June 1, 2007, the Usury Act (which has now been repealed by the National Credit Act) prescribed limits on the interest rates that credit providers could charge. Until this date, the maximum interest rate was twenty per cent per year on all credit agreements up to R10,000 and seventeen per cent per year on credit agreements over R10,000. However, registered micro-lenders were made exempt from the Usury Act from 1992, meaning that they were entitled to charge whatever interest rates they liked. This resulted in exorbitant interest rates, with micro-lenders charging typically thirty per cent per month (or 360 per cent per year)—eighteen times more than the limit of twenty per cent per year for other credit. Because of the enormous profits that micro-lenders could make, the industry spiralled out of control, growing rapidly year-on-year. In the three years between September 2003 and August 2006, for example, industry disbursements more than doubled. The industry grew by an average of over thirty per cent per year. For the twelve months ending August 2006, the total Rand-value of loans disbursed in the registered micro-finance sector was over R30,000,000,000.\n\nExcessive interest rates have caused terrible socio-economic hardships and suffering for low-income individuals and communities. A high percentage of personal income is used to service micro-lending debt, leaving very little of borrowers’ personal income to pay for other household expenses. Borrowers on thirty-day loans in particular are very soon caught in debt traps from which they are unable to escape. Tens of billions are lost to lower-income communities in the form of interest on micro-loans every year, contributing to the perpetuation of poverty.\n\nLevels of indebtedness are high and appear to be increasing. The problem of over-indebtedness is made worse by high levels of consumption finance and consumer ignorance and illiteracy. (32 per cent of the adult population of South Africa were functionally illiterate in 2001.) By allowing the micro-lending industry to function without legislated and enforced interest-rate limits since 1992, the Government effectively made possible the exploitation of the ignorance of lower-income communities, which arguably amounted to legislated economic abuse.\n\nThe National Credit Act prescribes limits on interest rates for all forms of credit, including micro-loans. However, the Act introduces other fees (the initiation fee and the service fee) which cause the total cost of credit to remain extremely high. No longer is it sufficient to consider only interest rates. Interest rates, initiation fees and service fees must all be carefully calculated in order to work out the total cost of credit for borrowers. The new cost-of-credit provisions came into force on June 1, 2007.\n\nDifferent interest rates apply to different categories of credit agreements:\n\n“Short-term credit transactions” are agreements up to R8,000 repayable within six months; usually these are micro-loans. The maximum interest rate permitted is five per cent per month, or sixty per cent per year.\n\n“Unsecured credit transactions” are agreements for which there is no security for the debt at all (like loans or sales on credit). There is no limit on the amount or repayment period. Unsecured agreements for more than R8,000 and/or repayable over more than six months fall into this category. The maximum interest rate is linked to the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) Repurchase Rate ((Repurchase Rate x 2.2) + 20% per year), and is currently 39,8 per cent per year (based on the current repo rate of nine per cent). This maximum rate is nearly double the maximum permissible rate in terms of the Usury Act that applied until May 31, 2007 (20 per cent per year). Sales of furniture, for example, could now cost twice as much to service.\n\nSecured bank loans, credit card or cheque accounts fall under the category “credit facility.” The maximum interest rate is also linked to the SARB Bank Repurchase Rate, and is currently 29.8 per cent per year.\n\n“Developmental credit agreements” are credit agreements entered into to develop a small business, an educational loan, or a loan for purposes of building low-cost housing. The maximum interest rate is 38.8% per year.\n\nFor mortgage bond agreements, the maximum interest rate is 24.9 per cent per year.\n\nThe initiation fee is intended to cover the costs of initiating a credit agreement, although it is not clear exactly what costs the fee is intended to cover. It is a once-off payment made by the consumer on conclusion of the credit agreement or payable in instalments (as a separate loan attracting interest).\n\nThe maximum initiation fee in terms of the Regulations is R150 per credit agreement, plus ten per cent of the amount of the agreement in excess of R1,000, but never to exceed R1,000. Also, the initiation fee may never exceed fifteen per cent of the principal debt.\n\nIt will be extremely difficult for consumers to find the necessary cash to pay the initiation fee up front at a time when they are taking out a loan precisely because they are in need of cash. Most lenders will thus be unable to afford to pay the initiation fee on taking out a loan, particularly in the case of the very poor borrowing for consumption purposes. These people will thus be forced to allow the initiation fee to be capitalised and re-paid, probably in the same number of instalments as the initial loan, and subject to the same interest rate as the initial loan. The result will be that the effective monthly cost of credit will increase.\n\nThe service fee is defined as a fee that may be charged periodically (usually monthly) by a credit provider in connection with the routine administrative cost of maintaining a credit agreement. The maximum service fee in terms of the Regulations is R50 per month, or R600 per year. The same “flat-rate” maximum service fee of R50 is applicable to all categories and sizes of credit agreements. It appears that the service fee was standardised in order to simplify the application of the Act, justifiable on the basis that every loan, no matter what its size, needs to be administered.\n\nThe smaller the loan, the more expensive will be the service fee relative to the loan. When this cost is shown as a percentage, it is clear that the service fee adds significantly to the cost of the loan, increasing rapidly with smaller and smaller loan amounts. The “flat-rate” service fee of R50 per month is exorbitant in the case of small loans of less than R1,000 and is still too high in the case of loans up to R5,000.\n\nThis result is so unfair that borrowers of very small loans (who are almost invariably from the poorest communities) will be discriminated against. The Act itself provides that the service fee must vary relative to the principal debt: that is, that it should be higher for bigger loans, and lower for smaller loans. This is not so. The Regulations should be amended to set the service fee at a percentage of the loan amount, subject to both a minimum and a maximum rand amount (as is the case for the initiation fee). Alternatively, the service fee should be scrapped on smaller credit agreements, and the maximum interest rate increased if necessary. If the service fee is not amended or scrapped, then it should be challenged in court.\n\nThe prescribed interest rates and fees are maximum amounts only. The Department of Trade and Industry hopes that the credit industry will not “jump to the maximum rates”, and has said that it has the power to adjust these rates quickly if necessary.\n\nThe micro-lending industry in particular was born and grew on the strength of exorbitant interest rates, and many micro-lenders will struggle to stay in business with the new limits in place. It is therefore very likely that most lenders will charge the maximum rates of interest and fees to keep their profits as high as possible. Bigger lenders such as banks, on the other hand, are able to afford to be competitive, and are likely to charge lower rates.\n\nThe drastic reduction in interest rates has the effect of masking or obscuring the true total cost of credit when the initiation and service fees are added. It is possible that these fees could to a large extent remain hidden, with the emphasis being placed on interest rates (which are more familiar to consumers) when products are marketed. The fees help to keep interest rates lower, which makes credit look cheaper, when in fact credit may not be cheaper. The skewing of credit costs away from interest and towards fees (which are not familiar to consumers) will increase the chances of consumers’ being misled as to the actual cost of credit. Many will be lured into borrowing money which will cost much more than they had initially expected. It is essential that paralegals understand the danger of this masking of the true cost of credit, in order to be able to warn their clients of this danger.\n\nThe new credit limits have a negative impact on smaller loans. The smaller the loan, the more expensive it is. A one-month loan of R500 will cost about the same as the typical thirty per cent per month charged prior to the Act. Smaller loans will be even more expensive than that. A R200 loan will cost 46 per cent per month (552 per cent per year), which is more than nine times the maximum interest of five per cent per month.\n\nThe positive impact of capped interest rates, furthermore, is negated by the high maximum initiation and service fees.\n\nThe impact of the initiation and service fees on smaller loans amounts to a skewing of the cost of credit away from interest and towards these fees, so that interest decreases relative to these fees. This skewing has the dangerous effect of masking the true cost of credit from the consumer, and of misleading the consumer.\n\nA more equitable result could be achieved by removing or reducing the initiation and service fees, reducing the maximum permissible interest rate, and reducing the maximum size amount of short-term credit transactions. This will require amendments to the Regulations.\n\nThe new structure for costing of credit will work best for the biggest credit advances, in excess of R8,000. The cost of credit on agreements of less than R1,000 is comparable with the typical thirty per cent per month charged with no interest limits on small loans, The vast majority of borrowers of micro-loans are from low-income groups. The poorest households carry the greatest debt-servicing burden. Low-income individuals and communities who borrow small amounts are therefore likely to continue to suffer the same devastating socio-economic hardships referred to above, contributing to the perpetuation of poverty.\n\nBorrowers of one-month loans are most vulnerable, since these loans are much more expensive than other short-term loans. Low-income borrowers are usually unable to afford to pay back these loans at the end of the month; repeated loans have often to be taken out to fund in full the re-payment of previous loans. Borrowers are caught in debt spirals and subsequent debt traps, with the disastrous consequence that borrowers in effect remain permanently indebted.\n\nThe National Credit Act has made great strides towards consumer protection, and the new limits on interest rates will provide welcome relief for many borrowers. The combined effect of interest, the initiation fee and the service fee will, however, cause the cost of credit on small loans to remain exorbitant. This will have a devastating negative impact on poorer individuals and communities.\n\nThe Act provides only a relatively short list of offences that attract criminal penalties. By contrast, the Usury Act provided that any person who contravenes any provision of the Act commits an offence. Thus, for example, it was a criminal offence to charge interest higher than the Usury Act maximum, which is no longer the case.\n\nHowever, the Act does provide a number of civil legal remedies for consumers, some of which are drastic departures from previous law. The most important of these remedies are outlined below.\n\nSection 89 lists a number of credit agreements that are unlawful, including\n\n\nIf a credit agreement is found to be unlawful, a court must order\n\n\nThe credit provider will not get back the money lent or property sold, and the court does not have a discretion to order this. This is a drastic remedy and a departure from the common law. It was not previously available in the case of unregistered micro-lenders, and is a significant new remedy readily available to consumers.\n\nThus, for example, a court will be able to declare a loan from an unregistered micro-lender to be void (if the Act requires the micro-lender to be registered), and order the micro-lender to refund all instalments paid, with interest. Furthermore, the court must order that the loan amount paid to the consumer be retained by the borrower or forfeited to the State. The amount loaned is therefore lost to the unregistered micro-lender altogether.\n\nSection 90 lists numerous provisions of credit agreements (as opposed to the entire agreements) that are unlawful and not permitted. They are too many to list here. The list is broadly-worded and far-reaching; many of the provisions will probably be open to a wide range of interpretations, which is likely to lead to uncertainty. For example, a provision is unlawful if its general purpose or effect is to defeat the purposes or policies of the Act, or to “deceive” the consumer. Further, a provision is unlawful\n\n\nAn unlawful provision is void. Whenever a court has a matter before it which concerns a credit agreement that contains an unlawful provision, the court may\n\n\nThe consumer alleging the unlawful provision is entitled to apply to court for orders in these terms.\n\nThus, for example, if a credit agreement for the sale of furniture provides for interest or fees in excess of the maximum amounts permissible, a court must declare the offending provisions to be void and enforce the remainder of the agreement. However, it seems that the court may be able to declare the entire agreement void, order the furniture shop to refund all amounts paid, and order that the furniture sold be retained by the borrower or forfeited to the State.\n\nThe Act has codified the in duplum rule for the first time in South Africa's legislative history, and extended the rule further to include all credit costs. This rule states that, while a consumer is in default, all credit costs will stop being added to the debt when their total equals the unpaid balance of the principal debt. It is likely that increased use will be made of the rule since it has been legislated. It must be remembered, however, that it will apply only when the consumer is in default.\n\nOther legal remedies for consumers already discussed above include\n\n\nIf the Act has been contravened, a person has one of two options:\n\n\nThe Act contains detailed provisions regarding the role of the NCR. Complaints to the NCR must be lodged by completing and submitting to the NCR Form 29 to the Regulations. The NCR may resolve complaints lodged with it; the resolution may become a consent order by a court or the Tribunal. The NCR may also refer the dispute to a debt counsellor, an ombud with jurisdiction or a consumer court. After investigating the matter, the NCR may refer the matter to a provincial consumer court or the Tribunal for an order allowed by the Act.\n\nAlternatively, disputes may be referred for resolution directly to the relevant ombud if the credit provider is a financial institution (like a bank), to a consumer court or to an alternative dispute resolution agent. With the consent of the parties, the resolution may be recorded in writing and made an order of court or the Tribunal.\n\nIn his book \"The National Credit Act Explained\", Otto concludes,\n\nAll in all, the muscle of the National Credit Regulator, the far-reaching powers of the National Consumer Tribunal and the courts, the almost paternalistic protective inclination of the legislature, and the extensive network of dispute-solving account for consumer legislation that is going to have a huge impact on the enormous credit industry in South Africa.\n\nThe Act limits the credit provider's common-law rights to enforce debt: that is, to claim what is due in terms of the credit agreement. This is in line with international consumer legislation, but the Act's provisions have been criticised as being unusually cumbersome and detrimental to credit providers.\n\nIf a consumer is in default, the credit provider must notify the consumer of his default in writing. This is effectively a letter of demand. The notice must do more, however: The credit provider must propose to the consumer that the consumer refer the credit agreement to, among others, a debt counsellor to resolve the dispute or agree on a plan to get payments up to date.\n\nAs regards the method of delivery of the written default notice, the consumer may choose to be informed in one or more of these ways:\n\n\nMust the default notice actually reach the consumer to be effective? The Constitutional Court held in Sebola v Standard Bank that the Act, although it gives no clear meaning to “deliver,” requires that the credit provider, in seeking to enforce a credit agreement, must aver and prove that the notice was delivered to the consumer. Where the credit provider posts the notice, proof of registered despatch to the address of the consumer, together with proof that the notice reached the appropriate post office for delivery to the consumer, will constitute sufficient proof of delivery (in the absence of contrary indication).\n\nA credit provider may go to court to enforce a credit agreement only if\n\n\nThe twenty days and ten days referred to above may run concurrently: that is, the ten-day period may occur during the 20-day period.\n\nWhere a case has been referred to the National Consumer Tribunal, debt counsellor, ombud, alternative-dispute-resolution agent or consumer court, or the credit agreement is subject to a debt review, the court will adjourn the case.\n\nA much larger number of requests for default judgment on credit agreements now have to be referred to a magistrate, rather than being dealt with by the clerk of the court. This will greatly increase the workload of the magistrates, and could cause debt enforcement procedures to take much longer, resulting in frustration for credit providers.\n\nIf a credit provider properly cancels a credit agreement, the court may order the attachment of the goods, allowing for the sale of the goods to settle the account. This procedure follows the usual common law.\n\nIf the proceeds of the sale are not sufficient to settle the account, the credit provider may approach the court for an order to recover the outstanding balance. This applies in the case of the instalment agreement, secured loan or lease. Strangely absent from this list is the mortgage agreement. This implies that the mortgagee (a bank, usually) will be able to rely only on the proceeds of the sale of the property to settle the account—even if this is insufficient, and even if the mortgagor (the debtor) is very wealthy and has other assets that could be attached.\n\nCommon practice is that a credit provider asks the court for an “interim attachment order,” pending cancellation of the agreement, in order to protect goods at risk (like a motor car) from deterioration or damage. This order will allow the sheriff to attach the goods for safekeeping until such time as the court action is finalised, which can take a long time. It is not clear from the Act whether or not credit providers will still be able to obtain interim attachment orders. The past practice of obtaining such orders may well continue.\n\nAt any time before cancellation, a consumer may reinstate a credit agreement that is in default by paying all amounts overdue, plus default charges and the costs of enforcing the debt to date. The consumer may then repossess property attached, but not if the goods have already been sold.\n\nThe consumer may choose at any time to surrender the goods that are subject to the credit agreement, whether or not the consumer is in default. This provision is discussed in detail above.\n\nA credit provider may not use an identity document, credit or debit card, access card or PIN to enforce a credit agreement or collect on the agreement. A contravention of this provision is a criminal offence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18863227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18863227", "title": "Dextra Bank &amp; Trust Co Ltd v Bank of Jamaica", "text": "Dextra Bank &amp; Trust Co Ltd v Bank of Jamaica\n\nDextra drew a cheque for $2,999,000 from its bankers to lend to the Bank of Jamaica. Its agents told Dextra the money was for a loan. The Bank of Jamaica was told the money was for foreign currency purchased by its agents. They gave the money to the agents, but the agents were fraudsters. Dextra wanted restitution.\n\nThe Privy Council held that the claim failed, first because Dextra had made no relevant mistake of fact, and second because the Bank of Jamaica had changed its position. On the question of the change of position defence, Dextra argued that the Bank of Jamaica were relatively at fault, and therefore their defence should fail. Lord Bingham and Lord Goff said in the course of their advice,\n\nThe decision in \"Dextra\" has been broadly accepted by academic lawyers, although it has been pointed out that the difference between a \"misprediction\" and a \"mistake of fact\" is a very narrow one. In the court held that where the claimant paid drachmas into an account under the mistaken belief that the drachmas would be converted into US dollars, that was a mistake of fact which could found a restitutionary claim.\n\n"}
{"id": "25168312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25168312", "title": "Digital Economy Act 2010", "text": "Digital Economy Act 2010\n\nThe Digital Economy Act 2010 (c. 24) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The act addresses media policy issues related to digital media, including copyright infringement, Internet domain names, Channel 4 media content, local radio and video games. Introduced to Parliament by Lord Mandelson on 20 November 2009, it received Royal Assent on 8 April 2010. It came into force two months later, with some exceptions: several sections - 5, 6, 7, 15, 16(1)and 30 to 32 - came into force immediately, whilst others required a statutory instrument before they would come into force. However some provisions have never come into force since the required statutory instruments were never passed by Parliament and considered to be \"shelved\" by 2014, and other sections were repealed.\n\nSections 3 to 16 contained copyright infringement provisions, which were controversial. These provisions established a \"code\" to be created which would define a system of procedures covering notifications to Internet Service Providers to notify their customers when an allegation was made of downloading copyright-infringing content online, subscriber appeals, conditions under which subscribers could be identified to third parties, and conditions for disconnecting persistent infringers. The objective was to provide evidence that copyright holders could use in court action against subscribers who repeatedly infringed. A second element of the provisions comprises the ‘technical measures’, where a sanction would be applied directly via a subscriber's Internet provider.\n\nUnder DEA Section 3 the allegations were to be transmitted to the Internet Service Providers (ISPs) by the copyright holders. The ISPs would then be obliged to transmit notifications to their subscribers, informing them of the allegation. DEA Section 4 mandated the ISPs to keep a list of repeat offenders (a \"copyright infringement list\" ) who had reached a pre-determined threshold in terms of the number of infringements committed, and the data should be anonymous. The aim is that copyright holders could later seek a court order to identify subscribers against whom they want to take action.\n\nThe Act provided for this in the form of an Enabling Act, which required Ofcom (the communications regulator for the UK) to produce a draft Code that would then be passed by Parliament and come into force as a Statutory Instrument. However, by 2013, when the draft code was produced, the political climate had changed and a substantial controversy existed over the practicalities of the proposed Code. The draft code to create the Code was never passed into law or pursued after that date, and was \"shelved\" by 2014.\n\nThe Code had comprised the following components:\n\nThe act does not specify the implementation detail for the measures. Instead, provides for the implementation to be drafted by Ofcom, in an Initial Obligations Code. Section 5 and Section 6 establish the process for Ofcom to write the code. Section 7 establishes in a very broad way what the code should contain, but leaves all the detail for Ofcom. The code must be approved by Parliament under the annulment procedure before it can come into force.\n\nThe decision to use the code of practice instead of specifying the measures in full within the text of the act has itself formed part of the controversy surrounding the measures. For example, the act did not specify the standard of evidence required. It also did not specify the threshold - number of infringements - for entry onto the copyright infringement list.\n\nOn 28 May 2010 Ofcom published a draft initial obligations code for consultation. In June 2012, it issued a second consultation document \n\nAfter the Initial Obligations Code has been in force for one year, the act provides for a second set of measures to be brought in. The technical measures specified in the act Section 9 are the restriction or limitation of the speed of the broadband connection, restricting access to particular material online, and suspension (disconnection) of the service. The most controversial of them however, was disconnection of the subscriber for a period of time. It would function as an alternative to taking people to court, and in effect an extrajudicial process. \nTechnical measures are to be brought in under another code, known as the code about obligations to limit Internet access Section 11 and Section 12. This Code would be subject to the super-affirmative procedure in the British Parliament.\n\nSection 13 of the act requires the provision of an independent appeals process, so that subscribers who wish to do so, may challenge a notification or (when implemented) a technical measure. Ofcom is required to set up an appeals body. This body will be an administrative body, independent of copyright holders and ISPs. Cases will not be heard in person. If technical measures are implemented, there will be a right to appeal to a First Tier Tribunal.\n\nThe act amends the Communications Act 2003. In this context, it places obligations on the ISP to apply both of the codes, and it gives Ofcom the responsibility of enforcing those obligations. Ofcom has the power to fine the ISPs up to £250,000 if they fail to meet those obligations. Section 14\n\nThe act also provides for the cost allocation to be determined by a further statutory instrument. Section 15. To date, two draft statutory instruments have been laid before Parliament but neither has been passed into law.\n\nSection 17 and 18 would have allowed copyright holders to apply to a court to obtain website blocking injunctions where \"a substantial amount of material has been, is being or is likely to be made available in infringement of copyright\", or where a location \"facilitates\" such behaviour.\nIn deciding whether to grant an injunction, the court would have been required to consider:\n\nSections 17 and 18 would have had to be brought into force by a statutory instrument. However, following a review by Ofcom, they were repealed on the basis that copyright holders already had the ability to use Section 97 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act to take court action against websites.\n\nOther provisions in the act include \n\n\nThe Digital Economy Act followed the Digital Britain report of 2009, a policy document which outlined the United Kingdom Government's strategic vision for its digital economy. Lord Carter, Digital Britain minister, spent eight months considering the matter before releasing his final report in June 2009. The Digital Economy Bill was announced in the Queen's Speech on 18 November 2009 to the United Kingdom parliament. The bill went through three readings in the House of Lords, before being presented to the House of Commons for its first reading on 16 March 2010.\n\nThe general election was called on 6 April 2010, which meant that the Digital Economy Act was running out of Parliamentary time, as Parliament was dissolved on 8 April. The Digital Economy Bill went into what is called wash-up. The wash-up is an accelerated parliamentary process used after general elections have been called to rush unopposed legislation through parliament before dissolution. This meant it was not debated at length in the Commons. In return for supporting the Digital Economy Bill in the final wash-up vote the Conservatives demanded the removal of Clause 43 which related to orphan works, copyrighted works for which the copyright owner cannot be located, which had been criticised by photographers. Other clauses that were removed during wash-up included provisions for the funding of regional news consortia. The bill received its second reading in the House of Commons on 6 April 2010.\n\nThere was support for the bill from both the governing Labour party and the opposition Conservatives. It passed third reading on 7 April, with Royal Assent granted on 8 April. The Act is in force, however the requirements for the sections relating to online piracy (ss.3-18) to have legal effect were never implemented.\n\nAspects of the proposed Act which were strongly criticised included:\n\nThere was also a high level of public activism and protest against the Act, in many forms. The Guardian reported that hundreds were expected to march outside the House of Commons on 24 March 2010. Moreover, an estimated 12,000 people sent emails to their MPs, through the citizen advocacy organization 38 degrees. 38 degrees objected to the speed with which the bill was rushed through parliament, without proper debate, due to the imminent dissolution of parliament prior to a general election. In October 2009 TalkTalk launched its Don't Disconnect Us campaign asking people to sign a petition against the proposal to cut off the internet connections of those accused of unauthorized file sharing. By November 2009 the petition had almost 17,000 signatories and by December had reached over 30,000. The Pirate Party in the UK called for non-commercial file sharing to be legalized. Formed in 2009 and intending to enter candidates in the 2010 UK general election, the Pirate Party advocates reform to copyright and patent laws and a reduction in government surveillance.\n\nThe provisions relating to copyright infringement and especially technical measures were highly controversial and were criticised by digital rights campaigners. The Open Rights Group, a privacy and digital rights organisation, took their concerns to the House of Lords. Concerns were raised about the impact on businesses offering Internet access to their customers, such as libraries and universities. Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, called the bill \"an utter disgrace. This is an attack on everyone's right to communicate, work and gain an education\". He said that \"politicians have shown themselves to be incompetent and completely out of touch with an entire generation's values\".\n\n38 Degrees, who worked with the Open Rights Group to mobilise opposition to the Act, state that over 22,000 people have emailed their MPs through their web site. 38 Degrees have also raised over £20,000 in donations to fund newspaper advertisements against the bill. More than 35,000 people signed a Number 10 petition, started by Andrew Heaney at ISP TalkTalk, objecting to being disconnected without fair trial. Over 100 people protested outside Parliament on 24 March 2010, including Labour MPs Tom Watson and John Grogan, Liberal Democrat prospective parliamentary candidate Bridget Fox, and writer and activist Cory Doctorow.\n\nTalkTalk, Britain's second-largest ISP, has been a vociferous critic of the act. They opposed it from its earliest stages by staging media events, declaring that they would fight against the new laws in court, and commissioning research to demonstrate that music fans would simply transition to other, non-P2P tools (such as \"applications which scan thousands of internet radio stations and download the desired tracks\"). TalkTalk have also argued that the requirement in Ofcom's draft code of conduct that only ISPs with 400,000 customers or more would initially be subject to the Act \"could [lead to] huge swathes of customers moving to smaller ISPs to avoid detection\". BT said that they felt compelled to act \"for our customers who otherwise run the risk of being treated unfairly\".\n\nThe Pirate Party UK were strongly opposed to it. The Green Party, whose Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) sit with the two Swedish Pirate Party MEPs in the same group, opposed the bill. \"The Digital Economy Bill is deeply flawed and illiberal...Any Green MPs will provide a rallying point for opposition to the Digital Economy Bill.\" The Liberal Democrats opposed the parts that relate to the blocking of people's Internet connections. These parts were later dropped by the Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government (see below).\n\nThe Secretary of State Lord Mandelson was widely believed to be responsible for the copyright infringement provisions that would see the disconnection of internet subscribers.In August 2009 Lord Mandelson was accused of caving in to a \"big lobbying operation\" after ordering for disconnection to be included in the Digital Economy Bill even though the Digital Britain report had rejected this type of punishment.\n\"The Independent\" reported that according their Whitehall sources Lord Mandelson was persuaded that tough law were needed to reduce online copyright infringement following an intensive lobbying campaign by influential people in the music and film industry.\n\nIt was also reported that there had been a meeting with DreamWorks co-founder David Geffen at the Rothschild family villa on the Greek island of Corfu. Lord Mandelson's spokesperson claimed that there had been no discussion of internet piracy during the Corfu dinner and suggested that the decision to reverse Lord Carter's findings had been taken in late July before the trip. \"The Times\" reported after the Corfu meeting that an unnamed Whitehall source had confirmed that before this trip, Mandelson had shown little personal interest in the Digital Britain agenda, which has been ongoing for several years. According to \"The Times\", Mandelson returned from holiday and effectively issued an edict that the regulation needs to be tougher. At the time Mandelson denied that the two events were linked.\n\nIn August 2011 a Freedom of Information (FOI) request showed that Lord Mandelson had decided to approve the inclusion of technical measures, such as the disconnection of internet access, some time before public consultation had finished. Letters from Lord Mandelson's office document talks with Lucian Grainge, CEO of Universal Music Group on 2 July 2009, and that on the following day Lord Mandelson advised Lord Carter about the \"possibility of [the Secretary of State] having a power to direct Ofcom to go directly to introduce technical measures\". The government made an announcement that disconnection, was being considered for inclusion in the Digital Economy Bill on 25 August 2009.\n\nThe Design and Artists Copyright Society and the British Association of Picture Libraries and Agencies support the orphan works provision. The Community Media Association supports the Act for the radio clauses stated to bring significant benefits to the community broadcasting sector as FM spectrum becomes available following digital radio switchover. Attitudes of Internet Service Providers (ISPs) towards the copyright infringement provisions in the bill were mixed. In interviews with ISPs by TechRadar, Virgin Media said that they shared the commitment to address copyright infringement, but that persuasion not coercion is the key; a heavy-handed, punitive regime would simply alienate Internet users. Sky, which is both an ISP and a content provider, was supportive of the government's commitment to underpin the fight against illegal file sharing through legislation, but not directly of the \"website banning\" proposal.\n\nFollowing calls by citizens to repeal all or part of the Digital Economy Act on the \"Your Freedom\" website, the government asked Ofcom in February 2011 to review whether sections 17 and 18 of the act on website blocking are technically workable.\n\nFollowing the review by Ofcom, the government announced on 3 August 2011, that sections 17 and 18 of the act were to be dropped as they were not practically enforceable, and also as the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 had been successfully used to block access to a website on the grounds of copyright infringement.\n\nIn response to a Freedom of Information (FOI) request Ofcom disclosed that it had spent £1.8 million in the 2011/12 financial year on the implementation of the online copyright infringement provisions, section 3 to 16 of the Digital Economy Act, and the site blocking provisions, section 17 and 18. Ofcom planned to spend another £4.0 million in 2012/13. These figures include £100,000 spent on reviewing the technical workability of section 17 and 18, a review commissioned by the Government in February 2011. According to Ofcom the Digital Economy Act provides that internet service providers and copyright owners bear the cost of section 3 to 16, including the cost to Ofcom and an appeals body. They are also liable to pay Ofcom's cost incurred prior to actual implementation. However, Ofcom notes that the April 2011 ruling by the High Court on the judicial review of the online copyright infringement provisions provides that internet service providers are not liable to pay towards Ofcom' cost or that of an appeals body.\n\nOn 8 July 2010 TalkTalk were joined by BT, Britain's biggest ISP, in seeking a judicial review of the Act on the grounds of it receiving \"insufficient scrutiny\" and having the potential to \"harm citizens and impact both businesses\". They questioned whether the provisions were proportionate, respected privacy law, complied with EU law on ISP liability, and suggested that they would hinder a single European market in telecommunications services.\n\nThe High Court of Justice granted the review permission on 10 November 2010. Mr Justice Kenneth Parker ruled in favour of the government on 20 April 2011. BT and TalkTalk appealed the ruling, however their appeal was dismissed \n\nOn 10 November 2010, the same day as the judicial review, the Culture, Media and Sport Committee of Parliament announced an inquiry into the act. The inquiry will consider \"the implementation, practicality and likely effectiveness of the relevant measures contained in the act\", and \"the scope for additional and new approaches to ensure that original work is appropriately rewarded in online\".\n\nThis legislation was updated by the Digital Economy Act 2017, which updates the anti-infringement provisions of existing laws, creates or updates criminal copyright breach provisions, and provides for a wider range of sentencing for criminal infringement.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11800908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11800908", "title": "Document dump", "text": "Document dump\n\nA document dump is the act of responding to an adversary's request for information by presenting the adversary with a large quantity of data that is transferred in a manner that indicates unfriendliness, hostility, or a legal conflict between the transmitter and the receiver of the information. The shipment of \"dumped\" documents is unsorted, or contains a large quantity of information that is extraneous to the issue under inquiry, or is presented in an untimely manner, or some combination of these three characteristics. The phrase is often used by lawyers, but is in increasing use in the blogosphere. It is often seen as part of the characteristic behavior of an entity that is engaging in an ongoing pattern of activities intended to cover up unethical or criminal conduct.\n\nAs one facet of the dismissal of U.S. attorneys controversy in 2007, relevant committees of both houses of the United States Congress, controlled by the Democratic Party, requested, and then subpoenaed, backstory information from the United States Department of Justice on how the process that resulted in these dismissals had taken place. The Justice Department was reluctant to respond in a friendly manner to these requests, which they regarded as hostile; the Department responded with significant quantities of unsorted and extraneous information. Many U.S. liberals saw this response as a series of document dumps and communicated amongst themselves accordingly:\n\nA big new bundle of documents just got dumped by the Department of Justice. Here's a link to the documents in PDF form at the House Judiciary Committee website. As per our routine in recent document dumps, if you'd like to help us cull through the mails and reports, use this thread to share your findings with us and other TPMm Readers. Identify the items you find by document dump set number and page number. (Josh Marshall, April 27, 2007).\n\nThe practice has seen use by both sides of the political spectrum. Conservatives accused members of the Clinton Administration of document dumps during the investigation of the 1996 United States campaign finance controversy. One such dump included, among other things, 1,000 sheets of blank paper, 35 copies of the résumé of Charlie Trie, and a copy of the menu from his restaurant in Little Rock, Arkansas.\n\nDocument dumps are not restricted to the field of politics. Large organizations of all types have become adept at overwhelming news organizations and other entities requesting information under state and federal freedom of information and open records laws. In a 2011 example, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill responded to an appeals court order to release certain records related to 11 specific athletes with a document dump of thousands of pages of phone records and parking tickets. The court's order was related to a media request under North Carolina open records law related to an ongoing NCAA investigation of the UNC football program.\nAn underlying principle of information theory is that information must be comprehensible in order to be useful. One universal characteristic of a document dump is that its shippers intend to slow down the process through which their adversaries can make this information comprehensible. In an effort to minimize negative coverage by the news media, document dumps will often take place at times when reporters are not on duty, such as late on a Friday when media members have left for the weekend.\n\nThe term \"document dump\" is rarely used in public by the shipper or its workers. Public use of the phrase tends to be confined to the recipients of the information.\n"}
{"id": "15844045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15844045", "title": "Election Commission of Pakistan", "text": "Election Commission of Pakistan\n\nThe Election Commission of Pakistan (), is an independent, autonomous, permanent and constitutionally established federal body responsible for organizing and conducting of elections to state parliament, provincial legislatures, local governments, elections to the office of President of Pakistan, delimitation of constituencies and preparation of Electoral Rolls. As per the principles enlightened by the Constitution of Pakistan, the Commission makes such arrangements as are necessary to ensure that the election is conducted honestly, justly, fairly and in accordance with law, and that corrupt practices are guarded against The Election Commission was formed on 23 March 1956 and has been restructured and reformed in various occasions of history of the country.\n\nUnder the Article 213 & 216, the Chief Election Commissioner and four retired judges of the High Courts from respective four province of the country, who are appointed by the President in the manner provided in the clauses (2A) and (2B) of Article 213 of constitution. As of present, Justice (R) Sardar Muhammad Raza is the current Chief Election Commissioner.\nElection Commission of Pakistan has a 5-member panel, out of which 4 members are from each of the four provinces (Punjab, Sindh, Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) headed by a Chief Election Commissioner. The Commission transacts its business by holding meetings. All members of the Election Commission have equal status and say in the decisions of the Commission.\n\nThe functions and duties of ECP are defined and set by the Constitution of Pakistan in Article 219. In the light of which, the Commission is charged with the following duties\n\nThe Commission has retains its independence, full financial autonomy and functions independently of all government control. Without the government interference, the commission performs its functions and conduct of nationwide general elections as well as for the by-elections which is decided by the Election Commission itself. The preparation of polling schemes, the appointment of polling personnel, assignments of voters and arrangements for the maintenance of law and order are under the control, supervision and directions of the Election Commission.\n\nDuring its rulings and judgements in the case \"\" Election Commission v. Javed Hashmi\", the Supreme Court held that \"in the election matters the Election Tribunals which are to be appointed by the Chief Election Commissioner\" have exclusive jurisdiction and the jurisdiction of all courts in such matters was excluded. However, this is subject to an exception that where no legal remedy is available to an aggrieved party during the process of election or after its completion, against an order of an election functionary which is patently illegal jurisdiction. The effect of which is to defranchise a candidate, candidate can press into service Constitutional jurisdiction of the High Court. The Supreme Court of Pakistan has since then consistently followed this judgment.\n\nThe Commission transacts its business by holding meetings. All members of the Election Commission have equal status and say in the decisions of the Commission.\n\nJudicial review of the decisions of the Election Commission can be sought in the High Court and the Supreme Court of Pakistan if the order suffers from a jurisdictional defect or is mala fide or coram non judice.\n\nThe budget of the Election Commission is provided by the federal government.\n\nAny re-appropriation within the sanctioned budget can be done by the Chief Election Commissioner without making any reference to the Finance Division.\n\nFunds required for preparation of electoral rolls and the conduct of General Elections and by-elections are provided in lump sum by the Finance Division according to the requirements of the Election Commission.\n\nFurther distribution of funds to the various functionaries is done with the approval of the Chief Election Commissioner.\n\nThe Election Support Group, an internationally supported group of interested parties, made 32 specific recommendations to the Election Commission based on the recommendations of 16 international organizations. A meeting was held in October 2009 to present these ideas to the Commission. The Commission commissioned ESG to provide them with a recommendations on how to best solve the addressed problems.\n\nAlso, in 2006, the International Foundation for Electoral Systems implemented a 9 million dollar contract through USAID to install a computerised electoral rolls system for the Pakistani government.\n\nThe Election Commission of Pakistan was awarded International Awards twice by International Center for Parliamentary Studies (ICPS) on 8300 SMS service becoming first country in World to introduce nationwide SMS service by publishing voters credentials in highly secure manner keeping the privacy of every voter intact in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on December, 2013 and in Cape Town, South Africa on December, 2014 on project of Computerized Electoral Rolls Systems (CERS).\n\n"}
{"id": "27438351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27438351", "title": "Engineers Joint Contract Documents Committee", "text": "Engineers Joint Contract Documents Committee\n\nThe Engineers Joint Contract Documents Committee (EJCDC) is a coalition of stakeholders in the project delivery process who have developed a set of engineering and construction contract documents with a specific focus on horizontal infrastructure in the United States. The EJCDC effort reflects a contract perspective that is more closely aligned with the engineer for engineer-lead construction. The EJCDC document set is alternative to a perceived bias in AIA documents for water and waste water horizontal infrastructure projects.\n\nEJCDC is a joint venture of three major organizations of professional engineers and contractors:\n\nEJCDC has existed since 1975 to develop and update fair and objective standard documents that represent the latest and best thinking in contractual relations between all parties involved in engineering design and construction projects. EJCDC includes a major portion of the professional groups engaged in the practice of providing engineering and construction services for engineer-lead constructed projects, and includes the participation of more than 15 other professional engineering design, construction, owner, legal, and risk management organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "37442871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37442871", "title": "European Union (Croatian Accession and Irish Protocol) Act 2013", "text": "European Union (Croatian Accession and Irish Protocol) Act 2013\n\nThe European Union (Croatian Accession and Irish Protocol) Act 2013 (c. 5) is an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom introduced to the House of Commons by William Hague. The Act made provisions consequential on the Treaty concerning the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and on the Protocol on the concerns of the Irish people on the Treaty of Lisbon.\n\nThe Bill was discussed on the 6 and 27 November 2012 and passed and sent to the House of Lords on 27 November 2012. It had its third reading in the Lords on 21 January 2013. Royal Assent was given on 31 January 2013.\n\nThere are six sections of the Act.\n\nThis section amends the European Union Act 2011, so as to accept the accession of Croatia to the European Union, and certifies that this does not require a referendum.\n\nThe second section accepts the approval of the Irish Protocol, and certifies that this does not require a referendum. The Protocol adapted the Lisbon Treaty in June 2009.\n\nThis section adds the accession of Croatia and the Irish Protocol to the European Communities Act 1972.\n\nThis section amends the rights of Croatian nationals to work in the United Kingdom, including provisions of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 and makes an offence the employment of a Croatian national without authorisation.\n\nThis section sets out how provisions made under section 4 will be approved by both Commons and Lords.\n\nThis section confirms the extent of the Act throughout the United Kingdom and its short name.\n\n"}
{"id": "33724935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33724935", "title": "FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc. (2012)", "text": "FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc. (2012)\n\nFederal Communications Commission v. Fox Television Stations, Inc., 567 U.S. 239 (2012), was a Supreme Court case about whether the U.S. Federal Communications Commission's scheme for regulating speech is unconstitutionally vague. The Supreme Court excused the broadcasters from paying the fines, with Justice Anthony Kennedy writing the decision. The case is a continuation of the 2009 case involving the same parties, which had addressed the nature of the fine itself, but did not actually address the ban.\n\nThe case entered the Supreme Court's docket in October 2007 and specifically concerns obscene language broadcast on the Fox television network from two \"Billboard\" Music Awards shows from 2002 and 2003. In the 2002 show, while accepting her Lifetime Achievement Award, Cher said \"fuck 'em\" regarding people who she believed criticized her; in the 2003 show, presenter Nicole Richie stated regarding her television show: “Why do they even call it \"The Simple Life\"? Have you ever tried to get cow shit out of a Prada purse? It’s not so fucking simple.” \n\nIn 2004, after two instances of fleeting expletives on the \"Billboard\" Music Awards show in 2002 and 2003, Federal Communications Commission (FCC) changed its rules on expletives to prohibit \"single uses of vulgar words\" under any circumstances, including previous instances where it gave leeway for \"fleeting\" expletives that networks unknowingly allowed to enter the airwaves. Fox was subsequently fined through its owned and operated television stations group, and challenged its fine in the courts. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled in the initial case (06-1760) that the FCC cannot punish broadcast stations for such incidents. The FCC appealed to the Supreme Court, and in the 2009 case, the Supreme Court reversed the Second Circuit, finding that the new policy was not arbitrary. However, the issue of constitutionality was remanded back to the Second Circuit, which had not considered the issue initially.\n\nUpon remand to hear the initially deferred issue of Constitutionality, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals re-heard the case in January 2010. On July 13, 2010, in a unanimous decision written by Judge Rosemary S. Pooler, the Second Circuit vacated the FCC order and policy on First Amendment grounds, finding that \"by prohibiting all 'patently offensive' references to sex, sexual organs, and excretion without giving adequate guidance as to what 'patently offensive' means, the FCC effectively chills speech, because broadcasters have no way of knowing what the FCC will find offensive. To place any discussion of these vast topics at the broadcaster’s peril has the effect of promoting wide self-censorship of valuable\nmaterial which should be completely protected under the First Amendment.\" The Second Circuit added \nThe FCC requested that the full Second Circuit hear the case en banc, but was denied. The Supreme Court heard oral arguments in this round on January 10, 2012.\n\nIn an 8-0 decision (Justice Sonia Sotomayor recused herself because she had previously sat on the Second Circuit) written by Justice Anthony Kennedy, the Supreme Court ruled that because the regulations at the time did not cover \"fleeting expletives\" (the regulations have since been amended to that end), the fines issued were invalidated as \"unconstitutionally vague\" under the Due Process Clause. Because the case was resolved on that basis, the Court declined to address the First Amendment implications of the FCC's indecency regulations or to reconsider \"FCC v. Pacifica\", 438 U.S. 726 (1978).\n\nGinsburg authored a one-paragraph concurrence in which she agreed with the decision, but argued that the Supreme Court should have revisited \"Pacifica\", as she felt it was “wrong when it was issued.”\n\n"}
{"id": "54427460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54427460", "title": "Gift register", "text": "Gift register\n\nThe gift register () of an abbey or monastery was a record of the properties forming its estate, the majority of which came from gifts (\"Schenkungen\"). The register served as proof of the legitimacy of these properties and thus provided some security and protection for them. As a rule, the register comprised transcripts of the original documents, not the deed itself, as in the case of the sometimes protocular tradition books. In order to facilitate the management of the estate, documents spanning several centuries were often organised geographically. The entries were kept up-to-date over a longer period of time.\n\nThe Reichenbach Gift Register (\"Reichenbacher Schenkungsbuch\") belonging to Reichenbach Abbey in the Northern Black Forest was preserved in three volumes: first the St. Paul Manuscript (1099-1105), then the Stuttgart Manuscript (1143-1152) and finally the Wiblingen Manuscript (16th century). The latter, however, has been missing since 1963. The original text, which was not preserved, was probably written by the time of Abbot William (died 1091).\n\nLike those at Fulda, documents about the estates of the imperial abbey of Lorsch have survived dating as far back as the 8th century. The Lorsch Codex compiled in the 12th century contains the names of more than 1000 places, which are mentioned for the first time.\n\nAmong the place first recorded in the Codex are Sersheim, Lohra, Neckargröningen, now part of Remseck am Neckar, Mannheim and Nauheim.\n\nThe \"Codex Hirsaugiensis\" was created as an edited version of the \"Traditiones Hirsaugenses\" tradition, in order to enable a systematic access to the monastery's documents. Personalities mentioned in the Hirsau gift register include Conrad I of Württemberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28763076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28763076", "title": "Granville Hinton", "text": "Granville Hinton\n\nGranville Hinton (born February 10, 1929) was an insurance agent from Savannah, Tennessee who served as a Republican member of the Tennessee House of Representatives from various districts including Hardin and McNairy counties from 1967-1972.\n\nHe later served as Tennessee state Commissioner of Conservation under Governor Winfield Dunn, and was the Legislative Liaison (lobbyist) for Governor Lamar Alexander from 1978-1986.\n\nHinton was elected to the House from the 31st Floterial District in 1966 at the age of 37, and served three terms. During his last term in office, he served as assistant minority floor leader. He was succeeded by fellow Republican (and insurance agent) Ray Bodiford.\n\nSubsequently, he was appointed Commissioner of Conservation by Governor Winfield Dunn, serving from 1973-75.\n\nIn December 1978, Governor-elect Lamar Alexander appointed Hinton his Legislative Liaison (chief lobbyist).\n\nHinton was a State Farm Insurance insurance agent for 40 years. He was a Methodist and a Mason. The Savannah-Hardin Center of Jackson State Community College offers a small \"Granville Hinton Memorial Scholarship Award\" to a Hardin County resident who takes most of their classes at the Center.\n"}
{"id": "35470755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35470755", "title": "Günter Weigand", "text": "Günter Weigand\n\nGünter Weigand (born in 1924 in Olsztyn, East Prussia) is a self-proclaimed “social lawyer” (\"Sozialanwalt\"), economist and amateur prosecutor who became victim of a judicial and psychiatric scandal.\n\nHeinrich Böll and the German expert in criminal law Karl Peters (among others) made it possible, that the Weigand case is known as a miscarriage of justice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12201075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12201075", "title": "Hague–Visby Rules", "text": "Hague–Visby Rules\n\nThe Hague–Visby Rules is a set of international rules for the international carriage of goods by sea. They are a slightly updated version of the original Hague Rules which were drafted in Brussels in 1924.\n\nThe premise of the Hague–Visby Rules (and of the earlier English common law from which the Rules are drawn) was that a carrier typically has far greater bargaining power than the shipper, and that to protect the interests of the shipper/cargo-owner, the law should impose some minimum affreightment obligations upon the carrier. However, the Hague and Hague–Visby Rules were hardly a charter of new protections for cargo-owners; the English common law prior to 1924 provided more protection for cargo-owners, and imposed more liabilities upon \"common carriers\".\n\nThe official title of the Hague Rules the \"International Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules of Law relating to Bills of Lading\". After being amended by the Brussels Amendments (officially the \"Protocol to Amend the International Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules of Law Relating to Bills of Lading\") in 1968, the Rules became known colloquially as the Hague–Visby Rules.\n\nA final amendment was made in the SDR Protocol in 1979. Many countries declined to adopt the Hague-Visby Rules and stayed with the 1924 Hague Rules. Some other countries which upgraded to Hague-Visby subsequently failed to adopt the 1979 SDR protocol.\n\nThe Hague–Visby Rules were incorporated into English law by the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1971; and English lawyers should note the provisions of the statute as well as the text of the rules. For instance, although Article I(c) of the Rules exempts live animals and deck cargo, section 1(7) restores those items into the category of \"goods\". Also, although Article III(4) declares a bill of lading to be a mere \"prima facie evidence of the receipt by the carrier of the goods\", the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992 section 4 upgrades a bill of lading to be \"conclusive evidence of receipt\".\n\nUnder Article X, the Rules apply if (\"a) the bill of lading is issued in a contracting State, or (b) the carriage is from a port in a contracting State, or (c) the contract (of carriage) provides that(the) Rules ... are to govern the contract\". If the Rules apply, the entire text of Rules is incorporated into the contract of carriage, and any attempt to exclude the Rules is void under Article III (8).\n\nUnder the Rules, the carrier's main duties are to \"properly and carefully load, handle, stow, carry, keep, care for, and discharge the goods carried\" and to \"exercise due diligence to ... make the ship seaworthy\" and to \"... properly man, equip and supply the ship\". It is implicit (from the common law) that the carrier must not deviate from the agreed route nor from the usual route; but Article IV(4) provides that \"any deviation in saving or attempting to save life or property at sea or any reasonable deviation shall not be deemed to be an infringement or breach of these Rules\".\n\nThe carrier's duties are not \"strict\", but require only a reasonable standard of professionalism and care; and Article IV allows the carrier a wide range of situations exempting them from liability on a cargo claim. These exemptions include destruction or damage to the cargo caused by: fire, perils of the sea, Act of God, and act of war. A controversial provision exempts the carrier from liability for \"neglect or default of the master ... in the navigation or in the management of the ship\". This provision is considered unfair to the shipper; and both the later Hamburg Rules (which require contracting states to denounce the Hague–Visby Rules) and Rotterdam Rules (which are not yet in force) refuse exemption for negligent navigation and management.\n\nAlso, whereas the Hague–Visby Rules require a ship to be seaworthy only \"before and at the beginning\" of the voyage, under the Rotterdam Rules the carrier will have to keep the ship seaworthy throughout the voyage (although this new duty will be to a reasonable standard that is subject to the circumstances of being at sea).\n\nBy contrast, the shipper has fewer obligations (mostly implicit), namely: (i) to pay freight; (ii) to pack the goods sufficiently for the journey; (iii) to describe the goods honestly and accurately; (iv) not to ship dangerous cargoes (unless agreed by both parties); and (v) to have the goods ready for shipment as agreed; (q.v.\"notice of readiness to load\"). None of these shippers' obligations are enforceable under the Rules; instead they would give rise to a normal action in contract.\n\nWith only 10 Articles, the Rules have the virtue of brevity, but they have several faults. When, after 44 years of experience, the 1924 Rules were updated with a single minor amendment, they still covered only carriage \"wholly\" by sea (thereby ignoring multi-modal transport), and they barely acknowledged the container revolution of the 1950s. Also, UNCTAD felt that they had actually diluted the protection to shippers once provided by English common law, and proposed instead the more modern Hamburg Rules of 1978, which were embraced by many developing countries, but largely ignored by ship-operating nations. The modern Rotterdam Rules, with some 96 articles, have far more scope and cover multi-modal transport but remain far from general implementation.\n\nA list of ratifications and denouncements of the 3 conventions is shown below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38833438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38833438", "title": "Heritage Places Protection Act", "text": "Heritage Places Protection Act\n\nThe Heritage Places Protection Act is a provincial statute which allows for the recognition and protection of cultural heritage and natural heritage properties in the province of Prince Edward Island, Canada. \n\nThe Act requires the province's Minister of Tourism and Culture to establish a register of \"heritage places\", sites containing or comprising immovable \"historic resources\" (defined as any work of nature or of man that is primarily of value for its palaeontological, archaeological, prehistoric, historic, cultural, natural, scientific or aesthetic interest). A place may consist of a single property and/or building, a heritage trail or corridor, or a heritage district comprising more than one heritage place. There are two levels of historic recognition for heritage places included on the register:\n\n\nPrince Edward Island has a heritage plaque program to provide public recognition for Designated Heritage Places which are designated under the terms of the Act. The navy blue and gold enamel plaques are provided at no cost to the owners of designated buildings. \n\nThe Minister may delegate any of his or her powers under the Act to a municipality, with the consent of the municipal council in question, as long as the municipality has a heritage plan in place setting out its objectives, policies and programs for the conservation of its heritage. The Province's two most populous municipalities, Charlottetown and Summerside, accordingly have civic recognition programs for historic sites within their respective jurisdictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2494170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494170", "title": "Hosted service provider", "text": "Hosted service provider\n\nA hosted service provider (xSP) is a business that delivers a combination of traditional IT functions such as infrastructure, applications (software as a service), security, monitoring, storage, web development, website hosting and email, over the Internet or other wide area networks (WAN). An xSP combines the abilities of an application service provider (ASP) and an Internet service provider (ISP).\n\nThis approach enables customers to consolidate and outsource much of their IT needs for a predictable recurring fee. xSPs that integrate web publishing give customers a central repository to rapidly and efficiently distribute information and resources among employees, customers, partners and the general public.\n\nHosted Service Providers benefit from economies of scale and operate on a one-to-many business model, delivering the same software and services to many customers at once. Customers are charged on a subscription basis.\n\nAs defined by analyst Ovum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15403", "title": "ISO 4217", "text": "ISO 4217\n\nISO 4217 is a standard first published by International Organization for Standardization in 1978, which delineates currency designators, country codes (alpha and numeric), and references to minor units in three tables:\n\nThe tables, history and ongoing discussion are maintained by SIX Interbank Clearing on behalf of ISO and the Swiss Association for Standardization.\n\nThe ISO 4217 code list is used in banking and business globally. In many countries the ISO codes for the more common currencies are so well known publicly that exchange rates published in newspapers or posted in banks use only these to delineate the currencies, instead of translated currency names or ambiguous currency symbols. ISO 4217 codes are used on airline tickets and international train tickets to remove any ambiguity about the price.\n\nThe first two letters of the code are the two letters of the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country codes (which are also used as the basis for national top-level domains on the Internet) and the third is usually the initial of the currency itself. So Japan's currency code is JPY—JP for Japan and Y for yen. This eliminates the problem caused by the names \"dollar, franc, peso\" and \"pound\" being used in dozens of countries, each having significantly differing values. Also, if a currency is revalued, the currency code's last letter is changed to distinguish it from the old currency. In some cases, the third letter is the initial for \"new\" in that country's language, to distinguish it from an older currency that was revalued; the code sometimes outlasts the usage of the term \"new\" itself (for example, the code for the Mexican peso is MXN). Other changes can be seen, however; the Russian ruble, for example, changed from RUR to RUB, where the B comes from the third letter in the word \"ruble\".\n\nIn addition to codes for most active national currencies ISO 4217 provides codes for \"supranational\" currencies, procedural purposes, and several things which are \"similar to\" currencies:\n\nThe use of an initial letter \"X\" for these purposes is facilitated by the ISO 3166 rule that no official country code beginning with X will ever be assigned. Because of this rule ISO 4217 can use X codes without risk of clashing with a future country code. ISO 3166 country codes beginning with \"X\" are used for private custom use (reserved), never for official codes. For instance, the ISO 3166-based NATO country codes (STANAG 1059, 9th edition) use \"X\" codes for imaginary exercise countries ranging from XXB for \"Brownland\" to XXR for \"Redland\", as well as for major commands such as XXE for SHAPE or XXS for SACLANT. Consequently, ISO 4217 can use \"X\" codes for non-country-specific currencies without risk of clashing with future country codes.\n\nThe inclusion of EU (denoting the European Union) in the ISO 3166-1 reserved codes list, allows the euro to be coded as EUR rather than assigned a code beginning with X, even though it is a supranational currency.\n\nThe ISO 4217 standard includes a crude mechanism for expressing the relationship between a major currency unit and its corresponding minor currency unit. This mechanism is called the currency \"exponent\" and assumes a base of 10. For example, USD (the United States dollar) is equal to 100 of its minor currency unit the \"cent\". So the USD has exponent 2 (10 to the power 2 is 100, which is the number of cents in a dollar). The code JPY (Japanese yen) is given the exponent 0, because its minor unit, the sen, although nominally valued at 1/100 of a yen, is of such negligible value that it is no longer used. Usually, as with the USD, the minor currency unit has a value that is 1/100 of the major unit, but in some cases (including most varieties of the dinar) 1/1000 is used, and sometimes ratios apply which are not integer powers of 10. Mauritania does not use a decimal division of units, setting 1 ouguiya (UM) equal to 5 khoums, and Madagascar has 1 ariary = 5 iraimbilanja. Some currencies do not have any minor currency unit at all and these are given an exponent of 0, as with currencies whose minor units are unused due to negligible value.\n\nThere is also a three-digit code number assigned to each currency, in the same manner as there is also a three-digit code number assigned to each country as part of ISO 3166. This numeric code is usually the same as the ISO 3166-1 numeric code. For example, USD (United States dollar) has code 840 which is also the numeric code for the US (United States).\n\nThe ISO standard does not regulate either the spacing, prefixing or suffixing in usage of currency codes. According however to the European Union's Publication Office, in English, Irish, Latvian and Maltese texts, the ISO 4217 code is to be followed by a hard space and the amount:\n\nIn Bulgarian, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Lithuanian, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovene, Spanish and Swedish the order is reversed; the amount is followed by a hard space and the ISO 4217 code:\n\nNote that, as illustrated, the order is determined not by the currency, but by the native language of the document context.\n\nIn 1973, the ISO Technical Committee 68 decided to develop codes for the representation of currencies and funds for use in any application of trade, commerce or banking. At the 17th session (February 1978), the related UN/ECE Group of Experts agreed that the three-letter alphabetic codes for International Standard ISO 4217, \"Codes for the representation of currencies and funds\", would be suitable for use in international trade.\n\nOver time, new currencies are created and old currencies are discontinued. Frequently, these changes are due to the formation of new governments, treaties between countries standardizing on a shared currency, or revaluation of an existing currency due to excessive inflation. As a result, the list of codes must be updated from time to time. The ISO 4217 maintenance agency (MA), SIX Interbank Clearing, is responsible for maintaining the list of codes.\n\nThe following is a list of active codes of official ISO 4217 currency names.\nIn the standard the values are called \"alphabetic code\", \"numeric code\", and \"minor unit\".\nThe US dollar has two codes assigned: USD and USN (next day). The USS (same day) code is not in use any longer, and was removed from the list of active ISO 4217 codes in March 2014.\n\nAccording to UN/CEFACT recommendation 9, paragraphs 8–9 ECE/TRADE/203, 1996, available online:\n\nAs of August 2018, there are no new codes planned to be added to the standard.\n\nA number of currencies are not included in ISO 4217, because these currencies are: (a) minor currencies pegged 1:1 to a larger currency, even if independently regulated (b) a legal tender only issued as commemorative banknotes or coinage, or (c) a currency of an unrecognized or partially recognized state. These currencies include:\n\nSee for a list of all currently pegged currencies.\n\nDespite having no official recognition in ISO 4217, the following non-ISO codes are sometimes used locally or commercially.\n\nIn addition, GBX is sometimes used (for example on the London Stock Exchange) to denote Penny sterling, a subdivision of pound sterling, the currency for the United Kingdom.\n\nRecently, cryptocurrencies have unofficially used ISO codes on various cryptocurrency exchanges, for instance LTC for Litecoin, NMC for Namecoin and XRP for Ripple. SIX Interbank Clearing (a Maintenance Agency of ISO) is currently studying the impact and role of cryptocurrencies and other independent currencies on ISO 4217.\n\nA number of currencies were official ISO 4217 currency codes and currency names until their replacement by the euro or other currencies. The table below shows the ISO currency codes of former currencies and their common names (which do not always match the ISO 4217 names). These codes were first introduced in december 1988 after a request from the reinsurance sector was accepted\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7825584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7825584", "title": "Israeli nationality law", "text": "Israeli nationality law\n\nIsraeli nationality law () regulates who are and can become citizens of Israel.\n\nThe law rests on two statutes; the Law of Return enacted in 1950, allowing every Jew to immigrate to Israel, and the Citizenship act of 1952 that defines how Israeli nationality could be acquired and lost. The Law of Return has since been amended twice and the Citizenship act 13 times.\n\nThe primary principles of Israeli citizenship is \"jus sanguinis\" (citizenship by descent) for Jews and \"jus soli\" (citizenship by place of birth) for others.\nApart from citizenship, there is another civil status which can be held by residents of Israel; the permanent residency status. It is most common among Syrian citizens of the Golan Heights and among Arab East Jerusalem residents, but it occurs also among other non-citizens.\n\nThis section describes the major changes to the Israeli nationality law from the establishment of the State in 1948 until today.\n\nPrior to the establishment of Israel in 1948, the area that became Israel was part of Mandatory Palestine. Its inhabitants were citizens of Mandatory Palestine. The mandate came to an abrupt end in 1948 and the State of Israel was established during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. The nascent state had no citizenship law and technically speaking, no citizens. Neither Jews nor Palestinians had official citizenship status, but had identity cards or Temporary Residence Permits. \n\nThis omission brought on a host of legal issues and Israeli courts provided conflicting positions on the question of citizenship. In a question relating to the nationality of former Palestinian citizens, the Tel Aviv District Court, referring to public international law, ruled that\n\nOther courts held that former Palestine citizens had lost their citizenship with the termination of the Mandate without acquiring any other.\nVoting rights for the Knesset's first two sessions in 1949 and 1951 were therefore based on residence and not nationality.\n\nOn July 5, 1950 the Knesset enacted the Law of Return, a precursor to the nationality law that would be enacted later. The law specified that \"every Jew has the right to come to his country as an oleh [Jewish immigrant]\" but were otherwise mute on the question of citizenship. \n\nThe first nationality law was the Citizenship act of 1952. The law explicitly repealed the Palestinian Citizenship Order 1925 retroactively from the day of the establishment of the State. It enumerated four ways to acquire Israeli nationality, by return, by residence, by birth and by naturalization.\n\nThe most controversial stipulations of the law were those concerning acquisition of nationality by residence. Although Israel was the successor state to the Palestine Mandate, the law did not automatically recognize nationals of Palestine as Israeli. Jewish and Arab residents of the mandate became citizens using different means: Jews using the Law of Return whereas Arabs only if they\n\n\nThe intention of these stipulations was to limit the number of Arabs who would be eligible for citizenship and to deny it to those who tried to return after the 1948 war. During the war, a large number of Palestinian Arabs had fled from Israeli-occupied territory and as they weren't registered as residents they did not gain Israeli nationality. \n\nNeither did they receive citizenship in any of the surrounding Arab states that they sought refuge in, with the exception of Jordan so they became stateless. This led to the promulgation of the Palestinian refuge crisis, one of the most intractable and long-lived refugee crises in the world. Scholars who have argued in favor of the Palestinian refugees right of return have argued that the 1952 Citizenship act constituted a \"denationalization\" and was a breach of international law. About three-quarter of a million Palestinians left and 160,000 remained in the territories that became Israel.\n\nIn the years following 1948, many internally displaced Palestinians and Palestinians outside the borders of Israel managed to return to their former places of residence. Due to the court's strict interpretation of the \"by residence\" clauses of the citizenship act, such as requiring \"continuous\" residence in the state, they were denied citizenship and only granted permanent residency status. This left tens of thousands of former Palestinian citizens stateless.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, several court cases were brought forward by Palestinians who challenged the strict rules for citizenship by residence. The question was finally settled in 1980, when further means of acquiring citizenship by residence was amended to the law so that it was retroactively made available for this group.\n\nWhile the law of Return allowed every Jew to immigrate to Israel, it did not define \"Who is a Jew?\" which brought on some legal issues such as the case of \"Rufeisen v Minister of the Interior\" in 1962. Oswald Rufeisen was a Polish Jew who had converted to Catholicism and sought to immigrate to Israel. The Supreme Court ruled that by converting to another religion he had forfeited his right to return. This decision of the court would make its way into the second amendment of the Law of Return in 1970 in which \"Jew\" was defined:\n\nThis interpretation differs from Jewish religious law, halakha in which a person born Jewish and a member of another religion would be considered a Jew.\n\nIn 1970 the Law of Return was expanded to grant the same rights to the spouse of a Jew, the children of a Jew and their spouses, and the grandchildren of a Jew and their spouses:\n\nIn 1999, the Supreme Court of Israel ruled that Jews or the descendants of Jews that actively practice a religion other than Judaism are not entitled to immigrate to Israel as they would no longer be considered Jews under the Law of Return, irrespective of their status under Halakah.\n\nOn April 16, 2008, the Israeli Supreme Court ruled in a case brought by a number of people with Jewish fathers and grandfathers whose applications for citizenship had been rejected on the grounds that they were Jewish Messianics. The argument was made by the applicants that they had never been Jews according to Halakha, and were not therefore excluded by the conversion clause. This argument was upheld in the ruling, and the government agreed to reprocess their applications.\n\nIn 1971 the third amendment of the nationality law as enacted in the Knesset. The amendment added a new paragraph to Section 2 dealing with citizenship by return and read:\nThe amendment was in response to the large number of Soviet Jews in the period following the Six-day war who where denied exit visas and therefore unable to leave the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 2003, the Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law was passed. Originally intended as a temporary law it has since been extended on several occasions and is currently on the books. \n\nThe law prohibits citizenship by family reunification between Israeli citizens and non-Jewish spouses from countries which some have termed \"enemy nationals\", Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Iran and the Palestinian territories. In January 2012, the Supreme Court of Israel upheld the validity of the law.\n\nAcquiring Israeli citizenship by decree of the Minister of the Interior was added in 1968 (2nd amendment).\n\nAccording to international law, Israeli citizens are Israeli nationals having Israeli nationality so the nationality exists. But an ongoing debate in Israeli politics is whether an Israeli nationality exists in a \"deeper\" sense. Does an Israeli nationality exist, distinct from a Jewish or Palestinian nationality?\n\nDomestic Israeli law does not recognize an Israeli nationality. Citizens are registered along mostly ethnic affiliations, the main ones being Jewish, Arab, Druze and Circassian but foreign nationalities such as Egyptian, Georgian and Russian are also allowed. This registration is imprinted on Israeli identity card, which citizens are required to carry at all times under the field \"le'om\" (לאום) the Hebrew word for \"nationality\" or \"ethnic affiliation.\"\n\nTwo lawsuits have been brought forward by citizens requesting to have their nationality registered as \"Israeli\" to the Supreme Court. Both times the request have been denied. The first of which was by human rights advocate and psychologist Georges Tamarin in 1971 who carried a plea to the Supreme Court to have his nationality identification as Jew changed to Israeli. An unanimous court ruled against him arguing that \"there is no Israeli nation separate from the Jewish people.\"\n\nIn 2010, retired computational linguist professor Uzi Ornan, head of the I am an Israeli movement, and other Israeli scholars such as Joseph Agassi lead a lawsuit challenging this system, demanding to have their affiliation listed as \"Israeli.\" The request, ostensibly about the existence of an \"Israeli nationality,\" was in 2013 denied by the Supreme Court, citing concerns about preserving the Jewish character of the Israeli State.\n\nAlthough not a part of the nationality law, Israeli citizens have the following rights:\n\nOther rights are granted equally to citizens and permanent residents of Israel, among them: the right to work within Israel, the right to extenuation of tax payments, the right to a pension when needed from the social security services, and the right to vote within the scope of local ordinances. Residents who are not citizens may, however, lose their status (and thus any rights provided to them in Israel) if they move outside Israel's borders (outside the Green Line including the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem), contrary to the privileges of citizens which enable them to re-settle in Israel at any time.\n\nIsraeli citizens are required to have an Israeli passport at all times when outside the country, which must have been acquired before leaving Israel.\n\nMilitary service is legally mandatory for most Israeli citizens and residents although various exemptions can be granted. Arab citizens of Israel and haredi Jews (ultra-Orthodox) have received a blanket exemptions.\n\nThis section lists the various ways of acquiring Israeli citizenship.\n\nThe Law of Return grants all Jews (given the law's definition of \"Jew\" described above) the right to immigrate to Israel and claim Israeli citizenship upon arrival in Israel. \n\nIsraeli law distinguishes between the Law of Return, which allows for Jews and their descendants to immigrate to Israel, and Israel's nationality law, which formally grants Israeli citizenship. In other words, the Law of Return does not itself determine Israeli citizenship; it merely allows for Jews and their eligible descendants to permanently live in Israel. Israel does, however, grant citizenship to those who immigrated under the Law of Return if the applicant so desires.\n\nA non-Israeli Jew or an eligible descendant of a non-Israeli Jew needs to request approval to immigrate to Israel, a request which can be denied for a variety of reasons including (but not limited to) possession of a criminal record, currently infected with a contagious disease, or otherwise viewed as a threat to Israeli society. Within three months of arriving in Israel under the Law of Return, immigrants automatically receive Israeli citizenship unless they explicitly request not to.\n\nCitizenship by residence provisions of the citizenship act were intended for non-Jewish residents of the British Mandate of Palestine, such as Arabs. Such residents who were continuously present within the territorial confines of Israel from the establishment of the state until the date of the enactment of the citizenship law were granted Israeli citizenship. In order to determine who was eligible for citizenship under this provision, the State conducted a population registration in 1952 and again in the 1980s. Those found to meet the requirements obtained Israeli citizenship. For purposes regarding modern Israeli citizenship, this section is usually irrelevant.\n\nA child (including children born outside Israel as first generation out of Israel) automatically acquires Israeli citizenship at birth if either or both of his or her parents are Israeli citizens. Persons born outside Israel are Israeli citizens if their father or mother holds Israeli citizenship, acquired either by birth in Israel, under the Law of Return, by residence, or by naturalization.\n\nCitizenship by descent, on the principle of \"jus sanguinis\", is limited to only one generation born abroad. Despite this limitation, descendants of an Israeli national born abroad may be eligible to Israeli citizenship through other methods, such as the Law of Return.\n\nIn 1996 the citizenship law was amended (6th amendment) to allow Israeli citizenship by adoption. A non-Israeli child adopted by Israeli citizens is entitled to Israeli citizenship on the day of the adoption if it is made under Israeli law. A child adopted outside of Israel by Israeli citizens who are not residents of Israel can receive Israeli citizenship if both adoptive parents consent to it.\n\nAdults may acquire Israeli citizenship through naturalization. To be eligible for naturalization, a person must have resided in Israel for three years out of the previous five years, have the right to reside in Israel on a permanent basis, renounce his or her previous citizenship and swear an oath of citizenship to the state reading:\nIn 2010, a controversial bill was proposed to change the wording of the oath to:\nBut the bill didn't garner a majority in the Knesset and wasn't enacted.\n\nThe application must also have \"some knowledge\" of Hebrew but no language tests are used. No similar requirement is made for Arabic. \n\nAll naturalization requests are at the discretion of the Minister of the Interior.\n\nTraditionally, Israel granted citizenship to a non-Israeli spouse or partner of a Jewish Israeli citizen under the Law of Return. However, this practice was suspended in 1999 due to immigration concerns if the Jewish spouse had done Aliyah previous to the marriage or is an Israeli citizen by birth. \n\nThe Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law of 2003 suspended the right of naturalization by marriage of a non-Israeli spouse who lives in the Palestinian territories. The suspension was extended several times, most recently in 2016. The practice was suspended because some West Bank militants used the process to gain access to Israel proper with all related privileges, such as unrestricted movement.\n\nFrom inside Israel the Israeli parent(s) must go to the Ministry of the Interior with the child and the child's original birth certificate that lists the Israeli parent(s) as the parents of the child. In addition, the Israeli parent(s) need(s) to bring their identity cards or their Israeli passport and the child's foreign passport. If the parents are not married or did not register their marriage with the Ministroy of the Interior or Foreign Affairs, both of the parents must be in attendance at the Ministory of the Interior. After all of the information is verified, the child will be issued an identity number and an Israeli passport. If the child is 16 years or older, he or she will also receive an identity card. It is important to note that in Israel there is no separation of religion and state. If the mother is not Jewish by Orthodox standards then the child can not be registered as Jewish, nor can the child be married to a Jewish person inside of Israel without first undergoing an Orthodox conversion to Judaism. By the same token, a child born to a mother considered Jewish by Orthodox standards is automatically also registered as Jewish.\n\nThere are cases in which the state can initiate a cancellation of citizenship of an Israeli citizen. Article 11 of the Israeli nationality law establishes three circumstances for which citizenship can be revoked:\n\n\nWith regard to citizenship being obtained on the basis of false information, the Interior Minister may cancel the Israeli citizenship of anyone who obtained it through such means within three years of them having acquired it. If the person had acquired Israeli citizenship more than three years prior to the discovery of it having been obtained with false information, the Interior Ministry must first obtain permission from an administrative court to cancel it.\n\nA 2008 amendment to the \"Nationality Law of 1952\" designated nine countries as enemy states: Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Pakistan, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen, as well as the Gaza Strip.\n\nPer article 10 of the citizenship act, Israeli citizens living abroad renounce their Israeli citizenship by filing an application with an Israeli embassy. The application is transferred to the Administration of Border Crossings, Population and Immigration, acting on behalf of the Minister of Interior, which reviews and either grants or rejects the request. The request may be denied for any reason, such as if the person is obligated to serve in the military or if the person cannot prove that he or she has secured another state's citizenship.\n\nAccording to a report from the Population and Immigration Authority, 8 308 Israelis renounced their citizenship from 2003 to 2015.\n\nIsrael allows its citizens to hold dual (or multiple) citizenship. A dual national is considered an Israeli citizen for all purposes, and is entitled to enter Israel without a visa, stay in Israel according to his own desire, engage in any profession and work with any employer according to Israeli law. \n\nThere are two exceptions to this principle. Under an additional law added to the Basic Law: the Knesset (Article 16A) according to which Knesset members cannot pledge allegiance unless their foreign citizenship has been revoked, if possible, under the laws of that country. Israeli citizenship cannot be acquired by naturalization unless one renounces his or her previous citizenship. \n\nA dual national is not considered a foreign citizen under Israeli Security Service Law and is subject to a mandatory military service according to that law. He or she is considered a citizen regarding the criminal liability of Israeli civilians according to the Israeli Penal Law (and accordingly is not entitled to consular access by a representative of the other country). He or she is considered a citizen according to the Israeli laws of personal status, such as the authority jurisdiction of the rabbinical courts in the matters of marriage and divorce, according to the Israeli Rabbinical courts jurisdictions law.\n\nThis table lists the 11 amendments to the Nationality Law, when they were enacted in the Knesset, when they came into force and which issue of the gazette Sefer Ha-Chukkim (The Book of Laws) they were published in:\nThis section lists some notable court cases relating to Israeli nationality law:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50909446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50909446", "title": "Join Hands Day", "text": "Join Hands Day\n\nJoin Hands Day is the first Saturday in May. It is a national volunteer day and annual event sponsored by the American Fraternal Alliance.\n\nThe day was launched by what was then called America's Fraternal Benefit Societies in 2000, in partnership with Points of Light Foundation. It is meant to have a focus not just on volunteering, but also on developing youth and adult relationships.\n\nFor the first two years of Join Hands Day, organizations were asked to register their Join Hands Day projects via the official web site. In some years, a certain number of groups were chosen to receive a cash award for the beneficiary of their project or another cause and a physical award, and were recognized at the National Fraternal Congress of America (NFCA) annual conference. It was not always on the first Saturday in May; the 2001 day was held on June 16.\n\nOrganizers of Join Hands Day offer participants ideas for group volunteering events that can bring adults and youth together in community service, such as repairing bicycles to give disadvantaged children and teaching bicycle maintenance, collecting chairs of various shapes and sizes to paint and then auction for a worthy cause, or repairing gravestones and improve landscaping in a cemetery and documenting historic grave sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "57724794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57724794", "title": "Karl Engisch", "text": "Karl Engisch\n\nKarl Engisch (15 March 1899 - 11 September 1990) was a German jurist and a Philosopher of Law. He was described by as one of the \"outstanding theorists of criminal justice of the [twentieth] century\" (\"herausragenden Strafrechtstheoretiker des vergangenen Jahrhunderts\").\n\nKarl Engisch was born at the tail end of the nineteenth century in Gießen, a mid-sized university town north of Frankfurt. Friedrich Engisch (1871-1943), his father was a lawyer. He passed his Abitur (school final exams) which would normally have opened the way to a university education, but these were the war years, and the eighteen year old was now sent to take part in the fighting. He was wounded twice. After the war he studied law at Gießen and Munich between 1918 and 1921. His teachers included Wolfgang Mittermaier, , and . From very early on Engisch was strongly drawn not so much to the mainstream Jurisprudence curriculum but to the philosophy of law, seen then as now as more of a niche specialism. Two leading scholars who particularly influenced him in this field were Max Weber at Munich and at Gießen. During his time at Gießen Karl Engisch, like his younger brother Ludwig Engisch (1900–1957), was a member of the fraternity. In 1924 Karl Engisch received his doctorate. Supervised by , his dissertation concerned , an aspect of Legal Philosophy, and a theory which German sources impute to Jeremy Bentham and John Austin.\n\nHe undertook a between 1924 and 1927, working in his father's law practice. He took on the criminal law cases. In 1929 he received his habilitation (higher academic qualification) at Gießen. His work was supervised by the criminologist Wolfgang Mittermaier (1867–1956) and comprised a substantial monograph on criminal intent and negligence which even today, despite dramatic swings back and forth in the evolution of criminal sciences in the intervening decades, continues to be regarded by admirers as a standard work in its field.\n\nA powerful influence during this period was the Munich-based criminologist , to whom Engisch later dedicated his \"Logische Studien zur Gesetzesanwendung\" (\"loosely: \"Logical studies in the application of law\"\"). He accepted teaching posts in Criminal Law at University of Freiburg (1929) and Munich (1932). In October 1933 he returned to take up a criminal law teaching post at Gießen.\n\nThe Nazi seizure of power in January 1933 was followed, in April 1933, by the so-called \"Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service\" (\"Gesetz zur Wiederherstellung des Berufsbeamtentums\"). The law was progressively implemented across the civil service (which in German included the universities sector) over the next few months. The man who held the teaching chair in Criminal Law at Heidelberg University, Gustav Radbruch, had been a government minister during the early 1920s. He was a Social Democratic. Despite not being Jewish, Radbruch's political record meant that he was just the sort of person whom the authorities had in mind when designing their law. He was dismissed. Karl Engisch was by now a party member and well regarded in the relevant academic circles. He took over the teaching chair in criminal law, criminal process and the philosophy of law at Heidelberg University. Despite the circumstances, Radbruch reacted with generosity. He said that he could think of no successor that he would prefer, and there are suggestions that Engisch would not have disappointed him. Clearly Engisch was not deeply political, and he failed to see through the Nazis in the early years. But sound academic scepticism protected him from slavish adherence to anyone's party line. Where he cited Jewish authors in his written work, he simply ignored government strictures that they should go unacknowledged, even as many academic colleagues simply stopped acknowledging Jewish contributions in their work. Engisch displayed a certain amount of backbone in May 1935 after the student union called for a boycott of non-Aryan lecturers. As dean of the faculty he protested (unsuccessfully) when Nazi \"SA\" paramilitaries intervened against the university administration to enforce a boycott of Jewish lecturers, notably in respect of Ernst Levy. He was one of those jurists who rejected the intervention of Nazi ideology into the law, and avoided the inclusion of such themes in his own books. On the other hand, he did expressly, if crudely, support the government in a review he contributed in 1936 to , a venerable and distinguished legal journal: \n\nDuring this period Engisch turned down invitation to take up academic posts at Marburg (1933), Leipzig (1938) and Vienna (1940). In June 1942 the Minister for Culture and Education appointed him Legal Counsel (\"Rechtsbeirat\") to the University of Heidelberg with responsibilities covering academic discipline.\n\nWar ended in May 1945, and the twelve Nazi years came to an end. The western two thirds of Germany was now divided into military occupation zones. Heidelberg University was a high-profile institution within the US occupation zone. On 2 January 1946 Karl Engisch was dismissed from his university posts on the orders of the US military commander. On 5 December 1946 his professorship was reinstated, however, and on 16 December 1950 he was granted tenure at Heidelberg for life. (In April 1950 he had turned down an invitation to move to Hamburg University.)\n\nIn 1953 he finally accepted an invitation to move. He transferred to the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, taking over the teaching chair vacated by . He retired from the post only in April 1967. In the meantime, at the Kösener Senioren-Convents-Verband (association of student fraternities) congress, held on 27 May 1955, he delivered the main address at the Würzburg Residence (palace). He returned to Heidelberg where, on 30 November 1972, he accepted an honorary professorship and, till his death on 11 September 1990, delivered lectures on criminal law and the philosophy of law.\n\nIn his lectures Engisch knew how to expand his subject's horizons beyond the framework commonly accepted in the law faculty, introducing concepts from the worlds of philosophy and literature. Those whom he most frequently cited included Goethe, Kant, Thomas Mann and Schopenhauer.\n\nHe received honorary doctorates from the universities of Heidelberg, Mannheim and Saragossa. He was awarded the Bavarian Order of Merit in 1961, and enjoyed membership of the Heidelberg and Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities, conferred respectively in 1938 and 1956. In 1971 he became a corresponding member of the Royal Academy of Science, Letters and Fine Arts of Belgium.\n\nEngisch was a co-editor of two academic journals. He also possessed one of the largest specialist private libraries on legal theory of the times. Part of it had to be stored out of town at a separate site.\n\nAmong students his best known publication is probably \"Einführung in das juristische Denken\" (\"Introduction to Legal Thinking\") which first appeared in 1956. By 2005 it had reached its tenth edition. The work has been translated into Portuguese (1965), Spanish (1967) and Greek (1981)\n\n\n\nEngisch also published many reviews and pieces of literary criticism.\n\nNote\n"}
{"id": "18259273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18259273", "title": "Last injurious exposure rule", "text": "Last injurious exposure rule\n\nIn law, the last injurious exposure rule is the principle that when an occupational disease was caused by a succession of jobs, or could have been caused by any one of a succession of jobs, the most recent employer with the risk exposure is liable.\n"}
{"id": "17005319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17005319", "title": "Latvian nationality law", "text": "Latvian nationality law\n\nThe Latvian nationality law () is based on the Citizenship Law of 1994 (as at 2013, amended four times, most recently through the amendments approved by the Parliament of Latvia on May 9, 2013). It is primarily based on jus sanguinis.\n\nThe first nationality law of Latvia was adopted in August, 1919. In September, 1940, the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union adopted a decree on the order of receiving USSR citizenship by the citizens of the Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian SSRs. In October, 1991, the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia has adopted a resolution \"On the renewal of Republic of Latvia citizens' rights and fundamental principles of naturalization\" declaring the 1940 decree null and void with regard to Republic of Latvia citizens. On 2 September 2012, the Central Election Commission received a draft for amendments to the Citizenship Law, providing that, from 1 January 2014, all non-citizens (a status held by former USSR citizens who do not possess citizenship of Latvia or any other state and who do not apply for citizenship while residing in Latvia), who by 30 November 2013 had not applied, under the rules of the Cabinet of Ministers, to retain the status of non-citizen shall be considered to be citizens of Latvia; these amendments would have automatically granted citizenship to any person who might have the status of non-citizen, without regard for place of residence, interest in acquiring citizenship of Latvia, and awareness of the amendments. The Central Election Commission sought opinions from legal experts before itself making any decision on the admissibility and sufficiency of the popular initiative. The majority of the experts requested were inclined to consider there to have been sound arguments for ceasing organisation of the popular initiative, the Central Election Commission went along with their opinion.\n\nDual citizenship is not prohibited by Latvian citizenship law. According to the amendments to the Citizenship Law which came into force on 1 October 2013, citizenship of Latvia may be retained for persons who have acquired the citizenship of:\nChildren of citizens of Latvia may hold dual citizenship with any country. Some countries, such as Japan, however, do not permit their nationals to also, after reaching adulthood, hold a foreign citizenship. A dual Latvian-Japanese national must declare, to Japan's Ministry of Justice, his or her intention as to which citizenship to keep, before turning 22.\n\nBefore October 1, 2013, the newly acquired non-Latvian citizenship is simply not recognised by the Republic of Latvia, with the exception of a transitional clause: Latvia allows dual citizenship for those and their descendants who were forced to leave Latvia during the Soviet or Nazi occupations and adopted another citizenship while away from Latvia. In order to be eligible for dual citizenship, they had to claim it by July 1, 1995. If such a claim is made after this date, they shall renounce the citizenship of another state. If by a law of another state a Latvian citizen may be a citizen of this state, in relations with Latvia this person is considered solely as a Latvian citizen.\n\nIn general terms, you might be eligible to get Latvian citizenship by descent and keep existing citizenship (dual citizenship) if:\n\nApplication procedure requires having documents that prove your connection to the family member with Latvian heritage and proof that they withdrew or were exiled. If ancestors of applicant left prior to 1940, he/she still be able to qualify for citizenship, but will not qualify to have dual citizenship.\n\nIn 2017, the Latvian nationality is ranked twenty-third in the Nationality Index (QNI). The QNI considers travel freedom and internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well.\n\nBecause Latvia forms part of the European Union, Latvian citizens are also citizens of the European Union under European Union law and thus enjoy rights of free movement and have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. When in a non-EU country where there is no Latvian embassy, Latvian citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country. Latvian citizens can live and work in any country within the EU as a result of the right of free movement and residence granted in Article 21 of the EU Treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54967438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54967438", "title": "List of bankrupts", "text": "List of bankrupts\n\nPersonal bankruptcy (also known as personal insolvency) law allows, in certain jurisdictions, an individual to be declared bankrupt, which is a legal status of a person or other entity that cannot repay the debts it owes to creditors. In most jurisdictions, bankruptcy is imposed by a court order, often initiated by the debtor. Personal bankruptcy is distinguished from corporate bankruptcy, which generally does not directly affect the business owners' personal assets.\n\nModern bankruptcy law often distinguishes \"reorganization\", in which only some of the bankrupt's assets are taken, a repayment plan is devised and part of the debt is discharged, from liquidation. In the latter type of bankruptcy, all of the debtors assets are included in the bankruptcy estate, sometimes in addition to his disposable income for a period of time, after which all of the debts are discharged.\n\nThe details vary between jurisdictions. In the USA, the liquidation bankruptcy is governed by Chapter 7 of the Title 11 of the United States Code and is generally available to individuals passing a means test. Reorganization bankruptcy is governed by Chapters 11 and 13. Chapter 11 is mostly used by high net-worth individuals. In the 12-month period ending June 30, 2017, Chapter 7 and Chapter 11 bankruptcy filings accounted for, respectively, 474,258 (61%) and 1,099 (0.14%) out of 772,594 nonbusiness bankruptcy filings in the USA.\n\nBankruptcy filings by celebrities generate extensive publicity, which has been cited as a factor contributing to a shift towards a less negative public perception of personal bankruptcy observed since the 1960s. Lawyers have reported using celebrity examples to persuade their clients to file for bankruptcy.\n\nListed below are notable individuals who filed for personal bankruptcy or were subject to a similar form of insolvency management process. The list does not include business bankruptcies and bankruptcies that were not officially recognized.\n"}
{"id": "10088016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10088016", "title": "List of professional sportspeople convicted of crimes", "text": "List of professional sportspeople convicted of crimes\n\nThis list includes sports-people who have been convicted of serious crimes (such as felonies in the United States). It comprises both professionals and those amateurs who have competed at the highest levels.\n\nN.B: \"Italics\" indicates retired or inactive.\n"}
{"id": "4745344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4745344", "title": "Made in Germany", "text": "Made in Germany\n\nMade in Germany is a merchandise mark indicating that a product has been manufactured in Germany.\n\nThe label was originally introduced in Britain by the \"Merchandise Marks Act 1887\", to mark foreign produce more obviously, as foreign manufactures had been falsely marking inferior goods with the marks of renowned British manufacturing companies and importing them into the United Kingdom. Most of these were found to be originating from Germany, whose government had introduced a protectionist policy to legally prohibit the import of goods in order to build up domestic industry (Merchandise Marks Act - Oxford University Press).\n\nAccording to Professor Asaf Zussman, Department of Economics, Hebrew University in \"The Rise of German Protectionism in the 1870s: A Macroeconomic Perspective∗\", the \"Rye and Iron\" tariffs introduced by Bismarck’s Germany in 1879 caused a major reduction of imports in order to protect Germany's industries. As a response, the Free-trade Liberal government in the UK introduced the Merchandise Marks act to allow consumers to be able to choose whether or not they would continue to purchase goods from protectionist economies.\n\nGermany successfully leveraged the \"Made in Germany\" tag as a brand synonymous of product reliability and quality.\n\n\"Made in Germany\" is not controlled by a central regulatory body. However, In 1973, the Bundesgerichtshof made a ruling that \"Made in Germany\" does not enable people to properly distinguish between the two Germanys of the time, so Made in West Germany and Made in GDR became popular.\n\nIn 1995, the Oberlandesgericht Stuttgart ruled that the term \"Made in Germany\" is misleading according to Germany's Fair Trades Act when the largest part is not German raw materials or German craftsmanship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5778056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5778056", "title": "Mariticide", "text": "Mariticide\n\nMariticide (from Latin \"maritus\" \"husband\" + \"-cide\", from \"caedere\" \"to cut, to kill\") literally means killing of one's husband. The killing of a wife is called uxoricide.\n\nUxoricide (the murder of a wife) is much more common than Mariticide.\n\nUnder English common law it was a petty treason until 1828, and until it was altered under the Treason Act 1790 the punishment was to be strangled and burnt at the stake.\n\n\nIn Greek mythology\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31566842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31566842", "title": "Marshallese constitutional referendum, 1979", "text": "Marshallese constitutional referendum, 1979\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Marshall Islands on 1 March 1979. The new constitution was approved by 63.8% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "44190458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44190458", "title": "Michael Karayanni", "text": "Michael Karayanni\n\nMichael (Mousa) Karayanni (, ; born 1964) is a professor of law at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and holds the Bruce W. Wayne Chair in International Law.\nHe was educated at Bar-Ilan University (LL.B 1990); George Washington University National Law Center (LL.M 1994); Hebrew University of Jerusalem (LL.D, summa cum laude, 2000), University of Pennsylvania (S.J.D., 2003). His doctoral supervisors were Celia Wasserstein Fassberg (at Hebrew University) and Geoffrey C. Hazard, Jr. (at Penn).\nKarayanni was the Academic Director of the Minerva Center for Human Rights (2004-2006); Vice-Dean of the Faculty of Law (2006-2008) and the Director of the Harry and Michael Sacher Institute for Legislative Research and Comparative Law (2008 – 2012).\nAmong his prizes and awards: The Israeli Arab Scholarship Program, awarded by the United States Embassy in Tel-Aviv for Graduate Studies in the United States (1992-1994); Allan Bronfman Prize for Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation in the Humanities and Law (2000); Zeltenr Award for Young Scholar (2002); Fulbright Fellowship (2002-2003); Rothschild Fellowship (2002-2003); Ma’of Fellowship (2003-2006); Israel Science Foundation Grant (2005-2009) (with Celia Fassberg); Michael Bruno Memorial Award (2007); Rector's Prize (2011); Israel Science Foundation Grant (2012 – 2014);\nKarayanni held visiting positions University of Melbourne Law School (Senior Fellow, The Melbourne Law Masters, 2013); Stanford Law School (Visiting Professor of law, 2012-2013); Stanford University (Visiting Associate Professor, Ford Dorsey Program in International Policy Studies, Stanford University, 2012-2013); Yale Law School (Senior-Fellow, Orville H. Schell, Jr. Center for International Human Rights, 2008 Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton (Member, 2007-2008); The Max Planck Institute for Foreign Private and Private International Law, Hamburg (visiting Scholar, 1997, 2000).\nKarayanni’s research interest are private international law (conflict of Laws); civil procedure, multiculturalism.\nKarayanni is a Palestinian-Arab, was born to a Christian Greek-Orthodox family in Kafr Yasif, a village in the Western Galilee in Israel. He is married to Inas, a computer analyst, and the father of three children. He resides today in Neve Shalom – Wahat el-Salam, a joint Jewish-Arab village located midway between Tel-Aviv and Jerusalem.\n\nTo view the above bibliography\n"}
{"id": "3037853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3037853", "title": "Muragh", "text": "Muragh\n\nMuragh was a tax levied for the construction or maintenance of town walls. Muragh, also referred to as murage, was generally a term used for the tax meant for the repairs of the defensive walls that enclosed towns in historical England, Wales, Ireland. Construction of the walls with the use of the muragh tax was a way for a market town to generate the revenue needed to pay for its own defense. Typically, muragh was granted for a short period of time typically lasting a few years with opportunities to renew until the completion of wall. Later, the grant for muragh to be collected could last indefinitely in Ireland. The construction of town walls, or the desire to have them, was higher in Wales and Ireland due to their differences in ethnicities. Due to the nature of the tax, it was possible the tax could be used to collect funds for non-defensive walls, like a safety rail on a bridge, because of the loose classification of the civic improvement taxes. The tax rate for the muragh was a small percentage of the value of the good which is estimated to be under 1% of the value. Overall, there are records of 1470 muragh grants recorded in England, France, Scotland, and Wales.\n\nCollection of muraghs were tasked to individuals granted by royal appointment, although some towns appointed their own collector. \n\nFrom Old French, ultimately from Latin \"murus\" meaning literally: wall.\n\nThe building of walled towns was initially intended to defend against Viking incursions. The intent of the muragh also included walls meant for sea defense and defense against natural disasters resulting from flooding in towns near rivers or the ocean; although, they were mainly intended for military defense. In Bristol, England, the recognition of need to use muragh tax collection to repair due to natural disasters was the first allowance of this nature. Due to the River Froom being dangerous and difficult to navigate, the use of muragh to also create trenches around the wall to continue to protect the town and prevent further damage from being done as well as support the local economy through creating a more accessible harbor for trade. The construction of town walls was a communal act, ordered by the king during those times. A muragh was taken mainly on goods being imported into the town to be sold. \n\nThe first grant of muragh began in Shrewbury's grant of 1220 at a rate of 4d. for a boatload of goods coming into the town, and then smaller derivatives for horse-loads, cows, pigs, goats, and sheep. Many towns copied each-others muragh lists of duties once the taxes for each good were developed. Under King Henry III of England it is recorded the exact prices of all goods coming into Bristol in the Patent Roll for his 16th year of reign.\n\nThe advantages of having built a town wall on trade include the opportunity to attract traders and new consumers through the use of impressive gates to show wealth and prestige as well as limiting theft and smuggling outside of the city walls. Prestigious cities attracted more retailers and allowed the price of goods to increase. The addition of decorative doors and gates to the wall did not add to their defensive abilities, but effected the trade within the city.\n\nThe reason for the wall was primarily state defense, as the role of medieval royal government was to protect law and order and defend the state. If the town wanted to build a wall for the benefits of market regulation they must have the primary concern of defense. The royal government was often inclined to support the construction of walls because it emphasized state defense, even in cases when the tax hurt the economy. In the case of Coventry in 1370, King Edward III revoked the muragh tax due to the negative effects on the economy and moved the cost of building the wall onto the wealthier citizens of the town to continue the construction of the wall. Additional records of royal orders for England, Wales, and Ireland can be found in The Calendar of Patent Rolls.\n\nThe royal government also supported the use of muragh for having town walls because it defended their position as the defenders of the realm. The walls were built with the approval and support of the royal government with the primary goal of defending the town. This provided support for the usefulness and necessity of a central government to the citizens. The support during these times was necessary due to the walls protecting against invasion and civil uprising and war to protect the people while maintaining the integrity of the monarchy. \n\nThe use of mural houses in Oxford allowed citizens to live rent-free or tax-free under the condition that they would repair the town wall.\n\nThe church was exempted from the muragh tax in some cases. This was due to the church having lawyers and access to a larger amount of liberties because of their grasp in the legal system. This caused some strife when a town would continue to impose the tax on those exempt from it and was documented. Such cases include St Mary's Abbey and St Leonard's Hospital in 1257 in the town of York, where those exempt from the tax were forced to pay after experiencing difficulties in getting the exemption renewed.\n\nFollowing the English Civil War, the use of town gates and walls became too much of a burden. With the increased growth of urban centers and higher traffic there was a need to begin the process of demolition. Surviving gates were often lesser gates, not the main gate, due to the need for larger entrances to support more traffic. \n"}
{"id": "13746169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13746169", "title": "North American Securities Administrators Association", "text": "North American Securities Administrators Association\n\nThe North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), founded in Kansas in 1919, is the oldest international investor protection organization. NASAA is an association of state securities administrators who are charged with the responsibility to protect consumers who purchase securities or investment advice. NASAA's membership consists of 67 administrators from the territories, districts, and states of the United States, from Mexico, and from the provinces of Canada.\n\nIn the United States, NASAA is the voice of state securities agencies responsible for efficient capital formation and grassroots investor protection. NASAA's fundamental mission is protecting consumers who purchase securities or investment advice, and its jurisdiction extends to a wide variety of issuers and intermediaries who offer and sell securities to the public.\n\nThrough the association, NASAA members participate in multi-state enforcement actions and information sharing. NASAA also coordinates and implements training programs and education seminars for state, district, provincial, and territorial securities agency staff. The Uniform Securities Agent State Law Exam is written by NASAA and administered by FINRA.\n\nRepresentative of the nature of its activities are its frequent warnings regarding investment fraud, its focus on the tax advantages of college plans, and its involvement in naked short selling litigation aimed at the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation.\n\nNASAA also provides a coordinated review process for companies using Regulation A of the Securities Act of 1933 to raise capital.\n\n2017: Mike Rothman, Minnesota\n\n2016: Judy Shaw, Maine\n\n2015: Bill Beatty, Washington\n\n2014: Andrea Seidt, Ohio\n\n2013: A. Heath Abshure, Arkansas\n\n2012: Jack E. Herstein, Nebraska\n\n2011:David S. Massey, North Carolina\n\n2010:Denise Voigt Crawford, Texas\n\n2009: Fred Joseph, Colorado\n\n2008: Karen Tyler, North Dakota\n\n2007: Joseph Borg, Alabama\n\n2006: Patricia D. Struck, Wisconsin\n\n2005: Franklin L. Widmann, New Jersey\n\n2004: Ralph A. Lambiase, Connecticut\n\n2003:Christine A. Bruenn, Maine\n\n2002: Joseph Borg, Alabama\n\n2001:Deborah R. Bortner, Washington\n\n2000: Bradley W. Skolnik, Indiana\n\n1999: Peter C. Hildreth, New Hampshire\n\n1998: Denise Voigt Crawford, Texas\n\n1997: Mark J. Griffin, Utah\n\n1996: Dee Riddell Harris, Arizona\n\n1995: Philip A. Feigin, Colorado\n\n1994: Craig A. Goettsch, Iowa\n\n1993: Barry Guthary, Massachusetts\n\n1992: Lewis W. Brothers, Jr., Virginia\n\n1991: Doug Mays, Kansas & John R. Perkins, Missouri\n\n1990: Susan E. Bryant, Oklahoma\n\n1989: John C. Baldwin, Utah\n\n1988: James C. Meyer, Tennessee\n\n1987: F. Daniel Bell, III, North Carolina\n\n1986: Royce O. Griffin, Colorado\n\n1985: H. Wayne Howell, Georgia\n\n1984: Michael Unger, Massachusetts\n\n1983: Richard D. Latham, Texas\n\n1982: David Hart Wunder, Illinois\n\n1981: Thomas L. Krebs, Alabama\n\nFor presidents prior to 1981, See Official website (below).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5517167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5517167", "title": "Pirated movie release types", "text": "Pirated movie release types\n\nPirated movies are distributed in a variety of forms by groups such as Warez and organized piracy groups. Within the groups, a movie is usually released in several formats and different versions, because the primary sources used by a group for a particular movie may vary. Pirated movies are primarily released by these organized groups, commonly referred to as \"scene\" groups or \"warez groups\". The first release of a movie is usually of a lower quality (due to a lack of sources), and is eventually replaced with higher-quality releases as better sources become available.\n\nPirated movies are usually released in several formats and different versions as better sources become available. The versions are usually encoded in the popular formats at the time of encoding. The sources for pirated copies have often changed with time in response to technology or anti-piracy measures.\n\nCam releases were the early attempts at movie piracy which were implemented by recording the on-screen projection of a movie in a cinema. This enabled groups to pirate movies which were in their theatrical period (not released for personal entertainment). Alternative methods were sought, as these releases often suffered distinctly low quality and required undetected videotaping in movie theaters.\n\nBeginning in 1998, feature films began to be released on the internet by warez groups prior to their theatrical release. These pirated versions usually came in the form of VCD or SVCD. A prime example was the release of \"American Pie\". This is notable for three reasons:\n\n\nIn October 1999, DeCSS was released. This program allowed anyone to remove the CSS encryption on a DVD. Although its authors only intended the software to be used for playback purposes, it also meant that one could decode the content perfectly for ripping; combined with the \"DivX 3.11 Alpha\" codec released shortly after, the new codec increased video quality from near VHS to almost DVD quality when encoding from a DVD source.\n\nThe early DivX releases were mostly internal for group use, but once the codec spread, it became accepted as a standard and quickly became the most widely used format for the scene. With help from associates who either worked for a movie theater, movie production company, or video rental company, groups were supplied with massive amounts of material, and new releases began appearing at a very fast pace. When version 4.0 of DivX was released, the codec went commercial and the need for a free codec, Xvid (then called \"XviD\", \"DivX\" backwards), was created. Later, Xvid replaced DivX entirely. Although the DivX codec has evolved from version 4 to 10.6 during this time, it is banned in the warez scene due to its commercial nature.\n\nIn February 2012, a consortium of popular piracy groups officially announced x264, the free H.264 codec, as the new standard for releases, replacing the previous format, which was Xvid wrapped in an AVI container. The move to H.264 also obsoletes AVI in favor of MP4 and Matroska that most commonly uses .MKV file name extension\n\nWith the increasing popularity of online movie-streaming sites like Netflix, some movies are being ripped from such websites now and are being encoded in HEVC wrapped in Matroska containers. This codec allows a high-quality movie to be stored in a relatively smaller file size.\n\nBelow is a table of pirated movie release types along with respective sources, ranging from the lowest quality to the highest. Scene rules define in which format and way each release type is to be packaged and distributed.\n\nThe initialism HC in some releases refers to hard coded subtitles.\n"}
{"id": "20936305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20936305", "title": "Restatement of the Law of Agency, Third", "text": "Restatement of the Law of Agency, Third\n\nThe Restatement of the Law of Agency (3rd edn, 2006) is a set of principles issued by the American Law Institute, intended to clarify the prevailing opinion on how the law of agency stands in 2006.\n\npara 1.01, \"Agency is the fiduciary relationship that arises when one person (a 'principal') manifests assent to another person (an 'agent') that the agent shall act on the principal's behalf and subject to the principal's control, and the agent manifests or otherwise consents so to act.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3434143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3434143", "title": "Richard Stallman", "text": "Richard Stallman\n\nRichard Matthew Stallman (; born 1953), often known by his initials, RMS, is an American free software movement activist and programmer. He campaigns for software to be distributed in a manner such that its users receive the freedoms to use, study, distribute and modify that software. Software that ensures these freedoms is termed free software. Stallman launched the GNU Project, founded the Free Software Foundation, developed the GNU Compiler Collection and GNU Emacs, and wrote the GNU General Public License.\n\nStallman launched the GNU Project in September 1983 to create a Unix-like computer operating system composed entirely of free software. With this, he also launched the free software movement. He has been the GNU project's lead architect and organizer, and developed a number of pieces of widely used GNU software including, among others, the GNU Compiler Collection, the GNU Debugger and the GNU Emacs text editor. In October 1985 he founded the Free Software Foundation.\n\nStallman pioneered the concept of copyleft, which uses the principles of copyright law to preserve the right to use, modify and distribute free software, and is the main author of free software licenses which describe those terms, most notably the GNU General Public License (GPL), the most widely used free software license.\n\nIn 1989, he co-founded the League for Programming Freedom. Since the mid-1990s, Stallman had spent most of his time advocating for free software, as well as campaigning against software patents, digital rights management (which he referred to as digital \"restrictions\" management, calling the more common term misleading), and other legal and technical systems which he sees as taking away users' freedoms. This has included software license agreements, non-disclosure agreements, activation keys, dongles, copy restriction, proprietary formats and binary executables without source code.\n\nStallman was born March 16, 1953, in New York City, to a family of Jewish heritage. His parents are Alice Lippman, a school teacher, and Daniel Stallman, a printing press broker. Stallman had a difficult relationship with his parents, as his father had a drinking habit and verbally abused his stepmother. He later came to describe his parents as \"tyrants\". He was interested in computers at a young age; when Stallman was a pre-teen at a summer camp, he read manuals for the IBM 7094. From 1967 to 1969, Stallman attended a Columbia University Saturday program for high school students. Stallman was also a volunteer laboratory assistant in the biology department at Rockefeller University. Although he was interested in mathematics and physics, his teaching professor at Rockefeller thought he showed promise as a biologist.\n\nHis first experience with actual computers was at the IBM New York Scientific Center when he was in high school. He was hired for the summer in 1970, following his senior year of high school, to write a numerical analysis program in Fortran. He completed the task after a couple of weeks (\"I swore that I would never use FORTRAN again because I despised it as a language compared with other languages\") and spent the rest of the summer writing a text editor in APL and a preprocessor for the PL/I programming language on the IBM System/360.\n\nAs a first-year student at Harvard University in fall 1970, Stallman was known for his strong performance in Math 55. He was happy: \"For the first time in my life, I felt I had found a home at Harvard.\"\n\nIn 1971, near the end of his first year at Harvard, he became a programmer at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, and became a regular in the hacker community, where he was usually known by his initials, \"RMS\" (which he used in his computer accounts). Stallman received a bachelor's degree in physics (\"magna cum laude\") from Harvard in 1974.\n\nStallman considered staying on at Harvard, but instead he decided to enroll as a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). He pursued a doctorate in physics for one year, but left that program to focus on his programming at the MIT AI Laboratory.\n\nWhile working (starting in 1975) as a research assistant at MIT under Gerry Sussman, Stallman published a paper (with Sussman) in 1977 on an AI truth maintenance system, called \"dependency-directed backtracking\". This paper was an early work on the problem of intelligent backtracking in constraint satisfaction problems. , the technique Stallman and Sussman introduced is still the most general and powerful form of intelligent backtracking. The technique of constraint recording, wherein partial results of a search are recorded for later reuse, was also introduced in this paper.\n\nAs a hacker in MIT's AI laboratory, Stallman worked on software projects such as TECO, Emacs for ITS, and the Lisp machine operating system (the CONS of 1974–1976 and the CADR of 1977–1979—this latter unit was commercialized by Symbolics and LMI starting around 1980). He would become an ardent critic of restricted computer access in the lab, which at that time was funded primarily by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. When MIT's Laboratory for Computer Science (LCS) installed a password control system in 1977, Stallman found a way to decrypt the passwords and sent users messages containing their decoded password, with a suggestion to change it to the empty string (that is, no password) instead, to re-enable anonymous access to the systems. Around 20 percent of the users followed his advice at the time, although passwords ultimately prevailed. Stallman boasted of the success of his campaign for many years afterward.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s, the hacker culture that Stallman thrived on began to fragment. To prevent software from being used on their competitors' computers, most manufacturers stopped distributing source code and began using copyright and restrictive software licenses to limit or prohibit copying and redistribution. Such proprietary software had existed before, and it became apparent that it would become the norm. This shift in the legal characteristics of software was a consequence triggered by the US Copyright Act of 1976.\n\nWhen Brian Reid in 1979 placed time bombs in the Scribe markup language and word processing system to restrict unlicensed access to the software, Stallman proclaimed it \"a crime against humanity\". During an interview in 2008, he clarified that it is blocking the user's freedom that he believes is a crime, not the issue of charging for software. Stallman's texinfo is a GPL replacement, loosely based on Scribe; the original version was finished in 1986.\n\nIn 1980, Stallman and some other hackers at the AI Lab were refused access to the source code for the software of a newly installed laser printer, the Xerox 9700. Stallman had modified the software for the Lab's previous laser printer (the XGP, Xerographic Printer), so it electronically messaged a user when the person's job was printed, and would message all logged-in users waiting for print jobs if the printer was jammed. Not being able to add these features to the new printer was a major inconvenience, as the printer was on a different floor from most of the users. This experience convinced Stallman of people's need to be able to freely modify the software they use.\n\nRichard Greenblatt, a fellow AI Lab hacker, founded Lisp Machines, Inc. (LMI) to market Lisp machines, which he and Tom Knight designed at the lab. Greenblatt rejected outside investment, believing that the proceeds from the construction and sale of a few machines could be profitably reinvested in the growth of the company. In contrast, the other hackers felt that the venture capital-funded approach was better. As no agreement could be reached, hackers from the latter camp founded Symbolics, with the aid of Russ Noftsker, an AI Lab administrator. Symbolics recruited most of the remaining hackers including notable hacker Bill Gosper, who then left the AI Lab. Symbolics also forced Greenblatt to resign by citing MIT policies. While both companies delivered proprietary software, Stallman believed that LMI, unlike Symbolics, had tried to avoid hurting the lab's community. For two years, from 1982 to the end of 1983, Stallman worked by himself to clone the output of the Symbolics programmers, with the aim of preventing them from gaining a monopoly on the lab's computers.\n\nStallman argues that software users should have the freedom to share with their neighbors and be able to study and make changes to the software that they use. He maintains that attempts by proprietary software vendors to prohibit these acts are antisocial and unethical. The phrase \"software wants to be free\" is often incorrectly attributed to him, and Stallman argues that this is a misstatement of his philosophy. He argues that freedom is vital for the sake of users and society as a moral \"value\", and not merely for pragmatic reasons such as possibly developing technically superior software. Eric S. Raymond, one of the creators of the open-source movement, argues that moral arguments, rather than pragmatic ones, alienate potential allies and hurt the end goal of removing code secrecy.\n\nIn February 1984, Stallman quit his job at MIT to work full-time on the GNU project, which he had announced in September 1983. Since then, he has remained affiliated with MIT as an unpaid visiting scientist in the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. Until \"around 1998\", he maintained an office at the Institute that doubled as his legal residence.\n\nStallman announced the plan for the GNU operating system in September 1983 on several ARPANET mailing lists and USENET. He started the project on his own and describes: \"As an operating system developer, I had the right skills for this job. So even though I could not take success for granted, I realized that I was elected to do the job. I chose to make the system compatible with Unix so that it would be portable, and so that Unix users could easily switch to it.\"\nIn 1985, Stallman published the GNU Manifesto, which outlined his motivation for creating a free operating system called GNU, which would be compatible with Unix. The name GNU is a recursive acronym for \"GNU's Not Unix\". Soon after, he started a nonprofit corporation called the Free Software Foundation to employ free software programmers and provide a legal infrastructure for the free software movement. Stallman is the nonsalaried president of the FSF, which is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization founded in Massachusetts. Stallman popularized the concept of \"copyleft\", a legal mechanism to protect the modification and redistribution rights for free software. It was first implemented in the GNU Emacs General Public License, and in 1989 the first program-independent GNU General Public License (GPL) was released. By then, much of the GNU system had been completed.\n\nStallman was responsible for contributing many necessary tools, including a text editor (Emacs), compiler (GCC), debugger (GNU Debugger), and a build automator (GNU make). The notable omission was a kernel. In 1990, members of the GNU project began using Carnegie Mellon's Mach microkernel in a project called GNU Hurd, which has yet to achieve the maturity level required for full POSIX compliance.\n\nIn 1991, Linus Torvalds, a Finnish student, used the GNU's development tools to produce the free monolithic Linux kernel. The existing programs from the GNU project were readily ported to run on the resultant platform. Most sources use the name \"Linux\" to refer to the general-purpose operating system thus formed, while Stallman and the FSF call it \"GNU/Linux\". This has been a longstanding naming controversy in the free software community. Stallman argues that not using GNU in the name of the operating system unfairly disparages the value of the GNU project and harms the sustainability of the free software movement by breaking the link between the software and the free software philosophy of the GNU project.\nStallman's influences on hacker culture include the name POSIX and the Emacs editor. On Unix systems, GNU Emacs's popularity rivaled that of another editor vi, spawning an editor war. Stallman's take on this was to canonize himself as St. IGNUcius of the Church of Emacs and acknowledge that \"vi vi vi is the editor of the beast\", while \"using a free version of vi is not a sin; it is a penance\". On his homepage Stallman explains what a life in the Church of Emacs means to its members: \"Sainthood in the Church of Emacs requires living a life of purity—but in the Church of Emacs, this does not require celibacy (a sigh of relief is heard)\".\n\nIn 1992, developers at Lucid Inc. doing their own work on Emacs clashed with Stallman and ultimately forked the software into what would become XEmacs. The technology journalist Andrew Leonard has characterized what he sees as Stallman's uncompromising stubbornness as common among elite computer programmers:\nStallman has written many essays on software freedom, and has been an outspoken political campaigner for the free software movement since the early 1990s. The speeches he has regularly given are titled \"The GNU Project and the Free Software Movement\", \"The Dangers of Software Patents\", and \"Copyright and Community in the Age of Computer Networks\". In 2006 and 2007, during the eighteen month public consultation for the drafting of version 3 of the GNU General Public License, he added a fourth topic explaining the proposed changes.\n\nLinus Torvalds has criticized Stallman for what he considers \"black-and-white thinking\".\n\nStallman's staunch advocacy for free software inspired the creation of the Virtual Richard M. Stallman (vrms), software that analyzes the packages currently installed on a Debian GNU/Linux system, and reports those that are from the non-free tree. Stallman disagrees with parts of Debian's definition of free software.\n\nIn 1999, Stallman called for development of a free online encyclopedia through the means of inviting the public to contribute articles. The resulting GNUPedia was eventually retired in favour of the emerging Wikipedia, which had similar aims and was enjoying greater success.\n\nStallman is a world traveler and has visited at least 65 countries, mostly to speak about free software and the GNU project. According to Stallman, the free software movement has much in common with that of Mahatma Gandhi. Stallman is also highly critical of the effect that drug patents have had on developing countries.\nIn Venezuela, Stallman has delivered public speeches and promoted the adoption of free software in the state's oil company (PDVSA), in municipal government, and in the nation's military. In meetings with Hugo Chávez and in public speeches, Stallman criticised some policies on television broadcasting, free speech rights, and privacy. Stallman was on the Advisory Council of Latin American television station teleSUR from its launch but resigned in February 2011, criticizing pro-Gaddafi propaganda during the Arab Spring.\n\nIn August 2006, at his meetings with the government of the Indian State of Kerala, he persuaded officials to discard proprietary software, such as Microsoft's, at state-run schools. This has resulted in a landmark decision to switch all school computers in 12,500 high schools from Windows to a free software operating system.\n\nAfter personal meetings, Stallman obtained positive statements about the free software movement from the then-president of India, A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, French 2007 presidential candidate Ségolène Royal, and the president of Ecuador Rafael Correa.\n\nOn November 30, 2012, Stallman gave the opening lecture at the Goiano Free Software Forum in Brazil, talking about successful cases of switching to free software in government, business and at universities.\n\nStallman has participated in protests about software patents, digital rights management, and proprietary software.\n\nProtesting against proprietary software in April 2006, Stallman held a \"Don't buy from ATI, enemy of your freedom\" placard at a speech by an ATI representative in the building where Stallman worked, resulting in the police being called. ATI has since merged with AMD Corporation and has taken steps to make their hardware documentation available for use by the free software community.\n\nIn response to Apple's Macintosh look and feel lawsuits against Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard in 1988, Stallman called for a boycott of Apple products on the grounds that a successful look-and-feel lawsuit would \"put an end to free software that could substitute for commercial software\". The boycott was lifted in 1995, which meant the FSF started to accept patches to GNU software for Apple operating systems.\nStallman has characterized Steve Jobs as having a \"malign influence\" on computing because of Jobs' leadership in guiding Apple to produce closed platforms. In 1993, while Jobs was at NeXT, Jobs asked Stallman if he could distribute a modified GCC in two parts, one part under GPL and the other part, an Objective-C preprocessor under a proprietary license. Stallman initially thought this would be legal, but since he also thought it would be \"very undesirable for free software\", he asked a lawyer for advice. The response he got was that judges would consider such schemes to be \"subterfuges\" and would be very harsh toward them, and a judge would ask whether it was \"really\" one program, rather than how the parts were labeled. Therefore, Stallman sent a message back to Jobs which said they believed Jobs' plan was not allowed by the GPL, which resulted in NeXT releasing the Objective-C front end under GPL.\n\nCommenting on Jobs' death, he said, \"As Chicago Mayor Harold Washington said of the corrupt former Mayor Daley, 'I'm not glad he's dead, but I'm glad he's gone.'\"\n\nStallman's remark stirred up accusations of being in bad taste, while Eric S. Raymond, author of \"The Cathedral and the Bazaar\", observed that Stallman's statement was not personal, but was simply criticizing walled gardens.\n\nFor a period of time, Stallman used a notebook from the One Laptop per Child program. Stallman's computer is a refurbished ThinkPad T400s with Libreboot, a free BIOS replacement, and the GNU/Linux distribution Trisquel. Before the ThinkPad T400s, Stallman used a Thinkpad X60 with Libreboot and Trisquel GNU/Linux. And before the X60, Stallman used the Lemote Yeeloong netbook (using the same company's Loongson processor) which he chose because, like the X60 and the T400s, it could run with free software at the BIOS level, stating \"freedom is my priority. I've campaigned for freedom since 1983, and I am not going to surrender that freedom for the sake of a more convenient computer.\" Stallman's Lemote was stolen from him in 2012 while in Argentina. Before Trisquel, Stallman has used the gNewSense operating system.\n\nStallman has regularly given a talk entitled \"Copyright vs. Community\" where he reviews the state of digital rights management (DRM) and names many of the products and corporations which he boycotts. His approach to DRM is best summed up by the FSF Defective by Design campaign. In the talks, he makes proposals for a \"reduced copyright\" and suggests a 10-year limit on copyright. He suggests that, instead of restrictions on sharing, authors be supported using a tax, with revenues distributed among them based on cubic roots of their popularity to ensure that \"fairly successful non-stars\" receive a greater share than they do now (compare with private copying levy which is associated with proponents of strong copyright), or a convenient anonymous micropayment system for people to support authors directly. He indicates that no form of non-commercial sharing of copies should be considered a copyright violation. He has advocated civil disobedience in a comment on Ley Sinde.\n\nStallman has also helped and supported the International Music Score Library Project in getting back online, after it had been taken down on October 19, 2007, following a cease and desist letter from Universal Edition.\nStallman mentions the dangers some e-books bring compared to paper books, with the example of the Amazon Kindle e-reader that prevents the copying of e-books and allows Amazon to order automatic deletion of a book. He says that such e-books present a big step backward with respect to paper books by being less easy to use, copy, lend to others or sell, also mentioning that Amazon e-books cannot be bought anonymously. His short story \"The Right to Read\" provides a picture of a dystopian future if the right to share books is impeded. He objects to many of the terms within typical end-user license agreements that accompany e-books.\n\nStallman discourages the use of several storage technologies such as DVD or Blu-ray video discs because the content of such media is encrypted. He considers manufacturers' use of encryption on non-secret data (to force the user to view certain promotional material) as a conspiracy.\n\nHe recognized the Sony BMG copy protection rootkit scandal to be a criminal act by Sony. Stallman supports a general boycott of Sony for its legal actions against George Hotz.\n\nStallman has suggested that the United States government may encourage the use of software as a service because this would allow them to access users' data without needing a search warrant.\n\nHe denies being an anarchist despite his wariness of some legislation and the fact that he has \"advocated strongly for user privacy and his own view of software freedom\".\n\nStallman professes admiration for whistleblowers Julian Assange and Edward Snowden; he advocates for Snowden in a prefix at the beginning of each of his emails, which can be found in several mailing lists, after Snowden leaked the PRISM scandal in 2013: \"To any NSA and FBI agents reading my email: please consider whether defending the US Constitution against all enemies, foreign or domestic, requires you to follow Snowden's example.\"\n\nStallman places great importance on the words and labels people use to talk about the world, including the relationship between software and freedom. He asks people to say \"free software\" and \"GNU/Linux\", and to avoid the terms \"intellectual property\" and \"piracy\" (in relation to copyright). One of his criteria for giving an interview to a journalist is that the journalist agree to use his terminology throughout the article. He has been known to turn down speaking requests over some terminology issues.\n\nStallman argues that the term \"intellectual property\" is designed to confuse people, and is used to prevent intelligent discussion on the specifics of copyright, patent, trademark, and other laws by lumping together areas of law that are more dissimilar than similar. He also argues that by referring to these laws as property laws, the term biases the discussion when thinking about how to treat these issues, writing:\nAn example of cautioning others to avoid other terminology while also offering suggestions for possible alternatives is this sentence of an e-mail by Stallman to a public mailing list:\nHis requests that people use certain terms, and his ongoing efforts to convince people of the importance of terminology, are a source of regular misunderstanding and friction with parts of the free software and open-source communities.\n\nAfter initially accepting the concept, Stallman rejects a common alternative term, \"open-source software\", because it does not call to mind what Stallman sees as the value of the software: freedom. He wrote, \"Free software is a political movement; open source is a development model.\" Thus, he believes that the use of the term will not inform people of the freedom issues, and will not lead to people valuing and defending their freedom. Two alternatives which Stallman does accept are \"software libre\" and \"unfettered software\", but \"free software\" is the term he asks people to use in English. For similar reasons, he argues for the term \"proprietary software\" rather than \"closed-source software\", when referring to software that is not free software.\n\nStallman asks that the term \"GNU/Linux\", which he pronounces , be used to refer to the operating system created by combining the GNU system and the Linux kernel. Stallman refers to this operating system as \"a variant of GNU, and the GNU Project is its principal developer\". He claims that the connection between the GNU project's philosophy and its software is broken when people refer to the combination as merely Linux. Starting around 2003, he began also using the term \"GNU+Linux\", which he pronounces , to prevent others from pronouncing the phrase \"GNU/Linux\" as , which would erroneously imply that the Linux kernel is maintained by the GNU project.\n\nStallman has said that he is \"an atheist of Jewish ancestry\" and often wears a button that reads \"Impeach God\".\n\nStallman refers to mobile phones as \"portable surveillance and tracking devices\", refusing to own a cell phone due to the lack of phones running entirely on free software. He also avoids using a key card to enter his office building since key card systems track each location and time that someone enters the building using a card. According to Stallman, with the exception of a few sites, such as his own website or sites related to his work with GNU and the FSF, he usually does not browse the web directly from his personal computer in order to prevent being connected with his browsing history. Instead, he uses GNU Womb's grab-url-from-mail utility, which can run on a separate system, and act as an email-based proxy to web sites: the user sends an e-mail which the script receives, the remote system downloads the web page content, and then the script emails the user the web page content. More recently he stated that he accesses all web sites via Tor, except for Wikipedia (which generally disallows editing from Tor).\n\nStallman is openly childfree. He has urged others to not have children, viewing it as objectionable for reasons centered on family tensions and overpopulation. He argues that not having children better liberates people to find more productive ways to \"make a positive contribution to the world\".\n\nStallman resides in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nStallman has received recognition for his work, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16180157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16180157", "title": "Robert T. Barton", "text": "Robert T. Barton\n\nRobert Thomas Barton (November 24, 1842 – January 17, 1917) was a Virginia lawyer and politician, the author of law and historical books and articles, and a president of the Virginia Bar Association.\n\nBorn in Winchester, Virginia he served in the Confederate Army, as did his five brothers, two of whom were killed in the War. In 1865, he was admitted to the bar and became one of the leading lawyers in the state. He was also author of some standard textbooks, \"Barton’s Law Practice\" and \"Barton’s Chancery Practice\", and edited a two-volume set of the records of Virginia's colonial courts, \"Virginia Colonial Decisions: The Reports by Sir John Randolph and by Edward Barradall of Decisions of the General Court of Virginia, 1728-1741\", \"which has been a landmark reference work for mid-eighteenth century Virginia since its first printing in 1909.\"\n\nBarton was also a member of the Virginia House of Delegates (1884–85), mayor of Winchester from 1899 to 1903, and sat as chair or president on several state and local organizations. His term as president of The Virginia Bar Association was 1892-93. He was made president of the Farmers and Merchants National Bank of Winchester in 1902.\n\nBarton married twice, first to Katie Knight (1868) and then to Gertrude W. Baker (1890). He had two children with Gertrude. He was buried in Mt. Hebron cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "56026058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56026058", "title": "Second parent adoption", "text": "Second parent adoption\n\nThe second-parent adoption or co-parent adoption is a process by which a marriage partner can adopt her or his partner's biological or adoptive child without terminating the first legal parent's rights. This issue is of significant importance in the context of the LGBT adoption.\n\nIn the United States, second-parent adoption was started by the National Center for Lesbian Rights (formerly the Lesbian Rights Project) in the mid-1980s. California (2003 ), Connecticut, Illinois, Maine, Massachusetts (1999), New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Vermont (1993 ), Washington State and Washington, D.C. explicitly allow second-parent adoption by same-sex couples statewide, either by statute or court ruling. As of May 2007, Colorado allows second-parent adoption by same-sex couples. As of 2013, the Michigan law allowed second-parent adoption for married couples, while banning same-sex marriage. The latter ban was struck down by the Supreme Court in 2015. \n\nCourts in many other states have also granted second-parent adoptions to same-sex couples, though there is no statewide law or court decision that guarantees this. In fact, courts within the same state but in different jurisdictions often contradict each other in practice. \n\nThe American Medical Association supported second parent adoption by same-sex partner, stating that lack of formal recognition can cause health-care disparities for children of same-sex parents.\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics supports second parent adoption. \n\nIn July 2011, The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of Slovenia stated that the existing law allows for second-parent adoption. \n\nIn the context of LGBT adoption and parenting in Australia, , the best option was to apply to the Family Court of Australia for a parenting order, as ‘other people significant to the care, welfare and development’ of the child. It provides an important \"status quo\" if the birth mother were to die, preventing other family members from taking immediate custody of the child.\n\n"}
{"id": "57497466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57497466", "title": "Sindh Local Government Ordinance, 2001", "text": "Sindh Local Government Ordinance, 2001\n\nThe Sindh Local Government Ordinance, 2001 was an ordinance passed by the Provincial Assembly of Sindh on August 14th, 2001, as part of a series of local government ordinances prepared by the National Reconstruction Bureau passed together by each of the four provinces at the time.\n\nThe ordinance was repealed with an act restoring the local government ordinance of 1979 by acting Governor Nisar Ahmed Khuhro following a political row between the PPP and MQM over statements made by Dr. Zulfiqar Mirza.\n"}
{"id": "4968460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4968460", "title": "Siva Vaidhyanathan", "text": "Siva Vaidhyanathan\n\nSiva Vaidhyanathan (born 1966) is a cultural historian and media scholar and is a professor of Media Studies at the University of Virginia. Vaidhyanathan is a frequent contributor on media and cultural issues in various periodicals including \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", \"New York Times Magazine\", \"The Nation\", Slate, and \"The Baffler\". He is a fellow of the New York Institute for the Humanities and the Institute for the Future of the Book. He directs the Center for Media and Citizenship at the University of Virginia, which produces a television show, a radio program, several podcasts, and the Virginia Quarterly Review. He has appeared in an episode of \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\" to discuss early social network services. Vaidhyanathan has appeared in several documentary films, including Terms and Conditions May Apply (2013), Inside the Mind of Google (2009), and Freedom of Expression (2007). In 2016 Vaidhyanathan played a prominent role in the higher-education documentary, Starving the Beast. Vaidhyanathan was portrayed as a character on stage at the Public Theater in New York City in a play called Privacy (2016). Vaidhyanathan serves on the board of the Digital Public Library of America.\n\nVaidhyanatha, is a Tamil Brahmin, who was born in Buffalo, New York, and attended the University of Texas at Austin, earning a BA in History in 1994 and a Ph.D. in 1999 in American Studies. From 1999 through the summer of 2007 he worked in the Department of Culture and Communication at New York University, the School of Library and Information Studies at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and Columbia University. From 1988 through 1993 he was a professional journalist working for several Texas daily newspapers.\n\nCritical Information Studies is a term coined by Siva Vaidhyanathan in 2006 to describe an emerging, transdisciplinary field concerned broadly with the politics of information in contemporary, connected societies. It first appeared in print in an essay he authored entitled, \"Critical Information Studies: A Bibliographic Manifesto,\" which was the afterword to a 2006 special issue of the journal \" Cultural Studies.\"\n\nVaidhyanathan has argued that academics from many fields associated with what he calls \"Critical Information Studies\" (which synthesizes, yet also goes beyond, key aspects of both Cultural Studies and Political Economy) should be engaged in interrogating the \"structures, functions, habits, norms, and practices\" of particular aspects of information culture and in analyzing how these issues go beyond simple arguments about digital \"rights\" to include consideration of the more subtle impacts of cost and access that have the potential for chilling effects on a \"semiotic democracy\" that is situated in \"global flows of information.\"\n\nMany of those affiliated with the field have been critical voices in professional organizations such as the Society for Social Studies of Science and the American Library Association who are concerned about how computer architecture may limit the possibilities of what Henry Jenkins has called \"participatory culture.\" Rather than accept utopian enthusiasms about \"Web 2.0\" uncritically, these scholars point to possible vulnerabilities in democratic institutions posed by Digital Rights Management, tampering with electronic voting, and otherwise trusting private corporations with public information infrastructure.\n\nAccording to Vaidhyanathan, Critical Information Studies is defined by four principal concerns:\n\nVaidhyanathan goes on to argue that Critical Information Studies is \"inchoate.\" Rather than an established field in its own right, it is one that is beginning to take shape and gain its own sense of identity. His essay therefore provides a detailed \"taxonomy\" of work which, though coming from disparate disciplines, could justifiably be included under this new rubric. These disciplines include American Studies, Anthropology, Communication, Computer Science, Cultural Studies, Ethnic Studies, Legal Studies, Library and Information Science, Literary Studies, Media Studies, Musicology, Political Science, and Sociology. Because work in Critical Information Studies cuts across these and other more traditional academic domains, Vaidhyanathan describes it as a \"transfield.\"\n\nAlthough Vaidhyanathan identifies Critical Information Studies as a scholarly practice, he also stresses its strong commitment to public engagement.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17017599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17017599", "title": "Southern Rhodesian Legislative Assembly", "text": "Southern Rhodesian Legislative Assembly\n\nThe Southern Rhodesian Legislative Assembly was the legislature of Southern Rhodesia from 1924 to 1970.\n\nIn 1898, the Southern Rhodesian Legislative Council, Southern Rhodesia's first elected representative body, was founded. Much of the decisions regarding the administration of Southern Rhodesia was made by the British South Africa Company (BSAC). When BSAC rule was terminated in 1923 and Responsible Government achieved, the Legislative Council was replaced by the Legislative Assembly. Under the Constitution, there was provision for the establishment of an upper house to be known as the Legislative Council, but none was ever established, meaning that the Legislative Assembly remained a unicameral legislature.\n\nModelled after the British House of Commons, the Assembly had limitations placed on its powers of legislation, as the British Crown reserved the right to block legislation and allowed only legislation on internal matters to be discussed in the parliament. \n\nThe Letters Patent granting the colony the right to self-government in 1923 made no change to the pre-existing franchise. The law provided that voters must have been resident in Southern Rhodesia for at least six months, and have the ability to complete the claim form for the electoral register in their own handwriting if the registrar required, and to write from dictation 50 words in the English language. In addition, voters had to meet one of three criteria for their financial means: either occupy property worth £150 in their Electoral District, or own a registered mining claim within the colony (for which residence was not required), or receive annual salary of £100 in the colony.\n\nNo change was made to the basic electoral procedure, which continued to be the first past the post system, cast by means of the secret ballot.\n\nThe Letters Patent created a Legislative Assembly with 30 members, and for simplicity the 15 electoral districts set the previous year for the Legislative Council were used for the new assembly, but with each district returning two members. Voters were therefore entitled to two votes. Until 1961 there were technically no restrictions on the ability for native Africans to vote, but a high property qualification ensured that few were entitled to vote. This was altered in 1958, when a special voters' roll was created for Africans, although Africans were limited to voting for 15 Assembly members while Europeans were entitled to elect 50 members.\n\nThe following table reflects only those members elected from general roll electoral divisions.\n"}
{"id": "44894812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44894812", "title": "T411", "text": "T411\n\nt411 or Torrent411 was a semi-private BitTorrent tracker website founded in 2008. According to Alexa Internet, it was the 86th most visited website in France in December 2014, and the first in its category.\n\nOn the 27th of June 2017, t411 was shut down in a joint operation by French and Swedish police.\n\nIn 2006 a BitTorrent tracker named QuebecTorrent (in reference to Quebec) was created. In July 2008, QuebecTorrent was shut down by the Canadian authorities. Shortly after being shut down a clone of the original website was created and named Torrent411. Torrent411 was developed by part of the team that created QuebecTorrent and they maintain the website, torrents, and members. The website's slogan is \"Les pages jaunes du torrent\", or \"The Yellow Pages of the Torrent\" in English; the 411 in Torrent411 refers to the \"White Pages\" telephone directory information number in Canada.\n\nIn August 2011 Torrent411 moved to the new domain name t411.me to avoid possible censure by VeriSign, the US company that manages the .com top-level domain.\n\nIn June 2013, T411 had surpassed 5 million members, confirming its position as the first francophone tracker.\n\nOn October 29, 2014, the site suffered a massive DDOS attack.\n\nOn February 20, 2015, t411.me becomes t411.io in response to a threat of blocking the domain name.\n\nOn April 2, 2015, a French court ordered the French DNS providers to block t411.me, following a complaint from the SCPP.\n\nOn June 27, 2017, t411 was shut down in a joint operation by French and Swedish police.\n"}
{"id": "49001298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49001298", "title": "The Johannesburg Beth Din", "text": "The Johannesburg Beth Din\n\nThe Johannesburg Beth Din is the Beth Din (Court of Jewish Law) of the Union of Orthodox Synagogues of South Africa it serves Jews throughout South Africa, and other countries on the continent. \n\nThe focus of Beth Din is on areas of family law, divorce and conversion, as well as adjudication of financial disputes. Other areas supervised by the Beth Din are: Circumcision, Stam, Mikvaot and Eruvin.\n\nIn 2004, the High Court of South Africa upheld a cherem (excommunication edict) against a Johannesburg businessman because he refused to pay his former wife alimony as ordered by The Johannesburg Beth Din. The case, because of its potential implications with regard to the interaction of religious and state law, elicited global interest.\n\nCurrent members of the Beth Din are:\n\nFormer members of the Beth Din include:\n"}
