{"id": "8515216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8515216", "title": "Allan Savory", "text": "Allan Savory\n\nClifford Allan Redin Savory (born 15 September 1935) is a Zimbabwean ecologist, livestock farmer, environmentalist, and president and co-founder of the Savory Institute. He originated Holistic management (agriculture), a systems thinking approach to managing resources. Savory advocates using bunched and moving livestock to what he claims mimics nature, as a means to heal the environment, stating \"only livestock can reverse desertification. There is no other known tool available to humans with which to address desertification that is contributing not only to climate change but also to much of the poverty, emigration, violence, etc. in the seriously affected regions of the world.\" \"Only livestock can save us.\" He believes grasslands hold the potential to sequester enough atmospheric carbon dioxide to reverse climate change. Praised by cattle farmers, his controversial ideas have sparked opposition from other academics; ranging from debate on evidence for treatment effects to the scope of the potential impact for carbon sequestration. \n\nSavory received the 2003 Banksia International Award and won the 2010 Buckminster Fuller Challenge. Prince Charles called him \"a remarkable man\" and Joel Salatin wrote, “History will vindicate Allan Savory as one of the greatest ecologists of all time.” \n\nIn contrast, James E. McWilliams described Savory as having \"adherence to scientifically questionable conclusions in the face of evidence to the contrary\". George Monbiot said of him, \"his statements are not supported by empirical evidence and experimental work, and that in crucial respects his techniques do more harm than good.\" However, this comment has itself been subject to criticism in a later article published in the Guardian by Hunter Lovins entitled \"Why George Monbiot is wrong: grazing livestock can save the world\".\n\nSavory was educated in South Africa at the University of Natal, gaining a B.Sc. in Biology and Botany in 1955.\n\nSavory claims to have worked on the problem of land degradation (desertification) as early as 1955 in Northern Rhodesia, where he served in the Colonial Service as Provincial Game Officer, Northern and Luapula Provinces. He also claims to have continued this work in Southern Rhodesia first as a research officer in the Game Department, and even claims to have been an independent scientist and international consultant.\n\nHe advocated for slaughtering large numbers of elephants up until 1969 based on the idea that they were destroying their habitat. His research, which he claims was validated by a committee of scientists, led to the government culling 10,000s of elephants in following years. However, this did not reverse the degradation of the land. He has called the decision to advocate for the slaughter of large numbers of elephants \"the saddest and greatest blunder of my life.\" This unnecessary massacre, brought about by interpreting supposed research data to fit the prevailing world-view that too many animals causes overgrazing and overbrowsing, led to Savory becoming determined to solve the problem, which eventually led to his development of the holistic framework for decision-making and to holistic planned grazing, and to his book, \"Holistic Management: A New Decision Making Framework\", written with his wife Jody Butterfield.\n\nSavory was influenced by earlier work of French agronomist André Voisin who established that overgrazing resulted from the amount of time plants were exposed to animals, not from too many animals in any given area. Savory saw this as a solution to overgrazing, and believed that overgrazing was caused by leaving cattle too long and returning them too soon, rather than the size of the herd.\n\nAt the time of Unilateral Declaration of Independence in 1965, Savory was a Captain in the Rhodesian armed forces. He served extensively, commanding the Tracker Combat Unit that later became the Selous Scouts.\n\nSavory was elected to the Rhodesian Parliament representing Matobo constituency in the 1970 election. After resigning from the Rhodesian Front in protest over its racist policies and handling of the war, in 1973 Savory reformed the defunct Rhodesia Party formerly led by Sir Roy Welensky. In June 1973, Savory publicly stated, \"If I had been born a black Rhodesian, instead of a white Rhodesian, I would be your greatest terrorist.\" Although he urged white Rhodesians to understand why he would feel this, the reaction to this statement led to Savory's ousting from the Rhodesia Party. In 1977, non-racist moderate white parties united in opposition to Ian Smith in what was known as the National Unifying Force (NUF) led by Savory. The NUF party won no seats in the 1977 election, and Savory relinquished leadership to Tim Gibbs, son of Rhodesia's last governor. Savory continued to fight Ian Smith and his policies, in particular opposing the Internal Settlement under Bishop Abel Muzorewa. In 1979, due to conflicts with the Smith government, Savory left Rhodesia and went into self-imposed exile to continue his scientific work.\n\nAfter leaving Zimbabwe, Savory worked from the Cayman Islands into the Americas, introducing holistic planned grazing as a process of management to reverse desertification of 'brittle' grasslands by carefully planning movements of dense herds of livestock to mimic those found in nature, allowing sufficient time for the plants to fully recover before re-grazing. Savory immigrated to the US, and with his wife Jody Butterfield founded the Center for Holistic Management in 1984. Its name was later changed to the Savory Center and later Holistic Management International. In 2009 Savory left HMI and formed the Savory Institute. Savory, Butterfield and philanthropist Sam Brown formed the Africa Centre for Holistic Management, based in Zimbabwe in 1992 on of land Savory donated for the benefit of the people of Africa as a learning/training site for holistic management.\nThousands of farmers, ranchers, pastoralists and various organizations are working globally to restore grasslands through the teaching and practice of holistic management and holistic decision making. This includes conservation projects in the US, Africa, Mexico, Argentina, Chile, Canada, and Australia in which various NGOs, government agencies and universities are practicing holistic management and its holistic planned grazing to reverse desertification using livestock as the main agent of change to restore the environment, increase ground cover, soil organic matter and water retention, replenish streams, and combat biodiversity loss.\n\nIn 2003 Australia honored Savory with their Banksia International Award “for the person doing the most for the environment on a global scale” and in 2010, Savory and the Africa Centre for Holistic Management won The Buckminster Fuller Challenge, an annual international design competition awarding $100,000 \"to support the development and implementation of a strategy that has significant potential to solve humanity's most pressing problems.\"\n\nAlthough Savory's approach to the problem of desertification has met resistance from the scientific mainstream (see \"Criticism\" section in Holistic grazing article.), three 2007 and 2010 studies document soil improvement as measured by soil carbon, soil biota, water retention, nutrient holding capacity, and ground litter on land grazed according to Savory's methods compared with continuously grazed and non-grazed land. However, George Wuerthner, writing in The Wildlife News in a 2013 article titled, \"Allan Savory: Myth And Reality\" stated, \"The few scientific experiments that Savory supporters cite as vindication of his methods (out of hundreds that refute his assertions), often fail to actually test his theories. Several of the studies cited on HM web site had utilization levels (degree of vegetation removed) well below the level that Savory actually recommends.\"\n\nIn a 2012 address to the International Union for Conservation of Nature World Conservation Congress, Prince Charles said:\nHis 2013 TED Talk, \"How to green the desert and reverse climate change,\" attracted millions of views and was followed up by the release of his TED Book, \"The Grazing Revolution: A Radical Plan to Save the Earth.\" In his TED Talk Savory asks, \"What are we going to do?\"\nThe Savory Institute is one of eleven finalists in the Virgin Earth Challenge, a competition offering a $25 million prize for whoever can demonstrate a commercially viable design that results in the permanent removal of greenhouse gases out of the Earth's atmosphere to contribute materially in global warming avoidance.\n\nSavory advocates using high technology to develop alternative energy sources and to reduce or eliminate future emissions. He supports grass fed beef and vehemently opposes industrial livestock production. \n\nHe condemns the practice of slash-and-burn cultivation of forests and grasslands, saying that it \"leaves the soil bare, releasing carbon, and worse than that, burning one hectare of grassland gives off more, and more damaging, pollutants than 6,000 cars. And we are burning in Africa, every single year, more than one billion hectares of grasslands, and almost nobody is talking about it.\"\n\nWhen not travelling the world spreading his message, Savory and Butterfield split their time between their house in Albuquerque and a thatched-roof complex of mud huts in the African bush in Zimbabwe. He frequently goes barefoot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30024903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30024903", "title": "Association of Municipalities and Towns of Slovenia", "text": "Association of Municipalities and Towns of Slovenia\n\nAssociation of Municipalities and Towns of Slovenia () (SOS) was established in 1992 and is the biggest representative association of the municipalities of Slovenia. The association has 167 member municipalities (from 212 municipalities) and with this it covers nearly 90% of the inhabitants of Slovenia.\n\nSOS is a member of the Network of Associations of Local Authorities of South-East Europe (NALAS)\n\nBecause of different needs in association with community’s size the association is organized in three sections – section of city municipalities, section with Administrative Unit headquarters and section of other communities. President of each section is also a vice-president of the Association. Member municipalities represent and accomplish their tasks in 11 work groups and commissions, as well as in 15 work groups of association (440 representatives of member communities are operating in this groups), in which they coordinate legal acts and regulation act within working areas that are important for the communities.\n\nThe highest executive body of association is the presidency, composed of 25 mayors, 7 from each section.\n\nTasks of Association of Municipalities and Towns of Slovenia are, in particular, implementation and representation of local community’s common interests in proportion to coordination with legal and regulation acts, which, with their solutions, impact on municipalities’ situation. Among this, there are many other tasks, inter alia: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1184176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1184176", "title": "Australian League of Rights", "text": "Australian League of Rights\n\nThe Australian League of Rights is a far-right political organisation in Australia. It was founded by Eric Butler in South Australia in 1946, and organised nationally in 1960, with principles based on the economic theory of Social Credit expounded by C. H. Douglas. The league describes itself as upholding the virtues of freedom, with stated values of \"loyalty to God, Queen and Country\".\n\nThe league was formed in South Australia in 1946. A national organisation was launched in 1960. The league formed offshoots in the white dominions, Britain, Canada and New Zealand. In 1972 Butler created an umbrella group the Crown Commonwealth League of Rights to represent the four groups; it also served as a chapter of the World Anti-Communist League. It was linked with far right groups in the United States such as the John Birch Society. The first Crown Commonwealth League of Rights conference was held in Melbourne in 1979.\n\nVeritas is the publishing company of the league. The league publishes a weekly newsletter called \"On Target\".\n\nFrom the start, the league has described itself as being based on the principles of Christianity. It is anti-communist and anti-World Government. Its leaders argue in favour of capitalism, by promoting the inviolability of private property and individual enterprise. They are monarchist and opposed to Australian republicanism and see strong relations with Great Britain as fundamental to Australian identity.\n\nThe league has been described as neo-Nazi in various sources although at least one writer differentiated it from neo-Nazi groups saying that unlike such groups, the League \"under the leadership of Eric Butler, sought to maintain a veneer of respectability...\" while using its publications to promote \"the crudest forms of anti-Semitism... Butler's The International Jew presented the argument that \"Hitler's policy was a Jewish policy\".\n\nIn \"Faces of hate: hate crime in Australia\" David Greason wrote: \"The League is not Nazi, yet its propaganda themes are similar in many ways to those used in Nazi Germany 60 years ago. The League refuses to acknowledge any similarities with neo-Nazi organisations, and either points to its philosophical opposition to the centralisation of power, or claims that neo-Nazi organisations are created by powerful Jewish organisations to discredit patriotic groups. In fact, the League has always had a relationship of sorts with such groups. They read the same books, cite the same authorities, and blame the same scapegoats. The nuances of any anti-centralist philosophy are invariably lost on the average neo-Nazi\".\n\nAndrew Moore has cited anti-semitism as the \"touchstone of the League's ideology\", although the league has in the past characterised anti-semitism as \"a political swear word used to criticise those who do not agree with Zionist policies\". The league has described the Holocaust as the \"alleged Holocaust\" and the \"Holocaust Hoax\". Its founder, Eric Butler was well known for his anti-Semitism and support of such documents as the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", a well-known anti-Semitic hoax. The historian Andrew Markus wrote that \"In the 1990s league publications were still promoting The Protocols, describing the Holocaust as a 'hoax', the invention of Zionist propagandists, identifying prominent Jewish individuals in public life and declaring that modern Christianity was 'little more than a form of Liberal Judaism'. The Jewish plot was also described using various code words, notably the 'one world conspiracy' hatched by 'international elites', international bureaucracies, international bankers, members of the Fabian Society, or the United Nations.\".\n\nThe league supported David Irving and assisted his visits to Australia; Veritas published Irving's work in Australia.\n\nThe league is opposed to liberal democracy, the party system and the processes of parliamentary democracy. However, the league has tried to use entryism or support various political parties and community or social groups.\n\nButler in his book \"The Money Power versus Democracy\" (1940) stated \"The Party system of Government can play little part, if any, in the struggle for real democracy. In principle, it is the antithesis of democracy.\"\n\nC. H. Douglas regarded the party system as a \"criminal absurdity\" and argued for the end of the secret ballot. He believed that with the implementation of social credit, party politics would end.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the League attempted to gain control of the National Party of Australia, encouraging members to join the party in sufficient numbers to take control, a tactic known as entryism. Doug Anthony, who had recently become the Nationals' leader, led an effort to defend the party from the League by recruiting people who would vote against League candidates. After a struggle lasting several years, Anthony's forces prevailed. A consequence of this struggle was that the National Party had more members than either of the Labor or Liberal parties, despite always getting a fraction of the votes they did. This fact became much more widely known than the reason for it, both sides having kept the struggle out of the media.\n\nMany years later various League members offered support to the One Nation party.\n\nFormer Western Australian Labor MP, founder of the Australia First Party and later One Nation member Graeme Campbell was associated with the league at the same time as he was a member of One Nation and Australia First. Mr Campbell stated that \"Australia First has no association with the League. It's me with the association.\"\n\nIn 1987 Liberal MP Alexander Downer made an address to the League a fact of which was not made publicly known until 1994 when Downer had in recent months just become his party's leader. It was one of Downer's many mistakes that would ultimately see him step down as Liberal leader in January 1995.\n\nFormer treasurer Peter Costello stated that One Nation's policy of a state bank which would issue low-interest loans was directly taken from the league, and that \"the League of Rights is driving its policy in relation to banking and money\"\n\nThe league operates, and has operated, a number of front organisations such as the Institute of Economic Democracy, the Christian Institute of Individual Freedom, and the Australian Heritage Society.\n\nThe league has been linked with Australians Against Further Immigration (AAFI). Franca Arena raised a question in the New South Wales Legislative Council in 1994 about the links between the AAFI and the \"notorious and dangerous League of Rights, which has been described as the most influential, effective, best organised and most substantially financed racist organisation in Australia\". She questioned whether the AAFI was just a front for the League.\n\nIn 1998 the Australian branch of the B'nai B'rith Anti-Defamation Commission issued a press release that \"The Co-founder of Australians Against Further Immigration (AAFI), and One Nation's Victorian leader Robyn Spencer has addressed numerous League of Rights meetings as well as delivered a speech with League of Rights, Advisory National Director Eric Butler.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "288329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288329", "title": "Border checkpoint", "text": "Border checkpoint\n\nA border checkpoint is a place, generally between two countries, where travelers or goods are inspected. Authorization often is required to enter a country through its borders. Access-controlled borders often have a limited number of checkpoints where they can be crossed without legal sanctions. Arrangements or treaties may be formed to allow or mandate less restrained crossings (e.g. the Schengen Agreement). Land border checkpoints (land ports of entry) can be contrasted with the customs and immigration facilities at seaports, international airports, and other ports of entry.\n\nCheckpoints generally serve two purposes:\n\nCheckpoints are usually manned by a uniformed service (sometimes referred to as customs service or border patrol agents).\n\nIn some countries (e.g. China and Japan), there are border checkpoints when both entering and exiting the country, while in others (e.g. U.S. and Canada), there are border checkpoints only when entering the country. (There are also United States Border Patrol interior checkpoints.)\n\nThe \"Schengen \"Borders Code\",\" which forms part of the law of the European Union, defines some terms as follows (particularities with respect to the EU are left out, in order to emphasize general usability of those definitions): \nThese definitions mean that a place where a road crosses an internal Schengen border is legally not a \"border crossing point\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10094485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10094485", "title": "Budget-maximizing model", "text": "Budget-maximizing model\n\nThe budget-maximizing model is a stream of public choice theory and rational choice analysis in public administration inaugurated by William Niskanen. Niskanen first presented the idea in 1968, and later developed it into a book published in 1971. According to the budget-maximizing model, rational bureaucrats will always and everywhere seek to increase their budgets in order to increase their own power, thereby contributing strongly to state growth and potentially reducing social efficiency.\nThe bureau-shaping model has been developed as a response to the budget-maximizing model. Niskanen's inspiration could also have been Parkinson's law sixteen years earlier (1955).\n\nThe model contemplates a bureaucrat who heads a public administration department, and who will try to maximize the department's budget, thus increasing its salary and prestige.\n\nThere is a demand for the department's services on the part of electors and voters, but, contrary to publicly managed firms, which directly offer their products and services to these electors, the department is responsible for producing the services which will then be supplied by the Legislature to the electors.\n\nIt will therefore be the legislature, or Government, the agent which defines the department's budget, depending on the quantity which it supplies. The more services the department supplies, the higher will its budget be. Therefore, the bureaucrat's objective will be to maximize the quantity of services supplied, subject to a social welfare break-even constraint. This means that the dead weight loss generated by excessive production of services must never be higher than the elector's consumer surplus (otherwise, the Legislature would notice that something was wrong with the department's activity, which would be causing social losses and not gains).\n\nIn other words, a typical, private-sector utility maximizing model would anticipate that the department would expand services (and budgets) to the point that the marginal cost and marginal benefits are equated. In Niskanen's model, he would predict that average costs and benefits would be equated instead of the marginals.\n\n"}
{"id": "560813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=560813", "title": "Civil libertarianism", "text": "Civil libertarianism\n\nCivil libertarianism is a strain of political thought that supports civil liberties, or which emphasizes the supremacy of individual rights and personal freedoms over and against any kind of authority (such as a state, a corporation, social norms imposed through peer pressure and so on). Civil libertarianism is not a complete ideology—rather, it is a collection of views on the specific issues of civil liberties and civil rights.\n\nIn the domain of libertarian philosophy, the primary concern of the civil libertarian is the relationship of the government to the individual. In theory, the civil libertarian seeks to restrict this relationship to an absolute minimum in which the state can function and provide basic services and securities without excessively interfering in the lives of its citizens. One key cause of civil libertarianism is upholding free speech. Specifically, civil libertarians oppose bans on hate speech and obscenity. Although they may or may not personally condone behaviors associated with these issues, civil libertarians hold that the advantages of unfettered public discourse outweigh all disadvantages.\n\nOther civil libertarian positions include support for at least partial legalization of illicit substances (marijuana and other soft drugs), privacy, assisted dying or euthanasia, the right to bear arms, topfree equality, a strong demarcation between religion and politics and more recently support for same-sex marriage.\n\nIn the past twenty years, with the advent of personal computers, the Internet, email, cell phones and other information technology advances a subset of civil libertarianism has arisen that focuses on protecting individuals' digital rights and privacy. The organization most closely affiliated with this sort of civil libertarianism is the Electronic Frontier Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "41582495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41582495", "title": "Corruption in Argentina", "text": "Corruption in Argentina\n\nCorruption in Argentina remains a serious problem. Argentina has long suffered from widespread and endemic corruption. Corruption remains a serious problem in the public and private sector even though the legal and institutional framework combating corruption is strong in Argentina.\n\nA 1996 \"New York Times\" article noted that \"payoffs, kickbacks and government corruption are considered part of everyday life\" in Argentina. Bribery and fraud are also found common among the private sector, and the lack of transparency in government regulations and laws has triggered an increased uncertainty among investors.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 85th place out of 180 countries The Financial Action Task Force removed Argentina from its \"gray list\" in October 2014, noting significant progress made by the country in improving its legislation and procedures against money laundering and illicit financing.\n\nArgentina was ranked 106th out of 177 countries in Transparency International's 2013 Corruption Perceptions Index. It ranked 11th out of 20 countries surveyed in Latin America. Argentina fared even more poorly in the corruption rankings on the 2012–13 Global Competitiveness Report, issued by the World Economic Forum. Out of 152 countries surveyed, Argentina was named the 145th least corrupt, meaning that only seven countries in the world were more corrupt according to the WEF.\n\n\"The Financial Times\" noted in 2013 that in Argentina corruption is widely considered to be \"engrained\", and \"there is the sense that public officials are untouchable\". In May 2013, sociologist Atilio Borón lamented that \"the Argentinian is very accustomed to the idea that governments are corrupt, and does not seem shocked at acts of corruption,\" and that the corruption of politicians therefore does not prevent their reelection. \"This is an economy that for the past 20 years has tolerated a legal drain of over 160 billion dollars,\" he added, \"and this it now coming to take its revenge.\" A CIPCE (Center for the Investigation and Prevention of Economic Crimes) study concluded that public sector corruption alone cost the national treasury around US$10 billion from 1980 to 2006.\n\nA major Argentine newspaper, \"La Nación\", editorialized in October 2013 that although corruption has been a major problem in Argentina since the 1890s, it has been \"on the increase\" since the 1990s.\n\nWikiLeaks cables released in 2011 revealed that diplomats from the United States and several other Western countries had expressed deep concern about the current levels of corruption in Argentina. \"Under President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner,\" reported the Heritage Foundation in 2013, \"respect for markets and the rule of law has deteriorated and corruption has boomed.\"\n\nAccording to Transparency International, Argentina has sufficient legislation and institutions dedicated to the prosecution of corruption in the public sector, but enforcement is highly inadequate, with the result that \"impunity continues to trump integrity.\"\n\nThere is a long history of serious corruption in Argentina. \"Ever since independence, almost 200 years ago Argentina's foreign debt has been a source of impoverishment and corruption and the biggest scandals.\" Likewise, rumors or allegations of corruption have frequently been publicized by feuding political figures or factions in Argentina by way of undermining rivals.\n\nThe earliest major episode in the history of corruption in Argentina began with an 1824 loan from the British banking house Baring Brothers, which was \"the leader in financing Argentina's economic development for upwards of sixty years and the major issuer of that country's loans,\" with Baring Brothers' Argentine loans totaling £19.2 million by the late 1880s (nearly US$100 million). In August 1888, however, Baring Brothers was unable to place £10 million of shares and debentures in Buenos Aires Water Supply & Drainage Company, a firm that was \"denounced as a feeding trough for corrupt politicians and rapacious foreign capitalists.\"\n\nBaring Brothers' inability to dispose of these and other Argentinian holdings placed the firm in acute distress, forcing the Bank of England to arrange a rescue in which J.P. Morgan & Co. played the major role. The Baring Brothers episode was an important chapter not only in the history of Argentinian economics but also in the history of the global stock market. According to one source, \"scandals surrounding corruption claims in connection with the loan damaged both Buenos Aires and London.\"\n\nPresident Miguel Juárez Celman, who was in office from 1886 to 1890, came to the presidency as a result of electoral fraud. Through a policy known as \"Unicato,\" Juárez Celman, who opposed universal suffrage and considered it to be always an error \"to consult the people,\" assumed total power in Argentina, bringing together the forces of business and politics in ways that enabled both to profit at the expense of the state treasury. An English newspaper of the time is quoted as describing Argentine corruption as follows: \"Today there are dozens of men in government who are publicly accused of malpractice, who in any civilized country would be quickly punished with imprisonment, and yet none of them have been brought to justice. Meanwhile Celman is at liberty to enjoy the comfort of his farm and no one thinks to punish him.\" Juárez Celman was, however, eventually removed from office in the Revolution of 1890, amid allegations of corruption.\n\nThe period between 1930 and 1943, starting when General José Félix Uriburu came to power in the 1930 coup, was known as the \"Infamous Decade\" owing to the high degree of corruption involving business, and both the ruling Concordance party and its opponents. This period was marked by electoral fraud, persecution of political opponents, and government corruption generally. The key scandal of the era centered on CHADE (\"Companía Hispano Argentina de Electricidad\"), a supplier of electricity, whose bribery of officials was so transparent that the recipients of the bribes were known as \"chadístas.\" Another widely reported case at the time was that of the President (Speaker) of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies, Juan Kaiser, who resigned in 1940 following revelations that he had profited from the sale of of Army land in the upscale Buenos Aires suburb of El Palomar.\n\nLisandro de la Torre, who was a Senator in the 1930s, earned the nickname \"Prosecutor of the Nation\" for the investigation into the corruption-ridden Argentine beef trade that he spearheaded in 1935. During the investigation, a disciple of de la Torre's, Enzo Bordabehere, was murdered by Ramón Váldez Cora, who was believed to have been out to kill de la Torre himself.\n\nBrink Lindsey of the \"Wall Street Journal\" noted that before Perón took power (Perón ruled Argentina from 1946 to 1955, and then again from 1973 to 1974), Argentina's Supreme Court justices experienced little political tampering, and that \"at the beginning of Perón's first administration in 1946, Supreme Court justices averaged 12 years on the bench.\"\n\nIt was Argentine corruption, particularly that of Perón and his first wife, Eva Perón, that made it possible for Nazis such as Adolf Eichmann to settle in Argentina after World War II. Some historians have suggested that during her 1947 European tour Eva Perón may have opened secret Swiss bank accounts \"to stash funds and valuables she allegedly received from Nazis in exchange for Argentine passports and visas.\"\n\nSince 1946, wrote Lindsey, \"It's been downhill,\" with the Supreme Court \"reduced to a puppet of executive power.\" In 1950, writes one source, \"Argentina's postwar export boom tapered off, and inflation and corruption grew.\" Perón was overthrown in September 1955 by a military coup; but while around 2,000 Peronist officials were detained, only 167 were charged with any crime (corruption or otherwise) despite confessions extracted under duress, and ultimately none were convicted.\n\nOne of Perón's salient legacies was the rise of the CGT labor federation, which remained among the nation's most powerful institutions even after his overthrow. The CGT diversified their growing resources through investment banking via the \"Banco Sindical\", captive insurance, and real estate, such that by 1965 union dues accounted for only a third of the CGT's income. While these profits financed an array of generous benefits for the rank-and-file, a thriving balance sheet also increasingly engendered corruption among union leaders. Many solicited bribes from employers using the threat of strike action and one – Commercial Union leader Armando March – was convicted in 1969 of embezzling up to US$30 million from his union's accounts over the course of the decade.\n\nPerón returned to Argentina in 1973 and died in office a year later. His widow and successor, Isabel Martínez de Perón, was ousted in a March 1976 coup amid mounting political and economic chaos as well as congressional investigations into embezzlement charges of her own. She was indicted two months after the coup for the use in 1975 of around a million dollars from the \"Cruzada de Solidaridad\" charity fund to settle a probate dispute with the late Eva Duarte's family.\n\nThe Argentine Anticommunist Alliance (Triple A) death squad, which claimed 1,100 to 2,000 lives, reached the height of its influence during Mrs. Perón's tenure. Organized in 1973 by Perón's secretary, José López Rega, it was largely financed by funds embezzled from the Ministry of Social Welfare (to which López Rega was appointed Minister). Some Triple A squad leaders – notably Rodolfo Almirón, Aníbal Gordon, and Raúl Guglielminetti – perpetrated numerous high-profile ransom kidnappings in subsequent years with the cooperation of both criminal gangs such as the Puccio family and rogue elements in the police and intelligence services.\n\nThe Triple A's chief nemesis at the time, the far-left terrorist group Montoneros, claimed up to 1,000 lives from 1970 until their elimination in 1976. They also perpetrated a number of high-profile ransom kidnappings, notably that of Jorge and Juan Born in September 1974. The Born brothers, directors of what was then one of Argentina's largest conglomerates (Bunge y Born) paid US$60 million for their release in June 1975, a world record at the time. At least US$14 million of these proceeds were laundered by David Graiver, a real-estate developer. Graiver fled Argentina in 1975 and settled in Manhattan, from where he bought controlling stake in a variety of banks in the U.S. and elsewhere. He reportedly died in a plane crash near Acapulco in August 1976, however, leaving US$45 million in bad debts that resulted in the collapse of American Bank & Trust – at the time the 4th largest bank failure in U.S. history. District Attorney Robert Morgenthau was skeptical that Graiver died in the crash, and indicted Graiver for the failure of American Bank & Trust; Graiver's banks in Argentina and elsewhere also failed. New York Judge Arnold Fraiman ultimately ruled in January 1979 that Graiver was deceased, although he did so with reservations.\n\nArgentina was subsequently ruled for seven years by a right-wing dictatorship that oversaw a reign of terror. General Jorge Videla, who was dictator of Argentina from 1976 to 1981, presided over most of the Dirty War abuses, including extensive kidnapping and torture, thousands of forced disappearances, the murders of some 13,000 to 30,000 dissidents and political enemies and their families at secret detention camps, and the kidnapping and sale of around 500 babies born at the camps. Their property was often seized without due process via an agency created for the purpose known as CONAREPA (National Reparations Commission), which had liquidated an estimated US$200 million in absconded valuables by the time it was dissolved in 1983.\n\nThe Dirty War likewise served as cover for numerous ransom kidnappings, which continued even after the return of democracy in 1983 at the hand of a number of the same officers. The Director of Battalion 601, the Army Intelligence unit where most of these ransom kidnappings originated, was the hard-line General Guillermo Suárez Mason. His appointment as head of YPF in 1981 was followed by a period of severe mismanagement at the state oil concern. He installed many of his hard-line Army Intelligence colleagues in managerial posts, and they in turn diverted large quantities of fuel into the director's newly established company \"Sol Petróleo\" – a dummy corporation used by Suárez Mason and his appointees for embezzlement as well as to divert funds to the Contras and the fascist organization P2 (to which Suárez Mason belonged). YPF debts thus rose 142-fold during Suárez Mason's tenure, at the end of which in 1983 the company recorded a US$6 billion loss.\n\nThe 1976 coup ushered in what would become the costliest, most consequential wave of corruption in Argentina up to that point. The Economy Minister during most of the dictatorship, José Alfredo Martínez de Hoz, advanced twin anti-labor and financial deregulation policies that interrupted industrial development and upward social mobility while sharply increasing the nation's debt burden. Industrial output thus fell by 20%, real wages by at least 36%, and the public debt soared from US$8 billion to US$45 billion; by 1983, interest charges alone reached US$6.5 billion, creating a balance of payments crisis that weakened the economy for years.\n\nWhile chronic budget deficits (exacerbated during the dictatorship by growing tax evasion and military spending) accounted for around half the new debt, the remainder originated in banking deregulation enacted in 1977 and in a crawling peg enacted in 1978 that by 1980 made the peso one of the most overvalued currencies in the world. At least US$20 billion borrowed by private parties from foreign banks in just two years were wired to offshore banks by 1981, around US$15 billion of which was absorbed into the public debt the following year. The total cost of these bailouts rose to US$23 billion by the time they were curtailed in 1985. These costs included bailouts for two firms in which Martínez de Hoz was the chief shareholder: the insolvent CIADE electric utility (US$395 million) and steel maker Acindar (US$649 million). At least one Martínez de Hoz subordinate who objected to the CIADE bailout (Juan Carlos Casariego) joined the ranks of the disappeared in 1977.\n\nFollowing Judge Norberto Oyarbide's repeal in 2006 of the immunity that had shielded civilian officials in the dictatorship from prosecution (Martínez de Hoz was the highest ranking such civilian), the former Economy Minister was formally charged with ordering the extortion kidnapping of textile industrialists Federico and Miguel Gutheim in 1976, and banker Eduardo Saiegh in 1981. Martínez de Hoz returned to the world of banking in later years, and was fined US$5 million for his role in the US$170 million \"Banco General de Negocios\" failure in 2002. He was placed under house arrest in 2010, and died in 2013.\n\nThe dictatorship eventually called elections and stepped down, though not before further damaging Argentina's international standing with the disastrous Falklands War in 1982. The war itself became a backdrop for corruption when, at the height of the brief conflict in May 1982, a Patriotic Fund was organized for the benefit of the underequipped troops at the Falklands front. The May 9 Public Television telethon and other fundraising efforts yielded US$54 million in donations (including in gold) by the time the Argentine military surrendered five weeks later. Most donations never served their intended purpose, however: the cash and gold were mostly used by the Central Bank to offset the cost of the war; food and clothing donations were impeded from reaching the troops by the fighting; and a sizable percentage would remain unaccounted for. The only donor who successfully sued to recover his donation (vintner Renato Vaschetti) found that the three kilos of gold returned to him in 1984 had been stamped by a Swiss bank.\n\nVidela, convicted of homicides, kidnapping, torture, and other crimes, was sentenced to life in prison, was pardoned by President Menem in 1990. Menem's pardon was ruled unconstitutional on President Néstor Kirchner's initiative in 2006. Videla returned to prison in 2012, where he died the next year.\n\nAlthough Raúl Alfonsín, who was president from 1983 to 1989, won international recognition for human rights reforms, for initiating the Trial of the Juntas in 1985, and for fighting corruption, Argentine business and government continued to be marked by severe corruption during his period in office. The Central Bank was defrauded in 1986 by Banco Alas (the 13th largest in Argentina at the time) for US$110 million in export credits; and Alfonsín's National Customs Director, Juan Carlos Delconte, was sentenced to 10 years in prison in 1998 for aggravated smuggling a decade after it was discovered that he had been running a secret \"parallel customs\" system.\n\nCorruption allegations \"swirled\" throughout Carlos Menem's two terms as president (1989–99). Menem reportedly \"used the resources coming from privatizations to strengthen his inner circle and the Perónist corrupt clientelistic machine working at provincial levels.\" He \"allowed provincial and local governments to contract loans, contributing thus to an increase in the national debt that would contribute to the severe financial crisis years later, prompting the downfall of President De La Rúa.\"\n\nWhen the U.S. Ambassador to Argentina, Terence Todman, informed the Argentine government in 1990 that Menem advisor and in-law Emir Yoma had solicited a bribe from Swift, the U.S. meat packing firm, it led to a scandal known as Swiftgate. The scandal resulted in the resignations of Yoma, Economy Minister Antonio Érman González, and other officials in January 1991. The whistleblower, economist Guillermo Nielsen, had to move to Uruguay as a result of threats.\n\nA cocaine trafficking operation revealed in 1991 involved the shipment of large sums of drug money from New York City to Argentina, where it was laundered through the purchase of real estate, jewelry, or businesses, or diverted to Uruguay. Amira Yoma, who was at the center of the scandal, was Menem's secretary and sister-in-law, and was eventually cleared of all charges.\n\nMenem's Finance Minister, Domingo Cavallo, \"built his reputation on fighting corruption inside Government agencies and privatized industries,\" reported the \"New York Times\" in 1996. As a result, he was \"unpopular within the Government\" and \"sparred publicly\" with Menem.\n\nCavallo accused businessman Alfredo Yabrán in 1995 of being a sort of mafia boss who enjoyed political and judicial protection, who covertly ran several major transport and security companies including Correo OCA (which handled 30% of the Argentine postal market), and whose firms were involved in drugs and weapons trafficking and money laundering. After José Luis Cabezas, a photojournalist who was investigating Yabrán, was murdered in 1997, it was shown that Yabrán had connections at the highest levels of government and had bought Menem a mansion. Yabrán was found dead in 1998, a supposed suicide – although some observers questioned whether he had in fact killed himself, and some raised doubts as to whether the body was even his. However, there have been no sighting reports, and the DNA testings on the corpse confirmed that it was Yabrán.\n\nMaría Julia Alsogaray, the daughter of prominent conservative politician Álvaro Alsogaray, was appointed by Menem to oversee a number of the privatizations carried out from 1989 to 1991. Her role in these negotiations resulted in the sale of these state firms for a fraction of their stated book value.\n\nAlsogaray's tenure at Environment Secretariat, which was elevated to a cabinet-level post by the president in 1991, was also marked by a number of scandals. These included bid rigging for the refurbishment of the Haedo Palace (the secretariart's headquarters) and, particularly, of a 1993 plan to decontaminate the Riachuelo (a heavily polluted waterway along Buenos Aires' industrial southside). Alsogaray obtained a US$250 million loan from the IADB for the purpose; of this, however, US$150 million were destined to unrelated social projects, six million were lost in IADB fines, US$90 million were never allocated, and only one million was used for the actual cleanup.\n\nUpon stepping down when President Menem left office in 1999, financial transactions in her name totaling over US$200 million came under scrutiny, and Alsogaray was ultimately convicted of misappropriation of public funds in 2004. She was sentenced to three years in prison and served 21 months, thus becoming the only Menem administration official to serve time in prison. The statute of limitations expired on a number of other charges in 2013; but she was ultimately convicted to a second term in prison in February 2015 over the Haedo Palace charges.\n\nPrivatizations were viewed by the World Bank and the IMF in the 1990s as the preferred solution for developing countries such as Argentina to overcome the debt crisis. Accordingly, the Menem administration secured special powers from Congress, which enacted new legislation in shortly after his inaugural in 1989 authorizing the sale of some 300 state enterprises for US$24 billion. The proceeds were largely channeled toward repayment and monetization of the US$65 billion foreign debt (90% of which was found in a 1984 Economy Ministry audit to be fraudulent in nature). The US$31 billion in Brady Bonds issued for this purpose deepened the nation's debt crisis, however, because while Argentina serviced them at face value, the bonds typically traded at a steep discount.\n\nLarge public service rate increases, added to weak regulatory frameworks and constant renegotiation of concession contracts, brought outsized profits to the privatized companies. Between 1993 and 2000, the 200 largest companies in Argentina accumulated US$28.4 billion in profits, 56.8% of which were earned by privatized companies, and 26.3% by firms that had ties to those companies. Prices and wages were virtually frozen in Argentina from 1995 to 2001; but utility fees rose in line with the U.S. inflation rate, constituting an additional source of earnings for the newly privatized companies. The linking of public services fees charged in Argentina to the U.S. inflation rate enabled privatized companies to pocket US$9 billion by 2000. Additionally, privatized firms sent 70% of their earnings abroad while failing to pay the annual concession fees or to make all the investments stipulated by the contracts. The companies also imported large quantities of inputs and goods produced by associated firms, contracting heavy trade debts in dollars while violating a law that required them to prioritize Argentine products when making purchases.\n\nThe terms of the privatizations themselves often included lopsided benefits to the buyers. Some of the most notable cases included the ENTel state phone company, privatized in 1990 with US$180 million in land gifted to its buyers and at a further loss of US$250 million to the state; the Somisa state steel works, sold to Techint in 1992 for one seventh the book value of US$1 billion that Jorge Triaca, Alsogaray's predecessor at Somisa, had estimated; and Aerolíneas Argentinas, sold free of liabilities in 1990 (at a cost to Argentina of US$800 million) to Spain's Iberia, which indebted the airline by US$900 million over the next decade while selling off 29 of the 30 airplanes the firm owned when it was privatized.\n\nAllegations emerged in 1995 that IBM-Argentina had paid US$37m in kickbacks and bribes in 1993 to win a US$250m contract with the government-run Banco de la Nación. In 1998, arrest warrants were issued for four former IBM executives and Judge Angelo Bagnasco charged ten people with crimes, including a former president of Banco de la Nación and IBM-Argentina's former CEO and former COO. The New York Times noted in 1996 that six months after the initial revelations, the IBM scandal was \"still front page news in Argentina, as new disclosures emerge almost weekly, tainting the computer giant's reputation for honesty here.\" In 2000, IBM was ordered by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to pay a civil penalty of US$300,000. IBM was concurrently involved in no bid contracts awarded by Social Security Director Arnaldo Cisilino, which later resulted in the latter's indictment for fraud in 1998.\n\nMenem was finally arrested in 2001 \"for his alleged role in an illegal arms-shipments deal,\" involving the wartime export of weapons to Croatia and Ecuador in 1991 and 1996, only to be set free \"after five months of house arrest...by his hand-picked Supreme Court.\" After his release, Menem and his second wife, Cecilia Bolocco, moved to Chile, from which Argentine authorities sought to have him extradited to face embezzlement charges. After the arrest warrants were canceled, Menem and his family returned to Argentina in December 2004. The case of the 1995 Río Tercero explosion, which killed seven people and was believed by prosecutors to be linked to the Croatia/Ecuador arms sale scandal, was likewise closed in 2006 with no indictments.\n\nA 2008 settlement between Siemens and the U.S. government revealed that Menem administration officials had accepted about US$106 million in bribes from Siemens in exchange for being awarded a 1.2 billion-dollar National ID card and passport production contract in 1998, a violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.\n\nIn 2012, Menem was ordered to stand trial for obstruction of justice in an investigation of a 1994 bombing of a Jewish community center in which 85 people died; he was accused of covering up evidence connecting the attack to Hezbollah and Iran. In 2013, after an Appeals Court ruling found Menem guilty of smuggling weapons to Ecuador and Croatia, he was sentenced to seven years in prison. As a Senator, however, he was immune from incarceration, and was instead placed under house arrest. Oscar Camilión, who had been his Defense Minister, was sentenced to five and a half years.\n\nFernando de la Rúa, President of Argentina from 1999 to 2001, was investigated in 2006, along with several members of his administration, on charges of financial irregularities and malfeasance during his presidency allegedly involving such international banks as Credit Suisse, First Boston Corporation, HSBC Bank Argentina, JP Morgan Securities, and Salomon Smith Barney.\n\nThe charges pertained to the 2001 Megaswap negotiated between Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo and said banks. Cavallo attempted to avoid a bond default by offering bondholders a swap, whereby longer-term, higher-interest bonds would be exchanged for bonds coming due in 2010. The Megaswap was accepted by most bondholders (particularly banks, which used the Megaswap to shed rapidly depreciating bonds), and delayed up to US$30 billion in payments that would have been due by 2005; but it also added US$38 billion in interest payments in the out years, and of the US$82 billion in bonds that eventually had to be restructured (triggering a wave of holdout lawsuits), 60% were issued during the 2001 megaswap. He and President de la Rúa were indicted in 2006 for malfeasance in public office related to the Megaswap, but were cleared of all charges in 2014.\n\nDe la Rúa was also indicted in 2008 on a charge of \"aggravated active bribery.\" He was accused in October 2000 of having bribed senators that April for their vote in favor of a labor flexibilization law requested by the IMF. Several senators were also indicted on charges of accepting the bribes. He was also indicted on homicide charges in 2007, on the grounds that he had ordered attacks on demonstrators in 2001; de la Rúa escaped conviction in all these cases.\n\nNéstor Kirchner, then governor of the Province of Santa Cruz, and his wife, Congresswoman Cristina Kirchner, \"intensely and successfully lobbied President Carlos Menem in 1992 to sell the state oil company YPF\". Upon its privatization in 1993, the federal government paid Santa Cruz Province US$654 million in long-outstanding royalties owed by YPF (minus a US$100 million tax debt). Governor Kirchner transferred the funds to Credit Suisse and other foreign banks in 2001. Kirchner became president in 2003, and pledged to repatriate the funds. Amid delays, a civil suit was filed against Kirchner in 2004; but it was dismissed in 2005 by the judge, who was Kirchner's nephew-in-law. A 2006 inquiry found that of the US$520 million fund, US$390 million remained in Credit Suisse. Santa Cruz Governor Daniel Peralta ultimately announced in 2008 that US$554 million had been repatriated.\n\nOne of the cables made public by Wikileaks noted that while Néstor Kirchner based his 2003 campaign largely on an anti-corruption platform the government had in fact placed less emphasis on efforts to combat corruption since 2004.\n\nAnother case with foreign origins is that of Guido Alejandro Antonini Wilson, a self-identified member of the entourage of Hugo Chávez, who arrived in Argentina in August 2007 on a private flight paid for by Argentine and Venezuelan state officials. Wilson was carrying US$790,550 in cash, which he did not declare and which the police seized on arrival. A few days later Wilson, a Venezuelan-American and a close friend of Chávez's, was a guest at a signing ceremony involving Kirchner and Chávez at the Casa Rosada. He was later arrested on money laundering and contraband charges, and it was established that the cash was to have been delivered to the Kirchners as a clandestine contribution to Fernández's campaign chest.\n\nThe incident led to a scandal and what \"Bloomberg News\" called \"an international imbroglio,\" with the U.S. accusing five men of being secret Chávez agents whose mission was to cover up the attempt to deliver the cash.\n\nIn 2007, Federal Judge Guillermo Montenegro was leading an investigation into bribes allegedly paid by Swedish firm Skanska to former government officials working on a gas pipeline project, and Carlos Stornelli was serving as prosecutor on the case, when both men received job offers that were viewed as motivated by a government attempt to stall the investigation. Montenegro received an offer from Buenos Aires Mayor-elect Mauricio Macri to join his cabinet as Security and Justice Minister, while Vice President offered Stornelli a job as Security Minister in Buenos Aires Province. If both men accepted the offers, the result would be a year-long halt in the investigation and prosecution of the Skansa case.\n\nAn April 2008 cable later made public by Wikileaks noted that the U.S. Ambassador to Argentina, Earl Anthony Wayne, had met with Argentina's National Ombudsman Dr. Eduardo Mondino, who had told him about \"a case he is investigating involving possible corruption related to commissions being charged on government contractual transactions, the proceeds of which are being deposited in a U.S. bank.\"\n\nArmy Chief of Staff Roberto Bendini resigned in September 2008 in the wake of an Appeals Court's decision to proceed with charges against him for \"peculado,\" or the improper diversion of funds. Bendini had been promoted over more senior generals by Kirchner despite Defense Minister Nilda Garré's apparent lack of confidence in him. Bendini was described as having operated a \"parallel\" bank account into which he diverted large sums of government money.\n\nCongressman Francisco de Narváez, a senior member of the center-right Federal Peronist caucus, was discovered in 2009 to have placed numerous phone calls from his cell phone to Mario Segovia, the \"king of ephedrine\" (whose use as a recreational drug is illegal in Argentina). Subpoenaed by Judge Federico Faggionato Márquez, de Narváez initially announced he would resign from Congress, but later recanted, claiming a ranch hand in his employ used his phone to place the calls in question. Faggionato Márquez's successor, Judge Adrián González Charvay, dismissed the case in 2010.\n\nHe similarly came under scrutiny after declaring a 2008 taxable income of 670,000 pesos (around US$200,000) against 70 million pesos in exemptions, 30 million in \"inter vivos\" gifts to his children, and another 30 million in personal expenses. Accordingly, his tax liability was estimated to be at least 100 times what he actually paid, and in 2010 a tax lien was placed on his assets for 87 million pesos (US$22 million at the time). Another significant case – failure on the part of the La Rural-Ogden group (of which de Narváez is a partner) to repay a US$106 million loan from the Bank of the Province of Buenos Aires – expired via statute of limitations in 2013.\n\nOne of the Wikileaks cables mentions an investigation of members of the Kirchner administration and its business allies in Santa Cruz province. The investigation focused on the purchase and resale, at massive profits, of large tracts of public land by nearly fifty top level politicians and businesspeople during Néstor Mendez's final years as the mayor of El Calafate, from 1995 to 2007. As of March 2011, the investigation into this case was being directed by prosecutor Natalia Mercado, the Kirchners' niece.\n\nIn a 2011 article entitled \"Corruption in Argentina\", \"The Economist\" noted that Shared Dreams, the \"social-work arm\" of the respected Association of Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, had become mired in corruption. Granted $45m of public funds to build housing for the poor, the group hired Meldorek, a company that was owned by Sergio Schoklender, who had been imprisoned for 14 years for murdering his parents, and that, according to other contractors, \"was charging twice the market rate for homebuilding.\" After Schoklender left the firm, the courts began \"investigating allegations of fraud, money-laundering and illegal enrichment.\" \"The Economist\" noted that President Fernández's closeness to the Association of Mothers risked \"becoming an embarrassment\".\n\nThe Argentine Securities and Exchange Commission (CNV) charged former Siemens executives with bribing two consecutive Argentine presidents – Carlos Menem and Fernando de la Rúa – with $100 million to secure a contract for a $1 billion national ID card.\" Kurtz concluded. \"If the football federation launders money, if 13,000 police officers can be arrested for crimes, and if 60% of Argentines in a national survey believe they can pay law enforcement officials to avoid infractions, this society's problems might run deeper than mere technocratic adjustment.\"\n\nIn April 2013, Ralph Lauren paid $1.6 million to the SEC to settle allegations that it bribed Argentine customs officials $580,000 in cash between 2004 and 2009 \"to improperly obtain paperwork necessary for goods to clear customs; permit clearance of items without the necessary paperwork and/or the clearance of prohibited items; and on occasion, to avoid inspection entirely.\"\n\nCivic watchdog group Poder Ciudadano ('Citizen Power') expressed concern over the Buenos Aires Public Contracts Law passed November 2013 by the Buenos Aires City Legislature and urged that it be vetoed by Mayor Mauricio Macri, who promoted and signed the bill. The concern was that the laws, dealing with municipal government contracts, would reduce transparency and eliminate control mechanisms, thus promoting corruption. Poder Ciudadano similarly denounced the municipal waste management bidding process and service (20% of the city's budget) for its lack of oversight in a 2013 report.\n\nMayor Macri, elected to the post in 2007, privatized numerous city services and made unprecedented use of subcontractors in the construction of municipal public works; expenditures on city contracts reached US$500 million in 2013 out of a municipal budget of US$8.8 billion. Some of the most controversial such contracts include those for the construction in 2013 of the Metrobus bus lanes on 9 de Julio Avenue, which cost 166 million pesos (US$30 million at the time) for of lanes when routes completed in 2012 had cost 2.5-5.3 million pesos (US$0.5-1.1 million) per kilometer.\n\nA similar controversy arose with Macri's purchase in 2011 of 178,000 school netbooks for US$274 million from PRIMA S.A., a subsidiary of the Clarín Group (the country's most influential media group). The contract yielded PRIMA a price premium of US$185 million, based on a similar purchase that year by the UTN. Documents related to the contract were subpoenaed in 2013 amid a money laundering investigation involving JP Morgan Chase's Argentine offices; PRIMA is one of 15 Clarín Group subsidiaries included in the JP Morgan case. Freedom of information laws in Argentina allow access to all public contracts records; but as of 2013, out of 500 such requests filed at Buenos Aires City Hall, fewer than 10% were answered.\n\nThe Argentine Revenue Administration (AFIP) called for the printing house Ciccone Calcográfica to declare bankruptcy in July 2010, but two months later, after Ciccone received 2.3 million pesos (US$600,000) from the Old Fund, a shell corporation whose representative, Alejandro Vandenbroele, thereupon became president of Ciccone, the AFIP rescinded its request and, on orders from then Minister of Economy Amado Boudou, allowed Ciccone time to refinance its debts. After Laura Muñoz, Vandenbroele's ex-wife, publicly accused him of being a front for Boudou, the latter denied the charge, but in April 2012 a judicial investigation revealed that Vandenbroele had paid the rent for a flat belonging to Boudou. Members of Congress tried unsuccessfully to impeach Boudou. In September 2013, a Federal Court permitted Boudou to file for a dismissal of charges. Despite the scandal, the Central Bank of Argentina commissioned Ciccone in March 2012 to print banknotes.\n\nA massive and complicated scandal that emerged piecemeal over the course of much of 2013 focused on the Kirchners' relationship to public-works contractor Lázaro Báez, an longtime friend and business associate of theirs whose companies had been awarded many public works contracts during both Kirchners' presidencies. Journalist Jorge Lanata, on successive episodes of his highly rated Sunday-evening public-affairs program \"Periodismo para todos\" (\"Journalism for All\"), served up numerous allegations regarding Báez and Fernández.\n\nLanata claims that Báez would appear to have funneled taxpayer money from his government contracts back to the Kirchners in the form of rent payments for rooms at hotels owned by the couple. The official books of Báez-owned companies showed that they had spent millions of dollars \"to reserve a third of the Kirchners' hotel rooms, whether the rooms were used or not\". The state-owned airline Aerolíneas Argentinas \"guaranteed another third of the rooms, providing a steady flow of profits to the presidential couple's private businesses\".\n\nLanata also covered the fact that Báez, who was described as monopolizing all public works in Santa Cruz province, had bought several estates in Santa Cruz for US$28 million in 2007, allegedly having been informed that the province intended to build hydroelectric dams on the land. In addition, Lanata's program aired hidden-camera footage in which a Báez associate, Leonardo Fariña, admitted to involvement in a money-laundering network that handled proceeds from government corruption. Fariña had deposited 55 million euros of Báez's funds in Switzerland and said that Kirchner knew all about Báez's operations and was a partner in all of them.\n\nFurthermore, Lanata revealed that a vault holding cash and sensitive documents was emptied and refitted as a wine cellar. One of the workers who took part in the conversion of the vault into a wine cellar took photos to protect himself, fearing he was involved in an illegal activity. Lanata sardonically congratulated Báez, who only a few years earlier had been a low-level bank employee, for amassing a fortune quicker than Henry Ford or Bill Gates.\n\nLanata also devoted some attention on his program to the Argentine judges and prosecutors who were reluctant to take the case, since it had been transferred to Río Gallegos courts, which were known to have Kirchner ties.\n\nOn an August 2013 episode of his program, Lanata charged that Fernández had stayed in the Seychelles, a tax haven, in January 2013 as part of a money-laundering operation involving Báez. A week later Lanata hosted on his program Nella De Luca, a Venezuelan journalist who claimed to have stayed in the same hotel as Fernández in the Seychelles at that time. Shortly after the program aired, the Casa Rosada issued a statement to the effect that Fernández's plane had made a \"technical stop\" in the Seychelles.\n\nAfter Lanata's report about Báez and the Seychelles, Oscar Parrilli, Secretary General of the Presidency, called Lanata a \"media hit man,\" in response to which Lanata said on CNN that he would take the matter to court. At one point, the government chose to blunt the impact of Lanata's show by scheduling evening matches between two very popular soccer teams, Boca Juniors and River Plate, directly opposite the Sunday-night program. Initially, more viewers watched Lanata's show than the soccer matches. His ratings later declined, however.\n\nCarlos Zannini, the Executive Legal Advisor for the Kirchner administration, was accused in 2012 of several charges, including embezzlement of public funds, money laundering, and corruption. From 2003 to 2011 his personal wealth was reported to have increased by nearly thirty-eightfold (in pesos). A complaint was filed to this effect with Judge Norberto Oyarbide; the case was suspended for a time and only recently was the complaint further pursued.\n\nIt has been reported that members of Kirchner's administration and of the government have stalled the case and interfered in many ways. For instance, when Oyarbide ordered an investigative raid on Zannini's property to attain evidence, Carlos Liuzzi, a presidential secretary and subordinate of Zannini's, reportedly called him and ordered him to cancel the raid and offered him a bribe. Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich was asked to comment on the accusation, although no clear answers have been given. Press Secretary Oscar Parrilli stated that such accusations were false and that no call was ever made. Oyarbide, however, has publicly stated that he did receive a call from Liuzzi asking him to halt the raid.\n\nSeveral parties announced in 2013, under the slogan \"No more to corruption\" (\"Nunca más a la corrupción\"), that they would propose that the Argentinian parliament create a bicameral commission to investigate government corruption. Margarita Stolbizer, a candidate in the 2013 elections, released a \"Corruption Report\" in August 2013, saying: \"Corruption is dramatically black, because it is a corruption that has cost lives.\" Another candidate, Ricardo Alfonsin, submitted a set of proposals for increased transparency.\n\nQuoting Pope Francis's description of corruption as \"a weed of our times that infects politics, economy, and society,\" the editors of \"La Nación\" accused Argentinian officials in October 2013 of \"embezzlement, bribery, extortion, illicit enrichment, negotiations incompatible with the exercise of public functions, concealment and laundering...influence peddling and misappropriation of public funds,\" and blamed official corruption for 194 deaths at a dance club in 2004, 51 deaths in a train crash in Once in 2012, and 60 deaths in floods in 2013. The newspaper also attributed deficiencies in public access to housing and health care to various forms of corruption, ranging from outright embezzlement to the placement of medical aircraft at the service of officials instead of patients.\n\nIn a December 2013 editorial triggered by Argentina's poor performance in that year's corruption ratings by Transparency International, the editors of \"La Nación\" stated that the Argentine government \"encourages lying, concealment and illegality.\" The newspaper's editors complained about the \"very high level of impunity\" for corrupt officials, and called on the government to promote a \"culture of transparency\" which would make possible a \"culture of legality.\" \"La Nación\" has been at odds with the federal government over an injunction issued in October 2003 that allowed it to continue in subsequent years to claim an expired corporate tax credit on payroll taxes paid; were the injunction to be lifted, a US$50 million tax debt, including interest, would result.\n\nThere were 25 public cases in 2012 in which former and current government officials were accused of illicit enrichment. In September 2013, Ricardo Jaime, who had been Kirchner's Transportation Secretary, was given a six-month suspended sentence on charges of withholding evidence in a case of unjust enrichment. Ombudsman Eduardo Mondino told U.S. Ambassador Earl Anthony Wayne in 2011 about allegations that the Argentine government charged a 15% commission on all private international contracts, and wanted Wayne to help find out whether the earnings were being deposited in a U.S. bank. A German CEO also told Planning Minister Julio De Vido that one of the latter's aides had asked him for a bribe.\n\nAs an example of Argentine political corruption, Brink Lindsey of the \"Wall Street Journal\" has noted that Tucumán Province's public sector has been used almost exclusively to enrich politicians and fund patronage jobs. Elected officials are alleged to embezzle enough funds to create fortunes for themselves,with the annual salary of provincial legislators amounting to roughly $300,000. Such corruption, stated Lindsey, is common elsewhere in Argentina. In Formosa Province, Argentina's poorest, roughly half of the workforce is on the government's payroll but many only show up to work once a month.\n\nSuch corruption, according to Lindsey, contributed to Argentina's financial crisis. He noted that while many blame the free market for Argentina's woes, it is rather the control economics in place that have caused such problems.\n\nThe Secretariat of Intelligence (SI) was established by President Juan Perón in 1946 as the State Information Coordination Secretariat (CIDE); it was renamed SIDE in 1958, and SI in 2001. Its first director was Rodolfo Freude, one of the principal figures in the ODESSA Nazi post-war ratline. Since its inception, the SI was responsible for spying on politicians, journalists, intellectuals and trade unionists; gathering information that even today remains \"classified\". As both the Cold War and leftist political violence intensified in the early 1970s, however, the SIDE would acquire a prominent role in the persecution, murder, and disappearance of thousands of people during Argentina's Dirty War in the mid 1970s.\n\nThe CIA contributed to this policy with intelligence training and technical assistance, including arson techniques for \"clean\" fires whose origin was made difficult to detect. This collaboration, as well as similar arrangements with other South American dictatorships, was known as Operation Condor, and was formally implemented in 1975. SIDE worked closely with the Triple A right-wing death squad initially, and with the Argentine Army Intelligence unit, Battalion 601, after the March 1976 coup. SIDE operated the \"Automotores Orletti\" detention facility in Buenos Aires in which around 300 people were killed, with the victims' property distributed among the torturers. Two of its managers, SIDE officer Aníbal Gordon and Battalion 601 officer Raúl Guglielminetti, had also belonged to the Triple A and later perpetrated numerous ransom kidnappings. The \"Gordon Group\", as it was known, worked with the cooperation of mafiosi such as the Puccio family, SIDE colleagues including Alejandro Encino (whose father-in-law, General Otto Paladino, headed SIDE during the dictatorship), General Eduardo Cabanillas (who headed the 2nd Army Corps in the 1990s), and François Chiappe (a convicted bank thief and French Connection heroin trafficker).\n\nPresident Raúl Alfonsín, elected to succeed the dictatorship in 1983, sought to demilitarize SIDE by appointing its first civilian director and ending its partnership with Battalion 601. Some SIDE agents implicated in human rights abuses, such as Luis Sarmiento, fled the country. Others, however, made attempts to infiltrate sensitive government posts – notably Raúl Guglielminetti, who in 1985 was discovered to have infiltrated the president's security detail.\n\nThe most serious case of intelligence agency wrongdoing involved banker Osvaldo Sivak. Sivak had been kidnapped for ransom by Battalion 601 agents in 1979, and again in 1985; his buried corpse was found two years later. A subsequent investigation by Federal Police Chief Juan Ángel Pirker revealed that Sivak had been kidnapped and murdered by former Federal Police captains who had worked for both Battalion 601 and SIDE during the dictatorship. Because Sivak was a top fundraiser and close personal friend of President Alfonsín, the murder was interpreted as a threat against Alfonsín and his efforts to reform the two agencies. The \"Captains' Band,\" as it became known, was responsible for numerous other high-profile ransom kidnappings from 1978 to 1991, including those of Karina Werthein and Mauricio Macri. Like their military and police counterparts, intelligence officers implicated in the Dirty War benefited from Full Stop and Due Obedience laws signed by Alfonsín in 1987, and pardons signed by Menem in 1990. Many, however, were convicted in the decade after the repeal of amnesty in 2003 to prison terms ranging from 6 to 25 years for criminal conspiracy.\n\nAnother linchpin of official corruption in Argentina is the lack of public access to government information. There is a 2003 decree that provides for such access, but it applies only to executive entities and companies that receive state funds. Transparency International has called for a federal law that would increase transparency and accountability.\n\nNumerous large bank fraud and asset stripping cases have taken place in Argentina since banking deregulation was enacted by the last dictatorship in 1977, most of which led to the insolvency of the banks involved; some were resolved by the Central Bank, but at considerable cost to public coffers. The most notable early case was probably that of the BIR, whose US$3 billion Ponzi scheme collapse in March 1980 triggered a nationwide financial crisis. Its chairman, José Trozzo, shared ownership of the bank with among others Admiral Emilio Massera (the second most powerful figure in the military junta during its first three years); Trozzo evaded justice by fleeing to Mexico, leaving the bank's last director, Raúl Piñero Pacheco, to pay US$20 million in Central Bank penalties.\n\nOther significant such cases include Banco Internacional (1981), which collapsed under US$1.2 billion in securities fraud orchestrated by its chairman, Rómulo Seitún, and led to the bankruptcy of the largest agroindustrial firm in Argentina at the time, Sasetrú; Banco Alas, the nation's 13th largest when it was shuttered in 1986 for defrauding the Central Bank; Banco Mayo (1998), whose US$200 million collapse led to a prison term for former DAIA president Rubén Beraja; Banco República (1999), whose chairman Raúl Moneta obtained an US$89 million rediscount from the Central Bank four days before his bank collapsed and had a US$26 million tax debt condoned despite fleeing the country; and Banco Velox (2002), whose owners, the Peirano Basso brothers, transferred US$800 million in deposits to a Cayman Islands offshore bank, leading to the insolvency of Velox, Banco Alemán (Paraguay), and Banco Montevideo (Uruguay). With the exception of Rubén Beraja (who is Jewish), the chairmen involved in each of these bank collapses were members of the right-wing Roman Catholic group, Opus Dei.\n\nAnother major category of corruption has been money laundering. In a March 2009 cable, the U.S. Embassy in Buenos Aires reported on the controversy over Argentina's new tax amnesty law and allegations by opposition politicians that it facilitates money laundering. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) had told the Argentine press that \"It's not enough to have a good law, you have to apply it.\" In 2011, however, Transparency International commended Argentina for a law enacted that year that recognizes money laundering as an offense in and of itself and prescribes substantial punishments, and in October 2014 the Financial Action Task Force removed Argentina from its \"gray list\" and noted the government's improving control over money laundering.\n\nThe seriousness of the issue was again highlighted, however, by a February 2014 fire at a southside Buenos Aires corporate records warehouse owned by U.S. based Iron Mountain Incorporated. The fire, which killed nine firemen and a civil defense officer, followed charges by the AFIP revenue bureau that Iron Mountain South America Ltd. and Iron Mountain Chile S.A. are front companies operating from tax havens. Money laundering investigations were subsequently initiated against 24 firms (out of 642) with documentation stored at the warehouse. Similar fires had recently taken place in four Iron Mountain facilities in North America and Europe.\n\nTax evasion has long saddled Argentina's public finances, shifting the burden to the middle and working classes by way of high value-added taxes (which are easier to collect). Improvements in enforcement since the 1990s have abated the problem from its peak in the 1980s, when fully half of all tax liabilities (and most income taxes) were evaded. Nevertheless, Hernán Arbizu, a former JP Morgan Chase executive, testified in 2013 and 2014 on how Argentine firms and wealthy Argentine clients still evade billions of dollars in taxes using local banks and exchange houses. Among those implicated were the Clarín Media Group; energy firm Petrobras Argentina; electricity distributor Edesur; the late María Amalia Lacroze de Fortabat and her executor, Congressman Alfonso Prat-Gay; former YPF head Sebastián Eskenazi; and the late television host Bernardo Neustadt.\n\nDuring his testimony, he described how he helped clients move funds to offshore accounts (mainly in Switzerland), using private banking offices and legal loopholes. He stated that around US$85 billion had been transferred from Argentina to around 4,000 such accounts as part of a massive scheme that began in 2000, resulting in tax evasion losses of 60 billion pesos (US$7 billion); with the sole exception of Banco Credicoop, all 60 major banks in Argentina, including several local offices of foreign banks, had been involved.\n\nAnother similar case was that of HSBC Bank Argentina, which the 2014 SwissLeaks scandal revealed to have facilitated tax evasion on US$3.8 billion by over 4,000 local account holders. Accordingly, the AFIP revenue bureau had the courts issue an international arrest warrant on Miguel Abadi, whose GEMS fund accounted for at least US$1.4 billion of this total.\n\nThe larger media conglomerates in Argentina, particularly the Clarín Group and \"La Nación\", oppose anti-trust laws passed during Cristina Kirchner's administration to replace media ownership laws enacted in 1980 under the last dictatorship. Media consolidation has become the greater threat to freedom of the press in Argentina and elsewhere in Latin America, according to UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Expression Frank LaRue, and he, the IFJ, and a majority of journalist respondents in a 2011 Argentine Journalism Forum (FOPEA) survey consider the new law a partial or even substantial progress compared to the previous one.\n\nThe shared ownership by the Clarín Group, La Nación, and the Argentine Government in Papel Prensa (the largest producer of newsprint in Argentina), has also been marked by controversy. The administration alleged that the sale of Papel Prensa by the family of the late David Graiver in 1976 was done so by illicit means and in collusion with the dictatorship. The government presented a report in 2010 claiming that during the Dirty War, while being coerced, the Graivers were forced to sell the newsprint maker at a bargain price. Another source of contention between the government and its private partners in Papel Prensa was a preferential pricing scale that allowed \"La Nación\" and the Clarín Group's numerous dailies to buy newsprint at a 25% discount while other dailies were charged prices based on expensive Chilean imports; the practice was made illegal in 2010.\n\nThe Clarín Group and \"La Nación\" are also at odds with federal regulators over a 2008 case of securities fraud by the Clarín Group against pension funds holding Clarín stock, and the continued use since 2003 of an expired corporate tax credit on payroll taxes (worth over US$50 million) in the case of \"La Nación\".\n\nIn late 2008, the then Minister of Health of Argentina, Graciela Ocaña, informed U.S. Ambassador Anthony Wayne that pharmaceutical corruption was one of many major problems afflicting the country's health-care system. Citing allegations of price manipulation and fraudulent products, Ocaña called for greater transparency on the part of the agency responsible for distributing drugs. Also, the Argentinian government was purchasing \"fraudulent medicines\" from pharmaceutical manufacturers that had contributed to Fernández's 2007 election campaign. Ocaña said it was a challenge to effectively run her ministry when the money allocated for public health was in fact going to \"other places.\"\n\nA 2013 report by the U.S. State Department indicates that the Argentine Government does not actively produce or encourage the production of narcotics. Nevertheless, \"several security force members, including high-ranking officers,\" were accused in 2012 of cocaine and marijuana trafficking on a grand scale or protecting trafficking schemes.\n\nAccording to one 2013 source, the epicenter of the country's drug trade is the city of Rosario. There were minimal import restrictions on these \"precursor chemicals,\" including ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, which are used to produce drugs like cocaine and methamphetamine, and the Kirchner and Fernández administrations were loath to impose restrictions on pharmaceuticals, since pharmaceutical companies were among the Kirchners' largest campaign donors.\n\nAnother area in which there is extensive corruption in Argentina is political financing. There is an insufficient degree of transparency and accountability, and although recently passed legislation forbids donations by companies to political campaigns, there are ways for businesses to skirt the law and cover non-campaign expenses by politicians and parties. Incumbents also enjoy a decided advantage.\n\nCampaign finance corruption may originate abroad, as well. NML Capital Limited, the Cayman Islands-based vulture fund demanding US$832 million for Argentine bonds purchased for US$49 million in the secondary market in 2008, was found in 2013 to be the principal backer of the NGO run by Congresswoman Laura Alonso of the right-wing PRO; this NGO – and Congresswoman Alonso – had been vocally lobbying for NML up to that point.\n\nArgentine courts \"are slow, inefficient, and vulnerable to corruption and executive branch influence,\" according to a 2013 Heritage Foundation report. The general perception is that many members of Argentina's judiciary are political appointees who enjoy a close relationship with the executive branch. Another major problem is that the judicial system is plagued by inefficiency, delays, and insufficient administrative support. It is a common practice for government officials to offer political jobs to judges in charge of important cases, thereby derailing the cases.\n\nThe Centre for the Study and Prevention of Economic Crimes has noted that corruption cases in Argentina take an average of 14 years to be resolved. Out of 750 cases tried during a certain period, only 15 resulted in convictions. This is said to be the result of Fernández's \"neuter[ing]\" of \"government oversight,\" which she has accomplished by \"giving auditing posts to cronies compromised by conflicts of interest.\"\n\n\"La Nación\" accused the government in October 2013 of seeking \"to impose an absurd judicial reform\" designed largely \"to guarantee the impunity of those in power.\" The newspaper also accused the government of amending the \"reform\" of the civil and commercial codes in order to enhance the impunity of public officials, \"thus distorting the original initiative.\"\n\nIn November 2013, the Court of Criminal Appeals canceled the prosecution of 25 individuals who had been government ministers and high officials under Menem and who had been accused of accepting inappropriate bonuses. The prosecution was canceled on the grounds that the defendants' right of due process had been violated. Among the defendants were former Labor Minister José Armando Caro Figueroa, former Justice Minister Elias Jassan, former Interior Secretary Adelina D'Alessio de Viola, and former Secretary of Trade and Investment Carlos Sánchez. The case was remanded to a lower court.\n\nIn July 2013, 72% of Argentines thought that corruption in their country had increased during the previous year, with politicians and parties identified as the most corrupt institutions.\n\nThousands of Argentines held a street protest against their government in Buenos Aires in November 2012, waving signs that read: \"Stop the wave of Argentines killed by crime, enough with corruption and say no to constitutional reform.\" \"The Guardian\" noted that Argentines were plagued by \"increasingly bold home robberies, in which armed bands tie up families until victims hand over the cash that many Argentines have kept at home since the government froze savings accounts and devalued the currency in 2002. The vast majority of the crimes are never solved, while the death toll is rising.\"\n\nNationwide demonstrations on April 18, 2013, focused largely on corruption and \"the sense of official impunity.\" \"A giant wave of peaceful protesters took to the streets of Argentina,\" reported \"The Guardian\", \"banging spoons against kitchen pots, in a rally that attracted even larger crowds than a similar mass demonstration in November against corruption, inflation and insecurity under Cristina Fernández de Kirchner.\" Organized via Facebook and Twitter, the rally \"was fuelled by anger against judicial overhaul being pushed through Congress that could give the government virtual control of the courts\" and came in the wake of \"allegations that businessmen laundered tens of millions of euros obtained from public work contracts through offshore accounts.\" Protesters carried signs reading \"Argentina, wake up!\" and \"Corrupt Cristina.\"\n\nIn 2011, Wikileaks cables revealed that diplomats from the United States, Germany, Spain, and Finland had grown concerned about the increasing levels of corruption. In May 2008, for example, the Secretary General of the Spanish cabinet, Bernardino León was quoted in a Wikileaks cable as saying that Spanish companies doing business in Argentina were growing concerned at the populist sentiments and polarization of the Argentine government, as well as the corruption level among the Kirchner network. In February 2008, German ambassador Wolf Rolf Schumacher also expressed concern with the Cristina Kirchner administration's attitude towards corruption.\n\nA great number of the Wikileaks cables indicate that the U.S. Embassy in Argentina has been actively involved in anti-corruption efforts on the part of Argentinian officials and others in Argentina. The Spanish newspaper \"El País\" reported in 2011 that \"official corruption in Argentina worries the U.S., whose embassy in Buenos Aires sent to the State Department over a hundred confidential dispatches over several years warning about the fragility of the judicial system in the South American country and about the impunity of those who commit crimes.\"\n\nThe principal government entities whose role is to fight official corruption are the Auditor General 's Office and the Anti-Corruption Office. There are similar entities in each province and in the Buenos Aires municipal government.\n\nTransparency International has complained that such agencies as the Anti-Corruption Office, the Auditor General's Office, and the General Comptrollers Office \"need a more robust mandate to hold public officials to account\" and should \"be independent and more proactive in corruption investigations.\"\n\nLeaked Wikileaks cables revealed that in 2007, Dr. Abel Fleitas Ortiz de Rozas, then head of Argentina's Office of Anticorruption, told the US ambassador of the challenges Argentina faces in combatting corruption, among them a perceived tolerance of corruption, no transparency, and an ineffective legal system.\n\nA May 2009 report noted that Argentina's lead District Attorney of the National Prosecutor's Office for Administrative Investigations, Manuel Garrido, initiated more than a hundred investigations, but during a more than five-year period obtained no convictions. After his March 2011 resignation, Garrido was replaced by Julio Vitobello, a close friend to the Kirchners known for arranging soccer matches at their residence. Among the cases in which Garrido had been involved were Guillermo Moreno alleged manipulation of the Argentine statistical agency, INDEC; the Skanska scandal wherein the company was billing false invoice; a case of a literal bag of cash being discovered in the office of Felisa Miceli; the allegations of Néstor Kirchner's and Daniel Marx's illicit enrichment; a contract for electrical cable installations being one by a company with close ties to the Kirchners; and contracts for rail repair being won by Ricardo Jaime, the Transport Secretary.\n\nGarrido had also filed criminal complaints against Claudio Uberti, who had been implicated in the 'Valijagate' scandal wherein Hugo Chávez was alleged to have funneled Venezuelan money for Cristina Kirchner's campaign, and Jorge Simeonoff for alleged collusion in contract negotiations for highway construction jobs.\n"}
{"id": "14037809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14037809", "title": "Cost Accounting Standards", "text": "Cost Accounting Standards\n\nCost Accounting Standards (popularly known as CAS) are a set of 19 standards and rules promulgated by the United States Government for use in determining costs on negotiated procurements. CAS differs from the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in that FAR applies to substantially all contractors, whereas CAS applies primarily to the larger ones.\n\nIn 1970, Congress established the original Cost Accounting Standards Board (CASB) to 1) promulgate cost accounting standards designed to achieve uniformity and consistency in the cost accounting principles followed by defense contractors and subcontractors in excess of $100,000 and 2) establish regulations to require defense contractors and subcontractors, as a condition of contracting, to disclose in writing their cost accounting practices, to follow the disclosed practices consistently and to comply with promulgated cost accounting standards. After adopting 19 standards, the original CASB was dissolved on September 30, 1980; the standards, though, remained active.\n\nHowever, CASB was revived in 1988 within the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP). The current CASB consists of five members: the OFPP Administrator (who serves as Chairman) and one member from the United States Department of Defense (this position is held by the Director of the Defense Contract Audit Agency), the General Services Administration, industry, and the private sector.\n\nThe original CASB adopted 19 standards, numbered 401 through 420 (419 was never assigned). The new CASB readopted the original 19 standards with only minor modifications, and has yet to adopt any new standards.\n\nCAS applies to contracts, not contractors, though Federal Acquisition Regulation clauses. A company may have contracts that are subject to \"full\" CAS coverage (be required to follow all 19 standards), \"modified\" CAS coverage (required to follow only Standards 401, 402, 405, and 406), simultaneously have contracts that are subject to either modified or full coverage, or be exempt from coverage. However, a company under \"full\" coverage is not subject to a standard where it does not apply (e.g., a company which does not use standard costing does not have to comply with CAS 407).\n\n\"Modified\" coverage applies to contracts when a company receives a single CAS-covered award of US$7.5 million or more; this is known as the \"Trigger\" contract; modified coverage applies to all contracts that are not exempt from CAS until the company meets the criteria for \"Full\" coverage.\n\n\"Full\" coverage applies when a company receives either one CAS-covered contract of US$50 million or more in the current accounting period, or, in the preceding cost accounting period, multiple CAS-covered contracts cumulatively totaling US$50 million. In addition to complying with all 19 standards (where applicable), the company must also file a CAS Disclosure Statement, which spells out the company's accounting practices (such as if certain costs are treated as direct contract charges or as part of overhead expense). There are two versions of the CAS Disclosure Statement: DS-1 applies to commercial companies while DS-2 applies to educational institutions.\n\nIn some instances, a contract may be exempt from CAS standards:\n\nPreviously, contracts where performance would have been performed entirely outside the United States (including territories and possessions) were also exempt, but this exemption was removed for new contracts effective October 11, 2011.\n\nFurthermore, in some instances even where a company is subject to a standard, different rules may apply within the standard itself as to what a company is required to do. As an example, under CAS 403, if Company A's \"residual expenses\" (defined as those expenses incurred by the home office – usually the corporate office – which cannot be identified to a specific contract, group of contracts, or company segment) exceed a specified percentage of revenue, Company A must follow a dictated \"three-factor\" formula to allocate such expenses, but if Company B's residual expenses do not exceed the percentage (even if, in dollar terms, they are greater), Company B may follow the formula but is not required to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "46362818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46362818", "title": "Data architect", "text": "Data architect\n\nA \"data architect\" is a practitioner of data architecture, an information technology discipline concerned with designing, creating, deploying and managing an organization's data architecture. Data architects define how the data will be stored, consumed, integrated and managed by different data entities and IT systems, as well as any applications using or processing that data in some way. It is closely allied with business architecture and is considered to be one of the four domains of enterprise architecture.\n\nAccording to the Data Management Body of Knowledge, the data architect “provides a standard common business vocabulary, expresses strategic data requirements, outlines high level integrated designs to meet these requirements, and aligns with enterprise strategy and related business architecture.”\n\nAccording to the Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF), a data architect is expected to set data architecture principles, create models of data that enable the implementation of the intended business architecture, create diagrams showing key data entities, and create an inventory of the data needed to implement the architecture vision.\n\n\nBob Lambert describes the necessary skills of a Data Architect as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31083241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31083241", "title": "Defence diplomacy", "text": "Defence diplomacy\n\nIn international politics, defence diplomacy refers to the pursuit of foreign policy objectives through the peaceful employment of defence resources and capabilities.\n\nDefence diplomacy as an organizing concept for defence-related international activity has its origin in post-Cold War reappraisals of Western defence establishments, led by the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence, and was a principle “used to help the West come to terms with the new international security environment.” While the term originated in the West, the conduct of defence diplomacy is by no means confined to Western countries.\n\nWhile there is not yet a broadly accepted definition of defence diplomacy, it can be understood as the peaceful application of resources from across the spectrum of defence, to achieve positive outcomes in the development of a country’s bilateral and multilateral relationships. \"Military diplomacy\" is a sub-set of this, tending to refer only to the role of military attachés and their associated activity. Defence diplomacy does not include military operations, but subsumes such other defence activity as international personnel exchanges, ship and aircraft visits, high level engagement (e.g. Ministers and senior defence personnel), bilateral meetings and staff talks, training and exercises, regional defence forums (e.g. Shangri-La Dialogue, Halifax Forum), outreach, confidence and security building measures, and non-proliferation activities.\nThe United Kingdom identified defence diplomacy as one of the military’s eight defence missions, and aims to “dispel hostility, build and maintain trust and assist in the development of democratically accountable armed forces” to make a “significant contribution to conflict prevention and resolution.” Defence diplomacy is often developed and implemented in close coordination with the foreign and development ministries to ensure coherence and focus across government. \n\nMajor General Ng Chee Khern, Air Force Chief of the Republic of Singapore, summed it up thus: \"In defence diplomacy, we seek to develop mutually beneficial relationships with friendly countries and armed forces to contribute to a stable international and regional environment.\" \n\nDefence diplomacy is often associated with conflict prevention and security sector reform. It is distinct from the concept of gunboat diplomacy, which is generally understood to be motivated by a desire to intimidate potential adversaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "4627888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4627888", "title": "Dual federalism", "text": "Dual federalism\n\nDual federalism, also known as layer-cake federalism or divided sovereignty, is a political arrangement in which power is divided between the federal and state governments in clearly defined terms, with state governments exercising those powers accorded to them without interference from the federal government. Dual federalism is defined in contrast to cooperative federalism (\"marble-cake federalism\"), in which federal and state governments collaborate on policy.\n\nThe system of dual/joint federalism in the United States is a product of the backlash against the Articles of Confederation, ratified in 1781, which established a very weak federal government with the powers to declare war, make treaties, and maintain an army. Fueled by Shays' Rebellion and an economy faltering under the inability of the federal government to pay the debt from the American Revolution, a group later known as the Federalists generated support for a strong central government and called for a Constitutional Convention in 1787 to reconsider the Articles.\n\nIn 1787, the Convention almost immediately dropped its original purpose of editing the Articles and instead drafted a new Constitution of the United States. Rejecting both confederal and unitary systems, they based the new American government on a new theory of federalism, a system of shared sovereignty that delegates some powers to the federal government and reserves other powers for the states. \nAmong other powers, the federal legislature could now tax citizens and maintain a standing military, and had exclusive power over regulating interstate commerce and coining currency. In addition, while Article Six of the Constitution stipulated that federal law in pursuit of constitutionally assigned ends overrode any contradictory state law, the power of the national government was held in check by the Bill of Rights – particularly the Tenth Amendment, which limited federal governmental powers to only those specified in the Constitution.\n\nImportantly, at the Convention, there was large debate over the structure of the legislative branch, eventually solved by the Connecticut Compromise. In the traditional understanding of the discussion, the larger states proposed the Virginia Plan, which allocated representation to each state proportional to its population. The smaller states, fearing a tyranny of the larger states, propose the New Jersey Plan, which gave each state equal representation in the legislative body. The states' motives for such a debate have been largely understood as a method for ensuring a strong voice in the federal government so as to maintain a desired degree of sovereignty. Further, political scientist Martin Diamond interprets the argument through a federalist vs antifederalist lens, discounting the question of state size. Specifically, he argues that the pure federalism of the New Jersey Plan and the pure nationalism of the Virginia Plan eventually came together to form the system of bicameralism that the framers settled on. However, his theory largely goes against the usual understanding, which some have argued is based on stronger historical evidence.\n\n\nSince the initial division of state and federal powers – collectively, the system of dual federalism – put forth by the Constitution, several seminal court cases have helped further clarify the purview of the federal government. One such case, \"McCulloch v. Maryland\", concerned the constitutionality of a federally chartered bank, which bankers and many legislators in Maryland opposed. Although the ability to charter a bank had not been explicitly granted to the federal government in the Constitution, federalist proponents argued such action as necessary for the federal government to exercise its constitutional power to “tax, borrow, and regulate interstate commerce.” The Supreme Court, in essence, backed Alexander Hamilton's interpretation of the Constitution over Thomas Jefferson. Thus, the banks legitimacy was ensured by the Necessary and Proper Clause.\n\nA second major case regarding the respective rights of the state and federal government was \"Gibbons v. Ogden\" (1824). In 1808, the Fulton-Livingston Company had been granted exclusive steamboat rights by the New York legislature, who in turn had leased ferry rights within a portion of New York to Aaron Ogden. Ogden, citing the monopoly granted to him by the Fulton-Livingstone Company, had successfully prevented Thomas Gibbons from operating a ferry service between Manhattan and New Jersey. Chief Justice Marshall’s majority opinion sided with Gibbons, stating that Ogden's monopoly of the ferry service overstepped states’ ability to regulate trade. While the constitutionality of some aspects implied by the case remained vague, the decision once more reaffirmed the supremacy of federal law and diminished the power of state-sanctioned protectionism.\n\nIn the decades before the Civil War, both Northern and Southern states clashed with the national government over perceived overreaches in its power. These conflicts struck at the heart of dual federalism, and reflected a fundamental disagreement about the division of power between the national and state levels. While these political battles were ostensibly solved either through legislative compromise or Supreme Court decisions, the underlying tensions and disagreements about states’ rights would later help set the stage for the Civil War.\n\nIn 1828, the so-called “Tariff of Abominations” passed the U.S. House. It was meant as a protectionist measure to help the relatively industrialized New England states against international products, but this had grave implications for the largely agrarian South. In protest and spearheaded by Vice President John Calhoun, South Carolina formulated a ‘Nullification Doctrine’, in effect claiming a state’s ability to ignore federal law, and rejected the tariff. The situation became especially serious when President Jackson ordered federal troops into Charleston, though crisis was averted by the drafting of a new tariff to which both sides agreed. The crisis illustrated an example of conflicting ideologies on state and federal power that was not resolved through the courts, but with discussion between elected officials.\n\nWhile some Southern states resisted economic actions of the federal government, several Northern states balked at federal requirements regarding slavery. In 1842, the case of \"Prigg v. Pennsylvania\" concerned Edward Prigg, who had been found guilty of kidnapping a former slave residing in Pennsylvania, Margaret Morgan, and her children and bringing them to her former owner in Maryland. Prigg was charged according to Pennsylvania law, which considered such an action a felony, while Prigg argued that he had been duly appointed for the task and was within the bounds of the federal Fugitive Slave Act of 1793. The U.S. Supreme Court declared the Pennsylvania law unconstitutional, striking the abolitionist law and heightening tensions between slaveholding and non-slaveholding states.\n\nA similar situation arose when, in 1854, the state Supreme Court of Wisconsin declared the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 unconstitutional. The U.S. Supreme Court overturned the Wisconsin Supreme Court while the Wisconsin legislature, echoing the rhetoric of South Carolina during the 1828 crisis, nullified the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision.\n\nIn 1857, continuing the debate between the national government and free states, the case of \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\" held that all Americans of African descent were not legally citizens, and therefore could not file suit. Thus Mr. Scott, a slave who had been brought to the free state of Illinois but later returned to slave-holding jurisdictions, and who had pursued emancipation through the federal courts, remained a slave. Though the decision was largely welcomed in the South, the decision outraged abolitionists and non-slaveholding states as another affront on states’ rights.\n\nThe Civil War brought to a head many of the fundamental disagreements concerning the extent of state and federal powers which presidential candidates Lincoln and Douglas had debated between 1858 and 1860. Douglas, an advocate of federal government limited by a strict interpretation of the Constitution, championed the vision of America as “the confederation of the sovereign states\". Lincoln, meanwhile, envisioned a more active federal government and more integrated national community, with the purview of states limited to only \"those things that pertain exclusively to themselves—that are local in their nature, that have no connection with the general government\". Many of these questions would be resolved by actions taken by the North’s federal government during the course of the fighting during the years after the debates. Actions taken by the North during the war, including the conscription of soldiers into a national army, as provided by the Enrollment Act of March 1863, and expanded federal control over banking with the 1863 National Banking Act, resulting in a much more robust national government in postbellum America. There exists debate over whether this increase in federal power was achieved against states’ will or whether such expanded powers were granted by the states.\n\nAfter the Civil War, the federal government began expanding its powers, primarily concerning itself with regulating commerce and civil rights, originally considered the domain of state governments.\n\nAfter the Civil War, Congress amended the Constitution to guarantee certain rights for citizens. This period brought about debate on whether the federal government could make these amendments, some arguing that this was an infringement on states' rights. However, during this time period the public began to believe that the federal government was responsible for defending civil liberties even though previously the idea was that a strong central government would be the biggest detriment to personal freedom. Regardless, the Supreme Court verified states' rights to require literacy tests in \"Williams v. Mississippi\", effectively allowing states to discriminate against black voters. In addition, the Court ruled in favor of states' rights to mandate racially segregated accommodations, so long as they were \"separate but equal\" in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\".\n\nAlthough Law Professor Eugene Gressman views these rulings as a \"judicially directed perversion\" of what the abolitionists meant to accomplish, within historical context the Supreme Court decisions seem more occupied with sustaining the system of dual federalism. In making these decisions, the Supreme Court aimed to keep in line with the idea of federalism as it then existed, balancing states' rights with the protection of civil liberties, rather than simply opposing the new amendments. For instance, in \"Strauder v. West Virginia\" the Court sided with those who wished to overturn the law that excluded black citizens from juries, which suggests that the Court was beginning to build a set of cases that enumerated rights based on the new amendments\n\nHowever, in other aspects the Supreme Court reasserted states' rights in relation to the 14th Amendment in particular. In the Slaughter-house cases and \"Bradwell v. Illinois\" the Court supported the view that the amendment regulated states rather than individuals practicing discrimination. Both of these cases allowed states to enforce laws that infringed on individual rights.\n\n The general consensus among scholars is that dual federalism ended during Franklin Roosevelt’s presidency in 1937 when the New Deal policies were decided constitutional by the Supreme Court. Industrialization, economic modernization, and conditions surrounding the Great Depression elevated commerce to a more national level, so there was an overlap in the powers of the federal government and the states. The federal government, using the Commerce Clause, passed national policies to regulate the economy. The Interstate Commerce Act and Sherman Antitrust Act solidified Congress's authority to regulate commerce between states and expanded its role. This, in addition to the New Deal policies, led to the federal government and the states working together more, ending the era of dual federalism and moving America into cooperative federalism. \nHowever, political scientists have argued different theories concerning the end of dual federalism. As opposed to a clear transition from dual federalism to cooperative federalism, some political scientists say there was a much more complicated relationship between the states and the federal government. Rather than a competition for power, the powers of the state and federal government change according to national political movements and their agendas; a dynamic that existed both before and after the New Deal. Other political scientists see dual federalism ending much earlier than the New Deal; This would have been the beginning of cooperative federalism as the federal government identified a problem, set up the basic outline of the program to address the problem, and make money available to fund that program, and then turning over much of the responsibility for implementing and running the program to the states and localities. Daniel Elazar argues that there was substantial cooperation among the states and federal government beginning in the 19th century, leading up to the Civil War and several political scientists assert that starting from the 1870s and throughout the Progressive Era, the federal government and states worked together to create national policies.\n\nThe governments of Argentina, Austria, Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, Comoros, Ethiopia, Germany, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Micronesia, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Russia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Spain, Switzerland, United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela also operate through federalism The federations of Australia, Canada, and Switzerland most closely resemble the model of American dual federalism in which fundamental governmental powers are divided between the federal and state governments, with the states exercising broad powers.\n\nWhile the American federalist system allocates both legislative and administrative powers to each division of government, European federations have historically allocated legislative powers to the federal government and left constituents to administer and implement these laws. Most western federalist systems in recent years have drifted away from autonomous levels of governments with strong state powers and moved toward more centralized federal governments, as seen in the American government's transition from dual to cooperative federalism. The Canadian and Australian federal systems closely resemble the American construct of dual federalism in that their legislative and executive powers are allocated in the same policy area to a single level of government. In contrast, some federal structures, such as those of Germany, Austria, and Switzerland, consist of federal governments exercising broad legislative powers and constituent governments allocated the power to administer such legislation in a style similar to cooperative federalism.\n\nConstitutions with delegations of broad powers to the state level of government that resemble the Constitution of the United States include the Constitution of Australia and the Constitution of Canada. The Australian Constitution was designed to enumerate a limited range of federal powers and leave the rest to the states. The Canadian Constitution, in contrast, assigned all residual powers to the federal government and enumerated a complete list of state powers. The Austrian Constitution, Constitution of Germany, and Swiss Constitution enumerate few policy fields exclusive to the states, but enumerate extensive concurrent powers. The federations operate chiefly through legislation produced by the federal government and left to the Länder or state governments to implement.\n\nIn his second term, President Dwight D. Eisenhower organized the Commission on National Goals to broadly outline national objectives. Included in their 1960 report \"Goals for Americans: The Report of the President's Commission on National Goals\" was \"The Federal System\", a report by political scientist Morton Grodzins. In this report, Grodzins first coined the terms \"layer cake federalism\" and \"marble cake federalism.\" He used the metaphor of a layer cake to describe the system of dual federalism, the separated layers of the cake symbolizing how distinct spheres of power that the state and federal governments inhabited. He contrasted this with marble cake, which he saw as descriptive of federalism's status in 1960, the swirling indistinct boundaries of the cake symbolizing the overlapping and concurrent duties of the state and federal governments.\n\n\nElazar, Daniel J. The American Partnership: Intergovernmental Cooperation in the Nineteenth-Century United States. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1962. \n\nMallat, Chibli Federalism in the Middle East and Europe 35 Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 4 (2003).\n\nMontinola, Gabriella, Qian, Yingyi and Weingast, Barry R. Federalism, Chinese Style: The Political Basis for Economic Success in China World Politics, Vol. 48, No. 1 (Oct., 1995), pp. 50–81.\n\nPascal, Elizabeth. Defining Russian Federalism. Greenwood Publishing Group, 2003.\n\nSidjanski, Dusan The Federal Approach to the European Union (or The Quest for an Unprecedented European Federalism) (July 2001). Notre Europe Research and Policy Paper No. 14.\n\nTummala, Krishna K. Asian Survey Vol. 32, No. 6 (Jun., 1992), pp. 538–553.\n\nWarmington-Granston, Nicole. FEDERALISM IN LATIN AMERICA.\n\nWilliams, Norman (August 2007).The Commerce Clause and the Myth of Dual Federalism UCLA Law Review.\n"}
{"id": "2905047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905047", "title": "Flour treatment agent", "text": "Flour treatment agent\n\nFlour treatment agents (also called improving agents, bread improvers, dough conditioners and dough improvers) are food additives combined with flour to improve baking functionality. Flour treatment agents are used to increase the speed of dough rising and to improve the strength and workability of the dough. While they are an important component of modern factory baking, some small-scale bakers reject them in favour of longer fermentation periods that produce greater depth of flavour.\nThere are wide ranges of these conditioners used in factory baking, which fall into four main categories: bleaching agents, oxidizing and reducing agents, enzymes, and emulsifiers. These agents are often sold as mixtures in a soy flour base, as only small amounts are required.\n\nFlour bleaching agents are added to flour to make it appear whiter (freshly milled flour is yellowish), to oxidize the surfaces of the flour grains, and help with developing of gluten.\n\nOxidizing agents are added to flour to help with gluten development. They may or may not also act as bleaching agents. Originally flour was naturally aged through exposure to the atmosphere. Oxidizing agents primarily affect sulfur-containing amino acids, ultimately helping to form disulfide bridges between the gluten molecules. The addition of these agents to flour will create a stronger dough.\n\nCommon oxidizing agents are:\n\nReducing agents help to weaken the flour by breaking the protein network. This will help with various aspects of handling a strong dough. The benefits of adding these agents are reduced mixing time, reduced dough elasticity, reduced proofing time, and improved machinability.\n\nCommon reducing agents are:\n\nEnzymes are also used to improve processing characteristics. Yeast naturally produces both amylases and proteinases, but additional quantities may be added to produce faster and more complete reactions.\n\nOther additives may be used as yeast nutrients or as a source of enzymes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "245104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245104", "title": "Gaius Gracchus", "text": "Gaius Gracchus\n\nGaius Sempronius Gracchus (154–121 BC) was a Roman \"Popularis\" politician in the 2nd century BC and brother of the reformer Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus. His election to the office of tribune in the years 123 BC and 122 BC and reformative policies while in office prompted a constitutional crisis and his death at the hands of the Roman Senate in 121 BC.\n\nGaius Gracchus was born into a family who had a strong tradition in the politics of ancient Rome. His father, Tiberius Gracchus the Elder, was a powerful man in Roman politics throughout the 2nd century BC and had built up a large and powerful clientele largely based in Spain. His mother was Cornelia Africana, daughter of Scipio Africanus, a noble woman who was a major influence on the Gracchi; as a widow, she refused the marriage proposal of Ptolemy VIII, the King of Egypt, preferring to devote her life to the upbringing of her sons.\n\nThe family was attached to the Claudii faction in Roman politics despite his mother's background. It can be supposed, however, that both the Gracchi brothers would have come into contact with powerful members of both the Claudii and Cornelii Scipiones factions.\nGaius Gracchus was the younger brother of Tiberius Gracchus, by about nine years. He was heavily influenced both by the reformative policy of his older brother, and by his death at the hands of a senatorial mob. Plutarch suggests that it was \"the grief he had suffered [that] encouraged him to speak out fearlessly, whenever he lamented the fate of his brother.\" Certainly aspects of his reforms, and especially his judicial reforms, seem to have been directed at the people responsible for his brother's death.\n\nGaius's political career began in 133 BC, when he served with Tiberius's land-commission. In 126 BC, he became a quaestor in the Roman province of Sardinia, where his merits advanced his good reputation. During his quaestorship, he honed his skills in oratory.\n\nIn one particularly harsh Sardinian winter, the Legate of the local garrison requisitioned supplies from the nearby towns, despite their objections. When they appealed and won the Senate's approval to keep their supplies, Gaius made them a personal appeal for aid. Fearing this as a ploy for popular approval, the Senate rebuffed envoys sent by Micipsa, king of Numidia, who had sent grain to Gaius based on their mutual regard. The Senate ordered the garrison's replacement, but also ordered that Gaius remain in his post, in Sardinia.\n\nGaius returned to Rome, to appeal the decision. He was accused of unlawfully abandoning his post, but won popular support when he pointed out that he had served twelve years - two more than the basic requirement - and had been quaestor for two years though legally only required to serve one. Furthermore, he had used the Roman money that he had brought with him to this quaestorship to aid Sardinia, and had never used his position to line his own pockets.\n\nHe was then accused of aiding in an Italian revolt at Fregellae, but little evidence supported this. His support for the reforms of Gaius Papirius Carbo and Marcus Fulvius Flaccus, his evident skills at oratory and his association with the reforms of his brother led the senatorial nobles to try him on charges plainly false or heavily exaggerated. He cleared himself with ease and in 122 was elected to serve as a tribune for the following year.\n\nGaius used his celebrated oratory, considered to be the best in Rome, to attack his opponents at every chance and frequently lamented the fate of his brother Tiberius. He criticised the Senate's failure to emulate their ancestors' respect for the tribune, citing its decision to wage war on the Falerii for insulting the tribune Genucius, or how Gaius Veturius had been condemned to death for failing to make way for the tribune. He chastised the people for standing by while Tiberius and his supporters were beaten and cited the unlawful sentences of exile that followed, because the accused were not permitted to stand trial.\n\nGaius' social reforms were far wider reaching than the reforms of his brother Tiberius. Perhaps motivated by the fate of his brother, some of his earliest reforms dealt with the judiciary system. He set up two initial measures, the first of which prohibited a magistrate who had been deposed by the people from holding office a second time. Gaius's second bill established the right of the people to prosecute any magistrate who had exiled citizens without a trial. These decisions were a direct response to the Senate's actions in the aftermath of his brother Tiberius's murder.\n\nCourts with capital punishment, not set up by the people, were now declared illegal by a retrospective measure which saw the former consul Popilius Laenas driven into exile. Further reforms to the judicial system were passed to check the acquittals by senatorial juries of senators charged with extortion; the Lex Acilia placed extortion trials under the control of the equites class, and trial procedures were redesigned in favour of the prosecution. Aside from benefiting the provincials by dispensing of the conflict of interests involved in Senators trying their fellow-Senators on crimes of which they were often guilty themselves, it was also a significant step in wrenching apart the longstanding alliance of the rich, Senators and Equites, in oppressing the poor proletariat, and bringing the Equites to his own side against the Senate. A second measure which Gracchus passed to please the Equites was in changing the arrangements of the Senate for collecting the taxes from the recently acquired (133) province of Asia. Whereas the Senate had arranged for a fixed sum to be paid directly to the state, excluding the capitalist Equites, Gracchus passed a measure changing the tax to a 10% tax on the lands of the province, the right of collecting which was auctioned off at Rome, thus naturally placing it in the hands of the Equites, since the Senators were banned from commerce, and the provincials were too distant. Although it has been stated that Gracchus' rearrangement was mere base pandering to the avarice of the Equites, who used the opportunity to extort fearful sums from the Asian provincials, it is also true that, on the other hand in a year of drought for instance, the 10% tax of Gracchus would be actually far more favorable to the province than a fixed amount.\n\nThough Tiberius' land measures had already accomplished their object by 129, when the Senate effectively froze it (by transferring jurisdiction regarding the right to proclaim land “Public” or “Private” from the land commission to the consuls), Gracchus symbolically returned jurisdiction over the land to the commission, gratifying popular sentiment. As a substitute to the allotments, large overseas colonies were planned to provide for thousands of settlers which may have included some Italians as well as Roman citizens. The \"Lex Frumentaria\" required that the state buy bulk grain from North Africa and Sicily and distribute it to citizens at a low price, as a monthly ration. Secondary roads were extended throughout Italy, to facilitate trade and communication. Rome's censors auctioned off contracts for tax collection in Asia.\n\nGaius's \"Lex Militaris\" provided for the free issue of clothes and equipment to soldiers, shortened the term of military service and forbade the draft of boys under the age of seventeen. These reforms were intended to raise army morale and to win the political support of soldiers, allies, and voters with small incomes.\n\nGaius submitted a franchise bill that sought the extension of Roman citizenship to all Latin citizens, and of Latin citizenship to all Italian allies. The bill was rejected because the Roman Patricians had no wish to share the benefits of citizenship, including subsidised grain and entertainment. The rejection of this measure led, in part, to the disastrous Social War of 90 BC.\n\nIn a further slight to the power of the Senate, Gaius changed physically how speeches were delivered from the Rostra. Formerly, when a speaker delivered a speech in the Forum, he turned his face to the right in the direction of the curia, the Senate house, and the Comitium. Instead, Gaius would turn his face to the left, toward the direction of the Forum proper, effectively turning his back on the Senate.\n\nGaius showed great efficiency in his administration. He oversaw the implementation of each new institution, and personally selected 300 equestrian jurists. He helped Gaius Fannius win the consulship for 122, and was elected as tribune the same year by popular vote.\n\nThe senate interpreted Gaius' popularity and legislation as threats to its privilege and position. It backed another tribune, Livius Drusus. He was placed under strict orders not to incite violence; instead, he should propose legislation that would please the common people, and make it known that he had the Senate's backing. In the event, his proposed legislation was neither credible nor beneficial to the commons, and was intended merely to undermine Gaius.\n\nWhen Gaius proposed that two colonies be founded with reliable citizens, the Senate accused him of trying to win favor with the people before Drusus proposed twelve with three thousand citizens. When Gaius granted the most needy small plots of redistributed land on the condition they pay a small rent to the public coffers, the Senate accused him of trying to win favor with the people before Drusus proposed to do the same rent-free.\n\nWhen Gaius proposed that all Latins should have equal voting rights, the Senate protested, but approved of Drusus' measure that no Latin would ever be beaten with rods. Drusus went to great pains to ensure he was never seen as the benefactor, politically or economically, of his legislation but rather that he proposed his measures, backed by the Senate, to further benefit the people. Drusus' constant referencing of the Senate worked and at least some of the people began to feel less hostility toward the Senate, marking the Senatorial plan a resounding success. When a measure was passed to found a colony at Carthage, which had been destroyed in 146 BC by Scipio Africanus the Younger, Gaius was appointed to oversee the construction and left for Africa. Drusus immediately took advantage of Gaius' absence by attacking Gaius' ally, Fulvius Flaccus, who was known by the Senate to be an agitator and was suspected by some of stirring up the Italian allies to revolt.\n\nA new candidate emerged for the consulship, one Lucius Opimius, who had opposed Fannius for the consulship in 122 BC and been stymied by Gaius' machinations. Opimius, a staunch conservative and oligarchical man who wanted to restore power to the Senate, had garnered a significant following and stood poised to challenge Gaius directly. Opimius had made it his sole mission to unseat Gaius.\n\nWhen Scipio the Younger agreed to represent the Italian allies, who were protesting the injustices done to them which Tiberius Gracchus' land reform was supposed to remedy, he won the hostility of the people, who accused him of standing against Tiberius Gracchus and wishing to abolish the law and incite bloodshed.\n\nWhen Scipio died suddenly and mysteriously one day, Gaius was one of many political enemies implicated in his death. Carbo had just that day delivered a fiery speech against Scipio and he—like other Gracchan political allies such as Fulvius Flaccus—was widely known to be an outspoken enemy of Scipio's during this time as his Gracchan-backed proposal to formally allow tribunes multiple terms in office was ultimately defeated in large part due to Scipio's influence. In fact, between the years of his return from Spain in 132 and his death in 129, Scipio \"inexorably began to unite the ruling oligarchy against\" Gaius. Other members of the Gracchi family were also accused; Scipio had been in a loveless marriage to Sempronia, sister of the Gracchi brothers and daughter of their mother Cornelia - Scipio referred to his wife as 'deformed' and 'barren'. Both women were suspected of murdering Scipio because of his perceived attempt to undo the reforms of Tiberius.\n\nThe combined political positions of his fellow tribunes Lucius Opimius, Livius Drusus and Marcus Minucius Rufus, another political enemy of Gaius, meant the repeal of as many of Gaius' measures as possible. Gaius now stood on increasingly shaky ground with the Senate, though his popularity with the people remained undeniable. Gaius' return to Rome from Carthage set in motion a series of events that would eventually cause him to suffer the same fate as his brother. Gaius' first action was to move from his home on the Palatine, where the wealthiest of Romans and the political elite lived, to a neighborhood near the Forum, believing that in so doing he was keeping to his democratic principles and reaffirming his loyalty to the people rather than to the privileged elite.\n\nGaius then called together all of his supporters from Italy to put into motion his legislation. The Senate convinced Fannius, whose friendship with Gaius had run its course, to expel all those who were not Roman citizens by birth from the city. Gaius condemned the proposal, promising support for the Italians, but his image took a hit when he failed to uphold his promises and did not stop Fannius' lictors from dragging away a friend. Whether he did this because he was afraid to test his power or because he refused to do anything which would have given the Senate pretext to initiate violence remains unknown.\n\nGaius further distanced himself from his fellow tribunes when he insisted that the seats for a gladiatorial show be removed to allow the poor to watch. When they refused, he removed them secretly at night. Plutarch claims this cost him a third term as tribune, because, although he won the popular vote, the tribunes were so upset that they falsified the ballots. Opimius and his supporters began to overturn Gaius' legislation with the hope of provoking him into violence, but Gaius remained resolute. Rumors suggested that his mother Cornelia hired foreign men disguised as harvesters to protect him.\n\nOn the day that Opimius planned to repeal Gaius' laws, an attendant of Opimius, Quintus Antyllius, carrying the entrails of a sacrifice, forced his way through a crowd. A resulting scuffle between the supporters of the two opposing groups on the Capitoline Hill led to his death. Plutarch maintains that Antyllius had rudely pushed his way through the crowd and gave an indecent gesture and was immediately beset upon by Gracchan supporters much to the disapproval of Gaius.\n\nAppian states that Gaius had arrived with an escort of body guards in a distressed state. When Antyllius saw Gaius, he laid a hand on him, begging him not to destroy the state. When Gaius cast his scorn on Antyllius, his supporters took it as a sign to act on his behalf and struck Antyllius down. Gaius and Fulvius failed to exonerate themselves of the deed and returned home under the protection of their supporters to await the day's outcomes.\n\nThe death of Antyllius allowed a triumphant Opimius a pretext for action. On the following morning, with much showboating, the body of Antyllius was presented to the Senate as indicative of the measures Gaius would take. The senate passed a senatus consultum ultimum, granting Opimius the right to defend the state and rid it of tyrants. The Senate armed itself and commanded all the equestrians to arm themselves and two of their servants and assemble the next morning.\n\nFulvius gathered his supporters and they passed the evening in a drunken and raucous manner. Gaius, much more somber, paused in front of the statue of his father on his way out of the Forum, and, weeping, went homeward. His plight and obvious distress caused such sympathy among the people, who blamed themselves for betraying their champion, that a large party gathered outside his home to ensure his protection. Unlike Fulvius, Gaius' men were quiet and reflective of future events.\n\nThe following morning, Fulvius' men armed themselves with spoils from Fulvius' Gallic campaign and marched loudly to the Aventine. Gaius refused to gird himself with anything save a small dagger and his toga. As he left his home, his wife Licinia, daughter of Crassus, begged him not to go meet the same men who had murdered and dishonored Tiberius Gracchus, knowing well enough that Gaius was to die that day. Gaius, without saying a word, gently pried himself from her arms and left her there, weeping, until her servants eventually came to pick her up and carried her to her brother Crassus.\n\nAt Gaius' suggestion, Fulvius sent his youngest son Quintus to the Forum to speak to the Senate as a herald carrying a staff, which was only used when heralds approached enemies in times of war. Tearful, he pleaded for terms which many there were willing to hear, but Opimius insisted on speaking directly to Fulvius and Gaius, demanding they surrender themselves for trial. These terms were not negotiable. When Quintus returned to Gaius and Fulvius, Gaius was willing to acquiesce but Fulvius was not and sent the boy back.\n\nWhen the boy came back to the Senate and relayed what his father Fulvius stated, Opimius placed him under arrest and under guard and advanced on Fulvius' position with a contingent of archers from Crete. When they fired on Fulvius' men, wounding many, the crowd was thrown into chaos and fled. Fulvius hid in an abandoned bath or workshop with his eldest son and when discovered both were executed. Appian adds that when they initially hid, citizens were hesitant to give them away, but when the whole row was threatened to be burned down they were handed over to the mob.\n\nGaius, taking no part in the fighting and despairing at the bloodshed, fled to the Temple of Diana on the Aventine where he intended to commit suicide but was stopped by his friends Pomponius and Licinius. Gaius knelt and prayed to the goddess, asking that the people of Rome be forever enslaved by their masters since many had openly and quickly switched sides when an amnesty was declared by the Senate.\n\nGaius fled the temple and tried to cross the Tiber on a wooden bridge while Pomponius and Licinius stayed back to cover his retreat, killing as many as they could until they were themselves felled. Accompanied by only his slave Philocrates, Gaius fled, urged by onlookers though no man offered assistance despite Gaius' repeated requests for aid. Arriving at a grove sacred to Furrina, Philocrates first assisted Gaius in his suicide before taking his own life, though some rumors held that Philocrates was only killed after he refused to let go of his master's body.\n\nGaius' head was cut off, as Opimius had announced that whoever brought back the head would be paid its weight in gold. When the head measured an astonishing seventeen and two-thirds pounds, it was discovered that Septimuleius, who brought the head, committed fraud by removing the brain and pouring in molten lead and therefore received no reward at all. The bodies of Gaius, Fulvius and the three thousand supporters who also died were thrown into the Tiber, their property confiscated and sold to the public treasury. Appian adds that their homes were looted by their opponents.\n\nTheir wives were forbidden to mourn the death of their husbands and Licinia, wife of Gaius, was stripped of her dowry. Fulvius' youngest son, who took no part in the fighting and merely acted as herald, was executed, though Appian holds that Opimius allowed him to choose his own manner of death. Most outrageous to the people was when Opimius celebrated his victory by building a temple to Concord in the Forum with the Senate's approval. The people felt that a victory bought with the massacre of so many citizens was exceptionally distasteful. According to Plutarch, one night an inscription was carved that read \"This temple of Concord is the work of mad Discord.\"\n\nPlutarch maintains that Opimius was the first Roman to appoint himself dictator, kill 3,000 Roman citizens without trial, including the proconsul Fulvius Flaccus and the tribune Gaius Gracchus, a man renowned for his reputation and virtue. Ironically, this same Opimius then later committed fraud and accepted bribes from the Numidian king Jugurtha and, after being convicted, spent his days in disgrace. The people, realizing that their democratic cause was now dead, understood how deeply they missed the Gracchus brothers.\n\nStatues were erected in Rome, the locations where they fell were consecrated as holy ground and the season's first fruits were offered as sacrifice. Many worshiped them daily as if the Gracchi had been elevated to divine status. Cornelia honored the memory of her sons' murders by constructing elaborate tombs at the spot of their deaths. Appian adds that within 15 years, all of the progress done under the Gracchi had been overturned and the poor were in a much worse position than ever before, many reduced to unemployment.\n\nWhile many of Gaius' laws were repealed by his political opponents, the \"Lex Frumentaria\" remained. It set a precedent for the \"Roman Bread Dole\" which existed in one form or another until the fall of the Western Empire.\n\nThe French revolutionary François-Noël Babeuf took up the name \"Gracchus Babeuf\" in conscious emulation of the Roman brothers, and published a newspaper \"Le tribun du peuple\" (\"the tribune of the people\"). Ultimately he, like them, met a violent end.\n\nAt the Internet Classics Archive, MIT:\n"}
{"id": "49242908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49242908", "title": "Gardner Bishop", "text": "Gardner Bishop\n\nGardner L. Bishop was a barber and civil rights activist in Washington, D.C. His work for equal schools for black and white children in the 1940s and 1950s included organizing the student strike at Browne Junior High School and contributing to the historic \"Bolling\" \"v. Sharpe\" case that made school segregation unconstitutional in the District. Bishop, originally from North Carolina, was known for his outspokenness and his drive to end elitism in the black community. \n\nGardner LaClede Bishop was a barber and activist remembered for his contributions to the school integration movement in the District of Columbia in the 1940s and 1950s. He was born on January 20, 1909 in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. He learned how to express his opinions early on, winning prizes as a high school debater in his home state. Although he attended a year of college at Shaw University in Raleigh, North Carolina, he did not graduate. In 1930 he moved to Washington, D.C. He lived east of the Anacostia River and, like his father, began working as a barber. After challenging the comments of racist customers on multiple occasions, he was fired. Not cowed, he opened B&D Barber Shop at 1515 U Street NW in 1940, which he owned and operated through his retirement in 1985. His black clientele could get both “a haircut and an earful” from the “barber of U Street.” He was a member of the Presbyterian Church and was married for 58 years to Thelma Crutchfield Bishop, who died in 1989. They had three children: Judine Bishop Johnson, Anita Harley, and Gardner L. Bishop Jr. He died of kidney failure on November 25, 1992 at age 82.\n\nBishop focused not only on the inequalities between black schools and white schools, but also on the differences between upper and lower class black schools and attitudes. He was appalled by the snobbishness of the elite black Washingtonians. Part of his motivation for organizing a strike at Browne Junior High School came from his rebuffed requests to transfer his daughter to Banneker Junior High. Middle class black officials informed him that because he was only a barber, his daughter could not go to Banneker, a school meant for the middle class. This rebuke infuriated Bishop, and fueled his mistrust of some of the activist organizations he saw as furthering the agendas of the upper classes of society, including the NAACP. Bishop verbalized his sense of frustration and oppression, saying, “We were on the bottom shelf. I’m black and I’m poor, so I’m segregated twice.”\n\nWhen Bishop came to the nation’s capital, the public school system was segregated, and the facilities for black children and white children were far from equal. As the population of the city expanded in the post World War II years, the schools, particularly the black schools, became overcrowded. Between 1930 and 1950 the African American population alone doubled to 280,000 people, about 35% of D.C.’s total population. The shifting demographics of the city, with whites fleeing to the suburbs and the proportion of the black population steadily increasing, led to an unequal distribution of students amongst the available facilities. Taxes were allocated to fund black schools and white schools based on population statistics collected in the decennial census, so by the end of the 1940s the black schools were receiving far less than their fair share of tax dollars based on the numbers of black children enrolled because of the outdated census data.\n\nGardner Bishop was unwilling to accept a substandard education for his children. His oldest daughter, Judine, attended Browne in 1947. He was outraged by the use of schools that whites had abandoned, not to mention the long walks that students had to take in the middle of their school day to move to a different building. Bishop did not see this shifting schedule as an acceptable solution to the overcrowding. He and other disgruntled parents began holding meetings at Jones Memorial Church to discuss how to present their grievances to the school board. They eventually became known as the Consolidated Parents Group. Bishop took charge as the most visible and vocal member of the group, but came to rely on a set of leaders within the group that grew to have hundreds of members. With Bishop as president, there were two vice presidents, Marie W. Smith and Burma Whitted, a secretary, Unity T. Macklin, and a treasurer, James Haley Sr. At one of their first meetings they voted to stage a student “sit-out” to boycott the situation at Browne Junior High School.\n\nBishop’s organizational efforts did not stop at Browne. In 1949, he took a group of black students to the newly opened Sousa Junior High School, a school for whites with many amenities. The students were given a tour, but they were not allowed to enroll. This incident resulted in a lawsuit, with Spotswood Bolling, one of the students on the tour, as a plaintiff. The case was later argued in front of the Supreme Court with four other cases as part of the historic Brown v. Board of Education decision. Bolling v. Sharpe was unique because it introduced the argument that segregation itself was unconstitutional. Additionally, the NAACP was not involved in the Bolling case because of Bishop’s continued suspicion of middle class black organizations.\n\nBishop’s activism made an impact because his efforts were broad yet focused. He targeted specific injustices in the school system on a variety of fronts. The strike made a social statement and allowed people to see the problem up close. The court case attacked segregation from a legal standpoint, aimed at changing the laws themselves. In addition, Bishop wrote Letters to the Editor of the Washington Post, on topics including school buildings and high school capacity, putting his arguments into print. He was determined to ensure that whites did not become complacent because of the concessions allowed for middle class blacks in the school system. He worked for the lowest members of society, those whose voices and rights were consistently ignored by the established powers. Although Gardner Bishop was not the most prominent civil rights activist of his time, he serves as a reminder that no matter what background people come from, if they speak their minds and fight for what they believe in they can leave a lasting impact.\n\n"}
{"id": "433129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433129", "title": "Gleaning", "text": "Gleaning\n\nGleaning is the act of collecting leftover crops from farmers' fields after they have been commercially harvested or on fields where it is not economically profitable to harvest. It is a practice described in the Hebrew Bible that became a legally enforced entitlement of the poor in a number of Christian kingdoms.\n\nAccording to the Book of Deuteronomy and Leviticus, farmers should leave corners of their fields unharvested (pe'ah), should not pick up that which was dropped (gleanings), and should not harvest any over-looked produce that had been forgotten when they harvested the majority of a field. On one of the two occasions that this is stated in Leviticus, it adds that in vineyards, some grapes should be left ungathered, a statement also found in Deuteronomy.\n\nThese verses additionally command that olive trees should not be beaten on multiple occasions, and whatever remains from the first set of beatings should be left. According to Leviticus, these things should be left for the poor and for strangers, and Deuteronomy commands that it should be left for widows, strangers, and paternal orphans. The Book of Ruth tells of gleaning by the widow Ruth to provide for herself and her mother-in-law, Naomi, who was also a widow.\n\nIn classical rabbinic literature, it was argued that the biblical regulations concerning left-overs only applied to grain fields, orchards, and vineyards, and not to kitchen gardens; the classical rabbinical writers were much stricter in regard to who could receive the remains. It was stated that the farmer was not permitted to benefit from the gleanings, and was not permitted to discriminate among the poor, nor try to frighten them away with dogs or lions; the farmer was not even allowed to help one of the poor to gather the left-overs. However, it was also argued that the law was only applicable in Canaan, although many classical rabbinic writers, who were based in Babylon, applied the laws there too; it was also seen as only applying to Jewish paupers, but poor non-Jews were sometimes allowed to benefit for the sake of civil peace.\n\nIn many parts of Europe, including England and France, the Biblically-derived right to glean the fields was reserved for the poor; a right, enforceable by law, that continued in parts of Europe into modern times.\n\nIn 18th century England, gleaning was a legal right for cottagers, the term used to describe landless residents. In a small village the sexton would often ring a church bell at eight o'clock in the morning and again at seven in the evening to tell the gleaners when to begin and end work. This legal right effectively ended after the \"Steel v Houghton\" decision in 1788.\n\nThe Shulchan Aruch argues that Jewish farmers are no longer obliged to obey the biblical rule. Nevertheless, in modern Israel, rabbis of Orthodox Judaism insist that Jews allow \"gleanings\" to be consumed by the poor and by strangers during Sabbatical years.\n\nIn the modern world, gleaning is practised by humanitarian groups which distribute the gleaned food to the poor and hungry; in a modern context, this can include the collection of food from supermarkets at the end of the day that would otherwise be thrown away. There are a number of organizations that practice gleaning to resolve issues of societal hunger; the Society of St. Andrew, for example, is dedicated to the role.\n\nWhen people glean and distribute food, they may be bringing themselves legal risk; in the Soviet Union, the Law of Spikelets (sometimes translated \"law on gleaning\") criminalised gleaning, under penalty of death, or 20 years of forced labour in exceptional circumstances. In the US, the Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Act of 1996 limited the liability of donors to instances of gross negligence or intentional misconduct, alleviating gleaning from much of the risk that was allegedly hampering the delivery of surplus food from restaurants and dining facilities to emergency food centers. The law preempts state Good Samaritan Acts, that provide less protection.\n\nGleaning was a popular subject in art, especially in the nineteenth century. Gleaning in rural France has been represented in the paintings \"Des Glaneuses\" (1857) by Jean-François Millet and \"Le rappel des glaneuses\" (1859) by Jules Breton (), and explored in a 2000 documentary/experimental film, \"The Gleaners and I\", by Agnès Varda.\n\nVincent van Gogh's sketch of a \"Peasant Woman Gleaning\" in Nuenen, The Netherlands (1885) is in the Charles Clore collection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41211847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41211847", "title": "Groundswell group", "text": "Groundswell group\n\nGroundswell is the name of an alleged \"secret organization\" of US conservative activists and journalists highlighted by the liberal publication \"Mother Jones\" in July 2013. According to \"Mother Jones\", the group started out meeting in the offices of the conservative legal group Judicial Watch in early 2013 and is led by Ginni Thomas (wife of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas) and John Bolton. \n\nAccording to leaked documents, the group is staging \"a 30 front war seeking to fundamentally transform the nation\" by such goals as undermining the power of former GOP strategist and Fox News analyst Karl Rove along with pushing scandals such as the Benghazi bombing and the Operation Fast and Furious gun-running issue, repealing the Affordable Care Act, working behind the scenes to enact voter ID laws, and blocking Obama administration nominees.\n"}
{"id": "31939644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31939644", "title": "Guernsey Border Agency", "text": "Guernsey Border Agency\n\nThe Guernsey Border Agency is the law enforcement body charged with tackling cross border crime and administering the customs and immigration systems for the Bailiwick of Guernsey. The agency is headed by a Chief Officer - Patrick Rice (Head of Law Enforcement) \n\nThe Agency has been established in shadow form following a decision to separate the executive functions of setting strategy and policy (which will be the responsibility of the Home Department and a law enforcement commission) and operational law enforcement. The island has had an integrated customs and immigration function since 1975. The new agency brings financial crime and drugs responsibilities to the new agency from the Guernsey Police.\n\nThe agency has around 90 officers and staff. It has a cutter and can call on mutual aid from French customs and UK Border Agency aircraft and vessels if required.\n\nThe agency is based at New Jetty, White Rock, St Peter Port, Guernsey.\n\n"}
{"id": "48802788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48802788", "title": "Herman Wainggai", "text": "Herman Wainggai\n\nHerman Wainggai is a West Papuan leader living in exile in the United States of America and banned for life from his beloved home, Jayapura, the capital city of West Papua. He is a former political prisoner who took on the Indonesian government and almost cost him his life. Mr. Wainggai escaped to Australia, where he lived briefly before traveling to the United States where he resides today. He is known to many in Australia and the world as the man who escaped on a canoe to Australia in 2006.\n\nMr. Wainggai was born in Jayapura, the capital city of West Papua, in 1973. He grew up in a fisherman family. Because he was shy, he spent most of his young days at home playing with his own toys and helping his mother and father. He recalled going to the market with his mother to sell their father's catch of the day. According to him, it was the only source of income. Mr. Wainggai was among the 10 West Papuan students to get a government scholarship. Unfortunately, the Indonesian government rejected his scholarship without any reasonable explanation so he assumed that because his uncle Dr. Thom Wainggai - one of the famous activists in West Papua - was in jail at that time and that both shared the same surname, the Indonesian government refused to fund his education.\n\nIn 2000, Mr. Wainggai and his fellow West Papuan activists arranged one of the largest protests in West Papuan history to commemorate the raising of the West Papuan flag and in recognition of West Papuan sovereignty. They marched from Cenderawasih University to downtown Jayapura to express their anger, frustration, and to raise the West Papuan Morning Star flag - an outlawed flag in West Papua. After a very long march and few clashes with Indonesian police along the way, West Papuan students and local supporters arrived at the Taman Imbi Park in the heart of Jayapura. There, Mr. Wainggai and other activists were arrested. They were taken to one of the police stations in Jayapura and held for hours under severe non-stop interrogation. After 16 long hours of interrogation by the Indonesian intelligence officers all armed with rifles, students were released while he and two other leaders were left behind to serve four months in prison. They were denied lawyers at the time of the Interview and were held for long hours with sleep deprivation. His father was arrested earlier and about a month later, they were united in one room. The conditions in prison were really bad. In any Democratic society, the presumption of innocence is a common right given to the accused, but in this case, Mr. Wainggai and his fellow inmates were interrogated without the presence of lawyers, though they asked to see lawyers throughout the cause of the interrogation. They were locked up without a fair trial and were denied basic necessities political prisoners so deserved. They had no beds. They only slept on the floor using only newspapers as their beds. No shower. No toilet. They did everything normal human beings wouldn't do in normal situations, in that little room. For four months, they appeared in court each month until their final hearing, which occurred at their third trial. The Judge ruled that because they were peaceful protesters, they would only serve four months. They were, however, credited for time served so they walked out of the Court House free men. For Mr. Wainggai, it was a wonderful experience. All they did was thanking God and then went out to meet with their families who were anxiously waiting for them outside the courtroom.\n\nIn 2001, after his release from Indonesian prison, Mr. Wainggai headed of Papua New Guinea where he continued his political activism - organizing meetings and holding nonviolent workshops across the country. While in PNG, he acquired a passport; something he wasn't able to do in Indonesia as a political activist.\n\nIn 2002, after his return to West Papua, he was invited to go to Fiji to attend the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) meeting there. He traveled to Fiji using his newly issued passport to lobby for support from members of the forum; hoping to ask them to support the struggles of West Papuans for self-determination, but he had no idea what awaited him in Fiji. As soon as he stepped off the plane, the Fijian immigration authority hauled him into a room for questioning. He was shocked and demanded to know why he was detained, but the Fiji immigration officials did not give him a reason as to why he was being held. Later, he was told that something was not right about his immigration papers, which was quite ironic considering the fact that he boarded the plane to Fiji without any issues at the airport. Mr. Wainggai was locked up in a small room at the airport for 24 hours. The next day, a Fijian Immigration official went to the room where he was detained and gave him a visa and a said to him in his Fijian accent - \"Welcome to Fiji\". Looking back, Mr. Wainggai believed he was being targeted by Indonesia using Fiji immigration official. In fact, traveling around Melanesia doesn't require entry or visitor's visa if you are using a passport from a member state, but for some reasons he was held up at the airport over visitor's visa. It is also likely, according to Mr. Wainggai's own story, that the Fijian government may have notified Indonesia of his arrival in Fiji and may have conspired to arrest him on his return to West Papua, which was the case when he returned home from Fiji.\n\nMr. Wainggai revealed that he spent half a year working with NGOs in Fiji to lobby the leaders of the PIF on behalf of the West Papuan cause. He told the Pacific Islands members that not standing up to Indonesia was a sign that the PIF members were perfectly fine with the massacre of Melanesian West Papuans. He made an impassioned plea to the PIF before returning to him home - West Papua.\n\nOn his arrival, he was arrested and charged with \"Subversion\" and was thrown in jail. Subversion is the 'conspiracy to overthrow' the government, or work against the government the Indonesia. After hours of court hearings, his defense team successfully argued his case and the judge decided that his crime didn't warrant a 20-year prison term. Mr. Wainggai was sentenced to two years in prison as a political prisoner. He endured the harsh conditions of jail, and in 2004, he was released - a free man.\n\nAfter his release in 2004, he went straight back to his political activism with the knowledge that he could be killed. However, he refused to remain silent. He continued organizing protests, nonviolent workshops, which were mostly held in PNG near that border. By this time, he spoke English and fluent in PNG Tok Pijin. In 2005, with so many activists incarcerated, he feared that death was around the corner for him, or if arrested again he would spend all his life behind bars. After consulting with his family and supporters, he and forty other West Papuans, including children: two of them were his own twin sons two years old, and women, escaped to Australia on a home-made canoe. That canoe was large enough to carry more than forty people across the treacherous seas from West Papua all the way to Australia. They came ashore on Mapoon Island in Northern Australia and were taken to immigration facilities where they were kept for sometimes while the Australian government weighed its options.\n\nThe Indonesian government's reaction was somewhat predictable. Indonesian immediately warned Australia over West Papuan asylum seekers. Indonesia vehemently demanding that they returned to Indonesian, and also threatened to sever ties with Australia. The Australian government, however, announced that it is the obligation of Australia under international laws to protect refugees who arrived on Australian shores. Living up to its words, the 43 refugees were processed and received \"refugee status\".\n\nOn March 24, 2006, the Australian government decided to grant temporary visas to the West Papuan refugees, giving them legal protective status to remain in Australia. Speaking to the reporters shortly after they received temporary visas, Mr. Wainggai told News media that the Australian government and the international community ought to look into the issues in West Papua earnestly, something that the Australian government had not done in a long time. He also told reporters that he himself saw his friends killed by the Indonesian military and did not want to suffer the same fate.\n\nIn response to the Australian government's decision to grant temporary protective visa to the West Papuan refugees, the Indonesian government recalled its ambassador to Australia, Nadjib Riphat Kesoema, marking the worst diplomatic row between Australia and Jakarta in years.\n\nThese refugees had received tremendous support from political leaders and NGOs within Australia who were quite informed about the flight and the danger West Papuans are facing in their country. The Green Party, in particular, called for support of these refugees citing the ongoing crisis in West Papua.\n\nIn 2009, three years after he led more than forty West Papuans and escape to Australia, Mr. Wainggai traveled to the United States to attend a conference on International Human Rights. He was invited to Boston, Massachusetts, to participate in workshops on the issue of nonviolence at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tuff University. He then moved to Washington, D.C, where he studied 'Conflict Analysis and Resolution' and became a \"Visiting Scholar\" at the George Mason University (GMU), Fairfax, Virginia. His trip to the United States marked an unusual but welcoming turn in his life.☃☃ Mr. Wainggai continues his lobbying work at the US Congress and the United Nations on behalf of his people.\n\n"}
{"id": "409919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409919", "title": "Historical race concepts", "text": "Historical race concepts\n\nThe concept of race as a rough division of anatomically modern humans (\"Homo sapiens\") has a long and complicated history. The word \"race\" itself is modern and was used in the sense of \"nation, ethnic group\" during the 16th to 19th century, and only acquired its modern meaning in the field of physical anthropology from the mid 19th century. The politicization of the field under the concept of racism in the 20th century led to a decline in racial studies during the 1930s to 1980s, culminating in a poststructuralist deconstruction of race as a social construct.\n\nThe word \"race\", interpreted to mean an identifiable group of people who share a common descent, was introduced into English in about 1580, from the Old French ' (1512), from Italian '. An earlier but etymologically distinct word for a similar concept was the Latin word \"\" meaning a group sharing qualities related to birth, descent, origin, race, stock, or family; this Latin word is cognate with the Greek words \"genos\", () meaning \"race or kind\", and \"gonos\", which has meanings related to \"birth, offspring, stock ...\".\n\nIn many ancient civilizations, individuals with widely varying physical appearances became full members of a society by growing up within that society or by adopting that society's cultural norms. (Snowden 1983; Lewis 1990).\n\nClassical civilizations from Rome to China tended to invest the most importance in familial or tribal affiliation than an individual's physical appearance (Dikötter 1992; Goldenberg 2003). Societies still tended to equate physical characteristics, such as hair and eye colour, with psychological and moral qualities, usually assigning the highest qualities to their own people and lower qualities to the \"Other\", either lower classes or outsiders to their society. For example, an historian of the 3rd century Han Dynasty in the territory of present-day China describes barbarians of blond hair and green eyes as resembling \"the monkeys from which they are descended\". (Gossett, pp. 4).\n\nDominant in ancient Greek and Roman conceptions of human diversity was the thesis that physical differences between different populations could be attributed to environmental factors. Though ancient peoples likely had no knowledge of evolutionary theory or genetic variability, their concepts of race could be described as malleable. Chief among environmental causes for physical difference in the ancient period were climate and geography. Though thinkers in ancient civilizations recognized differences in physical characteristics between different populations, the general consensus was that all non-Greeks were barbarians. This barbarian status, however, was not thought to be fixed; rather, one could shed the 'barbarian' status simply by adopting Greek culture. (Graves 2001)\n\nHippocrates of Cos believed, as many thinkers throughout early history did, that factors such as geography and climate played a significant role in the physical appearance of different peoples. He writes, \"the forms and dispositions of mankind correspond with the nature of the country\". He attributed physical and temperamental differences among different peoples to environmental factors such as climate, water sources, elevation and terrain. He noted that temperate climates created peoples who were \"sluggish\" and \"not apt for labor\", while extreme climates led to peoples who were \"sharp\", \"industrious\" and \"vigilant\". He also noted that peoples of \"mountainous, rugged, elevated, and well-watered\" countries displayed \"enterprising\" and \"warlike\" characteristics, while peoples of \"level, windy, and well-watered\" countries were \"unmanly\" and \"gentle\".\n\nThe Roman emperor Julian factored in the constitutions, laws, capacities, and character of peoples:\n\nEuropean medieval models of race generally mixed Classical ideas with the notion that humanity as a whole was descended from Shem, Ham and Japheth, the three sons of Noah, producing distinct Semitic (Asiatic), Hamitic (African), and Japhetic (Indo-European) peoples. This theory dates back to the Babylonian \"Talmud\", which states, \"the descendants of Ham are cursed by being black, and [it] depicts Ham as a sinful man and his progeny as degenerates.\"\n\nIn the 9th century, Al-Jahiz, an Afro-Arab Islamic philosopher, attempted to explain the origins of different human skin colors, particularly black skin, which he believed to be the result of the environment. He cited a stony region of black basalt in the northern Najd as evidence for his theory.\n\nIn the 14th century, the Islamic sociologist Ibn Khaldun, dispelled the Babylonian \"Talmud\"'s account of peoples and their characteristics as a myth. He wrote that black skin was due to the hot climate of sub-Saharan Africa and not due to the descendants of Ham being cursed.\n\nIndependently of Ibn Kaldun's work, the question of whether skin colour is heritable or a product of the environment is raised in 17th to 18th century European anthropology. \nGeorgius Hornius (1666) inherits the rabbinical view of heritability, while François Bernier (1684) argues for at least partial influence of the environment. \nIbn Khaldun's work was later translated into French, especially for use in Algeria, but in the process, the work was \"transformed from local knowledge to colonial categories of knowledge\". William Desborough Cooley'1s \"The Negro Land of the Arabs Examined and Explained\" (1841) has excerpts of translations of Khaldun's work that were not affected by French colonial ideas. For example, Cooley quotes Khaldun's describing the great African civilization of Ghana (in Cooley's translation):\n\nIbn Khaldun suggests a link between the rise of the Almoravids and the decline of Ghana. But, historians have found virtually no evidence for an Almoravid conquest of Ghana.\n\nScientists who were interested in natural history, including biological and geological scientists, were known as \"naturalists\". They would collect, examine, describe, and arrange data from their explorations into categories according to certain criteria. People who were particularly skilled at organizing specific sets of data in a logically and comprehensive fashion were known as classifiers and systematists. This process was a new trend in science that served to help answer fundamental questions by collecting and organizing materials for systematic study, also known as taxonomy.\n\nAs the study of natural history grew, so did society's effort to classify human groups. Some zoologists and scientists wondered what made humans different from animals in the primate family. Furthermore, they contemplated whether homo sapiens should be classified as one species with multiple varieties or separate species. In the 16th and 17th century, scientists attempted to classify \"Homo sapiens\" based on a geographic arrangement of human populations based on skin color, others simply on geographic location, shape, stature, food habits, and other distinguishing characteristics. Occasionally the term \"race\" was used but most of the early taxonomist used classificatory terms such as \"peoples\", \"nations\", \"types\", \"varieties\", and \"species\".\n\nItalian philosopher Giordano Bruno (1548–1600) and Jean Bodin (1530–1596), French philosopher, attempted a rudimentary geographic arrangement of known human populations based on skin color. Bodin's color classifications were purely descriptive, including neutral terms such as \"duskish colour, like roasted quinze\", \"black\", \"chestnut\", and \"farish white\".\n\nGerman and English scientists, Bernhard Varen (1622–1650) and John Ray (1627–1705) classified human populations into categories according to stature, shape, food habits, and skin color, along with any other distinguishing characteristics.\nRay was also the first person to produce a biological definition of species.\n\nFrançois Bernier (1625–1688) is believed to have developed the first comprehensive classification of humans into distinct races which was published in a French journal article in 1684, \"Nouvelle division de la terre par les différentes espèces ou races l'habitant\", New division of Earth by the different species or races which inhabit it. (Gossett, 1997:32–33). Bernier advocated using the \"four quarters\" of the globe as the basis for providing labels for human differences. The four subgroups that Bernier used were Europeans, Far Easterners, Negroes (blacks), and Lapps.\n\nAs noted earlier, scientists attempted to classify \"Homo sapiens\" based on a geographic arrangement of human populations. Some based their hypothetical divisions of race on the most obvious physical differences, like skin color, while others used geographic location, shape, stature, food habits, and other distinguishing characteristics to delineate between races. However, cultural notions of racial and gender superiority tainted early scientific discovery. In the 18th century, scientists began to include behavioral or psychological traits in their reported observations—which traits often had derogatory or demeaning implications—and researchers often assumed that those traits were related to their race, and therefore, innate and unchangeable. Other areas of interest were to determine the exact number of races, categorize and name them, and examine the primary and secondary causes of variation between groups.\n\nThe Great Chain of Being, a medieval idea that there was a hierarchical structure of life from the most fundamental elements to the most perfect, began to encroach upon the idea of race. As taxonomy grew, scientists began to assume that the human species could be divided into distinct subgroups. One's \"race\" necessarily implied that one group had certain character qualities and physical dispositions that differentiated it from other human populations. Society assigned different values to those differentiations, as well as other, more trivial traits (a man with a strong chin was assumed to possess a stronger character than men with weaker chins). This essentially created a gap between races by deeming one race superior or inferior to another race, thus creating a hierarchy of races. In this way, science was used as justification for unfair treatment of different human populations.\n\nThe systematization of race concepts during the Enlightenment period brought with it the conflict between monogenism (a single origin for all human races) and polygenism (the hypothesis that races had separate origins). This debate was originally cast in creationist terms as a question of one versus many creations of humanity, but continued after evolution was widely accepted, at which point the question was given in terms of whether humans had split from their ancestral species one or many times.\n\nJohann Friedrich Blumenbach (1752–1840) divided the human species into five races in 1779, later founded on crania research (description of human skulls), and called them (1793/1795):\n\nBlumenbach's classification of the Mongolian race included all East Asians and some Central Asians as well as the Inuit (Eskimos) of the American arctic, excluding peoples of Southeast Asian islands and Pacific Islanders, which were categorized in a separate Malayan race. Blumenbach's American race comprised most peoples of the Americas (excepting the polar region) and of the Caribbean.\n\nBlumenbach argued that physical characteristics like skin color, cranial profile, etc., were depended on geography and nutrition and custom.\nBlumenbach's work included his description of sixty human crania (skulls) published originally in fascicules as \"Decas craniorum\" (Göttingen, 1790–1828). This was a founding work for other scientists in the field of craniometry.\n\nFurther anatomical study led him to the conclusion that 'individual Africans differ as much, or even more, from other individual Africans as Europeans differ from Europeans'. Furthermore, he concluded that Africans were not inferior to the rest of mankind 'concerning healthy faculties of understanding, excellent natural talents and mental capacities'.\n\"Finally, I am of opinion that after all these numerous instances I have brought together of negroes of capacity, it would not be difficult to mention entire well-known provinces of Europe, from out of which you would not easily expect to obtain off-hand such good authors, poets, philosophers, and correspondents of the Paris Academy; and on the other hand, there is no so-called savage nation known under the sun which has so much distinguished itself by such examples of perfectibility and original capacity for scientific culture, and thereby attached itself so closely to the most civilized nations of the earth, as the Negro.\"\nThese five groups saw some continuity in the various classification schemes of the 19th century, in some cases augmented, e.g. by the Australoid race and the Capoid race in some cases the Mongolian (East Asian) and American collapsed into a single group.\n\nAmong the 19th century naturalists who defined the field were Georges Cuvier, James Cowles Pritchard, Louis Agassiz, Charles Pickering (\"Races of Man and Their Geographical Distribution\", 1848). Cuvier enumerated three races, Pritchard seven, Agassiz twelve, and Pickering eleven.\n\nThe 19th century saw attempts to change race from a taxonomic to a biological concept. For example, using anthropometrics, invented by Francis Galton and Alphonse Bertillon, they measured the shapes and sizes of skulls and related the results to group differences in intelligence or other attributes (Lieberman 2001).\n\nThese scientists made three claims about race: first, that races are objective, naturally occurring divisions of humanity; second, that there is a strong relationship between biological races and other human phenomena (such as forms of activity and interpersonal relations and culture, and by extension the relative material success of cultures), thus biologizing the notion of \"race\", as Foucault demonstrated in his historical analysis; third, that race is therefore a valid scientific category that can be used to explain and predict individual and group behavior. Races were distinguished by skin color, facial type, cranial profile and size, texture and color of hair. Moreover, races were almost universally considered to reflect group differences in moral character and intelligence.\n\nStefan Kuhl wrote that the eugenics movement rejected the racial and national hypotheses of Arthur Gobineau and his writing \"An Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races\". According to Kuhl, the eugenicists believed that nations were political and cultural constructs, not race constructs, because nations were the result of race mixtures. Vacher de Lapouge's \"anthroposociology\", asserted as self-evident the biological inferiority of particular groups (Kevles 1985). In many parts of the world, the idea of race became a way of rigidly dividing groups by culture as well as by physical appearances (Hannaford 1996). Campaigns of oppression and genocide were often motivated by supposed racial differences (Horowitz 2001).\n\nDuring the late 19th century and early 20th century, the tension between some who believed in hierarchy and innate superiority, and others who believed in human equality, was at a paramount. The former continued to exacerbate the belief that certain races were innately inferior by examining their shortcomings, namely by examining and testing intelligence between groups. Some scientists claimed that there was a biological determinant of race by evaluating one's genes and DNA. Different methods of eugenics, the study and practice of human selective breeding often with a race as a primary concentration, was still widely accepted in Britain, Germany, and the United States. On the other hand, many scientists understood race as a social construct. They believed that the phenotypical expression of an individual were determined by one's genes that are inherited through reproduction but there were certain social constructs, such as culture, environment, and language that were primary in shaping behavioral characteristics. Some advocated that race 'should centre not on what race explains about society, but rather on the questions of who, why and with what effect social significance is attached to racial attributes that are constructed in particular political and socio-economic contexts', and thus, addressing the \"folk\" or \"mythological representations\" of race.\n\nAfter Louis Agassiz (1807–1873) traveled to the United States, he became a prolific writer in what has been later termed the genre of scientific racism. Agassiz was specifically a believer and advocate in polygenism, that races came from separate origins (specifically separate creations), were endowed with unequal attributes, and could be classified into specific climatic zones, in the same way he felt other animals and plants could be classified.\n\nThese included Western American Temperate (the indigenous peoples west of the Rockies); Eastern American Temperate (east of the Rockies); Tropical Asiatic (south of the Himalayas); Temperate Asiatic (east of the Urals and north of the Himalayas); South American Temperate (South America); New Holland (Australia); Arctic (Alaska and Arctic Canada); Cape of Good Hope (South Africa); and American Tropical (Central America and the West Indies).\n\nAgassiz denied that species originated in single pairs, whether at a single location or at many. He argued instead multiple individuals in each species were created at the same time and then distributed throughout the continents where God meant for them to dwell. His lectures on polygenism were popular among the slaveholders in the South, for many this opinion legitimized the belief in a lower standard of the Negro.\n\nHis stance in this case was considered to be quite radical in its time, because it went against the more orthodox and standard reading of the Bible in his time which implied all human stock descended from a single couple (Adam and Eve), and in his defense Agassiz often used what now sounds like a very \"modern\" argument about the need for independence between science and religion; though Agassiz, unlike many polygeneticists, maintained his religious beliefs and was not anti-Biblical in general.\n\nIn the context of ethnology and anthropology of the mid-19th century, Agassiz's polygenetic views became explicitly seen as opposing Darwin's views on race, which sought to show the common origin of all human races and the superficiality of racial differences. Darwin's second book on evolution, The Descent of Man, features extensive argumentation addressing the single origin of the races, at times explicitly opposing Agassiz's theories.\n\nArthur de Gobineau (1816–1882) was a successful diplomat for the French Second Empire. Initially he was posted to Persia, before working in Brazil and other countries. He came to believe that race created culture, arguing that distinctions between the three \"black\", \"white\", and \"yellow\" races were natural barriers, and that \"race-mixing\" breaks those barriers and leads to chaos. He classified the Middle East, Central Asia, the Indian subcontinent, North Africa, and southern France as racially mixed.\n\nGobineau believed the white race was superior to the others. He thought it corresponded to the ancient Indo-European culture, also known as \"Aryan\". Gobineau originally wrote that white race miscegenation was inevitable. He attributed much of the economic turmoils in France to pollution of races. Later on in his life, he altered his opinion to believe that the white race could be saved.\n\nTo Gobineau, the development of empires was ultimately destructive to the \"superior races\" that created them, since they led to the mixing of distinct races. This he saw as a degenerative process.\n\nAccording to his definitions, the people of Spain, most of France, most of Germany, southern and western Iran as well as Switzerland, Austria, northern Italy, and a large part of Britain, consisted of a degenerative race arising from miscegenation. Also according to him, the whole of north India consisted of a yellow race.\n\nThomas Huxley (1825 –1895) wrote one paper, \"On the Geographical Distribution of the Chief Modifications of Mankind\" (1870), in which he proposed a distinction within the human species ('races'), and their distribution across the earth. He also acknowledged that certain geographical areas with more complex ethnic compositions, including much of the Horn of Africa and the India subcontinent, did not fit into his racial paradigm. As such, he noted that: \"I have purposely omitted such people as the Abyssinians and the Hindoos, who there is every reason to believe result from the intermixture of distinct stocks.\" By the late nineteenth century, Huxley's Xanthochroi group had been redefined as the Nordic race, whereas his Melanochroi became the Mediterranean race. His Melanochroi thus eventually also comprised various other dark Caucasoid populations, including the Hamites (e.g. Berbers, Somalis, northern Sudanese, ancient Egyptians) and Moors.\n\nHuxley's paper was rejected by the Royal Society, and this became one of the many theories to be advanced and dropped by the early exponents of evolution.\n\nDespite rejection by Huxley and the science community, the paper is sometimes cited in support of racialism. Along with Darwin, Huxley was a monogenist, the belief that all humans are part of the same species, with morphological variations emerging out of an initial uniformity. (Stepan, p. 44). This view contrasts polygenism, the theory that each race is actually a separate species with separate sites of origin.\n\nDespite Huxley's monogenism and his abolitionism on ethical grounds, Huxley assumed a hierarchy of innate abilities, a stance evinced in papers such as \"Emancipation Black and White\" and his most famous paper, \"Evolution and Ethics\".\n\nIn the former, he writes that the \"highest places in the hierarchy of civilization will assuredly not be within the reach of our dusky cousins, though it is by no means necessary that they should be restricted to the lowest\". (Stepan, p. 79–80).\nThough Charles Darwin's evolutionary theory was set forth in 1859 upon publication of \"On the Origin of Species\", this work was largely absent of explicit reference to Darwin’s theory applied to man. This application by Darwin would not become explicit until 1871 with the publication of his second great book on evolution, \"The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex\".\n\nDarwin's publication of this book occurred within the heated debates between advocates of monogeny, who held that all races came from a common ancestor, and advocates of polygeny, who held that the races were separately created. Darwin, who had come from a family with strong abolitionist ties, had experienced and was disturbed by cultures of slavery during his voyage on the Beagle years earlier. Noted Darwin biographers Adrian Desmond and James Moore argue that Darwin's writings on evolution were not only influenced by his abolitionist tendencies, but also his belief that non-white races were equal in regard to their intellectual capacity as white races, a belief which had been strongly disputed by scientists such as Morton, Agassiz and Broca, all noted polygenists.\n\nBy the late 1860s, however, Darwin's theory of evolution had been thought to be compatible with the polygenist thesis (Stepan 1982). Darwin thus used \"Descent of Man\" to disprove the polygenist thesis and end the debate between polygeny and monogeny once and for all. Darwin also used it to disprove other hypotheses about racial difference that had persisted since the time of ancient Greece, for example, that differences in skin color and body constitution occurred because of differences of geography and climate.\n\nDarwin concluded, for example, that the biological similarities between the different races were \"too great\" for the polygenist thesis to be plausible. He also used the idea of races to argue for the continuity between humans and animals, noting that it would be highly implausible that man should, by mere accident acquire characteristics shared by many apes.\n\nDarwin sought to demonstrate that the physical characteristics that were being used to define race for centuries (i.e. skin color and facial features) were superficial and had no utility for survival. Because, according to Darwin, any characteristic that did not have survival value could not have been naturally selected, he devised another hypothesis for the development and persistence of these characteristics. The mechanism Darwin developed is known as sexual selection.\n\nThough the idea of sexual selection had appeared in earlier works by Darwin, it was not until the late 1860s when it received full consideration (Stepan 1982). Furthermore, it was not until 1914 that sexual selection received serious consideration as a racial theory by naturalist thinkers.\n\nDarwin defined sexual selection as the \"struggle between individuals of one sex, generally the males, for the possession of the other sex\". Sexual selection consisted of two types for Darwin: 1.) The physical struggle for a mate, and 2.) The preference for some color or another, typically by females of a given species. Darwin asserted that the differing human races (insofar as race was conceived phenotypically) had arbitrary standards of ideal beauty, and that these standards reflected important physical characteristics sought in mates.\n\nBroadly speaking, Darwin's attitudes of what race was and how it developed in the human species are attributable to two assertions, 1.) That all human beings, regardless of race share a single, common ancestor and 2.) Phenotypic racial differences are superficially selected, and have no survival value. Given these two beliefs, some believe Darwin to have established monogenism as the dominant paradigm for racial ancestry, and to have defeated the scientific racism practiced by Morton, Knott, Agassiz et. Al, as well as notions that there existed a natural racial hierarchy that reflected inborn differences and measures of value between the different human races.\nNevertheless, he stated: \"The various races, when carefully compared and measured, differ much from each other – as in the texture of hair, the relative proportions of all parts of the body, the capacity of the lungs, the form and capacity of the skull, and even the convolutions of the brain. But it would be an endless task to specify the numerous points of difference. The races differ also in constitution, in acclimatization and in liability to certain diseases. Their mental characteristics are likewise very distinct; chiefly as it would appear in their emotion, but partly in their intellectual faculties.\" (\"The Descent of Man\", chapter VII).\n\nIn \"The Descent of Man\", Darwin noted the great difficulty naturalists had in trying to decide how many \"races\" there actually were:\nMan has been studied more carefully than any other animal, and yet there is the greatest possible diversity amongst capable judges whether he should be classed as a single species or race, or as two (Virey), as three (Jacquinot), as four (Kant), five (Blumenbach), six (Buffon), seven (Hunter), eight (Agassiz), eleven (Pickering), fifteen (Bory St. Vincent), sixteen (Desmoulins), twenty-two (Morton), sixty (Crawfurd), or as sixty-three, according to Burke. This diversity of judgment does not prove that the races ought not to be ranked as species, but it shews that they graduate into each other, and that it is hardly possible to discover clear distinctive characters between them.\n\nSeveral social and political developments that occurred at the end of the 19th century and into the 20th century led to the transformation in the discourse of race. Three movements that historians have considered are: the coming of mass democracy, the age of imperialist expansion, and the impact of Nazism. More than any other, the violence of Nazi rule, the Holocaust, and World War II transformed the whole discussion of race. Nazism made an argument for racial superiority based on a biological basis. This led to the idea that people could be divided into discrete groups and based on the divisions, there would be severe, tortuous, and often fatal consequence. The exposition of racial theory beginning in the Third Reich, up to the Final Solution, created a popular moral revolution against racism. In 1950, and as a response to the genocide of Nazism, UNESCO was formed and released a statement saying that there was no biological determinant or basis for race.\n\nConsequently, studies of human variation focused more on actual patterns of variation and evolutionary patterns among populations and less about classification. Some scientists point to three discoveries. Firstly, African populations exhibit greater genetic diversity and less linkage disequilibrium because of their long history. Secondly, genetic similarity is directly correlated with geographic proximity. Lastly, some loci reflect selection in response to environmental gradients. Therefore, some argue, human racial groups do not appear to be distinct ethnic groups.\n\nFranz Boas (1858–1942) was a German American anthropologist and has been called the \"Father of American Anthropology\". Boas made significant contributions within anthropology, more specifically, physical anthropology, linguistics, archaeology, and cultural anthropology. His work put an emphasis on cultural and environmental effects on people to explain their development into adulthood and evaluated them in concert with human biology and evolution. This encouraged academics to break away from static taxonomical classifications of race. It is said that before Boas, anthropology was the study of race, and after Boas, anthropology was the study of culture.\n\nSir Julian Sorell Huxley (1887–1975) was an English evolutionary biologist, humanist and internationalist. After returning to England from a tour of the United States in 1924, Huxley wrote a series of articles for the \"Spectator\" which he expressed his belief in the drastic differences between \"negros\" and \"whites\". He believed that the color of \"blood\" – percentage of 'white' and 'black' blood – that a person had would determine a person's mental capacity, moral probity, and social behavior. \"Blood\" also determined how individuals should be treated by society. He was a proponent of racial inequality and segregation.\n\nBy 1930, Huxley's ideas on race and inherited intellectual capacity of human groups became more liberal. By the mid-1930s, Huxley was considered one of the leading antiracist and committed much of his time and efforts into publicizing the fight against Nazism.\n\nAlfred Cort Haddon (1855–1940) was a British anthropologist and ethnologist.\n\nIn 1935, Huxley and A. C. Haddon wrote, \"We Europeans\", which greatly popularized the struggle against racial science and attacked the Nazis' abuse of science to promote their racial theories. Although they argued that 'any biological arrangement of the types of European man is still largely a subjective process', they proposed that humankind could be divided up into \"major\" and \"minor subspecies\". They believed that races were a classification based on hereditary traits but should not by nature be used to condemn or deem inferior to another group. Like most of their peers, they continued to maintain a distinction between the social meaning of race and the scientific study of race. From a scientific stand point, they were willing to accept that concepts of superiority and inferiority did not exist, but from a social stand point, they continued to believe that racial differences were significant. For example, they argued that genetic differences between groups were functionally important for certain jobs or tasks.\n\nCarleton Stevens Coon (1904–1981) was an American physical anthropologist, Professor of Anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania, lecturer and professor at Harvard, and president of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists.\n\nIn 1939, Coon published \"The Races of Europe\", in which he concluded:\n\n\nIn 1962, Coon also published \"The Origin of Races\", wherein he offered a definitive statement of the polygenist view. He also argued that human fossils could be assigned a date, a race, and an evolutionary grade. Coon divided humanity into five races and believed that each race had ascended the ladder of human evolution at different rates.\n\nMontague Francis Ashley Montagu (1905–1999) was a British-American anthropologist. In 1942, he made a strong effort to have the word \"race\" replaced with \"ethnic group\" by publishing his book, \"Man's Most Dangerous Myth: The Fallacy of Race\". He was also selected to draft the initial 1950 UNESCO Statement on Race.\n\nMontagu would later publish \"An Introduction to Physical Anthropology\", a comprehensive treatise on human diversity. In doing so, he sought to provide a firmer scientific framework through which to discuss biological variation among populations.\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) was established November 16, 1945, in the wake of the genocide of Nazism. The UNESCO 1945 constitution declared that, \"The great and terrible war which now has ended was made possible by the denial of the democratic principles of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men, and by the propagation, in their place, through ignorance and prejudice, of the doctrine of the inequality of men and races.\" Between 1950 and 1978 the UNESCO issued five statements on the issue of race.\n\nThe first of the UNESCO statements on race was \"The Race Question\" and was issued on July 18, 1950. The statement included both a rejection of a scientific basis for theories of racial hierarchies and a moral condemnation of racism. Its first statement suggested in particular to \"drop the term 'race' altogether and speak of 'ethnic groups, which proved to be controversial. The 1950 statement was most concerned with dispelling the notion of race as species. It did not reject the idea of a biological basis to racial categories. Instead it defined the concept of race in terms as a population defined by certain anatomical and physiological characteristics as being divergent from other populations; it gives the examples of the Caucasian, Mongoloid and Negroid races. The statements maintain that there are no \"pure races\" and that biological variability was as great within any race as between races. It argued that there is no scientific basis for believing that there are any innate differences in intellectual, psychological or emotional potential among races.\n\nThe statement was drafted by Ashley Montagu and endorsed by some of the leading researchers of the time, in the fields of psychology, biology, cultural anthropology and ethnology. The statement was endorsed by Ernest Beaglehole, Juan Comas, L. A. Costa Pinto, Franklin Frazier, sociologist specialised in race relations studies, Morris Ginsberg, founding chairperson of the British Sociological Association, Humayun Kabir, writer, philosopher and Education Minister of India twice, Claude Lévi-Strauss, one of the founders of ethnology and leading theorist of structural anthropology, and Ashley Montagu, anthropologist and author of \"The Elephant Man: A Study in Human Dignity\", who was the rapporteur.\n\nAs a result of a lack of representation of physical anthropologists in the drafting committee the 1950 publication was criticized by biologists and physical anthropologists for confusing the biological and social senses of race and for going beyond the scientific facts, although there was a general agreement about the statements conclusions.\n\nUNESCO assembled a new committee with better representation of the physical sciences and drafted a new statement released in 1951. The 1951 statement, published as \"The Race Concept\", focused on race as a biological heuristic that could serve as the basis for evolutionary studies of human populations. It considered the existing races to be the result of such evolutionary processes throughout human history. It also maintained that \"equality of opportunity and equality in law in no way depend, as ethical principles, upon the assertion that human beings are in fact equal in endowment.\"\n\nAs the 1950 and 1951 statements generated considerable attention, in 1964 a new commission was formed to draft a third statement titled \"Proposals on the Biological Aspects of Race\". According to Michael Banton (2008), this statement broke more clearly with the notion of race-as-species than the previous two statements, declaring that almost any genetically differentiated population could be defined as a race. The statement stated that \"Different classifications of mankind into major stocks, and of those into more restricted categories (races, which are groups of populations, or single populations) have been proposed on the basis of hereditary physical traits. Nearly all classifications recognise at least three major stocks\" and \"There is no national, religious, geographic, linguistic or cultural group which constitutes a race ipso facto; the concept of race is purely biological.\" It concluded with \"The biological data given above stand in open contradiction to the tenets of racism. Racist theories can in no way pretend to have any scientific foundation.\"\n\nThe 1950, '51 and '64 statements focused on the dispelling the scientific foundations for racism but did not consider other factors contributing to racism. For this reason, in 1967 a new committee was assembled, including representatives of the social sciences (sociologists, lawyers, ethnographers and geneticists), to draft a statement \"covering the social, ethical and philosophical aspects of the problem\". This statement was the first to provide a definition of racism: \"antisocial beliefs and acts which are based upon the fallacy that discriminatory intergroup relations are justifiable on biological grounds\". The statement continued to denounce the many negative social affects of racism.\n\nIn 1978 the general assembly of the UNESCO considered the four previous statements and published a collective \"Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice\". This declaration included Apartheid as one of the examples of racism, an inclusion which caused South Africa to step out of the assembly. It declared that a number of public policies and laws needed to be implemented. It stated that:\n\nThe 20th-century criticism of racial anthropology were significantly based on the school of Franz Boas, professor of anthropology at Columbia University from 1899, who beginning in 1920 strongly favoured the influence of social environment over heritability. As a reaction to the rise of Nazi Germany and its prominent espousing of racist ideologies in the 1930s, there was an outpouring of popular works by scientists criticizing the use of race to justify the politics of \"superiority\" and \"inferiority\". An influential work in this regard was the publication of \"We Europeans: A Survey of \"Racial\" Problems\" by Julian Huxley and A. C. Haddon in 1935, which sought to show that population genetics allowed for only a highly limited definition of race at best. Another popular work during this period, \"The Races of Mankind\" by Ruth Benedict and Gene Weltfish, argued that though there were some extreme racial differences, they were primarily superficial, and in any case did not justify political action.\n\nClaude Lévi-Strauss' \"Race and History\" (UNESCO, 1952) was another critique of the biological \"race\" notion, arguing in favor of cultural relativism through a metaphor of cultures as different trains crossing each other in various directions and speed, thus each one seeming to progress to himself while others supposedly kept immobile. This, in his view, clearly showed that \"race\" was no longer a useful indicator of cultural superiority.\n\nIn his 1984 article in the \"Essence\" magazine, \"On Being 'White' ... and Other Lies\", James Baldwin reads the history of racialization in America as both figuratively and literally violent, remarking that \"race\" only exists as a social construction within a network of force relations: \"America became white — the people who, as they claim, 'settled' the country became white — because of the necessity of denying the Black presence, and justifying the Black subjugation. No community can be based on such a principle — or, in other words, no community can be established on so genocidal a lie. White men from Norway, for example, where they were Norwegians — became white: by slaughtering the cattle, poisoning the well, torching the houses, massacring Native Americans, raping Black women... Because they are white, they cannot allow themselves to be tormented by the suspicion that all men are brothers.\"\n\nApart from its function as a vernacular term, the term \"race\" – as Nancy Stepan notes in her 1982 book, \"The Idea of Race in Science, Great Britain 1800–1960\" – varied widely in its usage, even in science, from the 18th century through the 20th; the term referred \"at one time or another\" to \"cultural, religious, national, linguistic, ethnic and geographical groups of human beings\" — everything from \"Celts\" to \"Spanish Americans\" to \"Hottentots\" to \"Europeans\" (p. xvii).\n\nIn the 1979 preface to \"Blackness: Text and Pretext\", Henry Louis Gates, Jr., describes the elusive element of \"blackness\" in Afro-American literature as lacking an \"essence\", defined instead \"by a network of relations that form a particular aesthetic unity\" (p. 162). Continuing his poststructuralist-inflected negation of blackness as an essence, in his 1985 introduction to a special issue of the journal \"Critical Inquiry\", Gates goes even further, calling race itself a \"dangerous trope\" (p. 5). He argues that \"race has become a trope of the ultimate, irreducible difference between cultures, linguistic groups, or adherents of specific belief systems which — more often than not — also have fundamentally opposed economic interests\" (p. 5).\n\nLinda Gottfredson, on the other hand, has argued that denying (or trying to conceal) real biological differences between groups on average IQ instead cause people to seek something to blame for the differing average group achievements, causing resentment and hostility. She argues that \"virtually all the victim groups of genocide in the Twentieth Century had relatively \"high\" average levels of achievement.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8248727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8248727", "title": "Immigration and Checkpoints Authority", "text": "Immigration and Checkpoints Authority\n\nThe Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (Abbreviation: ICA) is the border control agency of the Singapore Government. It is a department in the Ministry of Home Affairs. ICA is responsible for securing Singapore's checkpoints against the entry of undesirable goods and people. The current commissioner of ICA is Mr. Marvin Sim.\n\nWhen the Straits Settlement was first established, immigration control was minimal to facilitate free trade. Entry control began when the colonial government enacted the Quarantine and Prevention of Disease Ordinance in 1915. In 1933, the Immigration Department was established to administer the Aliens Ordinance which placed quotas on newcomers entering Singapore. This effectively ended the freedom of travel in Singapore.\n\nOrdinance No. 5 of 1952 (The Immigration Ordinance) came into force on 1 August 1953, setting the foundation of immigration law in Singapore.The Immigration Ordinance was amended in 1959 after Singapore was granted sovereignty. The amendment gave Singaporeans the right of entry into the Colony. A new Immigration Depot was built at Telok Ayer Basin (East Wharf) while the head office was moved to Empress Place Building. Round-the-clock immigration clearance for vessels was started 1 June 1961.\n\nBirth registration started in 1872 which was then used for health and statistical purposes. However, by 1938 registration of births became compulsory by law. At the start of the second World War, the British introduced paper identity cards for the first time. This was suspended after the British surrender in 1945. The colonial government began issuing identity cards again in 1948 to counter the communist insurgency. The desire to limit the entry of those who might have communist sympathies extended to the creation of a new Immigration Bill in 1950. When Singapore merged with Malaya, Sabah and Sarawak to form the Federation of Malaysia in 1963, immigration came under the jurisdiction of the federal government and the Immigration Department became a federal agency in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nCustoms control was started when the Monopolies Department was founded in 1910 to collect excise duties on goods such as hard liquors and opium. In 1916, the colonial government began taxing tobacco products on import to raise funds for the war effort. In 1932, the Customs headquarters was shifted to the Customs House from Cecil Street. The Excise Department replaced the Monopolies Department in 1936 and in 1938, the Excise Department was renamed the Department of Customs & Excise.\n\nAfter Singapore separated from Malaysia on 9 August 1965, freedom of movement continued to exist between the two countries for a short period of time. Two border checkpoints were gazetted for travel between the two countries. They were the Tanjong Pagar Railway Station and the Woodlands Checkpoint. Malaysians had to produce identity cards to be able to enter Singapore, until passports were required on both sides in July 1967. To travel to Peninsular Malaysia, the Singapore restricted passport and the Singapore Certificate of Identity was required. The Restricted Passport Centre was at South Quay and was moved to Outram Road in 1976, but closed on 31 December 1994.\n\nIn the 1970s, illegal immigration and over-stayers became a serious problem in Singapore. A task force was set up in 1974 to deal with the immigration problem. Laws were introduced that allowed immigration officers to seize and detain vessels and vehicles used to convey illegal immigrants. Those who harboured or employed illegal immigrants could also be punished. Data on foreigners' movements within Singapore were processed by the new Immigration Data Processing Centre.\n\nThe Last Port Clearance was introduced in 1980 to attract more passenger liners to Singapore.\n\nA passport office was opened at Joo Chiat Complex in 1984. This office issued both international and restricted passports and was closed in 1999. The Immigration Department moved its head office to the Pidemco Centre in June 1986. Immigration officers were also deployed to places such as India and Hong Kong to open consulates and high commissions. All passports issued by Singapore immigration after 1990 were computerised and machine-readable. The Entry and Exit Control Integrated System implemented in the early 1990s was a computerized immigration system that was used at checkpoints to speed up the processing of travelers. A hotline for information was set up in 1992, with restricted access to countries lifted.\n\nThe independence of Singapore in 1965 brought with it the National Registration Act in 1966. The distinctive pink identity cards were issued for the first time. The National Registration Office (NRO) replaced the former Registry of Persons.\n\nAt the time, the NRO and the Registry of Births and Deaths (RBD) came under the former Ministry of Labour. The Registry of Societies (ROS), Martial Arts Control Unit (MACU) came under the Ministry of Home Affairs. On 16 October 1981, the NRO, RBD, ROC, MACU and ROS merged to form the National Registration Department (NRD). The NRD consisted of four registries: the Registry of Births and Deaths, the Registry of Citizens, the Registry of Societies and the National Registration Office. The NRD was located at the Empress Place Building until 1986 when the building was transformed into the now defunct Empress Place Museum.\n\nTobacco, liquor, motor vehicles and petroleum became restricted goods after Singapore was granted independence as a sovereign nation. The Customs and Excise Department (CED) cooperated closely with other government agencies such as the Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority and the Central Narcotics Bureau. When the GST was introduced in 1994, the work scope of the CED was expanded. The red and green channel customs system was implemented in 1991 at Singapore Changi Airport and at sea checkpoints.\n\nThe CED was located first at Cecil Street from 1910 till 1932 and later the White House at Maxwell Road from 1932 until 1989 when it moved to World Trade Centre (now HarbourFront Centre).\n\nIn 1995, the Immigration Department was renamed Singapore Immigration. An immigration checkpoint was established at the Changi Ferry Terminal in May that year. There was a change in the passport application and collection in the 1990s, reducing the need for applicants to report to the building. To further reduce that need, applications by mail and internet were introduced and rebates were given for such applications.\n\nA new logo was launched by then-Minister for Home Affairs Wong Kan Seng at the foundation stone ceremony at the SI Building in 1995. The West Coast Barter Trade Centre closed in June 1995. Singaporeans were sent renewal forms for passports nine months before their passports expired.\n\nSI became an autonomous agency in 1996 as well as launching its first website. All immigration offices moved from the Pidemco Centre to the new building at Kallang Road in 1997. The Singapore Immigration and the National Registration Department merged to form Singapore Immigration & Registration in 1998. A new land checkpoint at Tuas was opened on 2 January.\n\nOn April 2003, SIR and the border control functions of CED were merged to form ICA in response to the 9/11 attacks and the Jemaah Islamiyah plots. The remaining functions of the CED was reorganised and renamed into Singapore Customs. ICA was to be part of the Home Team and a new, blue uniform was introduced to reflect that change. The first Commissioner of ICA was Lock Wai Han, who was in the Singapore Police Force before he oversaw the merger of the two agencies.\n\nICA's first major challenge came with the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) epidemic in 2003, testing the agency's ability to control Singapore's borders and screen passengers for contagious diseases.\n\nIn 2005, the then-Director CNB Eric Tan became the Commissioner of ICA.\n\nIn 2010, Deputy Commissioner Clarence Yeo became the Commissioner of ICA.\n\nOn 2 January 2015, the Integrated Checkpoints Command concept was introduced. Under the Integrated Checkpoints Command, ICA checkpoints are split into three domains: Land, Sea and Air. Each domain is headed by a Domain Commander who reports directly to the Commissioner. All Home Team agencies deployed at the checkpoints must report to the Domain Commander.\n\nIn March 2017, it was announced that Woodlands Town Centre would be absorbed by the new Woodlands Checkpoint extension.\n\nOn 1 April 2018 the amended Immigration Act was introduced. ICA officers would now perform roles as first responders. The amendment gave immigration officers the legal powers of police officers in relation to offences committed in the vicinity of checkpoints.\n\nOn 3 September 2018, Marvin Sim became the Commissioner of ICA. He was previously senior director of Joint Operations Group at MHA and a deputy director at CNB.\n\nICA oversees all immigration and registration matters in Singapore with the exception of work passes which is under the purview of the Ministry of Manpower. At its Kallang Road headquarters, services are provided from \"cradle to grave\", starting from birth registration to the issuance of identity cards and finally to the registering of deaths. At the various checkpoints of Singapore, ICA carries out its border control duties on both goods and people.\n\nICA officers primarily enforce the Immigration Act (Cap 133) and the Passports Act (Cap 220). Immigration officers are authorised to act on behalf of the Controller of Immigration (who is de facto the Commissioner of ICA).Officers may also be empowered as registration officers under the National Registration Act (Cap 201).\n\nImmigration officers can prohibit entry to any person or class of persons for any reason related to the conditions of Singapore. Since 2018, immigration officers have limited policing powers within the checkpoints and in their immediate vicinity. Under the ICC concept, ICA is ultimately responsible for border security at Singapore's checkpoints.\n\nTo facilitate entry for aliens arriving in Singapore, ICA issues a variety of passes. The most common is the social visit pass, which allows aliens to remain in country for a specified number of days. Other types of passes include student passes, dependent's passes, landing passes and special passes.\n\nICA officers deployed as cargo and baggage examination officers are empowered under the Customs Act (Cap 70) to search people and conveyances at any checkpoint. They can then seize any controlled items or contraband found before referring them to the appropriate Controlling Agency such as Singapore Customs or the Central Narcotics Bureau. The most common contraband are duty-unpaid cigarettes and tobacco products due to the high duties imposed on them. Other examples include narcotics, replica firearms, wild animals and unlicensed medicine.\n\nImmigration offenders are referred to ICA's Enforcement Division (ED) which oversees investigation, prosecution and repatriation matters. Prosecution officers work together with public prosecutors at the Attorney-General's Chambers to ensure that offenders are lawfully detained and given trial. Examples of common offences include the harbouring of immigration offenders, employing immigrants illegally or entering marriages of convenience. Home owners who have been found guilty of renting their houses to immigration offenders and not carrying out one or more of the mandatory checks may be sentenced to a jail term, fine or both.\n\nICA is Singapore's first line of defence against potential terrorist threats by restricting the movement of security sensitive personnel across borders. After the escape of Mas Selamat in 2008, all checkpoints immediately stepped up security checks. During the lead-up to the 2018 Trump-Kim Summit, Home Affairs Minister K. Shanmugam revealed that four people had been turned away at the checkpoints for terrorism related reasons.\n\nICA is part of the Inter-Agency Coordination Group within the Republic of Singapore Navy's Maritime Security Task Force. ICA participated in the 2011 Exercise Northstar, in which immigration officers boarded ships to check for immigration offenders, firearms and explosives. ICA also participated in the 2013 Exercise Highcrest which simulated terrorist attacks on one of Singapore's checkpoints.\n\nICA has three services centres which caters to the different demographics in Singapore.\n\nThe Citizen Services Centre issues the pink National Registration Identity Card (NRIC), the certificate of citizenship and the Singapore passport. The Registry of Births and Deaths is also under the Citizen Services Centre.\n\nThe Permanent Resident Centre issues the blue NRIC for permanent residents as well as entry and re-entry permits.\n\nThe Visitor Services Centre issues visit pass extensions, visas and long term visit passes.\n\nICA is divided into staff and line units. Staff units are involved in manpower, training and corporate services. Line units deal with the front-line operations of ICA. The senior executive management is called the Leadership Group (LG).\n\n\nThe Old Woodlands Checkpoint is closed to most traffic except for motorcycles and lorries carrying cargo.\n\n\n\nICA's Coastal Command is the largest command in ICA in terms of the number of checkpoints, stretching from the East to the West of the country. Marina Bay Cruise Centre Singapore is the newest checkpoint in ICA and is only open when there is a visiting cruise ship.\n\n\nImmigration officers in ICA are considered public servants by law and are part of the Singapore Civil Service.\n\nImmigration officers in ICA are divided generally into junior officers and senior officers. Under the current Home Affairs Services (HAS) (ICA) Unified scheme, new junior officers and senior officers join as Direct-Entry Sergeants and Direct-Entry Inspectors respectively. Direct-Entry Sergeants range from ITE graduates to polytechnic diploma holders. Direct-Entry Inspectors must be graduates from a university accredited by its home country. New Sergeants will become Primary Screening Officers, while Inspectors will become Team Leaders in their foundation posting. Regardless, all new officers will be posted to Tuas, Woodlands or Coastal Command.\n\nAll ICA direct-entry Sergeants and Inspectors must attend and pass the ICA Basic Course which is held regularly at the Home Team Academy. The Basic Course includes lessons on document examination, basic unarmed combat and basic firearms training. The Basic Course lasts twenty weeks for Direct-Entry Inspectors and sixteen weeks for Direct-Entry Sergeants. Both courses are non-residential, are fully paid-for the duration of the courses and trainees will receive their substantive rank pay as well. In return, officers have to serve bonds of one to two years after graduation. Direct-Entry Sergeants also receive sign-on bonuses and retention pay-outs. To remain in service, officers will have to pass law examinations and a firearms shooting test.\n\nAdvanced courses are also conducted by ICA's Training Command. Direct Entry Sergeants are typically trained into specialists in different fields such as profiling, cargo examination and firearms shooting. Senior officers will first be exposed to ICA's ground operations before being to enforcement, service or staff units. Overseas postings at Singapore's consulates are also available. Furthermore, suitable officers at any level below that of Inspector may also secure scholarships and promotion into the rank of senior officers as part of the new unified scheme.\n\nThere is also a separate scheme for Management Executives who are deployed to the Services Centres. These officers are not considered immigration officers and do not don the blue uniform.\n\nBefore the merger, both SIR and CED had their own distinct rank progression. However, they were similar in that there was a separate scheme for Senior and Junior officers. This continued to be the case post-merger until 2017.\n\nSince 2017, ICA officer ranks have fallen under the HAS (ICA) Unified scheme. All Immigration officers are placed under this scheme regardless of education level.\n\nAs part of the unified scheme, the ranks of Corporal and Staff Sergeant were collapsed into a single Sergeant rank with numerical increments. The ranks of Senior Checkpoint Inspector were removed and suitable Checkpoint Inspectors would be promoted to Inspectors instead. A new rank, Deputy Assistant Commissioner was added to provide more opportunities for officers at the middle management level.\n\nAt present, ICA ranks follow those in the Singapore Police Force with some exceptions in insignia and ranks (see table below).\n\nUnder Section 38A of the Immigration Act, all immigration officers shall be issued arms and ammunition as necessary. In practice, only qualified officers serving in security related roles are issued firearms.\n\nThe service firearm is the 5-shot Taurus Model 85 revolver. Other equipment include handcuffs, flexicuffs and expandable batons.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Singapore Immigration had a brown and cream uniform. The colour of the uniforms did not vary for more than 20 years, with only modifications in style. In 1997, uniforms in green and white were introduced.\n\nIn 1996, the Customs uniforms and accessories were changed to a shade of blue reminiscent of the current design.\n\nIn 2003, the uniform was updated to its current design. The uniform became Navy Blue, which was chosen to establish ICA as a member of the Home Team. The uniform comes in different designs to suit the varied operating environments of ICA. The basic uniform consists of a short-sleeved dress shirt and pants with a dress or duty belt as appropriate. This uniform can be most often seen in the Land and Sea Domain. Senior officers typically wear a bush jacket (for men) or a tunic (for women). A dress skirt is available for staff officers as well. Air Domain officers wear two-piece suits with ties, while sea-going clearance officers wear long-sleeve coastal uniforms that resemble the SAF's Number 4 uniform. Cargo examination officers are issued polo shirts bearing the ICA logo.\n\nICA integrates information technology to streamline the entry and exit procedure at checkpoints. Singapore citizens, permanent residents and other registered travelers can use automated lanes called enhanced-Immigration Automated Clearance System (eIACS). The Biometric Identification of Motorbikers (BIKES) System at ICA's land checkpoints can be used by residents and work pass holders entering and leaving Singapore by motorcycles.\n\nIn 2018, the ICA released the MyICA app which allowed citizens to process multiple transactions in a single payment.\n\nICA has constantly implemented the use of biometric verification to improve security at its checkpoints. In 1997, the Checkpoint Access Cards used fingerprint data to facilitate entry. In October 2006, ICA began issuing biometric passports to Singapore citizens. In 2016, ICA began the biometric registering and verification of travelers using the Bioscreen system. In October 2017, ICA started issuance of new biometric passports that comes with additional security features. This marked the second series of biometrics passports issued by Singapore. Singapore citizens and Permanent Residents have their iris bio-data registered as well.\n\nAt Changi Airport's Terminal 4, there are Automated Immigration Gates (AIGs) which allow foreigners one-time use of automated immigration clearance.\n\nICA was featured in the MediaCorp Channel 5 action drama series \"Point of Entry\".\n\nIn 2017, the Singapore passport was reported to be the most powerful passport in the world.\n"}
{"id": "14626735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14626735", "title": "Income disparity in Malaysia", "text": "Income disparity in Malaysia\n\nAccording to the UNDP 1997 Human Development Report, and the 2004 United Nations Human Development (UNHDP) report, Malaysia has the highest income disparity between the rich and poor in Southeast Asia, greater than that of Philippines, Thailand, Singapore, Vietnam and Indonesia.\n\nThe UNHDP Report shows that the richest 10% in Malaysia control 38.4% of the economic income as compared to the poorest 10% who control only 1.7%. However, according to official statistics from the Prime Minister's Department, inequality has been decreasing steadily since 1970, with the Gini coefficient dropping to an all-time low of 0.40 in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "58186656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58186656", "title": "Infant Welfare Society of Chicago", "text": "Infant Welfare Society of Chicago\n\nThe Infant Welfare Society of Chicago promotes the welfare of infants in the Chicago area of the United States. It was established in 1911 by the staff and volunteers of the Chicago Milk Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "51101136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51101136", "title": "Jade Mills", "text": "Jade Mills\n\nJade Mills is an American real estate agent, president of Jade Mills Estates, and the International Ambassador for Coldwell Banker Previews. In 2012, Mills became the #1 real estate agent worldwide for Coldwell Banker, with over $360 million in sales. Mills' clients include Hollywood celebrities like Britney Spears, Jennifer Aniston, Charlie Sheen, and Sela Ward.\nMills' first sale was a home for $42,000 in Van Nuys. She has appeared on Bloomberg TV and Fox News as a real estate expert. She serves as a board member for the Beverly Hills Chamber of Commerce and on the Board of Governors at Cedars Sinai Hospital.\n\nMills is the daughter of a dairy farmer from Alamo, California.\nShe has been married three times; her third husband, Adam Mills, works for her. , she has four children and five grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "15653245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15653245", "title": "Japanization", "text": "Japanization\n\nJapanization is the process in which Japanese culture dominates, assimilates, or influences other cultures, in general. According to \"The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language\", \"Japanize\" means \"To make or become Japanese in form, idiom, style, or character\".\n\nIn modern sense and day, many countries in East Asia particularly South Korea and Taiwan, has absorbed and incorporated Japanese popular culture such as music and video for many years after Japanese growth during the 1980s and 1990s. Many Japanese films, especially soap operas are popular in South Korea, Taiwan and China among the younger generations after the movies are translated to their local languages. Japanese electronic products and food are found throughout East Asia (except for North Korea) and Singapore\n\nIn terms of World War II and military conquests, Japanization takes a negative meaning because of military conquests and forced introduction of Japanese culture by the government.\n\nDuring pre-imperial (pre-1868) period a peaceful diplomacy was practiced during which Japan did not expand much in territories beyond its own islands.\n\nAfter the Meiji Restoration in 1868, Japan began to follow the way of the western imperialism and expansionism. in 1879, Japan officially annexed the Ryūkyū Kingdom, which was a tributary kingdom of both the Qing Dynasty and the Empire of Japan.\n\nThough the Ryukyuan languages belong to the Japonic language family, the Japanese language is not intelligible to the monolingual speakers of the Ryukyuan languages. The Japanese government began to promote the language \"standardization\" program and took the Ryukyuan languages as dialects. In schools, \"standard\" Japanese was promoted, and there were portraits of the Japanese Emperor and Empress were introduced. Many high-ranking Japanese military officers went to inspect Okinawan schools to ensure that the Japanization was functioning well in the education system. This measure did not meet the expected success at the beginning, partly because many local children's share of their heavy family labor impedes their presence in schools, and partly because people of the old Okinawan leading class received a more Chinese-styled education and were not interested in learning \"standard\" Japanese. As measures of assimilation, the Japanese government also discouraged some local customs.\n\nAt the beginning, these assimilation measures met stronger reluctance of local people. However, after China was defeated in the First Sino-Japanese War in 1895, people lost their confidence in China, and the reluctance against the Japanization, though it did not disappear, became weaker. Men and women began to adopt more Japanese-styled names.\n\nTaiwan was ceded to the Empire of Japan in 1895 as a result of the First Sino-Japanese War. At the beginning, Taiwan was governed rather like a colony. In 1936, following the arrival of the 17th governor-general, Seizō Kobayashi, there was a change in the Japanese governance in Taiwan.\n\nKobayashi was the first non-civilian governor-general since 1919. He proposed three principles of the new governance: the , industrialization, and making Taiwan as a base for the southward expansion.\n\n\"Kōminka\" literally means \"to make people become subjects of the emperor\". The program itself had three components. First, the promoted the Japanese language by teaching Japanese instead of Taiwanese Hokkien in the schools and by banning the use of Taiwanese Hokkien in the press. Second, the replaced Taiwanese's Chinese names with Japanese names. Finally, the drafted Taiwanese subjects into the Imperial Japanese Army and encouraged them to die in service of the emperor.\n\nIn Korea during the Second World War the use of written Korean in education and publication was banned by the Empire of Japan, but this did not cause a significant change in the use of the Korean language, which remained widely used throughout the colonisation.\n\n"}
{"id": "42405125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42405125", "title": "Kalininskyi District, Donetsk", "text": "Kalininskyi District, Donetsk\n\nKalininskyi District () is an urban district of the city of Donetsk, Ukraine, named after a Soviet political figure Mikhail Kalinin.\n\n"}
{"id": "53447461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53447461", "title": "Lynda Grose", "text": "Lynda Grose\n\nLynda Grose is a designer in fashion and sustainability, educator, and consultant known for her pioneering work in sustainable fashion design.\n\nIn 1990 Grose co-founded Esprit’s ecollection division, a five-year research and development project marketed in 13 countries, which is cited \"as the first ecologically responsible clothing line developed by a major corporation\" and in doing so, Grose \"set pioneering standards for the textile industry\". Her Ecollection was founded in response to Esprit's company-wide focus on environmental awareness, begun by Esprit co-founder Doug Tompkins. Grose's project began by researching the environmental impact of making Esprit clothing - from growing fibers, to dyeing, manufacturing and garment finishing. The Ecollection used organic cotton, and less toxic dyes as a first step. Grose also began contracting with crafts cooperatives to hand-knit sweaters and make buttons and jewelry from tagua nuts. Grose believed that community development and fair treatment of textile workers was as important a part of the project as using more sustainable materials.\n\nGrose is Professor and Chair of the Fashion Design program at California College of the Arts. She is a founding member of The Center for Sustainable Design, Surrey, England, and the International Society for Sustainable Design, and the Sustainable Cotton Project.\n\nLynda Grose co-authored with Dr. Kate Fletcher the book \"Fashion and Sustainability Design for Change\". She has published in journals and magazines and has contributed to 'Opening up the Wardrobe: a methods book' (Novus), 'Fashion Fibers: Designing for Sustainability', (Bloomsbury), 'The Routledge Handbook on Sustainable Fashion\" (Routledge), \"Sustainable Textiles: Life Cycle and Environmental Impact\" (Woodhouse Publishing, London), and \"Sustainability in Fashion and Textiles: Values, Design, Production and Consumption\" (Greenleaf Publishing).\n\nIn 2007, she was listed on \"Grist’s\" list of “15 Green Fashionistas\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21133", "title": "NATO", "text": "NATO\n\nThe North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO ; ; '), also called the North Atlantic Alliance, is an intergovernmental military alliance between 29 North American and European countries. The organization implements the North Atlantic Treaty that was signed on 4 April 1949. NATO constitutes a system of collective defence whereby its independent member states agree to mutual defence in response to an attack by any external party. NATO’s Headquarters are located in Haren, Brussels, Belgium, while the headquarters of Allied Command Operations is near Mons, Belgium.\n\nSince its founding, the admission of new member states has increased the alliance from the original 12 countries to 29. The most recent member state to be added to NATO is Montenegro on 5 June 2017. NATO currently recognizes Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Macedonia and Ukraine as aspiring members. An additional 21 countries participate in NATO's Partnership for Peace program, with 15 other countries involved in institutionalized dialogue programs. The combined military spending of all NATO members constitutes over 70% of the global total. Members have committed to reach or maintain defense spending of at least 2% of GDP by 2024.\n\nOn 4 March 1947 the Treaty of Dunkirk was signed by France and the United Kingdom as a \"Treaty of Alliance and Mutual Assistance\" in the event of a possible attack by Germany or the Soviet Union in the aftermath of World War II. In 1948, this alliance was expanded to include the Benelux countries, in the form of the Western Union, also referred to as the Brussels Treaty Organization (BTO), established by the Treaty of Brussels. Talks for a new military alliance which could also include North America resulted in the signature of the North Atlantic Treaty on 4 April 1949 by the member states of the Western Union plus the United States, Canada, Portugal, Italy, Norway, Denmark and Iceland.\n\nThe North Atlantic Treaty was largely dormant until the Korean War initiated the establishment of NATO to implement it, by means of an integrated military structure: This included the formation of Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) in 1951, which adopted the Western Union's military structures and plans. In 1952 the post of Secretary General of NATO was established as the organization's chief civilian, the first major NATO maritime exercises began; Exercise Mainbrace, and Greece and Turkey acceded. In 1955 West Germany was also incorporated into NATO, which resulted in the creation of the Soviet-dominated Warsaw Pact, delineating the two opposing sides of the Cold War.\n\nDoubts over the strength of the relationship between the European states and the United States ebbed and flowed, along with doubts over the credibility of the NATO defense against a prospective Soviet invasion – doubts that led to the development of the independent French nuclear deterrent and the withdrawal of France from NATO's military structure in 1966. In 1982 the newly democratic Spain joined the alliance.\n\nThe collapse of the Warsaw Pact in 1989-1991 removed the \"de facto\" main adversary of NATO and caused a strategic re-evaluation of NATO's purpose, nature, tasks, and their focus on the continent of Europe. This shift started with the 1990 signing in Paris of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe between NATO and the Soviet Union, which mandated specific military reductions across the continent that continued after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in December 1991. At that time, European countries accounted for 34 percent of NATO's military spending; by 2012, this had fallen to 21 percent. NATO also began a gradual expansion to include newly autonomous Central and Eastern European nations, and extended its activities into political and humanitarian situations that had not formerly been NATO concerns.\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall in Germany in 1989, the organization conducted its first military interventions in Bosnia from 1992 to 1995 and later Yugoslavia in 1999 during the breakup of Yugoslavia. Politically, the organization sought better relations with former Warsaw Pact countries, most of which joined the alliance in 1999 and 2004. , requiring member states to come to the aid of any member state subject to an armed attack, was invoked for the first and only time after the September 11 attacks, after which troops were deployed to Afghanistan under the NATO-led ISAF. The organization has operated a range of additional roles since then, including sending trainers to Iraq, assisting in counter-piracy operations and in 2011 enforcing a no-fly zone over Libya in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1973. The less potent Article 4, which merely invokes consultation among NATO members, has been invoked five times following incidents in the Iraq War, Syrian Civil War, and annexation of Crimea.\n\nThe first post-Cold War expansion of NATO came with German reunification on 3 October 1990, when the former East Germany became part of the Federal Republic of Germany and the alliance. As part of post-Cold War restructuring, NATO's military structure was cut back and reorganized, with new forces such as the Headquarters Allied Command Europe Rapid Reaction Corps established. The changes brought about by the collapse of the Soviet Union on the military balance in Europe were recognized in the Adapted Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty, which was signed in 1999. The policies of French President Nicolas Sarkozy resulted in a major reform of France's military position, culminating with the return to full membership on 4 April 2009, which also included France rejoining the NATO Military Command Structure, while maintaining an independent nuclear deterrent.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1997, wider forums for regional cooperation between NATO and its neighbors were set up, like the Partnership for Peace, the Mediterranean Dialogue initiative and the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council. In 1998, the NATO–Russia Permanent Joint Council was established. Between 1999 and 2017 NATO incorporated the following Central and Eastern European countries, including several former communist states: the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Albania, Croatia and Montenegro.\n\nThe Russian intervention in Crimea in 2014 lead to strong condemnation by NATO nations and the creation of a new \"spearhead\" force of 5,000 troops at bases in Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Romania, and Bulgaria. At the subsequent 2014 Wales summit, the leaders of NATO's member states formally committed for the first time spend the equivalent of at least 2% of their gross domestic products on defence by 2024, which had previously been only an informal guideline.\n\nNo military operations were conducted by NATO during the Cold War. Following the end of the Cold War, the first operations, \"Anchor Guard\" in 1990 and \"Ace Guard\" in 1991, were prompted by the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. Airborne early warning aircraft were sent to provide coverage of southeastern Turkey, and later a quick-reaction force was deployed to the area.\n\nThe Bosnian War began in 1992, as a result of the breakup of Yugoslavia. The deteriorating situation led to United Nations Security Council Resolution 816 on 9 October 1992, ordering a no-fly zone over central Bosnia and Herzegovina, which NATO began enforcing on 12 April 1993 with Operation \"Deny Flight\". From June 1993 until October 1996, Operation \"Sharp Guard\" added maritime enforcement of the arms embargo and economic sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. On 28 February 1994, NATO took its first wartime action by shooting down four Bosnian Serb aircraft violating the no-fly zone.\n\nOn 10 and 11 April 1994, during the Bosnian War, the United Nations Protection Force called in air strikes to protect the Goražde safe area, resulting in the bombing of a Bosnian Serb military command outpost near Goražde by two US F-16 jets acting under NATO direction. This resulted in the taking of 150 U.N. personnel hostage on 14 April. On 16 April a British Sea Harrier was shot down over Goražde by Serb forces. A two-week NATO bombing campaign, Operation \"Deliberate Force\", began in August 1995 against the Army of the Republika Srpska, after the Srebrenica massacre.\n\nNATO air strikes that year helped bring the Yugoslav wars to an end, resulting in the Dayton Agreement in November 1995. As part of this agreement, NATO deployed a UN-mandated peacekeeping force, under Operation \"Joint Endeavor\", named IFOR. Almost 60,000 NATO troops were joined by forces from non-NATO nations in this peacekeeping mission. This transitioned into the smaller SFOR, which started with 32,000 troops initially and ran from December 1996 until December 2004, when operations were then passed onto European Union Force Althea. Following the lead of its member nations, NATO began to award a service medal, the NATO Medal, for these operations.\n\nIn an effort to stop Slobodan Milošević's Serbian-led crackdown on KLA separatists and Albanian civilians in Kosovo, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 1199 on 23 September 1998 to demand a ceasefire. Negotiations under US Special Envoy Richard Holbrooke broke down on 23 March 1999, and he handed the matter to NATO, which started a 78-day bombing campaign on 24 March 1999. Operation \"Allied Force\" targeted the military capabilities of what was then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. During the crisis, NATO also deployed one of its international reaction forces, the ACE Mobile Force (Land), to Albania as the Albania Force (AFOR), to deliver humanitarian aid to refugees from Kosovo.\n\nThough the campaign was criticized for high civilian casualties, including bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade, Milošević finally accepted the terms of an international peace plan on 3 June 1999, ending the Kosovo War. On 11 June, Milošević further accepted UN resolution 1244, under the mandate of which NATO then helped establish the KFOR peacekeeping force. Nearly one million refugees had fled Kosovo, and part of KFOR's mandate was to protect the humanitarian missions, in addition to deterring violence. In August–September 2001, the alliance also mounted Operation \"Essential Harvest\", a mission disarming ethnic Albanian militias in the Republic of Macedonia. , 4,882 KFOR soldiers, representing 31 countries, continue to operate in the area.\n\nThe US, the UK, and most other NATO countries opposed efforts to require the UN Security Council to approve NATO military strikes, such as the action against Serbia in 1999, while France and some others claimed that the alliance needed UN approval. The US/UK side claimed that this would undermine the authority of the alliance, and they noted that Russia and China would have exercised their Security Council vetoes to block the strike on Yugoslavia, and could do the same in future conflicts where NATO intervention was required, thus nullifying the entire potency and purpose of the organization. Recognizing the post-Cold War military environment, NATO adopted the Alliance Strategic Concept during its Washington summit in April 1999 that emphasized conflict prevention and crisis management.\n\nThe September 11 attacks in the United States caused NATO to invoke Article 5 of the NATO Charter for the first time in the organization's history. The Article says that an attack on any member shall be considered to be an attack on all. The invocation was confirmed on 4 October 2001 when NATO determined that the attacks were indeed eligible under the terms of the North Atlantic Treaty. The eight official actions taken by NATO in response to the attacks included Operation \"Eagle Assist\" and Operation \"Active Endeavour\", a naval operation in the Mediterranean Sea which is designed to prevent the movement of terrorists or weapons of mass destruction, as well as enhancing the security of shipping in general which began on 4 October 2001.\n\nThe alliance showed unity: On 16 April 2003, NATO agreed to take command of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), which includes troops from 42 countries. The decision came at the request of Germany and the Netherlands, the two nations leading ISAF at the time of the agreement, and all nineteen NATO ambassadors approved it unanimously. The handover of control to NATO took place on 11 August, and marked the first time in NATO's history that it took charge of a mission outside the north Atlantic area.\n\nISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul and surrounding areas from the Taliban, al Qaeda and factional warlords, so as to allow for the establishment of the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai. In October 2003, the UN Security Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF mission throughout Afghanistan, and ISAF subsequently expanded the mission in four main stages over the whole of the country.\n\nOn 31 July 2006, the ISAF additionally took over military operations in the south of Afghanistan from a US-led anti-terrorism coalition. Due to the intensity of the fighting in the south, in 2011 France allowed a squadron of Mirage 2000 fighter/attack aircraft to be moved into the area, to Kandahar, in order to reinforce the alliance's efforts. During its 2012 Chicago Summit, NATO endorsed a plan to end the Afghanistan war and to remove the NATO-led ISAF Forces by the end of December 2014. ISAF was disestablished in December 2014 and replaced by the follow-on training Resolute Support Mission\n\nIn August 2004, during the Iraq War, NATO formed the NATO Training Mission – Iraq, a training mission to assist the Iraqi security forces in conjunction with the US led MNF-I. The NATO Training Mission-Iraq (NTM-I) was established at the request of the Iraqi Interim Government under the provisions of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1546. The aim of NTM-I was to assist in the development of Iraqi security forces training structures and institutions so that Iraq can build an effective and sustainable capability that addresses the needs of the nation. NTM-I was not a combat mission but is a distinct mission, under the political control of NATO's North Atlantic Council. Its operational emphasis was on training and mentoring. The activities of the mission were coordinated with Iraqi authorities and the US-led Deputy Commanding General Advising and Training, who was also dual-hatted as the Commander of NTM-I. The mission officially concluded on 17 December 2011.\n\nTurkey invoked the first Article 4 meetings in 2003 at the start of the Iraq War. Turkey also invoked this article twice in 2012 during the Syrian Civil War, after the downing of an unarmed Turkish F-4 reconnaissance jet, and after a mortar was fired at Turkey from Syria, and again in 2015 after threats by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant to its territorial integrity.\n\nBeginning on 17 August 2009, NATO deployed warships in an operation to protect maritime traffic in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean from Somali pirates, and help strengthen the navies and coast guards of regional states. The operation was approved by the North Atlantic Council and involves warships primarily from the United States though vessels from many other nations are also included. Operation \"Ocean Shield\" focuses on protecting the ships of Operation \"Allied Provider\" which are distributing aid as part of the World Food Programme mission in Somalia. Russia, China and South Korea have sent warships to participate in the activities as well. The operation seeks to dissuade and interrupt pirate attacks, protect vessels, and abetting to increase the general level of security in the region.\n\nDuring the Libyan Civil War, violence between protestors and the Libyan government under Colonel Muammar Gaddafi escalated, and on 17 March 2011 led to the passage of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973, which called for a ceasefire, and authorized military action to protect civilians. A coalition that included several NATO members began enforcing a no-fly zone over Libya shortly afterwards, beginning with Opération Harmattan by the French Air Force on March 19.\n\nOn 20 March 2011, NATO states agreed on enforcing an arms embargo against Libya with Operation \"Unified Protector\" using ships from NATO Standing Maritime Group 1 and Standing Mine Countermeasures Group 1, and additional ships and submarines from NATO members. They would \"monitor, report and, if needed, interdict vessels suspected of carrying illegal arms or mercenaries\".\n\nOn 24 March, NATO agreed to take control of the no-fly zone from the initial coalition, while command of targeting ground units remained with the coalition's forces. NATO began officially enforcing the UN resolution on 27 March 2011 with assistance from Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. By June, reports of divisions within the alliance surfaced as only eight of the 28 member nations were participating in combat operations, resulting in a confrontation between US Defense Secretary Robert Gates and countries such as Poland, Spain, the Netherlands, Turkey, and Germany to contribute more, the latter believing the organization has overstepped its mandate in the conflict. In his final policy speech in Brussels on 10 June, Gates further criticized allied countries in suggesting their actions could cause the demise of NATO. The German foreign ministry pointed to \"a considerable [German] contribution to NATO and NATO-led operations\" and to the fact that this engagement was highly valued by President Obama.\n\nWhile the mission was extended into September, Norway that day announced it would begin scaling down contributions and complete withdrawal by 1 August. Earlier that week it was reported Danish air fighters were running out of bombs. The following week, the head of the Royal Navy said the country's operations in the conflict were not sustainable. By the end of the mission in October 2011, after the death of Colonel Gaddafi, NATO planes had flown about 9,500 strike sorties against pro-Gaddafi targets. A report from the organization Human Rights Watch in May 2012 identified at least 72 civilians killed in the campaign.\nFollowing a coup d'état attempt in October 2013, Libyan Prime Minister Ali Zeidan requested technical advice and trainers from NATO to assist with ongoing security issues.\n\nNATO has twenty-nine members, mainly in Europe and North America. Some of these countries also have territory on multiple continents, which can be covered only as far south as the Tropic of Cancer in the Atlantic Ocean, which defines NATO's \"area of responsibility\" under Article 6 of the North Atlantic Treaty. During the original treaty negotiations, the United States insisted that colonies such as the Belgian Congo be excluded from the treaty. French Algeria was however covered until their independence on 3 July 1962. Twelve of these twenty-nine are original members who joined in 1949, while the other seventeen joined in one of seven enlargement rounds.\n\nFrom the mid-1960s to the mid-1990s, France pursued a military strategy of independence from NATO under a policy dubbed \"Gaullo-Mitterrandism\". Nicolas Sarkozy negotiated the return of France to the integrated military command and the Defence Planning Committee in 2009, the latter being disbanded the following year. France remains the only NATO member outside the Nuclear Planning Group and unlike the United States and the United Kingdom, will not commit its nuclear-armed submarines to the alliance. Few members spend more than two percent of their gross domestic product on defence, with the United States accounting for three quarters of NATO defense spending.\n\nNew membership in the alliance has been largely from Central and Eastern Europe, including former members of the Warsaw Pact. Accession to the alliance is governed with individual Membership Action Plans, and requires approval by each current member. NATO currently has two candidate countries that are in the process of joining the alliance: Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia.\nIn NATO official statements, the Republic of Macedonia is always referred to as the \"former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia\", with a footnote stating that \"Turkey recognizes the Republic of Macedonia under its constitutional name\". Though Macedonia completed its requirements for membership at the same time as Croatia and Albania, who joined NATO in 2009, its accession was blocked by Greece pending a resolution of the Macedonia naming dispute. In order to support each other in the process, new and potential members in the region formed the Adriatic Charter in 2003. Georgia was also named as an aspiring member, and was promised \"future membership\" during the 2008 summit in Bucharest, though in 2014, US President Barack Obama said the country was not \"currently on a path\" to membership.\n\nRussia continues to oppose further expansion, seeing it as inconsistent with informal understandings between Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and European and American negotiators that allowed for a peaceful German reunification. NATO's expansion efforts are often seen by Moscow leaders as a continuation of a Cold War attempt to surround and isolate Russia, though they have also been criticised in the West. A June 2016 Levada poll found that 68% of Russians think that deploying NATO troops in the Baltic states and Poland – former Eastern bloc countries bordering Russia – is a threat to Russia. In contrast 65% of Poles surveyed in 2017 Pew Research Center report identified Russia as a \"major threat\", with an average of 31% saying so across all NATO countries, and 67% of Poles surveyed in 2018 favour US forces being based in Poland. Of non-CIS Eastern European countries surveyed by Gallup in 2016, all but Serbia and Montenegro were more likely than not to view NATO as a protective alliance rather than a threat. \n\nUkraine's relationship with NATO and Europe has been politically controversial, and improvement of these relations was one of the goals of the \"Euromaidan\" protests that saw the ousting of pro-Russian President Viktor Yanukovych in 2014. In March 2014, Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk reiterated the government's stance that Ukraine is not seeking NATO membership. Ukraine's president subsequently signed a bill dropping his nation's nonaligned status in order to pursue NATO membership, but signaled that it would hold a referendum before seeking to join. Ukraine is one of eight countries in Eastern Europe with an Individual Partnership Action Plan. IPAPs began in 2002, and are open to countries that have the political will and ability to deepen their relationship with NATO.\n\nA 2006 study in the journal \"Security Studies\" argued that NATO enlargement contributed to democratic consolidation in Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nThe Partnership for Peace (PfP) programme was established in 1994 and is based on individual bilateral relations between each partner country and NATO: each country may choose the extent of its participation. Members include all current and former members of the Commonwealth of Independent States. The Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council (EAPC) was first established on 29 May 1997, and is a forum for regular coordination, consultation and dialogue between all fifty participants. The PfP programme is considered the operational wing of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership. Other third countries also have been contacted for participation in some activities of the PfP framework such as Afghanistan.\n\nThe European Union (EU) signed a comprehensive package of arrangements with NATO under the Berlin Plus agreement on 16 December 2002. With this agreement, the EU was given the possibility to use NATO assets in case it wanted to act independently in an international crisis, on the condition that NATO itself did not want to act – the so-called \"right of first refusal\". For example, Article 42(7) of the 1982 Treaty of Lisbon specifies that \"If a Member State is the victim of armed aggression on its territory, the other Member States shall have towards it an obligation of aid and assistance by all the means in their power\". The treaty applies globally to specified territories whereas NATO is restricted under its Article 6 to operations north of the Tropic of Cancer. It provides a \"double framework\" for the EU countries that are also linked with the PfP programme.\n\nAdditionally, NATO cooperates and discusses its activities with numerous other non-NATO members. The Mediterranean Dialogue was established in 1994 to coordinate in a similar way with Israel and countries in North Africa. The Istanbul Cooperation Initiative was announced in 2004 as a dialog forum for the Middle East along the same lines as the Mediterranean Dialogue. The four participants are also linked through the Gulf Cooperation Council.\n\nPolitical dialogue with Japan began in 1990, and since then, the Alliance has gradually increased its contact with countries that do not form part of any of these cooperation initiatives. In 1998, NATO established a set of general guidelines that do not allow for a formal institutionalisation of relations, but reflect the Allies' desire to increase cooperation. Following extensive debate, the term \"Contact Countries\" was agreed by the Allies in 2000. By 2012, the Alliance had broadened this group, which meets to discuss issues such as counter-piracy and technology exchange, under the names \"partners across the globe\" or \"global partners\". Australia and New Zealand, both contact countries, are also members of the AUSCANNZUKUS strategic alliance, and similar regional or bilateral agreements between contact countries and NATO members also aid cooperation. Colombia is the NATO’s latest partner and Colombia has access to the full range of cooperative activities NATO offers to partners; Colombia became the first and only Latin American country to cooperate with NATO.\n\nAll agencies and organizations of NATO integrated into either the civilian administrative or military executive roles. For the most part they perform roles and functions that directly or indirectly support the security role of the alliance as a whole.\n\nThe civilian structure includes:\n\nThe military structure includes:\n\nThe organizations and agencies of NATO include:\n\nThe NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA) is a body that sets broad strategic goals for NATO, which meets at two session per year. NATO PA interacts directly with the parliamentary structures of the national governments of the member states which appoint Permanent Members, or ambassadors to NATO. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly is made up of legislators from the member countries of the North Atlantic Alliance as well as thirteen associate members. It is however officially a different structure from NATO, and has as aim to join together deputies of NATO countries in order to discuss security policies on the NATO Council.\n\n\nSimilar organizations:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53311894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53311894", "title": "National Marijuana Initiative", "text": "National Marijuana Initiative\n\nThe National Marijuana Initiative is an American organization founded in 2001. It is one of three initiatives under the federal High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program.\n\nIn 2015, House Bill 3 and Senate Bill 40 both proposed establishing a medical cannabis framework in Kentucky, both failed to pass out of committee. NMI and the Kentucky Baptist Convention took credit for the defeat of the bills, and vowed to oppose medical cannabis bills in 2016. NMI coordinator Ed Shemelya stated: \"The ultimate end game for proponents of – and I don't even like to call it medical marijuana – the proponents of marijuana as medicine is not to sanction marijuana as medicine but the outright legalization of recreational use of marijuana.\"\n"}
{"id": "18776312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18776312", "title": "National Risk Register", "text": "National Risk Register\n\nThe National Risk Register is a report first released by the Cabinet Office in August 2008 as part of the British government's National Security Strategy. It provides an official government assessment of significant potential risks to the United Kingdom. The National Risk Register has since been re-issued in 2010, 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2017.\n\nThe National Risk Register divides risks into four main categories: natural hazards, major accidents, societal risks, and malicious attacks. It evaluates a number of risks under each of these headings, rated by relative impact and likelihood, and discusses the measures currently in place to deal with each of these. \n\nIt also discusses measures that can be put in place by both individuals and organizations to mitigate the effects of civil disruption.\n\n"}
{"id": "21539714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21539714", "title": "Northern Ireland Youth Forum", "text": "Northern Ireland Youth Forum\n\nThe Northern Ireland Youth Forum (NIYF) is a youth organisation in the United Kingdom, consisting of volunteer members aged between 11 and 25. Winners of the very first MTV voices award in 2011.\n\nThe NIYF is a youth led organisation that lobbies, advocates, promotes and fights for the rights of young people in Northern Ireland. The primary aim is to build the confidence and awareness of all young people so that they can assert their rights as listed by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nThe Northern Ireland Youth Forum was created by the Department of Education in 1979 to ensure that young people’s opinions were heard and valued by government. As part of the Youth Sector, the Youth Forum was asked to help young people engage in decision-making about the delivery of services such as youth clubs, local youth councils, as well as in wider society.\n\nToday the Youth Forum’s mantra is \"‘promoting the voice of young people’\", and it works with young people across Northern Ireland to ensure they are able to fully participate in making decisions within their community.\n\nThe Youth Forum is a member-based organisation, which means that it gets its direction and focus from the young people it is created to work for. Membership is open to all young people living in Northern Ireland aged between 11 and 25 who support the core values and aims of the Youth Forum.\n\nMembers are encouraged to take an active role in the life of the organisation, including standing for election to the Executive Committee. Members also receive our monthly email newsletter ‘eBumpfh’ that contains information about current work, training opportunities, and exciting events.\n\nMembers are encouraged to keep in touch with the Membership Development Worker to inform them of the work that they are doing in their local area or youth club. Through the online discussion forum Members can talk about issues that they care about, feed into ongoing consultations that are managed by the Youth Forum, and make friends with other Members.\n\nThe forum lists five main focal points of its work, detailed below.\n\n\nThe Executive Committee set the strategic direction of the organisation, and are elected every two years from within the membership. It is composed of 15 prominent members of the organisation. They work with staff at an annual strategic planning residential to create the work plan for the following year. The Executive then meet with members twice each year to inform them of the key work of the organisation, including at the Annual General Meeting.\n\nThe Annual General Meeting is the organisation's largest regular conference, which all members are invited to attend. It gives the membership a chance to consult with the executive committee on the direction which the forum will be taking in the year ahead.\n\nIn order to facilitate the work done by the forum, subgroups are created thus giving a greater sense of focus to members. Each subgroup contains one or more members of the executive committee who feed back information at executive meetings to strengthen internal communications. Current subgroups include:\nThe NIYF also fills the position of a regional body of the UK Youth Parliament; as such it remains involved in national and local campaigns. Currently the forum holds positions on the Procedures group and Board of Trustees of the UKYP.\n"}
{"id": "6711594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6711594", "title": "Norwegian language conflict", "text": "Norwegian language conflict\n\nThe Norwegian language conflict (', ' or \"\") is an ongoing controversy within Norwegian culture and politics related to the written versions of the Norwegian language. From the 16th to the 19th centuries, Danish was the standard written language of Norway due to Danish rule. As a result, the development of modern written Norwegian has been subject to controversy related to nationalism, rural versus urban, Norway's literary history, dialect versus standard language, spelling reform, and orthography.\n\nIn the United Kingdoms of Denmark and Norway (1536–1814), the official language was Danish. The urban Norwegian upper class spoke \"dansk-norsk\", Dano-Norwegian, a form of Danish with Norwegian pronunciation and other minor local differences while the majority of the population spoke their local and regional dialects. After the two countries separated in 1814, Dano-Norwegian remained the sole official language until 1885. \n\nIn the early 1840s, the young linguist Ivar Aasen traveled rural areas collecting examples of the words and grammar used there. He assembled a Norwegian language based on dialects little affected by Danish and published his first grammar and dictionary of the Norwegian people's language (\"Folkespråk\"), in 1848 and 1850 respectively. Both he and other authors wrote texts in their own dialects from around this time and in the decades following.\n\nThe Norwegian language is a North Germanic language. Dano-Norwegian evolved gradually to incorporate Norwegian forms. Aasen's people's language became established. Parliament decided in 1885 that the two forms of written Norwegian were to be equally official. Both went through some name-changes until 1929 when parliament decided that the one originally based on Danish should be called (literally \"book language\") and the one based on Norwegian dialects should be called (\"new Norwegian\"). \n\nIn the early 20th century, a more activist approach to written Norwegian was adopted in public policy. Government attempts through several decades to bring the two language forms closer to each other with the goal of merging the two failed due to widespread resistance from both sides. The now-abandoned official policy to merge Bokmål and Nynorsk into one common language called ' through a series of reforms has created a wide spectrum of varieties of both and . The unofficial form known as ' is considered more conservative than . Similarly, the unofficial ' is much closer to Ivar Aasen's mid-1800s language than to today's Nynorsk. Norwegians are educated in both their own language form (' / ', \"main language\") and their secondary language form (', \"side language\"); with the primary focus being on their own language form. \n\nThere is no officially sanctioned spoken standard of Norwegian, but according to some, there is a de facto spoken standard of called Standard (\"East Norwegian\"). \n\n\n\nThe earliest examples of non-Danish, Norwegian writing are from the 12th century, with \"Konungs skuggsjá\" being the prime example. The language in use at this time is known as Old Norse, and was widely used in writing in Norway and Iceland. The languages of Sweden and Denmark at this time were not very different from that of Norway, and are often also called Old Norse. Although some regional variations are apparent in written documents from this time, it is hard to know precisely the divisions between spoken dialects. This interim Norwegian is known as middle Norwegian (\"mellomnorsk\").\n\nWith the Black Death in 1349, Norway's economy and political independence collapsed, and the country came under Danish rule. The Norwegian language also underwent rather significant changes, shedding complex grammatical forms and adopting a new vocabulary.\n\nThe Norwegian written language at this time gradually fell into disuse and was eventually abandoned altogether in favor of written Danish, the culminating event being the translation in 1604 of Magnus the Lawmender's code into Danish. The last example found of an original Middle Norwegian document is from 1583.\n\nNorwegian dialects, however, lived on and evolved within the general population as vernacular speech, even as the educated classes gradually adopted a Dano-Norwegian \"koiné\" in speech. Paradoxically, the Norwegian-born writer Ludvig Holberg became one of the leading exponents of standard written Danish, even as he retained a few distinctly Norwegian forms in his own writing.\n\nIn fact, Norwegian writers—even those who were purists of the Danish language—never fully relinquished their native vocabulary and usage in their writing. Examples include Petter Dass, Johan Nordahl Brun, Jens Zetlitz, and Christian Braunmann Tullin. Although Danish was the official language of the realm, Norwegian writers experienced a disparity between the languages they spoke and wrote.\n\nIn 1814, Norway separated from Denmark as the Kingdom of Norway and adopted its own constitution. It was forced into a new, but weaker, union with Sweden, and the situation evolved into what follows:\n\n\nThe dissolution of Denmark–Norway occurred in the era of the emerging European nation states. In accordance with the principles of romantic nationalism, legitimacy was given to the young and still-forming nation of Norway by way of its history and culture, including the Norwegian language. Norwegian writers gradually adopted distinctly Norwegian vocabulary in their work. Henrik Wergeland may have been the first to do so; but it was the collected folk tales by Jørgen Moe and Peter Christen Asbjørnsen that created a distinct Norwegian written style. This created some opposition from the conservatives, most notably from the poet Johan Sebastian Welhaven. The influential playwright Henrik Ibsen was inspired by the nationalistic movement, but in his later writings he wrote mostly in standard Danish, probably out of concern for his Danish audience.\n\nBy 1866, Danish clergyman Andreas Listov (1817–1889) found it necessary to publish a book of about 3,000 terms that needed translation from Norwegian to Danish. Though most of these terms were probably taken straight from Aasmund Olavsson Vinje’s travel accounts, the publication reflected a widespread recognition that much written Norwegian no longer was pure Danish.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, two Norwegian linguistic pioneers had started the work that would influence the linguistic situation to this day. Ivar Aasen, autodidact, polyglot, and the founder of modern Norwegian linguistics, studied first the dialects of Sunnmøre, his home district, and then the structure of Norwegian dialects in general. He was one of the first to describe the evolution from Old Norse to Modern Norwegian. From this he moved to advocate and design a distinctly Norwegian written language he termed \"Landsmål\", \"language of the country\". His work was based on two important principles, in morphology he chose forms which he regarded as common denominators from which contemporary varieties could be inferred, in lexicography he applied puristic principles and excluded words of Danish or Middle Low German descent when at least some dialects had preserved synonyms inherited from Old Norse. In 1885, Landsmål was adopted as an official written language alongside the Norwegian version of Danish.\n\nKnud Knudsen, a teacher, worked instead to adapt the orthography more closely to the spoken Dano-Norwegian \"koiné\" known as \"cultivated daily speech\" (\"dannet dagligtale\"). He argued that the cultivated daily speech was the best basis for a distinct Norwegian written language, because the educated classes did not belong to any specific region, they were numerous, and possessed cultural influence. Knudsen was also influenced by and a proponent of the common Dano-Norwegian movement for phonemic orthography. The written form of Norwegian based on his work eventually became known as \"Riksmål\", a term introduced by the author Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson in 1899. The prefix \"riks\" is used in words denoting \"belonging to a (or the) country\"; Riksmål means \"state language\".\n\nAs a result of Knudsen's work, the Parliament of Norway passed the first orthographical reforms in 1862, most of which also had its proponents in Denmark. Though modest in comparison to subsequent reforms, it nevertheless marked a legislative step toward a distinct written standard for Norway. Silent \"e\"'s were eliminated from written Norwegian (\"faa\" rather than \"faae\"), double vowels were no longer used to denote long vowels, \"k\" replaced the use of \"c\", \"q\", and \"ch\" in most words, and \"ph\" was eliminated in favor of \"f\".\n\nSuch orthographic reforms continued in subsequent years, but in 1892 the Norwegian department of education approved the first set of optional forms in the publication of Nordahl Rolfsen's \"Reader for the Primary School\" (\"Læsebog for Folkeskolen\"). Also, in 1892, national legislation gave each local school board the right to decide whether to teach its children Riksmål or Landsmål.\n\nIn 1907, linguistic reforms were extended to include not just orthography but also grammar. The characteristic Norwegian \"hard\" consonants (p, t, k) replaced Danish \"soft\" consonants (b, d, g) in writing; consonants were doubled to denote short vowels; words that in Norwegian were monosyllabic were spelled that way; and conjugations related to neutrum were adapted to common Norwegian usage in cultivated daily speech.\n\nIn 1913 Olaf Bull's crime novel \"Mit navn er Knoph\" (\"My name is Knoph\") became the first piece of Norwegian literature to be translated from Riksmål into Danish for Danish readers, thereby underlining the fact that Riksmål was by now a separate language.\n\nIn 1906, prominent writers of landsmål formed an association to promote their version of written Norwegian, calling themselves Noregs Mållag; a year later, the corresponding organization to promote riksmål was founded, naming itself Riksmålsforbundet. The formation of these organizations coincided with the rule that all incoming university students - those who passed \"examen artium\" - had to demonstrate mastery of both for admission to university programs. They had to write a second additional essay in the Norwegian language that was not their primary language.\n\nIn 1911, the writer Gabriel Scott's comedic play \"Tower of Babel\" had its premiere in Oslo. It is about a small town in eastern Norway that is overtaken by proponents of landsmål who take to executing all those who resist their language. The play culminates in the landsmål proponents killing each other over what to call their country: Noregr, Thule, Ultima, Ny-Norig, or Nyrig. The last line is spoken by a country peasant who, seeing the carnage, says: \"Good thing I didn't take part in this!\"\n\nThere was at least one brawl in the audience during the play's run, and the stage was set for a linguistic schism that would characterize Norwegian politics to this day.\n\nTo confuse matters further, Eivind Berggrav, Halvdan Koht, and Didrik Arup Seip formed a third organization called Østlandsk reisning that sought to increase the representation, as it were, of Eastern Norwegian dialects in landsmål, since they felt Aasen's language as overly influenced by the dialects of Western Norway.\n\nIn 1917, the Norwegian parliament passed the first major standard for both Norwegian languages. The standard for riksmål was for the most part a continuation of the 1907 reforms and added some optional forms that were closer to Norwegian dialects, but those for landsmål sought to reduce forms that were considered idiosyncratic for Western Norway.\n\nAs it turned out, the reforms within riksmål themselves caused controversy - between those who held that the written language should closely approximate the formal language of the educated elite on the one hand, and those who held that it should reflect the quotidian language of commoners on the other. A distinction was made between \"conservative\" and \"radical\" riksmål. This added a further political dimension to the debate that opened for a possible convergence between more liberal forms of landsmål and radical forms of riksmål. This was to form the basis for the notion of \"samnorsk\", a synthesis – yet to be realized – of the two main streams of written Norwegian.\n\nBy 1921, school districts had made their choice in the growing controversy: 2,000 taught landsmål as the primary written language; 2,550 the radical form of riksmål, and 1,450 conservative riksmål. In 1920, national authorities decided that the issue of language should be put to voters in local referendums, which brought the dispute to a local level where it was no less contentious. In Eidsvoll, for example, a local banker (Gudbrand Bræk, the father of Ola Skjåk Bræk) was threatened with being run out of town over his support for samnorsk.\n\nAlready in the late 19th century, place-names in Norway started changing, ideally to reflect what they were called by their residents. In 1917, 188 municipalities were renamed; all counties were given new names in 1918; and several of the largest cities were renamed in the 1920s; notably Kristiania became \"Oslo\", Fredrikshald became \"Halden\", for example. Some of these changes were less popular. For example, some residents of Sandviken were none too pleased about the \"radical\" change to \"Sandvika\", nor were many in nearby Fornebo willing to accept \"Fornebu\". The greatest controversy erupted over the city of Trondheim, which had until then been known as \"Trondhjem\", but in the Viking era had been called \"Nidaros\". After the authorities had decided – without consulting the population – that the city should be renamed \"Nidaros\", a compromise was eventually reached, with \"Trondheim\".\n\nIn 1911, the Kristiansund school board circulated among its teachers a document that required that their \"oral\" instruction had to be in the same language as the district's written language, in this case riksmål. A teacher, Knut Grimstad, refused to accept this on the grounds that neither the school district nor the Norwegian national authorities had the right to impose a version of a spoken language as instruction. He found support in the 1878 resolution that required that all students – \"as much as possible\" – should receive instruction in a language close to their native tongue. This was subsequently clarified to mean that they were supposed to be taught in \"the Norwegian language\", a phrase also open to interpretation.\n\nGrimstad was forced to apologize for the form of his protest, but the issue nevertheless came up in parliament in 1912. This became one of the first political challenges for the new Konow cabinet, falling under the auspices of Edvard Appoloniussen Liljedahl, the minister of churches and education. Liljedahl was a respected and dyed-in-the-wool member of the landsmål camp, having actually addressed the parliament in his native dialect from Sogn. For his rebuke of Grimstad's position, he was vilified by his own. Trying to find a compromise, his department confirmed the principle of teaching in the \"local common spoken language\" while also requires that they be \"taught in the language decided for their written work\". This now attracted the ire of the riksmål camp.\n\nParliament and the department hoped that this clarification would put the issue to rest; but in 1923, the school board in Bergen decided that the spoken language in all its schools would be riksmål. Olav Andreas Eftestøl (1863-1930), the school director for this region – there were seven such appointees for the entire country of Norway – took this decision to the department in 1924, and another parliamentary debate ensued. Eftestøl's view was endorsed, and this put an end to the discussion about spoken language in schools; although it took longer before native speakers of Sami and Kven got the same rights; and the issue has re-emerged recently with respect to immigrant children's native language.\n\nThe ascent of the Norwegian Labour Party turned out to be decisive in passing the 1917 reforms, and one Labour politician – the illustrious Halvdan Koht – was in the early 1920s asked to develop the party's political platform for the Norwegian language.\n\nKoht was for some years both the chairman of \"Noregs mållag\" and \"Østlandsk reisning\" and immersed on the issue of language. He published his findings in 1921, and framed them in a decidedly political context.\n\nHis view, which was to gain currency among his fellow Labourites, was that the urban working class and rural farming class had a convergence of interests in language, giving rise to the emergent \"people's language\" (\"folkemålet\"). He wrote that \"The struggle for the people's language is the cultural side of the labor movement.\" This notion of convergence led the Labour Party to embrace the ideal of a synthesis of the two main languages into one language, built on the spoken forms of the \"common person\", or \"samnorsk.\"\n\nHaving already changed the names of the languages: riksmål became bokmål and landsmål nynorsk by parliamentary resolution of 1929, the Labour party made Koht their thought leaders and spokesperson on these issues, formalizing his views into their platform.\n\nThe 1938 reforms, proposed under the first durable Labour cabinet of Johan Nygaardsvold, represented a radical departure from previous reforms.\n\n\nThe reforms clearly aspired to bring the two languages closer together and predictably angered advocates in each camp. In particular, the proponents of \"riksmål\" felt the reforms were a frontal assault on their written language and sensibilities, since many elements of their previous norm – \"dannet dagligtale\" – were deprecated. But also purists in the \"landsmål\" camp were unhappy, feeling that the reforms gutted their language.\n\nThe occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany from 1940 to 1945 took the language issue off the national political scene. The Quisling government rescinded the 1938 reforms and made some changes of its own, but as with virtually everything Quisling did, this was rendered null and void by the post-war Norwegian government.\n\nAs it turned out, the war set the nynorsk movement back substantially. The momentum gained by the Labour party's activism for nynorsk was lost during the war, and Noreg mållag's entire archive was lost in 1944. An opinion poll in 1946 showed that 79% of all Norwegians favored the formation of \"samnorsk\", setting further back the cause of the purists who favored the traditional landsmål forms.\n\nOn the other side of the issue, the poet Arnulf Øverland galvanized Riksmålsforbundet in opposition not to nynorsk, which he respected, but against the radical bokmål recommended by the 1938 reforms. Their efforts were particularly noted in Oslo, where the school board had decided to make radical forms of bokmål the norm in 1939 (\"Oslo-vedtaket\"). In 1951, concerned parents primarily from the affluent western neighborhoods of Oslo organized the \"parents' campaign against samnorsk\" (\"foreldreaksjonen mot samnorsk\"), which in 1953 included \"correcting\" textbooks.\n\nIn 1952, Øverland and Riksmålsforbundet published the so-called \"blue list\" that recommended more conservative orthography and forms than most of the 1938 reforms. This book established for the first time a real alternative standard in riksmål to legislated bokmål. It set the standard for two of the capital's main daily newspapers, Aftenposten and Morgenbladet. It also contributed to the reversal of the \"Oslo decision\" in 1954.\n\nIn 1951, the Norwegian parliament established by law Norsk språknemnd, which later was renamed Norsk språkråd (Norwegian Language Council). Riksmålsforeningen disagreed with the premises of the council's mandate, namely that Norwegian was to be built on the basis of the \"people's language\". The council was convened with 30 representatives, 15 from each of the main languages. However, most of them supported samnorsk.\n\nIn 1952, a minor reform passed with little fanfare and controversy: in \"spoken\" official Norwegian, numbers over 20 were to be articulated with the tens first, e.g., \"twenty-one\" as is the Swedish and English practice rather than \"one-and-twenty\", the previous practice also found in Danish and German.\n\nArnulf Øverland, who had so successfully energized the riksmål movement after the war, did not see nynorsk as the nemesis of his cause. Rather, he appealed to the nynorsk movement to join forces against the common enemy he found in \"samnorsk\". By several accounts, however, much of the activism within the riksmål camp was directed against all \"radical\" tendencies, including nynorsk.\n\nThe use of bokmål and nynorsk in the government-controlled Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation (NRK) came under a particular scrutiny. As a government agency (and monopoly) that has traditionally been strongly associated with the Nynorsk-supporting Norwegian Labour Party, NRK was required to include both languages in its broadcasts. According to their own measurements, well over 80% was in bokmål and less than 20% nynorsk. Still, the riksmål advocates were outraged, since they noted that some of the most popular programs (such as the 7 pm news) were broadcast in nynorsk, and the bokmål was too radical in following the 1938 norms.\n\nThis came to a head in the case of Sigurd Smebye, a meteorologist who insisted on using highly conservative riksmål terms in reporting the weather. This ended up on the parliamentary floor, where the minister had to assure the public that anyone was entitled to use his/her own dialect on the air. However, Smebye was effectively disallowed from performing on television and ended up suing and prevailing over NRK in a supreme court case.\n\nAt the same time, one of the announcers for children's radio shows complained that her texts had been corrected from riksmål to 1938-bokmål, e.g., from \"Dukken lå i sengen sin på gulvet\" to \"Dokka lå i senga si på golvet\". With the 1959 reforms, the issue seems to have been resolved – everyone in NRK could use their own natural spoken language.\n\nAs its first major work, the language council published in 1959 new standards for textbooks. The purpose of a unified standard was to avoid multiple versions of standard books to accommodate \"moderate\", \"radical\", and \"conservative\" versions of the languages. The standard was by its nature a continuation of the convergence movement toward the ever-elusive goal of \"samnorsk\". Double consonants to denote short vowels are put in common use; the silent \"h\" is eliminated in a number of words; more \"radical\" forms in bokmål are made primary; while nynorsk actually offers more choices.\n\nHowever, it appeared that the 1959 attempt was the last gasp of the samnorsk movement. After this, the Norwegian Labour Party decided to depoliticize language issues by commissioning expert panels on linguistic issues.\n\nIn January 1964, a committee was convened by Helge Sivertsen, minister of education, with Professor Hans Vogt as its chair. It was variously known as the \"Vogt committee\" or \"language peace committee\" (\"språkfredskomitéen\"). Its purpose was to defuse the conflict about language in Norway and build an atmosphere of mutual respect.\n\nThe committee published its findings in 1966, pointing out that:\n\nThese findings were subject to hearings and discussions in coming years in a decidedly more deliberate form than before; and a significant outcome was the Norsk språknemnd became Norsk språkråd, responsible less for prescribing language than for cultivating it. Still, the Vogt committee promoted convergence as a virtue.\n\nThe Norwegian countercultural movement and the emergence of the New Left sought to disassociate itself from the conservative establishment in many ways, including language. At the universities, students were encouraged to \"speak their dialect, write nynorsk\", and radical forms of bokmål were adopted by urban left wing socialists.\n\nThe first debate about Norwegian EU membership leading to the 1972 referendum gave new meaning to rural culture and dialects. The nynorsk movement gained new momentum, putting rural districts and the dialects more in the center of Norwegian politics.\n\nIn 1973, Norsk språkråd instructed teachers to no longer correct students who used conservative riksmål in their writing, provided these forms were used consistently.\n\nThe 1973 recommendation by the council was formally approved by parliament in 1981 in what was known as the \"liberalization resolution\" (\"liberaliseringsvedtaket\"). With the exception of a few \"banner words\" (riksmål \"nu\" rather than bokmål \"nå\" (\"now\"), \"efter\" rather than \"etter\" (\"after\"), \"sne\" rather than \"snø\" (\"snow\"), and \"sprog\" rather than \"språk\" (\"language\"), traditional riksmål forms were fully accepted in contemporary bokmål, though all the radical forms were retained.\n\nOn 13 December 2002 the samnorsk ideal was finally officially abandoned when the Ministry of Culture and Church affairs sent out a press release to that effect. The primary motivation for this change in policy was the emerging consensus that government policy should not prohibit forms that are in active use and had a strong basis in the body of Norwegian literary work.\n\nThis was further formalized in the so-called \"2005-reforms\" that primarily affected orthography for bokmål. So-called \"secondary forms\" (sideformer) were abolished. These forms were variant spellings that would be tolerated by the general public, but disallowed among text book authors and public officials. The 2005 changes now made all allowable forms equal standing. These changes effectively recognize approximately full usage of riksmål forms.\n\nIn modern Norway, many of the largest urban centres' municipal governments have chosen to declare themselves neutral. However, it can be seen that several large centres have formally adopted the use of Bokmål, and very few larger urban centres use Nynorsk exclusively:\n\nThe Samnorsk issue turned out to be fateful for two generations of amateur and professional linguists in Norway and flared up into a divisive political issue from time to time. By letting Bokmål be Bokmål (or Riksmål) and Nynorsk Nynorsk, the Norwegian government allowed each – in principle – to develop on its own.\n\nAs Norwegian society has integrated more with the global economy and European cosmopolitanism, the effect on both written and spoken Norwegian is evident. There is a greater prevalence of English loan words in Norwegian, and some view this with great concern.\n\nIn 2004, the Norwegian Language Council issued Norwegian orthography for 25 originally English language words, suggesting that for example \"bacon\" be spelled \"beiken\". This was in keeping with previous practices that made \"stasjon\" the Norwegian writing for \"station\", etc., but the so-called \"\"beiken\" reforms\" fell on hard ground, and \"beiken\" was one of the spelling changes that was voted down.\n\nThere is also a trend, which has been ongoing since the dissolution of the Dano-Norwegian Union in 1814, to assimilate individual Swedish loan words into Norwegian. Although it lost momentum substantially after the dissolution of the union between Norway and Sweden in 1905 it has remained an ongoing phenomenon of Norwegian linguistics. Indeed, the prominent Norwegian linguist Finn-Erik Vinje characterizes this influx since the Second World War as a breaking wave.\n\nThere is further a concern in some quarters that poor grammar and usage is becoming more commonplace in the written press and broadcast media, and consequently among students and the general population. While the sociolinguistic view that language constantly evolves is duly noted among these critics, there is some call for more vigilance in written language. Broadcast programs such as Typisk Norsk and Språkteigen are intended to raise the general awareness of the Norwegian language; the \"language director\" Sylfest Lomheim is working to make language issues more visible.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "905254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=905254", "title": "Nunn–Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction", "text": "Nunn–Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction\n\nAs the fall of the Soviet Union appeared imminent, the United States and their allies began to worry about the concept that the nuclear weapons held in smaller countries by the Soviet Union could fall or would fall into enemy hands. The Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) Program was an initiative housed within the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). The CTR program is better known as the Nunn–Lugar Act based on the Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991 which was authored and cosponsored by Sens. Sam Nunn (D-GA) and Richard Lugar (R-IN). This Act was created in 1986 in a congressional meeting. According to the CTR website, \"the purpose of the CTR Program is to secure and dismantle weapons of mass destruction and their associated infrastructure in former Soviet Union states.\"Another explanation of purpose of the program is \"to secure and dismantle weapons of mass destruction in states of the former Soviet Union and beyond\".\n\nCTR provides funding and expertise for states in the former Soviet Union (including Russia, Ukraine, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstan) to decommission nuclear, biological, and chemical weapon stockpiles, as agreed by the Soviet Union under disarmament treaties such as SALT I. This funding totaled 400 million dollars a year for a total of four years. After nuclear warheads were removed by the FSU military from their delivery vehicles, Nunn-Lugar assistance provided equipment and supplies to destroy the missiles on which the warheads had been mounted, as well as the silos which had contained the missiles. Warheads were then destroyed in Russia, with the highly enriched uranium contained in them made into commercial reactor fuel which was purchased by the U.S. under a separate program.\n\nIn recent years, the CTR program has expanded its mission from WMD at the root source to protecting against WMD \"on the move\" by enhancing land and maritime border security in the former Soviet Union.\n\nAccording to the CTR website, CTR has four key objectives:\n\nThese objectives are pursued and achieved through a variety of programs. Briefly, these include:\n\nThe CTR program is authorized by Title 22 of the United States Code, chapter 68a.\n\nThe FY 2007 CTR Annual Report to Congress provides a status update on the program as a whole and individual initiatives. It also details future planned endeavors in each area.\n\nThe Cooperative Threat Reduction Act was a major contributor to De-Escalation of nuclear weapon arsenals. This program was used for \"the transportation, storage, safeguarding and destruction of nuclear and other weapons in the Soviet Union… and to assist in the prevention of weapons proliferation\". One contribution by the Nunn-Lugar program has been the \"delivery of equipment to accelerate the dismantlement of strategic nuclear delivery vehicles\" to the Soviet Union. This program made important contributions in the disarmament of nuclear warheads in many counties. The Nunn-Lugar program eliminated former strategic weapons outside of Russia. This was most evident in the removal of these weapons in Ukraine. There were many countries that had Soviet Union nuclear weapons. Two others included Belarus and Kazakhstan. The Cooperative Threat Reduction Act helped Russia move the nuclear arsenals in these countries back to Russia or dismembering these weapons in these countries. The United States sent \"nearly 700 emergency response items to help guarantee safe and secure transportation of nuclear weapons\" to Belarus for the aid of the elimination of nuclear power in this country. The Cooperative Threat Reduction Act played a major role in a huge decrease in the quantity of nuclear weapons that had been stockpiled during the nuclear escalation period.\n\nAnother important contribution was when the United States sent storage containers to Russia to store fissionable material under their control. The United States provided \"10,000 fissile material storage containers by the end of 1995 and a total of nearly 33,000 containers by early 1997\". These containers aided in Russia’s ability to store nuclear material from dismantled warheads. Another contribution from the United States to Russia was \"75 million dollars to help Russia build a new fissile material storage facility at Chelyabinsk for plutonium \"pits\" from dismantled warheads\". The Nuclear Threat Reduction program was not just used to remove everything fissionable from Russia; it also included ideas for safe storage and transportation of fissionable material in Russia built up during the Cold War and nuclear escalation.\n\nUnder CTR, the U.S. and recipient states have made considerable advancements in global security against the threat of WMD. For example, weapons deactivated and destroyed under this program include:\n\nOther milestone results include:\n\nOne Nunn–Lugar site, Pavlograd, has dedicated itself beginning in June 2004 to the decommissioning of nuclear missiles without burning their solid rocket fuel, thus preventing dioxins from threatening the local environment and human population. The Pavlograd missile factory PMZ has converted to an advanced astronautics \"Space Clipper\" program.\n\nIn May 2009, Russia announced the opening of a major facility to decommission its chemical weapons reserves. Built near vast reserves of the former Soviet Union's weaponry at Shchuchye, Kurgan Oblast, in the Ural Mountains, the site is expected to destroy some 5,500 tons of chemical agents, including Sarin and VX. About one-third of the funding to build the plant, roughly $1 billion, was provided by CTR.\n\nIn 2012, Russia declared that they would not extend the agreement.\n\nIn June 2013, the United States and the Russian Federation signed a new bilateral framework on cooperative threat reduction intended to supersede the CTR. The new agreement is intended to reinforce the longstanding partnership on nonproliferation between these two nations and their activities in Russia and the Former Soviet Republics (FSR). \"This new framework builds upon the success of the 1992 Agreement between the United States of America and the Russian Federation Concerning the Safe and Secure Transportation, Storage and Destruction of Weapons and the Prevention of Weapons Proliferation, commonly known as the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) Umbrella Agreement that expires today. This new bilateral framework authorizes the United States and the Russian Federation to work in several areas of nonproliferation collaboration, including protecting, controlling, and accounting for nuclear materials.\"\n\nIn January 2015, Russian Federation representatives told their US counterparts that Russian would no longer accept US assistance in securing stored weapons-grade nuclear material but said they would continue the program on their own. Joint security work at numerous Russian sites and facilities was cancelled effective Jan. 1, 2015.\n\nNuclear threat reduction is still an issue, even for current presidents. Subsequent programs have built on the Cooperative Threat Reduction, including the Proliferation Security Initiative, initially launched by President Bush in cooperation with Poland in 2003, and built on by multilateral efforts, and then by President Obama.\n\nAlthough the budget for the Cooperative Threat Reduction program has been cut every year since the Obama administration began, the United States still faces many issues when it comes to agreements with Russia in nuclear arms reduction. President Obama had his own ideas for nuclear threat reduction. His plan was to reset nuclear relations with Russia. This plan included a plan to further reduce U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals, which would further reduce the number of nuclear weapons in the world today. This plan was the result of the impending expiration of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I). START was set to expire in December 2009.\n\nIn President Obama’s second term, work on the nuclear threat reduction was said to be more bleak because of relations with Ukraine. This is verified in the quote \"the crisis in Ukraine probably has ruined prospects for another formal Russian-U.S. arms control agreement during the Obama administration’s second term\". As far as reducing nuclear weapons in other countries, besides Ukraine, there is more of a chance of an agreement. This idea is explained in \"countering nuclear weapons proliferation to states and to nonstate actors, the prospects are somewhat better, given mutual Russian and U.S. concerns in that area\". There are still many agreements that have been proposed that can be passed between the United States and Russia as far as nuclear weapons and the control and elimination of them are concerned. As time progresses, the threat of nuclear weapons and the money needed to spend on the elimination of them diminishes. The Cooperative Threat Reduction program has faced many budget cuts since its beginning in 1986 because the program was \"created to deal with yesterday’s strategic weapons and yesterday’s threats have largely diminished\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5509535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5509535", "title": "Overton window", "text": "Overton window\n\nThe Overton window, also known as the window of discourse, describes the range of ideas tolerated in public discourse. The term is derived from its originator, Joseph P. Overton, a former vice president of the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, who, in his description of his window, claimed that an idea's political viability depends mainly on whether it falls within the window, rather than on politicians' individual preferences. According to Overton's description, his window includes a range of policies considered politically acceptable in the current climate of public opinion, which a politician can recommend without being considered too extreme to gain or keep public office.\n\nOverton described a spectrum from \"more free\" to \"less free\" with regard to government intervention, oriented vertically on an axis, to avoid comparison with the left-right political spectrum. As the spectrum moves or expands, an idea at a given location may become more or less politically acceptable. Political commentator Joshua Treviño postulated that the degrees of acceptance of public ideas are roughly:\n\nThe Overton window is an approach to identifying which ideas define the domain of acceptability within a democracy's possible governmental policies. Proponents of policies outside the window seek to convince or persuade the public in order to move and/or expand the window. Proponents of current policies, or similar ones, within the window seek to convince people that policies outside it should be deemed unacceptable.\n\nAfter Overton's death, others have examined the concept of adjusting the window by the deliberate promotion of ideas outside of it, or \"outer fringe\" ideas, with the intention of making less fringe ideas acceptable by comparison. The \"door-in-the-face\" technique of persuasion is similar.\n\nThe idea echoes several earlier expressions, the most recent and similarly academic being Hallin's spheres. In his 1986 book \"The Uncensored War\", communication scholar Daniel C. Hallin posits three areas of media coverage into which a topic may fall. The areas are diagrammed as concentric circles called spheres. From innermost to outermost they are the sphere of consensus, the sphere of legitimate controversy, and the sphere of deviance. Proposals and positions can be placed at varying degrees of distance from the metaphorical center, and political actors can fight over and help change these positions.\n\nHallin's theory is developed and applied primarily as a theory that explains varying levels of objectivity in media coverage, but it also accounts for the ongoing contest among media and other political actors about what counts as legitimate disagreement, potentially leading to changes in the boundaries between spheres. As one study that applies Hallin's theory explains, \"the borders between the three spheres are dynamic, depending on the political climate and on the editorial line of the various media outlets\". In this way, the idea also captures the tug-of-war over the boundaries between normal and deviant political discourse.\n\nAn idea similar to the Overton window was expressed by Anthony Trollope in 1868 in his novel \"Phineas Finn\":\n\nIn his \"West India Emancipation\" speech at Canandaigua, New York, in 1857,\nabolitionist leader Frederick Douglass described how public opinion limits the ability of those in power to act with impunity:\n\n"}
{"id": "24806520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24806520", "title": "Phaedra Ellis-Lamkins", "text": "Phaedra Ellis-Lamkins\n\nPhaedra Ellis-Lamkins is an American social justice advocate and businesswoman.\n\nEllis-Lamkins was the Executive Officer of the South Bay AFL–CIO Labor Council, an organized labor federation representing more than 100 unions and more than 110,000 members in California's Santa Clara and San Benito counties. She was also Executive Director of Working Partnerships USA, a coalition of community groups, and labor and faith organizations working to address economic disparities in California's Silicon Valley. She also served as the CEO of the anti-poverty organization Green For All.\"\n\nIn 2014 Ellis-Lamkins became the manager for the musician Prince, helping him secure ownership of his masters. She is currently Head of Care at Honor, a technology company that offers in home care to the elderly.\n\nAfter graduating from California State University, Northridge in 1998, Ellis-Lamkins became a union organizer with SEIU Local 715 in San Jose. Following a campaign to secure union representation for home health care workers and other low-income employees, Ellis-Lamkins joined the staff of Working Partnerships USA as the group's education coordinator. She led the Labor/Community Leadership Institute and created its first senior fellows program. In this capacity Ellis-Lamkins created the Faith in Action training program for area clergy and lay leaders. Within five years, she was running Working Partnerships USA.\n\nShe also became the Executive Director of the South Bay AFL-CIO Labor Council, a labor federation representing more than 100 unions in Santa Clara and San Benito counties, and more than 110,000 union members.\n\nAs the leader of Working Partnerships USA, Ellis-Lamkins expanded the nation’s first county-based universal children’s health insurance program to cover more than 160,000 children. Thirty other counties have replicated this program throughout California. Ellis-Lamkins also led the fight to create one of the first community benefits agreements in the country, which provided community standards for a large-scale economic development project in San Jose. Working Partnerships was also successful in expanding the living wage under Ellis-Lamkins leadership. Working Partnerships raised $6 million in grants during its first six-years of operation and achieved policy successes at the local level while attracting criticism for the non-profit’s financial ties to the electoral activities of the South Bay Labor Council.\n\nIn 2003, Ellis-Lamkins led the launch of Partnership for Working Families, a national coalition \"dedicated to building power and reshaping the economy and urban environment for workers and communities.\"\n\nEllis-Lamkins joined Green For All as Chief Executive Officer in March 2009.\n\nOne of her first initiatives after taking over Green For All was to build a coalition of \"a broad range of groups — many of whom are not known for their engagement in climate and energy issues.\" This coalition came together to advocate for equity-based amendments to the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (ACES) — the climate bill in the House of Representatives. The coalition declared success when the entire House of Representatives approved a version of ACES that included $860 million for green job training and a provision guaranteeing local workers access to ACES-funded energy-efficiency and renewable energy projects. Green For All describes these as \"the Act’s only provisions creating opportunity for low-income people and people of color.\"\n\nUnder Ellis-Lamkins's leadership, Green For All has also won significant policy victories in Washington State and New Mexico. New Mexico created \"green jobs training programs with a focus on rural, tribal communities and disadvantaged individuals\" and incentives for green companies to relocate to New Mexico. Green For All describes the Washington legislation on its website:\nThe Act puts Washington on the path to weatherize, and otherwise make more energy efficient, 100,000 buildings over the next five years. This will reduce energy costs, create thousands of quality new jobs, and obviate any potential need for new electricity-generating facilities. The Act also guarantees access to these jobs for veterans, members of the National Guard, and low-income and disadvantaged populations.\n\nGreen For All partnered with the city of Portland, Oregon, on cutting edge use of Recovery Act funds. The Portland project will create thousands of clean energy jobs for low-income workers, weatherize 100,000 homes, and launch the first model of paying for home weatherization through utility bills.\n\nEllis-Lamkins has also spearheaded two new campaigns at Green For All. The Capital Access Program, focused on the private sector, \"engages businesses and nonprofits - large and small - to create, sustain, and scale green jobs.\" Green the Block, a campaign of both Green For All and Hip Hop Caucus, is a national effort \"aimed at helping low-income communities of color become driving forces of the clean-energy economy.\"\n\nEllis-Lamkins became the manager for the musician Prince in 2014. Under her management Prince performed a number of concerts to promote social justice causes, including one in Baltimore in honor of Freddie Gray, a man shot to death by Baltimore police.\n\nEllis-Lamkins is credited with winning Prince's life-long battle to secure ownership of his masters. Van Jones described that occasion as \"the happiest I have ever seen him.\"\n\nIn 2015 Ellis-Lamkins joined Honor, Inc. as their Head of Care. Honor is a San Francisco based technology start up that helps people secure in-home health care professionals.\n\n\"San Jose Magazine\" named Ellis-Lamkins one of the 100 most powerful people in Silicon Valley. The \"Silicon Valley Business Journal\" called her one of “40 to watch under 40.” In 2009, Ellis-Lamkins received the Visionary Leadership Award for her work as executive officer of the Labor Council and executive director of Working Partnerships USA.\n\nEllis-Lamkins is an alumna of American Leadership Forum. She has served on the boards of the Progressive Technology Project, New World Foundation, the Women’s Fund of Silicon Valley, the City of San Jose General Plan Update Task Force and the Central Labor Council Advisory Committee. Currently, she serves on the board of the Leadership Council of California Forward and is Chair and Co-Founder of the Partnership for Working Families. Ellis-Lamkins also served as Chair of the Board of Team San Jose, a collaboration to ensure that San Jose’s Convention Center is effectively managed to reduce costs and improve the local economy.\n"}
{"id": "13195059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13195059", "title": "Popular Front of the Canary Islands", "text": "Popular Front of the Canary Islands\n\nThe Popular Front of the Canary Islands () or FREPIC-AWAÑAK is a marginal leftist political party seeking independence from Spain for the Canary Islands.\n\nFREPIC-AWAÑAK was formed by merging minority Canarian political organizations such as Organización para los Comunistas Canarios (OCC), and the PRAIC Partido Revolucionario Africano de las Islas Canarias, which had originated in the Partido de los Trabajadores Canarios (PTC), the former political wing of MPAIAC.\nMPAIAC, Antonio Cubillo's now defunct organization, failed to attract public support among Canarios owing to its violent activity.\n\nThe Popular Front of the Canary Islands (FREPIC-AWAÑAK) defines itself as a “popular organization” continuing Antonio Cubillo's support of Berberism. Its aims are to:\n\n\nThe PFCI (FREPIC-AWAÑAK) has never been able to reach effective political representation and has remained a minority group. Its best electoral results were in 1996 in the Spanish Senate elections where it failed to reach enough votes. From that moment the FREPIC-AWAÑAK has not taken part again in any election. Now changed, his independentist principles foremost Moroccan friendship and help cooperation, like a way to demonstrate that \"golpe de fuerza\" (strong coup) thinking that is the best way to instigate fear against Central Administration and obtain more autonomy.\n\nIts latest policies (from 2000 until today), including its harsh criticism on the Polisario Front and the Spanish government position on the Western Sahara issue, as well as its praising of the Kingdom of Morocco, suggest to many that the FREPIC is getting close to the Moroccan government, and that Morocco would probably be funding the party.\n\nPresently the FREPIC-AWAÑAK is functioning only in Gran Canaria island. Its secretary general is Tomás Quintana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3307020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3307020", "title": "Project Grudge", "text": "Project Grudge\n\nProject Grudge was a short-lived project by the U.S. Air Force to investigate unidentified flying objects (UFOs). Grudge succeeded Project Sign in February, 1949, and was then followed by Project Blue Book. The project formally ended in December 1949, but continued in a minimal capacity until late 1951.\n\nProject Sign had been active from 1947 to 1949. Some of Sign's personnel, including director Robert Sneider, favored the extraterrestrial hypothesis as the best explanation for UFO reports. They prepared the Estimate of the Situation arguing their case. This hypothesis was ultimately rejected by high-ranking officers, and Project Sign was dissolved and replaced by Project Grudge.\n\nIt was announced that Grudge would take over where Sign had left off, still investigating UFO reports. But as Air Force Captain Edward J. Ruppelt wrote, \"In doing this, standard intelligence procedures would be used. This normally means an \"unbiased evaluation\" of intelligence data. But it doesn't take a great deal of study of the old UFO files to see that standard intelligence procedures were not being followed by Project Grudge. Everything was being evaluated on the premise that UFOs couldn't exist. No matter what you see or hear, don't believe it.\" (Ruppelt, 59-60, emphasis his)\n\nRuppelt noted that some of \"ATIC's Air Technical Intelligence Center's top intelligence specialists who had been so eager to work on Project Sign were no longer working on Project Grudge. Some of them had drastically and hurriedly changed their minds about UFOs when they learned the Pentagon was no longer sympathetic to the UFO cause.\" (Ruppelt, 60)\n\nAs Dr. Michael D. Swords writes, \"Inside the military, Maj. Aaron J. Boggs in the Pentagon and Col. Harold Watson at AMC Air Material Command were openly giving the impression that the whole flying saucer business was ridiculous. Project Grudge became an exercise of derision and sloppy filing. Boggs was so enthusiastically antisaucer that General Cabell ordered General Moore to create a more proper atmosphere of skeptical respect for the reports and their observers.\" (Swords, 98)\n\nCritics charged that, from its formation, Project Grudge was operating under a debunking directive: \"all\" UFO reports were judged to have prosaic explanations, though little research was conducted, and some of Grudge's \"explanations\" were strained or even logically untenable. In his 1956 book, Edward J. Ruppelt would describe Grudge as the \"Dark Ages\" of USAF UFO investigation. Grudge’s personnel were in fact conducting little or no investigation, while simultaneously relating that all UFO reports were being thoroughly reviewed. Ruppelt additionally reported that the word \"Grudge\" was chosen deliberately by the anti-saucer elements in the Air Force.\n\nLike Project Sign, Grudge thought that the vast bulk of UFO reports could be explained as misidentified clouds, stars, sun dogs, conventional aircraft or the like. However, unlike Sign which thought some UFOs might have an extraordinary answer, Grudge's personnel thought the remaining minority of reports could be explained away as normal phenomena. Grudge began a public relations campaign to explain their conclusions to the general public.\n\nThe first salvo in the PR campaign came via Sidney Shallet of the \"Saturday Evening Post\", one of the more popular magazines of the era. Shallet's article appeared in two consecutive issues of the \"Post\" (April 30 and May 7, 1949) and generally echoed the Grudge line: Most UFO reports could be easily explained as mundane phenomena misidentified by an eyewitness, the subject was blown out of proportion by the mass media. Shallet suggested that hoaxes and crackpots played a prominent role in popularizing UFOs, and the opinions of many high-ranking military personnel were featured.\n\nThe article also included a few misrepresentations of the facts. Shallet asserted that the Air Force thought the subject was nonsense, and was more or less forced to investigate flying saucers due to public interest—this was manifestly false, as the Air Force took the UFO subject seriously nearly from the beginning. Shallet, of course, did not have access to some secret information, such as the 1947 memorandum by Gen. Nathan Twining that had declared flying saucers a \"real and not visionary\" phenomenon and had kickstarted Project Sign, and did not mention Sign's secret Estimate of the Situation that had argued in favor of an extraterrestrial origin for UFOs.\n\nShallett's article was perhaps the first detailed public discussion of UFOs, let alone with the endorsement of such prominent military men. Grudge had hoped the article would reduce public interest in flying saucers, but the effect was just the opposite: Shallet had mentioned in passing that a small minority of UFO reports seemed to defy analysis, and these statements were seized upon by the press and the curious. Ruppelt wrote that rather than squelching interest, Shallet had \"planted the seed of doubt\" in the general public.\n\nProject Grudge issued its only formal report in August 1949. Though over 600 pages long, the report's conclusions stated:\n\nNot long after this report was released, it was reported that Grudge would soon be dissolved. Despite this announcement, Grudge was not quite finished. A few personnel were still assigned to the project, and they aided the authors of a few more debunking mass media articles.\n\nIn April 1951, Bob Ginna of \"Life\" magazine visited Wright Patterson Air Force Base. Investigating Grudge, he uncovered what Clark describes as \"the project's manifest shortcomings\". (Clark, 239) In response (at least \"for appearances sake\" according to Clark (ibid.) some of the more obviously anti-UFO personnel at Wright Patterson were reassigned. By mid-1951, Grudge consisted only of Lt. Gerry Cummings. According to Ruppelt, Cummings took his job seriously, but found little help or success in his efforts to reverse several years of apathy and dubious research.\n\nOn September 10, 1951, there was a radar/visual UFO encounter near Fort Monmouth in New Jersey. Pilots and radar operators reported encounters with a number of fast-moving, highly maneuverable disc-shaped aircraft. High-ranking personnel ordered an investigation, and Cummings and Lt. Colonel N.R. Rosegarten spent most of 13 September interviewing witnesses and gathering documentation at Ft. Monmouth.\n\nThe duo were then ordered to relate the results of their investigation directly to Major General Charles P. Cabell, then the head of Air Force intelligence at The Pentagon. Cummings and Rosegarten arrived at a meeting already in progress, and found the atmosphere thick with tension. Cabell in particular was distressed by what he saw as the sloppy debunking and lackadaisical attitude Project Grudge brought to bear on a subject he thought deserved serious scrutiny. Cummings and Rosegarten related their conclusions of the Fort Monmouth incident: they agreed with Monmouth personnel who judged the fast moving objects sighted there as being \"intelligently controlled.\" (Clark, 240)\n\nWhen given permission to speak freely to Cabell and the others, Cummings (as Ruppelt wrote) \"cut loose. He told how every UFO report [submitted to Grudge] was taken as a huge joke\" and Grudge had become all but moribund. (Clark, 240)\n\nWhen General Cabell learned that Grudge had essentially ignored UFO reports, he became furious. The Fort Monmouth case had highlighted what critics saw as Air Material Command's sloppy debunking, and at a meeting, a frustrated Cabell was reported to have said, \"I want an open mind; in fact, I \"order\" an open mind! Anyone who doesn't keep an open mind can get out now! ... Why do \"I\" have to stir up the action? Anyone can see that we do not have a satisfactory answer to the saucer question.\" (Swords, p. 103) At another meeting—this one of high-ranking military Colonels—Cabell said, \"I've been lied to, and lied to, and lied to. I want it to stop. I want the answer to the saucers and I want a good answer.\" (Swords, p. 103) Cabell also characterized the 1949 Grudge report as \"tripe\".\n\nLt. Col. N.R. Rosegarten asked Ruppelt to take over as the new project’s leader in late 1951, partly because Ruppelt \"had a reputation as a good organizer.\" (Jacobs, 65) While Cabell wanted Grudge reactivated, he did not want the general public to know that he and some others in the military took UFOs seriously, and ordered the project to keep a low profile. This, he hoped, would protect the military's reputation on both fronts: if the saucer phenomenon was groundless, they could not be accused of sensationalism, but if the phenomenon proved to have some basis in fact, the military could produce serious studies of the subject. Cabell especially did not want the military to be perceived as belittling civilians who had reported UFOs.\n\nGrudge became Project Blue Book. Its first era—directed by Ruppelt—is generally seen as its most open-minded and productive era.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17074823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17074823", "title": "Project IC", "text": "Project IC\n\nProject IC is the name used in Malaysia to describe the allegation of systematic granting of citizenship to immigrants (whether legal or otherwise) by giving them identity cards and subsequently its current iteration, the \"MyKad\". The alleged practice is centred in the state of Sabah in East Malaysia. The term is used mainly by the media as well as other political commentators and the general public. Another term used is Project M, the \"M\" referring to former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad due to his being allegedly involved in the spearheading of this project.\n\nThe alleged object of Project IC is to alter the demographic pattern of Sabah to make it more favourable to the ruling government and certain political parties, especially with regards to changing the electoral voting patterns. Former Dewan Rakyat senator and state assemblyman Chong Eng Leong alleged in 2012 that there are 700,000 \"Project IC citizens\" and that 200,000 of them are on the state electoral roll.\n\nThe project, in its widespread and intensive form, is suspected to have begun in the early 1990s after the entry of United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) into Sabah politics. However, there were also allegations of mass immigration and naturalisation of migrants in the 1970s under the United Sabah National Organisation (USNO) government, and in the early 1980s under BERJAYA government. On a nationwide scale, illegal immigration is a major social issue. The problem is linked with alleged phantom voters also seen in other parts of Malaysia during elections.\n\nNorth Borneo (Sabah) together with Sarawak, Singapore, and Malaya together formed the federation of Malaysia on 16 September 1963. Sabah was multiracial state with no clear majority race, but with the Kadazan-Dusun as the largest ethnic group. Unlike other states in Peninsular Malaysia, the majority of natives or bumiputras in Sabah are non-Muslims. In 1960, the state comprised:\n\nBased on this ethnic composition, the Kadazan-Dusun dominated the political scene and the first chief minister appointed was Tun Fuad Stephens, a Kadazan-Dusun. Tun Fuad played an important role in the negotiations involving the independence of Sabah together with Tun Mustapha, a Bajau. After the formation, Tun Mustapha was made governor (Yang di-Pertua Negeri). Subsequent to this, various political parties, mostly racially based, took turns in helming government. Tun Mustapha's United Sabah National Organisation (USNO) took control of the state in 1967. The mainly Bajau Muslim party relied on Muslim votes in elections. Similarly for other Kadazan-based party or Chinese-based party, who rely on votes from their respective communities. Later, BERJAYA took control of the state. This party was more multiracial in its composition of member, but was headed by Muslim leaders such as Harris Salleh. There had been allegations of mass naturalisation of illegal immigrants during the tenure of Tun Mustapha and Harris Salleh including the deliberate classification of immigrants under the name \"pribumi\" during the reign of BERJAYA.\n\nThere was even one instance of Harris Salleh openly admitting to carrying out and planning to overwhelm the demography of Sabah in favour of Muslims. During the Royal Commission of Inquiry on illegal immigrants in Sabah in 2013, Harris Salleh also stated that the issuance of identity card and granting of citizenship to refugees were done legally in accordance with the Federal Constitution and the relevant United Nations charter. He added that Malaysia's first prime minister Tunku Abdul Rahman had announced in early 1970 that Muslim refugees can stay in Malaysia while non-Muslim refugees may prefer to go elsewhere.\n\nMeanwhile, on a national level, politics were dominated by UMNO, a Malay-based party. Both USNO and BERJAYA had worked closely with UMNO at certain points in history. In 1985, a largely Kadazan-Dusun party, Parti Bersatu Sabah (PBS), won in the state election that year. The 1986 Sabah riots ensued in shortly after the results were announced to bring down the party president, Joseph Pairin Kitingan, as chief minister. In 1990, BERJAYA and USNO, decided to dissolve their party and form the Sabah chapter of UMNO. This party relied on membership from Muslim citizens of Sabah, be they Bajau, Suluk, Bugis, or others. The practice of naturalising immigrants was further intensified to guarantee their dominance in Sabah. They realised a great potential in altering the demography in their favour since most immigrants into Sabah were Muslims from Indonesia and southern Philippines. Later in 1994, UMNO managed to get hold of the government despite losing in the elections that year. In 2006, the estimated ethnic composition of Sabah are as follows:\n\nProject IC is not so concerned with the 25% of non-citizens as this denotes immigrants without Malaysian ICs. The main point of contention when comparing the statistics for 1960 and 2006 is with regards to the sharp increase of \"Malays\", as well as the large number of \"Other Bumiputras\". There is also the significant drop in the percentage of the non-Muslim population, namely, Kadazan-Dusuns, Muruts, and Chinese. After Barisan Nasional regained power in 1994, the rotation system was introduced, whereby the chief minister's post is rotated among the representatives of the three different communities in Sabah, namely, the Muslim Bumiputras, Non-Muslim Bumiputras, and the Chinese. However, after 2005, BN decided to do away with the rotation system, giving the post to UMNO's representative, led by current chief minister Musa Aman. Following the 2008 state election, BN currently controls the state winning 59 out of 60 state assembly seats on offer. Out of the 59 BN seats, 32 are from UMNO, while the rest are held by various predominantly non-Muslim parties.\n\nThe project is a complex matter involving political parties as well as government agencies including the Election Commission of Malaysia, the National Registration Department and the Immigration Department, which comes under the purview of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The suspicions and allegations on the existence of Project IC started around the mid-1990s.\n\nIn 1999, a petition was made to nullify the results of the 1999 state election for the constituency of Likas based on the thousands of dubious names found on the electoral roll. The seat was won by Sabah Progressive Party (SAPP) candidate, president, and former chief minister, Yong Teck Lee. SAPP is part of the Barisan Nasional coalition. The petitioner was Chong Eng Leong of Parti Bersatu Sabah (PBS), who lost that seat. PBS was at that time not part of the BN coalition. One of the witness at the petition was Mutalib Mohd Daud, the former Silam Umno Division Executive Secretary. Mutalib was from Peninsular Malaysia and migrated to Sabah in the 1970s. He noted at the petition that among the 43,000 newly recruited UMNO members only 14,000 had genuine identity cards.\n\nMutalib had written books exposing accounts of questionable granting of citizenship to foreigners. Among his books were \"IC Palsu: Merampas Hak Anak Sabah\" (1999) (\"Fake IC: Taking Away the Rights of Sabahans\"), \"Pengundi Untuk Disewa\" (\"Voters for Rent\"), \"IC Projek Agenda Tersembunyi Mahathir?\" (2006) (\"IC Project, Mahathir's Hidden Agenda?\"), and \"Lelaki Malaysia Terakhir\" (2007) (\"The Last Malaysian\").\n\nAnother witness was UMNO's chief information officer Karim bin Ghani who was alleged to have written a letter to all UMNO branches in Sabah. The letter purportedly contained directions on the handling of Project IC. Karim claimed that he did not write the letter and that his signature was forged. The judge viewed his bare denial with deep suspicion.\n\nThe judge presiding the petition, Justice Muhammad Kamil bin Awang, ruled in favour of the petitioner and declared that the 1999 election result for Likas a nullity. He mentioned in his judgment that he had received instructions over the phone to have the petitions struck out without hearing—an instruction which he dutifully ignored.\n\nIn 2007, the former Sandakan district chief Hassnar Ebrahim made a statement confessing being involved in Project IC. He was a former detainee of the Internal Security Act in 1998. He testified in the petition for the annulment of the Likas state assembly district election in 1999. Hassnar exposed in specific details of the modus operandi of project of which he had witnessed. He mentioned a secret meeting between former Sabah chief minister Harris Salleh and federal minister Megat Junid Megat Ayub in Hong Kong. Hassnar claimed that 130,000 illegal immigrants were given ICs in 1985 alone. He also claimed that the aim of the operation was to increase the Muslim population of Sabah. DR M.\n\nIt has been said that the project was a secret policy of the Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition, in particular the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), to attain political domination in the state using the votes of these immigrants. The immigrants are picked from those communities which would more closely resemble the Malay culture or those who would most easily be assimilated into Malay culture. Main indicators would be if the immigrants were Muslims and if they speak Malay. It was acknowledged by the judge in the 1999 Likas petition in reference to 'Ops Gembeling', that the target of the operation were the \"Malays of Bugis origin\".\n\nIn response to a 2007 Parliamentary Select Committee, popular Malaysian news blog Malaysia Today alleges that UMNO had made a deal with the government of Libya and the Abu Sayyaf militant Islamic group in the Philippines to bring in 1 million new Muslim voters from Philippines into Sabah.\n\nFormer Parti Keadilan Rakyat vice-president Jeffrey Kitingan alleges that there are 600,000 immigrants with ICs out of an estimated 1.7 million foreigners in Sabah. The estimated population in Sabah in 2006 was 2,997,000. Most of the foreigners in Sabah are from Indonesia and the Philippines.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, several government officers were arrested under the Internal Security Act for their involvements in Project IC. A Parliamentary Select Committee on Integrity was set up to hear testimonies of some of the detainees in February 2007. The committee was chaired by Sabah Member of Parliament Bernard Dompok. On 16 May 2007, Dompok quit as chairman of the committee over disagreements on the function and scope of the committee, in particular, over the refusal of the National Registration Department to appear before the committee. Later on, the findings of the committee was never made public.\n\nIn May 2008, Member of Parliament (MP) Lim Kit Siang tabled a motion to set up a Royal Commission to investigate the problems relating to illegal immigrants in Sabah. The motion however was rejected by the Deputy Speaker of the Dewan Rakyat, Ronald Kiandee saying that the motion was irrelevant and was tabled at the wrong time. Several MPs from Sabah gave lukewarm response towards the proposed motion preferring instead a Parliamentary Select Committee which would necessitate the involvement of elected MPs, especially from Sabah.\n\nSubsequently, Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi announced the setting up of a high powered cabinet committee chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Najib Tun Razak to resolve this matter. However, senior Sabahan politician Chong Eng Leong argued that similar committees had been set up in 2000 and 2006 without much results. The Consumers Association of Sabah and Labuan (CASH) contends that the announcement of, among others, the setting up of the cabinet committee, was a mere lip service to pacify the people of Sabah.\n\nThere has been several government crackdown operation to deport illegal immigrants since the 1990s. The latest crackdown is due to begin in August 2008. These operations will serve to deport immigrants without proper documentations such as ICs or a valid work permit. It does not serve to address the issue of Project IC.\n\nOn 1 June 2012, Prime Minister Najib Razak announced that the federal government has agreed to set up a Royal Commission of Inquiry (RCI) to investigate problems related to illegal immigration in Sabah. The Attorney-General of Malaysia was entrusted to draw the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the purpose of the commission. On 11 August 2012, the government officially announced the formation of the RCI including the members of the commission and the TORs. Political commentators have observed that the RCI appears to be a knee-jerk reaction to the defection of several prominent Sabahan BN politicians, who resigned in protest only a few days earlier because of the federal government's reluctance to deal with Sabah's immigration problems. The Royal Commission released a report absolving the Malaysian government of ever creating Project IC and blaming corrupt officials and syndicates of creating the problem.\n\nThe commission member are as follows:\n\nThere are 8 TORs:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8914998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8914998", "title": "Revolutionary Marxist–Leninist League", "text": "Revolutionary Marxist–Leninist League\n\nThe Revolutionary Marxist–Leninist League was a small Maoist political party in Britain.\n\nThe group was founded in 1968 by a group of students around Abhimanyu Manchanda, who had been expelled from the CPGB in 1965. It participated in the Joint Committee of Communists, but suffered two splits the following year: of the Communist Workers League of Britain (Marxist–Leninist), and of the Association of Communist Workers around Harpal Brar. In 1971, a further group left, to found the Marxist-Leninist Workers Association, which later merged via the Communist Unity Association into the Revolutionary Communist League of Britain.\n\nIn 1977, the group was renamed the Revolutionary Marxist-Leninist Communist League, and it attempted to apply the Three Worlds Theory by working to build anti-Soviet movements in Britain. This did not prove successful, and the group dissolved in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "22862006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22862006", "title": "Saint Theophilus of Corte", "text": "Saint Theophilus of Corte\n\nSaint Theophilus of Corte (30 October 1676 – 17 June 1740) - born Biagio Arrighi - was an Italian Roman Catholic priest and a professed member from the Order of Friars Minor. Arrighi became known for his preaching and evangelization efforts and acted as a reformer in establishing houses for the Franciscans in northern Italian cities and throughout the Corsica island where he was born. He was known for his cheerful demeanor and his willingness to assist others while also known for his tireless dedication to silence and solitude which he exhorted his fellow friars to exercise in order to better commune with God.\n\nHe was beatified in 1896 and was canonized as a saint on 29 June 1930.\n\nBiagio Arrighi was born on 30 October 1676 in Corsica to the nobles Giovanni Antonio and Maddalena.\n\nHe studied under the Franciscans and on 21 September 1693 joined their order and assumed his religious name. He loved silence and solitude and found it a better method of communication with the Lord while exhorting his fellow Franciscans to do the same to reflect on the goodness of God. He completed his theological studies in Rome with distinctions and began his theological studies in Naples. Theophilus made his solemn profession in Salerno in 1694 and was ordained to the priesthood in Naples at the convent of Santa Maria La Nova on 30 November 1700. Once he was ordained he begged his superiors for permission to repair an old convent at Civitella near Subiaco. He founded houses for the order in the Tuscan region and in Corscia in places such as Zuani and Fucecchio. He was a reformer who become known for his preaching and evangelization efforts and for his cheerful disposition.\n\nBrother Theophilus first met Saint Tommaso da Cori in 1702 in Bellegra and would live with him for the next decade until 1709 when he was stationed in Palombra until 1715. He served as the guardian of that convent from 1713 to 1715 before he would return to Bellegra. He was in Rome from 1734 until 1735 when he was moved to Bellegra once more.\n\nTheophilus died on 17 June 1740.\n\nThe cause for his canonization opened after his death in 1750 and Pope Benedict XIV named him as Venerable on 21 November 1755. The cause culminated on 19 January 1896 after Pope Leo XIII beatified him while Pope Pius XI later proclaimed him to be a saint on 29 June 1930.\n\n"}
{"id": "1221872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1221872", "title": "Self-coup", "text": "Self-coup\n\nA self-coup (or autocoup, from the Spanish \"autogolpe\") is a form of putsch or coup d'état in which a nation's leader, despite having come to power through legal means, dissolves or renders powerless the national legislature and unlawfully assumes extraordinary powers not granted under normal circumstances. Other measures taken may include annulling the nation's constitution, suspending civil courts and having the head of government assume dictatorial powers.\n\n"}
{"id": "46657440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46657440", "title": "Stoßtrupp-Hitler", "text": "Stoßtrupp-Hitler\n\nStoßtrupp-Hitler or Stosstrupp-Hitler (\"Shock Troop-Hitler\") was a small short-lived bodyguard unit set up specifically for Adolf Hitler in 1923. Notable members included Rudolf Hess, Julius Schreck, Joseph Berchtold, Emil Maurice, Erhard Heiden, Ulrich Graf, and Bruno Gesche.\n\nIn the earliest days of the Nazi Party, the leadership realized that a bodyguard unit composed of zealous and reliable men was needed. Ernst Röhm formed a guard formation from the \"19.Granatwerfer-Kompanie\"; from this formation the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA) soon evolved. In early 1923, Hitler ordered a separate small bodyguard unit formed. It was dedicated to his service rather than \"a suspect mass\" of the party, such as the SA. Originally the unit was composed of only eight men, commanded by Julius Schreck and Joseph Berchtold. It was designated the \"Stabswache\" (staff guard). The \"Stabswache\" were issued unique badges, but at this point the \"Stabswache\" was still under overall SA control. Schreck resurrected the use of the \"Totenkopf\" (i.e. skull) as the unit's insignia, a symbol various elite forces had used throughout the Prussian kingdom and the later German Empire.\nIn May 1923, the unit was renamed \"Stoßtrupp\"–Hitler. The unit numbered no more than 20 members at that time. All were considered Hitler loyalists. According to the Historical Lexicon of Bavaria the unit later had around 100 members. On 9 November 1923, the \"Stoßtrupp\", along with the SA and several other Nazi paramilitary units, took part in the abortive Beer Hall Putsch in Munich. In the aftermath, Hitler was imprisoned and his party and all associated formations, including the \"Stoßtrupp\", were disbanded.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23628324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23628324", "title": "Swedish National Audit Office", "text": "Swedish National Audit Office\n\nThe Swedish National Audit Office () is the agency responsible for oversight of the state finances through financial and performance-based audits of state agencies, state-owned companies and the Government of Sweden. It serves directly under the Riksdag and is therefore independent of the Cabinet. All state agencies are required to submit copies of their annual accounts and reports to this office for review.\n\nThe mission of the Swedish National Audit Office is to examine the government's activities in order to contribute to the effective management of state administration. The agency is led by three Auditors General (\"riksrevisorer\") who are appointed for seven-year terms without the possibility of re-appointment. The Auditors General decide independently on aspects of the state government to be audited, how to do its investigations. The independence of the office and the Auditors General is specified in Chapter 13 of the \"Regeringsformen\", which is part of the Constitution of Sweden. The current Auditors General for the period 2017–2024 are Stefan Lundgren, Ingvar Mattson and Helena Lindberg.\n\nThe office was founded on 1 July 2003 through a merger of Riksdagens revisorer (\"auditors of the Riksdag\") and Riksrevisionsverket (\"national audit office\"), after the Riksdag decided on said merger on 15 December 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44586402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44586402", "title": "The Holy State and the Profane State", "text": "The Holy State and the Profane State\n\nThe Holy State and the Profane State (Prophane in the original, sometimes shortened to The Holy State) is a 1642 book by English churchman and historian Thomas Fuller. It describes the holy state as existing in the family and in public life, gives rules of conduct, model \"characters\" for the various professions and profane biographies. It was perhaps the most popular of Fuller's writings, having been reprinted four times after the first run sold out.\n\nThe book contains four volumes, three of which outline the characteristics of archetypes such as \"the good husband\", \"the good servant\", and \"the good widow\", and the fourth containing biographies intended to illustrate profane people.\n\n"}
{"id": "55794893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55794893", "title": "The International Institute for Justice and the Rule of Law", "text": "The International Institute for Justice and the Rule of Law\n\nThe International Institute for Justice and the Rule of Law, also referred to as The IIJ or Malta Institute, is an International body, which aims to improve governance within underdeveloped countries, with its main focus on counter-terrorism. The IIJ was founded in 2014 by twelve founding nations and is based in Valletta, Malta. It is often referred to as a Global Counter-Terrorism Forum inspired institution. The founding nations include the Netherlands, United Kingdom, France, the United States and the EU. It also partnered with a number of International federations, such as the United Nations and the EU.\n\nSince 2014, the IIJ has focused on improving rule of law within Africa and also the Middle East. Its main objective is to train justice sector practitioners and also minimise terrorism in the regions.\n\nIn June 2014, it was announced that the International Institute for Justice and the Rule of Law (IIJ) would open in Valletta, Malta. The institute is closely supported by the Global Counterterrorism Forum and the United Nations. The IIJ was conceived during meetings by Ministers and senior officials of the Global Counterterrorism Forum, an organisation of about 40 countries from around the globe. It was founded by twelve founding member nations, with the help of institutions such as the EU and the United Nations. The nations included Algeria, France, Italy, Jordan, Malta, Morocco, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom, and the United States. The IIJ was referred to as a \"Global Counterterrorism Forum inspired institution\" at the time of its foundation and is often compared to two similar institutions, Hedayah and GCERF.\n\nAt the meeting where the IIJ's foundation was announced, partners and representatives from founding members signed the Valletta Declaration on the International Institute for Justice and the Rule of Law Foundation. Some of the partners who signed the declaration included the International Centre for Counter-Terrorism (ICCT), the Global Center on Cooperative Security (GCCS) and the Institute for Security Studies (ISS).\n\nAfter the foundation of the IIJ, it became clear that its main focus is counter-terrorism. While the IIJ undertakes a variety of roles, the majority of its programs are closely linked to counter-terrorism. It aims to provide support to lawmakers, police, prosecutors, judges, and similar personnel on how to deal with challenges and terrorism within their regions and borders. One such example is how counter terrorism laws could be implemented and how rule of law can promote and improve societies within certain regions, by promoting justice, security and human rights. The IIJ at the time planned to play an influential role in supporting African and Middle Eastern countries that were in a period of transition.\n\nAfter the Institution opened, it held its inaugural support and training session. The two-day event brought together prosecutors and investigators who discussed how to deal with terrorist cells in the Sahel and Maghreb. The focus was on how to stem the flow of foreign fighters joining ISIS' fight in Syria from the two African regions. Following the inaugural event, a number of workshops were scheduled, including the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) work with building legal cooperation between Libya and other North African countries to stem the funding of terrorism.\n\nIn late 2014, the University of Malta and the IIJ announced that they had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to promote their aims to advance peace and security. The MOU will result in a collaboration between the two parties on research and training, while expertise will also be shared.\n\nBy the second anniversary, over a thousand professionals, including lawmakers, police and judges had received training or support from the IIJ. This support continued their original strategy of addressing terrorism and minimising criminal activity.\n\nThe IIJ will be moving its operations to Birgu from Valletta, after an announcement from the Maltese government in 2016. The majority of the renovations for the historical building were paid for by the United States, according to The Malta Independent. The move is expected to take place after 2019 once renovations are complete.\n\nMalta was chosen as the home for the Institute and is the location that training and support will take place. Its geographical location is centralised to provide support between Europe, the Middle East and also Africa. While the twelve founding nations play a part in the way the Institute operates, the day-today operations are controlled by the Executive Secretary.\n\nAfter the launch of the IIJ, the International Centre for Counter-Terrorism suggested in a press release that the focus of the IIJ wouldn't only be focused at improving governance within regions associated with terrorism, but would also work to strengthen criminal justice systems and also build regional judicial systems to improve local policing in areas of the world that had been previously neglected. In late 2014, the IIJ hosted a United Nations-based summit to discuss the role foreign terrorist fighters play in everyday society and what laws could be introduced.\n\nThe theme of IIJ's summits continued into 2015, when they held a roundtable meeting for lawmakers from North Africa, Europe and the Middle East. The roundtable discussed how they could implement support for senior lawmakers and government officials in the regions present. The policy was supported by the Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate (CTED), the project is implemented by the Global Center on Cooperative Security (Global Center) and the Institute for Security Studies (ISS).\n\nThe Valletta Recommendations Relating to Contributions by Parliamentarians in Developing an Effective Response to Terrorism was developed during workshops ran by the IIJ. The then Maltese Home Affairs Minister Carmelo Abela then addressed a two-day workshop in early 2017, discussing how terrorist groups such as ISIS needed to be stopped from spreading their propaganda on social media. Abela stated that he and the IIJ were working closely with Google, Facebook and Twitter on the matter.\n\nOfficial website of The IIJ\n"}
{"id": "213302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213302", "title": "Tomás de Torquemada", "text": "Tomás de Torquemada\n\nTomás de Torquemada (October 14, 1420 – September 16, 1498) was a Castilian Dominican friar and first Grand Inquisitor in Spain's movement to homogenize religious practices with those of the Catholic Church in the late 15th century, otherwise known as the Spanish Inquisition, which resulted in the expulsion from Spain of thousands of people of Jewish and Muslim faith and heritage and the execution of 3,000 to 5,000 people.\n\nMainly because of persecution, Muslims and Jews in Spain at that time found it socially, politically, and economically expedient to convert to Catholicism (see \"Converso\", Morisco, and Marrano). The existence of superficial converts (i.e., Crypto-Jews) was perceived by the Spanish monarchs of that time (King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella) as a threat to the religious and social life of Spain. This led Torquemada, who himself had converso ancestors, to be one of the chief supporters of the Alhambra Decree that expelled the Jews from Spain in 1492.\n\nTorquemada was born on October 14, 1420, either in Valladolid, in the Kingdom of Castile, or in the nearby village of Torquemada.  He came from a family of conversos (converts from Judaism); his uncle, Juan de Torquemada, was a celebrated theologian and cardinal, whose grandmother was a \"conversa.\" The 15th Century chronicler, Hernando del Pulgar, who was a contemporary to de Torquemada, and himself a \"converso\", recorded that Tomás de Torquemada's uncle, Juan de Torquemada, had an ancestor, Álvar Fernández de Torquemada, who was married to a first-generation \"conversa\".\n\nTorquemada entered the local San Pablo Dominican monastery at a very young age. As a zealous advocate of church orthodoxy, he earned a solid reputation for learning, piety, and austerity. As a result, he was promoted to prior of the monastery of Santa Cruz at Segovia. Around this time, he met the young Princess Isabella I, and the two immediately established religious and ideological rapport. For a number of years, Torquemada served as her regular confessor and personal advisor. He was present at Isabella's coronation in 1474, and remained her closest ally and supporter. He even advised her to marry King Ferdinand of Aragon in 1469, in order to consolidate their kingdoms and form a power base he could draw on for his own purposes.\n\nTorquemada deeply feared the Marranos and Moriscos as a menace to Spain's welfare by both their increasing religious influence, and their economic domination of Spain. The Crown of Aragon had Dominican inquisitors almost continuously throughout much of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella petitioned Pope Sixtus IV to grant their request for a Holy Office to administer an inquisition in Spain. The Pope granted their request, and established the Holy Office for the Propagation of the Faith in late 1478. The papal bull gave the sovereigns full powers to name inquisitors. Rome retained the right to formally appoint the royal nominees. Henry Charles Lea observed that the Spanish Inquisition in both Castile and Aragon remained firmly under Ferdinand's direction throughout the joint reign.\n\nThe Pope went on to appoint a number of inquisitors for the Spanish Kingdoms in early 1482, including Torquemada. A year later he was named Grand Inquisitor of Spain, which he remained until his death in 1498. In the fifteen years under his direction, the Spanish Inquisition grew from the single tribunal at Seville to a network of two dozen Holy Offices. As Grand Inquisitor, Torquemada reorganized the Spanish Inquisition (originally based in Castile in 1478), establishing tribunals in Sevilla, Jaén, Córdoba, Ciudad Real, and (later) Saragossa. His quest was to rid Spain of all heresy. The Spanish chronicler, Sebastián de Olmedo, called him \"the hammer of heretics, the light of Spain, the savior of his country, the honor of his order.\"\n\nTorquemada saw that the condemned were made to wear a sanbenito, a penitential garment worn over clothing, bearing a design that specified the type of penitence, if any. One type, worn by those sentenced to death, had designs of hell's flames, or sometimes demons, dragons, and/or snakes on it. Another type had a cross, and was worn instead of imprisonment, then hung in the parish church.\n\nThe Treaty of Granada (1491), as negotiated at the final surrender of the Muslim state of Al-Andalus, clearly mandated protection of religious rights, but this was reversed just over 3 months later by the Alhambra Decree of March 31, 1492. Under the new Decree, approximately 40,000 Jews were expelled from Spain with only their personal possessions. Another approximately 50,000 Jews received a Christian baptism so as to remain in Spain; many of these, derogatorily dubbed \"Marranos\" (literally, \"Swines\") by the Old Christian majority, secretly kept some of their Jewish traditions. They were one of the chief targets of the Inquisition, but it also pursued anyone who would criticize it.\n\nThere are various estimates of the number of victims of the Spanish Inquisition during Torquemada's reign as Grand Inquisitor. It is thought unlikely that there were more than 2,000 executed for heresy. Hernando del Pulgar, Queen Isabella's secretary, wrote that 2,000 executions took place throughout the entirety of her reign, which extended well beyond Torquemada's death.\n\nDuring his final years, Torquemada's failing health, coupled with widespread complaints, caused Pope Alexander VI to appoint four assistant inquisitors in June 1494 to restrain the Spanish Inquisition. After fifteen years as Spain's Grand Inquisitor, Torquemada died in the monastery of St. Thomas Aquinas in Ávila on September 16, 1498, and was interred there. His tomb was ransacked in 1832—only two years before the Inquisition was finally disbanded. His bones were allegedly stolen and ritually incinerated as though an \"auto-da-fé\" took place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43082883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43082883", "title": "Tracey Johnston-Aldworth", "text": "Tracey Johnston-Aldworth\n\nTracey Johnston-Aldworth is a Canadian businesswoman and entrepreneur, based in the Waterloo region of Ontario, who is known for her public service and environmental activism. Her firm Traces Printing, founded in 1985 and emphasizing employee profit-sharing, was lauded for its efforts to recycle materials, reduce energy consumption, save water, and use ink efficiently. She was recognized by the Government of Ontario for her work promoting environmentalism and sustainability. Her firm was featured in a 1995 documentary \"Stop Waste From Adding Up\".\n"}
{"id": "17898169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17898169", "title": "United States Security Assistance Organizations", "text": "United States Security Assistance Organizations\n\nUnited States Security Assistance Organizations (SAOs) are military and civilian personnel stationed in foreign countries to manage security assistance and other military programs. SAOs are closest to these programs' operation and have the closest contact with host-country militaries.\n\nSAOs go by different names in different countries. These names include Military Groups (MILGROUPs), Military Assistance and Advisory Groups (MAAGs), Military Liaison Offices (MLOs), Offices of the Defense Representative (ODRs), Offices of Security Cooperation (OSC) (one example is the Office of Defense Cooperation Turkey), and the Office of Military Cooperation (OMC). In general, they are not to be confused with defense attachés, who normally play a more diplomatic role. Many U.S. Embassies have both defense attachés and SAOs.\n\nSAOs' duties are officially referred to as \"overseas military program management.\"\n\nSpecific responsibilities may include:\n\n\nTypically, these responsibilities require an SAO to carry out the following tasks listed in the Department of Defense Manual, The Management of Security Assistance:\n\n\nSAOs also coordinate or participate in activities not traditionally regarded as \"security assistance,\" such as exercises and deployments, humanitarian civic assistance activities, exchanges, conferences and other military-to-military contact programs.\n\nSection 515 (e) of the Foreign Assistance Act states that SAOs are to be under the direct supervision of the Ambassador to the country in which they are stationed. However, The Management of Security Assistance probably reflects reality more closely: \"The Chief of the SAO is essentially responsible to three authorities: the Ambassador (who heads up the country team), the Commander of the Unified Command, and the Director, Defense Security Cooperation Agency.\"2\n\nFunding for the portion of SAO salaries and operating costs used to manage security assistance comes from the Foreign Military Financing (FMF) program and from administrative surcharges on Foreign Military Sales (FMS).\n\nSection 515 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (P.L. 87-195, or the \"FAA\"), as amended, governs SAO staffing and responsibilities.\n\nLimitations\n\nSection 515(b) mandates that SAOs keep advisory and training assistance to an absolute minimum. This provision's intent is to specify that SAOs should manage training and advice provided by others, not carry it out themselves.\n\n\nReporting\n\n\nNotification\n\n\n"}
{"id": "543799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543799", "title": "Wise use movement", "text": "Wise use movement\n\nThe wise use movement in the United States is a loose-knit coalition of groups promoting the expansion of private property rights and reduction of government regulation of publicly held property. This includes advocacy of expanded use by commercial and public interests, seeking increased access to public lands, and often opposition to government intervention. Wise use proponents describe human use of the environment as \"stewardship of the land, the water and the air\" for the benefit of human beings. The wise use movement arose from opposition to the mainstream environmental movement, and some critics see it as anti-environmentalist.\n\nOrganized opposition efforts have generally targeted environmental legislation, such as the Endangered Species Act, and wetland protection measures by the Environmental Protection Agency. Wise use proponents contend that mainstream environmentalist ideology is excessive and radical, and argue that such ideology aims to make revolutionary changes to the existing political and economic orders.\n\nA range of groups belong to the wise use movement, including industry, grassroots organizations of loggers, mill workers, ranchers, farmers, miners, off-road vehicle users, and property owners. It also includes libertarians, populists, and religious and political conservatives. The movement became known as \"wise use\" after the 1988 Multiple Use Strategy Conference in Reno, Nevada. The movement includes or is supported by most anti-environmentalist groups, by companies in the resource extraction industry, by land development companies, and by libertarian and minarchist organizations. The movement was most active in the Western United States in the late 1980s and 1990s.\n\nAccording to James McCarthy (2002), the most prominent wise use groups receive most of their support from resource extraction industries (Amoco, British Petroleum, Chevron, Exxon/Mobile, Marathon Oil) as well as the \nAmerican Farm Bureau, Dupont, Yamaha, General Electric, General Motors, National Cattlemen's Association, and the National Rifle Association). The policies and political orientations of groups in the wise use movement range from some who self-identify as free-market environmentalists, to industry-backed public relations groups and mainstream think tanks, to some militia groups and fundamentalist religious groups. Major organizations promoting wise use ideas include Alliance for America, the American Land Rights Association, the Cato Institute, the Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise, People for the West, the Blue Ribbon Coalition, and the Heartland Institute.\n\nMost members of the wise use movement, including the related County Movement, share a belief in individual rights, as opposed to the authority of the federal government, in particular with regard to the rights of land use. They argue that the environmental movement is both anti-private property and anti-people. While some in the wise use movement have strongly anti-environmental views, others assert that the free market, rather than government regulation, will better protect the environment.\n\nMany wise use groups argue that rural residents suffer a disproportionate impact from environmental regulations, and that the environmental movement is biased toward the attitudes of urban elites, ignoring the rural perspective. Opponents observe that the extractive forces behind the wise use movement harm rural residents more and prey on the independence of rural residents - preaching the \"right to ride\" when behind that is the desire to strip mine and clearcut using unsustainable methods. Some environmentalists disagree with the Sierra Club's \"no-cut forest\" policy. Steve Thompson wrote the goal of the policy should be to \"provide greater flexibility to achieve true forest restoration. A blanket, one-size-fits-all 'zero cut' policy severely restricts the Sierra Club's ability to provide solutions to complex forest mismanagement problems.\"\nWise use groups depict themselves as (and seek to promote themselves as) true environmentalists with close ties to the land, and cast environmental groups as advocating radical environmentalism. Wise use groups also downplay threats to the environment, and highlight uncertainties in environmental science that they argue environmental groups ignore or conceal. Wise use groups also portray the environmentalist movement as having a hidden agenda to control land.\n\nThe Wise Use movement first gained prominence in 1988 when Ron Arnold, a vice-president of the Center for the Defense of Free Enterprise, helped an organize conference that led to adoption of a 25-point \"Wise Use Agenda\". This agenda included initiatives seeking unrestricted commercial use of public lands for timber, mining, and oil, and to open recreational wilderness areas for easier access by the general public. Critics point out that Ron Arnold has been quoted as saying his goal is to \"destroy the environmental movement\".\n\nAccording to Arnold, many in the wise use movement believe the possibility of unlimited economic growth, in which environmental and social problems can be mitigated by market economy and the use of technology. In his book \"Ecology Wars\", which has been called the \"Bible\" of the wise use movement, Arnold writes: \"Environmentalism is an institutionalized movement of certain people with a certain ideology about man and nature\" and that \"the goal of our ecology wars should be to defeat environmentalism.\" Arnold claims that environmentalism is \"the excess baggage of anti-technology, of anti-civilization, of anti-humanity, and of institutionalized lust for political power.\"\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, the management focus on public lands shifted from the harvest of timber to ecological goals such as improvement of habitat, largely as a response to the environmental movement. The resultant reduction in timber harvest contributed to the closure of sawmills and the layoff of loggers and other workers. Some members of the wise use movement objected to what they saw as a shifting of control of federal land resources from local to outside, urban interests. They argued that the National Forests were established for the benefit of the local community. They cite Gifford Pinchot, who wrote \"It is the duty of the Forest Service to see to it that the timber, water-powers, mines, and every other resource of the forests is used for the benefit of the people who live in the neighborhood or who may have a share in the welfare of each locality.\" Wise use members have also argued that continued access to public lands is necessary to maintain the health, culture and traditions of local communities.\n\nJill M. Belsky, a professor of Rural & Environmental Sociology at the University of Montana, wrote:\n\nAcademics Ralph Maughan and Douglas Nilsona write that wise use is a \"desperate effort to defend the hegemony of the cultural and economic values of the agricultural and extractive industries of the rural West\", and have \"argued that the Wise Use agenda stemmed from an ideology that combined \"laissez-faire\" capitalism with cultural characteristics of an imagined Old West\"\n\nSome critics of the wise use movement claim that the strong rhetoric used has deepened divisions between opposing interest groups, and has indirectly increased violence and threats of violence against environmental groups and public employees. \"Many observers noted that Wise Use activity in some areas overlapped heavily with the 1990s formation and growth of militias, self-styled volunteer paramilitary organizations presciently committed to their own version of homeland security.\"\n\nEnvironmental historian Richard White has criticized Wise Use for upholding the rights of large landowners at the expense of working rural people in his essay, \"'Are You an Environmentalist or Do You Work for a Living?': Work and Nature.\"\n\nBroadcast journalist Stephenie Hendricks claimed in her book \"Divine Destruction\" that wise use is in part \"being driven by biblical fundamentalists who believe exhausting natural resources will hasten the Second Coming of Jesus Christ.\"\n\nEnvironmental activists have argued that the wise use movement is orchestrated largely or entirely by industry. David Helvarg's book \"The War Against the Greens\" contends that the wise use movement is not a collection of grassroots uprisings, but a set of astroturfing movements created by big business. Carl Deal, author of \"The Greenpeace Guide to Anti-Environmental Organizations\" also makes the same claim: that wise use groups give the appearance of being popular grassroots movements, but are actually front organizations for industry groups with a financial interest in the movement's agenda. Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. also described this conspiracy against the environment by wise use organizations in his 2004 book \"Crimes Against Nature.\"\n\nThese critics have largely portrayed so-called \"grassroots\" groups as being front groups and rural Westerners as serving as dupes for extractive industries and their interests. However, while corporate power played an important role in the wise use movement, the relationship between rural westerners and extractive industries was not a result of individual citizens blindly accepting corporate narratives; instead, wise use was an alliance between groups with similar goals regarding private property rights and access to public lands. Corporations also were better able to connect with rural residents because, according to James McCarthy, \"[c]orporations were in fact often more sensitive to the region's cultural politics than many environmentalists and so were better able to engage culture for instrumental purposes.\"\n\nThe term wise use was coined in 1910 by U.S. Forest Service leader Gifford Pinchot to describe his concept of sustainable harvest of natural resources.\n\nToday's wise use coalition has appropriated a nineteenth-century term. According to historian Douglas McCleery, the idea of \"conservation as wise use\" of natural resources began with conservation leader Gifford Pinchot in the late nineteenth century. The original \"wise use\" movement was a product of the Progressive Era, and included the concept of multiple use—public land can be used simultaneously for recreation, for timber, for mining, and for wildlife habitat. The multiple-use and wise use concepts advocated by Pinchot reflected the view that nature's resources should be scientifically managed so as \"to protect the basic productivity of the land and its ability to serve future generations.\"\n\nThe modern use of the term \"wise use\" to refer to opposition to the environmental movement dates to the publication of Ron Arnold's book \"Wise Use Agenda\" in 1989. The wise use movement has it roots in both the earlier \"Sagebrush Rebellion\" in the western United States during the late 1970s and to the earlier opposition to the formation of the national forests.\n\nHowever, unlike the Sagebrush Rebellion, which consisted largely of the formation of industry public relations groups by resource extraction industries and corporations such as Coors and Co, wise use included grassroots groups. Ron Arnold argued that the inclusion of citizen groups would make the movement more effective. In 1979, in \"Logging Management\" magazine, Arnold wrote: \"Citizen activist groups, allied to the forest industry, are vital to our future survival. They can speak for us in the public interest where we ourselves cannot. They are not limited by liability, contract law or ethical codes... industry must come to support citizen activist groups, providing funds, materials, transportation, and most of all, hard facts.\"\n\nJames McCarthy wrote:\nThe Wise Use movement is a broad coalition of over a thousand national, state, and local groups. Its existence by this name dates from a 1988 ‘Multiple-Use Strategy Conference’ attended by nearly 200 organizations, mainly Western-based, including natural resource industry corporations and trade associations, law firms specializing in combating environmental regulations, and recreational groups. The conference produced a legislative agenda intended to ‘destroy environmentalism’ and promote the ‘wise use’ of natural resources - an intentionally ambiguous phrase strategically appropriated from the early conservation movement.\n\n\n"}
