{"id": "226371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226371", "title": "1647 in literature", "text": "1647 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1647.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53596549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53596549", "title": "All Power to the People: Black Panthers at 50", "text": "All Power to the People: Black Panthers at 50\n\nAll Power to the People: Black Panthers at 50 is an exhibition put on by the Oakland Museum of California from October 8, 2016 to February 26, 2017. The exhibit was organized by OMCA's senior curator René De Guzman.\n\nThe exhibition celebrates the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Black Panther Party, combining objects which examine lesser known works of the Black Panther party, such as the Free Breakfast for School Children Program and, founders Huey Newton and Bobby Seale's, Ten-Point Program, with pieces of contemporary art by artists whose work inspires questions about racial inequality 50 years later.\n\n\"Power to the People\" featured work by contemporary artists Sadie Barnette, Hank Willis Thomas, Carrie Mae Weems, Mark Teemer, Trevor Paglen and David Huffman, among others.\n\n\n\nThe timely-ness of the exhibit was remarked on in several exhibition reviews. Jeff Greenwald said \"From Black Lives Matter to quarterback Colin Kaepernick's bended knee, the Black Panthers' political legacy remains alive in America's ongoing dialogue about race, justice and privilege.\"\n"}
{"id": "39902695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39902695", "title": "Architecture of Paris", "text": "Architecture of Paris\n\nThe city of Paris has notable examples of architecture of every period from the Middle Ages to the 21st century. It was the birthplace of the Gothic style, and has important monuments of the French Renaissance, the Classical revival, and flamboyant style of the reign of Napoleon III; the Belle Époque, and the Art Nouveau style. The great Paris Universal Expositions of 1889 and 1900 added Paris landmarks, including the Eiffel Tower and Grand Palais. In the 20th century, the Art Deco style of architecture first appeared in Paris, and Paris architects also influenced the postmodern architecture of the second half of the century.\n\nVery little architecture remains from the ancient town of Lutetia, founded by a Celtic tribe known as the Parisii in about the 3rd century BC. It was conquered by the Romans in 52 BC, and turned into a Gallo-Roman garrison town. It was rebuilt in the 1st century AD on the classic Roman plan; a north-south axis, or \"cardo\" (now rue Saint-Jacques); and an east-west axis, or \"decumanus\", of which traces have been found on the Île de la Cité, at rue de Lutèce. The center of Roman administration was on the island; the Roman governor's palace stood where the Palais de Justice is located today. The right bank was largely undeveloped. The city grew up the Left Bank, on the slopes of Mount Saint-Geneviève. The Roman forum was on the summit of the hill, under the present Rue Soufflot, between the boulevard Saint-Michel and rue Saint-Jacques,\n\nThe Roman town had three large baths near the forum, supplied with water by a 46-kilometer-long aqueduct. Vestiges of one bath, the Thermes de Cluny, can still be seen on Boulevard Saint-Michel. It was the largest of the three baths, one hundred meters by sixty-five meters, and was built at the end of the 2nd century or beginning of the 3rd century BC, at the height of the town's grandeur. The baths are now part of the Musée national du Moyen Âge, or National Museum of the Middle Ages. Nearby, on rue Monge, are the vestiges of the Roman amphitheater, called the Arènes de Lutèce, which was discovered and restored in the 19th century. Though the population of the town was probably no more than 5–6 thousand persons, the amphitheater measured 130 meters by 100 meters, and could seat fifteen thousand persons. Fifteen tiers of seats remain from the original thirty-five. It was built in the 1st century AD and was used for the combat of gladiators and animals, and also for theatrical performances.\n\nAnother notable piece of Gallo-Roman architecture was discovered under the choir of Notre-Dame de Paris; the Pillar of the Boatmen, a fragment of a Roman column with carvings of both Roman and Gallic gods. It was probably made at the beginning of the 1st century during the reign of the Emperor Tiberius to honor the league of the boatmen, who played an important part in the town's economy and religious and civic life. It is now on display in the Roman baths at the Museum of the Middle Ages. Other fragments of Gallo-Roman architecture are found in the crypt under the square in front of the Cathedral of Notre Dame; and in the Church of Saint-Pierre de Montmartre, where several Roman columns, probably from a temple, were re-used in the late 12th century to build a Christian church. \n\nUnlike the south of France, Paris has very few examples of Romanesque architecture; most churches and other buildings in that style were rebuilt in the Gothic style. The most remarkable example of Romanesque architecture in Paris is the church of the Abbey of Saint-Germain-des-Prés, built between 990 and 1160 during the reign of Robert the Pious. An earlier church had been destroyed by the Vikings in the 9th century. The oldest elements of the original church existing today are the tower (the belfry at the top was added in the 12th century), and the chapel of Saint Symphorien, on the south flank of the bell tower, built in the 11th century. It is considered the earliest existing place of worship in Paris. The gothic choir, with its flying buttresses, was added in the mid-12th century, it was consecrated by Pope Alexander III, in 1163. It was one of the earliest gothic style elements to appear in a Paris church.\n\nRomanesque and Gothic elements are found together in several old Paris churches. The church of Saint-Pierre de Montmartre (1147–1200) is only surviving building of the vast Abbey of Montmartre, which once covered the top of the hill; it has both ancient Roman columns and one of the first examples of a Gothic arched ceiling, in the nave near the choir. The interior of the church of Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre (1170–1220) has been extensively rebuilt, but it still has massive Romanesque columns and the exterior is a classic example of the Romano-Gothic style. The former priory of Saint-Martin-des-Champs (1060–1140) has a choir and chapels supported by \"contreforts\" and a Romanesque bell tower. It now belongs to the Musee des Arts et Metiers. \n\nIn 987 Hugues Capet became the first King of France, and established his capital in Paris, though at the time his kingdom was little bigger than the Île-de-France, or modern Paris region. The first royal residence, the Palais de la Cité, was established within the fortress at the western end of the Île de la Cité, where the Roman governors had established their residence. Capet and his successors gradually enlarged their kingdom through marriages and conquests. His son, Robert the Pious (972–1031), built the first palace, the Palais de la Cité, and royal chapel within the walls of the fortress, and his successors embellished it over the centuries; by the reign of Philippe le Bel in the 14th century, it was the most magnificent palace in Europe. The tallest structure was the Grosse Tour, or great tower, built by Louis le Gros between 1080 and 1137. It had a diameter of 11.7 meters at the base and walls three meters thick, and remained until its demolition in 1776. The ensemble of buildings (seen in the image at right as they were between 1412 and 1416) included a royal residence, a great hall for ceremonies, and four large towers along the Seine on the north side of the island, as well as a gallery of luxury shops, the first Paris shopping center. Between 1242 and 1248 King Louis IX, later known as Saint Louis, built an exquisite gothic chapel, Sainte-Chapelle, to house the relics of the Passion of Christ which he had acquired from the Emperor of Byzantium. \n\nIn 1358 a rebellion of the Parisian merchants against the royal authority, led by Étienne Marcel, caused the King, Charles V, to move his residence to a new palace, the Hôtel Saint-Pol, near the Bastille at the eastern edge of the city. The Palace was used occasionally for special ceremonies and to welcome foreign monarchs, but housed the administrative offices and courts of the Kingdom, as well as an important prison. The Great Hall was destroyed by a fire in 1618, rebuilt; another fire in 1776 destroyed the residence of the King, the tower of Mongomery. During the French Revolution, the revolutionary tribunal was housed in the building; hundreds of persons, including Queen Marie Antoinette, were tried and imprisoned there, before being taken to the guillotine. After the Revolution the Conciergerie served as a prison and courthouse. It was burned by the Paris Commune in 1871, but was rebuilt. The prison was closed in 1934, and the Conciergerie became a museum. \n\nSeveral vestiges of the medieval Palais de la Cité, extensively modified and restored, can still be seen today; the royal chapel, Sainte-Chapelle; the Hall of the Men-at-Arms, (early 14th century), the former dining hall of the palace officials and guards, located underneath the now-vanished Great Hall; and the four towers along the Seine facing the right bank. The façade was built in the 19th century. The tower on the far right, the Tour Bonbec, is the oldest, built between 1226 and 1270 during the reign of Louis IX, or Saint Louis. It is distinguished by the crenolation at the top of the tower. It originally was a story shorter than the other towers, but was raised to match their height in the renovation of the 19th century. The tower served as the primary torture chamber during the Middle Ages. The two towers in the center, the Tour de César and the Tour d'Argent, were built in the 14th century, during the reign of Philippe le Bel. The tallest tower, the Tour de l'Horloge, was constructed by Jean le Bon in 1350, and modified several times over the centuries. The first public clock in Paris, was added by Charles V in 1370. The sculptural decoration around the clock, featuring allegorical figures of The Law and Justice, was added in 1585 century by Henry III. \n\nMuch of the architecture of medieval Paris was designed to protect the city and King against attack; walls, towers, and castles. Between 1190 and 1202, King Philippe-Auguste began construction of a wall five kilometers long to protect the city on the right bank. The wall was reinforced by seventy-seven circular towers, each no more than six meters in diameter. He also began construction of a large castle, the Louvre, where the wall met the river. The Louvre was protected by a moat and a wall with ten towers. In the center was a massive circular \"donjon\" or tower, thirty meters high and fifteen meters in diameter. It was not then the residence of the King, but Philippe Auguste placed the royal archives there. Another walled complex of buildings, the Temple, the headquarters of the Knights Templar, was located on the right bank, centered around a massive tower. \n\nThe city on the right bank continued to grow outwards. The Provost of the Merchants, Étienne Marcel, began building a new city wall in 1356, which doubled the area of the city. The Louvre, now surrounded by the city, was given rich decoration and a grand new stairway, and gradually became more of residence than a fortress. Charles V, in 1364–80, moved his primary residence from the City Palace to the Hôtel Saint-Pol, a comfortable new palace in the new Le Marais quarter. To protect his new palace and the eastern flank of the city, in 1570 Charles began building the Bastille, a fortress with six cylindrical towers. At the same time, further east, in the forest of Vincennes, Charles V built an even larger castle, the Château de Vincennes, dominated by another massive keep or tower fifty-two meters high. It was completed in 1369. Beginning in 1379, close to the Château, he began constructing a replica of Sainte-Chapelle. Unlike the Sainte-Chapelle in the city, the interior of the Sainte-Chapelle of Vincennes was not divided into two levels; the interior was a single space, flooded with light. \n\nThe style of Gothic architecture was born in the rebuilding of the chevet of the Basilica of Saint-Denis, just outside Paris, finished in 1144. Twenty years later, the style was used on a much larger scale by Maurice de Sully in the construction of the Cathedral of Notre-Dame de Paris. The construction continued until the 14th century. beginning with the twin towers on the west toward the choir in the east. The style evolved as the construction continued; the opening of the rose window on the western façade were relatively narrow; the great rose windows of the central transept were much more delicate, and allowed in much more light. At the western end, the walls were supported by buttresses built directly against the walls; in the center, completed later, the walls were supported by two steps of flying buttresses. In the last century of construction, the buttresses were able to cross the same distance with a single stone arch. The towers on the west were more stately and solemn, in the classic Gothic style, while the eastern elements of the Cathedral, with its combination of rose windows, spires, buttresses and pinnacles, belonged to more elaborate and decorative style, called the Gothic rayonnant. \n\nOther Paris churches soon adapted the Gothic style; the choir of Abbey church of Saint-Germain-des-Prés was completely rebuilt in the new style, with pointed arches and flying buttresses. The church of Saint-Pierre de Montmartre was rebuilt with \"ogives\", or gothic pointed arches. The church of Saint-Germain l'Auxerois, next to the Louvre, was given a portal inspired by Notre Dame, and the Church of Saint-Séverin was given a Gothic nave with the first triforium, or first-story side gallery, in Paris. The supreme example of the new style was the upper chapel of Sainte-Chapelle, where the walls seemed to be made entirely of stained glass. \n\nThe Gothic Style went through another phase between 1400 and about 1550; the Flamboyant Gothic, which combined extremely refined forms and rich decoration. The style was used not only in churches, but also in some noble residences. Notable existing examples are the Church of Saint-Séverin (1489–95) with its famous twisting pillar; the elegant choir of the church of St-Gervais-et-St-Protais,; the Tour Saint-Jacques, the flamboyant Gothic vestige of an abby church destroyed during the Revolution; and the chapel of the residence of the Abbots of Cluny, now the Museum of the Middle Ages. and the ceiling of the Tour Saint-Jean-Sans-Peur, a vestige of the former residence of the Dukes of Burgundy, in the 2nd arrondissement.\n\nThe houses in Paris during the Middle Ages were tall and narrow; usually four or five stories. They were constructed of wooden beams on a stone foundation, with the walls covered by white plaster, to prevent fires. There was usually a shop located on the ground floor. Houses built of stone reserved for the wealthy; the oldest house in the Paris is considered to be the Maison de Nicolas Flamel, at 51 rue Montmorency in the 3rd arrondissement, built in 1407. it was not a private residence, but a kind of hostel. Two houses with exposed beams at 13-15 rue François-Miron in the 4th arrondissement, often described as Medieval, were actually built in the 16th and 17th centuries. \n\nWhile there are no ordinary houses from the Middle Ages, there are several examples of manors built for the nobility and the high clergy. The Tour Jean-sans-Peur, at 20 rue Étienne-Marcel in the 2nd arrondissement, built in 1409–11, was part of the Hôtel de Burgogne, the Paris residence of the Dukes of Burgundy. Built by Robert de Helbuterne, It contains a stairway with a magnificent flamboyant gothic ceiling. The Hôtel de Cluny residence of the abbots of the Cluny Monastery, now the Musée national du Moyen Âge, or National Museum of the Middle Ages, (1490–1500), has a typical feature of manors of the period; a stairway in a tower on the exterior of the building, in the courtyard. It also contains a chapel with a spectacular flamboyant gothic ceiling. The Hôtel de Sens was the Paris residence of the Archbishop of Sens, who had authority over the Bishops of Paris. It also featured a separate stairway tower in the courtyard. \n\nThe Italian Wars conducted by Charles VIII and Louis XII, at the end of the 15th and early 16th century were not very successful from a military point of view, had a direct and beneficial effect on the architecture of Paris. The two Kings returned to France with ideas for magnificent public architecture in the new Italian Renaissance style, and brought Italian architects to build them. A new manual of classical Roman architecture by the Italian Serlio also had a major effect on the new look of French buildings. A distinctly French Renaissance style, lavishly using cut stone and lavish ornamental sculpture, developed under Henry II after 1539, \n\nThe first structure in Paris in the new style was the old Pont Notre-Dame (1507–12), designed by the Italian architect Fra Giocondo. It was lined with 68 artfully designed houses, the first example of Renaissance urbanism. King Francis I commissioned the next project; a new Hôtel de Ville, or city hall, for the city. It was designed by another Italian, Domenico da Cortona, and begun in 1532 but not finished until 1628. The building was burned in 1871 by the Paris Commune, but the central portion was faithfully reconstructed in 1882. A monumental fountain in the Italian style, the Fontaine des Innocents, was built in 1549 as a tribune for the welcome of the new King, Henry Ii, to the city on June 16, 1549. It was designed by Pierre Lescot with sculpture by Jean Goujon, and is the oldest existing fountain in Paris.\n\nThe first Renaissance Palace built in Paris was the Château de Madrid; it was a large hunting lodge designed by Philibert Delorme and erected between 1528 and 1552 west of the city in what is now the Bois de Boulogne. It was combination of both French and Italian Renaissance styles, with a high French-style roof and Italian loggias. It was demolished beginning in 1787, but a fragment can still be senen today in the Trocadero Gardens in the 16th arrondissement.\n\nUnder Henry II and his successors, the Louvre was gradually transformed from a medieval fortress into a Renaissance palace. The architect Pierre Lescot and sculptor Jean Gouchon made the Lescot wing of the Louvre, a masterpiece of combined French and Italian Renaissance art and architecture, on the southeast side of the Cour Carrée of the Louvre (1546–53). Inside the Louvre, they made the staircase of Henry II (1546–53) and the Salle des Cariatides (1550). Both French and Italian elements were combined; the antique orders and paired columns of the Italian renaissance were combined with sculpted medallions and high roofs broken by windows (later known as the Mansard roof), which were characteristic of the French style.\n\nAfter the accidental death of Henry II of France in 1559, his widow Catherine de' Medici (1519–1589) planned a new palace. She sold the medieval Hôtel des Tournelles, where her husband had died, and began building the Tuileries Palace in using architect Philibert de l'Orme. During the reign of Henry IV (1589–1610), the building was enlarged to the south, so it joined the long riverside gallery, the Grande Galerie, which ran all the way to the older Louvre Palace in the east. \n\nMost of the churches built in Paris in the 16th century are in the traditional flamboyant gothic style, though some have features borrowed from the Italian Renaissance. The most important Paris church of the Renaissance is Saint-Eustache, 105 meters long, 44 meters wide and 35 meters high, which in size and grandeur, approaches that of the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. King Francis I wanted a monument as the centerpiece for the neighborhood of Les Halles, where the main city market was located. The church was designed by the King's favorite architect, Domenico da Cortona, The project was begun in 1519, and construction began in 1532. The pillars were inspired by the monastery church of Cluny, and the soaring interior is taken from the gothic cathedrals of the 13th century, but Cortona added details and ornament taken from the Italian Renaissance. It was not completed until 1640.\n\nThe other churches of the period follow the more traditional flamboyant gothic models. They include Saint-Merri (1520–52), with a plan similar to Notre-Dame; Saint-Germain l'Auxerrois, which features impressive flying buttresses; and the Église Saint-Medard. whose choir was built in beginning in 1550; St-Gervais-et-St-Protais features a soaring gothic vault in the apse, but also had a transept a more sober classical style inspired by the Renaissance. (The baroque façade was added in the 17th century).in the Saint-Étienne-du-Mont (1510–86), near the modern Pantheon on Mont Sainte-Genevieve, has the only remaining Renaissance rood screen (1530–35), a magnificent bridge across the center of the church. The flamboyant gothic church of Saint-Nicholas-des-Champs (1559) has a striking Renaissance feature; a portal on right side inspired by designs of Philibert Delorme for the former royal residence, the Palace of Tournelles in the Marais.\n\nThe ordinary Paris house of the Renaissance was little changed from the medieval house; they were four to five stories high, narrow, built on a stone foundation of wood covered with plaster. They usually had a \"pigeon\", or gabled roof. The two houses at 13-15 rue François Miron (actually built in the 16th or 17th century, but often described as medieval houses) are good examples of the Renaissance house.\n\nOnce the French court returned to Paris from the Loire Valley, the nobility and wealthy merchants began to build \"hôtels particuliers\", or large private residences, mostly in the Marais. They were built of stone and richly decorated with sculpture. They were usually built around a courtyard, and separated from the street. The residence was a located between the courtyard and garden. The façade facing the courtyard had the most sculptural decoration; the façade facing the garden was usually rough stone. The Hôtel Carnavalet at 23 rue de Sévigné, (1547–49), designed by Pierre Lescot, and decorated with sculpture by Jean Goujon, is the best example of a Renaissance h As the century advanced, the exterior stairways disappeared and the façades became more classical and regular. A good example of the later style is the Hôtel d'Angoulême Lamoignon, at 24 rue Pavée in the 3rd arrondissement (1585–89), designed by Thibaut Métezeau.\n\nThe architectural style of the French Renaissance continued to dominate in Paris through the Regency of Marie de' Medici. The end of the wars of religion allowed the continuation of several building projects, such as the expansion of the Louvre, begun in the 16th century but abandoned because of the war. With the arrival in power Louis XIII and the ministers Richelleu and Mazarin, a new architectural style, the baroque, imported from Italy, began to appear in Paris. Its purpose, like Baroque music and painting, was to awe Parisians with its majesty and ornament, in opposition to the austere style of the Protestant Reformation. The new style in Paris was characterized by opulence, irregularity, and an abundance of decoration. The straight geometric lines of the buildings were covered with curved or triangular \"frontons\", niches with statues or \"cariatides\", \"cartouches\", garlands of drapery, and cascades of fruit carved from stone.\n\nLouis XIV distrusted the unruly Parisians, and spent as little time as possible in Paris, finally moving his Court to Versailles in, but at the same time he wanted to transform Paris into \"The New Rome\", a city worthy of the Sun King. Over the course of his long reign, from 1643 until 1715, the architectural style in Paris gradually changed from the exuberance of the baroque to a more solemn and formal classicism, the embodiment in stone of the King's vision of Paris as \"the new Rome.\" The new Academy of Architecture, founded in 1671, imposed an official style, as the Academies of art and literature had earlier done. The style was modified again beginning in about 1690, as the government began to run short of money; new projects were less grandiose.\n\nIn the 17th century, the first large-scale urban planning of Paris was initiated by royal ordinance, largely based on the model of Italian cities, including the construction of the first residential squares. The first two squares, Place Royale (now Place des Vosges, 1605–12) and Place Dauphine, the latter in place of the old royal garden on the Île-de-la-Cité, were both begun by Henry IV, who also completed the first Paris bridge without houses, the Pont Neuf (1599–1604). The Place Royale had nine large residences on each of its four sides, with identical façades. The Place Dauphine had forty houses on its three sides (of which just two remain today). Louis XIV continued the style with Place des Victoires (1684–97) and Place Vendôme (1699–1702). Both of these squares were (1) designed by Jules Hardouin-Mansart, (2) had statues of the King in the center, and (3) were financed largely by the sale of the houses around the squares. The residences around the latter two squares had identical classical façades and were built of stone, following Hardouin-Mansart's \"Grand Style\" used in his monumental buildings. The residential squares all had pedestrian arcades on the ground floors, and what became known as a \"mansart\" window breaking the line of the high roof. They set a model for European squares in the 18th century.\n\nUrban planning was another important legacy of the 17th century. In 1667 formal height limits were imposed on Paris buildings; 48 \"pieds\" () for wooden buildings and 50 to 60 \"pieds\" () for buildings of stone, following earlier rules set in place in 1607. To prevent fires, the traditional gabled roof was banned. Beginning in 1669, under the new regulations, large blocks of houses of uniform height and uniform façades were built along several Paris streets on the right bank, notably rue de la Ferronnerie (1st arr.), rue Saint-Honoré (1st arr.), rue du Mail (2nd arr.), and rue Saint-Louis-en-Île on the Île Saint-Louis. They usually were built of stone and composed of an arched arcade on the ground floor with two to four stories above, the windows separated by decorative columns, and a high roof broken by rows of windows. This was the birth of the iconic Paris street architecture that dominated for the next two centuries. \n\nAnother element of the new architecture of Paris was the bridge. The Pont Neuf (1599–1604) and Pont Royal (1685–89), by engineer François Romain and architect Jules Hardouin-Mansart, were built without the rows of houses that occupied earlier bridges, and were designed to match the grand style of the architecture around them.\n\nAfter the assassination of Henry IV in 1610, his widow, Marie de' Medici, became the regent for the young Louis XIII and between 1615 and 1631 she built a residence for herself, the Luxembourg Palace, on the left bank. It was inspired by the palaces of her native Florence, but also by the innovations of the French Renaissance. The architect was Salomon de Brosse, followed by Marin de la Vallée and Jacques Lemercier. In the gardens, she built a magnificent fountain, the Medici Fountain, also on the Italian model.\n\nThe construction of the Louvre was one of the major Paris architectural projects of the 17th century, and the palace architecture clearly showed the transition from the French Renaissance to the classical style of Louis XIV. Jacques Lemercier had built the Pavillon de l'Orloge in 1624–39 in an ornate baroque style. Between 1667 and 1678 Louis Le Vau, Charles Le Brun, François d'Orbay and Claude Perrault rebuilt the east exterior façade of the courtyard with a long colonnade. A competition was held in 1670 for the south façade, which included a proposal from the Italian architect Bernini. Louis XIV rejected Bernini's Italianate plan in favor of a classical design by Perrault, which had a flat roof concealed by a balustrade and a series of massive columns and triangular pediments designed to convey elegance and power. Louis Le Vau and Claude Perrault rebuilt the interior façade of the \"cour Carée\" of the Louvre in a more classical version than that of the facing Renaissance façade. The Louvre was gradually transformed from a Renaissance and baroque palace to the classical \"grand style\" of Louis XIV.\n\nChurch architecture in the 17th century was slow to change. Interiors of new parish churches, such as Saint-Sulpice, Saint-Louis-en-l'Île and Saint-Roch largely followed the traditional gothic floor-plan of Notre-Dame, though they did add façades and certain other decorative features from the Italian Baroque, and follow the advice of the Council of Trent to integrate themselves into the city's architecture, and they were aligned with the street. In 1675, an official survey on the state of church architecture in Paris made by architects Daniel Gittard and Libéral Bruant recommended that certain churches \"so-called Gothic, without any good order, beauty or harmony\" should be rebuilt \"in the new style of our beautiful modern architecture\", meaning the style imported from Italy, with certain French adaptations.\n\nThe architect Salomon de Brosse (1571–1626) introduced a new style of façade, based on the traditional orders of architecture (Doric, Ionic and Corinthian), placed one above the other. He first used this style in the façade of the Church of St-Gervais-et-St-Protais (1616–20). The style of the three superimposed orders appeared again in the Eglise Saint-Paul-Saint-Louis, the new Jesuit church in Paris, designed by the Jesuit architects Étienne Martellange and François Derand. Saint-Roch (1653–90), designed by Jacques Lemercier, had a Gothic plan but colorful Italian-style decoration. \n\nThe most dramatic new feature of Paris religious architecture in the 17th century was the dome, which was first imported from Italy in about 1630, and began to change the Paris skyline, which hitherto had been entirely dominated by church spires and bell towers. The domed churches began as a weapon of the Counter-Reformation against the architectural austerity of the Protestants. The prototype for the Paris domes was the Church of the Jesu, the Jesuit church in Rome, built in 1568–84 by Giacomo della Porta. A very modest dome was created in Paris between 1608 and 1619 in the chapel of the Louanges on rue Bonaparte. (Today it is part of the structure of the École des Beaux-Arts). The first large dome was on the church of Saint-Joseph des Carmes, which was finished in 1630. Modifications in the traditional religious services, strongly supported by the growing monastic orders in Paris, led to modification in church architecture, with more emphasis on the section in the center of the church, beneath the dome. The circle of clear glass windows of the lower part of the dome filled the church center with light.\n\nThe most eloquent early architect of domes was the architect François Mansart. His first dome was at the chapel of the Minimes (later destroyed), then at the chapel of the Church of the Convent of the Visitation Saint-Marie at 17 rue Saint-Antoine (4th arr.), built between 1632 and 1634. Now the Temple du Marais, It is the oldest surviving dome in the city. Another appeared on the Eglise-Saint-Joseph in the convent of the Carmes-dechaussés at 70 rue de Vaugirard (6th arr.) between 1628 and 1630. Another dome soon was built in the Marais; the dome of the Church of Saint-Paul-Saint-Louis at 899-101 rue Saint-Antoine (1627–41), by Étienne Martellange and François Derand. It was followed by church of the Abbey of Val-de-Grâce (5th arr.) (1624–69), by Mansart and Pierre Le Muet; then by a dome on the Chapel of Saint-Ursule at the College of the Sorbonne (1632–34), by Jacques Lemercier; and the College des Quatres-Nations (now the Institute of France (1662–68), by Louis LeVau and François d'Orbay; and the church of Notre-Dame de l'Assomption de Paris on rue Saint-Honoré (1st arr.) (1670–76) by Charles Errard. The most majestic dome was that of the chapel of Les Invalides, by Jules Hardouin-Mansart, built between 1677 and 1706. The last dome of the period was for a Protestant church, the Temple de Pentemont on rue de Grenelle (7th arr.) (about 1700) by Charles de La Fosse. \n\nAn elegant new form of domestic architecture, the rustic style, appeared in Paris in the wealthy Le Marais at the end of the 16th and beginning of the 17th century. This style of architecture was usually used for ornate apartments in wealthy areas, and for Hôtel Particuliers. It was sometimes called the \"style of three crayons\" because it used three colors; black slate tiles, red brick, and white stone. This architecture was expensive, having a variety of different materials, and ornate stone work. This style inspired the unique Palais de Versailles. The earliest existing examples are the house known as the \"Maison de Jacques Cœur\"at 40 rue des Archives (4th arr.) from the late 16th century; the Hôtel Scipion Sardini at 13 rue Scipion in the (5th arr,) from 1532, and the Abbot's residence at the Abbey of Saint-Germain-des-Prés at 3-5 rue de l'Abbaye, (6th arr.), from 1586. The most famous examples around found around the Place des Vosges, built between 1605 and 1612. Other good examples are the Hospital of Saint-Louis on rue Buchat (10th arr.) from 1607 to 1611; the two houses at 1-6 Place Dauphine on the Île de la Cité, from 1607 to 1612; and the Hôtel d'Alméras at 30 rue des Francs-Bourgeois (4th arr.), from 1612.\n\nThe palatial new residences built by the nobility and the wealthy in the Marais featured two new and original specialized rooms; the dining room and the \"salon\". The new residences typically were separated from the street by a wall and gatehouse. There was a large court of honor inside the gates, with galleries on either side, used for receptions, and for services and the stables. The house itself opened both onto the courtyard and onto a separate garden. One good example in its original form, between the Place des Vosges and rue Saint-Antoine, is the Hôtel de Sully, (1624–29), built by Jean Androuet du Cerceau. \n\nAfter 1650 the architect François Mansart introduced a more classical and sober style to the hôtel particular. The Hôtel de Guénégaud des Brosses at 60 rue des Archives (3rd arrondissement) from 1653 had a greatly simplified and severe façade. Beginning in the 1660s Mansart remade the façades of the Hôtel Carnavalet, preserving some of the Renaissance decoration and a 16th portal but integrating them into a more classical composition, with columns, pediments and stone \"bossages\".\n\nDuring the first half of the 18th century, the grand style of Louis XIV, defined by the Royal Academy of Architecture and evoking power and grandeur, dominated Paris architecture. In 1722, Louis XV returned the court to Versailles, and visited the city only on special occasions. While he rarely came into Paris, he did make important additions to the city's landmarks. His first major building was the \"École Militaire\", a new military school, on the Left Bank. It was built between 1739 and 1745 by Ange-Jacques Gabriel. Gabriel borrowed the design of the Pavillon d'Horloge of the Louvre by Lemercier for the central pavilion, a façade influenced by Mansart, and Italian touches from Palladio and Giovanni Battista Piranesi. \n\nIn the second part of the century, a more purely neoclassical style, based directly on Greek and Roman models, began to appear. It was strongly influenced by a visit to Rome in 1750 by the architect Jacques-Germain Soufflot and the future Marquis de Marigny, the director of buildings for King Louis XV. They and other architects who made the obligatory trip to Italy brought back classical ideas and drawings which defined Paris architecture until the 1830s.\nSoufflot's Roman trip led to the design of the new church of Saint Genevieve, now the Panthéon, the model of the neoclassical style, constructed on the summit of Mont Geneviéve between 1764 and 1790. It was not completed until the French Revolution, at which time it became a mausoleum for Revolutionary heroes. Other royal commissions in the new style included the royal mint, the Hotel des Monnaies on the Quai de Conti (6th arr.), with a 117-meter-long façade along the Seine, dominated by its massive central \"Avant-corps\" and vestibule decorated with doric columns and caisson ceilings (1767–75).\n\nChurches in the first half of the 18th century, such as the church of Saint-Roche at 196 rue Saint-Honoré (1738–39) by Robert de Cotte and Jules-Robert de Cotte, stayed with the late baroque style of superimposed orders. Later churches ventured into neoclassicism, at least on the exterior. The most prominent example of a neoclassical church was the Church of Saint Genevieve (1764–90), the future Pantheon. The church of Saint-Philippe-du-Roule at 153 rue du Faubourg-Saint-Honoré (8th arr.) (1764–84) by Jean-François Chalgrin had an exterior inspired by the early Paleo-Christian church, though the nave in the interior was more traditional. The Church of Saint-Sulpice in the 6th arrondissement, by Jean-Nicolas Servandont, then by Oudot de Maclaurin and Jean-François Chalgrin was given a classical façade and two bell towers (1732–80). Funding was exhausted before the second tower was finished, leaving the two towers different in style. The church of Saint-Eustache on rue-du-Jour (1st arr.) an example of both Gothic and Renaissance architecture, had its west faced redone by Jean Hardouin-Mansart and then Pierre-Louis Moreau-Desproux, into a neoclassical façade with two orders (1754–78), and was intended to have two towers, but only one was finished. \n\nA large church with a dome, similar to Les Invalides, had been planned for the Place de la Madeleine beginning in the 1760s. the King laid the cornerstone on April 3, 1763, but work halted in 1764. The architect, Pierre Contant d'Ivry, died in 1777, and was replaced by his pupil Guillaume-Martin Couture, who decided instead to base his church on the Roman Pantheon; a classic colonnade topped by a massive dome. At the start of the Revolution of 1789, however, only the foundations and the grand portico had been finished.\n\nThe Regency and then the rule of Louis XV saw a gradual evolution of the style of the \"hôtel particular\", or mansion. The ornate wrought-iron balcony appeared on residences, along with other ornamental details called rocaille or rococo, often borrowed from Italy. The style first appeared on houses in the Marais, then in the neighborhoods of Saint-Honoré and Saint-Germain, where larger building lots were available. These became the most fashionable neighborhoods by the end of the 18th century. The new hôtels were often ornamented with curve façades, rotundas and lateral pavilions, and had their façades decorated with sculpted \"mascarons\" fruit, cascades of trophies and other sculptural decoration. The interiors were richly decorated with carved wood panels. The houses usually looked out onto courtyards on the front and gardens to the rear. The Hôtel de Chenizot, 51 rue Saint-Louis-en-Ile, by Pierre-Vigné de Vigny (about 1720), was a good example of the new style; it was a 17th-century house transformed by a new rocaille façade. \n\nIn 1748, the Academy of Arts commissioned a monumental statue of the king on horseback by the sculptor Bouchardon, and the Academy of Architecture was assigned to create a square, to be called \"Place Louis XV\", where it could be erected. The site selected was the marshy open space between the Seine, the moat and bridge to the Tuileries garden, and the Champs-Élysées, which led to the \"Étoile\", convergence of hunting trails on the western edge of the city (now \"Place Charles de Gaulle-Étoile\"). The winning plans for the square and buildings next to it were drawn by the architect Ange-Jacques Gabriel. Gabriel designed two large \"hôtels\" with a street between them, \"Rue Royale\", designed to give a clear view of the statue in the center of the square. The façades of the two hotels, with long colonnades and classical pediments, were inspired by Perrault's neoclassical façade of the Louvre. Construction began in 1754, and the statue was put in place and dedicated on 23 February 1763. The two large \"hôtels\" were still unfinished, but the \"façades\" were finished in 1765–66. The Place was the theater for some of the most dramatic events of the French Revolution, including the executions of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette. \n\nThe later part of the 18th century saw the development of new residential blocks, particularly on the left bank at Odéon and Saint-Germain, and on the right bank in the first and second arrondissements. The most fashionable neighborhoods moved from the Marais toward the west. with large residential buildings constructed in a simplified and harmonious neoclassical style. The ground floors were often occupied by arcades to give pedestrians shelter from the rain and the traffic in the streets. Strict new building regulations were put into place in 1783 and 1784, which regulated the height of new buildings in relation to the width of the street, regulating the line of the cornice, the number of stories and the slope of the roofs. Under a 1784 decree of the Parlement of Paris, the height of most new buildings was limited to 54 \"pieds\" or 17.54 meters, with the height of the attic depending upon the width of the building.\n\nParis in the 18th century had many beautiful buildings, but it was not a beautiful city. The philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau described his disappointment when he first arrived in Paris in 1731: \nI expected a city as beautiful as it was grand, of an imposing appearance, where you saw only superb streets, and palaces of marble and gold. Instead, when I entered by the Faubourg Saint-Marceau, I saw only narrow, dirty and foul-smelling streets, and villainous black houses, with an air of unhealthiness; beggars, poverty; wagons-drivers, menders of old garments; and vendors of tea and old hats.\"\n\nIn 1749, in \"Embellissements de Paris\", Voltaire wrote: \"We blush with shame to see the public markets, set up in narrow streets, displaying their filth, spreading infection, and causing continual disorders… Immense neighbourhoods need public places. The center of the city is dark, cramped, hideous, something from the time of the most shameful barbarism.\"\n\nThe uniform neoclassical style all around the city was not welcomed by everyone. Just before the Revolution the journalist Louis-Sébastien Mercier wrote: \"How monotonous is the genius of our architects! How they live on copies, on eternal repetition! They don't know how to make the smallest building without columns… They all more or less resemble temples.\"\n\nEven functional buildings were built in the neoclassical style; the grain market (now the Chamber of Commerce) was given a neoclassical dome (1763–69) by Nicolas Le Camus de Mézières. Between 1785 and 1787, the royal government built a new wall around the edges of the city (The Wall of the Ferme générale) to prevent smuggling of goods into the city. it had fifty-five barriers, many of them in the form of Doric temples, designed by Claude Nicolas Ledoux. A few still exist, notably at Parc Monceau. The wall was highly unpopular and was an important factor in turning opinion against Louis XVI, and provoking the French Revolution.\n\nIn 1774 Louis XV had constructed a monumental fountain, the Fontaine des Quatre-Saisons, richly decorated with classical sculpture by Bouchardon glorifying the King, at 57–59 rue de la Grenelle. While the fountain was huge, and dominated the narrow street, it originally had only two small spouts, from which residents of the neighborhood could fill their water containers. It was criticized by Voltaire in a letter to the Count de Caylus in 1739, as the fountain was still under construction:\n\nDuring the French Revolution, the churches of Paris were closed and nationalized, and many were badly damaged. Most destruction came not from the Revolutionaries, but from the new owners who purchased the buildings, and sometimes destroyed them for the building materials they contained. The Abbey of Saint-Pierre de Montmartre was destroyed, and its church left in ruins. Parts of the Abbey of Saint-Germain-des-Prés were turned into a gunpowder factory; an explosion destroyed many of the buildings outside the church. The Church of Saint-Genevieve was turned into a mausoleum for revolutionary heroes. The sculpture on the façade of the Cathedral of Notre-Dame was smashed or removed, and the spire torn down. Many of the abandoned religious buildings, particularly in outer neighborhoods of the city, were turned into factories and workshops. Much of the architecture of the Revolution was theatrical and temporary, such as the extraordinary stage sets created for the Festival of the Supreme Being on the Champs-de-Mars in 1794. However, work continued on some pre-revolutionary projects. The rue des Colonnes in the second arrondissement, designed by Nicolas-Jacques-Antoine Vestier (1793–95), had a colonnade of simple Doric columns, characteristic of the Revolutionary period. \n\nIn 1806, in imitation of Ancient Rome, Napoléon ordered the construction of a series of monuments dedicated to the military glory of France. The first and largest was the Arc de Triomphe, built at the edge of the city at the Barrière d'Étoile, and not finished before July 1836. He ordered the building of the smaller Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel (1806–08), copied from the arch of Arch of Septimius Severus and Constantine in Rome, next to the Tuileries Palace. It was crowned with a team of bronze horses he took from the façade of St Mark's Basilica in Venice. His soldiers celebrated his victories with grand parades around the Carrousel. He also commissioned the building of the Vendôme Column (1806–10), copied from the Trajan's Column in Rome, made of the iron of cannon captured from the Russians and Austrians in 1805. At the end of the Rue de la Concorde (given again its former name of Rue Roya on 27 April 1814), he took the foundations of an unfinished church, the Église de la Madeleine, which had been started in 1763, and transformed it into the Temple de la Gloire, a military shrine to display the statues of France’s most famous generals.\n\nMany of Napoleon's contributions to Paris architecture were badly needed improvements to the city's infrastructure; He started a new canal to bring drinking water to the city, rebuilt the city sewers, and began construction of the Rue de Rivoli, to permit the easier circulation of traffic between the east and west of the city. He also began construction of the Palais de la Bourse (1808–26), the Paris stock market, with its grand colonnade. it was not finished until 1826. In 1806 He began to build a new façade for the Palais Bourbon, the modern National Assembly, to match the colonnade of the Temple of Military Glory (now the Madeleine), directly facing it across the Place de La Concorde. \n\nParisians had a taste for the Egyptian style long before Napoleon; pyramids, obelisks and sphinxes occurred frequently in Paris decoration, such as the decorative sphinxes decorating the balustrade of the Hotel Sale (now the Musée Picasso), (1654–59), and small pyramids decorating the Anglo-Chinese gardens of the Château de Bagatelle and Parc Monceau in the (18th century). However, Napoleon's Egyptian campaign gave the style a new prestige, and for the first time it was based on drawings and actual models carried back the scholars who traveled with Napoleon's soldiers to Egypt; the style soon appeared in public fountains and residential architecture, including the Fontaine du Fellah on rue de Sèvres by François-Jean Bralle (1807) and the Fontaine du Palmier by Bralle and Louis Simon Boizot (1808). The sphinxes around this fountain were Second-Empire additions in 1856–58 by the city architect of Napoleon III, Gabriel Davioud. The grandest Egyptian element added to Paris was the Luxor Obelisk from the Temple of Thebes, offered as a gift by the Viceroy of Egypt to Louis-Philippe, and erected on the Place de la Concorde in 1836. Examples continued to appear in the 20th century, from the Luxor movie palace on boulevard de Magenta in the 10th arrondissement (1921) to the Louvre pyramid by I. M. Pei (1988). \n\nIron architecture made its Paris debut under Napoleon, with the construction of the Pont des Arts by Louis-Alexandre de Cessart and Jacques Lacroix-Dillon (1801–03). This was followed by a metal frame for the cupola of the Halle aux blé, or grain market (now the Paris Bourse de Commerce, or Chamber of Commerce). Designed by the architect François-Joseph Bélanger and the engineer François Brunet (1811). It replaced the wooden-framed dome built by Nicolas Le Camus de Mézières in 1767, which burned in 1802. It was the first iron frame used in a Paris building. \n\nThe royal government restored the symbols of the old regime, but continued the construction of most of the monuments and urban projects begun by Napoleon. All of the public buildings and churches of the Restoration were built in a relentlessly neoclassical style. Work resumed, slowly, on the unfinished Arc de Triomphe, begun by Napoleon. At the end of the reign of Louis XVIII, the government decided to transform it from a monument to the victories of Napoleon into a monument celebrating the victory of the Duke of Angôuleme over the Spanish revolutionaries who had overthrown their Bourbon king. A new inscription was planned: \"To the Army of the Pyrenees\" but the inscription had not been carved and the work was still not finished when the regime was toppled in 1830. \n\nThe Canal Saint-Martin was finished in 1822, and the building of the Bourse de Paris, or stock market, designed and begun by Alexandre-Théodore Brongniart from 1808 to 1813, was modified and completed by Éloi Labarre in 1826. New storehouses for grain near the Arsenal, new slaughterhouses, and new markets were finished. Three new suspension bridges were built over the Seine; the Pont d'Archeveché, the Pont des Invalides and footbridge of the Grève. All three were rebuilt later in the century.\n\nThe church of La Madeleine, begun under Louis XVI, had been turned by Napoleon into the Temple of Glory (1807). It was now turned back to its original purpose, as the Royal church of La Madeleine. To commemorate the memory of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette to expiate the crime of their execution, King Louis XVIII built the Chapelle expiatoire designed by Pierre-François-Léonard Fontaine in a neoclassical style similar to the Paris Pantheon.on the site of the small cemetery of the Madeleine, where their remains (now in the Basilica of Saint-Denis) had been hastily buried following their execution. It was completed and dedicated in 1826.\n\nSeveral new churches were begun during the Restoration to replace those destroyed during the Revolution. A battle took place between architects who wanted a neogothic style, modeled after Notre-Dame, or the neoclassical style, modeled after the basilicas of ancient Rome. The battle was won by a majority of neoclassicists on the Commission of Public Buildings, who dominated until 1850. Jean Chalgrin had designed Saint-Philippe de Role before the Revolution in a neoclassical style; it was completed (1823–30) by Étienne-Hippolyte Godde. Godde also completed Chalgrin's project for Saint-Pierre-du-Gros-Caillou {1822–29), and built the neoclassic basilicas of Notre-Dame-du-Bonne Nouvelle ((1823–30) and Saint-Denys-du-Saint-Sacrament (1826–35). Other notable neoclassical architects of the Restoration included Louis-Hippolyte Lebas, who built Notre-Dame-de-Lorette (1823–36); (1823–30); and Jacques Ignace Hittorff, who built the church of Church of Saint-Vincent-de-Paul (1824–44). Hittorff went on to along a brilliant career in the reigns of Louis Philippe and Napoleon III, designing the new plan of the Place de la Concorde and constructing the Gare du Nord railway station (1861–66). \n\nA new form of commercial architecture had appeared at the end of the 18th century; the passage, or shopping gallery, a row of shops along a narrow street covered by a glass roof. They were made possible by improved technologies of glass and cast iron, and were popular since few Paris streets had sidewalks and pedestrians had to compete with wagons, carts, animals and crowds of people. The first indoor shopping gallery in Paris had opened at the Palais-Royal in 1786; rows of shops, along with cafes and the first restaurants, were located under the arcade around the garden. It was followed by the passage Feydau in 1790–91, the passage du Caire in 1799, and the Passage des Panoramas in 1800. In 1834 the architect Pierre-François-Léonard Fontaine carried the idea a step further, covering an entire courtyard of the Palais-Royal, the Galerie d'Orleans, with a glass skylight. The gallery remained covered until 1935. It was the ancestor of the glass skylights of the Paris department stores of the later 19th century. \n\nDuring the Restoration, and particularly after the coronation of King Charles X in 1824. New residential neighborhoods were built on the Right Bank, as the city grew to the north and west. Between 1824 and 1826, a time of economic prosperity, the quarters of Saint-Vincent-de-Paul, Europe, Beaugrenelle and Passy were all laid out and construction began. The width of lots grew larger; from six to eight meters wide for a single house to between twelve and twenty meters for a residential building. The typical new residential building was four to five stories high, with an attic roof sloping forty-five degrees, broken by five to seven windows. The decoration was largely adapted from that of the Rue de Rivoli; horizontal rather than vertical orders, and simpler decoration. The windows were larger and occupied a larger portion of the façades. Decoration was provided by ornamental iron shutters and then wrought-iron balconies. Variations of this model were the standard on Paris boulevards until the Second Empire. \n\nThe hôtel particular, or large private house of the Restoration, usually was built in a neoclassical style, based on Greek architecture or the style of Palladio, particularly in the new residential quarters of Nouvelle Athenes and the Square d'Orleans on Rue Taibout (9th arrondissement), a private residential square (1829–35) in the English neoclassical style designed by Edward Cresy. Residents of the square included George Sand and Frédéric Chopin. Some of the houses in the new quarters in the 8th arrondissement, particularly the quarter of François I, begun in 1822, were made in a more picturesque style, a combination of the Renaissance and classical style, called the \"Troubadour\" style. This marked the beginning of the movement away from uniform neoclassicism toward eclectic residential architecture.\n\nThe architectural style of public buildings under the Restoration and Louis-Philippe was determined by the \"Academie des Beaux-Arts\", or Academy of Fine Arts, whose Perpetual Secretary from 1816 to 1839 was Quatremère de Quincy, a confirmed neoclassicist. The architectural style of public buildings and monuments was intended to associate Paris with the virtues and glories of ancient Greece and Rome, as it had been under Louis XIV, Napoleon and the Restoration. \n\nThe first great architectural project of the reign of Louis-Philippe was the remaking of the Place de la Concorde into its modern form. The moats of the Tuileries were filled, two large fountains, one representing the maritime commerce and industry of France, the other the river commerce and great rivers of France, designed by Jacques Ignace Hittorff, were put in place, along with monumental sculptures representing the major cities of France. On 25 October 1836, a new centerpiece was put in place; a stone obelisk from Luxor, weighing two hundred fifty tons, brought on a specially built ship from Egypt, was slowly hoisted into place in the presence of Louis-Philippe and a huge crowd. In the same year, the \"Arc de Triomphe\", begun in 1804 by Napoleon, was finally completed and dedicated. Following the return to Paris of the ashes of Napoleon from Saint Helena in 1840, they were placed with great ceremony in a tomb designed by Louis Visconti beneath the church of Les Invalides. Another Paris landmark, the column on the Place de la Bastille, was inaugurated on 28 July 1840, on the anniversary of the July Revolution, and dedicated to those killed during the uprising.\n\nSeveral older monuments were put to new purposes: the Élysée Palace was purchased by the French state and became an official residence, and under late governments the residence of the Presidents of the French Republic. The Basilica of Sainte-Geneviève, originally built as a church, then, during the Revolution, made into a mausoleum for great Frenchmen, then a church again during the Restoration, once again became the Panthéon, holding the tombs of great Frenchmen.\n\nThe reign of Louis-Philippe saw the beginning of a movement to preserve and restore some of the earliest landmarks of Paris, inspired in large part by Victor Hugo's hugely successful novel \"The Hunchback of Notre-Dame\" (\"Notre-Dame de Paris\"), published in 1831. The leading figure of the restoration movement was Prosper Mérimée, named by Louis-Philippe as the inspector General of Historic Monuments. The Commission of Public Monument was created in 1837, and in 1842, Mérimée began compiling the first official list of classified historical monuments, now known as the Base Mérimée.\n\nThe first structure to be restored was the nave of the church of Saint-Germain-des-Prés, the oldest in the city. Work also began in 1843 on the cathedral of Notre Dame, which had been badly damaged during the Revolution, and stripped of the statues on its façade. Much of the work was directed by the architect and historian Viollet-le-Duc who, sometimes, as he admitted, was guided by his own scholarship of the \"spirit\" of medieval architecture, rather strict historical accuracy. The other major restorations projects were Sainte-Chapelle and the Hôtel de Ville, dating to the 17th century; the old buildings which pressed up against the back of the Hôtel de Ville were cleared away; two new wings were added, the interiors were lavishly redecorated, and the ceilings and walls of the large ceremonial salons were painted with murals by Eugène Delacroix. Unfortunately, all the interiors were burned in 1871 by the Paris Commune.\n\nAt the same time, a small revolution was taking place at the École des Beaux-Arts, led by four young architects; Joseph-Louis Duc, Félix Duban, Henri Labrouste and Léon Vaudoyer, who had first studied Roman and Greek architecture at the Villa Medici in Rome, then in the 1820s began the systematic study of other historic architectural styles; including French architecture of the Middle Ages and Renaissance. They instituted teaching about a variety of architectural styles at the École des Beaux-Arts, and installed fragments of Renaissance and Medieval buildings in the courtyard of the school so students could draw and copy them. Each of them also designed new non-classical buildings in Paris inspired by a variety of different historic styles; Labrouste built the Sainte-Geneviève Library (1844–50); Duc designed the new Palais de Justice and Court of Cassation on the Île-de-la-Cité (1852–68); and Vaudroyer designed the Conservatoire national des arts et métiers (1838–67), and Duban designed the new buildings of the École des Beaux-Arts. Together, these buildings, drawing upon Renaissance, Gothic and romanesque and other non-classical styles, broke the monopoly of neoclassical architecture in Paris. \n\nThe first train stations in Paris were called \"embarcadéres\" (a term used for water traffic), and their location was a source of great contention, as each railroad line was owned by a different company, and each went in a different direction. The first \"embarcadére\" was built by the Péreire brothers for the line Paris-Saint-Germain-en-Laye, at the Place de l'Europe. It opened on 26 August 1837, and with its success was quickly replaced by a larger building on rue de Stockholm, and then an even larger structure, the beginning of the Gare Saint-Lazare, built between 1841 and 1843. It was the station for the trains to Saint-Germain-en-Laye, Versailles and Rouen.\n\nThe Péreire brothers argued that Gare Saint-Lazare should be the unique station of Paris, but the owners of the other lines each insisted on having their own station. The first \"Gare d'Orléans\", now known as the \"Gare d'Austerlitz\", was opened on 2 May 1843, and was greatly expanded in 1848 and 1852. The first Gare Montparnasse opened on 10 September 1840 on \"avenue du Maine\", and was the terminus of the new Paris-Versailles line on the left bank of the Seine. It was quickly found to be too small, and was rebuilt between 1848 and 1852 at the junction of rue de Rennes and boulevard du Montparnasse, its present location. \n\nThe banker James Mayer de Rothschild received the permission of the government to build the first railroad line from Paris to the Belgian border in 1845, with branch lines to Calais and Dunkerque. The first \"embarcadére\" of the new line opened on \"rue de Dunkerque\" in 1846. It was replaced by a much grander station, Gare du Nord, in 1854. The first station of the line to eastern France, the Gare de l'Est was begun in 1847, but not finished until 1852. Construction of a new station for the line to the south, from Paris to Montereau-Fault-Yonne began in 1847 and was finished in 1852. In 1855 it was replaced by a new station, the first Gare de Lyon, on the same site. \n\nThe rapidly growing French economy under Napoleon III led to major changes in the architecture and urban design of Paris. New types of architecture connected with the economic expansion; railroad stations, hotels, office buildings, department stores and exposition halls, occupied the center of Paris, which previously had been largely residential. To improve traffic circulation and bring light and air to the center of the city, Napoleon's Prefect of the Seine, destroyed the crumbling and overcrowded neighborhoods in the heart of the city and built a network of grand boulevards. The expanded use of new building materials, especially iron frames, allowed the construction of much larger buildings for commerce and industry. \nWhen he declared himself Emperor in 1852, Napoleon III moved his residence from the Élysée Palace to the Tuileries Palace, where his uncle Napoleon I had lived, adjoining the Louvre. He continued the construction of the Louvre, following the grand design of Henry IV; he built the Pavillon Richelieu (1857), the guichets of the Louvre (1867), and rebuilt the Pavillon de Flore; he broke with the neo-classicism of the wings of the Louvre built by Louis XIV; the new constructions were perfectly in harmony with the Renaissance wings. \n\nThe dominant architectural style of the Second Empire was the eclectic, drawing liberally from the architecture of the Gothic style, Renaissance style, and style of Louis XV and Louis XVI. The best example was the Opéra Garnier, begun in 1862 but not finished until 1875. The architect was Charles Garnier (1825–1898), who won the competition against a Gothic-revival style by Viollet-le-Duc. When asked by the Empress Eugenie what the style of the building was called, he replied simply \"Napoleon III.\" It was at the time the largest theater in the world, but much of the interior space was devoted to purely decorative spaces; grand stairways, huge foyers for promenading, and large private boxes. The façade was decorated with seventeen different materials, marble, stone, porphyry and bronze. Other notable examples of Second Empire public architecture include the Palais de Justice and the Court of Cassation by Joseph-Louis Duc (1862–68); the Tribunal de Commerce by Antoine-Nicolas Bailly (1860–65), and the Théâtre du Châtelet by Gabriel Davioud (1859–62) and Theater de la Ville, facing each other on Place du Châtelet.\n\nThe Second Empire also saw the restoration of the famed stained glass windows and structure of Sainte-Chapelle by Eugène Viollet-le-Duc; and extensive restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. Later critics complained that some of the restoration was more imaginative than precisely historical.\nThe map and look of Paris changed dramatically under Napoleon III and Baron Haussmann. Haussmann demolished the narrow streets and crumbling medieval houses in the center of the city (including the house where he was born) and replaced them with wide boulevards lined by large residential buildings, all of the same height (Twenty meters to the cornice, or five stories on boulevards and four on narrower streets), with façades in the same style, and faced with the same cream-colored stone. He completed the east-west axis of the city center, the Rue de Rivoli begun by Napoleon, built a new North-south axis, Boulevard de Sébastopol, and cut wide boulevards on both the right and left banks, including the Boulevard Saint-Germain, Boulevard Saint-Michel, usually culminating in a domed landmark. if a dome was not already there, Haussmann had one built, as he did with the Tribunal de Commerce and the Church of Saint-Augustin.\n\nThe centerpiece of the new design was the new Paris Opera, designed by Charles Garnier. In the latter years of the Empire, he built new boulevards to connect the city center with the eight new arrondissements which Napoleon III attached to the city in 1860, along with new city halls for each arrondissement. New city halls were also built for many of the original arrondissements. The new city hall of the First arrondissement by Jacques Ignace Hittorff (1855–60), close the medieval church of Saint-Germain-Auxerois the historic center of the city. The new city hall was in neo-Gothic style, echoing the medieval church, complete with a rose window. A neo-Gothic bell tower by Théodore Ballu (1862),\n\nTo provide green space and recreation for the residents of the outer neighborhoods of the city, Haussmann built large new parks Bois de Boulogne, Bois de Vincennes, Parc Montsouris and Parc des Buttes Chaumont to the west, east, north and south, filled with picturesque garden follies, as well as numerous smaller parks and squares where the new boulevards met. City architect Gabriel Davioud devoted considerable attention to the details of the city infrastructure. Haussmann also built a new water supply and sewer system under the new boulevards, planted thousands of trees along the boulevards, and ornamented the parks and boulevards with kiosks, gateways, lodges and ornamental grills, all designed by Davioud.\n\nReligious architecture finally broke away from the neoclassical style which had dominated Paris church architecture since the 18th century. Neo-Gothic and other historical styles began to be built, particularly in the eight new arrondissements farther from the center added by Napoleon III in 1860. The first neo-Gothic church was the Basilica of Sainte-Clothilde, begun by Christian Gau in 1841, finished by Théodore Ballu in 1857. During the Second Empire, architects began to use metal frames combined with the Gothic style; the Eglise Saint-Laurent, a 15th-century church rebuilt in Neo-Gothic style by Simon-Claude-Constant Dufeux (1862–65), and Saint-Eugene-Sainte-Cecile by Louis-Auguste Boileau and Adrien-Louis Lusson (1854–55); and Saint-Jean-Baptiste de Belleville by Jean-Bapiste Lassus (1854–59). The largest new church built in Paris during the Second Empire was Church of Saint Augustine (1860–71), by Victor Baltard, the designer of the metal pavilions of the market of Les Halles. While the structure was supported by cast-iron columns, the façade was eclectic.\n\nThe industrial revolution and economic expansion of Paris required much larger structures, particularly for railroad stations, which were considered the new ornamental gateways to the city. The new structures had iron skeletons, but they were concealed by Beaux-Arts façades. The Gare du Nord, by Jacques Ignace Hittorff (1842–65), had a glass roof with iron columns thirty-eight meters high, while the façade was in the beaux-arts style faced with stone and decorated with statues representing the cities served by the railway.\n\nThe most dramatic use of iron and glass was in the new central market of Paris, Les Halles (1853–70), an ensemble of huge iron and glass pavilions designed by Victor Baltard (1805–1874).\nHenri Labrouste (1801–1875) used iron and glass to create a dramatic cathedral-like reading room for the Bibliothèque nationale de France, site Richelieu (1854–75). \n\nThe architecture of Paris created during the \"Belle Époque\", between 1871 and the beginning of the First World War in 1914, was notable for its variety of different styles, from Beaux-Arts, neo-Byzantine and neo-Gothic to Art Nouveau, and Art Deco. It was also known for its lavish decoration and its imaginative use of both new and traditional materials, including iron, plate glass, colored tile and reinforced concrete.\n\nThe fall of Napoleon III in 1871 and advent of the Third Republic was followed by the brief Paris rule of the Paris Commune (March–May 1871). In the final days of the Commune, as the French Army recaptured the city, the Communards pulled down the column in Place Vendôme and burned a number of Paris landmarks, including the 16th-century Tuileries Palace, the 17th-century Hôtel de Ville, the Ministry of Justice, the Cour des Comptes, the Conseil d'Etat, the Palais de la Légion d'Honneur, the Ministry of Finance, and others. The interior of the Tuileries Palace was completely destroyed, but the walls were still standing. Haussmann and others called for its restoration, but the new government decided it was a symbol of the monarchy and had the walls torn down. (A fragment of the building can be seen today in the Park of the Trocadero). Most of the others were restored to their original appearance. To celebrate the rebuilding of the city the Parisians hosted the first of three universal expositions which attracted millions of visitors to Paris, and transformed the architecture of the city. \n\nThe \"Art Nouveau\" became the most famous style of the \"Belle Époque\", particularly associated with the Paris Métro station entrances designed by Hector Guimard, and with a handful of other buildings, including Guimard's \"Castel Béranger\" (1898) at 14 \"rue La Fontaine\", in the 16th arrondissement, and the ceramic-sculpture covered house by architect Jules Lavirotte at 29 Avenue Rapp (7th arrondissement). The enthusiasm for \"Art Nouveau\" did not last long; in 1904 the Guimard Metro entrance at Place de l'Opera it was replaced by a more classical entrance. Beginning in 1912, all the Guimard metro entrances were replaced with functional entrances without decoration.\n\nFrom the 1870s until the 1930s the most prominent style for Paris churches was the Romano-Byzantine style; the model and most famous example was the Sacré-Cœur, by Paul Abadie, whose design won a national exposition. Its construction lasted the entire span of the Belle Epoque, between 1874 and 1913, under three different architects; it was not consecrated until 1919. It was modeled after the romanesque and Byzantine cathedrals of the early Middle Ages, which Abadie had restored. The style also appeared in the church of Notre-Dame d'Auteuil by Émile Vaudremer (1878–92) The church of Saint-Dominque, by Leon Gaudibert, (1912–25) followed the style of Byzantine churches, with a massive central dome. The first church in Paris to be constructed of reinforced concrete was Saint-Jean-de-Montmartre, at 19 \"rue des Abbesses\" at the foot of Montmartre. The architect was Anatole de Baudot, a student of Viollet-le-Duc. The nature of the revolution was not evident, because Baudot faced the concrete with brick and ceramic tiles in a colorful \"Art nouveau\" style, with stained glass windows in the same style.\n\nAristide Boucicaut launched the first modern department store in Paris Au Bon Marché, in 1852. Within twenty years, it had 1,825 employees and an income of more than 20 million francs. In 1869 Boucicault began constructing a much larger store, with an iron frame, a central courtyard covered with a glass skylight. The architect was Louis-Charles Boileau, with assistance from the engineering firm of Gustave Eiffel. After more enlargements and modifications, the building was finished in 1887, and became the prototype for other department stores in Paris and around the world.\nAu Bon Marché was followed by au Louvre in 1865; the Bazar de l'Hôtel de Ville) in 1866, Au Printemps in 1865; La Samaritaine in 1870, and Galeries Lafayette in 1895. All the new stores glass skylights whenever possible to fill the stores with natural light, and designed the balconies around the central courts to provide the maximum of light to each section. \nBetween 1903 and 1907 the architect Frantz Jourdain created the interior and façades of the new building of La Samaritaine.\n\nThe safety elevator had been invented in 1852 by Elisha Otis, making tall office buildings practical, and the first skyscraper, The first skyscraper, the Home Insurance Building, a ten-story building with a steel frame. had been built in Chicago by Louis Sullivan in 1893–94, but Paris architects and clients showed little interest in building tall office buildings. Paris was already the banking and financial capital of the continent, and moreover, as of 1889 it had the tallest structure in the world, the Eiffel Tower. While some Paris architects visited Chicago to see what has happening, no clients wanted to change the familiar skyline of Paris. \n\nThe new office buildings of the Belle Époque often made use of steel, plate glass, elevators and other new architectural technologies, but they were hidden inside sober neoclassical stone façades, and the buildings matched the height of the other buildings on Haussmann's boulevards. The headquarters of the bank Crédit Lyonnais, built in 1883 on the boulevard des Italiens in 1883 by William Bouwens Van der Boijen, was in the Beaux-Arts style on the outside, but inside one of the most modern buildings of its time, using an iron frame and glass skylight to provide ample light to large hall where the title deeds were held. In 1907 the building was updated with a new entrance at 15 rue du Quatre-Septembre, designed by Victor Laloux, who also designed the Gare d'Orsay, now the Musée d'Orsay The new entrance featured a striking rotunda with a glass dome over a floor of glass bricks, which allowed the daylight to illuminate the level below, and the three other levels below. The entrance was badly damaged by a fire in 1996; the rotunda was restored, but the only a few elements still remain of the titles hall.\n\nThe Belle Époque was the golden age of the Paris railroad station; they served as the gateways of the city for the visitors who arrived for the great Expositions. A new Gare de Lyon was built by Marius Tudor between 1895 and 1902, making the maximum use of glass and iron combined with a picturesque bell tower and Beaux-Arts façade and decoration. The café of the station looked down on the platform where the trains arrived. The Gare d'Orsay (now the Musée d'Orsay was the first station in the center of the city, on the site of the old Ministry of Finance, burned by the Paris Commune. It was built in 1898–1900 in the palatial Beaux-Arts style by architect Victor Laloux. It was the first Paris station to be electrified and to place the train platforms below street level, a model soon copied by New York and other cities. \n\nPrivate houses and apartment buildings in the Belle Époque were usually in the Beaux-Arts style, either neo-Renaissanace or neoclassical, or a mixture of the two. A good example is the Hôtel de Choudens (1901) by Charles Girault, built for a client who wanted a house in the style of the Petit Palais, which Giraud had designed. Apartment buildings saw changes in the interiors; with the development of elevators, the apartment of the wealthiest residents moved from the first floor above the street to the top floor. The rooflines of the new apartment buildings also changed, as the city removed the restrictions –imposed by Haussmann; the most extravagant example was the apartment building at 2729 quai Anatole-France in 7th arrondissement (1906) which sprouted profusion of turrets, spires and decorative arches, made possible by reinforced concrete. A competition for new façades was held in 1898, and one winner was Hector Guimard for the design of a new apartment building, the Castel Béranger (1895–98]], the first Paris building in the Art Nouveau style. The façade was inspired by the work of the Belgian Art-Nouveau pioneer Victor Horta; it used both elements of medieval architecture and curved motifs inspired by plants and flowers. Horta designed every detail of the house, including furniture, wallpaper, door handles and locks. The success of the Castel Beranger led to Guimard's selection to design the entrance of stations of the new Paris Métro. In 1901 the façade competition was won more extravagant architect, Jules Lavirotte, who designed a house for the ceramic maker Alexandre Bigot which was more a work of inhabited sculpture than a building. The façade was entirely covered with decorative ceramic sculpture. The popularity of Art Nouveau did not last long; the last Paris building in the style was Guimard's own house, the Hôtel Guimard at 122 Avenue Mozart (1909–13).\n\nThe Art Nouveau had its moment of glory in Paris beginning in 1898, but was out of fashion by 1914. The Art Deco, which appeared just before the war, became the dominant style for major buildings between the wars. The primary building material of the new era was reinforced concrete. The structure of the buildings was clearly expressed on the exterior, and was dominated by horizontal lines, with rows of bow windows and small balconies, They often had classical features, such as rows of columns, but these were expressed in a stark modern form; ornament was kept to a minimum; and statuary and ornament was often applied, as a carved stone plaque on the façade,rather than expressed in the architecture of the building itself. \n\nThe leading proponents of the art deco were Auguste Perret and Henri Sauvage. Perret designed the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées, the first art deco building in Paris, in 1913, just before the War. His major achievements between the wars were the building of the \"Mobilier National\" (1936) and the Museum of Public Works (1939), now the Economic and Social Council, located on place d'Iéna, with its giant rotunda and columns inspired by ancient Egypt. Sauvage expanded the La Samaritaine department store in 1931, preserving elements of the Art-Nouveau interior and façades, while giving it an art-deco form. He experimented with new, simpler forms of apartment buildings, including the stepped building, creating terraces for the upper floors; and covered concrete surfaces with white ceramic tile, resembling stone. He also was a pioneer in the use of prefabricated building materials, reducing costs and construction time.\n\nA related Paris fashion between the wars was the \"pacquebot\" style, buildings that resembled the ocean liners of the period, with sleek white façades, rounded corners, white façades, and nautical railings. They often were built on narrow pieces of land, or on corners. One example is the building at 3 boulevard Victor in the 15th arrondissement, built in 1935.\n\nThe international expositions of the 1920s and 1930s left fewer architectural landmarks than the earlier exhibitions. The 1925 Exposition of decorative arts had several very modern buildings, the Russian pavilions, the art deco \"Pavillon du Collectionneur\" by Ruhlmann and the \"Pavillon d'Esprit\" by Le Corbusier, but they were all torn down when the exhibit ended. One impressive art deco building from the 1934 Colonial Exposition survived; the Museum of the Colonies at la Port Doréé, by Albert Laprade, 89 meters long, with a colonnade and a front wall entirely covered with a bas-relief by Alfred Janniot on the animals, plants, and cultures the theme the cultures of the French colonies. The interior was filled with sculpture and murals from the period, still visible today. Today the building is the Cité nationale de l'histoire de l'immigration, or museum of the history of immigration.\n\nThe Paris International Exposition of 1937, held on the eve of World War II, was not a popular success; its two largest national pavilions were those of Nazi Germany and Stalinist Russia, facing each other across the central esplanade. The chief architectural legacies were the Palais de Chaillot, where the old Palais de Trocadero had been, by Jacques Carlu, Louis Hippolyte Boileau and Léon Azéma, (1935–37), built of concrete and beige stone, and the Palais de Iena, facing it. Both were built in a monumental neoclassical style. The nearby Palais de Tokyo was another exhibit legacy, designed by André Auber], Jean-Claude Dondel, Paul Viard and Marcel Dastugue (1934–37), in a similar neoclassic style, with a colonnade. It is now the modern art museum of the city of Paris. Another exhibit legacy is the former Museum of Public Works (1936–48) at Place and Avenue Iena, by Auguste Perret. It contains an impressive rotunda and conference hall with a neoclassical façade, all built of reinforced concrete. After the War it was converted into the headquarters of the French Economic, Social and Environmental Council. \n\nThe architect Auguste Perret had anticipated modern residential style in 1904, with an art deco house of reinforced concrete faced with ceramics on Rue Franklin. Henri Sauvage also made art-deco residential buildings with clean geometric lines, made of reinforced concrete faced with white ceramic tiles. The architect Charles-Édouard Jeanneret-Gris, better known as Le Corbusier. went further, designing houses in geometric forms, lacking any ornament. At age of twenty-one worked as an assistant in the office of Perret. In 1922 he opened his own architectural office with his cousin Pierre Jeanneret in 1922 and built some of his first houses in Paris, notably the Villa La Roche at 10 square du Docteur-Blanche in the 16th arrondissement, built for a Swiss pharmaceuticals magnate. Built in 1923, it introduced elements found in many of Corbusier's later buildings, including white concrete walls, was constructed in 1923, and introduced many of the themes found in Corbusier's later work, including an interior ramp between levels and horizontal bands of windows. He also designed the furniture for the house. Robert Mallet-Stevens pursued a similar modernist style, composed of geometric shapes, walls of glass, and an absence of ornament. He built a studio and residence with a large glass wall and spiral stairway for glass designer Louis Barillet at 15 square Vergennes (15th arrondissement) and constructed a series of houses for artists, each one different, on what is now known as rue Mallet-Stevens in the 16th arrondissement. One of the most striking houses of the 1920s was the house of artist Tristan Tzara 15 avenue Junot in the 18th arrondissement. Designed by the Austrian architect Adolf Loos. The interior was completely irregular; each room was of a different size, and on a different level. Another unusual house was the Maison de Verre or \"Glass house\" at 31 rue Saint-Guillaume in the 7th arrondissement, built for Doctor Dalace by Pierre Chareau, with Bernard Bijvoet (1927–31). It was made entirely of bricks of glass, supported by a metal frame. \n\nModernist buildings built in the 1920s and 1930s were relatively rare. The most characteristic Paris residential architect of the 1920s was Michel Roux-Spitz, who built a series of large luxury apartment buildings in the 1920s and 1930s, mostly in the 6th and 7th arrondissements. The buildings were all built of reinforced concrete, and featured and had white walls, often faced with stone, and horizontal rows of three-faced bow windows, a modernized version of the Haussmann apartment buildings on the same streets.\n\nBeginning in 1919, soon after the end of World War I, the French government began building public housing on a huge scale, particularly on the vacant land of the former fortifications around the city. The new buildings were called HBMs, or \"Habitations à Bon Marché\" (Low-cost residences]. They were concentrated to the north, east and south of the city, while a more expensive type of housing, the ILM, or \"Immeubles à loyer moyen\", or moderate priced residences, intended for the middle class, were built to the west of the city. A special agency of architects was established to design the buildings. The first group of 2,734 new housing units, called the \"Cité de Montmartre\" was built between the Portes of Clignancourt and Montmartre between 1922 and 1928. The new buildings were constructed of concrete and brick. The earliest buildings had many decorative elements, particularly at the roofline, including concrete pergolas. The decoration became less over the years, and over time the brick gave way gradually to reinforced concrete façades. \n\nSeveral new churches were built in Paris between the wars, in varied styles. The Église du Saint-Esprit, (1928–32), designed by Paul Tournon, located at 186 Avenue Daumesnil in the 12th arrondissement, designed by Paul Tournon. has a modern exterior, made of reinforced concrete covered with red brick and modern bell tower 75 meters high, but the central feature is a huge dome, 22 meters in diameter, The design, like that of the Basilica of Sacré-Cœur, was inspired by Byzantine churches. The interior was decorated with murals by several notable artists, including Maurice Denis. The Église Saint-Pierre-de-Chaillot, at 31 avenue Marceau (16th), was designed by Émile Bois (1932–38). Its tower and massive Romanesque entrance was inspired by the churches of the Périgord region. The Church of Sainte-Odile at 2 Avenue Stephane-Mallarmé (17th arrondissement), by Jacques Barges (1935–39) has a single nave, three neo-Byzantine cupolas, and the highest bell tower in Paris.\n\nThe Grand Mosque of Paris was one of the more unusual buildings constructed during the period. Intended to honor the Muslim soldiers from the French colonies who died for France during the war, it was designed by the architect Maurice Tranchant de Lunel, and built and decorated with the assistance of craftsmen from North Africa. The project was funded by the National Assembly in 1920, construction began in 1922, and it was completed in 1924, and dedicated by the President of France, Gaston Doumergue, and the Sultan of Morocco, Moulay Youssef. The style was termed \"Hispano-Moorish\" and the design was largely influenced by the Grand Mosque of Fez, Morocco. \n\nIn the years after World War II, modernism became the official style for public buildings, both because it was new and fashionable, and partly because it was usually less expensive to build. Buildings were designed to express their function, using simple geometric forms, with a minimum of ornament and decoration. They were usually designed so that every office had its own window and view. The materials of choice were reinforced concrete, sometimes covered with aluminum panels, and glass. The term \"Palais\" used for many public buildings before the war was replaced by the more modest term \"Maison\", or \"House.\" In place of decoration, the buildings often contained works of sculpture in interior courtyards and were surrounded by gardens. There was little if anything specifically French about the new buildings; they resembled modernist buildings in the United States and other parts of Europe, and, particularly under President Mitterrand, were often designed by internationally famous architects from other countries.\n\nAmong the earliest and most influential of the new public buildings was the Maison de la Radio, the headquarters of French national radio and television, along the Seine in the 16th arrondissement, designed by Henry Bernard (1952–63). Bernard had studied at the École des Beaux-Arts, won the Prix de Rome, and eventually became the head of the Academy of Beaux-Arts, but he converted with enthusiasm to the new style. The Maison de Radio was composed of two circular buildings fitted one inside the other; an outer circle facing the river, with a thousand offices; an inner circle made up of studios; and a 68-meter tall tower in the center, which contains the archives. It was originally designed with a concrete façade on the outer building, but it was modified and covered with a skin of aluminum and glass. It was described by its builders as a continuation toward the west of the line of great monuments beside the Seine; the Louvre, the Grand Palais, and Palais de Chaillot. \n\nOther major public buildings in the monumental modernist style included the headquarters of UNESCO, the United Nations cultural headquarters, on Place Fontenoy in the 7th arrondissement, by Marcel Breuer, Bernard Zehrfuss and Pier Luigi Nervi (1954–58), in the form of a tripod of three wings made of reinforced concrete, with gardens between the wings. Each office in the building benefited from natural light and an exterior view. The headquarters of the French Communist Party at 2 Place du Colonel Fabien (19th arrondissement), was designed by Oscar Niemeyer, who had just finished designing Brasília, the new Brazilian capital city. It was constructed between 1969 and 1980, and was an eight-story block built on columns above the street, with a smooth undulating glass façade. The auditorium next to the building was half buried underground, covered by a concrete dome that allowed light to enter \n\nIn the 1970s, French Presidents began to build major architectural projects which became their legacy, usually finished after they left office. The first was Georges Pompidou, a noted admirer and patron of modern art, who made plans for what became, after his death in 1974, the Centre Pompidou. It was designed by Renzo Piano and Richard Rogers, and expressed all of its mechanical functions on the exterior of the building, with brightly colored pipes, ducts and escalators. The principal architectural projects begun by his successor, Giscard d'Estaing, were the conversion of the Musée d'Orsay, a central railroad station transformed into a museum devoted to 19th-century French art, (1978–86), and the City of Sciences and Industry (1980–86) in the Parc de la Villette in the 19th arrondissement, whose features included the La Géode, a geodesic sphere 36 meters in diameter made of polished stainless steel, now containing an omnimax theater (1980–86), designed by Adrien Feinsilber. \n\nFrançois Mitterrand (1981–95) had fourteen years in power, enough time to complete more projects than any president since Napoleon III. In the case of the Louve pyramid, he personally selected the architect, without a competition. He completed the projects begun by Giscard and began even more ambitious projects of his own, many of them designed for the celebration of the bicentennial of the French Revolution in 1989; his \"Grands Travaux\" i(\"Great Works\") included the Institut du Monde Arabe, by architect Jean Nouvel, finished in 1987; the Grand Louvre, including the glass pyramid (1983–89) designed by I. M. Pei; the Grande Arche of La Défense by the Danish architect Johan Otto von Spreckelsen, a building in the form of a giant ceremonial arch, which marked the western end of the historical axis that began at the Louvre; (inaugurated July 1989); the Opéra Bastille, by architect Carlos Ott, opened on July 13, 1989, the day before the bicentennial of the French Revolution, and a new building for the Ministries of the Economy and Finance, at Bercy (12th arrondissement) (1982–88), a massive building next to the Seine which resembled both a gateway to the city and a huge bridge with its feet in the river, designed by Paul Chemetov and Borja Huidobro. His last project was located on the other side of the Seine from the Finance Ministry; a group of four book-shaped glass towers for the French National Library (1989–95), designed by Dominique Perrault. The books were stored in the towers, while the reading rooms were located beneath a terrace between the buildings, with windows looking out onto a garden. \n\nUntil the 1960s there were no tall buildings in Paris to share the skyline with the Eiffel Tower, the tallest structure in the city; a strict height limit of thirty-five meters was in place. However, in October 1958, under the Fifth Republic, in order to permit the construction of more housing and office buildings, the rules began to change. A new urban plan for the city was adopted by the municipal council in 1959. Higher buildings were permitted, as long as they met both technical and aesthetic standards. The first new tower to be constructed was an apartment building, the Tour Croulebarbe, at 33 rue Croulebarbe in the 13th arrondissement. It was twenty-two stories, and 61 meters high, and was completed in 1961. Between 1960 and 1975, about 160 new buildings higher than fifteen stories were constructed in Paris, more than half of them in the 13th and 15th arrondissements. Most of them were about one hundred meters high; several clusters of high-rises the work one developer, Michel Holley, who built the towers of Place d'Italie, Front de Seine, and Hauts de Belleville. \n\nTwo of the projects of residential towers were especially large; 29 hectares along the banks of the Seine at Beaugrenelle, and 87 hectares between Place de l'Italie and Tolbiac. Blocks of old buildings were torn town and replaced with residential towers.\n\nBetween 1959 and 1968, the old Montparnasse railway station was demolished and rebuilt nearby, making a large parcel of land available for construction. The municipal council learned of the project only indirectly, through a message from the ministry in charge of construction projects. The first plan, proposed in 1957, was a new headquarters for Air France, a state-owned enterprise, in a tower 150 meters high. In 1959, the proposed height was increased to 170 meters. In 1965, to protect the views in the historic part of the city, the municipal council declared that the new building should be shorter, so it would not visible from the esplanade of Les Invalides. In 1967, the Prefect of Paris, representing the government of President de Gaulle, overruled the municipal council decision, raised the height to two hundred meters, to create more rentable office space. The new building, built between 1969 and 1972, was (and still is) the tallest building within the city limits.\n\nThe growing number of skyscrapers appearing on the Paris skyline provoked resistance from the Paris population. In 1975, President Giscard d'Estaing declared a moratorium on new towers within the city, and in 1977 the City of Paris was given a new \"Plan d'Occupation des Sols\" (POS) or Land use plan, which imposed a height limit of twenty-five meters in the center of Paris and 31 meters in the outer arrondissements. Also, new buildings are required to be constructed right up to the sidewalk, without setbacks, further discouraging very tall buildings. The building of skyscrapers continued outside of Paris, particularly in the new business district of La Défense.\n\nAt the end of the 20th century, the tallest structure in the City of Paris and the Île-de-France was still the Eiffel Tower in the 7th arrondissement, 324 meters high, completed in 1889. The tallest building in the Paris region was the Tour First, at 225 meters, located in La Défense built in 1974.\n\nAfter the War Paris faced a severe housing shortage; most of the housing in the city dated to the 19th century, and was in terrible condition. Only two thousand new housing units were constructed between 1946 and 1950. The number rose to 4,230 in 1951 and more than 10,000 in 1956. The office of public housing of the City of Paris acquired the cheapest land it could buy, at the edges of the city. In 1961, when land within the city was exhausted, they were authorized to begin buying land in the surrounding suburbs. The first postwar social housing buildings were relatively low- three or four stories. Much larger buildings began to appear in the mid-1950s. They were built with prefabricated materials and placed in clusters. They were known as HLMs, or \"Habitations à loyer moderé\", or moderate-cost housing. A larger type of HLM began to appear in the mid-1950s, known as a \"barre\", because it was longer than it was high. The usually had between 200 and 300 apartments, were built in clusters, and were often some distance from shops and public transportation. They were welcomed by the families who lived there in the 1950s and early 1960s, but in later years they were crowded with recent immigrants and suffered from crime, drugs and social unrest.\n\nParis architecture since 2000 has been very diverse, with no single dominant style. In the field of museums and monuments, the most prominent name has been Jean Nouvel. His earlier work in Paris included the Institut du Monde Arabe (1982–87), and the Fondation Cartier (1992–94), which features a glass screen between the building and the street. In 2006 he completed the Musée du Quai Branly, the Presidential project of Jacques Chirac, a museum presenting the cultures of Asia, Africa and the Americas. It also included a glass screen between the building and the street, as well as a façade covered with living plants. In 2015, he completed the new Paris symphony hall at La Villette. \n\nThe American architect Frank Gehry also made a notable contribution to Paris architect, for his American Center in Bercy (1994), which became the home of the Cinémathèque Française in 2005; and for the building of the Louis Vuitton Foundation, a museum of modern and contemporary art in the Bois de Boulogne.\n\nA notable new style of French architecture, called Supermodernism by critic Hans Ibeling, gives precedence to the visual sensations, spatial and tactile, of the viewer looking at the façade. The best-known architects in this school are Jean Nouvel and Dominique Perrault.\n\nOne important theme of early-21st-century Paris architecture was making buildings that were ecologically friendly.\n\n\nAnother important theme in 21st-century Parisian architecture is the conversion of older industrial or commercial buildings for new purposes, called in French \"reconversions\" or \"transcriptions\". \n\nSince the 1980s the more recent constructions of HLMs, or public housing, in Paris have tried to avoid the massive and monotonous structures of the past, with more picturesque architectural detail, variety of styles, greater use of color, and large complexes broken into smaller mini-neighborhoods. The new style, called \"fragmentation\", was particularly pioneered by architects Christian de Portzamparc and Frédéric Borel. In one complex on rue Pierre-Rebière in the 17th arrondissement the 180 residences were designed by nine different teams of architects. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16539443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16539443", "title": "Avviso", "text": "Avviso\n\nAvvisi (; plural: \"avvisi\") were hand-written newsletters used to convey political, military, and economic news quickly and efficiently throughout Europe, and more specifically Italy, during the early modern era (1500-1700). In the beginning avvisi were very similar to letters written from one dignitary to another, but diverged from such letters in the sixteenth century with more standardized practices. Avvisi can be divided into two categories: 'public' avvisi and 'secret' avvisi, though each copy was often written by the same person.\n\nIn Italian, the word avviso translates to \"notice\", \"warning\", \"advice\", or \"announcement\".\n\nThe avvisi found their origins, and peaked, in the early modern Italian world - primarily Rome and Venice. The popularity and distribution of the avvisi was driven by each court's desire to know what the opposing and even the allied courts are up to. News networks spread all across Europe, but the avviso itself was generally created in either Rome or Venice, with the rest of Europe simply consuming.\n\nAvvisi influenced many aspects of the early modern world including public opinion, political battles, the nature of propaganda, careers, and historical records.\n\nPublic Opinion\nAvvisi helped to develop public opinion by informing, organizing, and providing a voice for the public. They allowed the general public to learn of the secret dealings of the nation's leaders, form a response, and then have that response actually be heard by their fellow citizens - essentially making them new players in the game of politics.\n\nPolitics and War\nThough officially renounced by many leaders at the time, avvisi were then used by those very same leaders to wage their political campaigns against one another. Destruction and censorship of avvisi was selective, demonstrating that the authorities recognized the importance of spreading news but would have preferred to spread only news that was of benefit to themselves. Competition quickly led to avvisi being used as propaganda devices both as a machine of war and in attempts to turn the mob on their own country. Conflict as a result of avvisi being used as propaganda is certainly not out of the question, either with the public or between nations. Further the avvisi provided the public with political power rarely seen before in the form of 'secret' information that could have allowed them to have influence upon the courts, and government decisions. A minority of people, such as Paolo Sarpi, believed that government institutions should rescind their censorship of avvisi and make full use of publication to combat enemy publication. An example of this includes several pamphlets written by Sarpi in defense of Venice's rights over the Adriatic.\n\nFinances and Wealth\nCreation and distribution of avvisi required writers, those who can deliver the news, and those who can grant the information that makes the news and this provided many people with jobs, earning them money through standard means. In addition, invaluable secrets provided by the avvisi could be used in extortion or allowing individuals to influence prices at market. Those who used the avvisi in this way held the opinion that the information provided by avvisi could not be stopped and it was thus better to capitalize on it.\n\nHistory\nAvvisi led to a realization of the importance of the after-effects of historical records, whether they be true or not. Paolo Sarpi's work is an excellent example of this, as he states that he may cause more damage dead (through his writing) than he ever had alive.\n\nPublic avvisi were news letters that were available to anyone who wished to travel to a distribution center in a city. They were limited to generic, often harmless facts.\n\nSecret avvisi were news letters available to a restricted audience, much akin to duplicated personal letters. Their content could be considerably more harmful than the public counterpart, as it could include opinions of top officials and the discussions from secret meetings. This form of communication often had a very specific purpose.\n\nDistribution of the avvisi began with the sources of information. Reporters (newsletter writers, menanti, reportisti, gazzettieri) had networks of contacts filtering information from chancelleries, Catholic churches, Protestant churches, foreign embassies, and shops. Information was gathered and put together individually or at a Scrittoria (writer's workshop). The avvisi would then be distributed by regular news services and organized postal service networks. Whether newsletters were sent weekly, bi-weekly, or annually depended on the type of news and the writer. As the public avvisi were presented the news would quickly spread by word of mouth among the illiterate, no longer relying on the avvisi reporters. The range of information presented within avvisi was very broad, including countries such as France, Italy, and the Netherlands.\n\nWriters of avvisi received very little recognition which, quite often, was exactly how they wanted it. Fear of censorship kept writers from signing work under their own name - for in the early modern era censorship could mean death. Mutual bonds of trust developed between certain reporters and clients once they found they could trust each other to provide reliable information without any trouble. The quality of avvisi may fall under question for numerous reasons; the recopying of documents, the translation of documents, and the insertion of opinions for example.\n\nCensorship of avvisi began with Pope Pius V's campaign, beginning in 1570CE. Writers caught distributing what the Catholic Church determined to be defamatory were punished severely - several examples of punishments include death, imprisonment, and torture (sometimes to death). \n\nThe harsh punishments did not prevent writers from continuing in their task, though they were forced to use pseudonyms. \n\nThe avvisi were blamed for causing disputes by church officials and writers. However, institutions that condemned avvisi found they could do nothing to quell the hand-written newsletters and began to use them to their own benefit, even with bans still in place. \n\nReligious leaders were not alone in banning newsletters - more secular leaders also laid down limitations and prohibitions, including Venice's Council of Ten who held bans until at least 1567. \n\nA popular reporter, Paolo Sarpi, was a minority in his time for holding the belief that the spread of information could not be stopped so censorship was a waste of resources. Sarpi believed that the only way to combat the enemy's newsletters is for the government to have their own avviso.\n\nIt was not until the middle of the seventeenth century that printed avvisi became more common, and even then Venice and Rome abstained from print. Due to restrictions from censorship on printed works, a sense of urgency, and a desire for personalization hand written avvisi would not be easily replaced by the printing press. \n\nPrinted works were produced much more slowly and as a result the public would lose interest in the topic before it came to print. \n\nFurther, printed avvisi were less robust in an effort to avoid censors and cut editing time.\n\n\nDeVivo, Filippo. \"Paolo Sarpi and the Uses of Information in Seventeenth-Century Venice.\" Media History, 11:1, 37-51. London: Routledge. 2005.\n\nInfelise, Mario. \"Roman Avvisi: Information and Politics in the Seventeenth Century.\" Court and Politics in Papal Rome, 1492-1700. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2002. 212-228.\n\n"}
{"id": "1604478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1604478", "title": "Badchen", "text": "Badchen\n\nA badchen or badkhn (a Hebrew word meaning jester that has been Yiddishized as \"badchen\") is a Jewish comedian with scholarly overtones who entertained guests at weddings among the Ashkenazim of Eastern Europe. Today they are found in all countries with Chassidic populations, including the United States, performing their shtick at weddings.\n\nThe \"badchen\" was considered a standard part of the wedding party, as \"de rigueur\" as the officiating rabbi. An elaborate traditional wedding might also involve a \"letz\" (lit. a clown, here a \"jongleur\" or musician) and a \"marshalik\" (a master of ceremonies).\n\nThe \"badchen\" has to be able both to provide the energy for a party before and after the ceremony itself and also to make the transition to a more serious tone immediately before the ceremony. To this end his comedy was not of a slapstick variety but rather verbal with many intricate Talmudic references and in-jokes.\n\nFollowing the Council of Vilna on July 3, 1661, a decree was issued banning merry-making, including the setting of limitations on wedding celebrations, public drinking, fire dances, masquerades, and Jewish comic entertainers. The \"badchen\" was exempted from the decree.\n\nSome famous \"badchonim\" include Chaim Menachem (Mendel) Mermelstein (born March 2, 1920 in Munkacz, died November 7, 1985 in New York), considered the father of modern-day \"badchonus\", and the present-day performers Yankel Miller and Yoel Lebowits.\n\nThe 19th-century Broder singers began as \"badchonim\", but soon started to perform outside of the context of weddings. They, in turn, are usually seen as the forerunners of Yiddish theater.\n\nOn the Jewish holiday of Purim many young men undertake to be \"badchonim\" during Purim spiels.\n\n"}
{"id": "58035132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58035132", "title": "Benty Grange hanging bowl", "text": "Benty Grange hanging bowl\n\nThe Benty Grange hanging bowl is a fragmentary Anglo-Saxon artefact from the 7th century AD. All that remains are two escutcheons; a third disintegrated soon after excavation, and no longer survives. The escutcheons were found in 1848, alongside the better-known Benty Grange helmet, by the antiquary Thomas Bateman in a tumulus at the Benty Grange farm in the English county of Derbyshire. They were undoubtedly buried as part of an entire hanging bowl, placed in what appears to have been the burial mound of a high-status warrior.\n\nWhat remains of one escutcheon belongs to Museums Sheffield and in 2018 was displayed at Weston Park Museum. The other is held by the Ashmolean Museum at the University of Oxford; as of 2018 it is not on display.\n\nThe two surviving escutcheons are made of enamelled bronze and are in diameter. They have the same design and plain frames, parts of which survive. Both escutcheons are fragmentary; enough survives of each for the design to be reconstructed, and, because of overlapping segments, for it to be certain that they represent two distinct pieces. Whether they are hook escutcheons, associated with the suspension hooks on the exterior of the bowl, or basal discs, placed at the base of the interior, is uncertain, but a ring on the back of one fragment suggests an association with the suspension chains, and a contemporary watercolour by Llewellynn Jewitt seems to show that a hook may have been present at excavation. The decomposed enamel background appears yellow to the eye, as it did when excavated. A red-yellow colour scheme has also been suggested, but on minimal and possibly incorrect evidence. As sampling of the enamel was not permitted when the Sheffield escutcheon was analysed at the museum in 1968, however, the all-yellow hypothesis is not definitive.\n\nThe reconstructed design shows three \"ribbon-style fish or dolphin-like creatures\", each biting the tail of the animal ahead of it. The bodies are yellow like the background, and defined by their outlines. They are limbless, the tails curled in a circle, and the jaws both long and curved; where the tails should pass through the jaws of the animals behind, gaps appear, creating slight separations between segments of tail. Each animal has a small eye shaped like a pointed oval. The outer borders of the discs, the plain frames, and the contours and eyes of the animals, are all tinned or silvered.\n\nSurviving records of the third escutcheon indicate that it was of a different style and size. Drawings by Bateman and Jewitt show it with a scroll pattern and small piece of frame. It appears to have been about half the size of the other two, and may have originally been placed at the bottom of the hanging bowl.\n\nThe escutcheons were undoubtedly part of an entire hanging bowl when buried. Nothing else survives. The mass of corroded chainwork discovered six feet away, which survives only in illustrations by Jewitt and descriptions by Bateman, is unlikely to be related; although a large and intricate chain was found with a cauldron from Sutton Hoo, the Benty Grange chains appear dissimilar. They were also likely too heavy to have been used to suspend the hanging bowl.\n\nThe animal designs on the Benty Grange hanging bowl are paralleled by designs on other escutcheons, and even more closely by designs on medieval illuminated manuscripts. Three escutcheons from a hanging bowl found in Faversham show animals that also look like dolphins, but with more developed bodies; a better parallel is with a disc found near the Lullingstone hanging bowl that is also decorated with dolphin-like creatures.\n\nDespite the similarities with other escutcheon and disc designs, several manuscript illustrations are more closely related to the Benty Grange designs. Bateman remarked on this as early as 1861, \"shrewdly\" as it turned out, noting that similar patterns were used in \"several manuscripts of the VIIth Century, for the purpose of decorating the initial letters.\" In particular, the mid-seventh-century Durham Gospel Fragment contains two similar fish-like motifs contained within the lateral stroke of the INI monogram that introduces the Gospel of Mark.\n\nThe hanging bowl was discovered on 3 May 1848 during an excavation on the Benty Grange farm in Derbyshire, in what is now the Peak District National Park. It was found by Thomas Bateman, an archaeologist and antiquarian who was nicknamed \"The Barrow Knight\" for his excavation of more than 500 barrows. Bateman described Benty Grange as \"a high and bleak situation\"; its barrow, which still survives, is prominently located by a major Roman road, now the A515, possibly in order to display the burial to passing travellers. It may have also been designed to share the skyline with two other nearby monuments, Arbor Low stone circle and Gib Hill barrow. The Benty Grange barrow comprises a circular central mound approximately in diameter and high, an encircling fosse about wide and deep, and outer penannular banks around wide and high. The entire structure measures approximately .\n\nUnnoted in Bateman's account is that he was likely not the first person to dig up the grave. The fact that the objects were found in two clusters separated by six feet, and that other objects that normally accompany a helmet were absent, such as a sword and shield, suggests that the grave had previously been looted. Being so large it may alternatively or additionally have contained two inhumations, only one of which was discovered by Bateman.\n\nThe Benty Grange barrow was designated a scheduled monument on 23 October 1970. The list entry notes that \"[a]lthough the centre of Benty Grange [barrow] has been partially disturbed by excavation, the monument is otherwise undisturbed and retains significant archaeological remains.\" It goes on to note that further excavation would yield new information. The nearby farm was renovated between 2012 and 2014; as of 2018 it is rented out as a holiday cottage.\n\n"}
{"id": "15616451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15616451", "title": "Book frontispiece", "text": "Book frontispiece\n\nA frontispiece in books is a decorative or informative illustration facing a book's title page — on the left-hand, or verso, page opposite the right-hand, or recto, page. While some books depict thematic elements, other books feature the author's portrait as the frontispiece. In medieval illuminated manuscripts, a presentation miniature showing the book or text being presented (by whom and to whom varies) was often used as a frontispiece.\n\nThe word comes from the French \"frontispice\", or the late Latin \"frontispicium\", from the Latin \"frons\" ('forehead') and \"specere\" ('to look at'). It was synonymous with 'metoposcopy'. In English, it was originally used as an architectural term, referring to the decorative facade of a building. In the 17th century, the French term came to refer to the title pages in books, which were often decorated at the time with intricate engravings that borrowed stylistic elements from architecture, such as columns and pediments. Over the course of the 16th century, the title pages of books came to be accompanied by illustrations on the facing page, known as , and the term took on the meaning it retains today as early as 1682. By then, the English spelling had also morphed, by way of folk etymology, from 'frontispice' to 'frontispiece' ('front' + 'piece').\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52714307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52714307", "title": "Cairo Contemporary Dance Center", "text": "Cairo Contemporary Dance Center\n\nCairo Contemporary Dance Center (CCDC) is an independent space for contemporary dance in Egypt. It’s the first contemporary dance school in Africa and the Middle East, offering a 3-year full-time professional training program for young dancers, choreographers and dance teachers. It also provides artistic residencies, as well as open classes and workshops in different kinds of dance and activities.\n\nCairo Contemporary Dance Center was founded in 2012 by Karima Mansour, under the patronage of the Egyptian Ministry of Culture, at the Creativity Center on the ground of Cairo Opera House.\n\nIt moved to its current location in January 2014, and currently operates as an independent project under the umbrella of MAAT for Contemporary Art.\n\nCairo Contemporary Dance Center was the first professional contemporary dance full-time school in Africa and the Arab world. The 3-year full-time professional training program is officially recognized by the UNESCO International Dance Council.\nThe first generation of students graduated in June 2015, and a new generation started the three year program in September 2016.\n\nCCDC welcomes every year a diversity of international and Egyptian teachers, including Laurance Rudic, Vincent Mantsoe, Mark Tompkins, Olivier Dubois, and Claude Brumachon.\n\nIn addition to its professional training, CCDC also offers to the general public open classes and workshops for adults and children in several disciplines covering dance, martial arts and other activities. Workshops are also regularly organized with invited local and international artists, in different disciplines including contemporary dance, contact improvisation, acting, tango, and yoga.\n\nCairo Contemporary Dance Center participates in the independent contemporary art scene in Egypt, and regularly organizes performances or dance presentations. In the recent years, CCDC has participated in or organized the following events:\n\nIn February 2017, CCDC organized the '5 ra2s' festival, to celebrate the graduation of the first generation of students from its full-time training program and its 5th anniversary.\nMany events took place in various independent art spaces in Cairo, such as Zawya cinema, Zigzag club or Room Art Space and Cafe.\n\n"}
{"id": "12833149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12833149", "title": "Cathedral of Salvador", "text": "Cathedral of Salvador\n\nThe Cathedral Basilica of Salvador (\"Catedral Basílica de Salvador\"), officially dedicated to the Transfiguration of Christ and named Primatial Cathedral Basilica of the Transfiguration of the Lord is the seat of the Archbishop of the city of Salvador, in the State of Bahia, in Brazil. The Archbishop of Salvador is also \"ex officio\" Primate of Brazil.\n\nThe Diocese of São Salvador da Bahia de Todos os Santos, the first in the Portuguese colony of Brazil, was created in 1551, only two years after the foundation of Salvador by nobleman Tomé de Sousa. The first bishop, Pero Fernandes Sardinha, arrived in 1552. A cathedral was built in the centre of Salvador around this time.\n\nIn 1676 the city became the seat of an archdiocese. After 1758, when the Jesuit Order was expelled from Brazil, the former Jesuit church of Salvador became the cathedral of the city. The building of the former cathedral was demolished in 1933. A scheme of its foundations can be seen on the pavement of the \"Praça da Sé\" (Se Square) in Salvador.\n\nIn its origins the present cathedral building was the church of the Jesuit Order of Salvador. The Jesuits arrived in the city still in the 16th century and built a first church and college. In the second half of the 17th century the Jesuits built a new church - the one that exists today - in the Mannerist style then fashionable in Portugal. The façade is very similar to contemporary Portuguese churches like the Jesuit Church of Coimbra.\n\nThe façade is made in light \"Lioz\" stone brought from Portugal and is flanked by two short bell towers. It has three portals with statues of Jesuit saints, Ignatius of Loyola, Francis Xavier and Francis Borgia. The gable on the upper storey of the façade is flanked by typical Mannerist volutes.\nInside, the cathedral is a one-aisled church of rectangular shape, without transept and with a very shallow main chapel. The side walls of the church have a series of lateral chapels decorated with altarpieces. This floorplan scheme is based on the Church of São Roque in Lisbon, the Jesuit church of the Portuguese capital, built a century earlier.\n\nThe chapels of the cathedral offer an interesting showcase of altarpiece art from the late 16th through the mid-18th centuries, all decorated with sculptures and paintings. Very rare are two 16th century Renaissance altarpieces that belonged to the previous Jesuit church and were reused in the new building. The altarpiece of the main chapel is a fine example of 17th century Mannerist art. Other chapels have Baroque altarpieces from the mid-18th century. The barrel vault covering the nave of the church is decorated with wooden panels dating from the 18th century and displays the Jesuit emblem \"IHS\".\n\nThe sacristy of the church is richly decorated with Baroque furniture, 17th-century Portuguese tiles (azulejos) and ceiling wooden panels painted with Mannerist motifs and portraits of important Jesuits.\n\nThe façade and floorplan of the Jesuit church of Salvador influenced several other colonial churches in Northeast Brazil, including the São Francisco Church of Salvador.\n\nThe Cathedral of Salvador was listed as a historic structure by the National Institute of Historic and Artistic Heritage in 1938. The structure was registered under the Book of Historical Works, Inscription 77 and Book of Fine Arts, fls. 14. The directive is dated May 25, 1938.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1017350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1017350", "title": "Cosmorama", "text": "Cosmorama\n\nA cosmorama is an exhibition of perspective pictures of different places in the world, usually world landmarks. Careful use of illumination and lenses gives the images greater realism.\n\nCosmorama was also the name of an entertainment in 19th century London, at 207-209 Regent Street, at which the public could view scenes of distant lands and exotic subjects through optical devices that magnified the pictures. It was later converted into an exhibition of curiosities named the Prince of Wales Bazaar. Exhibits included a sea lion, a sea serpent and L. Bertolotto's Flea circus. \n\nPort-au-Prince Cosmorama was an exhibition of perspective pictures of different places and landmarks in the world, held on March 2, 1834 in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.\n\n\"Cosmoramic Views Exhibited\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27568835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27568835", "title": "Douglas Moggach", "text": "Douglas Moggach\n\nDouglas Moggach (MA and PhD Princeton) is a professor at the University of Ottawa and life member of Clare Hall, Cambridge. He is Honorary Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sydney, and has held visiting appointments at Sidney Sussex College and King's College, Cambridge, the Centre for History and Economics, Cambridge, Queen Mary University of London, and the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa. Professor Moggach has also held the University Research Chair in Political Thought at the University of Ottawa and the Killam Research Fellowship awarded by the Canada Council for the arts. He was named Distinguished University Professor at University of Ottawa in 2011.\n\nDouglas Moggach has written on Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Immanuel Kant, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Hegel, Friedrich Schiller, Bruno Bauer, aesthetics, Republicanism, and history of ancient and modern political thought.\n\nMoggach's research falls into three principal areas: analysis of the philosophy, politics, and economic thought of the Hegelian School; the historical development of German idealism from Leibniz to Hegel; and aesthetics and politics. His archival research led to the discovery and publication of lost texts by Bruno Bauer, a leading figure in the Hegelian School of the 1830s and 1840s. Moggach argues that the political thinking of the German Hegelians represents a specific variant of republicanism, which recognizes modern social diversity and alienation. His works in German Idealism have focused on the foundational importance of Leibniz for Kant and Hegel, and trace the origins of Kant's juridical thought in the German Enlightenment debates about freedom, perfection, and state economic direction. Moggach has also published on aesthetics and politics, notably on Schiller and Bauer, developing the concept of an aesthetic republicanism based on an aesthetic version of Kant's moral idea of autonomy. Moggach also traces the relations between German idealism and various strands of Romanticism, and contributes to conceptions of universality, freedom and republicanism in European political thought. Moggach wrote the chapter on Marx in The Impact of Idealism, ed. N. Boyle and J. Walker, vol. 2 (CUP 2013), and the chapter on Romantic Political Thought in Oxford Companion to European Romanticism, ed. P. Hamilton (OUP, 2016).\n\nMoggach discovered an unpublished manuscript by Bruno Bauer, which had been awarded the Prussian Royal Prize in philosophy by a panel headed by Hegel in 1829. This manuscript, written in Latin, is held in the archives of the Humboldt Universität, Berlin, but had not been recognized before. Moggach shows how after attending Hegel's lectures on logic in 1828, Bauer applies this logic to the categories of aesthetic judgement that Kant had developed in his Third Critique. Starting from the Hegelian premise of the unity of thought and being, Bauer wants to show that the separation of subject and object in Kant's Critiques of Pure and of Practical Reason remains a feature of the Critique of Judgement. Bauer argues that Kant does make efforts to bridge the gap, and he opens the path that Hegel will follow, but Kant does not finally succeed in this objective. What prevents him from succeeding is his faulty treatment of the categories involved in making aesthetic judgements. Moggach thinks that in this early text Bauer also lays the foundations for his later theory of infinite self-consciousness, and for his specific type of ethical and historical idealism.\n\nMoggach's book, The Philosophy and Politics of Bruno Bauer (CUP, 2003) traces the emergence of German republicanism from philosophical and religious polemics of the 1830s and 1840s, its relation to Kant and Hegel, and its assessment of political and economic change. This work was short-listed for the 2004 C.B. Macpherson Prize, awarded by the Canadian Political Science Association. It was reviewed by Frederick Beiser in Times Literary Supplement, 24 September 2004; Choice, Nov. 2004; and other journals.\n\nMoggach's edited volume, The New Hegelians (CUP, 2006), is intended to show that after Hegel's death in 1831, members of his school developed his philosophy in new directions in order to understand the evolution of modern society, along with the modern state and economy. The Hegelians were not mere imitators of their teacher, but creative thinkers about modernity and its problems, especially social cohesion and the conflict of individual interests. According to Moggach, many of these New or Young Hegelians found a solution to these conflicts in republican ideas of virtue, rethought so that they are compatible with modern institutions. Moggach applies the idea of republican rigorism, introduced by other historians of political thought, to outline these solutions. For the Hegelians, this concept involves changing the boundaries between morality and legality that Kant had established. Kant had claimed that the legal sphere concerns the external aspects of action alone, but not its motivating principles or maxims. For the Hegelians, though, political action has to promote, or at least not hinder, the external freedom of others, but it must also have the right kinds of internal ethical motivation: this means not acting from private interest, but from an idea of the general good. In this way Kant's idea of autonomy is related to political as well as moral action, and to republican ideas of freedom as non domination.\n\nIn a subsequent edited volume, Politics, Religion, and Art: Hegelian Debates (Northwestern UP, 2011), Moggach and his colleagues continue to establish the importance of the Hegelians of the 1830's and 1840's as innovators in theology, aesthetics, and ethics, and as creative contributors to foundational debates about modernity, state, and society. The political significance of religious and aesthetic debates, and the German contributions to republican political thought, receive further attention in this volume, which also draws heavily on archival material.\n\nMoggach, Beiser, and other interlocutors debated Schiller's republicanism in a special issue of Inquiry (2008). Moggach produced a critical discussion of multiculturalism, in a published conversation with Charles Taylor, Jeremy Waldron, James Tully, and others.\n\nSelected Books\n\n"}
{"id": "40851981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40851981", "title": "Emamzadeh Ahmad", "text": "Emamzadeh Ahmad\n\nEmamzadeh Ahmad() is an imamzadeh in Isfahan, Iran. The emamzadeh comprises a tomb, to the north and west of which are two \"iwans\"; the tomb faces a vast yard where several famous people, like Amir Kabir's daughter and Naser al-Din Shah's sister and wife, are buried. The emamzadeh himself was likely the Sultan Ali's son, who has been buried in Mashhad-e Ardehal.\n\nThe oldest part of the structure is a single piece of white stone, which is long. The stone is placed under a wooden reticulated window facing alley. It is said, that it is a piece of Somnath stone. About the Somnath stone Jaberi Ansari has written in the history of Isfahan and Rey as follows:\n\n\"Mahmud of Ghazni brought a stone as a souvenir from Somnath in India. It is said that it had been a part of the most important idol in that land. This stone was transferred to Isfahan and a century later it was cut in half and made a stone trough from one half in Vazir Tahmasb school and the other half was dragged on the ground (for demonstrating the abjection of the idol) and then it was taken to emamzadeh Ahmad.\"\n\nEmamzadeh Ahmad was built in Seljukid era, but the present structure belongs to Safavid age. The ceiling of the mausoleum is covered by Muqarnas works. Around the sepulcher there is a poem in golden Nastaliq script, in which Zellossoltan has mentioned repairments and revampings of this structure by him.\n\nUnlike few decorations of the imamzadeh's tomb, the tomb of Amir Kabir's daughter and Naser al-Din Shah Qajar's sister and wife have been fully decorated with stucco, painting and mirror decoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "31852130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31852130", "title": "Entasis (company)", "text": "Entasis (company)\n\nEntasis is a Danish architecture firm based in Copenhagen. It takens its name from the Greek word for tension.\n\nEntasis was founded by Christian and Signe Cold in 1996. Their first building, a new main entrance for Copenhagen Zoo, was awarded the AIA Prize 'Best Building in Europe 1998'. \n\nIn 2007 the firm won the open international competition for the redevelopment of the former Carlsberg brewery site in Copenhagen, with a proposal which, in reaction to Modernist planning, relied on dense, Medieval town centres for inspiration. An emphasis on physical density and the human scale are characteristic of their work. The same trend is seen in their entry for the Søtorvet competition in Silkeborg which they won in 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7984080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7984080", "title": "Full translation of the Behistun Inscription", "text": "Full translation of the Behistun Inscription\n\nThe following translation of the Behistun Inscription was made by L.W. King and R.C. Thompson \n<br>Where names are rendered by the Greek or Biblical form, the Persian original regularly follows in square brackets. The letter \"x\" in Persian transcription represents the \"kh\" sound, like German \"ch\" as pronounced after \"a\", \"o\" or \"u\" in German.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42257132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42257132", "title": "Gabrielle Enthoven", "text": "Gabrielle Enthoven\n\nGabrielle Enthoven OBE (born Augusta Gabrielle Eden Romaine, 12 January 1868 – 18 August 1950) was an English playwright, amateur actress, theatre archivist, and prolific collector of theatrical ephemera relating to the London stage. In 1911, Enthoven began campaigning for the establishment of a theatrical section in one of the British museums. In 1924, the Victoria and Albert Museum accepted her private collection, at this time containing over 80,000 theatrical playbills and programmes. The material became the founding collection of the museum's theatre and performance archives.\nEnthoven's unparalleled knowledge of the London stage and its history earned her the sobriquet 'the theatrical encyclopaedia'.\n\nGabrielle Enthoven was born at 21 New Street, Spring Gardens, Westminster, London to William Govett Romaine (1815–1893) and Frances Pheobe Romaine, née Tennant (1822/3-1909). Enthoven's year of birth was incorrectly listed in the family Bible as 1870, a fact which Enthoven did not discover until her sixtieth birthday. On finding this out, Enthoven remarked: 'Such a shock darling. I was giving a lovely party and John Gielgud and everybody was coming, and suddenly I discovered that I was not sixty at all, but sixty-two. Wasn't it awful?'\n\nHer father was Judge Advocate General in the Crimea and India, Legal Advisor to the Board of Admiralty, and Minister in Egypt. Much of Enthoven's childhood was spent abroad as she accompanied her father on trips to various postings in both India and the Middle East. In Egypt, Enthoven used to ride in her own carriage during state occasions and rode in the desert with Charles George Gordon\nOn her father's retirement in 1879, the family returned to England, settling in a house named 'The Old Priory' just outside Windsor, Berkshire where Enthoven lived until her father's death in 1893. Enthoven had never been educated at school, nor had she been tutored by a governess. As a result, she was fifteen years old before she could either read or write. She could, however, as a result of her travels abroad, speak fluent Egyptian, Turkish, two Hindustani dialects, French, Italian, Spanish, and some German.\n\nThere were occasions when a carriage was sent from nearby Windsor Castle to collect Enthoven and her friends to play with the young Princess Mary of Teck, later to become Queen Mary of Teck. Enthoven recalled slapping the young princess across the face on one occasion, an incident which the two women would recall in later years when the Queen visited Enthoven at the Victoria and Albert Museum\n\nEnthoven was a small child when she first visited the theatre. She climbed out of her bedroom window clutching a shilling and made the journey to the Gaiety Theatre, London to see a production of The Forty Thieves. Climbing beneath the legs of the waiting crowd, Enthoven was picked up by a large navvy who placed her upon his shoulders and pushed his way through the throng of people to find them a seat on the front row of the gallery. Half-way through the performance, he took out an orange from his pocket, bit into it, pushed some sugar in the hole with his thumb, and gave it to Enthoven to suck.\n\nIn 1893, Enthoven married Major Charles Henfrey Enthoven (1866–1910), who at various times, occupied the role of Staff Captain in the Royal Engineers, General Staff Officer at the War Office, and Chief Officer of London County Council's Parks Department. The couple had no children. Charles Enthoven died of pneumonia on 30 April 1910. Enthoven was not reported as being present at her husband's funeral.\n\nEnthoven was a recognised and well-known figure within London's theatrical society. She was an inveterate first-nighter and had friendships with many members of the theatrical elite including John Gielgud, Peggy Ashcroft, Marda Vanne, Edward Gordon Craig, Edith Craig and Noël Coward. In 1921, Enthoven was staying in New York with Cecile Sartoris, with whom she had translated \"The Honeysuckle\", a play by the Italian writer Gabriele D'Annunzio. The play was performed that year at the Lyceum Theatre. Noël Coward stayed with Enthoven and Sartoris during this period. Recalling his stay with the two women, he wrote: ‘they said that when I sold a play, or made some money somehow, I could pay rent, but until then I was to be their guest […] I accepted and moved in immediately, grateful not only for their kindness, but for their company.' During Enthoven's stay in New York, in a flat on Washington Square South, she spent time with many influential people within artistic and theatrical society. The American poet and playwright Mercedes de Acosta wrote about Enthoven's stay in New York in her 1960s memoir Here Lies the Heart. She described Enthoven as being 'a woman of rare culture, of heart, and remarkable intelligence. A woman, too, of great humour. There were few like her.'\n\nEnthoven knew Oscar Wilde very well and would visit him at his home as a young girl. After these visits she would return home and copy down the stories he had told her. In 1948, Enthoven presented the British Library with a pamphlet containing four prose poems of Wilde's that she had had printed and bound under the title \"Echoes\". In 1889, Wilde dedicated a poem to Enthoven entitled \"Remorse. (a study in saffron)\".\n\nIt is possible that Enthoven engaged in lesbian relationships after the death of her husband. She was a central member of London's lesbian haut monde. This group included women such as the writer Radclyffe Hall, best known for writing the banned lesbian classic The Well of Loneliness, the sculptor Una Troubridge, the painter Romaine Brooks, and the tennis player and fencer Toupie Lowther. The group referred to themselves as 'The Circle' and would regularly meet to have dinner parties at their homes in the exclusive London borough of Kensington and Chelsea, visit the theatre, or dance at clubs in Soho such as the 'Cave of Harmony' and 'The Orange Tree'. The women lived a privileged lifestyle of grand houses, villas in the sun, inherited incomes, successful careers, and stylish lovers. In the 1930s, however, Enthoven was dropped by her friends Radclyffe Hall and Una Troubridge, with Troubridge accusing Enthoven of 'repudiating her own kind when opportune to do so' and adding 'she's a rat and we have no use for her'. Enthoven had played the leading role in a production of Colette's novel Chéri which had been adapted by Troubridge. The play was an unequivocal failure, and this may have contributed to the demise of the women's friendship.\n\nIn 1923, Enthoven was instrumental in bringing the Italian actress Eleonora Duse over to England for her farewell engagement.\n\nEnthoven was a keen playwright and had her first play, \"Montmartre\", produced at the Alhambra Theatre, London in 1912 as part of a revue called \"Kill That Fly!\" The Observer gave a favourable review of the sketch, writing: ‘the little wordless thrill, \"Montmartre\", by Gabrielle Enthoven, is the most thrilling thing of its kind we have seen'.\nShe was the president and founding member, alongside her close friends Edith Craig and Christopher St. John, of the Pioneer Players, a London-based theatre society founded in 1911. The company was formed from members of the Actresses' Franchise League. The Pioneer Players engaged heavily with socio-political issues of the era. The society 'acknowledged an interest in women's suffrage and in any other current movement of interest'. In 1916, the company produced the play \"Ellen Young\", written by Enthoven and Edmund Goulding. It was performed at the Savoy Theatre on 2 April 1916.\n\nIn 1921, Enthoven and Cecile Sartoris's translation of Gabriele D'Annunzio's \"The Honeysuckle\" played at the Lyceum Theatre (Broadway) in New York, as well as at 'Playroom 6' in Soho, London on 9 May. 1927.\nIn 1930, \"The Confederates\", a play written by Enthoven in collaboration with H. M. Harwood was produced at the Ambassadors Theatre.\nEnthoven was an enthusiastic amateur actress and appeared with the 'Windsor Strollers', the 'Old Stagers' and other prominent amateur companies. The Belgian playwright Maurice Maeterlinck asked Enthoven to appear in Paris in a production of his play Pelléas and Mélisande, although she never did. Sarah Bernhardt and Mrs Patrick Campbell eventually performed together in this play after being introduced to one another by Enthoven.\nEnthoven was a councillor of the Stage Society and, in 1933, the vice-president of the newly formed 'Passing Theatres Association', a society with the aim to collect records and visit sites of old theatres. Shortly before her death in 1950, Enthoven became the first Chairman of the Society for Theatre Research\n\nAfter her marriage in 1893, Enthoven began to regularly attend the theatre and to paste various press cuttings relating to the London theatre into scrapbooks. Her great interest in theatre and theatre history led Enthoven to start collecting memorabilia and ephemera related to the stage. She recalled: 'It started when, in 1900, I noticed an inaccuracy in some book of stage history. Being passionately interested in the theatre, I wrote to the author who admitted a mistake. There the matter might have stopped; but soon afterwards I happened to find some old playbills that proved my point. That was when the \"collecting\" flea bit me.' A chance purchase of two-hundred playbills became the foundation of Enthoven's vast collection, and, after her husband's death in 1910, Enthoven's collecting increased.\n\nIn 1911, Enthoven mounted a national campaign to establish a permanent theatre collection in a British institution. Writing to The Observer she advocated for: \nNational theatre collections had been established in America at the Harvard Library, in Rome, Milan, Stockholm and Paris, but not in England. The British Museum contained a valuable collection of 600,000 playbills from across Britain and abroad. This collection was, however, considered incomplete.\n\nEnthoven's campaign continued to gain momentum with numerous letters and comments of support appearing in the national press. Enthoven's connections with well-known and celebrated members of theatrical society contributed to the success of the campaign, with people such as Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree, Sir George Alexander, and Sir John Hare publicly declaring their support. In November 1911, it was announced that the London Museum was to devote a section to a permanent exhibition of theatrical objects that would chart the developments and phases of theatre both in Britain and abroad. It was to be the first time that a British museum had a recognised theatrical section. The project was overseen by Guy Francis Laking, the keeper of the London Museum. Enthoven's vast collection of playbills would remain at her home, but she asked the public to lend or give any theatrical objects they possessed to the museum to ensure the exhibition's success. The exhibition was, however, unsuccessful. A visitor to the museum wrote to the Pall Mall Gazette to declare that 'those looking for enlightenment must go away sadly baffled, and those who, having a regard for the sentiment and charm of what such a collection should be, must blush indeed as they see this scanty, mediocre, and careless assortment.' A lacklustre response from the public and a lack of space at the museum were blamed for the exhibition's poor reception.\n\nUndeterred, Enthoven continued to write to museums to establish a permanent theatrical section. Her first choice of a home for her collection and theatrical section was the Victoria and Albert Museum. However, she continued to face difficulties and received a letter from the museum stating that 'there is so little chance of your scheme being adopted that we should scarcely be justified in asking you to come here, as you suggest, to discuss it.' In 1922, the Victoria and Albert Museum held the \"International Theatre Exhibition: Designs and Models for the Modern Stage\" and displayed a number of items from Enthoven's enormous collection. This gave Enthoven the motivation to continue her campaign.\n\nIn the 1920s, Enthoven's collection had increased to such an extent that it could no longer remain in her home. In 1924, after more than a decade of campaigning, the Victoria and Albert Museum finally agreed to house her collection, at this time containing more than 80,000 playbills, prints, books and engravings. The collection was named the \"Gabrielle Enthoven Theatrical Collection\". The playbills were housed in the Department of Engraving, Illustration and Design. In 1925, Enthoven and three members of staff arrived at the museum to begin to catalogue, index and arrange the collection. Enthoven received no payment for her work and paid the wages of her staff from her own funds. An appeal for financial aid to contribute to the cataloguing of the collection was launched in the national press, with theatrical personalities such as Sybil Thorndike supporting the campaign. After the Second World War, the government provided Enthoven with two paid assistants, though she herself never received a salary.\n\nEnthoven had substantial offers from American institutions to purchase her collection. She was once offered £9,000 by an American collector but refused and upon her death it became known that she had once turned down an American offer of £30,000. The collection was to remain in England. Enthoven continued to add to the collection up until her death. At the age of 81, the 'Grand Old Lady of London theatre first-nighters' still arrived at the Victoria and Albert Museum at 10 o'clock every morning to sort and index her playbills.\n\nDuring the First World War Enthoven was one of the first eleven people to join the \"War Refugee Committee\" and became the head of the Correspondence and Indexing Department. In 1915 she began to work for the Red Cross in dealing with missing soldiers and prisoners of war and, in 1916, she eventually became head of the Records Department of the Central Prisoners of War and Missing Persons Committee dealing with the welfare of British prisoners of war in Germany, Russia and Turkey. This work ceased in 1920 owing to Enthoven's ill health. In 1921, Enthoven visited New York as a Red Cross representative to raise funds to build schools for children in devastated areas of France. Enthoven was awarded an OBE in recognition of this work. Radclyffe Hall was said to be 'frankly envious' about Enthoven's activities during the war and the subsequent recognition of her endeavours. Hall had attended Red Cross lectures, learnt first-aid, and transported library books to casualty wards but felt this was not as heroic as the work undertaken by Enthoven.\n\nOn the outbreak of the Second World War, Enthoven suspended her work at the Victoria and Albert Museum and returned to the War Office to work as the head of the Records Department of the Central Prisoners of War. Enthoven, in one of her scrapbooks at the museum, wrote: 'Work ceased here on declaration of War Sep.3 1939. I started work here alone on 13 August 1945.'\n\nEnthoven died at her home in Cadogan Gardens, London aged 82 on 18 August 1950. An obituary appeared in both The Times and The New York Times. Before her death Enthoven confirmed: \nEnthoven bequeathed the residue of her estate to the Ministry of Education who, at the time, were responsible for the Victoria and Albert Museum's finances. The bequest states that Enthoven's money would be used to ensure that ‘proper accommodation for the Gabrielle Enthoven Theatrical collection continues to be provided and for the cataloguing, maintenance arrangement, and description of the Playbills, Prints, Printed Tickets, and other material’.\n\n"}
{"id": "59179882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59179882", "title": "Herakleia head", "text": "Herakleia head\n\nThe Herakleia head is the portrait of a probable Achaemenid Satrap of Asia Minor of the late 6th century, found in Heraclea, in Bithynia, modern Turkey. The head is now located in the Museum of Anatolian Civilizations in Ankara.\n\nThe man depicted in the sculpture was probably a Satrap under Darius I. The man is the service of the Achaemenid Empire is bearded and mustachioed, but probably a Greek from Asia Minor rather than a Persian. The statue is made of marble, and was probably made by a Greek sculptor. The sculpture has been dated to circa 530 BCE, or at leat Late Archaic.\n\nThe Herakliea head is considered as an early attempt towards portraiture with a realistic likeliness. This Eastern portrait in purely East Greek Archaic style, is one of the two known forerunners of extant Greek portraits, together with the Sabouroff head. It is comparable with the Sabouroff head, from about the same period. These nearly life-like portraits allow to define a date for early portraiture which is much earlier than had been previously thought. The first truely individualistic portrait is often considered to be the 470 BCE portrait of Themistocles. In numismatics also, the first portraits of rulers appear with the coins of Themistocles as ruler of Magnesia, and continue with the nearby rulers of Lycia towards the end of the 5th century BCE.\n\nThe Herakleia head is also an important marker for the depiction of Satraps in the period. In particuliar, the banned Athenian general Themistocles, who became Achaemenid Satrap in Magnesia, is seen wearing a tight bonnet with Olive wreath on some of his coins (circa 465-459 BCE). This possibly reflects the headwear of Achaemenid Satraps, such as seen in the Herakleia head.\n"}
{"id": "19063258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19063258", "title": "How to Find the Ideal", "text": "How to Find the Ideal\n\nHow to Find the Ideal () is a 2007 Ukrainian comedy directed by Vera Yakovenko and starring Armen Grigoryan.\n\nA young romantic girl Masha works in a bank. She is divorced, and is interested in a new relations. She met three men: one is a TV showman, the second is a famous musician, and the third is a scandally-known politician...\n\n"}
{"id": "2019007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019007", "title": "Institute of Contemporary Arts Singapore", "text": "Institute of Contemporary Arts Singapore\n\nThe Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) Singapore is the curatorial division of LASALLE College of the Arts, dedicated to supporting innovative and emerging creative practices. Focusing on art and design from the present, it provides an active site for contemporary culture in Singapore. It comprises five galleries that span a total of 1,500 square metres, one of the largest spaces devoted to contemporary art in Singapore. It engages local and international audiences in critical viewing and discussion through a diverse programme of exhibitions, projects, publications and events.\n\nThe ICA Singapore provides a cultural and educational tool for students and the wider public to advance their knowledge and appreciation of the contemporary local, regional and international arts.\n\nThe Dr Earl Lu Gallery was established by LASALLE College of the Arts in 1986, in recognition of a major contribution of artworks by philanthropist and artist Dr Earl Lu, it presented exhibitions of traditional and contemporary arts, often with a focus on practices from Asia. From 2001 to 2004, under the directorship of Binghui Huangfu, the gallery worked closely with LASALLE’s Contemporary Asian Art Centre, a research facility directed by T.K. Sabapathy that sought to advance knowledge and collaboration between artists across Asia through dialogue, research and publications. In 2004, Dr Earl Lu Gallery was renamed the Institute of Contemporary Arts Singapore and repositioned as a centre of Singapore and international contemporary art. In 2007, the institute moved along with LASALLE College of the Arts from the Goodman Road campus to a new campus on McNally Street, where it is based today.\n\nSince its establishment, the ICA Singapore has presented exhibitions of international contemporary art. These include solo exhibitions by Yeo Hwee Bin (2000), On Kawara (2004), Antony Gormley (2005), Lim Tzay Chuen (2005), Roberto Chabet (2011), Ian Woo (2011), Jeremy Sharma (2012) Milenko Prvacki (2012), Shubigi Rao (2013), Tang Da Wu (2013), Jack Tan (2015), Marco Fusinato (2015) and Ana Prvački (2015–16). Group exhibitions include \"Text & Subtext: International Contemporary Asian Women Artists Exhibition\" (2000), \"Sight and Sight: Translating Cultures\" (2003), \"Lost to the Future: Contemporary Art from Central Asia\" (2013), \"Sound: Latitudes and Attitudes\" (2014), \"Countershadows (tactics in evasion)\" (2014), \"Artists Imagine a Nation: SG50: Pictures of People and Places from the Collections of Koh Seow Chuan and Friends\" (2015), \"Rendez-Vous\" (2015) and \"Sous la Lune/Beneath the Moon\" (2015–16).\n\nPast directors of the ICA Singapore include Binghui Huangfu (1996–2003), Eugene Tan (2003–08) and Charles Merewether (2010–13). The current director of ICA Singapore is Melbourne-born curator Bala Starr.\n\nIn February 2016, two items that were part of the group show \"Fault-lines: Disparate and desperate intimacies\" were removed from artist Loo Zihan's installation \"Queer objects: An archive for the future\". This action was agreed after discussion between ICA Singapore staff, curator Wong Binghao, and Loo Zihan, and was due to the nature of the objects, which could potentially be considered offensive to some members of the public. The items were a penis sheath and a butt plug. The ICA Singapore, curator and artist emphasised that the decision was taken to make the exhibition accessible to all, including students of the LASALLE College of the Arts, half of whom are under 18 years old.\n"}
{"id": "8233916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8233916", "title": "International Wildbird Photographer Awards", "text": "International Wildbird Photographer Awards\n\nInternational Wildbird Photographer Awards or IWP is an annual competition for wild bird photographers. It is mainly for professionals but there are a few categories for amateurs, too. The competition is highly esteemed all over the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "2610117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2610117", "title": "Julius Klinger", "text": "Julius Klinger\n\nJulius Klinger (22 May 1876 – 1942) was an Austrian painter, draftsman, illustrator, commercial graphic artist, typographer and writer. Klinger studied at the Technologisches Gewerbemuseum in Vienna.\n\nKlinger was born in Dornbach near Vienna. In 1895, he found his first employment with the Vienna fashion magazine \"Wiener Mode\". Here he made acquaintance with Koloman Moser, who later would be his teacher; Moser recommended him to the \"Meggendorfer-Blätter\".\n\n1896 saw him moving to Munich where he worked as an illustrator for the \"Meggendorfer-Blätter\" and others. From 1897 to 1902 he was a collaborator to the eponymous Jugendstil magazine \"Die Jugend\".\n\nIn 1897 he relocated to Berlin, where he worked extensively as a commercial graphic artist until 1915. Together with the printing house Hollerbaum und Schmidt, he developed a new fashion of functional poster design that soon gained him international reputation. In 1912 he designed the poster for the \"Rund um Berlin\" air show in Johannisthal. In Berlin he also contributed to \"Das kleine Witzblatt\", \"Lustige Blätter\" and \"Das Narrenschiff\" humorous magazines.\n\nBeginning in 1918, Klinger designed a comprehensive and noted campaign promoting the \"Tabu\" company's cigarette rolling paper, that was advertised all over Vienna in 1918/19. Klinger devised a promotional strategy, spanning from small-sized newspaper advertisements to billboards and painted firewalls – construction site fences and winterized fountain paneling were used as advertising space, too.\n\nBeing of Jewish descent, he suffered from national socialist harassment. According to Viennese police records, he was registered as \"moved to Minsk\" on 2 June 1942, i.e. deported. Presumably, he was killed the same year.\n\nProbably towards the end of 1937 he designed his last poster for the Ankerbrot-Werke factory. The Jewish-owned company was transferred to \"Aryan\" proprietors in 1938; after 1945 legitimate ownership was restored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17789616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17789616", "title": "Jungle Jitters", "text": "Jungle Jitters\n\nJungle Jitters is a 1938 \"Merrie Melodies\" cartoon directed by Friz Freleng.\n\nIn an African jungle, the natives are going about their day, with the jungle elements being intertwined with modern-day elements; for example, the people dancing around a tent when it turns into a makeshift merry-go-round, to the tune of \"The Merry-Go-Round Broke Down\" which has since become the longtime \"Looney Tunes\" theme song.\n\nA traveling dog-like salesman named Manny (a parody of Al Pearce's character Elmer Blurt) comes by to offer them the latest in \"assorted useful, useless, utensils\". The natives capture him, throw him into a pot of boiling water, and ransack his goods. They proceed to familiarize themselves with vacuum cleaners, batteries, light bulbs, etc.\n\nWhen the salesman is introduced to the village queen (depicted as a chicken-like white woman, possibly to avoid any problems with the Hays code over the issue of miscegenation), she takes a liking to him, imagining Manny the salesman as Clark Gable and Robert Taylor. The salesman finds himself with the choice between a forced marriage with the homely queen, or the boiling pot of water. He chooses the pot, and in a closing shot as he sinks into the broth, hopes \"they all get indigestion.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15316430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15316430", "title": "Kahaani", "text": "Kahaani\n\nKahaani (; ) is a 2012 Indian Hindi-language mystery thriller film co-written, co-produced and directed by Sujoy Ghosh. It stars Vidya Balan as Vidya Bagchi, a pregnant woman searching for her missing husband in Kolkata during the festival of Durga Puja, assisted by Satyoki \"Rana\" Sinha (Parambrata Chatterjee) and Khan (Nawazuddin Siddiqui).\n\nMade on a shoestring budget of , \"Kahaani\" was conceived and developed by Ghosh, who co-wrote the film with Advaita Kala. The crew often employed guerrilla-filmmaking techniques on Kolkata's city streets to avoid attracting attention. The film was noted for its deft portrayal of the city and for making use of many local crew and cast members. \"Kahaani\" explores themes of feminism and motherhood in male-dominated Indian society. The film also makes several allusions to Satyajit Ray's films such as \"Charulata\" (1964), \"Aranyer Dinratri\" (1970) and \"Joi Baba Felunath\" (1979).\n\n\"Kahaani\" was released worldwide on 9 March 2012. Critics praised the screenplay, the cinematography and the performances of the lead actors. Following critical acclaim and word-of-mouth publicity, the film earned worldwide in 50 days. The film won several awards, including three National Film Awards and five Filmfare Awards. The latter included trophies for Best Director (Ghosh) and Best Actress (Vidya). A sequel, titled \"\", was released on 2 December 2016.\n\nA poison-gas attack on a Kolkata Metro Rail compartment kills the passengers on board. Two years later Vidya Bagchi (Vidya Balan), a pregnant software engineer, arrives in Kolkata from London during the Durga Puja festivities in search of her missing husband, Arnab Bagchi. A police officer, Satyoki \"Rana\" Sinha (Parambrata Chatterjee), offers to help. Although Vidya claims that Arnab went to Kolkata on an assignment for the National Data Center (NDC), initial investigations suggest that no such person was employed by the NDC.\n\nAgnes D'Mello, the NDC's head of human resources, suggests to Vidya that her husband resembled former employee Milan Damji (Indraneil Sengupta), whose file is probably kept in the old NDC office. Before Agnes can provide any further help she is killed by Bob Biswas (Saswata Chatterjee), an assassin working undercover as a life insurance agent. Vidya and Rana break into the NDC office and find Damji's file, barely escaping an encounter with Bob, who is searching for the same information. Meanwhile, the attempts to obtain Damji's records have attracted the attention of two Intelligence Bureau (IB) officials in Delhi—the chief Bhaskaran K. (Dhritiman Chatterjee) and his deputy Khan (Nawazuddin Siddiqui). Khan arrives in Kolkata and reveals that Damji was a rogue IB agent responsible for the poison-gas attack. In spite of Khan's warnings, Vidya continues her search, fearing that Arnab's resemblance to Damji may have led him into trouble.\n\nThe address on Damji's record leads Vidya and Rana to a dilapidated flat. An errand boy from the neighbourhood tea stall identifies R. Sridhar (Shantilal Mukherjee), an NDC officer, as a frequent visitor to Damji's flat. Bob attempts to kill Vidya, but fails, and is run over by a car during a chase. Examination of Bob's mobile phone leads Vidya and Rana to an IP address sending instructions to kill her. They break into Sridhar's office to verify his IP address, but he is alerted electronically and returns to his office. Vidya accidentally shoots Sridhar dead during a scuffle, which upsets Khan, who had wanted him alive.\n\nSridhar's computer data reveals a code, which when deciphered reveals Bhaskaran's phone number. Vidya calls Bhaskaran to tell him that she has retrieved sensitive documents from Sridhar's office. She asks Bhaskaran to help find her husband in exchange for the documents, but Bhaskaran tells her to contact the local police. Vidya soon gets a call from an unknown number however, warning her that she should hand over the documents to the caller if she wishes to see her husband alive. Khan thinks the caller is Milan Damji.\n\nVidya goes to meet Damji, followed by Rana and Khan. Damji cuts the meeting short when Vidya expresses her doubt that he will be able to return her husband in exchange for the sensitive file, and he attempts to leave. Vidya tries to stop him, and in the ensuing struggle Damji draws a gun on her. Vidya disarms him using the prosthetic belly she has been using to fake her pregnancy and promptly stabbing him in the neck with her hair stick, after shooting him with his own gun. She flees into the crowd before the police arrive, leaving a thank you note for Rana and a pen drive containing data from Sridhar's computer, which leads to Bhaskaran's arrest. Rana concludes that no Vidya or Arnab Bagchi ever existed, and that Vidya had been using the police and the IB to achieve her own ends.\n\nVidya is revealed to be the widow of Arup Basu (Abir Chatterjee), an IB officer and Damji's colleague, who was killed in the poison-gas attack, which also caused Vidya to immediately fall unconscious upon seeing her husband's corpse and suffer a miscarriage. In her mission to avenge his and their unborn child's death, Vidya was helped by retired IB officer Pratap Bajpayee (Darshan Jariwala), who suspected the involvement of a top IB official.\n\n\nSujoy Ghosh approached novelist and script writer Advaita Kala with the idea for the film. Kala took inspiration from her experience in Kolkata, where she had moved in 1999, akin to the protagonist in the film. She reported that despite facing a language barrier and the chaos and poverty of the metropolis, she was charmed by the warmth of the people, which was reflected in the film. Kala started writing in 2009 and finished the 185-page script by February 2010. Her research included reading the books \"Open Secrets: India's Intelligence Unveiled\" by Maloy Krishna Dhar and \"India's External Intelligence: Secrets of Research and Analysis Wing (RAW)\" by V. K. Singh.\n\nGhosh, who co-wrote the story and the screenplay, began to plan the film while awaiting the release of his previous film \"Aladin\" (2009), but the dismal response to \"Aladin\" was a setback. He had to approach several producers to finance him for \"Kahaani\", but was refused and discouraged from making the film owing to three factors: a pregnant woman as the lead star, a bunch of unknown Bengali actors as the supporting cast and Kolkata as a backdrop. Yashraj Films were willing to produce the film, but wanted Ghosh to sign a three-film deal, which he declined because he did not want that much commitment.\n\nBengali film actor Prosenjit Chatterjee encouraged Ghosh to shoot in Kolkata. Ghosh finally selected Kolkata for several reasons: the director's acquaintance with the city, its mix of modernity and old-world charm, and budget constraints. Kolkata is a cheaper location than Mumbai or Delhi, where most Bollywood films are shot.\n\nGhosh admitted in an interview that after his two preceding directorial ventures—\"Aladin\" and \"Home Delivery\" (2005)—performed poorly at the box office, \"Kahaani\" was his last chance to create a niche as a director. He added that the film's plot twist came somewhat accidentally. Having described the skeleton of the story to a friend during its development, the friend called him back a few days later to enquire about his film. The friend had mistakenly imagined sequences which he assumed to be parts of the plot, from which the twist ending was derived.\n\nVidya Balan was the first choice of both writer Advaita Kala and director Sujoy Ghosh. Ghosh had planned for a long time to work with Vidya and approached her in 2010. Unimpressed with the plot outline, Vidya refused, only changing her mind after having read the completed script.\n\nGhosh chose mostly Bengali actors as he wanted to make the characters as authentic as possible. The role of the Inspector Satyoki \"Rana\" Sinha was first offered to Chandan Roy Sanyal, but he could not take the part due to other commitments. Parambrata Chatterjee, a Bengali actor whose acting in the film \"The Bong Connection\" (2006) had impressed Ghosh at the Mumbai Academy of the Moving Image festival, was later offered the role in \"Kahaani\". Chatterjee had earlier worked with Vidya in her début film \"Bhalo Theko\" (2003).\n\nThe casting director Roshmi Banerjee suggested Nawazuddin Siddiqui for the role of Khan. Siddiqui, who had only had minor roles in Bollywood up to that time, was surprised that for the first time he would not have to portray a beggar. Saswata Chatterjee, another Bengali actor, was surprised as well when he was offered the role of the contract killer Bob Biswas. He thought there were suitable actors in Hindi film industry for the role. He said that Ghosh had known him since childhood and was impressed with his acting, so he wanted him as Bob Biswas.\n\nGhosh went against the expectations of casting a popular actor from Bollywood. He signed Bengali actor Abir Chatterjee to play Vidya's husband. According to Ghosh, popular Bollywood actors were not willing to work with him after his two previous flops. He also believed that audience might expect more screen-time from a better-known actor. Several other Bengali film and television actors, such as Indraneil Sengupta and Kharaj Mukherjee, were cast in supporting roles.\n\nBefore the shooting of the film began, Vidya started to use a prosthetic belly to look as close to authentically pregnant as possible. According to news reports, she met doctors and pregnant women to learn about the typical lifestyle and nuances of a pregnant woman, and also made lists of rules and superstitions followed by pregnant women. Vidya said that during her college days she often used to imitate pregnant ladies during stand-up acting among friends, an experience that helped her during the shooting.\n\nWhile briefing Saswata Chatterjee about his character, the cold-blooded killer Bob Biswas, Ghosh used the phrase \"Binito Bob\" (meaning polite Bob), which crystallised the notion of Bob's manners. Further discussions led to the inclusion of paunch and a bald patch. Chatterjee devised the mannerism of rubbing his nails together as some Indians believe doing that helps prevent hair loss. The mannerism was well-noted and praised by the viewers. Ghosh was surprised at how Bob Biswas was greeted by fans as a cult figure. He emphasised that the deliberate ordinariness of Bob Biswas was portrayed so convincingly by Chatterjee that the viewers can expect Bob to be around them at any time and any place.\n\nParambrata Chatterjee said in an interview that he did not identify with the Rana character, owing to the difference between his own urban upbringing and Rana's rural background. Chatterjee visited police stations and did some research \"on their work, mindset and other relevant things\" to prepare for the role. The character Khan was envisaged as a ruthless, arrogant, expletive-spewing officer who cares nothing about the emotional or social consequences of his behaviour. Siddiqui said that he was surprised on being offered the role, and wondered how he could portray the arrogance needed for the character. Ghosh built Khan as a character with lean physical build but full of mental strength, loyalty and patriotism. Khan smokes a relatively cheap brand of cigarette (Gold Flake) despite his high official post; Siddiqui had smoked that brand of cigarette throughout his struggling days in Bollywood and thereafter.\n\nFilming took place on the streets of Kolkata, where Ghosh often employed the art of guerrilla filmmaking (shooting in real locations without any previous knowledge given to onlookers) to avoid unwanted attention. The cinematographer Setu, who had assisted others in the past to shoot documentaries in Kolkata, said that unlike majority of Indian films, \"Kahaani\" was shot mostly without artificial light. The film was shot in 64 days, during which the Durga Puja festival of 2010 took place. Shooting locations in Kolkata included Kalighat Metro station, Nonapukur tram depot, Kumartuli, Howrah Bridge, Victoria Memorial, old houses of North Kolkata and others. The climax, which takes place on the night of Vijayadashami (the last day of Durga Puja), was shot on the night of Vijayadashami in the premises of a \"Barowari\" (publicly organised) Durga Puja celebration in the Ballygunge neighbourhood of Kolkata. Most of the crowd in the climax were not actors. Some actors mingled with the crowd engaged in \"Sindoor khela\"—their job was to appreciate the camera angles and accordingly apply \"sindoor\" (vermilion) on Vidya's face so that accidental exposure of her eyes to \"sindoor\" could be avoided.\n\nGhosh chose the guest house in which the protagonist stays after noticing it during his visit to a neighbouring hotel in April 2010. He booked it for 10 days for , and requested the guest-house employees to keep the shooting schedule a secret. Choosing a room with windows overlooking a busy road, he proceeded to give it an old-fashioned look by replacing the windows' designer grilles with old-fashioned wooden ones, and by painting the room with some rough patches.\n\nAfter \"Ishqiya\" (2010), \"No One Killed Jessica\" (2011) and \"The Dirty Picture\" (2011), \"Kahaani\" was Vidya's fourth woman-centric film to win widespread praise for her unconventional approach to portraying strong female roles. According to Zee News, \"Kahaani\" is a woman's film about \"role reversals, breaking of stereotypes, turning clichés inside out, a woman's journey, and the way she carves a niche for herself in the male-dominated mentalscape of the society.\" Trisha Gupta of \"The Indian Express\" also finds feminist themes in the film. For Ghosh, one aspect of his project \"is a study of motherhood\"; the instinct of a mother to protect her baby inspired him to develop the story.\n\nA recurring theme is the fleeting hint of romance between Rana and Vidya. Ghosh said that this delicate romance was \"the most progressive thing\" in the film—a suggestion that a man could fall in love with a pregnant woman. The director explained that the boy was initially \"fascinated by someone who is literally a hero in his eyes\", as Rana was awed by the computer skills of Vidya. Gradually, the fascinated boy moves into a zone where he tries to protect her.\n\nSome reviewers note that a major protagonist is Kolkata itself, which is \"brimming with warm, sympathetic inhabitants\". A review in Rediff.com notes that the director pays a \"fond yet understated tribute\" to the city by incorporating imagery such as \"yellow taxis, leisurely trams, congested traffic, claustrophobic metros, dilapidated brick houses, tapering alleys, rajnigandhas, lal paad saris, piping hot luchis\". According to the reviewer, \"Kahaani\" did not depend on the tropes of Kolkata culture typically used in Bollywood film—\"O-emphasizing accent, dramatic play of conch shells, rasgulla/mishti doi excesses.\" The director acknowledges that Kolkata \"becomes a central character\" of the film. Gautaman Bhaskaran, writing for \"Gulf Times\", notes that Kolkata imagery was polished up in the film; noted Bengali director Srijit Mukherji argues that the portrayal of the city in \"Kahaani\" was akin to a \"Lonely Planet exotica\" on the city. Uddalak Mukherjee of \"The Telegraph\" explains that Kolkata in \"Kahaani\" was cosmetic and lacked a deep menacing presence. Mukherjee argues the depiction of the city never matches the level of Satyajit Ray's Calcutta trilogy, where \"aided by bloodshed, greed and decadence, ...Calcutta ..., even though a place of dreams, desires and hope, slides irreversibly into chaos, anxiety and a moral crisis, taking its residents with it\".\n\nDurga Puja, the autumnal festival to worship goddess Durga, plays a prominent role in the story. The allegorical yearly return of goddess Durga to slay the demon Mahishasura is alluded to at the end of the film. According to Uddalak Mukherjee of \"The Telegraph\", \"Durga Puja, with its paraphernalia of idols, immersion processions, \"pandals\", even an entire crowd of women draped in white \"saris\" with red borders, is central to the film's ... visual aesthetic.\" A review in Rediff.com praised the depiction of the festivities in Kolkata, a city well known for its celebration of Durga Puja.\n\nGhosh acknowledges the allusions to Ray's films. In one scene, Vidya asks the manager of the guest house why there is no hot water although the signboard had claimed \"running hot water\". The manager explains that the sign refers for his errand boy, who runs to deliver hot water in a kettle whenever required. This alludes to a similar scene in Ray's \"Joi Baba Felunath\" (1979). In an interview with \"The Telegraph\", Ghosh says that the way Vidya looks out and moves from window to window in the guest-house room is reminiscent of Ray's \"Charulata\" (1964), where the actress Madhabi Mukherjee enjoys glimpses of the outside world through the blinds of windows. He also acknowledges the influence of \"Mahanagar\" (1963), another Ray film noted for its portrayal of Kolkata. According to the director, he was inspired by particular scenes of Ray's \"Nayak\" (1966) to plan the portrayal of complex emotional issues between Vidya and the police officer Rana, especially Rana's awe in the presence of Vidya. Ghosh expresses his inspiration from Ray's \"Aranyer Dinratri\" (1970) in which Ray \"wanted the audience to be inside the car with the four guys all the time. So the camera never leaves the car.\" Ghosh shot a similar scene, hoping the audience would become \"like Vidya's fellow passenger.\"\n\nBesides Ray's films, Ghosh also admits inspiration from what he calls \"visually striking\" films of the 1970s and 1980s, such as \"Deewaar\" (1975). Critics have compared the fake-pregnancy twist of \"Kahaani\" with the 2004 American psychological thriller \"Taking Lives\". The sequences towards the end that explain the missing pieces of the mystery were compared with \"The Usual Suspects\" (1995). Ghosh writes that the film was heavily influenced by the colour scheme of the \"Pratima Visarjan\", a c.1915 watercolour by the Bengal School artist Gaganendranath Tagore.\n\nThe musical score was composed by Vishal–Shekhar, and the lyrics for the film's six songs were written by Vishal Dadlani, Anvita Dutt and Sandeep Srivastava. Several of R. D. Burman's Hindi and Bengali compositions were used in the background. An album of the music was released on 22 February 2012 and subsequently on the digital music platform Apple iTunes India since its inception from mid-2012.\n\nThe soundtrack received positive reviews, and was praised for its amalgamation of Bengali and Hindi lyrics. A review in CNN-IBN states that the song \"Ami Shotti Bolchi\" is able to partially convey the feel of Kolkata, and that the soundtrack \"features right voices with the overall mood of the album\". \"Mumbai Mirror\" rated the album with 3 stars out of 5. Reviewing the soundtrack for Indiatimes, Anand Vaishnav commented that \"\"Kahaani\", as an album, stays honest to the theme of the film\".\n\n\"Kahaani\"s first-look poster was launched on 2 December 2011, and the official trailer on 5 January 2012. The poster, portraying a pregnant Vidya Balan and lacking any romantic element, was well received. Critics' expectations were low, owing to the director's previous box-office failures. Vidya appeared in public with a prosthetic belly to promote the film, and mingled with the public in railway stations, bus stands and markets. She often carried a sketch of her on-screen missing husband, and asked people to help in finding him. Social-networking website Ibibo.com developed an online game, \"The Great Indian Parking Wars\", which required players to park Vidya's taxi on a street; it was well-received, reaching 50,000 hits in 10 days.\nOn 5 March 2012, prior to release, Kolkata Metro authorities objected to a scene in which Vidya is pushed by a man onto the tracks as a train arrives. They requested that the scene be removed, as it would remind people of the past suicides, which had tarnished the railway's image. The filmmakers screened the scene for the authorities and explained that nothing in the film would affect the image of the Metro or prompt people to commit suicide. Convinced, the officials withdrew their objections, and the scene was retained, although it was removed from trailers.\n\n\"Kahaani\" was released on 9 March 2012, a day after International Women's Day. It played on 1100 screens worldwide. CNN-IBN reported that although \"Kahaani\" was ready before \"The Dirty Picture\", distributors deferred its release, fearing that Vidya's role of a sexy siren (in \"The Dirty Picture\") after that of a pregnant woman might not be received well. STAR TV bought the exclusive right to broadcast the film for a price of , which was the highest-ever price paid for a female-centric film in India. The Indian television premiere of the film was on Star India's channel Movies OK on 3 June 2012. The DVD of the film was released on 17 May 2012 across all regions in a one-disc pack in NTSC format. Distributed by Shemaroo Entertainment, it contained additional content, such as behind-the-scene footage, video of celebration parties after its theatrical release, and music videos of the songs of the film. The VCD and Blu-ray versions were released at the same time.\n\n\"Kahaani\" garnered generally positive reviews from critics. According to review aggregator \"Review Gang\" the film received a rating of 7.5 out of 10, based on the reviews by professional critics. Good word of mouth publicity played a part in its popularity besides the positive reviews. \"The Telegraph\" called the film \"a mind-juggling medley of manipulation masquerading as a 'mother of a story'\". Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama gave the film 4 out of 5 stars, and praised Vidya's acting. \"The Times of India\" commented \"Once again, a 'pregnant' Vidya, ironically displays more 'male ornaments' ... than most heroes.\" The reviews in Rediff, Indo Asian News Service, CNN-IBN, Zee News, \"Hindustan Times\", and \"The Hindu\" were unanimously positive, and noted script, direction, cinematography, and acting as strong points of the film. Noted film actress and multiple National Award winner Shabana Azmi lauded Vidya for her performance,\"As an actor, I could see she [Vidya] was making all the right moves throughout the film. There was not a single artificial note in her performance.\" Russell Edwards, the reviewer for \"Variety\", praised the cast, cinematography, and direction, and commented that despite occasional glitches, the \"adroit thriller ... maintains momentum and credibility.\"\n\nMany reviewers criticised the film's climax and certain features, feeling that they deviated from its general style. Rituparna Chatterjee of CNN-IBN noted that the climax of the film was a \"huge dampener\" and explained, \"The diabolic twist at that juncture got underplayed ... What follows is a sobfest ... the apologetic explanation of why she does what she does. Justifying her action comes across more as an effort to appease the Indian morality\". The \"Outlook\" review noted, \"At times, \"Kahaani\" is too clever, at others extremely pedestrian like in the depiction of computer hacking and IB operations, not to speak of the ludicrous terrorist angle and the all-too predictable Durga Puja setting for that mythology tie-in.\" It adds that the \"spoon-feeding\" of reasons at the end dampens the intrigue factor. The review in Yahoo! India comments that the Durga metaphor at the end was enforced, and that the film over-indulged in Bengali stereotypes. Gautaman Bhaskaran, in his review in \"Gulf Times\", noted that the sometimes-handheld photography was \"as irksome as the plot with a sleuth too many and cops galore.\"\n\nThough \"Kahaani\" received critical acclaim, it was a slow starter at the box office, opening to a poor response on the first day, but gradually picking afterwards. According to \"The Telegraph\", the film earned almost from the state of West Bengal within the first three days of its release. At multiplexes in Kolkata, occupancy increased from 47% on Friday 9 March, the day of release, to 77% on 10 March and to around 97% on 11 March. Box Office India, a website on Indian film trade, reported that the film collected nearly in its first week, well beyond its production cost of . It grossed in second week to make a two-week total of around in India; this led Box Office India to declare the film a \"Super Hit\". The film was successful in the international box office as well, garnering within 10 days of its release in seven markets—UK, US, UAE, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia and Pakistan, according to Bollywood Hungama, a film-related website. By the third week, according to CNN-IBN, it had grossed , including India and overseas market. \"Hindustan Times\" reported that \"Kahaani\" made a worldwide gross of within 50 days of its release.\n\n\"Kahaani\" was nominated for, and won, many awards. The 58th Filmfare Awards nominated the film for six of their categories, where it won five, including Best Actress for Vidya and Best Director for Ghosh. \"Kahaani\" received thirteen nominations at the 19th Colors Screen Awards, and won five, including Best Actress and Best Story. At the 14th Zee Cine Awards, \"Kahaani\" won five awards, including Best Film (Critics) and Best Actress (Critics), out of fifteen nominations. At the 2013 Stardust Awards ceremony, \"Kahaani\" was announced Hottest Film of the Year while Vidya received for the Best Actress in a Thriller or Action. \"Kahaani\" was awarded the Most Entertaining Film of the Year at the 3rd ceremony of the BIG Star Entertainment Awards. At the 60th National Film Awards, Ghosh won Best Screenplay (Original), Namrata Rao won Best Editing, and Nawazuddin Siddiqui won a Special Jury award.\n\nFollowing \"Kahaani\"s success, Kolkata became a preferred destination for Bollywood filmmakers. They felt the landscapes of Mumbai and Delhi were overused for several decades, while Kolkata retained its unique visuals such as metro trains, rickety trams, hand-pulled rickshaws, dingy bylanes, palatial mansions, dilapidated houses of North Kolkata, roadside eateries, ghats of river Ganga, British-era buildings, restaurants and iconic structures and areas including Howrah Bridge, Kalighat Temple, Nakhoda Mosque, Kumortuli idol-making district and Victoria Memorial.\n\nMonalisa Guest House, the lodge which hosted Vidya Bagchi in the film, became a local attraction. Several hundreds have visited it since the film's release, to the extent that the owners planned to increase tariffs and renovate the rooms around a \"Kahaani\" theme.\n\nThe potbellied contract killer Bob Biswas became an Internet phenomenon, the subject of several jokes and pieces of pop art, which circulated through Facebook and Twitter. \"Nomoshkar, Aami Bob Biswas... Ek minute?\" (\"Hello, I am Bob Biswas... do you have a minute?\")—the monologue he repeatedly uses just before murdering his victims—was used in different memes. A graphic novel and a television show based on Bob Biswas were being planned, .\n\nTwo remakes of \"Kahaani\" were released in 2014: a Telugu remake titled \"Anaamika\", and its Tamil version \"Nee Enge En Anbe\", both directed by Sekhar Kammula and featuring Nayantara as the lead character. An English-language remake, entitled \"Deity\", will be directed by the Danish director Niels Arden Oplev and produced by Yashraj Films, with production scheduled to begin in 2015.\n\nIn March 2012, Sujoy Ghosh announced that he intended to develop \"Kahaani\" into a series. He was inspired by Satyajit Ray's \"Feluda\" detective series and wanted to continue the stories of Vidya Bagchi on similar lines, with Vidya Balan reprising the role. The shooting of \"Kahaani 2\" was scheduled to begin in 2013, but in July 2013 differences arose between Sujoy Ghosh and other co-producers. In February 2014, Vidya announced that the sequel was not happening due to these differences, but two years later, Ghosh confirmed that the film was in pre-production with Vidya set to reprise her role. The sequel, entitled \"Kahaani 2\", began filming in March 2016 with Vidya and Arjun Rampal in lead roles, and was released on 2 December 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "903169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903169", "title": "Kendall College of Art and Design", "text": "Kendall College of Art and Design\n\nKendall College of Art and Design of Ferris State University (KCAD) is a college of art and design located in downtown Grand Rapids, Michigan, founded in 1928. It offers a range of 4-year degrees in fields such as Art History, Digital Media, Fine Art, Furniture Design, Graphic Design, Illustration, Industrial Design, and Interior Design; graduate degrees in several related subjects; dual-enrollment classes for high school students; and non-credit art classes for youth and adults. \n\nA part of Ferris State University since 2000, KCAD is certified by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design, and the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\nThe college's primary offering is its four-year undergraduate program, which combines general-education courses based on a model it calls \"Pathways\", common foundational subjects, and a concentration of courses specific to each area of study, usually with a heavy studio focus. Kendall offers degrees in: Art Education (BFA), Art History: Studio (BS), Art History: Academic (BS), Collaborative Design (BFA), Digital Art and Design (BFA), Drawing (BFA), Fashion Studies (BFA), Furniture Design (BFA), Graphic Design (BFA), Illustration (BFA), Industrial Design (BFA), Interior Design (BFA), Medical Illustration (BFA), Metals/Jewelry Design (BFA), Painting (BFA), Photography (BFA), Printmaking (BFA), and Sculpture/Functional Art (BFA). There were 1,459 students enrolled at KCAD for the Fall 2013 semester.\n\nKendall offers graduate programs in several disciplines: Architecture (MArch), Art Education (MA), Certificate in Design and Innovation Management (MBA), Drawing (MFA), Painting (MFA), Photography (MFA), Printmaking (MFA), Visual and Critical Studies (MA), and Design (MA).\n\nIt offers dual-enrollment programs through several area high schools, in which students receive both high school and college credit. These classes are taught either on Kendall's campus or at high schools. As of 2018, the participating districts were: Allendale, Byron Center, Coopersville, Davison, Delton-Kellogg, Design Street Plainwell, East Lansing, Grand Blanc, Grand Ledge, Lake Orion, Northview, Troy, Vassar, and Waterford-Kettering.\n\nNon-credit courses are also offered, including general interest classes for both youth and adults, and continuing studies programs for arts professionals.\n\nThe college occupies two historic structures in downtown Grand Rapids, between Division and Ionia Avenues and Fountain and Lyon Streets. The seven-story main building contains most of the college's classroom, studio, and office space. The Woodbridge N. Ferris Building contains exhibition space, the Material ConneXion Library, and additional classroom and office space.\n\nFacilities include color and black-and-white darkrooms, photo studios, a library, galleries, an historic furniture collection, sculptural wood- and metalworking shops, a metalsmithing/jewelry design studio, digital fabrication technology such as 2 rapid prototyping systems and 4 CNC milling machines, printmaking equipment, life drawing studios, audio recording booth, 24-hour-access student studios, a coffee shop, and a bookstore with art supplies.\n\nDavid Wolcott Kendall was a nationally known furniture designer, during Grand Rapids' heyday as \"Furniture City\". The David Wolcott Memorial School was established in 1928 by the will of Helen M. Kendall, his widow. The school opened in 1931, offering a two-year program in design, with 35 students. The school was located at 145 Fountain Street, at the western edge of what is now Heritage Hill.\n\nIn 1947, growing from an influx of students following World War 2, the school's name was changed to Kendall School of Design. In 1961, having outgrown the Heritage Hill site, it relocated to 1110 College Avenue NE in the Highland Park neighborhood. In 1977, Kendall began offering baccalaureate degrees, and in 1981 was accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design. It moved again, to the seven-story Manufacturer's Building at 111 Division Avenue North (on the corner of Fountain Street, a short distance from the original site) in 1984.\n\nThe name of the school was changed in 1987 to Kendall College of Art and Design. As part of a merger with Ferris State University, the college bought the adjacent Interstate Building in the 1990s, constructing an atrium which became the combined structures' main entrance at 17 Fountain Street NW. In 2000 the school became formally Kendall College of Art and Design of Ferris State University, and it continued renovating the new space for studio and classroom use. After the Grand Rapids Art Museum moved out of the Federal Building to the north, the university took ownership of it and reopened it as the Woodbridge N. Ferris Building in 2012 as part of the Kendall campus. In 2013, the college merged with the Urban Institute for Contemporary Art, which had recently relocated to a new facility a few blocks to the south, and continues to operate as an arts organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "44095094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44095094", "title": "Kill the Messenger (Schou book)", "text": "Kill the Messenger (Schou book)\n\nKill the Messenger: How the CIA's Crack-cocaine Controversy Destroyed Journalist Gary Webb (New York: Nation Books, 2006) is a biography of investigative journalist Gary Webb, focusing on his 1996 \"Dark Alliance\" investigative series in the \"San Jose Mercury News\". The series linked the 1980s' crack cocaine trade in the United States and the CIA-backed Nicaraguan Contras.\n\n\"Kill the Messenger\" was adapted into a 2014 film by the same name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50074084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50074084", "title": "Kuthyas Kawejan", "text": "Kuthyas Kawejan\n\nKuthyas Kawejan ( Sindhi ڪٺيس ڪويڄن ) is a book on literary criticism in Sindhi language written by renowned Sindhi critic Mubarak Ali Lashari. It is published by Sambara Publication, Hyderabad in March 2016. It is divided into two sections, Criticism and Literature.The Criticism section contains fourteen scholarly articles whereas Literary section contains eight articles on different topics.\n\nSindhi literature\n"}
{"id": "12215449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12215449", "title": "Lamps Plus", "text": "Lamps Plus\n\nLAMPS PLUS, Inc., is a privately held corporation that designs, manufactures, and sells portable lighting, fixture lighting, home décor items and a variety of other related products. Its worldwide headquarters is located in the Chatsworth district of the San Fernando Valley region of the city of Los Angeles, California.\n\nThe company was founded in 1976 in Los Angeles by President and CEO Dennis Swanson and his wife, Vice President and Designer Manja Swanson. From lamp design and manufacture, the company moved into retail and is now a full multi-channel retailer and the largest specialty lighting company in the United States. LAMPS PLUS maintains international offices and manufacturing plants, and its website was picked as one of the top fifty retail websites by Internet Retailer magazine in 2004. The company has made the top 200 of the list every year it has been published. In 2011, the Lamps Plus catalog app was selected as winner of the RIS Mobile App of the Year award for customer experience. In addition, Lamps Plus is a member of the Better Business Bureau. The company and Dennis Swanson hold several patents for lighting design, including a torchiere floor lamp design with two adjustable side lights and a lamp having a low light level replaceable bulb. Dennis Swanson has also served as past President of the American Lighting Association. The company has worked with a number of industry designers and personalities, including industrial pattern designer Stacy Garcia, furniture and lighting designer Sergio Orozco, lighting designer Robert Sonneman, artist Thomas Kinkade, and the Los Angeles pop artist Ragnar.\n\nOriginally the company was called Lamps R Us till they were sued by Toys \"Я\" Us for infringement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54494466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54494466", "title": "Lesley Arfin", "text": "Lesley Arfin\n\nLesley Arfin (born 1978) is an American comedy writer and author.\n\nArfin was born to a Jewish family in 1978 in Long Island, New York. She studied at Hampshire College.\n\nIn 2007, her book \"Dear Diary\", based on a column she wrote for \"Vice\" magazine, was published by Vice Books. In 2008, she became the editor-in-chief of \"Missbehave\".\n\nArfin went on to become a staff writer for the HBO TV series \"Girls\".\n\nFrom there, she worked on the TV series \"Brooklyn Nine-Nine\". Arfin received sole writing credit for the Halloween-themed episode in the first season.\n\nWith Paul Rust and Judd Apatow, she created the Netflix series \"Love\". Arfin drew on her own past in dealing with alcohol addiction while writing for \"Love\".\n\nArfin wrote about being addicted to heroin and going into rehab in her book \"Dear Diary\".\n\nIn 2012, Arfin was criticised for a lack of awareness of white privilege after she wrote a tweet regarding the criticism of the lack of diversity in \"Girls\", stating \"What really bothered me most about \"Precious\" was that there was no representation of ME\".\n\nArfin married American actor and writer Paul Rust in 2015. In October 2017, she gave birth to their daughter, Mary James.\n\n"}
{"id": "3263163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3263163", "title": "List of books about video games", "text": "List of books about video games\n\nThe following is a list of books about video games, which range from development, theory, history, to art books.\n\n\n\nThe following are taken from Recommended Reading lists in the \"Centennial College Seminar Series: The Video Game Industry Lecture Series\" handouts (2005):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38688719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38688719", "title": "List of video game crowdfunding projects", "text": "List of video game crowdfunding projects\n\nThe following is a list of notable video game projects (in hardware, software, and related media) that have embarked upon crowdfunding campaigns. Only when the amount raised is highlighted in green did the project receive those funds.\n\n"}
{"id": "46886079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46886079", "title": "Mairzee Almas", "text": "Mairzee Almas\n\nMairzee Almas is a Canadian television director. Her credits include \"Smallville\", \"Lost Girl\", \"Beauty & the Beast\" and the North American adaptation of \"Being Human\". Prior to this, she worked as an assistant director on film and television.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13837178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13837178", "title": "Mikhailovsky Theatre", "text": "Mikhailovsky Theatre\n\nThe Mikhailovsky Theatre () is one of Russia's oldest opera and ballet houses. It was founded in 1833 and is situated in a historical building on 1, Arts Square in Saint Petersburg. It is named after Grand Duke Michael Pavlovich of Russia.\n\nThe theatre was established in 1833 by decree of Tsar Nicholas I.\n\nBefore the 1917 Revolution, the Mikhailovsky did not have its own resident company. Performances were given either by a French company, hired by the Russian Imperial Theatres, or at the end of the century by the Mariinsky Theatre and Alexandrinsky Theatre companies. Most of the great French actors of the period performed at the theatre, including Jeanne Sylvanie Arnould-Plessy, Rachel Félix, Lucien Guitry and Sarah Bernhardt, as well as singers such as Hortense Schneider. Both classical and contemporary authors and composers had their works produced to great acclaim in French. Plays by Molière, Victor Hugo, Victorien Sardou, and Alexandre Dumas, fils and operettas by Jacques Offenbach were praised by the intelligentsia and the Russian aristocracy, such as Tolstoy and Tchaikovsky.\n\nWhen the Bolsheviks took power the French company was forced to leave Russia, and in 1917 the Mikhailovsky Theatre was closed.\n\nOn March 6, 1918 the theatre was reopened as an opera theatre. Shortly afterwards the Mikhailovsky started changing its names: in 1918–20 it was called the Ex-Mikhailovsky Theatre, in 1920 it was renamed to the State Academic Comic Opera Theatre, in 1921 the theatre changed its name to the Maly Operny Teatr (Maly Opera Theatre), in 1926 it got the name of the Leningrad State Academic Maly Opera Theatre, MALEGOT for short. New management and artists followed. From 1920 to 1930 the Maly Operny Teatr established itself as one of the leading experimental stages in Russian new musical theatre. Shostakovich made his debut at the Maly Operny: Samuil Samosud conducted world premiere performances of his \"The Nose\" and \"Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District\", the famous Vsevolod Meyerhold production of \"The Queen of Spades\" was staged there, and the world premiere of Prokofiev's epic opera \"War and Peace\" took place on the theatre's stage on June 12, 1946.\n\nIn 1930s Russian choreographer Fyodor Lopukhov founded the ballet company of the Theatre. The first ballet premiere, \"Harlequinade\", choreographed by Lopukhov, took place on June 6, 1933.\n\nFrom 1989 to 2007, the theatre bore the name of Modest Mussorgsky, subsequently returning to its original name the Mikhailovsky Theatre.\n\nIn 2007, in what was seen as a controversial move, Russian businessman Vladimir Kekhman was appointed as General Director of the theatre. Vladimir Kekhman's strategy was to spend prolific amounts of money on ballet stars to build the Theatre's popularity.\n\nHe built a business-based organizational structures to the Ballet, donated 1 billion roubles ($40m US) for renovation of the building, and invited Elena Obraztsova and Farouk Ruzimatov to coordinate the artistic revival of the Mikhailovsky. In 2007, Elena Obraztsova was appointed Artistic Director of the Mikhailovsky Opera and Farouk Ruzimatov became Artistic Director of the Mikhailovsky Ballet. However, Obraztsova resigned in 2008 and Ruzimatov in 2009. From 2009 both Obraztsova and Ruzimatov held a seat on the Artistic Committee of the Theatre.\n\nThe ballet company of the Mikhailovsky Theatre made its London debut in July 2008 in London Coliseum arranged by the British ex-dancer Gavin Roebuck. This season helped bring the company international recognition and led to a nomination for the Best Foreign Dance Company Award at the National Dance Awards in 2008, though Mikhailovsky lost out to the New York City Ballet.\n\nIn March 2009, Mikhail Messerer was appointed Ballet Master in Chief of the Theater. For the Mikhailovsky, Messerer staged numerous ballets, including \"Swan Lake\", \"Don Quixote\", \"Flames of Paris\", \"Laurencia\", \"Cinderella\" and \"Le Corsaire\". In 2009 - 2011 Peter Feranec was the Theatre's Musical Director. Mikhail Tatarnikov began his tenure as the Theatre’s musical director in 2012 (he resigned in October 2018). The Mikhailovsky Ballet returned to London in 2010, again arranged with Gavin Roebuck.\nFrom 2011 till 2013 Nacho Duato worked as the Mikhailovsky Ballet's Artistic Director, with Messerer as the Theatre's Ballet Master in Chief. Several of Duato ballets received their world premieres at the Mikhailovsky.\n\nUnder Mikhail Messerer's leadership the Mikhailovsky Ballet has won the Best Ballet Company award by the British Critics' Circle for it's 3rd London season in 2013. \nAlso in 2013, the Mikhailovsky Opera made its debut at the Savonlinna Opera Festival, and, in November 2014, the Mikhailovsky Ballet debuted in the US at New York's Lincoln Center.\n\nIn October 2012, Vladimir Kekhman was declared bankrupt at London's High Court of Justice, but he assured that the operation of the Mikhailovsky Theatre was not at risk. In April 2013, top ballet dancer Natalia Osipova left the company to join The Royal Ballet in London, after she had made the headlines in December 2011 for choosing the Mikhailosky Theatre over the Bolshoi Theatre.\n\nIn December 2013, Altynai Asylmuratova became Adviser to General Director of the Theatre (she resigned in March 2014). In 2013 Vasily Barkhatov was appointed Artistic Director of the Mikhailovsky Opera (he resigned in 2014). In 2014 Vasily Petrenko became the Theatre's Principal Guest Conductor (he resigned in 2015).\nIn 2015, the tenor Neil Shicoff was appointed Chief of the Mikhailovsky Opera,\nand from July 2017 till July 2018, the bass Paata Burchuladze was the Chief of the Mikhailovsky Opera.\n\nMikhail Messerer resigned from the Theatre in September 2018.\n\nPrincipals\n\"Ballerinas\"\n\n\"Men\"\n\nFirst Soloists\n\"Women\"\n\n\"Men\"\n\nSecond Soloists\n\"Women\"\n\n\"Men\"\n\nCoryphees\n\"Women\"\n\n\n\"Men\"\n\n\nCorps de Ballet\nRepetiteurs\n\nRepertoire\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20830828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20830828", "title": "National Society of Mural Painters", "text": "National Society of Mural Painters\n\nThe National Society of Mural Painters (NSMP) is an American artists' organization originally known as The Mural Painters. The charter of the society is to advance the techniques and standards for the design and execution of mural art for the enrichment of architecture in the United States. \n\nThe NSMP was founded in 1895, in an era of Beaux-Arts architecture in America, a time when public architecture was integrated with murals, sculpture, mosaics and other artwork, coordinated and themed to assert the identity of the building. Parallel organizations associated with the same principles of integrated public art include the National Sculpture Society, which originally included a large percentage of architectural sculptors, and the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design, founded in 1916 as the teaching wing of the Society of Beaux-Arts Architects.\n\nStill in existence after more than a hundred years, the society presents exhibitions and organizes competitions. The NSMP is a member of the Fine Arts Federation of New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39462053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39462053", "title": "Nude photography (art)", "text": "Nude photography (art)\n\nFine art nude photography is a genre of fine-art photography which depicts the nude human body with an emphasis on form, composition, emotional content, and other aesthetic qualities.\n\nThe nude has been a prominent subject of photography since its invention, and played an important role in establishing photography as a fine art medium.\n\nThe distinction between fine art photography and other subgenres is not absolute, but there are certain defining characteristics.\n\nErotic interest, although often present, is secondary, which distinguishes art photography from both glamour photography, which focuses on showing the subject of the photograph in the most attractive way, and pornographic photography, which has the primary purpose of sexually arousing the viewer. Fine art photographs are also not taken to serve any journalistic, scientific, or other practical purpose.\n\nThe distinction between these is not always clear, and photographers, as with other artists, tend to make their own case in characterizing their work, though the viewer may have a different assessment.\n\nThe nude remains a controversial subject in all media, but more so with photography due to its inherent realism. The male nude has been less common than the female, and more rarely exhibited or published.\n\nThe use of children as subjects in nude photography is especially controversial.\n\nThose early photographers in Western cultures who sought to establish photography as a fine art medium, frequently chose women as the subjects for their nude photographs, in poses that accorded with traditional nudes in other media. Before nude photography, art nudes usually used allusions to classical antiquity; gods and warriors, goddesses and nymphs. Depictions of male and female nudes in traditional art mediums had been mostly limited to portrayals as an ideal warrior or athlete (for men) or that emphasized divinity and reproduction (for women), and early photographic art first engaged these archetypes as well. Poses, lighting, soft focus, vignetting and hand retouching were employed to create photographic images that rose to the level of art comparable to the other arts at that time. The main limitation was that early photographs were monochrome. Although 19th century artists in other media often used photographs as substitutes for live models, the best of these photographs were also intended as works of art in their own right.\n\nNude photography was more controversial than painted nude works, and in order to avoid censorship some early nude photographs were described as \"studies for artists\", while others were used as references by artists to do drawings and paintings as a supplement to live models. Eugène Delacroix was an early adopter of the practice of using photographs taken specifically for him by his friend, Eugène Durieu. Edgar Degas made his own photographs that he used for painting references.\n\nAs fine art photography first embraced and then moved passed classical allegorical imagery, both male and female photographers began to use the male nude as another medium to examine issues of representation and identity, sexuality and voyeurism.\n\nPhotographing nudes (and particularly male nudes) became a way for women artists to engage the subject of “the nude” from the position of power traditionally reserved for male artists; alternatively, nude self-portraiture allowed men to begin to re-evaluate accepted definitions of sensuality and masculinity by photographing themselves.\n\nAlfred Stieglitz is a major figure in bringing modern art to America by exhibiting the new genre of art in his New York galleries at the beginning of the 20th century. He is known to the public perhaps more for his relationship with Georgia O'Keeffe, whose nude photos he exhibited in 1921 while married to someone else. \"Stieglitz used the camera as a kind of mirror. 'My photographs,' he wrote in 1925, 'are ever born of an inner need--an Experience of Spirit. I do not make \"pictures . . .\" I have a vision of life and I try to find equivalents for it sometimes in the form of photographs.' Often he would write of \"true seeing\" and of \"inness\". As O'Keeffe noted rightly, the man she knew so well was 'always photographing himself.'\"\n\nImogen Cunningham began taking photographs in Seattle in 1905, in the soft-focused \"pictorialist\" style popular at that time; but she is best known for the sharp-focused modern style she developed later. She is also attributed as the first woman photographer to take a nude photo of a man (her husband, Roi Partridge). In the work of Judy Dater, one particular photo, \"Imogen and Twinka\", became one of the most recognizable images caught by an American photographer. It features a 91 year old Imogen Cunningham and a nude Twinka Thiebaud. The photo was the first adult full frontal nude photograph published in \"Life\" magazine, in 1976.\n\nAfter World War I, avant-garde photographers became more experimental in their portrayal of nudity, using reflective distortions and printing techniques to create abstractions or depicting real life rather than classical allusions.\n\nBeginning in the late 1920s Man Ray experimented with the Sabattier, or solarization process, a technique that won him critical esteem, especially from the Surrealists. Many of the central figures of Surrealism—Breton, Magritte, Dalí—followed his example in using photography in addition to other media. Other photographers, such as Maurice Tabard and Raoul Ubac, were directly inspired by Man Ray’s techniques, while photographers such as André Kertész and Brassaï were indirectly influenced by his innovative approach to the medium.\n\nEdward Weston evolved a particularly American aesthetic, using a large format camera to capture images of nature and landscapes as well as nudes, establishing photography as a fine arts medium. In 1937 Weston became the first photographer to be awarded a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship. For a famous example of Weston's work see: Charis Wilson.\n\nBill Brandt is best known for a series of nudes developed primarily between 1945 and 1961, that are both personal and universal, sensual and strange, collectively exemplifying the “sense of wonder” that is paramount in his photographs. Brandt’s work is unpredictable not only in the range of his subjects but also in his printing style, which varied widely throughout his career. This exhibition is the first to emphasize the beauty of Brandt’s finest prints, and to trace the arc of their evolution.\n\nMany fine art photographers have a variety of subjects in their work, the nude being one. Diane Arbus was attracted to unusual people in unusual settings, including a nudist camp. Lee Friedlander had more conventional subjects, one being Madonna as a young model.\n\nThe distinction between fine art and glamour is often one of marketing, with fine art being sold through galleries or dealers in limited editions signed by the artist, and glamour photos being distributed through mass media.\n\nFor some, the difference is in the gaze of the model, with glamour models looking into the camera, while art models do not.\n\nGlamour and fashion photographers have aspired to fine art status in some of their work. One of the first was Irving Penn, who progressed from \"Vogue\" magazine to photographing fashion models such as Kate Moss nude. Richard Avedon, Helmut Newton and Annie Leibovitz have followed a similar path with portraits of the famous, many of them nude. or partially clothed. In the post-modern era, where fame is often the subject of fine art, Avedon's photo of Nastassja Kinski with a python, and Leibovitz's magazine covers of Demi Moore pregnant and in body paint, have become iconic. The work of Joyce Tenneson has gone the other way, from fine art with a unique, soft-focus style showing woman at all stages of life to portraiture of famous people and fashion photography.\n\nAlthough nude photographers have largely worked within established forms that show bodies as sculptural abstractions, some, such as Robert Mapplethorpe, have created works that deliberately blur the boundaries between erotica and art.\n\nSeveral photographers have become controversial because of their nude photographs of underage subjects. David Hamilton often used erotic themes, but Jock Sturges celebrates the beauty of people in naturist settings without emphasis on sexuality. Sally Mann was raised in rural Virginia, in a locale were skinny-dipping in a river was common, so many of her most famous photographs are of her own children swimming in the nude. Less well-known photographers have been charged as criminals for photos of their own children.\n\nBody image has become a topic explored by many photographers working with models whose bodies do not conform to conventional prejudices about beauty.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century, it has become difficult to make an artistic statement in nude photography, given the proliferation of non-artistic and pornographic images which taints the subject in the perception of most viewers, limiting the opportunities to exhibit or publish the images. When they appear in mainstream consumer magazines such as \"Popular Photography\", \"PC Photo\", and \"Shutterbug\"; the editors receive sufficient negative response that they tend to reject the work of serious nude-image photographers.\n\nSeveral photographers have become controversial because of their nude photographs of underage subjects. David Hamilton often used erotic themes in books such as \"The Age of Innocence\", which have caused controversy in both the US and the UK. Jock Sturges celebrates the beauty of people in naturist settings and states that his work is not exploitative; however in 1990 the FBI raided his studio and made charges that were later dismissed. However, due to the local nature of US laws on the issue, books of both Hamilton's and Sturges' photos have been ruled obscene in the states of Alabama, South Carolina, and Colorado. A similar controversy emerged in Australia in 2008 when photographs by Bill Henson were taken from an exhibit due to complaints regarding nudes of a thirteen-year-old girl, but no changes were proved.\n\nSally Mann was raised in rural Virginia, in a locale where skinny-dipping in a river was common, so many of her most famous photographs are of her own children swimming in the nude. Less well-known photographers have been charged as criminals for photos of their own children. Some writers characterize many of these images as sexualizing children regardless of artistic merit.\n\nBody image has become a topic explored by many photographers working with models who do not conform to conventional ideas about beauty. Leonard Nimoy, after many years photographing conventionally beautiful professional models, realized that he was not capturing individual personalities, so he created a series with women interested in \"Fat Liberation\". Sally Mann's more recent nudes have been of her husband, whose body shows the effects of muscular dystrophy.\n\nMany contemporary artists push the boundaries by having work with both aesthetic qualities and explicit sexuality. Late in his life Robert Mapplethorpe created work that was controversial in part by being on display in Washington, DC in a gallery receiving public funds. When a Mapplethorpe retrospective opened at the Cincinnati Contemporary Arts Center in 1990, Dennis Barrie became the first American museum director to be criminally prosecuted for the contents of an exhibition. Although explicit photos were placed in a separate room with a content warning, Barrie was charged with \"pandering obscenity\" and showing minors in a state of nudity, but a jury acquitted Barrie and the Arts Center of all charges.\n\n\nGeneral\n\nFemale\nMale\n"}
{"id": "50474044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50474044", "title": "Ourboox", "text": "Ourboox\n\nOurboox is a free online platform for creating and sharing ebooks that incorporate text, images, videos, puzzles, maps and quizzes.\n\nThe Ourboox platform enables users to add text in any language that is compatible with html5, to add artwork in jpeg, png, or gif formats, and to embed various media content from other websites, e.g. YouTube, Vimeo, SoundCloud and others.\n\nEach e-book is identified by its own URL, and can be edited by the author even after it is published. The content on Ourboox is not protected by digital rights management (DRM), and can thus be readily indexed and searched by various search engines.\n\nA feature of Ourboox is the use of a page-flipping script, which emulates printed books. This feature is suited for either direction of reading – right-to-left and left-to-right.\n\nOurboox has gained popularly among teachers and students, and currently has over 16000 books in 24 languages and 94 genres as of February 2017. It was established by Mel Rosenberg and Ran Shternin, and was launched in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "56710816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56710816", "title": "Palace of Karabakh Khans", "text": "Palace of Karabakh Khans\n\nPalace of Karabakh Khans (), is a historic palace located in north-east part of Shusha, Azerbaijan. The palace belongs to the highly artistic palace buildings of Azerbaijan of the 18th and 19th centuries. It is currently in ruined condition.\nThe palace consisted of a large number of rooms located on two floors, and a large T-shaped main hall, which was the compositional center of the entire palace. This hall was separated from the external space by enormous lifting windows-web, widely used in palace, residential and religious construction in the 18th and 19th centuries on the territory of modern Republic of Azerbaijan. \n\n"}
{"id": "16774696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16774696", "title": "Pouran Derakhshandeh", "text": "Pouran Derakhshandeh\n\nPourān Derakh'shandeh () (born 27 March 1951 in Kermanshah, Iran) is an Iranian film director, producer, screen writer, and researcher.\n\nDerakh'shandeh graduated in film directing in 1975 from Advanced School of Television and Cinema (مدرسه عالی تلویزیون و سینما) in Tehran. She started her professional career by making documentary films for the Kermanshah Television and subsequently for the Tehran Television. Her motion pictures include \"Relationship\" (1986), \"A Little Bird of Happiness\" (1987), \"Passing Through the Dust\" (1988), \"Lost Time\" (1989), \"A Love Without Frontier\" (1998), \"Candle in the Wind\" (2003), \"Wet Dream\" (2005), \"Eternal Children\" (2006), and \"Hush! Girls Don't Scream\" (2013).\n\nAt the time she began working at NIRT and Produced “Plague”; A documentary about plague disease in Kurdistan Province. Next year, she produced a documentary about the \"Last Wednesday of the Year\" ceremony custom in some areas of Iran, “End Wednesday” (1976). In 1978 she directed “Mineral Springs of Rah Haraz” and a trilogy documentary series about handicrafts in Kurdistan titled, “Moj, janamaz and sajadeh”, “Nazok kari” and “Short–napped coarse carpet”. The four-part “Synthetic and Natural Fiber” was a research documentary about thread, worsted cotton, silk and synthetic fiber. During 1979-1980, Derakhshandeh produced “The Wheels Whirl”. It examines economic and social depression and closed manufactures like Iran National. “Shokaran” focused on addiction. The 17-part documentary explores difficulties for women, men and children who are addicted to drugs, drug smuggling, and means of preventing drug abuse. The production lasted from 1980 to 1982.\n\n\n\nDerakhshandeh has also led some college research.\n\nWith the support of Farabi Cinema Foundation, Derakhshandeh participates at some local and international film festivals :\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10557067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10557067", "title": "RUCAPS", "text": "RUCAPS\n\nRUCAPS (Riyadh University Computer Aided Production System) was a computer aided design (CAD) system for architects, first developed during the 1970s and 1980s, and today credited as a forerunner of Building Information Modelling (BIM). It ran on minicomputers from Prime Computer and Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC).\n\nThe system was initially developed by two graduates of Liverpool University, Dr John Davison and John Watts in the early 1970s. They took their work to architects Gollins Melvin Ward (GMW Architects) in London in the late 1970s, and developed it whilst working on a project for Riyadh University. It became the Really Universal Computer Aided Production System (RUCAPS), and from 1977 was sold through GMW Computers Ltd in several countries worldwide. The term 'building model' (in the sense of BIM as used today) was first used in papers in the mid-1980s: in a 1985 paper by Simon Ruffle, and later in a 1986 paper by Robert Aish - then at GMW Computers - referring to the software's use at London's Heathrow Airport.\n\nRUCAPS was a significant milestone in the development of building modellers, selling many hundreds of copies during the early 1980s when CAD was rare and expensive, and introducing thousands of architects to computer aided design. It is regarded as a forerunner to today's BIM software, and is seen by some writers, e.g.: Jerry Laiserin, as the inspiration behind Autodesk's Revit:\n\nRUCAPS was superseded in the mid-late 1980s by Sonata, developed by Jonathan Ingram. This was sold to T2 Solutions (renamed from GMW Computers in 1987), which was eventually bought by Alias|Wavefront but then \"disappeared in a mysterious, corporate black hole, somewhere in eastern Canada in 1992.\" Ingram then went on to develop Reflex, bought out by Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) in 1996.\n\nIn 1984, RUCAPS was described as a 2½ dimensional interactive system, closer to the philosophy of 2D interactive systems such as ARK/2 or DAISY, and concentrating on the rapid production of 2D drawings (plans, elevations and sections). During the early 1980s, Ingram worked on a supplementary 3D file structure for RUCAPS, where, by running a separate program and with manual intervention, a flat 3D file could be generated, allowing the production of perspectives and images. RUCAPS did carry the 'weather vane' concept from UK-based Applied Research's Building Design System, BDS, now found in most modern BIM systems, but did not have interactive 3D windows or rule-based language - core characteristics of today's BIM applications.\n\nRUCAPS was a building modelling system. It used the concept, introduced by BDS, of 2½ dimensional representation of components, straddling the divide between two dimensions (2D, i.e. flat) and three (3D). Here, all the elements of the design were placed in space in three dimensions, but each element, such as a window, door, chair or wall, was modelled in a series of 2D views. These views were of the plan and two elevations, each of which were drawn conventionally, as though on the side of a glass box. The \"box\" was then moved about the design and placed. By looking down on the model the plan view of the whole model was visible, and from the side just the elevation was seen. Because moving the component, or \"box\", moved both the plan view and the elevations for it, the plans and elevations remained in harmony, and designer's time was saved.\n\nRUCAPS consisted of 38 different programs. For example, there was a program to generate the geometry for building components, another to assemble them into groups, and another to assemble those sub-assemblies into a model of the building. A dozen or more modules took care of printing, copying of floors, printing schedules, and so on. In the way of the time, the user directed operations by calling up the relevant program module rather than, as today, selecting from a menu.\n\nA large computer screen displayed the building model. The screen, or sometimes two screens, was controlled from a keyboard for launching programs, and typing in coordinate data. Basic components were given several 2D views, from the top and sides. The information was usually coded onto A4 sheets of paper, and typed in as a series of coordinates. Once available to use in the building module, the components would be located using a large digitizer. This permitted a base drawing to be taped down, and used for locating the new components. The screen was then used to help ensure accuracy.\n\nAlong the bottom of the digitizer was a template with commands which could be selected as required, so the keyboard was often not required. Assembly was aided for many users by the familiar look of the large digitizer, which looked much like the drawing boards common at the time. To aid the process of aclimatistion, the digitizer was used with an electronic pen, which made placing components both quick and accurate.\n\nMIni computers were used to power the system. Initially single-user, the system soon graduated to larger computers that could handle eight or more workstations simultaneously. The nature of building modeling systems is that very little information needs to be transferred from the database to the workstation, so performance levels were good despite what looks like limited equipment. Most early display screens were monochrome, but later RUCAPS systems were colour. All were using vector graphics, which was a step up from the earlier storage tubes. Plotters were large format and pen based, using amid of roller ball pens and Rotring wet ink pens of several thicknesses and colour.\n\nRUCAPS was expensive, as was all CAD at the time, so its use was confined to large building projects. It was then necessary to have several people working on the same model. An early multi-user system was developed, allowing single building models to be worked on simultaneously by many people. It was a system that employed layers, where components were allocated categories allowing groups of them to be switched off or on when the drawings were produced. Layering allowed, for example, drainage to be printed separately from electrical components, but still maintained on the single model. No 3D was available in RUCAPS though a totally separate 3D modelling and perspective hidden-line program called AUTOPROD written by Col. Nigel Hitch was sold alongside RUCAP. There was no database or modelling connection of any sort between RUCAPS and AUTOPROD.\n\nNo clash-detection or calculations were undertaken on the model, but some hiding of one component by another was possible so that external walls showed on elevations while the internal elements were concealed in a 2½D fashion.\n"}
{"id": "11087023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11087023", "title": "Rosaline", "text": "Rosaline\n\nRosaline () is an unseen character and niece of Lord Capulet in William Shakespeare's tragedy \"Romeo and Juliet\" (1597). Although silent, her role is important. Romeo is at first deeply in love with Rosaline and expresses his dismay at her not loving him back. Romeo first spots Juliet while trying to catch a glimpse of Rosaline at a gathering hosted by the Capulet family.\n\nScholars generally compare Romeo's short-lived love of Rosaline with his later love of Juliet. The poetry Shakespeare writes for Rosaline is much weaker than that for Juliet. Scholars believe Romeo's early experience with Rosaline prepares him for his relationship with Juliet. Later performances of \"Romeo and Juliet\" have painted different pictures of Romeo and Rosaline's relationship, as filmmakers have experimented with making Rosaline a more visible character.\n\nBefore Romeo meets Juliet, he loves Rosaline, Capulet's niece and Juliet's cousin. He describes her as wonderfully beautiful: \"The all-seeing sun / ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.\" Rosaline, however, chooses to remain chaste; Romeo says: \"She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow / Do I live dead that live to tell it now.\" This is the source of his depression, and he makes his friends unhappy; Mercutio comments: \"That same pale, hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline, torments him so that he will sure run mad.\" Benvolio urges Romeo to sneak into a Capulet gathering where, he claims, Rosaline will look like \"a crow\" alongside the other beautiful women. Romeo agrees, but doubts Benvolio's assessment. After Romeo sees Juliet his feelings suddenly change: \"Did my heart love till now? Forswear it, sight / For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.\" Because their relationship is sudden and secret, Romeo's friends and Friar Laurence continue to speak of his affection for Rosaline throughout much of the play.\n\nRosaline is a variant of Rosalind, a name of Old French origin: (\"hros\" = \"horse\", \"lind\" = \"soft, tender\"). When it was imported into English it was thought to be from the Latin \"rosa linda\" (\"lovely rose\"). Romeo sees Rosaline as the embodiment of the rose because of her name and her apparent perfections. The name Rosaline commonly appears in Petrarchan sonnets, a form of poetry Romeo uses to woo Juliet and to describe both Rosaline and Juliet. Since Rosaline is unattainable, she is a perfect subject for this style; but Romeo's attempt at it is forced and weak. By the time he meets Juliet his poetic ability has improved considerably.\n\nGender studies critics have argued that Rosaline's name suggests that Romeo never really forgets her but rather replaces her with Juliet. Thus, when Juliet cries \"What's in a name? A rose by any other name would smell as sweet,\" she is ironically expressing Romeo's own view of her as a substitute for Rosaline. That is to say, Rosaline, replaced in name only by Juliet, is just as sweet to Romeo. Gender critics also note that the arguments used to dissuade Romeo from pursuing Rosaline are similar to the themes of Shakespeare's procreation sonnets. In these sonnets Shakespeare urges the man (who can be equated with Romeo) to find a woman with whom to procreate—a duty he owes to society. Rosaline, it seems, is distant and unavailable except in the mind, similarly bringing no hope of offspring. As Benvolio argues, she is best replaced by someone who will reciprocate. Rosaline reveals similarities to the subject of the sonnets when she refuses to break her vow of chastity. Her name may be referred to in the first sonnet when the young man is described as \"beauties Rose.\" This line ties the young man to both Rosaline and Romeo in Juliet's \"What's in a name?\" soliloquy. When Juliet says \"...that which we call a rose / By any other name would smell as sweet\", she may be raising the question of whether there is any difference between the beauty of a man and the beauty of a woman.\n\nRosaline is used as a name for only one other Shakespearean character—the one of the main female figures in \"Love's Labours Lost\" (1598), although Rosalin\"d\" is the name of the main female character in \"As You Like It\". Scholars have found similarities between them: both are described as beautiful, and both have a way of avoiding men's romantic advances. Rosaline in \"Love's Labours Lost\" constantly rebuffs her suitor's advances and Romeo's Rosaline remains distant and chaste in his brief descriptions of her. These similarities have led some to wonder whether they are based on a woman Shakespeare actually knew, possibly the Dark Lady described in his sonnets, but there is no strong evidence of this connection.\n\nAnalysts note that Rosaline acts as a plot device, by motivating Romeo to sneak into the Capulet party where he will meet Juliet. Without her, their meeting would be unlikely. Rosaline thus acts as the impetus to bring the \"star-cross'd lovers\" to their deaths—she is crucial in shaping their fate (a common theme of the play). Ironically, she remains oblivious of her role.\n\nLiterary critics often compare Romeo's love for Rosaline with his feelings for Juliet. Some see Romeo's supposed love for Rosaline as childish as compared with his true love for Juliet. Others argue that the apparent difference in Romeo's feelings shows Shakespeare's improving skill. Since Shakespeare is thought to have written early drafts of the play in 1591, and then picked them up again in 1597 to create the final copy, the change in Romeo's language for Rosaline and Juliet may mirror Shakespeare's increased skill as a playwright: the younger Shakespeare describing Rosaline, and the more experienced describing Juliet. In this view, a careful look at the play reveals that Romeo's love for Rosaline is not as petty as usually imagined.\n\nCritics also note the ways in which Romeo's relationship with Rosaline prepares him for meeting Juliet. Before meeting Rosaline, Romeo despises all Capulets, but afterwards looks upon them more favourably. He experiences the dual feelings of hate and love in the one relationship. This prepares him for the more mature relationship with Juliet—one fraught by the feud between Montagues and Capulets. Romeo expresses the conflict of love and hate in Act 1, Scene 1, comparing his love for Rosaline with the feud between the two houses:\n\nPsychoanalytic critics see signs of repressed childhood trauma in Romeo's love for Rosaline. She is of a rival house and is sworn to chastity. Thus he is in an impossible situation, one which will continue his trauma if he remains in it. \nAlthough he acknowledges its ridiculous nature, he refuses to stop loving her. Psychoanalysts view this as a re-enactment of his failed relationship with his mother. Rosaline's absence is symbolic of his mother's absence and lack of affection for him. Romeo's love for Juliet is similarly hopeless, for she is a Capulet and Romeo pursues his relationship with her; the difference being that Juliet reciprocates. This does not seem likely seeing as his mother died of grief after his banishment, indicating that she probably loved him deeply.\n\nRosaline has been portrayed in various ways over the centuries. Theophilus Cibber's 1748 version of \"Romeo and Juliet\" replaced references to Rosaline with references to Juliet. This, according to critics, took out the \"love at first sight\" moment at the Capulet feast. In the 1750s, actor and theatre director David Garrick also eliminated references to Rosaline from his performances, as many saw Romeo's quick replacement of her as immoral. However, in Franco Zeffirelli's 1968 film version of \"Romeo and Juliet\", Romeo sees Rosaline (played by Paola Tedesco) first at the Capulet feast and then Juliet, of whom he becomes immediately enamoured. This scene suggests that love is short and superficial. Rosaline also appears in Renato Castellani's 1954 film version. In a brief non-Shakespearean scene, Rosaline (Dagmar Josipovitch) gives Romeo a mask at Capulet's celebration, and urges him to leave disguised before harm comes to him. Other filmmakers keep Rosaline off-camera in stricter accordance with Shakespeare's script. Rosaline also appears in the 2013 film adaptation of Romeo & Juliet.\n\nRobert Nathan's 1966 romantic comedy, \"Juliet in Mantua\", presents Rosaline as a fully developed character. In this sequel, in which Romeo and Juliet did \"not\" die, the pair live ten years later in exile in Mantua. After they are forgiven and return to Verona, they learn that Rosaline is now married to County Paris, and both couples must confront their disillusionment with their marriages. Another play, \"After Juliet\", written by Scottish playwright Sharman Macdonald, tells the story of Rosaline after Romeo dies. A main character in this play, she struggles with her loss and turns away the advances of Benvolio, who has fallen in love with her. Macdonald's daughter, Keira Knightley, played Rosaline in the play's 1999 premiere. The 2012 young adult novel \"When You Were Mine\" by Rebecca Serle sets Rosaline's story in a contemporary high school. Rosaline and Romeo (renamed Rob) have been best friends since childhood and are just beginning to fall in love when Rosaline's cousin, Juliet, moves back into town and sets her sights on Rob. Important character in sequel named \"Plague on both your houses!\" (1994) by Grigori Gorin.\n\nStill Star-Crossed (2017) – period drama television series created by Heather Mitchell and based on the book with same name by Melinda Taub. It follows Rosaline (played by Lashana Lynch). She and Benvolio of Montague are betrothed against their will by Prince Escalus, to end the feud between the two families. Both resolve to find a way to end the violence without having the union.\n"}
{"id": "58687691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58687691", "title": "Saint Jerome and the Angel of Judgement", "text": "Saint Jerome and the Angel of Judgement\n\nSaint Jerome and the Angel of Judgement is an oil on canvas painting by Jusepe de Ribera, signed and dated by the artist in 1626. It was produced as a display for a side chapel next to the high altar of the church of Santissima Trinità delle Monache, which also housed Ribera's \"Earthly Trinity\". The religious order running the building was suppressed in 1813 and the canvas instead entered the Bourbon Collection and the National Museum of Capodimonte in Naples - it still hangs in the latter.\n\nIt is typical of Neapolitan Caravaggism. The figure of an angel blowing a trumpet draws on the angel in Caravaggio's own \"Saint Matthew and the Angel\". The work shows Saint Jerome producing the Vulgate Bible, shown as a scroll on the floor in front of him. Behind Jerome is his typical attribute of a lion, whilst to his right are a skull and a book, both also attributes of the saint.\n"}
{"id": "39593347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39593347", "title": "Sansepolcro Altarpiece", "text": "Sansepolcro Altarpiece\n\nThe Ascension of Christ (also known as Sansepolcro Altarpiece; Italian: \"Pala di Sansepolcro\") is a painting by Italian Renaissance master Perugino, dating from around 1510. It is housed in the Cathedral of Sansepolcro, Tuscany, central Italy.\n\nThe works adopts the same composition in the central panel of Perugino's \"San Pietro Polyptych\". However, due to the greater sizes, he enhanced some decorative details, such as the ribbons held by the angels. The work also saw a massive collaboration of the artist's workshop.\n\nChrist is portrayed within an almond hovering at the top center of the panel, surrounded by flying or playing angels, while the frame has heads of cherubims and seraphims. The lower group includes Mary and the Apostles, with an Umbrian landscape in the background, characterized by slender trees. \n"}
{"id": "25253339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25253339", "title": "Shilpa Architects", "text": "Shilpa Architects\n\nShilpa Architects is an international architecture, design and planning firm that was founded in 1979 in Chennai, India by Sheila Sri Prakash. The firm was established as a proprietary firm and is the first architecture firm that was founded independently by a woman and has been continuously operated in India. It currently operates offices in Chennai, Bangalore and Mumbai, in India and in New York City and Chicago in the United States and provides urban design and master planning services. The firm's designs can be seen at Cholamandal Artists' Village, Mahindra World City, New Chennai, Paranur on GST Road and it is known for its work inspired by sustainable vernacular architectural practices as well as a sensitivity for society and the built-natural environment.\n\nSheila Sri Prakash currently serves on the World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council on Design Innovation, as one of 16 leading experts from around the world that have been called upon to devise plans to improve the state of the world. She received her architectural degree from the Anna University School of Architecture and Planning in Chennai and completed an Executive Education program at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. She was also an International Fellow of Architecture at Ball State University in Muncie Indiana for her scholarly work on Indian Art, Architecture and Vaastu : The Indian Art of placement or Vastu Shastra. Since its inception, the company has grown to over 80 professionals and has operations across India and in the USA. The firm's designers have been invited to speak at several national and international forums such as the Confederation of Indian Industry.\n\nShilpa Architects was instrumental in the institution of the Indian Green Building Council and continues to remain a member of that organization. The firm is known for designing planning and architectural solutions that cater to the millions of underprivileged by delivering shelter through low-cost, durable, mass-construction techniques. In 1987 - the year of \"Shelter for the shelterless\" by the Shelter programme in Tamil Nadu state, the firm was invited by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, Madras Metropolitan Development Authority and the World Bank to prototype a model that has since been adopted successfully in a large-scale format across Tamil Nadu and India. Sheila Sri Prakash holds patents for innovative designs in structural and architectural elements for low cost yet improved quality of construction.\n\nIn 2003, Designshare awarded Shilpa Architects a Recognized Value Award for its innovative design for educational infrastructure.\n\nIn 2008, the firm received the IAD Award.\n\nShilpa Architects has recently been called upon to restore some of India's archaeological treasures as one of the country's select few experts in architecture, design, restoration and preservation by the Archaeological Survey of India.\n\nThe firm has diversified with subsidiaries in the investment & asset management space - through Nirmana Investments Pvt Ltd which was founded by Bhargav Sri Prakash - and in turn-key interior fit out solutions - through Stone Lotus - and delivers architectural designs internationally through an overseas subsidiary.\n\nPavithra Sri Prakash has recently been inducted into the Board of the company and is an Architect and Urban Designer by profession. She received her undergraduate degree in Architecture from the Anna University School of Architecture and Planning in Chennai and completed her graduate degree in Architecture and Urban Design from Columbia University in New York.\n\nThe company recently inducted Amrit Sahasranamam as the Chief Financial Officer. Amrit Sahasranamam has an undergraduate degree in Computer Science from the Illinois Institute of Technology and a Master of Business Administration from the University of Chicago.\n\nThe Reciprocity Wave, a program conceived by Sheila Sri Prakash, is a sculpture competition where students create art work with recycled materials to highlight social and environmental issues. Shilpa Architects have conducted three such initiatives, two in Chennai, and one in Bangalore.\nand one in Cubbon Park, Bangalore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43817060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43817060", "title": "Sue McCauley", "text": "Sue McCauley\n\nSue McCauley (born December 1, 1941 in Dannevirke) is a New Zealand novelist, short story writer, playwright, journalist and screenwriter.\n\nHer first novel was the semi-autobiographical \"Other Halves\" (1982), which won both the Wattie Book of the Year Award and the New Zealand Book Award for Fiction. It was adapted into a film, released in 1984 with McCauley credited as screenwriter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51998279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51998279", "title": "The Art and Olfaction Awards", "text": "The Art and Olfaction Awards\n\nThe Art and Olfaction Awards are a non-profit award mechanism designed to celebrate excellence in international artisan, experimental and independent perfumery and olfactory art through a yearly blind-judged competition.\n\nThe organization states the following as its mission:\n\n\"Awarded to just four perfumes and one experimental project a year, The Art and Olfaction Award is designed to raise interest and awareness for independent and artisan perfumers - and experimental practitioners with scent - from all countries. By shining a spotlight on perfumery’s most outstanding creators, we hope to help generate support for independent practices in perfumery as a whole. The Art and Olfaction Awards are a program of The Institute for Art and Olfaction, a 501(c)3 non-profit organization based in Los Angeles, USA.\"\n\nThe Art and Olfaction Awards were founded in 2013 as a program of The Institute for Art and Olfaction in Los Angeles. The first awards ceremony took place in April, 2014, at Goethe Institut Los Angeles. At this first event, awards were given in two categories: Independent and Artisan.\n\nIn 2015, the awards expanded upon their existing categories by adding The Sadakichi Award for Experimental Work with Scent - named after the critic and writer Sadakichi Hartmann in honor of his failed scent concert from the early 20th century. The Sadakichi Award was added as \"a new category aimed at recognizing innovative uses of scent beyond the bounds of commercial perfumery\" - joining the artisan and independent awards to create what was intended as a broad snapshot of the diversity and creative potential in the field of perfume.\n\nThe third annual Art and Olfaction Awards were held on May 6, 2016 at Hammer Museum as part of their public programming. The expanded event was hosted by artist and producer Zackary Drucker, and was free, open to the public, and live streamed on the internet. In an effort to better cement the award's international commitment, the fourth annual Art and Olfaction Awards take place in May 2017 at Silent Green kulturquartier in Berlin. The finalists are announced yearly at Esxence in Milan.\n\nThe Art and Olfaction Awards were created as mechanism to impartially judge and promote work being done by artisan perfumers, independent perfume houses, and creative practitioners working with scent in the context of arts or experimental practices. Limited to artists, artisan perfumers and independent perfume houses (which they define as brands that are independently owned, or owned by another independently-owned company), they are closed to larger-scale perfume releases - a space already served by The Fragrance Foundation's Awards. In that capacity they have been compared to the film industry's Independent Spirit Awards. Indeed, the awards were created based on founder Saskia Wilson-Brown's experience with film festivals:\n\n\"\"The awards represented a chance to apply what I learned in the film festival world to the perfume world. In fact, we adapted many of the structures that go into running a film festival for the Art and Olfaction Awards, namely: Low entry fees, [...] unbiased judging (in many film festivals you are excluded from judging a film that you have a personal tie to), a diversity of judges, and a non-profit art for arts-sake motivation.”\"\n\nSeveral further systems were put into place to ensure fairness, including blind, multiple-phase judging. The result was what Luca Turin called '[...]the only fluff-free fragrance contest in the world'.\n\nThere are two artisan category winners out of ten finalists, two independent category winners out of ten finalists, and one Sadakichi Award for Experimental Work with Scent winner out of five finalists per year. Winners each receive a golden pear statuette.\n\nArtisan Category Winners\n\n\"Calling All Angels\", by April Aromatics, Germany - 2014 winner\n\n\"John Frum\", by Aether Arts Perfumes, US - 2014 winner\n\n\"Eau de Céleri\", by Monsillage, Canada - 2015 winner\n\n\"Woodcut\", by Olympic Orchids, US - 2015 winner\n\n\"Incendo\", by La Curie, US - 2016 winner\n\n\"Miyako\", by Auphorie, Malaysia - 2016 winner\n\n\"Mélodie de l’Amour\", by Parfums Dusita, France - 2017 winner\n\n\"Bruise Violet\", by Sixteen92, US - 2017 winner\n\n\"Chienoir\", by BedeauX, England - 2018 winner\n\n\"Club Design\", by The Zoo, US/Germany - 2018 winner\n\nIndependent Category Winners\n\n\"Ashoka\", by Neela Vermeire Creations, France (with Bertrand Duchaufour) - 2014 winner\n\n\"König\", by Yosh, US (with Olivia Jan, Robertet) - 2014 winner\n\n\"Black Pepper & Sandalwood\", by Acca Kappa, Italy (with Luca Maffei) - 2015 winner\n\n\"Skive\", by Canoe, USA (with Jessica Hannah) - 2015 winner\n\n\"Bat\", by Zoologist Perfumes, Canada (with Ellen Covey) - 2016 winner\n\n\"Néa\", by Jul et Mad Paris, France (with Luca Maffei) - 2016 winner\n\n\"Altruist\", by J.F. Schwarzlose Berlin, Germany (with Véronique Nyberg) - 2017 winner\n\n\"Fathom V\", by BeauFort London, England (with Julie Marlowe) - 2017 winner\n\n\"Eau de Virginie\", by Au Pays de la Fleur d'Oranger (with Jean-Claude Gigodot) - 2018 winner\n\n\"Nuit de Bakelite\", by Naomi Goodsir (with Isabelle Doyen) - 2018 winner\n\nSadakichi Award for Experimental Work with Scent Winners\n\n\"Famous Deaths\", by Sense of Smell Project, The Netherlands - 2015 winner\n\n\"Century's Breath\", by Cat Jones, Australia - 2016 winner\n\n\"Osmodrama / Smeller 2.0\" by Wolfgang Georgsdorf, Germany (with Geza Schön) - 2017 winner\n\n\"Under the Horizon\", by Oswaldo Macia (with Ricardo Moya), Columbia / UK - 2018 winner\n\nContribution to Scent Culture Award\n\nChristophe Laudamiel - 2017 winner\n\nPeter de Cupere - 2018 winner\n\nAftel Award for Handmade Perfume\n\n\"Pays Dogon\", by Monsillage, Canada - 2018 winner\n\n2014 Finalists\n\nArtisan Category: \"Blackbird\", Olympic Orchids; \"Golden Hour\", Artemisia Perfumes; \"Lampblack\", Bruno Fazzolari; \"Magnolia Esxentialis\", Cristiano Canali; \"Mosaic\", Imaginary Authors; \"Owl\", Sweet Anthem Perfumes; \"Semsei\", Piotr Czarnecki; \"Vesper\", Mik Moi\n\nIndependent Category: \"Blood Sweat Tears\", Atelier De Geste; \"Christopher Street\", Charenton Macerations; \"Feu Follet\", by Friede Modin; \"FR!01/02\", by Fragrance Republ!c; \"Jardin Mystique\", by Friede Modin; \"Only for Her\", Hayari Parfums; \"Sahraa Oud\", Fragrance DuBois, France\n\n2015 Finalists\n\nArtisan Category: \"A City on Fire\", Imaginary Authors; \"Foxglove\", DS & Durga; \"Tobacco Cognac\", House of Cherry Bomb\n\nIndependent Category: \"Boccanera\", OrtoParisi; \"Ombre Indigo\", Olfactive Studio, France; \"Pashay\", Ray Matts\n\nSadakichi Award for Experimental Work with Scent: \"Catalin\", by Charles Long, Carrie Paterson, Karen Reitzel, Seth Hawkins, Emery Martin, Michael Mascha; \"Chroma\", by Dawn Spencer Hurwitz; \"Crime and Punishment\", by Mike McGinley, Charles McGinley; \"In Libro de Tenebris\", by Paul Schütze\n\n2016 Finalists\n\nArtisan Category: \"Albino\", DSH Perfumes; \"Bird of Paradise\", Thorn & Bloom Perfume; \"Cape Cod Wild Beach Rose\", Nomaterra; \"Love for 3 Oranges\", Aether Arts Perfumes; \"Musk Rose Attar\", Rising Phoenix; \"Namibia\", Frazer Parfum; \"Peach Tree Garden\", Phoenix Botanicals; \"Salomé\", Papillon Artisan Perfumes\n\nIndependent Category: \"Panorama\", Olfactive Studio; \"Waihèke Dreams\", Juliana Parfums Co.; \"Fougère Nobile\", Nobile 1942; \"Salim Attar\", Tabacora Parfums; \"Past | Presence\", Roads; \"Dark Ride\", Xyrena;\"Elephant + Roses\", Maria Candida Gentile Maitre Parfumeur; \"Rose de Taif Extrait\", Perris Monte Carlo\n\nSadakichi Award for Experimental Work with Scent: \"Dear Enemy\", by Christy Gast, with Camila Marambio, Derek Corcoran, Giorgia Graells; \"The Juice of War\", by Maki Ueda; \"Signal\", by Carrie Paterson; \"Western Drive\", by Kellen Walker\n\n2017 Finalists\n\nArtisan Category: \"Baraonda\", Nasomatto; \"Ceremony\", Mirus Fine Fragrance; \"Fatih Sultan Mehmed\", Fort and Manlé; \"Limestone\", Thorn & Bloom; \"Liquorice Vetiver\", SP Parfums; \"Onycha\", Dawn Spencer Hurwitz; \"Rosuerrier\", Pryn Parfum; \"Saffron\", Aether Arts Perfume; \"Vanilla and the Sea\", Phoenix Botanicals\n\nIndependent Category: \"Absolue D'Osmanthe\", Perris Monte Carlo; \"Anti Anti\", Atelier PMP; \"Belle de Jour\", Eris Parfums; \"Civet\", Zoologist; \"Close Up\", Olfactive Studio; \"Lankaran Forest\", Maria Candida Gentile Maitre Parfumeur; \"Maître Chausseur\", Extrait D'Atelier; \"Romanza\", Masque Milano; \"Stones\", Atelier de Geste\n\nSadakichi Award for Experimental Work with Scent: \"Is This Mankind\", Peter de Cupere; \"Paradise Paradoxe\", Elodie Pong; \"Smell of Data\", Leanne Wijnsma; \"The Feelies: Multisensory Storytelling - Amazon\", Grace Boyle\n\n2018 Finalists\n\nArtisan Category: \"Bee's Bliss\", Sonoma Scent Studio; \"Cigar Rum\", Strangers Perfumerie; \"Impressions de Giverny\", Fort and Manlé; \"Morah\", Pryn Parfum; \"Silphium\", Stora Skuggan; \"Touchstone\", Aesther Arts Perfume; \"Villa M\", Paul Schütze Perfume; \"Wonderly\", House of Oud\n\nIndependent Category: \n\"A.E.O.M.\", Bijon; \"Ankh Sun Amon\", Anima Mundi Perfume; \"Cacao Aztèque\", Perris Monte Carlo; \"Elephant\", Zoologist; \"London\", Gallivant Perfumes; \"Osang\", Talismans - Collezione Preziosa; \n\"Pink Heart v.6\", Map of the Heart; \"Rose Olivier\", Bastide\n\nSadakichi Award for Experimental Work with Scent:\"Olfactory Games\", Maki Ueda; \"Smoke Flowers\", Peter de Cupere; \"Whoa (Pineapple Nails)\", Aleesa Cohene; \"The Library of Smell\", Hisako Inoue\n\nPast judges include Stefan Sagmeister, Christophe Laudamiel, Luca Turin, Mandy Aftel, Sarah Horowitz-Thran, Michael Edwards, Annick Le Guérer, Katie Puckrik, Andy Tauer, Helder Suffenplan, Andreas Wilhelm, Denyse Beaulieu, Mark Behnke, Matthias Janke, Steven Gontarski, Antonio Gardoni, Ashley Eden Kessler, Bruno Fazzolari, Dana El Masri, Harald Lübner, Sherri Sebastian, Yvettra Grantham, Ashraf Osman, Caro Verbeek, Kaya Sorhaindo, Kóan Jeff Baysa, Matthias Tabert, Simon Niedenthal, Allison Agsten, Bettina Hubby, Brent Leonesio, Daniel Krasofski, Deji Bryce Olukotun, Hank Jenkins, James McHugh, Laura Johnson, Lizzie Ostrom (AKA Odette Toilette), Marcos Lutyens, Mark Allen, Miriam Vareldzis, Christopher Gordon, Grant Osborne, Neal Harris, Sarah Baker, Peter de Cupere, Persephenie Lea, Sebastian Fischenich.\n\n'Olfactory Art', by Susan Stone, Monocle Arts Review, 26 May 2017\n\n'What did Qaddafi's Death Smell Like', by Nicola Twilley, The New Yorker, April 23, 2015\n\n'Message in a Bottle', by Luca Turin, Style Arabia, April 20, 2015\n\n'Institute for Art and Olfaction Elevates the Senses', by Ingrid Schmidt, LA Times, December 21, 2014\n\n'Report from the second annual Art & Olfaction Awards', Basenotes, 27 April 2015\n\n'An Overview of the 3rd Annual Institute for Art and Olfaction Awards', Basenotes, 11 May 2016\n\n'Art and Olfaction Awards Celebrates Artisan Perfumers', by Mary Orlin, Huffington Post, 1 December 2014\n"}
{"id": "45303458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45303458", "title": "The Dance of the Villagers", "text": "The Dance of the Villagers\n\nThe Dance of the Villagers is a 1635 painting by Peter Paul Rubens. now in the Prado Museum in Madrid. It is closely related to \"The Village Fête\", of a similar date and on a similar subject. \n\nAfter Rubens' death, Philip IV of Spain sent his ambassador to buy paintings from the artist's estate - he bought this one for 800 florins and the king hang it in his summer dining room in the old Royal Alcázar of Madrid. It is now in the Prado Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "22946621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22946621", "title": "Transition (fiction)", "text": "Transition (fiction)\n\nTransitions in fiction are words, phrases, sentences, paragraphs, or punctuation that may be used to signal various changes in a story, including changes in time, location, point-of-view character, mood, tone, emotion, and pace. Transitions are sometimes listed as one of various fiction-writing modes.\n\nTransitions provide for a seamless narrative flow as a story shifts in time, location, or point-of view. They aid the internal logic of a story by moving readers from sentence to sentence, paragraph to paragraph, idea to idea, scene to scene, and chapter to chapter with grace and ease.\n\nTransitions in fiction may take any of several forms, including chapter breaks, section breaks, and summarization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23766147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23766147", "title": "Visions Before Midnight", "text": "Visions Before Midnight\n\nVisions Before Midnight is a selection of the television criticism written by Clive James during his first four years (1972–1976) as \"The Observer\"'s weekly television critic. The selection begins with a piece on the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, and ends with a piece on the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal. It was first published in 1977. The title derives from Sir Thomas Browne: \"Dreams out of the ivory gate, and visions before midnight.\"\n\nBefore being contracted by \"Observer\" editor David Astor, James had previously written one piece per month on television for \"The Listener\" and its editor, Karl Miller, had been an important influence on James. He had allowed him to, \"write a column which eschewed solemnity so thoroughly that it courted the frivolous. Like Lichtenberg Karl Miller appreciated the kind of joke that unveils a problem: if your gags had a serious reason for being there, they stayed in.\" James explains in the preface: \"Television was a natural part of my life. I loved watching it and I loved being on it. The second passion has since somewhat faded, but the first remains strong, and was very powerful at the time. I watched just about everything, including the junk. The screen teemed with unsummable activity. It was full of visions, legends, myths, fables. T.V was scarcely something you could feel superior to. It was too various. What I had to offer was negative capability, a capability for submission to the medium. I was the first to submit myself to Alastair Burnet and find him fascinating. No critic before me had ever regarded David Vine as a reason for switching the set \"on\".\"\n\nIn the preface James says that the idea of publishing a selection of his television criticism had been in his mind since speaking with Kenneth Tynan at a reception at the Garrick Club. Tynan had said he hoped James would publish some of his criticism but averred that, \"A television critic would have to know everything, and who knows everything?\" James had been lost for an answer at the time but in the Preface replies, \"It isn't necessary to know everything – just to remember that nobody else does either.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3939022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3939022", "title": "Wild World (song)", "text": "Wild World (song)\n\n\"Wild World\" is a song written and recorded by English singer-songwriter Cat Stevens. It first appeared on his fourth album, \"Tea for the Tillerman\", recorded and released in 1970.\n\nStevens developed a relationship with actress Patti D'Arbanville and the two were a pair throughout a period of two years or so. During that time, he wrote several songs about her, including the song \"Wild World.\" The song has struck many critics as being protective and caring; the artist's expression of love includes words like \"Because I never want to see you sad girl, don't be a bad girl\".\n\nThe song is in the form of the singer's words to his departing lover, inspired by the end of their romance. Stevens later recalled to \"Mojo\": \"It was one of those chord sequences that's very common in Spanish music. I turned it around and came up with that theme—which is a recurring theme in my work—which is to do with leaving, the sadness of leaving, and the anticipation of what lies beyond.\"\n\nReleased as a single in late 1970, it peaked at No. 11 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. \"Wild World\" has been credited as the song that gave Stevens' next album, \"Tea for the Tillerman\", \"enough kick\" to get it played on FM radio; and Island Records' Chris Blackwell has been quoted as calling it \"the best album we've ever released\" to that date.\n\nIn November 2008, the \"Tea for the Tillerman\" CD was re-issued in a deluxe version which included the original demo of \"Wild World\".\n\nThe song has been covered by many artists, with many of the covers becoming hits of their own. Jimmy Cliff's version, released a few months after Stevens released the original version, reached number eight on the UK Singles Chart. Surprisingly, Stevens' version was not released as a single in the UK. Some of the subsequent covers have also been in the reggae style, indicating that they may be covers of Cliff's version, as opposed to direct covers of Cat Stevens' original arrangement. An example of this would be Maxi Priest's version of the song. Recorded and released as a single in 1988, this version also did well on the charts, reaching number five on the UK Singles Chart and No. 25 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100. \n\nIn 1987, Jonathan King accused Pet Shop Boys of plagiarising the melody of \"Wild World\" for their UK No. 1 single \"It's a Sin\". He made the claims in \"The Sun\", for which he wrote a regular column during the 1980s. King also released his own cover version of \"Wild World\" as a single, using a similar musical arrangement to \"It's a Sin\", in an effort to demonstrate his claims. This single flopped, while Pet Shop Boys sued King, eventually winning out-of-court damages, which they donated to charity.\n\nOn July 7, 2007, the song was performed twice at the Live Earth concerts. James Blunt sang it at Wembley Stadium in London, England, while Yusuf Islam (formerly Cat Stevens) himself sang it in Hamburg, Germany.\n\nIn 1993 American rock band Mr. Big released a pop rock ballad cover of \"Wild World\" on their third album Bump Ahead. The single charted at No. 27 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, No. 33 on the Top 40 Mainstream and No. 12 on the Mainstream Top 40. In Europe it was very successful, peaking at No. 4 in Denmark, No. 7 in Austria & Switzerland, at No. 10 in Norway, Sweden & Netherlands and No. 13 in Iceland.\n\nThe \"Gavin Report\" wrote about the song: \"How many ways can a song be interpreted? In the case of Cat Stevens' 1971 smash there are at least three: The Catman's original, Maxi Priest, who gave it a reggae spin, and now Mr. Big's soulful, sensitive approach with a slight rock edge. Lead singer Eric Martin is powerful without overpowering the song.\"\n\nThe music video for \"Wild World\" was directed by Nancy Bennett. \n\n"}
{"id": "42776777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42776777", "title": "Winter Trees", "text": "Winter Trees\n\nWinter Trees is a 1971 posthumous collection of poetry by Sylvia Plath, published by her husband Ted Hughes. Along with \"Crossing the Water\" it provides the remainder of the poems that Plath had written during her state of elevated creativity prior to her suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "42559139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42559139", "title": "Women's National Book Association", "text": "Women's National Book Association\n\nThe Women's National Book Association (WNBA) was established in 1917, as an organization to promote the role of women in the community of the book. This organization includes twelve active chapters in the United States, network members outside regional chapters, and corporate sponsorships. WNBA is a broad-based, non-profit, 501(c)(3) organization offering three distinguished national awards and a longstanding history of literary activism.\n\nThe organization started in 1917, when women in the book industry were excluded from joining the professional organization, the Bookseller's League. Fifteen women met at Sherwood's Book Store in Lower Manhattan on November 13, 1917, and founded the Women's National Book Association as an organization to support and give voice to women in the book industry. The first President was Pauline Sherwood, of Sherwood's Book Store.\n\nThe early organization's unique characteristic was that membership was open to women in all facets of the book world-publishers, booksellers, librarians, authors, illustrators, agents, production people - the only criterion being that part of their income must come from books. Almost 100 years later, with ten chapters spanning the country from Boston to San Francisco and with Network members across the country, the Women's National Book Association continues its mission to champion the role of women in the world of words, with women and men who are professionals in the publishing industry, who are authors, or are advocates of literature as members. The organization's newsletter, \"The Bookwoman\", was created in 1936 by Constance Lindsay Skinner and has had continuous publication to the current date.\n\nThere are eleven active chapters in the United States:\n\n\nThis award was established by the organization in 1981 in honor of a longtime member, Lucile Micheels Pannell. Pannell was a well-known librarian, author, and manager of the Hobby Horse Bookshop at Carson, Pirie, Scott, and Company department store in Chicago. Pannell founded the Chicago Children’s Reading Table and was the first bookseller to win the WNBA Award in 1949. The Pannell Award recognizes the work of booksellers, both general booksellers and those specializing in children's books, who creatively promote and encourage public interest in books.\n\nThe Eastman Grant is a cash award given annually by the Women's National Book Association to a state library association based in a state in which the organization has a chapter. The Eastman Grant funds librarian professional development and training. The grant honors Ann Heidbreder Eastman, a longtime member of the organization and national president, as well as a member of the American Librarian Association, where she held many leadership roles.\n\nAfter years of celebrating published authors, extraordinary book women and others in the field, WNBA decided it is time to celebrate emerging writers. In 2012, the first annual writing contest was announced, for fiction and poetry.\n\nThe Women's National Book Association has been a non-governmental organization (NGO) member of the United Nations since 1959. An NGO is defined as \"any non-profit, voluntary citizens' group that is organized on a local, national or international level. Task-oriented and driven by people with a common interest, NGOs perform a variety of services and humanitarian functions, bring citizens' concerns to governments, monitor policies and encourage political participation at the community level.\"\n\nThe Women's National Book Association launched National Reading Group Month in October 2007 as the premier event of its 90th anniversary.\nNational Reading Group Month augments the WNBA's mission to promote the value of books and reading. Through this initiative the organization aims to foster the values reading groups encourage: camaraderie, enjoyment of shared reading, and appreciation of literature and reading as conduits for transmitting culture and advancing civic engagement. The mission of National Reading Group Month is to:\n\n\nIn addition, the National Reading Group Month creates an annual Great Group Reads list of recommended titles for book discussion groups.\n\nMembership in the Women's National Book Association is stated as being open to anyone interested in the mission of the organization. Ten chapters of the organization are active. Each offers programs, events, and support through chapter affiliation through an annual membership fee established by each chapter. For those outside the location of a chapter, network membership is offered. Corporate or Sustaining Memberships are also available.\n\n"}
