{"id": "6746543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6746543", "title": "Abbasgulu Bakikhanov", "text": "Abbasgulu Bakikhanov\n\nAbbasgulu Bakikhanov () (21 June 1794, Amirjan – 31 May 1847, Wadi Fatima, near Jeddah), Abbas Qoli Bakikhanov, or Abbas-Qoli ibn Mirza Mohammad (Taghi) Khan Badkubi was an Azerbaijani writer, historian, journalist, linguist, poet and philosopher.\n\nHe was son of the third khan of Baku Mirza Muhammad Khan II. He later served as an officer in the Imperial Russian Army and participated in the Russo-Persian War of 1826-1828. He later retired and settled in Quba, but traveled extensively within Russia, meeting important literary figures as Alexander Pushkin.\n\nAlso known by his pen name Qodsi / Qudsi / Gudsi (Azeri: \"Qüdsi\"), Bakikhanov is referred to by many Azerbaijani scholars as being one of the \"earliest (Azerbaijani) intellectuals and historians\". He is credited with being the first person that wrote a proper \"scholarly monograph on the history of greater Shirvan\"; the area that would later make up most of the Republic of Azerbaijan. His \"Qanun-e Qudsi\", was the first Persian grammar manual published in history.\n\nAccording to other sources, Bakikhanov was born on 10 June 1794. His childhood contemporized with a defining epoch in the history of the Caucasus—the era of battles between Russia and Persia over political domination in the region. Bakikhanov was the son of the 3rd khan of Baku, Mirza Muhammad Khan II and a Georgian lady Sofia. He began his academic studies at the age of 7 and soon excelled in Persian. In 1813, seven years after the loss of the khanate's sovereignty, the family moved to Quba, where Bakikhanov studied social and life sciences, humanities, and languages. Within the next ten years, he learned Arabic, Turkish, and Russian, followed later by French and Polish. In 1818, he established the first Azeri literary society \"Golestan-i Iram\". His poetry at this early phase displayed Bakikhanov's deep moral and philosophical involvement in Islam. In 1820, he enlisted in the Russian army as an interpreter and got a commission for taking part in suppressing the rebellious Kazikumukh Khanate (present-day southern Dagestan).\n\nBakikhanov actively participated in political life of the Caucasus. He was a member of the Russian diplomatic mission that was in charge of negotiating border issues between Russia and Persia in the 1820s. In 1823, he assisted in gathering ethnographic information for the \"Description of the Province of Karabakh\". In 1828, he was among the Russian military command under General Paskevich that took part in peace negotiations with Persia, which resulted in signing the Treaty of Turkmenchay. He managed to convince Khan Ehsan of Nakhchivan, as well as a number of Kurdish leaders of Persia to ally with Russia. The year after Bakikhanov was awarded the 4th Degree Medal of St. Vladimir for participating in the siege of Kars in the Russo-Turkish War of 1828-1829. For a while he served at the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Saint Petersburg, and had travelled to Kaunas, Riga, and Warsaw before he retired in 1835 and returned to the village of Amsar near Quba.\n\nBakikhanov's religious views were generally liberal due to major European influences. He criticized fanaticism among the religious masses and the Obscurantism of the clergy. He promoted the Islamic culture in the region and in Russia as a whole. His ultimate goal was to establish a Muslim college in Baku and an Oriental languages school in Tbilisi. In 1832, he came up with a project for establishing a major educational institution for Muslims, where subjects would be taught in Russian, Persian, and Azeri. He went further, and wrote a number of textbooks through which students were expected to study. The project was sent to the governor of the Caucasus for approval but unfortunately was disregarded and never looked into. Bakikhanov also translated several fables by Ivan Krylov into Azeri — however, only one has been preserved till nowadays. His greatest accomplishment in the field of education was writing \"Qanun-e Qudsi\", the first Persian grammar manual published in history.\n\nRiyadh al-Quds (\"The Holy Garden\"). Bakikhanov wrote his first book (in Azeri) under religious influence from the Muslim communities of Quba. At the same time, \"Riyadh al-Quds\" was Bakikhanov's reflection piece on Shi'a mystic literature, such as \"Jila al-Uyun\" by Muhammed Baghir Majlisi.\n\nGolestan-e Eram (\"The Blooming Flower Garden\") is one of his major works (written in Persian) and dedicated to the history of the East Caucasus from Ancient Times to 1813. An English translation of this work has been made by Willem Floor and Hasan Javadi and published by Mage Publishers in 2009.\n\nKetab-e Asgariyyeh (\"The Book of Asgar\") was Bakikhanov's first fiction book: a love story of two young people, persecuted by the fanatic society they lived in. The book was written in the Persian language.\n\nQanun-e Qodsi (\"The Holy Law\") was the first book in history entirely dedicated to the grammar of the Persian language. Originally written in Persian in 1831, it was translated into Russian in 1841 and became one of the bases for the development of iranistics in Russia.\n\nMishkat al-Anwar (\"The Cresset Niche\"). This book is an almanach of fables, parables, as well as some quotes from the Qur'an and references to Sufi mysticism overall aimed at preserving social values and morals within society. The book was written in Persian.\n\nKashf al-Qaraib (\"The Discovery of the Unknown\") was one of the school books written by Bakikhanov in the early 1830s in Persian, where he describes the discovery of the Americas.\n\nAsrar al-Malakut (\"The Secrets of Heavens\") is an introduction to astronomy, written in Arabic.\n\nOther works include Umumi Joghrafya (\"General Geography\"), Kitab-i Nasihat (\"The Book of Admonitions\"), etc., scientific essays, collected poems, articles, translations of various works into Azeri and Russian, etc.\n\nIn 1845, Bakikhanov went on a hajj. On his way to the holy Islamic sights, he was warmly received by the Shah of Persia and was awarded the Shir-e Khorshid, the highest ranking Persian medal. There he also visited Isfahan, Yazd, Shiraz, and Kermanshah. In Constantinople, Bakikhanov had an audience with the Sultan, who showed interest in some of his academic writings, particularly in \"Asrar al-Malakut\", of which he was presented a copy. From there, Bakikhanov went to visit Mecca and Medina. On his way from Medina back to Damascus he caught cholera and died in the small town of Wadi Fatima in Hejaz (present-day Saudi Arabia) in 1847.\n\nIn 1826, Bakikhanov married Sakina (b. 1807) his paternal cousin and grandnephew of Fatali Khan, daughter of Kalb Huseyn agha, by whom he had two daughters:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5306684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5306684", "title": "Alazon", "text": "Alazon\n\nAlazṓn () is one of three stock characters in comedy of the theatre of ancient Greece. He is the opponent of the \"eirôn\". The \"alazṓn\" is an impostor that sees himself as greater than he actually is. The senex iratus (the angry father) and the miles gloriosus (the glorious soldier) are two types of \"alazṓn\".\n\n\"Miles Gloriosus\" (literally, \"braggart-soldier\", in Latin) is a stock character of a boastful soldier from the comic theatre of ancient Rome, and variations on this character have appeared in drama and fiction ever since. The character derives from the \"alazṓn\" or \"braggart\" of the Greek Old Comedy (e.g. Aristophanes). The term \"Miles Gloriosus\" is occasionally applied in a contemporary context to refer to a posturing and self-deceiving boaster or bully.\n\nIn the play \"Miles Gloriosus\" by Plautus, the term applies to the main character Pyrgopolynices. This foolish \"Miles Gloriosus\" brags openly and often about his supposed greatness, while the rest of the characters feign their admiration and secretly plot against him. Heavily borrowing from Plautus, the Stephen Sondheim-Burt Shevelove-Larry Gelbart musical \"A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum\" features a warrior named Miles Gloriosus.\n\nShakespeare uses the type most notably with the bombastic and self-glorifying ensign Ancient Pistol in \"Henry IV, Part 2\", \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\" and \"Henry V\". Other examples are \"fashion's own knight\", the Spaniard Armardo, in \"Love's Labour's Lost\", the worthless Captain Parolles in \"All's Well That Ends Well\", and Falstaff in \"Henry IV, Part 1\" and \"Part 2\", and \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\".\n\nBaron Munchausen is a braggart soldier.\n\nIn Commedia dell'arte, the figure of Il Capitano is a \"miles gloriosus\".\n\nIn music, the title role of \"Háry János\" by Kodály is an example of the character.\n\nIn PC game \"\", there is a non-playable character named Miles Gloriosus, willing to brag about his accomplishments as soldier.\n\nThe \"senex iratus\" or heavy father figure is a comic archetype character who belongs to the alazon or impostor group in theater, manifesting himself through his rages and threats, his obsessions and his gullibility.\n\nHis usual function is to impede the love of the hero and heroine, and his power to do so stems from his greater social position and his increased control of cash. In the New Comedy, he was often the father of the hero and so his rival. More frequently since, he has been the father of the heroine who insists on her union with the bad fiancé; as such, he appears in both \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", where he fails and so the play is a comedy, and \"Romeo and Juliet\", where his acts are successful enough to render the play a tragedy.\n\nPantalone in Commedia dell'arte acts as a \"senex iratus\".\n\nIn his \"Anatomy of Criticism\", Northrop Frye considered all blocking humors in comedy to be variations on the basic function of the \"senex iratus\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5625943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5625943", "title": "Alexander Fol", "text": "Alexander Fol\n\nAlexander Fol () (born in Sofia, Bulgaria on July 3, 1933; died in Sofia on March 1, 2006) was a Bulgarian historian and Thracologist. In 1957, he studied history at the University of St. Kliment Ohridski in Sofia and earned a PhD in 1966. He worked as a university lecturer from 1972 and became a professor in 1975. From 1980 to 1986, he served as Minister of Culture and Education of Republic of Bulgaria. His research interests lay in classical Greek and Roman history, the cultural history of southeast Europe and Asia Minor, and Indo-European studies. He is best known for his contributions to Thracology.\n\nIn 1972, he established the Institute of Thracology at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in Sofia, and became its first director until 1992. During this time he organized International Congresses of Thracology in Sofia, Bucharest, Vienna, Rotterdam, Moscow, and Palma de Mallorca. He was secretary-general of the International Council for Indo-European and Thracology Studies. He held a chair of Ancient History and Thracology at the University of Sofia between 1979 and 1987, and a chair of Cultural History of Southeastern Europe since 1991. He was the founder of the Bulgarian Research Institute in Vienna, and of the School for Antique Languages and Culture in Sofia (1977). Since 1983, he was director of archaeological excavations in the east Bulgarian village of Drama together with Jan Lichardus of the Institute of Prehistory and Early History at the Saarland University Saarbrücken (Germany).\n\nFol was a member of the Accademia Medicea in Florence, Italy. Moreover, he was a member of the German Archaeological Institute, the Académie Maison in Paris, France and the Leibniz-Sozietaet in Berlin. He received numerous invitations as guest lecturer in England, the United States, Russia, Germany, Japan, Greece, Italy, Sweden, and France. His publications comprise twelve monographies on Thracian social history, as well as several articles in the field of Thracology. Alexander Fol died of stomach cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "902349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=902349", "title": "Alfred D. Chandler Jr.", "text": "Alfred D. Chandler Jr.\n\nAlfred DuPont Chandler Jr. (September 15, 1918 – May 9, 2007) was a professor of business history at Harvard Business School and Johns Hopkins University, who wrote extensively about the scale and the management structures of modern corporations. His works redefined business and economic history of industrialization. He received the Pulitzer Prize for History for his work, \"\" (1977). He has been called \"the doyen of American business historians\".\n\nChandler was the great-grandson of Henry Varnum Poor. \"Du Pont\" was apparently a family name given to his grandfather because his great-grandmother was raised by the Du Pont family, and there are other connections as well.\n\nChandler graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1936 and Harvard College in 1940. After World War II, he returned to Harvard, finished his M.A. in 1946, and earned his doctorate in 1952 under the direction of Frederick Merk. He taught at M.I.T. and Johns Hopkins University before arriving at Harvard Business School in 1970.\n\nChandler used the papers of his ancestor Henry Varnum Poor, a leading analyst of the railway industry, the publisher of the \"American Railroad Journal\", and a founder of Standard & Poor's, as a basis for his Ph.D. thesis.\n\nChandler began looking at large-scale enterprise in the early 1960s. His book \"Strategy and Structure: Chapters in the History of the Industrial Enterprise\" (1962) examined the organization of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Standard Oil of New Jersey, General Motors, and Sears, Roebuck and Co. He found that managerial organization developed in response to the corporation's business strategy. The book was voted the eleventh most influential management book of the 20th century in a poll of the Fellows of the Academy of Management.\n\nThis emphasis on the importance of a cadre of managers to organize and run large-scale corporations was expanded into a \"managerial revolution\" in \"The Visible Hand: The Managerial Revolution in American Business\" (1977) for which he received a Pulitzer Prize. He pursued that book's themes further in \"Scale and Scope: The Dynamics of Industrial Capitalism\", (1990) and co-edited an anthology on the same themes, with Franco Amatori and Takashi Hikino, \"Big Business and the Wealth of Nations\" (1997).\n\nChandler's masterwork was \"The Visible Hand: The Managerial Revolution in American Business\" (1977). His first two chapters looked at traditional owner-operated small business operations in commerce and production, including the largest among them, the slave plantations in the South. Chapters 3-5 summarize the history of railroad management, with stress on innovations not just in technology but also in accounting, finance and statistics. He then turned to the new business operations made possible by the rail system in mass distribution, such as jobbers, department stores and mail order. A quick survey (ch 8) review mass innovation in mass production.The integration of mass distribution and mass production (ch 9-11) led to many mergers and the emergence of giant industrial corporations by 1900. Management for Chandler was much more than the CEO, it was the whole system of techniques and included middle management (ch 11) as well as the corporate structure of the biggest firms, Standard Oil, General Electric, US Steel, and DuPont (ch 13-14). Chandler argued that managerial firms evolved in order to take advantage of productive techniques available after the rail network was in place. These firms had a higher productivity and lower costs resulting in higher profits. The firms created the \"managerial class\" in America because they needed to coordinate the increasingly complex and interdependent system. According to Steven Usselman, this ability to achieve efficiency through coordination, and not some anti-competitive monopolistic greed by robber barons, explained the high levels of concentration in modern American industry.\n\nAlong with economist Oliver E. Williamson and historians Louis Galambos, Robert H. Wiebe, and Thomas C. Cochran, Chandler was a leading historian of the notion of organizational synthesis.\n\nHe argued that during the 19th century, the development of new systems based on steam power and electricity created a Second Industrial Revolution, which resulted in much more capital-intensive industries than had the industrial revolution of the previous century. The mobilization of the capital necessary to exploit these new systems required a larger number of workers and managers, and larger physical plants than ever before. More particularly, the thesis of \"The Visible Hand\" is that, counter to other theses regarding how capitalism functions, administrative structure and managerial coordination replaced Adam Smith's \"invisible hand\" (market forces) as the core developmental and structuring impetus of modern business.\n\nIn the wake of this increase of industrial scale, three successful models of capitalism emerged, which Chandler associated with the three leading countries of the period: Great Britain (\"personal capitalism\"), the United States (\"competitive capitalism\") and Germany (\"cooperative capitalism.\")\n\nDespite the important differences in these three models, the common thread among the developed nations is that the large industrial firm has been the engine of growth in three ways: first, it has provided focal points for capital and labor on large scales; second, it became the educator whereby a nation learned the pertinent technology and developed managerial skills; third, it served as the core around which medium and small firms that supply and serve it grew.\n\nChandler's work was somewhat ignored in history departments, but proved influential in business, economics, and sociology.\n\nIn the business field, Chandler, along with Kenneth R. Andrews and Igor Ansoff, has been credited with the foundational role in introducing and popularizing the concept of business strategy. Chamberlain's Theory of Strategy cites Chandler's Strategy and Structure repeatedly as a source of key concepts.\n\nIn sociology, prior to Chandler's research, some sociologists assumed there were no differences between governmental, corporate, and nonprofit organizations. Chandler's focus on corporations clearly demonstrated that there were differences, and this thesis has influenced organizational sociologists' work since the late 1970s. It also motivated sociologists to investigate and critique Chandler's work more closely, turning up instances in which Chandler assumed American corporations acted for reasons of efficiency, when they actually operated in a context of politics or conflict.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58740360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58740360", "title": "Ann Curthoys", "text": "Ann Curthoys\n\nAnn Curthoys, (born 5 September 1945) is an Australian historian and academic.\n\nCurthoys was born in Sydney, New South Wales, on 5 September 1945, and completed her undergraduate degree at the University of Sydney. In 1965, she took part in the Freedom Ride which highlighted racism against Aboriginal Australians in several towns. She completed a PhD at Macquarie University in 1973 and subsequently worked as a tutor and research assistant.\n\nIn 1976, Curthoys established the Women's Studies Program at the Australian National University (ANU) after becoming active in the women's movement in 1970. She taught at the University of Technology, Sydney from 1978 to 1995, when she returned to the ANU to take up the Chair of History. Curthoys was the Group of Eight Visiting Professor of Australian Studies at Georgetown University in 2003 and 2004. In addition to her teaching work, Curthoys has extensively published on Australian history and historiography. In 1997, she was elected to the Academy of Social Sciences in Australia. She was also elected to the Australian Academy of the Humanities in 2003. \n\nCurthoys retired in 2013, but remains active as a researcher, writer and supervisor of graduate students at the University of Sydney.\n\n"}
{"id": "15183927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15183927", "title": "Antoine Banier", "text": "Antoine Banier\n\nThe abbé Antoine Banier (2 November 1673 – 2 November 1741), a French clergyman and member of the \"Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres\" from 1713, was a historian and translator, whose rationalizing interpretation of Greek mythology was widely accepted until the mid-nineteenth century.\n\nBanier, born at Dallet in Auvergne and educated at the Jesuit college at Clermont, arrived in Paris as a young man and held a place as tutor to the children of président Dumetz.\n\nIn his \"Mythologie et la fable expliqués par l'histoire\" (1711, recast in dialogue form in 1715, enthusiastically received and often reprinted) he offered a frankly Euhemerist reading of the origins of Greek mythology, seen as the gradually deified accounts of actual personages (see Euhemerism). The \"Advertisement\" to the English translation of Banier's Ovid summarised his procedure:\nFor Mr. Banier hath renounced the common Method of treating Fables as mere Allegories, and hath proved, that they have their in , and contain many important \"Facts\". He hath most judiciously stripped them of their poetical Embelishments and Disguises, and reduced them to the plain Historical Truths which the first Poets found them.\"Banier's Christian context placed these myths firmly in the tradition of idolatry, the worship of false gods.\n\nFor his translation of Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" he wrote a preface. An edition with Ovid's Latin and an English translation of Banier on facing pages, was published first in 1717, with a preface by Dr Sir Samuel Garth and handsome illustrations by Bernard Picart. This was the form in which most eighteenth-century British readers without Latin approached Ovid:\n\"It will perhaps at first sight appear Pedantic, that a Book, which by its Magnificence and Price can only be intended for a Court and for Persons of the first Quality, should be half filled with Latin. But how many are there of so elevated a Rank, especially among the English Nobility, who can relish the Beauties of the Original?\"\nThe engravings took up a career independent of the text; they formed part of the extensive visual repertory of prints and illustrated books that was assembled at the Manufactory of Meissen porcelain, for the use of porcelain painters in the rococo style, and they remained useful as a source of inspiration into the neoclassical nineteenth century, for a copy appears in the 1824 sale catalogue of Benjamin Vulliamy, the neoclassical clockmaker and bronzefounder to George IV.\n\nIn the ambitious \"Histoire générale des cérémonies, moeurs, et coutumes religieuses de tous les peuples du monde\", in seven volumes (Paris, 1741), for which the engravings had been supplied by the late Bernard Picart, Banier and his collaborator, the abbé Jean-Baptiste Le Mascrier, aimed to describe all religions of the known world, their origins and doctrines and especially their rites: \"It reflects in content and tone the learning, urbanity and self-confidence of the Catholic Church of the Ancien Régime,\" the producers of a lavish modern facsimile have termed it. In the work, Banier and Le Mascrier were in fact revising and enlarging an earlier \"Cérémonies et coutumes religieuses de tous les peoples du monde\", which had been compiled by the satirical Huguenot writer and printer, Jean-Frédéric Bernard (died 1752) and printed from the safety of Amsterdam, in 1723-24. Picart’s illustrations had originally been provided for that work. The ultimate sources for the information lay in Roman Catholic missionary accounts of religious beliefs encountered in Africa, the Americas and Asia. \"Banier and Le Mascrier, while retaining much of this material, made considerable alterations to all sections of the work, particularly to those volumes dealing with Judaism and with the Catholic and Protestant churches. As well as correcting factual errors in Bernard’s account and adding much new material, they removed a number of passages which they regarded as satirical in their treatment of the Catholic Church. Instead they inserted a good deal of forthright proclamation of the primacy of Catholicism over all other doctrines.\"\nBanier's Euhemerist and rational explication of myth in his \"Explication historique des fables\" satisfied Enlightenment expectations, before the beginnings of modern analysis of mythology. \"Of the writers who interpreted myth as gilded history, the Abbé Antoine Banier was probably the best-known, the most widely cited, and the least controversial\" assert Burton Feldman and Robert D. Richardson. The book was translated into English and German. Diderot and his collaborators employed the abbé Banier's interpretations in the \"Encyclopédie\", as intellectual common property of the Enlightenment.\nÉtienne de Jouy (born in 1764) recalled in 1815\n\"I remember that, in my earliest youth, the book I loved the most, after \"Robinson Crusoe\", was that of the abbé Banier, where he displays, where he explains these ingenious emblems by means of which the Ancients gave, so to speak, a soul to all beings, a body to all thoughts\"\n\nIn 1820 his work (as abridged by Abbe Tressan) was translated into English by Frances Arabella Rowden, an educator who, according to Mary Russell Mitford, was not only a poet, but \"had a knack of making poetesses of her pupils\".\n\nBy 1887 John Fiske could write, in \"Myths and Myth-Makers: Old Tales and Superstitions Interpreted by Comparative Mythology\"\n\"What, then, is a myth? The theory of Euhemeros, which was so fashionable a century ago, in the days of the Abbe Banier, has long since been so utterly abandoned that to refute it now is but to slay the slain. The peculiarity of this theory was that it cut away all the extraordinary features of a given myth, wherein dwelt its inmost significance, and to the dull and useless residuum accorded the dignity of primeval history.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36375170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36375170", "title": "Auctuarium Prosperi Havniense", "text": "Auctuarium Prosperi Havniense\n\nAuctuarium Prosperi Havniense is a continuation of the chronicle of Prosper of Aquitaine embodied in a manuscript at Copenhagen (hence \"Havniense\"); it was given this appellation by Theodore Mommsen, its editor.\n"}
{"id": "7644873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7644873", "title": "Battle of Ilerda", "text": "Battle of Ilerda\n\nThe Battle of Ilerda took place in June 49 BC between the forces of Julius Caesar and the Spanish army of Pompey the Great, led by his legates Lucius Afranius and Marcus Petreius. Unlike many other of the battles of the civil war, this was more a campaign of manoeuvre than actual fighting.\n\nAfter having driven the Optimates from Italy, in March 49 BC Caesar turned his attention to the Republican army in the Spanish provinces. On his way to Spain, Caesar was delayed when the port city of Massilia rebelled under the leadership of Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus in April. Leaving the siege of Massilia to Gaius Trebonius and Decimus Junius Brutus Albinus, Caesar moved to Hispania Citerior to reinforce the three legions he had sent there as an advance guard under his legate Fabius.\n\nWhen he arrived on the Spanish border, Caesar was able to seize the Pyrenees passes from the republicans and march into Spain. Near Ilerda, the Pompeians made camp on a hill and Caesar endeavoured to camp about 400 paces from the foot of the hill. While the Pompeians under Afranius threatened to give battle, Caesar declined, but had his first two lines of troops form up for battle anyway, while the third line was ordered to dig a wide ditch behind the lines, unseen. As night came, Caesar withdrew his army behind the ditch and spent the night under arms.\n\nThe next day was spent creating the rest of the ditch and the rampart which would form the defences of Caesar's camp. For this operation Caesar kept a part of his force on guard. In the midst of the plain there was a portion of rising ground which Caesar wanted to occupy. As he tells it:\nBetween the city of Ilerda, and the hill where Petreius and Afranius were encamped was a plain of about three hundred paces, in the midst of which was a rising ground, which Caesar wanted to take possession of; because, by that means, he could cut off the enemy's communication with the town and bridge, and render the magazines they had in the town useless.\nThe contest for this hill led to a protracted battle.\n\nBoth armies sent detachments towards the hill and the Pompeians occupied it first. This, combined with their skirmish-like combat technique, overwhelmed the Caesarian detachment and his troops were forced to give ground, eventually retreating to safety.\n\nThis minor reverse would result in Caesar spurning a renewed attack and this, in turn, led to a longer engagement. As Caesar tells it (in the third person, as was his style):\nCaesar, contrary to his expectation, finding the consternation like to spread through the whole army, encouraged his men, and led the ninth legion to their assistance. He soon put a stop to the vigorous and insulting pursuit of the enemy, obliged them to turn their backs, and pushed them to the very walls of Ilerda. But the soldiers of the ninth legion, elated with success, and eager to repair the loss we had sustained, followed the runaways with so much heat that they were drawn into a place of disadvantage, and found themselves directly under the hill where the town stood, whence when they endeavoured to retire, the enemy again facing about, charged vigorously from the higher ground. The hill was rough, and steep on each side, extending only so far in breadth as was sufficient for drawing up three cohorts; but they could neither be reinforced in flank, nor sustained by the cavalry. The descent from the town was indeed something easier for about four hundred paces, which furnished our men with the means of extricating themselves from the danger into which their rashness had brought them. Here they bravely maintained the fight, though with great disadvantage to themselves, as well on account of the narrowness of the place, as because being posted at the foot of the hill, none of the enemy's darts fell in vain. Still however they supported themselves by their courage and patience, and were not disheartened by the many wounds they received. The enemy's forces increased every moment, fresh cohorts being sent from the camp through the town, who succeeded in the place of those that were fatigued. Caesar was likewise obliged to detach small parties to maintain the battle, and bring off such as were wounded. The fight had now lasted five hours without intermission, when our men, oppressed by the multitude of the enemy, and having spent all their darts, attacked the mountain sword in hand, and overthrowing such as opposed them, obliged the rest to betake themselves to flight. The pursuit was continued to the very walls of Ilerda, and some out of fear took shelter in the town, which gave our men an opportunity of making good their retreat. At the same time the cavalry, though posted disadvantageously in a bottom, found means by their valour to gain the summit of the mountain, and riding between both armies, hindered the enemy from harassing our rear. Thus the engagement was attended with various turns of fortune. Caesar lost about seventy men in the first encounter, among whom was Q. Fulginius, first centurion of the Hastati of the fourteenth legion, who had raised himself by his valour to that rank, through all the inferior orders. Upwards of six hundred were wounded. On Afranius's side was slain T. Caecilius, first centurion of a legion; also four centurions of inferior degree, and above two hundred private men.\n\nThe spring storms and the melting snow from the mountains then caused flooding, which particularly affected the lower-situated Caesarians, whose camp was flooded. This meant that the Caesarian troops were unable to forage and famine struck the army, accompanied by disease. When the flood of the river Sicoris finally withdrew, the Caesarians built a bridge over it and caused Petreius and Afranius to abandon their camp and the city of Ilerda and retreat towards a second republican army under Marcus Terentius Varro.\n\nCaesar ordered a pursuit which overtook the retreating rear guard of the republican army and he was able to block the route on which the republicans were retreating. The two armies again camped close to each other leading to some fraternization between the two armies. Petreius, wanting to stop this fraternization, had the Caesarian soldiers who had wandered into the republican camp rounded up and killed. After this the republicans again retreated towards Ilerda, only to become besieged by the Caesarians in their new camp. By 30 July, Caesar had completely surrounded Afranius and Petreius's army. On 2 August, the five Pompeian legions in Ilerda surrendered to Caesar.\n\nAfter the surrender of the republican main army in Spain, Caesar then marched towards Varro in Hispania Ulterior, who at once without a fight submitted to him leading to another two legions surrendering. After this, Caesar left his legate Quintus Cassius Longinus —the brother of Gaius Cassius Longinus— in command of Spain with four of the legions, partly made up of men who had surrendered and gone over to the Caesarian camp, and returned with the rest of his army to Massilia and its siege.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "441078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=441078", "title": "Bernal Díaz del Castillo", "text": "Bernal Díaz del Castillo\n\nBernal Díaz del Castillo (c. 1496 – 1584) was a Spanish conquistador, who participated as a soldier in the conquest of Mexico under Hernán Cortés and late in his life wrote an account of the events. As an experienced soldier of fortune, he had already participated in expeditions to Tierra Firme, Cuba, and to Yucatán before joining Cortés. In his later years he was an encomendero and governor in Guatemala where he wrote his memoirs called \"The True History of the Conquest of New Spain\". He began his account of the conquest almost thirty years after the events and later revised and expanded it in response to the biography published by Cortes's chaplain Francisco López de Gómara, which he considered to be largely inaccurate in that it did not give due recognition to the efforts and sacrifices of others in the Spanish expedition.\nBernal Díaz del Castillo was born around 1496 in Medina del Campo, a prosperous commercial city in Castile. His parents were Francisco Díaz del Castillo and María Díez Rejón. His father was a \"regidor\" (city councilor) of Medina del Campo which provided the family with some prominence. Díaz had at least one older brother and they attended school together, learning to read and write. Bernal Diaz was intelligent and later showed a knack for languages, learning to speak the native dialect in Cuba, Nahuatl in Mexico, and the Cakchiquel language of the Guatemalan natives.\n\nIn 1514, when Díaz was about eighteen years old, he left home to join an expedition to the New World led by Pedrarias Dávila. It was the largest fleet yet sent to mainland America, consisting of 19 vessels and 1,500 persons. Díaz served as a common foot soldier and hoped to make his fortune but when they reached Darien in present-day Colombia, they were quickly overcome by famine and an epidemic that killed more than half of the settlers. Many of the colonists grew discouraged and looked elsewhere for new opportunities; some returned to Spain while others sailed to Hispaniola or Cuba.\n\nIn 1516, Diaz sailed to Cuba with about 100 other soldiers looking for a share of the gold and native laborers that were said to be found on the island. They discovered that gold was scarce and the native labor was in short supply, leading Díaz, in 1517, to join an expedition organized by a group of about 110 disaffected soldiers and settlers to \"discover new lands\". They chose Francisco Hernández de Córdoba, a wealthy Cuban landowner, to lead the expedition. It was a difficult venture and, after sailing from Cuba for 21 days, they came across the Yucatán coast in early March 1517, on the Cape Catoche.\n\nOn March 4, 1517, the Spanish had their first encounter with the Yucatán natives who came to meet them on five or perhaps 10, depending on the version/translation of his work, large wooden canoes. The next day, the Spaniards disembarked, invited by the natives who wanted to show them their village. They were ambushed but managed to retreat, after killing 15 locals and having 15 wounded, 2 of whom later died. Upon leaving, the Spaniards captured 2 natives who would be translators in future expeditions. The Spanish almost died of thirst and sailed to Florida in search of potable drinking water. As they were digging a well on the beach, the Spaniards were attacked by locals. During this fracas, one Spaniard was captured by the native Floridians while the Spanish killed 22 natives. The Spanish managed to make a retreat but were also able to gather some water. They returned to Cuba, all of them severely wounded. The captain, Francisco Hernández de Córdoba, and other soldiers died shortly after making it back to Cuba.\n\nNevertheless, Díaz returned to the coast of Yucatán in April 1518, in an expedition led by Juan de Grijalva, with the intent of exploring the lands. Upon returning to Cuba, he enlisted in a new expedition, this one led by Hernán Cortés.\n\nIn this third effort, Díaz took part in the campaigns against the Mexica, later called the Aztec Empire. By this time, he was a highly experienced member of Hernán Cortés's expedition. During this campaign, Díaz spoke frequently with his fellow soldiers about their experiences. These accounts, and especially Díaz's own experiences, served as the basis for the recollections that Bernal Díaz later told with great drama to visitors and, eventually, a book entitled \"Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España\" (). In the latter, Díaz describes many of the 119 battles in which he claims to have participated in, culminating in the defeat of the Aztecs in 1521. This work also claims to describe the diverse native peoples living in the territory renamed \"New Spain\" by the Spaniards. Bernal Díaz also examines the political rivalries of Spaniards, and gives accounts of the natives' human sacrifices, cannibalism and idolatry, which he claims he witnessed first-hand, as well as the artistic, cultural, political and intellectual achievements of the Aztecs, including their palaces, market places and beautifully organized botanical and zoological gardens. His account of the Mexica along with that of Cortés are first-person accounts recording important aspects of Mesoamerican culture. \"True History\" remains one of the best accounts we have of Mexico at the time of the conquest, but its purpose and style betrays some of the biases that appear in this so-called truthful history. Bernal Díaz's account has not been fully utilized as a source for conquest-era Mesoamerican culture.\n\nAs a reward for his service, Díaz was awarded an encomienda by Cortés in 1522. That was confirmed and supplemented by similar awards in 1527 and 1528. In 1541, he settled in Guatemala and, during the course of a trip to Spain, was appointed \"regidor\" (governor) of Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala, present-day Antigua Guatemala, in 1551.\n\nHis \"Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España\", finished in 1568, almost fifty years after the events it described, was begun around the same time as his appointment as regidor and was well in progress by the mid-1550s when he wrote to the Holy Roman Emperor (and king of Spain), Charles V, describing his services and seeking benefits. That was a standard action of conquerors to document their services to the crown and requests for rewards. Some version of his account circulated in central Mexico in the 1560s and 1570s, prior to its seventeenth-century publication. Bernal Díaz's account is mentioned by Alonso de Zorita, a royal official who wrote an account of indigenous society, and mestizo Diego Muñoz Camargo, who wrote a full-length account of the Tlaxcalans' participation in the conquest of the Mexica. Bernal Díaz's manuscript was expanded in response to what he later found in the official biography of Hernán Cortés commissioned by Cortés's heir, Don Martín Cortés, published in 1552 by Francisco López de Gómara. The title \"Historia verdadera\" (True History) is in part a response to the claims made by Hernán Cortés in his published letters to the king, López de Gómara, Bartolomé de las Casas, Gonzalo de Illescas and others who had not participated in the campaign. Bernal Díaz also used the publication of Juan Ginés de Sepúlveda on just war, which allowed Bernal Díaz to cast the conquest of Mexico as a just conquest. Despite Bernal Díaz's lack of formal education and the self-interest that gave birth to his volume, the \"Historia verdadera\" evokes, like no other source, the often tragic and painful yet fascinating process through which one empire ended and another began to take shape.\n\nBernal Díaz died in January 1584. He was alive on 1 January, but on 3 January, his son, Francisco, appeared before the Cabildo of Guatemala and informed them that his father had died. Miguel León-Portilla accepts this date in his Introduction (dated July 1984 \"a cuatro siglos de la muerte de Bernal\") to the anthology of extended excerpts from the \"Historia verdadera\". Alicia Mayer (2005) praised that edition, its selection, and León-Portilla's introduction, saying they remained, down to the date of her review, \"fuente imprescindible de consulta\" (an indispensable source to consult) without seeing his manuscript published. An expanded and corrected copy of the manuscript kept in Guatemala was sent to Spain and published, with revisions, in 1632. The manuscript was edited by Fray Alonso de Remón and Fray Gabriel Adarzo y Santander prior to publication. In this first published edition of Bernal Díaz's work, there is a chapter (212), which some consider apocryphal with signs and portents of the conquest and omitted for later editions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29734567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29734567", "title": "Catherine Morgan", "text": "Catherine Morgan\n\nCatherine Anne Morgan, (born 1961) is a British academic specialising in the history and archaeology of Early Iron Age and Archaic Greece. Since 2015, she has been a Senior Research Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford. She was Professor of Classical Archaeology at King's College London from 2005 to 2015, and Director of the British School at Athens from 2007 to 2015.\n\nMorgan was born in 1961. From 1980 to 1983, she studied archaeology and anthropology at Clare College, Cambridge. She remained at Clare College to study for a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in classical archaeology. Her doctoral supervisor was Anthony Snodgrass. Her doctoral thesis, titled \"Settlement and exploitation in the region of the Corinthian Gulf, c.1000-700 BC\", was completed in 1986.\n\nMorgan began her academic career as a Junior Research Fellow of Trinity Hall, Cambridge between 1983 and 1986. She was then a Senior Research Fellow of Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge. She moved from the University of Cambridge to Royal Holloway, University of London in 1992. There, she was a lecturer in classics until 1997. \n\nIn 1997, Morgan moved to King's College London. She was a Lecturer and then Reader, before being appointed Professor of Classical Archaeology in 2005. In 2012, she was Visiting Professor at the Australian Archaeological Institute at Athens. From 2007 to 2015, she served as the twenty second Director of the British School at Athens.\n\nIn October 2015, she was appointed a Senior Research Fellow in classics at All Souls College, University of Oxford. She is also Professor of Classics and Archaeology at the University of Oxford.\n\nIn the 2012 Queen's Birthday Honours, Morgan was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) 'for services to classical scholarship'.\n\nIn 2011, Morgan was elected a Corresponding Member of the Archaeological Institute of America. In May 2014, she was elected a Corresponding Member of the German Archaeological Institute. She is also an Honorary Member of the Archaeological Society of Athens. In July 2016, she was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the UK's national academy for the humanities and the social sciences.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1719292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1719292", "title": "Counterfeit money", "text": "Counterfeit money\n\nCounterfeit money is imitation currency produced without the legal sanction of the state or government. Producing or using counterfeit money is a form of fraud or forgery. Counterfeiting is almost as old as money itself. Plated copies (known as Fourrées) have been found of Lydian coins which are thought to be among the first western coins. Before the introduction of paper money, the most prevalent method of counterfeiting involved mixing base metals with pure gold or silver. A form of counterfeiting is the production of documents by legitimate printers in response to fraudulent instructions. During World War II, the Nazis forged British pounds and American dollars. Today some of the finest counterfeit banknotes are called \"Superdollars\" because of their high quality and likeness to the real US dollar. There has been significant counterfeiting of Euro banknotes and coins since the launch of the currency in 2002, but considerably less than for the US dollar.\n\nSome of the ill-effects that counterfeit money has on society include a reduction in the value of real money; and increase in prices (inflation) due to more money getting circulated in the economy - an unauthorized artificial increase in the money supply; a decrease in the acceptability of paper money; and losses, when traders are not reimbursed for counterfeit money detected by banks, even if it is confiscated. Traditionally, anti-counterfeiting measures involved including fine detail with raised intaglio printing on bills which allows non-experts to easily spot forgeries. On coins, \"milled\" or \"reeded\" (marked with parallel grooves) edges are used to show that none of the valuable metal has been scraped off.\n\nCounterfeiting is as old as money itself, and is sufficiently prevalent throughout history that it has been called \"the world's \"second\" oldest profession.\" Coinage of money began in the Greek city of Lydia around 600 B.C. Before the introduction of paper money, the most prevalent method of counterfeiting involved mixing base metals with pure gold or silver. A common practice was to \"shave\" the edges of a coin. This is known as \"clipping.\" Precious metals collected in this way could be used to produce counterfeit coinage. A fourrée is an ancient type of counterfeit coin, in which a base metal core has been plated with a precious metal to resemble its solid metal counterpart.\n\nWhen paper money was introduced in China in the 13th century, wood from mulberry trees was used to make the money. To control access to the paper, guards were stationed around mulberry forests, while counterfeiters were punished by death.\n\nIn the 13th century Mastro Adamo was mentioned by Dante Alighieri as a counterfeiter of the Florentine fiorino, punished with death by hanging. The English couple Thomas and Anne Rogers were convicted on 15 October 1690 for \"Clipping 40 pieces of Silver.\" Thomas Rogers was hanged, drawn and quartered while Anne Rogers was burnt alive. Evidence supplied by an informant led to the arrest of the last of the English Coiners \"King\" David Hartley, who was executed by hanging in 1770. The extreme forms of punishment were meted out for acts of treason against state or Crown, rather than simple crime.\nIn the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, Irish immigrants to London were particularly associated with the spending (uttering) of counterfeit money, while locals were more likely to participate in the safer and more profitable forms of currency crime, which could take place behind locked doors. These include producing the false money and selling it wholesale.\n\nSimilarly, in America, Colonial paper currency printed by Benjamin Franklin and others often bore the phrase \"to counterfeit is death.\" The theory behind such harsh punishments was that one who had the skills to counterfeit currency was considered a threat to the safety of the State, and had to be eliminated. Another explanation is the fact that issuing money that people could trust was both an economic imperative, as well as a (where applicable) Royal prerogative; therefore counterfeiting was a crime against the state or ruler itself, rather than against the person who received the fake money. Far more fortunate was an earlier practitioner of the same art, active in the time of the Emperor Justinian. Rather than executing Alexander the Barber, the Emperor chose to employ his talents in the government's own service.\n\nNations have used counterfeiting as a means of warfare. The idea is to overflow the enemy's economy with fake bank notes, so that the real value of the money plummets. Great Britain did this during the American Revolutionary War to reduce the value of the Continental Dollar. The counterfeiters for the British were known as \"shovers,\" presumably for the ability to \"shove\" the fake currency into circulation. Two of the most well-known shovers for the British during the Revolutionary War were David Farnsworth and John Blair. They were caught with 10,000 dollars in counterfeits when arrested. George Washington took a personal interest in their case and even called for them to be tortured to discover further information. They were eventually hanged for their crimes.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, the Confederate States dollar was heavily counterfeited by private interests on the Union side, often without the sanction of the Union government in Washington. The Confederacy's access to modern printing technology was limited while many Northern-made imitations were printed on high quality banknote paper procured through extralegal means. As a result, counterfeit Southern notes were often equal or even superior in quality compared to genuine Confederate money.\n\nIn 1834, counterfeit copper coins manufactured in the United States were seized from several ships with American flags in Brazil. The practice seemed to end after that.\n\nA form of counterfeiting is the production of documents by legitimate printers in response to fraudulent instructions. An example of this is the Portuguese Bank Note Crisis of 1925, when the British banknote printers Waterlow and Sons produced Banco de Portugal notes equivalent in value to 0.88% of the Portuguese nominal Gross Domestic Product, with identical serial numbers to existing banknotes, in response to a fraud perpetrated by Alves dos Reis. Similarly, in 1929 the issue of postage stamps celebrating the Millennium of Iceland's parliament, the Althing, was compromised by the insertion of \"1\" on the print order, before the authorised value of stamps to be produced (see Postage stamps and postal history of Iceland.)\n\nIn 1926 a came to light in Hungary, when several people were arrested in the Netherlands while attempting to procure 10 million francs' worth of fake French 1000-franc bills which had been produced in Hungary; after 3 years, the state-sponsored industrial scale counterfeit operation had finally collapsed. The League of Nations' investigation found Hungary's motives were to avenge its post-WWI territorial losses (blamed on Georges Clemenceau) and to use profits from the counterfeiting business to boost a militarist, border-revisionist ideology. Germany and Austria had an active role in the conspiracy, which required special machinery. The quality of fake bills was still substandard however, owing to France's use of exotic raw paper material imported from its colonies.\n\nDuring World War II, the Nazis attempted to implement a similar plan (Operation Bernhard) against the Allies. The Nazis took Jewish artists in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp and forced them to forge British pounds and American dollars. The quality of the counterfeiting was very good, and it was almost impossible to distinguish between the real and fake bills. Unable to enact planned aerial drops of the counterfeits over Britain, most notes were disposed of and not recovered until the 1950s.\n\nToday some of the finest counterfeit banknotes are called \"Superdollars\" because of their high quality, and likeness to the real US dollar. The sources of such supernotes are disputed, with North Korea being vocally accused by US authorities. The amount of counterfeit United States currency is estimated to be less than $3 per $10,000, with less than $3 per $100,000 being difficult to detect.\n\nThere has been a rapid growth in the counterfeiting of euro banknotes and coins since the launch of the currency in 2002. In 2003, 551,287 fake euro notes and 26,191 bogus euro coins were removed from EU circulation. In 2004, French police seized fake 10 euro and 20 euro notes worth a total of around €1.8 million from two laboratories and estimated that 145,000 notes had already entered circulation.\n\nIn the early years of the 21st century, the United States Secret Service has noted a substantial reduction in the quantity of forged U.S. currency, as counterfeiters turn their attention towards the Euro.\n\nA batch of counterfeit A$50 and A$100 notes were released into the Australian city of Melbourne in July 2013. As of July 12, 2013, 40 reports had been made between the northern suburbs of Heidelberg and Epping. Police spokespersons explained to the public in media reports that the currency notes were printed on paper (Australia introduced Polymer banknotes in 1988) and could be easily detected by scrunching up the note or tearing it. Additionally, the clear window within the notes was also an easy way to identify fake versions, as the \"window appears to have been cut out with two clear plastic pieces stuck together with stars placed in the middle to replicate the Southern Cross.\" Police also revealed that fake notes had been seized in June 2013 in Melbourne's eastern and western suburbs. According to the Australian RBA figures, during 2014-15, the number of counterfeit $50 currency detected in circulation has more than doubled from the previous year, and more than 33,000 fake notes were removed from circulation. The officials believe this likely a fraction of the amount of fake currencies currently flooding through in Victoria and NSW states. On 31 May 2016, the ACT police have warned people to keep an eye out for fake $50 notes, which is circulating throughout Canberra in recent months. The officers have been called out to more than 35 businesses over the past two months in connection to counterfeit $50 notes.Australian Federal Police have charged two persons alleging to have produced $16,465 notes of counterfeit currency and charged them with various offences under the Crimes (Currency) Act 1981. The police say that Australian notes are hard to counterfeit, with many security features. However, urged people to take a close look each time they spend cash.\n\nSome of the ill-effects that counterfeit money has on society include:\n\nAt the same time, in countries where paper money is a small fraction of the total money in circulation, the macroeconomic effects of counterfeiting of currency may not be significant. The microeconomic effects, such as confidence in currency, however, may be large.\n\nTraditionally, anti-counterfeiting measures involved including fine detail with raised intaglio printing on bills which would allow non-experts to easily spot forgeries. On coins, \"milled\" or \"reeded\" (marked with parallel grooves) edges are used to show that none of the valuable metal has been scraped off. This detects the \"shaving\" or \"clipping\" (paring off) of the rim of the coin. However, it does not detect \"sweating\", or shaking coins in a bag and collecting the resulting dust. Since this technique removes a smaller amount, it is primarily used on the most valuable coins, such as gold. In early paper money in Colonial North America, one creative means of deterring counterfeiters was to print the impression of a leaf in the bill. Since the patterns found in a leaf were unique and complex, they were nearly impossible to reproduce.\n\nIn the late twentieth century advances in computer and photocopy technology made it possible for people without sophisticated training to copy currency easily. In response, national engraving bureaus began to include new more sophisticated anti-counterfeiting systems such as holograms, multi-colored bills, embedded devices such as strips, microprinting, watermarks and inks whose colors changed depending on the angle of the light, and the use of design features such as the \"EURion constellation\" which disables modern photocopiers. Software programs such as Adobe Photoshop have been modified by their manufacturers to obstruct manipulation of scanned images of banknotes. There also exist patches to counteract these measures.\n\nRecently, there has been a discovery of new tests that could be used on U.S. Federal Reserve Notes to ensure that the bills are authentic. These tests are done using intrinsic fluorescence lifetime. This allows for detection of counterfeit money because of the significance in difference of fluorescence lifetime when compared to authentic money.\n\nFor U.S. currency, anti-counterfeiting milestones are as follows:\n\nThe redesigned $100 bill was unveiled on April 21, 2010, and the Federal Reserve Board was to begin issuing the new bill on February 10, 2011, but the release was delayed until October 2013.\n\nThe Treasury had made no plans to redesign the $5 bill using colors, but recently reversed its decision, after learning some counterfeiters were bleaching the ink off the bills and printing them as $100 bills. The new $10 bill (the design of which was revealed in late 2005) entered circulation on March 2, 2006. The $1 bill and $2 bill are seen by most counterfeiters as having too low a value to counterfeit, and so they have not been redesigned as frequently as higher denominations.\n\nIn the 1980s counterfeiting in the Republic of Ireland twice resulted in sudden changes in official documents: in November 1984 the £1 postage stamp, also used on savings cards for paying television licences and telephone bills, was invalidated and replaced by another design at a few days' notice, because of widespread counterfeiting. Later, the £20 Central Bank of Ireland Series B banknote was rapidly replaced because of what the Finance Minister described as \"the involuntary privatisation of banknote printing\".\n\nIn the 1990s, the portrait of Chairman Mao Zedong was placed on the banknotes of the People's Republic of China to combat counterfeiting, as he was recognised better than the generic designs on the renminbi notes.\n\nIn 1988 the Reserve Bank of Australia released the world's first long lasting and counterfeit-resistant polymer (plastic) banknotes with a special Bicentennial $10 note issue. After problems with this bill were discovered and addressed, in 1992 a problem-free $5 note was issued. In 1996 Australia became the first country to have a full series of circulating polymer banknotes.\nOn 3 May 1999 the Reserve Bank of New Zealand started circulating polymer banknotes printed by Note Printing Australia Limited. The technology developed is now used in 26 countries. Note Printing Australia is currently printing polymer notes for 18 countries.\n\nThe Swiss National Bank has a reserve series of notes for the Swiss franc, in case widespread counterfeiting were to take place.\n\n\n\nMoney art is a subject related to counterfeiting that incorporates currency designs or themes. Some of these works of art are similar enough to actual bills that their legality is in question. While a counterfeit is made with deceptive intent, money art is not; however, the law may or may not differentiate between the two. JSG Boggs was an American artist best known for his hand-drawn, one-sided copies of US banknotes, which he sold for the face value of the note.\n\nThe street artist Banksy is known for making 10 pound notes that feature Princess Diana's portrait in place of the Queen, while \"Bank of England\" is replaced by \"Banksy of England\". The artist's original intent was to throw them off a building, but after some of the notes were dropped at a festival he discovered that they could pass for legal tender and changed his mind. As of 2012, Banksy is still in possession of all one hundred million pounds' worth of the currency.\n\nIn 2006, American artist Jack Daws hired metalsmiths to make a mold of a 1970 U.S. penny and cast it in 18-karat gold. He then hired another metalsmith to copper-plate it, after which it looked like an ordinary penny. On March 28, 2007, Daws intentionally put the \"penny\" in circulation at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). The sculpture was discovered in Brooklyn two-and-a-half years later by Jessica Reed, a graphic designer and coin collector, who noticed it while paying for groceries at a local store. Reed eventually communicated with Daws's Seattle art dealer, the Greg Kucera Gallery, and Daws confirmed that she had discovered the Counterfeit Penny sculpture.\n\nIn May 2017, Australian currency training notes (used in-house by Chinese banks in the training of bank tellers) were circulated briefly in Darwin, Northern Territory, with seven cases reported by the Northern Territory Police of notes being offered and taken as real money. The $100 (Australian Dollar) notes had Chinese language characters printed on them, but otherwise had the color and feel of real notes, and the Chinese characters can be disguised when the note is folded. They had been sold through eBay, with the disclaimer of not being for circulation. China also has equivalent $50 (U.S. Dollar) \"training money\", that has previously appeared in the USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "10613835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10613835", "title": "Dmitry Dmitriyevich Smyshlyayev", "text": "Dmitry Dmitriyevich Smyshlyayev\n\nDmitry Dmitriyevich Smyshlyayev () was a Russian historian, ethnographer and politician. He is known for the study of history of Perm and Perm Governorate.\n\nDmitry Dmitriyevich Smyshlyayev was born in Perm, on the March 5, 1828, in the family of Dmitry Yemelyanovich Smyshlyayev, merchant of the 1st guild and mayor of Perm from 1823 to 1826. In 1844 he left the grammar school and assisted his father with commerce until 1857. Then he turned to social and educational activity and study of the local history. He took part in the organization of public reading and Sunday schools, and the foundation of the women's grammar school.\n\nFrom 1858 to 1860 Smyshlyayev published \"The Perm Anthology\" (), which was devoted to history, ethnography and statistics of Perm Governorate.\n\nFrom 1870 to 1879 Smyshlyayev was a chairman of the Governorate Executive Board. He brought up the problems of national education, medicine and improvements of social welfare. In 1872 he founded the journal \"Anthology of Perm Zemstvo\" (). He edited it until 1878 and published 34 issues. Later he edited the unofficial part of \"Perm Governorate News\".\n\nIn 1885 Smyshlyayev visited Jerusalem as a representative of the Imperial Palestina Society. He supported the building of shelters for the Russian pilgrims. The Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem appreciated his services and conferred the title of Knight of Holy Sepulchre on him. Later he returned to Perm and became a Secretary of the Governorat Statistic Committee.\n\nSmyshlyayev died on November 27, 1893. He is buried in Perm at the Yegoshikha Cemetery.\n\nOther publications:\n"}
{"id": "38276600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38276600", "title": "Dominic of Flanders", "text": "Dominic of Flanders\n\nDominic of Flanders (, ) (ca. 1425–1479) was a French-Flemish Dominican philosopher and Scholastic author, known to have been a renowned Thomist. His commentaries on Aristotle and on Thomas Aquinas were frequently printed, the most famous being his commentary on Aristotle’s \"Metaphysics\". This \"Commentaria\" is commonly known to have been dedicated to Lorenzo de’ Medici.\n\nLittle is known of Dominic's early life. He was born Baudouin Lottin, in the north of France near what is today the Belgian border, in either Merville or Merris, a few kilometers away from Bailleul. The political circumstances of the region at the time are such that it is possible to deem him neither a Flemish nor a French philosopher. While born in present-day France (in the region of Lille), it was indeed the County of Flanders during the 15th century, a bilingual region which politically belonged to the Kingdom of France.\n\nBaudouin studied at the University of Paris, becoming a Master of Arts at some time before 1452. At Paris he studied with John Versor, and would receive philosophical training according to the trend of \"Albertism.\" The first known date in the life of Baudouin is September 7, 1461—the day he took the Dominican habit (as well as the name, Dominic of Flanders, following the practice of the Order) at Bologna. Dominic's intellectual home would remain in Italy. At Bologna, it is likely that he studied under Peter of Bergamo (†1482), where he would switch from Albertist views to Thomism. He taught at Bologna from 1462 to 1470. He went on to teach in Florence and Pisa, by the invitation of Lorenzo de' Medici, then returned to Bologna from 1475 to 1476. He finally returned to Florence, where he died of the plague on July 16, 1479.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52874032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52874032", "title": "Elsa Goveia", "text": "Elsa Goveia\n\nElsa Goveia (12 April 1925 – 18 March 1980) was born in British Guiana and became a foremost scholar and historian of the Caribbean. She was the first woman to become a professor at the newly created University College of the West Indies (UCWI) and first professor of West Indian studies in the UCWI History Department. Her seminal work, \"Slave Society in the British Leeward Islands at the End of the Eighteenth Century\" (1965), was a pioneering study of the institution of slavery and the first to put forth the concept of a \"slave society\" encompassing not just the slaves but the entire community. Her research and teaching was widely influential in the region.\n\nElsa Vesta Goveia was born on 12 April 1925 in British Guiana to middle-class, ethnically mixed Portuguese and Afro-Guyanese family. One of two daughters, she was educated in a time when education was rare for even males in British Guiana. After winning a scholarship, she attended St. Joseph High School at the Convent of Mercy in Georgetown and graduated with her certificate. In 1944, she won the national British Guiana Scholarship and continued her education, studying history at University College London. She won the Pollard Prize for English history in 1947, becoming the first West Indian to win the scholarship, graduating with First Class Honors for her degree in 1948. Furthering her studies, Goveia attended the Institute of Historical Research in London under the tutelage of Eveline Martin until 1950, when she returned to the Caribbean and accepted a post at the newly created University College of the West Indies, as an assistant lecturer. Continuing her research during 1950 and 1951, Goveia prepared her thesis \"Slave Society in the British Leeward Islands 1780-1800\", submitted it the following year and earned her PhD in 1952.\n\nUpon receipt of her degree, Goveia became a Lecturer and taught in the History Department of UCWI. Her courses focused on topics which had been elucidated in her doctoral thesis. Prior to Goveia, history of the Caribbean had focused on the economics of slavery and its political implications, following a chronological sequence without regard to the larger context. Goveia, instead, analyzed the sociological impact of the slaves, free blacks, and other elements of society and how they functioned both as separate communities and as part of the whole. She recognized that the entire culture was built upon a \"slave society\" wherein relationships were defined not only by color but by maintaining a structure based upon superiority and inferiority; the interdependency of the group produced coherency in the society. She did not advocate remaining silent and shamed about past slavery, instead arguing that only by acknowledging and confronting the past could \"human beings change what human beings made\". At a time when historians mainly focused on the achievement and development the colonizers brought to the colonies, Goveia as an insider, approached history from the perspective of the colonized. It was an innovation to scholarship that forced scholars to consider the social history and a more interdisciplinary approach to analysis, questioning the historiography of the region.\n\nBeginning in 1952 at the request of the Pan-American Institute of Geography and History, Goveia undertook a study that was to become one of her most important works, \"Study on the Historiography of the British West Indies\". She researched and wrote parts of the project over a two-year period for the Pan-American Institute, which published it in 1956. In the years since its publication, the study has been called one of the two seminal works on historiography published in the 1960s; one of the most influential works; a serious contribution to scholarship; and a catalyst which caused other historians to \"probe the inner dynamics of West Indian societies, economies, and polities…\". She published other essays and analyses, such as \"The West Indian Slave Laws of the Eighteenth Century\", which appeared in a series published by UCWI called \"Chapters in West Indian History\", which were perceptive and insightful.\n\nIn 1958, Goveia was made a Senior Lecturer and then in 1961 was appointed as a professor in West Indian History. The appointment was historic, as she simultaneously became the first (and only) female professor at UCWI, as well as the first Caribbean-born professor of West Indian History. In 1965, her thesis was published under the title of \"Slave Society in the British Leeward Islands at the End of the Eighteenth Century\". Like her \"Study on Historiography\" the book became widely influential, being one of the first works to define the term \"slave society\" and its inner-workings. Rather than a \"colonial society\", which effectively left out slaves and free blacks, Goveia's focus was on the whole society and did not merely examine how slavery effected the state, but rather how the people involved were effected by the institution itself. Pointedly, she noted that rivalries between the various islands in the Caribbean were a result of the broader system, which simultaneously united and divided them. Because the \"system\" required that they support the hierarchy, individual islands communicated with their colonizers, rather than among themselves and competed for status rather than overall improvement of the citizenry.\n\nFrom 1961, Goveia had health issues which curtailed her publishing output to an extent, but she continued teaching until her untimely death at age fifty-five.\n\nGoveia died at her home in Hope Mews Kingston, Saint Andrew Parish, Jamaica on 18 March 1980. In 1985, a lecture series named the Elsa Goveia Memorial Lectures was inaugurated and continues to highlight scholarship on the history of the Caribbean. In 1989, the reading room at the library on the Mona Campus to the University of the West Indies was renamed in Goveia honor. Since 1995, the Association of Caribbean Historians has awarded the Elsa Goveia Prize to scholars who have exhibited excellence in the study of Caribbean history. She was one of the pioneers of historical research on slavery and the Caribbean and is considered the \"premier social historian\" from the 1960s to her death.\n\n"}
{"id": "30694911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30694911", "title": "Eustathius of Epiphania", "text": "Eustathius of Epiphania\n\nEustathius of Epiphania (, died after 518) was a sixth-century Byzantine historian. \n\nEustathius was born in Epiphania (modern Hama, Syria). He was probably a Christian and wrote in the time of the emperor Anastasius I a history (\"Chronological Epitome\") from the fall of Troy to the 12th year of Anastasius (502/3) in two parts. The chronicle was used by later historians, but only a few fragments remain preserved in Evagrius Scholasticus, the Suda and John Malalas. According to Evagrius, Eustathius's work was an epitome (a compilation, not an abridgement) of pagan and ecclesiastical writers.\n\nEustathius is also known to have compiled an epitome of Josephus (\"Historikon of the Judaean Archaeology by Iosepos\"). It is likely the same as a short 13th/14th-century text preserved in Paris. It begins with Adam and Eve and reaches to the reign of Vespasian and Titus.\n\n"}
{"id": "215836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215836", "title": "Eye for an eye", "text": "Eye for an eye\n\n\"Only one eye for one eye\", also known as \"An eye for an eye\" or \"A tooth for a tooth\", or the law of retaliation, is the principle that a person who has injured another person is to be penalized to a similar degree, and the person inflicting such punishment should be the injured party. In softer interpretations, it means the victim receives the [estimated] value of the injury in compensation. The intent behind the principle was to \"restrict\" compensation to the value of the loss.\n\nThe principle is sometimes referred using the Latin term lex talionis or the law of talion. The English word talion (from the Latin\" talio\") means a retaliation authorized by law, in which the punishment corresponds in kind and degree to the injury.\n\nThe term lex talionis does not always and only refer to literal eye-for-an-eye codes of justice (see rather mirror punishment) but applies to the broader class of legal systems that specify formulate penalties for specific crimes, which are thought to be fitting in their severity. Some propose that this was at least in part intended to prevent excessive punishment at the hands of either an avenging private party or the state. The most common expression of lex talionis is \"an eye for an eye\", but other interpretations have been given as well. Legal codes following the principle of \"lex talionis\" have one thing in common: prescribed 'fitting' counter punishment for a felony. In the famous legal code written by Hammurabi, the principle of exact reciprocity is very clearly used. For example, if a person caused the death of another person, the killer would be put to death.\n\nThe simplest example is the \"eye for an eye\" principle. In that case, the rule was that punishment must be exactly equal to the crime. Conversely, the twelve tables of Rome merely prescribed particular penalties for particular crimes. The Anglo-Saxon legal code substituted payment of wergild for direct retribution: a particular person's life had a fixed value, derived from his social position; any homicide was compensated by paying the appropriate wergild, regardless of intent. Under the British Common Law, successful plaintiffs were entitled to repayment equal to their loss (in monetary terms). In the modern tort law system, this has been extended to translate non-economic losses into money as well. The meaning of the principle Eye for an Eye is that a person who has been injured by another person returns the offending action to the originator in compensation, or that an authority does so on behalf of the injured person. The exact Latin (lex talionis) to English translation of this phrase is \"The law of retaliation.\" The root principle of this law is to provide equitable retribution.\n\nVarious ideas regarding the origins of \"lex talionis\" exist, but a common one is that it developed as early civilizations grew and a less well-established system for retribution of wrongs, feuds and vendettas, threatened the social fabric. Despite having been replaced with newer modes of legal theory, \"lex talionis\" systems served a critical purpose in the development of social systems—the establishment of a body whose purpose was to enact the retaliation and ensure that this was the only punishment. This body was the state in one of its earliest forms.\n\nThe principle is found in Babylonian Law. If it is surmised that in societies not bound by the rule of law, if a person was hurt, then the injured person (or their relative) would take vengeful retribution on the person who caused the injury. The retribution might be worse than the crime, perhaps even death. Babylonian law put a limit on such actions, restricting the retribution to be no worse than the crime, as long as victim and offender occupied the same status in society. As with blasphemy or lèse-majesté (crimes against a god or a monarch), crimes against one's social betters were punished more severely.\n\nRoman law moved toward monetary compensation as a substitute for vengeance. In cases of assault, fixed penalties were set for various injuries, although \"talio\" was still permitted if one person broke another's limb.\n\nThe principle was first referenced in the Code of Hammurabi, which predates the Hebrew bible. In the Hebrew Law, the \"eye for eye\" was to \"restrict\" compensation to the value of the loss. Thus, it might be better read 'only one eye for one eye'. The idiomatic biblical phrase \"an eye for an eye\" in Exodus and Leviticus (, ayin tachat ayin) literally means 'an eye under/(in place of) an eye' while a slightly different phrase (עַיִן בְּעַיִן שֵׁן בְּשֵׁן, literally \"eye for an eye; tooth for a tooth\") is used in another passage (Deuteronomy) in the context of possible reciprocal court sentences for failed false witnesses. The passage in Leviticus states, \"And a man who injures his countrymanas he has done, so it shall be done to him [namely,] fracture under/for fracture, eye under/for eye, tooth under/for tooth. Just as another person has received injury from him, so it will be given to him.\" (Lev. 24:19–21). For an example of being used in its regular sense of \"under\", see Lev. 22:27 \"A bull, sheep or goat, when it is born shall remain under its mother, and from the eighth day...\"\n\nIsaac Kalimi explains that the \"lex talionis was humanized by the Rabbis who interpreted \"an eye for an eye\" to mean reasonable pecuniary compensation. As in the case of the Babylonian 'lex talionis', ethical Judaism and humane Jewish jurisprudence replaces the \"peshat\" (literal meaning) of the written Torah. Pasachoff and Littman point to the reinterpretation of the lex talionis as an example of the ability of Pharisaic Judaism to \"adapt to changing social and intellectual ideas.\"\n\nThe Talmud interprets the verses referring to \"an eye for an eye\" and similar expressions as mandating monetary compensation in tort cases and argues against the interpretations by Sadducees that the Bible verses refer to physical retaliation in kind, using the argument that such an interpretation would be inapplicable to blind or eyeless offenders. Since the Torah requires that penalties be universally applicable, the phrase cannot be interpreted in this manner.\nHowever, the Torah also discusses a form of direct reciprocal justice, where the phrase \"ayin tachat ayin\" makes another appearance. Here, the Torah discusses false witnesses who conspire to testify against another person. The Torah requires the court to \"do to him as he had conspired to do to his brother\". Assuming the fulfillment of certain technical criteria (such as the sentencing of the accused whose punishment was not yet executed), wherever it is possible to punish the conspirators with exactly the same punishment through which they had planned to harm their fellow, the court carries out this direct reciprocal justice (including when the punishment constitutes the death penalty). Otherwise, the offenders receive lashes.\n\nSince there is no form of punishment in the Torah that calls for the maiming of an offender (punitary amputation) there is no case where a conspiratorial false witness could possibly be punished by the court injuring to his eye, tooth, hand, or foot. There is one case where the Torah states \"…and you shall cut off her hand…\" The sages of the Talmud understood the literal meaning of this verse as referring to a case where the woman is attacking a man in potentially lethal manner. This verse teaches that, although one must intervene to save the victim, one may not kill a lethal attacker if it is possible to neutralize that attacker through non-lethal injury. Regardless, there is no verse that even appears to mandate injury to the eye, tooth, or foot.\n\nThe Talmud discusses the concept of justice as measure-for-measure retribution (\"middah k'neged middah\") in the context of divinely implemented justice. Regarding reciprocal justice by court, however, the Torah states that punishments serve to remove dangerous elements from society (\"…and you shall eliminate the evil from your midst\") and to deter potential criminals from violating the law (\"And the rest shall hear and be daunted, and they shall no longer commit anything like this evil deed in your midst\"). Additionally, reciprocal justice in tort cases serves to compensate the victim (see above).\n\nThe ideal of vengeance for the sake of assuaging the distress of the victim plays no role in the Torah's conception of court justice, as victims are cautioned against even hating or bearing a grudge against those who have harmed them. The Torah makes no distinction between whether the potential object of hatred or a grudge has been brought to justice, and all people are taught to love their fellow Israelites.\n\nIn Exodus 21, as in the Code of Hammurabi, the concept of reciprocal justice seemingly applies to social equals; the statement of reciprocal justice \"life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe\" is followed by an example of a different law: if a slave-owner blinds the eye or knocks out the tooth of a slave, the slave is freed but the owner pays no other consequence. On the other hand, the slave would probably be put to death for the injury of the eye of the slave-owner.\n\nHowever the reciprocal justice applies across social boundaries: the \"eye for eye\" principle is directly followed by the proclamation \"You are to have one law for the alien and the citizen.\" This shows a much more meaningful principle for social justice, in that the marginalized in society were given the same rights under the social structure. In this context, the reciprocal justice in an ideal functioning setting, according to Michael Coogan, \"to prevent people from taking the law into their own hands and exacting disproportionate vengeance for offenses committed against them.\"\n\nIn the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus urges his followers to turn the other cheek:\nSome interpret this as an admonition not to seek legal steps for any compensation that corresponds in kind and degree to the injury. Others interpret it as Jesus simply teaching his followers not to take personal vengeance, rather than commenting on any legal practice.\n\nChristian interpretation of the Biblical passage has been heavily influenced by the Church father Augustine of Hippo. He already discussed in his \"Contra Faustum\", Book XIX, the points of 'fulfilment or destruction' of the Jewish law. George Robinson characterizes the passage of Exodus (\"an eye for an eye\") as one of the \"most controversial in the Bible\". According to Robinson, some have pointed to this passage as evidence of the vengeful nature of justice in the Hebrew Bible. Similarly, Abraham Bloch speculates that the \"lex talionis has been singled out as a classical example of biblical harshness.\" Harry S. Lewis points to Lamech, Gideon and Samson as Biblical heroes who were renowned for \"their prowess in executing blood revenge upon their public and private enemies.\" Lewis asserts that this \"right of 'wild' justice was gradually limited.\" Stephen Wylen asserts that the lex talionis is \"proof of the unique value of each individual\" and that it teaches \"equality of all human beings for law.\"\n\nThe Qur'an mentions the \"eye for an eye\" concept as being ordained for the Children of Israel. The principle of Lex talionis in Islam is Qiṣāṣ (Arabic: قصاص) as mentioned in : \"O you who have believed, prescribed for you is legal retribution (\"Qisas\") for those murdered – the free for the free, the slave for the slave, and the female for the female. But whoever overlooks from his brother anything, then there should be a suitable follow-up and payment to him with good conduct. This is an alleviation from your Lord and a mercy. But whoever transgresses after that will have a painful punishment.\" Muslim countries that use Islamic \"Sharia\" law, such as Iran or Saudi Arabia, apply the \"eye for an eye\" rule literally.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "898783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898783", "title": "Flodoard", "text": "Flodoard\n\nFlodoard (of Reims) (893/4 – 28 March 966) was a canon, chronicler, and presumed archivist of the cathedral church of Reims in the West Frankish kingdom during the decades following the dissolution of the Carolingian Empire.\n\nAccording to local tradition, Flodoard was born at Épernay. He was educated at the cathedral school of Reims which had been established by Archbishop Fulk (882–900).\n\nAs a canon of Reims, and favourite of the archbishops Heriveus (d. 922) and Seulf (d. 925), he occupied while still young an important position in the archiepiscopal ministry, and in particular in the cathedral scriptorium. Following Seulf's death in 925, the magnate Herbert II, Count of Vermandois installed his five-year-old son, Hugh, as the new archbishop. Flodoard refused to participate in the young boy's election, and was stripped of his position and benefices. In 931, Reims was taken from Count Herbert by King Raoul and Duke Hugh the Great, who ejected Hugh and oversaw the election of a new archbishop, Artold. In 936-7, Flodoard visited Rome, perhaps on pilgrimage, where he met Pope Leo VII. Herbert recaptured Reims in 940, deposing Artold and reimposing Hugh on the see. Flodoard objected to the invasion of the bishopric on canonical grounds; consequently, he was detained by Herbert and once again stripped of his prebends. Between 943-6, Flodoard appears to have been away from Reims with the court of King Louis IV. In 946, Louis recaptured Reims with the backing of Otto I. Hugh was again deposed, and Artold was re-ordained. His claim to the see was eventually ratified at the 948 Synod of Ingelheim, which Flodoard attended.\n\nIn 951, Flodoard was sent to Otto's court at Aachen, where he represented the church of Reims in a property dispute. He retired from his canonical office in 963, aged 70, and died on 28 March 966.\n\nHis history of the church of Reims (\"Historia Remensis Ecclesiae\") is one of the most remarkable productions of the 10th century. Flodoard had been given charge of the episcopal archives, and constructed his history out of the original texts, which he generally reproduces in full; the documents for the period of Hincmar being especially valuable.\n\nThe \"Annales\" which Flodoard wrote year by year from 919 to 966 are doubly important, by reason of the author's honesty and the central position of Reims in European affairs in his time.\n\nFlodoard's poetical works are of hardly less historical interest. The long poem celebrating the triumph of Christ and His saints was called forth by the favour shown him by Pope Leo VII, during whose pontificate he visited Rome, and he devotes fourteen books to the history of the popes.\n\nFlodoard's works were published in full by JP Migne (\"Patrologia Latina\", vol. 135); a modern edition of the \"Annales\" is the one edited by Philippe Lauer (Paris, 1906). For bibliography see Auguste Molinier, \"Sources de l'histoire de France\" (No. 932).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29126976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29126976", "title": "Giolla Íosa Mac Fir Bisigh", "text": "Giolla Íosa Mac Fir Bisigh\n\nGilla Isa Mac Fir Bisigh (died 1301) was an Irish historian, poet, mathematician and astronomer.\n\n\"Sub anno\" 1301, the Annals of Connacht record the death of \"Gilla Isa Mac Fir Bisig, ollam of the Ui Fiachrach Muaide, a master of history and tales and poetry, of the Computus and of many other arts.\"\n\nHis family, the clan Mac Fhirbhisigh, were at the time resident in what is now County Mayo. His father was Gilla Isa Mor Mac Fir Bisigh. Other notable members of his family were\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2684254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2684254", "title": "Halvdan Koht", "text": "Halvdan Koht\n\nHalvdan Koht (7 July 1873 – 12 December 1965) was a Norwegian historian and politician representing the Labour Party.\n\nBorn in the north of Norway to a fairly distinguished family, he soon became interested in politics and history. Starting his political career in the Liberal Party, he switched to the Labour Party around the turn of the 20th century. He represented that party in the Bærum municipal council for parts of the interwar period. He was never elected a member of Parliament, but served nonetheless as Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1935 to 1941, as part of the government-in-exile following Germany's invasion of Norway. In the latter capacity he sought to preserve Norway's neutrality in the Second World War, an action that garnered him political infamy. Growing discontentment with Koht's political decisions ultimately led to his exit from the cabinet. After the war, however, he returned to an academic career track and wrote major works in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nAs an academic he was a professor of history at the Royal Frederick University (now the University of Oslo) from 1910 to 1935, having become a research fellow in 1900 and docent in 1908. Among many honors, he held an honorary degree at the University of Oxford. He was a prolific writer, and touched on numerous subjects during his long academic career. He wrote several biographies; his works on Johan Sverdrup and Henrik Ibsen spanned several volumes each. He became known for syntheses on Norwegian history, and emphasised the roles of peasants and wage labourers as historical agents who found their place in an expanding notion of the Norwegian nation. He was also interested in the United States and its history, and was a pioneer in Norway in this respect.\n\nKoht's views on the Norwegian language also garnered him nationwide academic recognition. He championed the Samnorsk language reform, the declared aim of which was to consolidate the two standards of written Norwegian. A reform pushing the formal written language in this direction was indeed implemented in 1938, but historical events led to the failure of this policy. A pertinacious and unyielding advocate of international peace, Koht was a founding member of the Norwegian Peace Association and an ordinary member of the Norwegian Nobel Committee. As an activist and politician he was described as a strong-willed and individualistic, and nurturing a strong belief in taking an academic and legal perspective on political problems.\n\nHalvdan Koht was born on 7 August 1873 in Tromsø, one of the larger cities in Northern Norway. He was the second of four children born to Paul Steenstrup Koht (1844–1892), an educator and politician, and Betty Giæver (1845–1936), a part-time teacher with a penchant for singing, languages and drawing. Betty's antecedents were mixed: she was maternally descended from Northern Germany, yet on her father's side she was of Norwegian origin—a distinguished forebear on that side was her great-grandfather, the civil servant Jens Holmboe from Tromsø. Through the offspring of his maternal grand-uncle, Halvdan Koht was a third cousin of the parliamentarian Ola Krogseng Giæver. In Paul Koht's lineage, Kjeld Stub was a distant ancestor. The name Koht stems from German immigrants to Norway in the 17th century.\n\nHe was intended to have the name Joachim, but this was stopped on request from Joachim G. Giæver who voiced his dislike for the name. He was then christened Halfdan, changed to Halvdan some years later. The family lived in Tromsø, where Paul Steenstrup Koht was a headmaster and mayor. The family moved to Skien when Halvdan was twelve years old, where his father again immersed himself in politics: he served as mayor as well as parliamentarian for the Liberal Party. Koht finished school here, taking his examen artium in 1890. His father was among his teachers for a while in Norwegian and Greek. In 1893, one year after the death of Koht's father, the family moved to Bekkelaget, a borough in Aker. Koht studied at the Royal Frederick University (now the University of Oslo).\n\nIn September 1898 in Kristiania, Koht married Karen Elisabeth Grude (1871–1960), an essay writer and women's rights activist one and a half years his senior; she bore him three children. One child died in infancy, but the remaining two had distinguished careers: Åse Gruda Skard (née Koht) became a child psychologist and Paul Koht an ambassador. Through Åsa, Halvdan Koht was a father-in-law of literary scholar Sigmund Skard and a grandfather of politician and academic Torild Skard, psychologist and ombud Målfrid Grude Flekkøy and politician and organisational leader Halvdan Skard. In the late 1920s, Karen's declining health and Halvdan's preoccupation with his work placed a strain on their relationship. Disenchanted with the loveless union, Koht entered several extramarital friendships in the following decade, often pen friends. During the Second World War, there were rumors about a romantic relationship with his secretary Unni Diesen. After 1945 the relationship to Karen regrew in strength.\n\nKoht graduated with a cand.philol. degree from the Royal Frederick University in 1896. He studied history with geography as a minor subject until 1895; his main history teacher was Gustav Storm. The next examination was in different languages, both classical and modern. Koht had the choice between Ancient Greek and Classical Latin or Norwegian and German (including Norse); he chose the Norwegian and German. In 1895, after finishing his history studies, he spent three months in the Mediterranean, travelling with three ships, the first from Norway to Venice, the second from Venice to Constantinople, the third back to Norway. He studied German literature during this travels. In December 1896 Koht was finally examined by Sophus Bugge and earned his degree. He was one of just three students to be examined in Norwegian and German in late 1896, and had been the only candidate in history the previous year.\n\nA break from the studies came in the second half of 1892. After his father's death, he could not afford to attend university that semester. He worked briefly as a private tutor in the Skien district, and was paid to write in the newspaper \"Varden\". On returning to his studies he worked as a Kristiania correspondent for the newspaper; eventually he also worked for \"Päivälehti\". In 1901 he took over from Erik Vullum as obituarist and anniversary writer in \"Verdens Gang\". In the next years he would contribute extensively to publications such as \"Den 17de Mai\", \"Nationalbladet\", \"Nordmanns-Forbundets tidsskrift\", \"Syn og Segn\", \"Samtiden\", \"Unglyden\", \"Dagbladet\", \"Verdens Gang\" and \"Tidens Tegn\"; these were mostly Liberal or Norwegian nationalist publications.\n\nFor some months after graduating Koht worked as an unpaid volunteer at the University Library of Oslo, while also continuing to attend university lectures. He was then given a scholarship, the \"Gustav Bruun Endowment\" of . The University doublled Koht's award to NOK 3600. From 1897 to 1899 he studied abroad with this fellowship. He studied at the University of Copenhagen, the University of Leipzig and in Paris (École des hautes études, École des Chartes). He was especially influenced by Karl Lamprecht in Leipzig.\n\nFrom 1899 to 1901 Koht worked as a substitute at the University Library of Oslo, and part-time as a school teacher. He was also engaged by Gustav Storm to help him with publishing the source text \"Regesta Norvegica\". In 1908, after eight years of work, Koht completed the two last volumes of \"Norsk Forfatter-lexikon\", a biographical dictionary of Norwegian writers. However, it was a posthumous work, the principal author—Jens Braage Halvorsen—having died in 1900.\n\nIn 1901 he was appointed as a research fellow at the Royal Frederick University. He rarely had responsibility for any teaching of the students, and since he was often busy with \"Norsk Forfatter-lexikon\" he remained a research fellow until 1907. In 1908 he took his dr.philos. degree on the thesis \"Die Stellung Norwegens und Schwedens im Deutsch-Dänischen Konflikt 1863–1864\". Opponents at the dissertation were Ebbe Hertzberg and Yngvar Nielsen.\n\nKoht was then hired as a docent at the University in 1908. Because Koht had internal opponents at the university, the docenture was designated to cover \"cultural history\" instead of \"history\". A while later the university changed it to \"history\". The cabinet changed it back to \"cultural history\", before the Parliament finally decided on \"history\". Koht was going to start his tenure as a docent, but argued with Waldemar Christofer Brøgger that he deserved to travel abroad first. From 1908 to 1909 Koht travelled around in the United States, England and Sweden, visiting the peace conferences in London (1908), Chicago (1909) and Stockholm (1910). During these years, his wife, daughter and her nanny lived in Eidsvoll. Koht then returned to Norway and the university, and remained docent until being promoted to professor in 1910. He remained professor until 1935, and also served as the dean of his Faculty from 1912 to 1917.\n\nKoht faced considerable skepticism among academics when announcing his intentions to study social history from the farmers' perspective. Gustav Storm claimed that farmers in Norway had \"done no effort of their own\". Ludvig Ludvigsen Daae exclaimed that a person whom Koht wanted to study, the farmer-politician John G. Neergaard, was a \"crook ... oh well, trahit sua quemque voluptas\". Koht was given to do research in Nordmøre on Neergaard. In 1896 professor Cathrinus Bang replied to Koht's wish to study social history: \"Yes, do not go out and become a socialist!\"\n\nIn 1910, Koht completed the dissertation \"Bonde mot borgar i nynorsk historie\", in which he further developed his theories on the role of the farmers in history. Published in the journal \"Historisk Tidsskrift\" in 1912, it featured an elaboration on Koht's theory about class and the nation. According to Koht, the community of the nation was expanded in a democratic way when the agrarian movement, then the labour movement, both rose from political passivity to demand a place in the political and national sphere. He wrote about this in the 1910 article \"Norsk folkesamling\" as well. The book \"Norsk bondereisning\", published in 1926 as a compilation of Koht's presented material in his university lectures, represented the culmination of Koht's work on the topic of class conflict between the agrarian and the urban population. Koht argued that the peasant movement had abandoned the cause of class interest in favour of universal rights and social reforms. The same perspective had to be applied to the struggle of the labour movement, Koht maintained. An economic background for the farmers' rising was presented in 1912, in \"Priser og politikk i norsk historie\", originally a lecture for the second Norwegian conference of historians. This lecture was also where his historical materialism came to fruition. In 1951 he stated that he \"has never thought that the theories could be foundational for a political or social uprising\".\n\nKoht's stay in the United States affected his historical views and adaptation of historical materialism, and he also tried to encourage the study of American history in Norway. American culture did not have a particularly high standing in Norway at the time. In school, Koht did not learn proper English. Before he embarked to the US, some historian colleagues insinuated that the country \"barely had any history\" and was not worth visiting. Koht's first writing on the subject came in 1910 with the lecture \"Genesis of American Independence\". He followed with \"Pengemakt og arbeid i Amerika\" (\"Monetary Power and Labor in America\", 1910), which was based on \"People's Academy\" lectures, then \"Amerikansk kultur\" (\"American Culture\", 1912) and \"Den amerikanske nasjonen\" (\"The American Nation\", 1920). He would return briefly to American academia during his career, for instance in the autumn of 1930 to hold a course at Harvard University.\n\nWishing to unite materialism and idealism, Koht became interested in psychology and the role of individuals in history. The latter focus led to his becoming, in the words of his biographer Åsmund Svendsen, \"one of the greatest biographers of the 20th century\". Inspired by the work with \"Norsk Forfatter-lexikon\", he wrote a life of the author Henrik Wergeland in 1908. Later he published biographies both of Norwegians and foreigners: Otto von Bismarck (1911), Ivar Aasen (1913), Johan Sverdrup in three volumes between 1916 and 1925, Marcus Thrane in 1917, Henrik Ibsen in two volumes in 1928 and 1929, and Haakon VII of Norway in 1943. He also wrote about 400 pieces in the first edition of \"Norsk biografisk leksikon\", a biographical dictionary which would become a preeminent source on important figures in Norwegian history. Between 1909 and 1932 he published letters and original writings of Henrik Ibsen, Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson, Aasmund Olavsson Vinje and Henrik Wergeland. He chaired \"Kjeldeskriftfondet\" from 1918 to 1927 and \"Norsk historisk kjeldeskriftråd\" from 1923 to 1928, two institutions that dealt with publishing of source texts. He also chaired the Norwegian Historical Association from 1912 to 1927 and 1932 to 1936, the Norwegian Genealogical Society from 1928 to 1940 and the Comité International des Sciences Historiques from 1926 to 1933.\n\nKoht became a fellow of the learned society Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters in 1908. Between 1923 and 1939 he was both praeses and vice praeses. He held honorary degrees from the University of Oxford, the University of Chicago and the University of Warsaw. He was decorated by France as a Knight of the Legion of Honour, and in 1952 he received the Gunnerus Medal from the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters. He was also a member of the International Society for the History of Medicine.\n\nKoht's father introduced his son to politics, taking him to the Liberal Party national convention in 1891, where he was allowed to enter since he studied at the university. Koht's first political arena was the Norwegian Students' Society, where he vehemently argued that the flag of Norway should not contain the union badge (the \"flag case\"). In 1893 he left this forum, co-founded a new students' association called \"Den Frisinnede Studenterforening\", and, as the students' association collectively entered the Liberal Party, became a board member of the local party branch in Kristiania. He continued his fight against the union badge, and the union as a whole. In 1905, when the union was dissolved altogether, he agitated for the establishment of a republic, but a plebiscite decided to keep the monarchy.\n\nThough he never adhered to Christianity in his adolescent or adult life, Koht valued the faith in the perfectability of human beings, as prompted \"the greatest religions\", and he started to feel solidarity with the labour movement and the working classes, leading to the radicalisation of his views: from 1900 he voted for the Norwegian Labour Party, and had four years prior to that began to consider himself a socialist. While living in the United States, he developed a form of historical materialism, which led to a fusion of history scholarship and political views. He viewed the Liberal Party as an important agent in Norwegian history, since it pronounced the rights of the farmers, but he now viewed the working class as the next class to be included in the political life, and specifically through the Labor Party. In Koht's Liberal Party period, he cooperated with some of their more radical members, among them Carl Jeppesen, who later would join the Labour Party. He joined the Labour Party when he returned from the United States and moved to Bærum in 1909. He lived with his family in Stabekk, but commissioned a house in Lysaker in 1910. The house, designed by architect Arnstein Arneberg, was dubbed \"Karistua\". The university offered him no office, so he had to conduct his research at home.\n\nKoht served as a member of Bærum municipal council in the terms 1916–1919, 1928–1931 and 1931–1934. In 1952 he wrote the 50-year history of Bærum Labour Party.\n\nInternationally, Koht tried to prop up the institutions that maintained public international law. In 1923 he participated in the arbitrations between Denmark and Norway about the disposition of Eastern Greenland. Sovereignty was claimed by Denmark. Koht teamed up with the conservative politician C. J. Hambro, who had edited \"Nordmanns-Forbundets tidsskrift\" to which Koht had contributed. The negotiations led to an agreement on Norwegian trade rights in the area, but a question of sovereignty over Eastern Greenland remained unsolved. In 1931, forces in and outside of the then-Agrarian government annexed \"Erik the Red's Land\".\n\nIn the 1930s Koht became the foremost international politician of the Labour Party. He positioned himself in the Labour Party as the prospective Minister of Foreign Affairs should the party form a government. He did so because fellow historian and Minister of Foreign Affairs in 1928, Edvard Bull, Sr., had died, making Koht the \"Foreign Minister-designate\". The Labour Party also polled well in the Norwegian parliamentary election, 1933, leading them to prepare for office. The Labour government was formed on 20 March 1935. Koht became Minister of Foreign Affairs in Johan Nygaardsvold's Cabinet. Among Koht's first actions as minister was to persuade the Labour Party not to pull Norway out of the League of Nations, something the party had declared that it would do as recently as 1934. In foreign policy matters Koht and Nygaardsvold usually made decisions without consulting the other ministers, merely informing the rest of the cabinet of the decisions that had been made.\nAfter the League of Nations failed as an effective international body, Koht again favoured the strict neutrality policy to which Norway had adhered before the League of Nations membership. For many years, he was reluctant to an expansion of a Norwegian military defense capacity. He did not vehemently and principally oppose such an expansion, and had been quite friendly to the principle of a national defense in the past. His neutrality policy nonetheless put him on the \"defense-skeptical\" side together with Johan Nygaardsvold and most of his cabinet. Among the more \"defense-friendly\" in and around the cabinet, not the least from 1936, were Trygve Bratteli, Haakon Lie, Finn Moe, Trygve Lie, Oscar Torp, Martin Tranmæl and Minister of Defense Fredrik Monsen. In 1936 Koht expressed great concern for the consequences of the arms race taking place in Europe, which he felt could easily lead to war.\n\nFollowing the 1936 outbreak of the Spanish Civil War, the Nygaardsvold Cabinet followed a policy of non-intervention in the conflict between the Spanish government and rebels led by General Franco. Koht's view of the matter was that Norway should not be involved in the conflict in any way; this became the policy of the government for the duration of the civil war. The government soon banned the sale or transfer of Norwegian arms, aircraft and ships to Spain. Koht himself promoted a ban on the use of Norwegian ships to transport arms, ammunition and aircraft to foreign countries in general, to ensure that there could be no Norwegian connection to any such items that were delivered to Spain. The strict non-intervention policy promoted by Koht and Prime Minister Nygaardsvold was heavily criticised by forces within the Labour Party. Martin Tranmæl, a central figure in the apparatus of the Labour Party and the editor of the party newspaper \"Arbeiderbladet\", led the critics of the policy towards the conflict in Spain. Tranmæl and other critics saw the non-intervention policy of the government as giving equal standing to both the elected government of Spain and the rebels. Koht went to great lengths to avoid any direct Norwegian involvement in the conflict, especially trying to block Norwegians from travelling to Spain to join the International Brigades. On 19 September 1936, Koht attempted to have the League of Nations impose a ceasefire in Spain, to be followed by a popular referendum on the country's constitution. Koht's proposal received little support and failed.\n\nFor Koht personally the civil war in Spain came close to ending his cabinet career on several occasions. On 9 April 1937, following a series of incidents where Francoist warships intercepted Norwegian vessels sailing on Spanish ports and confiscated both cargoes and ships, and Norwegian protests failing to gain results, Koht made a formal proposal to dispatch the Norwegian minelayer \"Olav Tryggvason\" to Spain to protect Norwegian shipping. After the proposal met opposition in parliament and was set to fail, Koht offered to resign. Prime Minister Nygaardsvold refused to accept Koht's resignation, stating that he \"would rather be shot than lose Koht\". The case came close to causing the whole cabinet's fall in parliament, before it was agreed that it would be dropped. When Koht in 1938 attempted to establish a trade agreement with Franco, he was blocked by his own party and the Norwegian Confederation of Trade Unions. Again requesting to be allowed to resign, Koht stayed after months of debating ended with the party giving the cabinet free rein to do what it saw as best with regards to trade with Franco. By October 1938 Koht had negotiated a trade agreement with Franco. The formal Norwegian recognition of the Franco government as the representative of Spain followed on 31 March 1939, three days after the fall of Madrid to the nationalist forces.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Second World War in September 1939, the Norwegian government declared the country neutral in the conflict. Both warring sides subsequently stated that they would respect Norway's neutrality, provided that she protect her neutrality against trespasses by the other side. Koht was clear from early on that Norway should remain neutral, but also that in the event of her being forced to enter the war it was critical that it was on the side of the British.\n\nOver the first months of the Second World War Norwegian neutrality was violated repeatedly in the air and at sea by both warring parties, most dramatically with the 16 February Altmark Incident in Jøssingfjorden. This, along with other incidents, and the lack of a firm Norwegian response, led the warring parties to the impression that Norway could or would not effectively protect her neutrality. Initially the German view of Norwegian neutrality had been one of it being positive for the German war effort, allowing German merchant ships to transport cargo via Norwegian territorial waters without interference from the British.\n\nOn 5 April the Allies sent notes to both Norway and Sweden warning that they would take any action necessary if the Germans were allowed to use the neutral countries' territory to their advantage. Koht responded with a speech in which he said that the Allies had nothing to gain by interfering with Norwegian shipping lanes—the British had a more significant trade with Norway than the Germans. The next day the Allies decided to launch a mining operation on the Norwegian coast, and to land troops at Narvik in case the Germans responded to the mining by landing in Norway. Shortly before the mining was carried out, Koht warned the British that no further neutrality violations would be tolerated, and that in the future the Norwegians would respond with force. The Germans too repeatedly violated Norwegian neutrality, and, following a visit from the Norwegian fascist leader Vidkun Quisling to Hitler in December 1939, began serious planning for a possible occupation of Norway. Following the Altmark Incident, Hitler ordered the invasion of Norway. In response to the British mining operation on 8 April 1940, the Norwegian government lodged formal protests with the British and French governments, while secretly remaining set on avoiding war with the Allies at all cost. Koht told the Norwegian parliament that he believed that the Allies were trying to bring Norway into the war. The Allied mining of the Norwegian coast coincidentally distracted the Norwegian government from realising that large German forces had been on their way to invade Norway for several days prior.\n\nAt the advent of the Nazi German Operation Weserübung, the invasion of Norway of 9 April 1940, Germany sent the envoy Curt Bräuer to present demands of capitulation. Koht personally met with Bräuer, and rejected his demands and threats of war, stating that \"war had already started\". Koht and the cabinet fled Norway's capital in the morning of 9 April. Even though Koht rejected Bräuer's initial contact, he did convince the cabinet to listen to further German proposals for negotiations later the same day. All Norwegian negotiations with the Germans ended after a failed attempt to capture the Norwegian king and government in Midtskogen early on 10 April. Koht was willing to take up the fight against the invaders. He wrote several key speeches, some of which were delivered by King Haakon VII, to convey staunch resistance to the German demands.\n\nVital to the Norwegian effort to try to halt the German advance was assistance from the Allies, which Koht requested in the early hours of 9 April, although skeptical of the potential of Allied aid. When the rest of the government fled from Molde to Tromsø, landing on 1 May, Koht and Ljungberg (Minister of Defense) continued from there with the cruiser HMS \"Glasgow\" to London. Here, from 5 May they negotiated with British government representatives (Lord Halifax, Chamberlain and Admiral Philips) on British aid to Norway. Koht also made a radio speech from London on the BBC, broadcasting to Norway, and a speech on American radio. On 8 and 9 May he met Reynaud, Gamelin and Daladier in Paris. The Norwegian Ministers departed from London on 11 May, arriving back in Norway on 17 May. The talks with the Allies resulted in concrete promises and plans for large French reinforcements for the Norwegian front. These plans were however abandoned by the Allies on 24 May 1940, following the worsening situation for the Allies in France, and an evacuation decided. Koht was informed by British Minister to Norway Sir Cecil Dormer on 1 June that the Allied Forces had decided to retreat from Norway, owing to the difficult situation at the Western Front.\n\nIn response to the Allied decision to evacuate, the cabinet sent Koht to Luleå in Sweden to try to reinvigorate a previously rejected plan to create a demarcation line between the Germans and Norwegian in Northern Norway. Swedish troops were planned to occupy Narvik. The plan was named the Mowinckel plan, after its initiator, the former prime minister Johan Ludwig Mowinckel. During a meeting with the Swedish minister of foreign affairs, Christian Günther, who was to act as a middle man with Germans in relation to the plan, Koht revealed that the Allies were about to evacuate Norway. Although Günther never revealed the evacuation plans to the Germans, Koht was heavily criticised for doing so by his colleagues upon his return to Norway.\n\nThe cabinet eventually fled the country on 7 June. Koht landed in London on 19 June 1940, now heading the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in exile. Norway was now a close ally of the United Kingdom, but Koht was seen as clinging somewhat to his neutrality policy, and not embracing the alliance with the United Kingdom enough. From the autumn of 1940, Trygve Lie championed a change in policy which meant seeking lasting allies in the western world. Koht viewed this as \"distrust\". A schism between him and the rest of the cabinet grew as it also became known that Koht's Ministry of Foreign Affairs had received reports of a possible forthcoming assault on Norway, without Koht having informed the cabinet thoroughly. Furthermore, there was discontent over Koht's decision to establish the headquarters of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in exile in Bracknell, several miles west of the cabinet headquarters.\n\nKoht was granted leave of absence on 19 November 1940, and ultimately left the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs on 20 February 1941, being succeeded by Trygve Lie. Koht decided to travel to Canada and then the United States. He lived with his daughter Åsa and her family in Washington, DC, returning to Norway after the end of the Second World War.\n\nTrygve Lie, who after the war had become the first Secretary-General of the United Nations, characterised Koht in his memoirs as an expert on foreign affairs, but introverted. He had relatively little contact with other politicians, kept to himself to study in peace, and spent much time on his extensive writing. Koht reportedly preferred to solve a problem by himself instead of involving co-workers and employees, even the experts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. His way of thinking was logical and rational, but he allegedly nurtured an \"exaggerated belief in paragraphs\" and a \"dogmatic belief in international law\", and wrongly thought that other countries would obey formal regulations at most times. Koht had few or no alternatives to his neutrality policy, and in many ways he based his entire career in foreign affairs on that policy. Trygve Lie claimed that before the Second World War, the neutrality policy had \"become a religion\" for Koht.\n\nKoht's role in the weak and unorganised defense against Operation Weserübung was debated during and after the occupation. After the World War, a commission named \"Undersøkelseskommisjonen av 1945\" (\"Scrutiny Commission of 1945\") was set to scrutinise the actions of the Norwegian government in 1940. It concluded with a partial criticism of Koht's dispositions. After receiving \"Undersøkelseskommisjonen\" analysis, Koht volunteered to undergo an Impeachment trial. The Parliament of Norway did not find it necessary, and no such trial took place.\n\nSince Koht lived in Lysaker, Bærum Municipality wanted to honor him by naming a street after him. When the street was named in 1967, Koht was still controversial. The street was therefore named \"Professor Kohts vei\" (\"Professor Koht's Road\") to emphasise his academic, rather than his political career.\n\nHailing from Tromsø, Koht spoke a Northern Norwegian dialect in his early life. In Skien his dialect provoked negative reactions from his peers. He was inspired by the dialects of Skien's surroundings (Telemark); from 1891 he wrote the \"rural\" language form Landsmål with strong tinges of Bø dialect. Before this he had attempted to write both \"Knudsen Riksmål\" and \"Aasen Landsmål\", but neither stuck. Early publications on the Norwegian language controversy were \"Det norske målstrævs historie\" (1898) and \"Det vitskapelege grunnlage for målstræve\" (1900). He became a board member of the Landsmål-based publishing house Det Norske Samlaget, and edited the Landsmål periodical \"Syn og Segn\" from 1901 to 1908, until 1905 together with Rasmus Flo. He chaired Noregs Mållag, an association the propagation of Landsmål, from 1921 to 1925. In 1929, Landsmål was renamed Nynorsk.\n\nKoht spoke of language in a social context in general and of the class struggle in particular. He eventually used the Labour Party as a vehicle for his language activism, especially after being asked by the party to write \"Arbeidarreising og målspørsmål\" in 1921. In it, he synthesised the class struggle and language struggle in Norway, and because he was an integrationist he wanted a popular gathering around one written language. Koht became a member of \"Rettskrivingsnemnda\" in 1934, and in 1936 the Labour Party agreed that a language reform should be carried out, moving the two language forms Bokmål and Nynorsk closer to one another. The language reforms took place in 1938 and promoted the Samnorsk ideal. The reforms were reversed in 1941 under Nazi rule; the original changes were reinstated after the end of the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany. According to historian Kåre Lunden, Koht was much hated by many because of his language reforms, which were routinely perceived as attacks and degradations on their preferred language. His ideals were dubbed \"det kohtske knot\", i.e. \"the Kohtian mishmash\". For his own part, Koht often used spellings that contrasted with both Nynorsk and Bokmål. The definite article, which is formally the suffix \"-et\", was substituted with the suffix \"-e\", such as in the titles of his publications \"Det vitskapelege grunnlage for målstræve\" and \"Sosialdemokratie\".\n\nKoht's first travel abroad was in 1890, when he accompanied his father as well as Hans Jacob Horst and John Theodor Lund to an interparliamentary peace conference in London. In 1895 he was a founding member and board member of the Norwegian Peace Association, serving as chairman from 1900 to 1902. From 1901 to 1902 he edited his own monthly periodical named \"Fredstidende\" (\"Peace Times\").\n\nThe Peace Association was dominated by Liberal Party politicians—from a Marxist perspective, \"bourgeois\" people. Historian Nils Ivar Agøy had noted that the socialists who were active in the bourgeois peace movement—the most prominent being Koht, Adam Egede-Nissen and Carl Bonnevie—were \"radicalised sons of the bourgeoisie\". This meant that they were \"capable of asserting themselves among the ship-owners and county governors in the board\" of the Norwegian Peace Association. Koht also followed his own goals during his first period as chairman. He wanted to tie the \"apolitical\" peace movement closer to the labour movement, to create \"economic justice\" and to employ the use of arbitration in labour conflicts. These goals were not embraced by all of the members, particularly not those who wanted to keep the Peace Association politically neutral. A larger problem, however, was that Koht rated Norwegian nationalism higher than pacifism. He had thus carried out his compulsory military service \"with fervor\", notes Agøy. Koht demanded that the Peace Association did not resist to an armed defense of the \"fatherland\". The national convention in 1902 refused to acknowledge this principle, and Koht therefore resigned his membership. He was followed by others, as a result of a schism in the Peace Association between the pacifists and the more pragmatic peace activists. Koht has also been assessed as an ineffective organisational leader. The defense question more or less solved itself when the Swedish-Norwegian union was peacefully dissolved in 1905. Koht later returned to the Peace Association to serve as a board member from 1910 to 1912.\n\nHe became a member of Institut International de la Paix in 1913. He was a consultant for the Norwegian Nobel Institute from 1904 to 1913, with the task of examining proposed candidates for the Nobel Peace Prize. From 1918 to 1942 he served on the Norwegian Nobel Committee. In 1931, he gave the Award Ceremony Speech for the Nobelists Jane Addams and Nicholas Murray Butler, but was absent in the decisive meeting in 1936 that awarded the Nobel Peace Prize to Carl von Ossietzky. He was also absent while serving as Minister of Foreign Affairs, not wishing to combine the two roles. He returned briefly afterwards, before leaving again in 1942. Another reason for his inactivity was that he had not lived in Norway since 1940, but either way the Prize was not awarded in any of the years from 1939 to 1943.\n\nKoht's academic writing also encompassed the peace issue. His books on the subject include \"Histoire du mouvement de la paix en Norvège\" (\"History of the Peace Movement in Norway\", 1900) and \"Fredstanken i Noregs-sogo\" (\"The Notion of Peace in the History of Norway\", 1906).\n\nHaving stepped down from the exiled cabinet in 1941, Koht lived in the United States for the remainder of the war. There he continued his literary production; however, the books \"Norway Neutral and Invaded\" (1941) and \"The Voice of Norway\" (1944) were both released in London. The first book dealt directly with the advent of war in Norway, and was released in Swedish in the same year. The second book, written together with his son-in-law Sigmund Skard, dealt more with older history and the literature of Norway. It was released in Swedish in 1944 and Norwegian in 1948. Koht returned to Norway at the end of war.\n\nUpon returning to Norway, Koht published three books on the war-time events in Norway: \"For fred og fridom i krigstid 1939–1940\", \"Frå skanse til skanse. Minne frå krigsmånadene i Noreg 1940\" and \"Norsk utanrikspolitikk fram til 9. april 1940. Synspunkt frå hendingstida\", all of which were released in 1947. These memoir-like books have been analysed as putting a self-apologetic message forth. His political career was effectively ended, but some of his ideas had prevailed. For instance, his analysis of the class situation in Norway became a part of the general social-democratic ideology of the post-war years.\n\nDespite not holding the professor chair any longer, Koht continued his academic writing; his principal work from the post-war epoch was the six-volume \"Kriseår i norsk historie\". The six volumes each describe a decisive moment in Norwegian history. The first volume, released in 1950, centers on \"Vincens Lunge contra Henrik Krummedige\". The second volume (1951) describes Olav Engelbriktsson and Norway's descent into dependency to Denmark in 1537. The third and fourth volumes, released in 1952 and 1955, are about medieval kings: Sverre I and Harald I. The fifth volume (1956) focuses on \"Queen Margaret and the Kalmar Union\". The sixth and final volume (1960) chronicles the years from 1657 to 1661, when Denmark (and thus Norway) transitioned into an absolute monarchy.\n\nKoht died on 12 December 1965 in Bærum. He was buried at Nordre gravlund in Oslo. Two works by Koht have been released posthumously: the memoirs \"Minne frå unge år\" in 1968 and the diary \"Rikspolitisk dagbok 1933–1940\" in 1985. His son-in-law Sigmund Skard wrote a biography of him, \"Mennesket Halvdan Koht\" (\"Halvdan Koht the Man\") in 1982.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "435268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435268", "title": "History of the world", "text": "History of the world\n\nThe history of the world, in common parlance, is the history of humanity (or human history), as determined from archaeology, anthropology, genetics, linguistics, and other disciplines; and, for periods since the invention of writing, from recorded history and from secondary sources and studies.\n\nHumanity's written history was preceded by its prehistory, beginning with the Palaeolithic Era (\"Early Stone Age\"), followed by the Neolithic Era (\"New Stone Age\"). The Neolithic saw the Agricultural Revolution begin, between 8000 and 5000 BCE, in the Near East's Fertile Crescent. During this period, humans began the systematic husbandry of plants and animals. As agriculture advanced, most humans transitioned from a nomadic to a settled lifestyle as farmers in permanent settlements. The relative security and increased productivity provided by farming allowed communities to expand into increasingly larger units, fostered by advances in transportation.\n\nWhether in prehistoric or historic times, people always needed to be near reliable sources of potable water. Settlements developed on river banks as early as 3000 BCE in Mesopotamia, on the banks of Egypt's Nile River, in the Indus River valley, and along China's rivers. As farming developed, grain agriculture became more sophisticated and prompted a division of labour to store food between growing seasons. Labour divisions led to the rise of a leisured upper class and the development of cities, which provided the foundation for civilization. The growing complexity of human societies necessitated systems of accounting and writing.\n\nWith civilizations flourishing, ancient history (\"Antiquity,\" including the Classical Age, up to about 500 CE) saw the rise and fall of empires. Post-classical history (the \"Middle Ages,\" c. 500–1500 CE ) witnessed the rise of Christianity, the Islamic Golden Age (c. 750 CE – c. 1258 CE), and the early Italian Renaissance (from around 1300 CE). The mid-15th-century invention of modern printing, employing movable type, revolutionized communication and facilitated ever wider dissemination of information, helping end the Middle Ages and ushering in the Scientific Revolution. The Early Modern Period, sometimes referred to as the \"European Age\", from about 1500 to 1800, included the Age of Enlightenment and the Age of Discovery. By the 18th century, the accumulation of knowledge and technology had reached a critical mass that brought about the Industrial Revolution and began the Late Modern Period, which started around 1800 and has continued through the present.\n\nThis scheme of historical periodization (dividing history into Antiquity, Post-Classical, Early Modern, and Late Modern periods) was developed for, and applies best to, the history of the Old World, particularly Europe and the Mediterranean. Outside this region, including ancient China and ancient India, historical timelines unfolded differently. However, by the 18th century, due to extensive world trade and colonization, the histories of most civilizations had become substantially intertwined. In the last quarter-millennium, the rates of growth of population, knowledge, technology, communications, commerce, weapons destructiveness, and environmental degradation have greatly accelerated, creating opportunities and perils that now confront the planet's human communities.\n\nGenetic measurements indicate that the ape lineage which would lead to \"Homo sapiens\" diverged from the lineage that would lead to chimpanzees and bonobos, the closest living relatives of modern humans, around 4.6 to 6.2 million years ago. Anatomically modern humans arose in Africa about 300,000 years ago, and reached behavioural modernity about 50,000 years ago.\n\nModern humans spread rapidly from Africa into the frost-free zones of Europe and Asia around 60,000 years ago. The rapid expansion of humankind to North America and Oceania took place at the climax of the most recent ice age, when temperate regions of today were extremely inhospitable. Yet, humans had colonized nearly all the ice-free parts of the globe by the end of the Ice Age, some 12,000 years ago. Other hominids such as \"Homo erectus\" had been using simple wood and stone tools for millennia, but as time progressed, tools became far more refined and complex.\n\nPerhaps as early as 1.8 million years ago, but certainly by 500,000 years ago, humans began using fire for heat and cooking. They also developed language in the Paleolithic period and a conceptual repertoire that included systematic burial of the dead and adornment of the living. Early artistic expression can be found in the form of cave paintings and sculptures made from ivory, stone, and bone, showing a spirituality generally interpreted as animism, or even shamanism. During this period, all humans lived as hunter-gatherers, and were generally nomadic. Archaeological and genetic data suggest that the source populations of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers survived in sparsely wooded areas and dispersed through areas of high primary productivity while avoiding dense forest cover.\n\nThe Neolithic Revolution, beginning around 10,000 BCE, saw the development of agriculture, which fundamentally changed the human lifestyle. Farming developed around 10,000 BCE in the Middle East, around 7000 BCE in what is now China, about 6000 BCE in the Indus Valley and Europe, and about 4000 BCE in the Americas. Cultivation of cereal crops and the domestication of animals occurred around 8500 BCE in the Middle East, where wheat and barley were the first crops and sheep and goats were domesticated. In the Indus Valley, crops were cultivated by 6000 BCE, along with domesticated cattle. The Yellow River valley in China cultivated millet and other cereal crops by about 7000 BCE, but the Yangtze River valley domesticated rice earlier, by at least 8000 BCE. In the Americas, sunflowers were cultivated by about 4000 BCE, and corn and beans were domesticated in Central America by 3500 BCE. Potatoes were first cultivated in the Andes Mountains of South America, where the llama was also domesticated. Metal-working, starting with copper around 6000 BCE, was first used for tools and ornaments. Gold soon followed, with its main use being for ornaments. The need for metal ores stimulated trade, as many of the areas of early human settlement were lacking in ores. Bronze, an alloy of copper and tin, is first known from about 2500 BCE, but did not become widely used until much later.\nThough early \"cities\" appeared at Jericho and Catal Huyuk around 6000 BCE, the first civilizations did not emerge until around 3000 BCE in Egypt and Mesopotamia. These cultures gave birth to the invention of the wheel, mathematics, bronze-working, sailing boats, the pottery wheel, woven cloth, construction of monumental buildings, and writing. Writing developed independently and at different times in five areas of the world: Egypt (c. 3200 BCE), India (c. 3200 BCE), Mesopotamia (c. 3000 BCE), China (c. 1600 BCE), and Mesoamerica (c. 600 BCE).\n\nFarming permitted far denser populations, which in time organized into states. Agriculture also created food surpluses that could support people not directly engaged in food production. The development of agriculture permitted the creation of the first cities. These were centres of trade, manufacturing and political power. Cities established a symbiosis with their surrounding countrysides, absorbing agricultural products and providing, in return, manufactured goods and varying degrees of military control and protection.\n\nThe development of cities was synonymous with the rise of civilization. Early civilizations arose first in Lower Mesopotamia (3000 BCE), followed by Egyptian civilization along the Nile River (3000 BCE), the Harappan civilization in the Indus River Valley (in present-day India and Pakistan; 2500 BCE), and Chinese civilization along the Yellow and Yangtze Rivers (2200 BCE). These societies developed a number of unifying characteristics, including a central government, a complex economy and social structure, sophisticated language and writing systems, and distinct cultures and religions. Writing facilitated the administration of cities, the expression of ideas, and the preservation of information.\n\nEntities such as the Sun, Moon, Earth, sky, and sea were often deified. Shrines developed, which evolved into temple establishments, complete with a complex hierarchy of priests and priestesses and other functionaries. Typical of the Neolithic was a tendency to worship anthropomorphic deities. Among the earliest surviving written religious scriptures are the Egyptian \"Pyramid Texts\", the oldest of which date to between 2400 and 2300 BCE.\n\nThe Bronze Age is part of the three-age system (Stone Age, Bronze Age, Iron Age) that for some parts of the world describes effectively the early history of civilization. During this era the most fertile areas of the world saw city-states and the first civilizations develop. These were concentrated in fertile river valleys: the Tigris and Euphrates in Mesopotamia, the Nile in Egypt, the Indus in the Indian subcontinent, and the Yangtze and Yellow Rivers in China.\n\nSumer, located in Mesopotamia, is the first known complex civilization, developing the first city-states in the 4th millennium BCE. It was in these cities that the earliest known form of writing, cuneiform script, appeared around 3000 BCE. Cuneiform writing began as a system of pictographs. These pictorial representations eventually became simplified and more abstract. Cuneiform texts were written on clay tablets, on which symbols were drawn with a blunt reed used as a stylus. Writing made the administration of a large state far easier.\n\nTransport was facilitated by waterways—by rivers and seas. The Mediterranean Sea, at the juncture of three continents, fostered the projection of military power and the exchange of goods, ideas, and inventions. This era also saw new land technologies, such as horse-based cavalry and chariots, that allowed armies to move faster.\n\nThese developments led to the rise of territorial states and empires. In Mesopotamia there prevailed a pattern of independent warring city-states and of a loose hegemony shifting from one city to another. In Egypt, by contrast, first there was a dual division into Upper and Lower Egypt which was shortly followed by unification of all the valley around 3100 BCE, followed by permanent pacification. In Crete the Minoan civilization had entered the Bronze Age by 2700 BCE and is regarded as the first civilization in Europe. Over the next millennia, other river valleys saw monarchical empires rise to power. In the 25th – 21st centuries BCE, the empires of Akkad and Sumer arose in Mesopotamia.\n\nOver the following millennia, civilizations developed across the world. Trade increasingly became a source of power as states with access to important resources or controlling important trade routes rose to dominance. By 1400 BCE, Mycenaean Greece began to develop. In India this era was the Vedic period, which laid the foundations of Hinduism and other cultural aspects of early Indian society, and ended in the 6th century BCE. From around 550 BCE, many independent kingdoms and republics known as the Mahajanapadas were established across the subcontinent.\n\nAs complex civilizations arose in the Eastern Hemisphere, the indigenous societies in the Americas remained relatively simple and fragmented into diverse regional cultures. During the formative stage in Mesoamerica (about 1500 BCE to 500 CE), more complex and centralized civilizations began to develop, mostly in what is now Mexico, Central America, and Peru. They included civilizations such as the Olmec, Maya, Zapotec, Moche, and Nazca. They developed agriculture, growing maize, chili peppers, cocoa, tomatoes, and potatoes, crops unique to the Americas, and creating distinct cultures and religions. These ancient indigenous societies would be greatly affected, for good and ill, by European contact during the early modern period.\n\nBeginning in the 8th century BCE, the \"Axial Age\" saw the development of a set of transformative philosophical and religious ideas, mostly independently, in many different places. Chinese Confucianism, Indian Buddhism and Jainism, and Jewish monotheism are all claimed by some scholars to have developed in the 6th century BCE. (Karl Jaspers' Axial-Age theory also includes Persian Zoroastrianism, but other scholars dispute his timeline for Zoroastrianism.) In the 5th century BCE, Socrates and Plato made substantial advances in the development of ancient Greek philosophy.\n\nIn the East, three schools of thought would dominate Chinese thinking well into the 20th century. These were Taoism, Legalism, and Confucianism. The Confucian tradition, which would become particularly dominant, looked for political morality not to the force of law but to the power and example of tradition. Confucianism would later spread to the Korean Peninsula and toward Japan.\n\nIn the West, the Greek philosophical tradition, represented by Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and other philosophers, along with accumulated science, technology, and culture, diffused throughout Europe, Egypt, the Middle East, and Northwest India, starting in the 4th century BCE after the conquests of Alexander III of Macedon (Alexander the Great).\n\nThe millennium from 500 BCE to 500 CE saw a series of empires of unprecedented size develop. Well-trained professional armies, unifying ideologies, and advanced bureaucracies created the possibility for emperors to rule over large domains whose populations could attain numbers upwards of tens of millions of subjects.\nThe great empires depended on military annexation of territory and on the formation of defended settlements to become agricultural centres. The relative peace that the empires brought encouraged international trade, most notably the massive trade routes in the Mediterranean, the maritime trade web in the Indian Ocean, and the Silk Road. In southern Europe, the Greeks (and later the Romans), in an era known as \"classical antiquity,\" established cultures whose practices, laws, and customs are considered the foundation of contemporary Western culture.\n\nThere were a number of regional empires during this period. The kingdom of the Medes helped to destroy the Assyrian Empire in tandem with the nomadic Scythians and the Babylonians. Nineveh, the capital of Assyria, was sacked by the Medes in 612 BCE. The Median Empire gave way to successive Iranian empires, including the Achaemenid Empire (550–330 BCE) and the Sasanian Empire (224–651 CE).\n\nSeveral empires began in modern-day Greece. First was the Delian League (from 477 BCE) and the succeeding Athenian Empire (454–404 BCE), centred in present-day Greece. Later, Alexander the Great (356–323 BCE), of Macedon, founded an empire of conquest, extending from present-day Greece to present-day India. The empire divided shortly after his death, but the influence of his Hellenistic successors made for an extended Hellenistic period (323–31 BCE) throughout the region.\n\nIn Asia, the Maurya Empire (322–185 BCE) existed in present-day India; in the 3rd century BCE, most of South Asia was united to the Maurya Empire by Chandragupta Maurya and flourished under Ashoka the Great. From the 3rd century CE, the Gupta dynasty oversaw the period referred to as ancient India's Golden Age. From the 4th to 6th centuries, northern India was ruled by the Gupta Empire. In southern India, three prominent Dravidian kingdoms emerged: the Cheras, Cholas, and Pandyas. The ensuing stability contributed to heralding in the golden age of Hindu culture in the 4th and 5th centuries.\n\nIn Europe, the Roman Empire, centered in present-day Italy, began in the 7th century BCE. In the 3rd century BCE the Roman Republic began expanding its territory through conquest and alliances. By the time of Augustus (63 BCE – 14 CE), the first Roman Emperor, Rome had already established dominion over most of the Mediterranean. The empire would continue to grow, controlling much of the land from England to Mesopotamia, reaching its greatest extent under the emperor Trajan (died 117 CE). In the 3rd century CE, the empire split into western and eastern regions, with (usually) separate emperors. The Western empire would fall, in 476 CE, to German influence under Odoacer. The eastern empire, now known as the Byzantine Empire, with its capital at Constantinople, would continue for another thousand years, until Constantinople was conquered by the Ottoman Empire in 1453.\n\nIn China, the Qin dynasty (221–206 BCE), the first imperial dynasty of China, was followed by the Han Empire (206 BCE – 220 CE). The Han Dynasty was comparable in power and influence to the Roman Empire that lay at the other end of the Silk Road. Han China developed advanced cartography, shipbuilding, and navigation. The Chinese invented blast furnaces, and created finely tuned copper instruments. As with other empires during the Classical Period, Han China advanced significantly in the areas of government, education, mathematics, astronomy, technology, and many others.\n\nIn Africa, the Kingdom of Aksum, centred in present-day Ethiopia, established itself by the 1st century CE as a major trading empire, dominating its neighbours in South Arabia and Kush and controlling the Red Sea trade. It minted its own currency and carved enormous monolithic steles such as the Obelisk of Axum to mark their emperors' graves.\n\nSuccessful regional empires were also established in the Americas, arising from cultures established as early as 2500 BCE. In Mesoamerica, vast pre-Columbian societies were built, the most notable being the Zapotec Empire (700 BCE – 1521 CE), and the Maya civilization, which reached its highest state of development during the Mesoamerican Classic period (c. 250–900 CE), but continued throughout the Post-Classic period until the arrival of the Spanish in the 16th century CE. Maya civilization arose as the Olmec mother culture gradually declined. The great Mayan city-states slowly rose in number and prominence, and Maya culture spread throughout the Yucatán and surrounding areas. The later empire of the Aztecs was built on neighbouring cultures and was influenced by conquered peoples such as the Toltecs.\n\nSome areas experienced slow but steady technological advances, with important developments such as the stirrup and moldboard plough arriving every few centuries. There were, however, in some regions, periods of rapid technological progress. Most important, perhaps, was the Mediterranean area during the Hellenistic period, when hundreds of technologies were invented. Such periods were followed by periods of technological decay, as during the Roman Empire's decline and fall and the ensuing early medieval period.\n\nThe ancient empires faced common problems associated with maintaining huge armies and supporting a central bureaucracy. These costs fell most heavily on the peasantry, while land-owning magnates increasingly evaded centralized control and its costs. Barbarian pressure on the frontiers hastened internal dissolution. China's Han dynasty fell into civil war in 220 CE, beginning the Three Kingdoms period, while its Roman counterpart became increasingly decentralized and divided about the same time in what is known as the Crisis of the Third Century. The great empires of Eurasia were all located on temperate and subtropical coastal plains. From the Central Asian steppes, horse-based nomads, mainly Mongols and Turks, dominated a large part of the continent. The development of the stirrup and the breeding of horses strong enough to carry a fully armed archer made the nomads a constant threat to the more settled civilizations.\n\nThe gradual break-up of the Roman Empire, spanning several centuries after the 2nd century CE, coincided with the spread of Christianity outward from the Middle East. The Western Roman Empire fell under the domination of Germanic tribes in the 5th century, and these polities gradually developed into a number of warring states, all associated in one way or another with the Catholic Church. The remaining part of the Roman Empire, in the eastern Mediterranean, continued as what came to be called the Byzantine Empire. Centuries later, a limited unity would be restored to western Europe through the establishment in 962 of a revived \"Roman Empire\", later called the Holy Roman Empire, comprising a number of states in what is now Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Czech Republic, Belgium, Italy, and parts of France.\n\nIn China, dynasties would rise and fall, but, by sharp contrast to the Mediterranean-European world, dynastic unity would be restored. After the fall of the Eastern Han Dynasty and the demise of the Three Kingdoms, nomadic tribes from the north began to invade in the 4th century, eventually conquering areas of northern China and setting up many small kingdoms. The Sui Dynasty successfully reunified the whole of China in 581, and laid the foundations for a Chinese golden age under the Tang dynasty (618–907).\n\nThe Post-classical Era, though deriving its name from the Eurocentric era of \"Classical antiquity\", refers to a broader geographic sweep. The era is commonly dated from the 5th-century fall of the Western Roman Empire, which fragmented into many separate kingdoms, some of which would later be confederated under the Holy Roman Empire. The Eastern Roman, or Byzantine Empire survived until late in the Post-classical, or Medieval, period. The Post-classical period also encompasses the Early Muslim conquests, the subsequent Islamic Golden Age, and the commencement and expansion of the Arab slave trade, followed by the Mongol invasions in the Middle East and Central Asia, and the founding around 1280 of the Ottoman Empire. South Asia saw a series of middle kingdoms of India, followed by the establishment of Islamic empires in India.\n\nIn western Africa, the Mali Empire and the Songhai Empire developed. On the southeast coast of Africa, Arabic ports were established where gold, spices, and other commodities were traded. This allowed Africa to join the Southeast Asia trading system, bringing it contact with Asia; this, along with Muslim culture, resulted in the Swahili culture. China experienced the successive Sui, Tang, Song, Yuan, and early Ming dynasties. Middle Eastern trade routes along the Indian Ocean, and the Silk Road through the Gobi Desert, provided limited economic and cultural contact between Asian and European civilizations. During the same period, civilizations in the Americas, such as the Inca, Maya, and Aztecs, reached their zenith; all would be compromised by, then conquered after, contact with European colonists at the beginning of the Modern period.\n\nPrior to the advent of Islam in the 7th century, the Middle East was dominated by the Byzantine Empire and the Persian Sasanian Empire, which frequently fought each other for control of several disputed regions. This was also a cultural battle, with the Byzantine Hellenistic and Christian culture competing against the Persian Iranian traditions and Zoroastrian religion. The formation of the Islamic religion created a new contender that quickly surpassed both of these empires. Islam greatly affected the political, economic, and military history of the Old World, especially the Middle East.\n\nFrom their centre on the Arabian Peninsula, Muslims began their expansion during the early Postclassical Era. By 750 CE, they came to conquer most of the Near East, North Africa, and parts of Europe, ushering in an era of learning, science, and invention known as the Islamic Golden Age. The knowledge and skills of the ancient Near East, Greece, and Persia were preserved in the Postclassical Era by Muslims, who also added new and important innovations from outside, such as the manufacture of paper from China and decimal positional numbering from India.\n\nMuch of this learning and development can be linked to geography. Even prior to Islam's presence, the city of Mecca had served as a centre of trade in Arabia, and the Islamic prophet Muhammad himself was a merchant. With the new Islamic tradition of the \"Hajj\", the pilgrimage to Mecca, the city became even more a centre for exchanging goods and ideas. The influence held by Muslim merchants over African-Arabian and Arabian-Asian trade routes was tremendous. As a result, Islamic civilization grew and expanded on the basis of its merchant economy, in contrast to the Europeans, Indians, and Chinese, who based their societies on an agricultural landholding nobility. Merchants brought goods and their Islamic faith to China, India, Southeast Asia, and the kingdoms of western Africa, and returned with new discoveries and inventions.\nMotivated by religion and dreams of conquest, European kings launched a number of Crusades to try to roll back Muslim power and retake the Holy Land. The Crusades were ultimately unsuccessful and served more to weaken the Byzantine Empire, especially with the 1204 sack of Constantinople. The Byzantine Empire began to lose increasing amounts of territory to the Ottoman Turks. Arab domination of the region ended in the mid-11th century with the arrival of the Seljuq Turks, migrating south from the Turkic homelands in Central Asia. In the early 13th century, a new wave of invaders, the Mongol Empire, swept through the region but were eventually eclipsed by the Turks and the founding of the Ottoman Empire in modern-day Turkey around 1280.\n\nNorth Africa saw the rise of polities formed by the Berbers, such as the Marinid dynasty in Morocco, the Zayyanid dynasty in Algeria, and the Hafsid dynasty in Tunisia. The region will later be called the Barbary Coast and will host pirates and privateers who will use several North African ports for their raids against the coastal towns of several European countries in search of slaves to be sold in North African markets as part of the Barbary slave trade.\n\nStarting with the Sui dynasty (581–618), the Chinese began expanding into eastern Central Asia, and confronted Turkic nomads, who were becoming the most dominant ethnic group in Central Asia. Originally the relationship was largely cooperative, but in 630 the Tang dynasty began an offensive against the Turks, capturing areas of the Mongolian Ordos Desert. In the 8th century, Islam began to penetrate the region and soon became the sole faith of most of the population, though Buddhism remained strong in the east. The desert nomads of Arabia could militarily match the nomads of the steppe, and the early Arab Empire gained control over parts of Central Asia.\n\nThe Hephthalites were the most powerful of the nomad groups in the 6th and 7th centuries, and controlled much of the region. In the 9th through 13th centuries the region was divided among several powerful states, including the Samanid dynasty, the Seljuq dynasty, and the Khwarezmid Empire. The largest empire to rise out of Central Asia developed when Genghis Khan united the tribes of Mongolia. The Mongol Empire spread to comprise all of Central Asia and China as well as large parts of Russia and the Middle East. After Genghis Khan died in 1227, most of Central Asia continued to be dominated by a successor state, Chagatai Khanate. In 1369, Timur, a Turkic leader in the Mongol military tradition, conquered most of the region and founded the Timurid Empire. Timur's large empire collapsed soon after his death, however. The region then became divided into a series of smaller khanates that were created by the Uzbeks. These included the Khanate of Khiva, the Khanate of Bukhara, and the Khanate of Kokand, all of whose capitals are located in present-day Uzbekistan.\n\nEurope during the Early Middle Ages was characterized by depopulation, deurbanization, and barbarian invasion, all of which had begun in Late Antiquity. The barbarian invaders formed their own new kingdoms in the remains of the Western Roman Empire. In the 7th century, North Africa and the Middle East, once part of the Eastern Roman Empire, became part of the Caliphate after conquest by Muhammad's successors. Although there were substantial changes in society and political structures, most of the new kingdoms incorporated as many of the existing Roman institutions as they could. Christianity expanded in western Europe, and monasteries were founded. In the 7th and 8th centuries the Franks, under the Carolingian dynasty, established an empire covering much of western Europe; it lasted until the 9th century, when it succumbed to pressure from new invaders—the Vikings, Magyars, and Saracens.\n\nDuring the High Middle Ages, which began after 1000, the population of Europe increased greatly as technological and agricultural innovations allowed trade to flourish and crop yields to increase. Manorialism—the organization of peasants into villages that owed rents and labour service to nobles—and feudalism—a political structure whereby knights and lower-status nobles owed military service to their overlords in return for the right to rents from lands and manors—were two of the ways of organizing medieval society that developed during the High Middle Ages. Kingdoms became more centralized after the decentralizing effects of the breakup of the Carolingian Empire. The Crusades, first preached in 1095, were an attempt by western Christians from nations such as the Kingdom of England, the Kingdom of France and the Holy Roman Empire to regain control of the Holy Land from the Muslims and succeeded for long enough to establish some Christian states in the Near East. Italian merchants imported Armenians, Balts, Circassians, Georgians, Greeks and Slavs to work as household slaves and in processing sugar. Intellectual life was marked by scholasticism and the founding of universities, while the building of Gothic cathedrals was one of the outstanding artistic achievements of the age.\n\nThe Late Middle Ages were marked by difficulties and calamities. Famine, plague, and war devastated the population of western Europe. The Black Death alone killed approximately 75 to 200 million people between 1347 and 1350. It was one of the deadliest pandemics in human history. Starting in Asia, the disease reached Mediterranean and western Europe during the late 1340s, and killed tens of millions of Europeans in six years; between a third and a half of the population perished.\n\nThe Middle Ages witnessed the first sustained urbanization of northern and western Europe. Many modern European states owe their origins to events unfolding in the Middle Ages; present European political boundaries are, in many regards, the result of military and dynastic events during this tumultuous period. The Middle Ages lasted until the beginning of the Early modern period in the 16th century, marked by the rise of nation states, the division of Western Christianity in the Reformation, the rise of humanism in the Italian Renaissance, and the beginnings of European overseas expansion which allowed for the Columbian Exchange.\n\nIn Central and Eastern Europe, in 1386, the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania (the latter including territories of modern Belarus and Ukraine), facing depredations by the Teutonic Knights and later also threats from Muscovy, the Crimean Tatars, and the Ottoman Empire, formed a personal union through the marriage of Poland's Queen Jadwiga to Lithuanian Grand Duke Jogaila, who became King Władysław II Jagiełło of Poland. For the next four centuries, until the 18th-century Partitions of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth by Prussia, Russia, and Austria, the two polities conducted a federated condominium, long Europe's largest state, which welcomed diverse ethnicities and religions, including most of the world's Jews, furthered scientific thought (e.g., Copernicus's heliocentric theory), and—in a last-ditch effort to preserve their sovereignty—adopted the Constitution of 3 May 1791, the world's second modern written constitution after the U.S. Constitution that went into effect in 1789.\n\nMedieval Sub-Saharan Africa was home to many different civilizations. The Kingdom of Aksum declined in the 7th century as Islam cut it off from its Christian allies and its people moved further into the Ethiopian Highlands for protection. They eventually gave way to the Zagwe dynasty who are famed for their rock cut architecture at Lalibela. The Zagwe would then fall to the Solomonic dynasty who claimed descent from the Aksumite emperors and would rule the country well into the 20th century. In the West African Sahel region, many Islamic empires rose, such as the Ghana Empire, the Mali Empire, the Songhai Empire, and the Kanem–Bornu Empire. They controlled the trans-Saharan trade in gold, ivory, salt and slaves.\n\nSouth of the Sahel, civilizations rose in the coastal forests where horses and camels could not survive. These include the Yoruba city of Ife, noted for its art, and the Oyo Empire, the Benin Empire of the Edo people centred in Benin City, the Igbo Kingdom of Nri which produced advanced bronze art at Igbo-Ukwu, and the Akan who are noted for their intricate architecture.\n\nCentral Africa saw the birth of several states, including the Kingdom of Kongo. In what is now modern Southern Africa, native Africans created various kingdoms such as the Kingdom of Mutapa. They flourished through trade with the Swahili people on the East African coast. They built large defensive stone structures without mortar such as Great Zimbabwe, capital of the Kingdom of Zimbabwe, Khami, capital of Kingdom of Butua, and Danangombe (Dhlo-Dhlo), capital of the Rozwi Empire. The Swahili people themselves were the inhabitants of the East African coast from Kenya to Mozambique who traded extensively with Asians and Arabs, who introduced them to Islam. They built many port cities such as Mombasa, Zanzibar and Kilwa, which were known to Chinese sailors under Zheng He and Islamic geographers.\n\nIn northern India, after the fall (550 CE) of the Gupta Empire, the region was divided into a complex and fluid network of smaller kingly states. Early Muslim incursions began in the west in 712 CE, when the Arab Umayyad Caliphate annexed much of present-day Pakistan. Arab military advance was largely halted at that point, but Islam still spread in India, largely due to the influence of Arab merchants along the western coast. The Tripartite Struggle for control of northern India took place in the ninth century. The struggle was between the Pratihara Empire, the Pala Empire and the Rashtrakuta Empire. Some of the important states that emerged in India at this time included the Bahmani Sultanate and the Vijayanagara Empire. Post-classical dynasties in South India included those of the Chalukyas, the Hoysalas, the Cholas, the Islamic Mughals, the Marathas and the Mysores. Science, engineering, art, literature, astronomy, and philosophy flourished under the patronage of these kings.\n\nAfter a period of relative disunity, China was reunified by the Sui dynasty in 581 and under the succeeding Tang dynasty (618–907) China entered a Golden Age. The Tang Empire competed with the Tibetan Empire for control of areas in Inner and Central Asia. The Tang dynasty eventually splintered, however, and after half a century of turmoil the Song dynasty reunified China, when it was, according to William McNeill, the \"richest, most skilled, and most populous country on earth\". Pressure from nomadic empires to the north became increasingly urgent. By 1142, North China had been lost to the Jurchens in the Jin–Song Wars, and the Mongol Empire conquered all of China in 1279, along with almost half of Eurasia's landmass. After about a century of Mongol Yuan dynasty rule, the ethnic Chinese reasserted control with the founding of the Ming dynasty (1368).\n\nIn Japan, the imperial lineage had been established by this time, and during the Asuka period (538–710) the Yamato Province developed into a clearly centralized state. Buddhism was introduced, and there was an emphasis on the adoption of elements of Chinese culture and Confucianism. The Nara period of the 8th century marked the emergence of a strong Japanese state and is often portrayed as a golden age. During this period, the imperial government undertook great public works, including government offices, temples, roads, and irrigation systems. The Heian period (794 to 1185) saw the peak of imperial power, followed by the rise of militarized clans, and the beginning of Japanese feudalism. The feudal period of Japanese history, dominated by powerful regional lords (\"daimyōs\") and the military rule of warlords (\"shōguns\") such as the Ashikaga shogunate and Tokugawa shogunate, stretched from 1185 to 1868. The emperor remained, but mostly as a figurehead, and the power of merchants was weak.\n\nPostclassical Korea saw the end of the Three Kingdoms era, the three kingdoms being Goguryeo, Baekje and Silla. Silla conquered Baekje in 660, and Goguryeo in 668, marking the beginning of the \"North–South States Period\" (남북국시대), with Unified Silla in the south and Balhae, a successor state to Goguryeo, in the north. In 892 CE, this arrangement reverted to the Later Three Kingdoms, with Goguryeo (then called Taebong and eventually named Goryeo) emerging as dominant, unifying the entire peninsula by 936. The founding Goryeo dynasty ruled until 1392, succeeded by the Joseon dynasty, which ruled for approximately 500 years.\n\nThe beginning of the Middle Ages in Southeast Asia saw the fall (550 CE) of the Kingdom of Funan to the Chenla Empire, which was then replaced by the Khmer Empire (802 CE). The Khmer's capital city Angkor was the largest city in the world prior to the industrial age and contained over a thousand temples, the most famous being Angkor Wat. The Sukhothai (1238 CE) and Ayutthaya (1351 CE) kingdoms were major powers of the Thai people, who were influenced by the Khmer. Starting in the 9th century, the Pagan Kingdom rose to prominence in modern Myanmar. Other notable kingdoms of the period include the Srivijayan Empire and the Lavo Kingdom (both coming into prominence in the 7th century), the Champa and the Hariphunchai (both about 750), the Dai Viet (968), Lan Na (13th century), Majapahit (1293), Lan Xang (1354), and the Kingdom of Ava (1364). Taiwanese indigenous peoples formed tribal alliances such as the Kingdom of Middag. It was also during this period that Islam spread to present-day Indonesia (beginning in the 13th century), and the Malay states began to emerge including the Malacca Sultanate, the Bruneian Empire and the Rajahnate of Maynila.\n\nIn the region of Oceania, the Tuʻi Tonga Empire was founded in the 10th century CE and expanded between 1200 and 1500. Tongan culture, language, and hegemony spread widely throughout Eastern Melanesia, Micronesia and Central Polynesia during this period, influencing East 'Uvea, Rotuma, Futuna, Samoa and Niue, as well as specific islands / parts of Micronesia (Kiribati, Pohnpei and miscellaneous outliers), Vanuatu and New Caledonia (specifically, the Loyalty Islands, with the main island being predominantly populated by the Melanesian Kanak people and their cultures). At around the same time, a powerful thalassocracy appeared in Eastern Polynesia centred around the Society Islands, specifically on the sacred Taputapuatea marae, which drew in Eastern Polynesian colonists from places as far away as Hawaii, New Zealand (Aotearoa), and the Tuamotu Islands for political, spiritual and economic reasons, until the unexplained collapse of regular long-distance voyaging in the Eastern Pacific a few centuries before Europeans began exploring the area. Indigenous written records from this period are virtually non-existent, as it seems that all Pacific Islanders, with the possible exception of the enigmatic Rapa Nui and their currently undecipherable Rongorongo script, had no writing systems of any kind until after their introduction by European colonists; however, some indigenous prehistories can be estimated and academically reconstructed through careful, judicious analysis of native oral traditions, colonial ethnography, archaeology, physical anthropology and linguistics research.\n\nIn North America, this period saw the rise of the Mississippian culture in the modern-day United States c. 800 CE, marked by the extensive 12th-century urban complex at Cahokia. The Ancestral Puebloans and their predecessors (9th – 13th centuries) built extensive permanent settlements, including stone structures that would remain the largest buildings in North America until the 19th century. In Mesoamerica, the Teotihuacan civilization fell and the Classic Maya collapse occurred. The Aztec Empire came to dominate much of Mesoamerica in the 14th and 15th centuries. In South America, the 14th and 15th centuries saw the rise of the Inca. The Inca Empire of Tawantinsuyu, with its capital at Cusco, spanned the entire Andes Mountain Range, making it the most extensive Pre-Columbian civilization. The Inca were prosperous and advanced, known for an excellent road system and unrivaled masonry.\n\nModern history (the \"modern period,\" the \"modern era,\" \"modern times\") refers to the history of the period following the Middle Ages, spanning from about 1500 to the present day. In contrast, \"Contemporary history\" is history that covers events from around 1945 to the present day.\n\n\"Early modern period\" is a term used by historians to refer to the period between the Middle Ages (Post-classical history) and the Industrial Revolution—roughly 1500 to 1800. The Early Modern period is characterized by the rise of science, and by increasingly rapid technological progress, secularized civic politics, and the nation state. Capitalist economies began their rise, initially in northern Italian republics such as Genoa. The Early Modern period also saw the rise and dominance of the mercantilist economic theory. As such, the Early Modern period represents the decline and eventual disappearance, in much of the European sphere, of feudalism, serfdom, and the power of the Catholic Church. The period includes the Protestant Reformation, the disastrous Thirty Years' War, the Age of Discovery, European colonial expansion, the peak of European witch-hunting, the Scientific revolution, and the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nEurope's Renaissance, meaning \"rebirth,\" referring to the rebirth of classical culture, beginning in the 14th century and extending into the 16th, consisted of the rediscovery of the classical world's scientific contributions, and of the economic and social rise of Europe. The Renaissance also engendered a culture of inquisitiveness which ultimately led to Humanism and the Scientific Revolution. Although it saw social and political upheaval and revolutions in many intellectual pursuits, the Renaissance is perhaps known best for its artistic developments and the contributions of such polymaths as Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, who inspired the term \"Renaissance man.\"\n\nDuring this period, European powers came to dominate most of the world. Although the most developed regions of European classical civilization were more urbanized than any other region of the world, European civilization had undergone a lengthy period of gradual decline and collapse. During the Early Modern Period, Europe was able to regain its dominance; historians still debate the causes.\n\nEurope's success in this period stands in contrast to other regions. For example, one of the most advanced civilizations of the Middle Ages was China. It had developed an advanced monetary economy by 1000 CE. China had a free peasantry who were no longer subsistence farmers, and could sell their produce and actively participate in the market. According to Adam Smith, writing in the 18th century, China had long been one of the richest, most fertile, best cultivated, most industrious, most urbanized, and most prosperous countries in the world. It enjoyed a technological advantage and had a monopoly in cast iron production, piston bellows, suspension bridge construction, printing, and the compass. However, it seemed to have long since stopped progressing. Marco Polo, who visited China in the 13th century, describes its cultivation, industry, and populousness almost in the same terms as travelers would in the 18th century.\n\nOne theory of Europe's rise holds that Europe's geography played an important role in its success. The Middle East, India and China are all ringed by mountains and oceans but, once past these outer barriers, are nearly flat. By contrast, the Pyrenees, Alps, Apennines, Carpathians and other mountain ranges run through Europe, and the continent is also divided by several seas. This gave Europe some degree of protection from the peril of Central Asian invaders. Before the era of firearms, these nomads were militarily superior to the agricultural states on the periphery of the Eurasian continent and, as they broke out into the plains of northern India or the valleys of China, were all but unstoppable. These invasions were often devastating. The Golden Age of Islam was ended by the Mongol sack of Baghdad in 1258. India and China were subject to periodic invasions, and Russia spent a couple of centuries under the Mongol-Tatar yoke. Central and western Europe, logistically more distant from the Central Asian heartland, proved less vulnerable to these threats.\n\nGeography contributed to important geopolitical differences. For most of their histories, China, India, and the Middle East were each unified under a single dominant power that expanded until it reached the surrounding mountains and deserts. In 1600 the Ottoman Empire controlled almost all the Middle East, the Ming dynasty ruled China, and the Mughal Empire held sway over India. By contrast, Europe was almost always divided into a number of warring states. Pan-European empires, with the notable exception of the Roman Empire, tended to collapse soon after they arose. Another doubtless important geographic factor in the rise of Europe was the Mediterranean Sea, which, for millennia, had functioned as a maritime superhighway fostering the exchange of goods, people, ideas and inventions.\n\nNearly all the agricultural civilizations have been heavily constrained by their environments. Productivity remained low, and climatic changes easily instigated boom-and-bust cycles that brought about civilizations' rise and fall. By about 1500, however, there was a qualitative change in world history. Technological advance and the wealth generated by trade gradually brought about a widening of possibilities.\n\nMany have also argued that Europe's institutions allowed it to expand, that property rights and free-market economics were stronger than elsewhere due to an ideal of freedom peculiar to Europe. In recent years, however, scholars such as Kenneth Pomeranz have challenged this view. Europe's maritime expansion unsurprisingly—given the continent's geography—was largely the work of its Atlantic states: Portugal, Spain, England, France, and the Netherlands. Initially the Portuguese and Spanish Empires were the predominant conquerors and sources of influence, and their union resulted in the Iberian Union, the first global empire on which the \"sun never set\". Soon the more northern English, French and Dutch began to dominate the Atlantic. In a series of wars fought in the 17th and 18th centuries, culminating with the Napoleonic Wars, Britain emerged as the new world power.\n\nPersia came under the rule of the Safavid Empire in 1501, succeeded by the Afsharid Empire in 1736, and the Qajar Empire in 1796. Areas to the north and east were held by Uzbeks and Pashtuns. The Ottoman Empire, after taking Constantinople in 1453, quickly gained control of the Middle East, the Balkans, and most of North Africa.\n\nIn Africa, this period saw a decline in many civilizations and an advancement in others. The Swahili Coast declined after coming under Portuguese (and later Omani) control. In west Africa, the Songhai Empire fell to the Moroccans in 1591 when they invaded with guns. The South African Kingdom of Zimbabwe gave way to smaller kingdoms such as Mutapa, Butua, and Rozwi. Ethiopia suffered from the 1531 invasion from neighbouring Muslim Adal Sultanate, and in 1769 entered the Zemene Mesafint (Age of Princes) during which the Emperor became a figurehead and the country was ruled by warlords, though the royal line later would recover under Emperor Tewodros II. The Ajuran Empire, in the Horn of Africa, began to decline in the 17th century, succeeded by the Geledi Sultanate. Other civilizations in Africa advanced during this period. The Oyo Empire experienced its golden age, as did the Benin Empire. The Ashanti Empire rose to power in what is modern day Ghana in 1670. The Kingdom of Kongo also thrived during this period. European exploration of Africa reached its zenith at this time.\n\nIn the Far East, the Chinese Ming Dynasty gave way (1644) to the Qing, the last Chinese imperial dynasty, which would rule until 1912. Japan experienced its Azuchi–Momoyama period (1568–1603), followed by the Edo period (1603–1868). The Korean Joseon Dynasty (1392–1910) ruled throughout this period, successfully repelling 16th- and 17th-century invasions from Japan and China. Japan and China were significantly affected during this period by expanded maritime trade with Europe, particularly the Portuguese in Japan. During the Edo period, Japan would pursue isolationist policies, to eliminate foreign influences.\n\nOn the Indian subcontinent, the Delhi Sultanate and the Deccan sultanates would give way, beginning in the 16th century, to the Mughal Empire. Starting in the northwest, the Mughal Empire would by the late 17th century come to rule the entire subcontinent, except for the southernmost Indian provinces, which would remain independent. Against the Muslim Mughal Empire, the Hindu Maratha Empire was founded on the west coast in 1674, gradually gaining territory—a majority of present-day India—from the Mughals over several decades, particularly in the Mughal–Maratha Wars (1681–1701). The Maratha Empire would in 1818 fall under the control of the British East India Company, with all former Maratha and Mughal authority devolving in 1858 to the British Raj.\n\nIn 1511 the Portuguese overthrew the Malacca Sultanate in present-day Malaysia and Indonesian Sumatra. The Portuguese held this important trading territory (and the valuable associated navigational strait) until overthrown by the Dutch in 1641. The Johor Sultanate, centred on the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula, became the dominant trading power in the region. European colonization expanded with the Dutch in the Netherlands East Indies, and the Spanish in the Philippines. Into the 19th century, European expansion would affect the whole of Southeast Asia, with the British in Myanmar and Malaysia, and the establishment of French Indochina. Only Thailand would successfully resist colonization.\n\nThe Pacific islands of Oceania would also be affected by European contact, starting with the circumnavigational voyage of Ferdinand Magellan, who landed on the Marianas and other islands in 1521. Also notable were the voyages (1642–44) of Abel Tasman to present-day Australia, New Zealand and nearby islands, and the voyages (1768–1779) of Captain James Cook, who made the first recorded European contact with Hawaii. Britain would found its first colony on Australia in 1788.\n\nIn the Americas, the western European powers vigorously colonized the newly discovered continents, largely displacing the indigenous populations, and destroying the advanced civilizations of the Aztecs and the Inca. Spain, Portugal, Britain, and France all made extensive territorial claims, and undertook large-scale settlement, including the importation of large numbers of African slaves. Portugal claimed Brazil. Spain claimed the rest of South America, Mesoamerica, and southern North America. Britain colonized the east coast of North America, and France colonized the central region of North America. Russia made incursions onto the northwest coast of North America, with a first colony in present-day Alaska in 1784, and the outpost of Fort Ross in present-day California in 1812. In 1762, in the midst of the Seven Years' War, France secretly ceded most of its North American claims to Spain in the Treaty of Fontainebleau. Thirteen of the British colonies declared independence as the United States of America in 1776, ratified by the Treaty of Paris in 1783, ending the American Revolutionary War. Napoleon Bonaparte won France’s claims back from Spain in the Napoleonic Wars in 1800, but sold them to the United States in 1803 as the Louisiana Purchase.\n\nIn Russia, Ivan the Terrible was crowned (1547) the first Tsar of Russia, and by annexing the Turkic Khanates in the east, transformed Russia into a regional power. The countries of western Europe, while expanding prodigiously through technological advancement and colonial conquest, competed with each other economically and militarily in a state of almost constant war. Often the wars had a religious dimension, either Catholic versus Protestant, or (primarily in eastern Europe) Christian versus Muslim. Wars of particular note include the Thirty Years' War, the War of the Spanish Succession, the Seven Years' War, and the French Revolutionary Wars. Napoleon came to power in France in 1799, an event foreshadowing the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.\n\nThe Scientific Revolution changed humanity's understanding of the world and led to the Industrial Revolution, a major transformation of the world's economies. The Scientific Revolution in the 17th century had had little immediate effect on industrial technology; only in the second half of the 18th century did scientific advances begin to be applied substantially to practical invention. The Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain and used new modes of production—the factory, mass production, and mechanization—to manufacture a wide array of goods faster and using less labour than previously required. The Age of Enlightenment also led to the beginnings of modern democracy in the late-18th century American and French Revolutions. Democracy and republicanism would grow to have a profound effect on world events and on quality of life.\n\nAfter Europeans had achieved influence and control over the Americas, imperial activities turned to the lands of Asia and Oceania. In the 19th century the European states had social and technological advantage over Eastern lands. Britain gained control of the Indian subcontinent, Egypt and the Malay Peninsula; the French took Indochina; while the Dutch cemented their control over the Dutch East Indies. The British also colonized Australia, New Zealand and South Africa with large numbers of British colonists emigrating to these colonies. Russia colonized large pre-agricultural areas of Siberia. In the late 19th century, the European powers divided the remaining areas of Africa. Within Europe, economic and military challenges created a system of nation states, and ethno-linguistic groupings began to identify themselves as distinctive nations with aspirations for cultural and political autonomy. This nationalism would become important to peoples across the world in the 20th century.\n\nDuring the Second Industrial Revolution, the world economy became reliant on coal as a fuel, as new methods of transport, such as railways and steamships, effectively shrank the world. Meanwhile, industrial pollution and environmental damage, present since the discovery of fire and the beginning of civilization, accelerated drastically.\n\nThe advantages that Europe had developed by the mid-18th century were two: an entrepreneurial culture, and the wealth generated by the Atlantic trade (including the African slave trade). By the late 16th century, silver from the Americas accounted for the Spanish empire's wealth. The profits of the slave trade and of West Indian plantations amounted to 5% of the British economy at the time of the Industrial Revolution. While some historians conclude that, in 1750, labour productivity in the most developed regions of China was still on a par with that of Europe's Atlantic economy, other historians like Angus Maddison hold that the per-capita productivity of western Europe had by the late Middle Ages surpassed that of all other regions.\n\nThe 20th century opened with Europe at an apex of wealth and power, and with much of the world under its direct colonial control or its indirect domination. Much of the rest of the world was influenced by heavily Europeanized nations: the United States and Japan. As the century unfolded, however, the global system dominated by rival powers was subjected to severe strains, and ultimately seemed to yield to a more fluid structure of independent nations organized on Western models.\n\nThis transformation was catalysed by wars of unparalleled scope and devastation. World War I destroyed many of Europe's empires and monarchies, and weakened Britain and France. In its aftermath, powerful ideologies arose. The Russian Revolution of 1917 created the first communist state, while the 1920s and 1930s saw militaristic fascist dictatorships gain control in Italy, Germany, Spain and elsewhere.\n\nOngoing national rivalries, exacerbated by the economic turmoil of the Great Depression, helped precipitate World War II. The militaristic dictatorships of Europe and Japan pursued an ultimately doomed course of imperialist expansionism, in the course of which Nazi Germany orchestrated the murder of six million Jews in the Holocaust and of millions of Poles, Russians, and other Slavs, while Imperial Japan murdered millions of Chinese. An earlier, World War I model of genocide had been provided by Turkey's mass murder of Armenians. The World War II defeat of the Axis Powers opened the way for the advance of communism into Central Europe, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, China, North Vietnam, and North Korea.\n\nWhen World War II ended in 1945, the United Nations was founded in the hope of preventing future wars, as the League of Nations had been formed following World War I. The war had left two countries, the United States and the Soviet Union, with principal power to influence international affairs. Each was suspicious of the other and feared a global spread of the other's, respectively capitalist and communist, political-economic model. This led to the Cold War, a forty-five-year stand-off and arms race between the United States and its allies, on one hand, and the Soviet Union and its allies on the other. With the development of nuclear weapons during World War II, and with their subsequent proliferation, all of humanity were put at risk of nuclear war between the two superpowers, as demonstrated by many incidents, most prominently the October 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis. Such war being viewed as impractical, the superpowers instead waged proxy wars in non-nuclear-armed Third World countries.\n\nIn China, Mao Zedong implemented industrialization and collectivization reforms as part of the Great Leap Forward (1958–62), leading to the starvation deaths (1959–61) of tens of millions of people.\n\nThe Cold War ended in 1991, when the Soviet Union disintegrated, in part due to inability to compete economically with the United States and western Europe. However, the United States likewise began to show signs of slippage in its geopolitical influence, even as its private sector, now less inhibited by the claims of the public sector, increasingly sought private advantage to the prejudice of the public weal. \n\nIn the early postwar decades, the colonies in Asia and Africa of the Belgian, British, Dutch, French, and other west European empires won their formal independence. But the newly independent countries faced challenges in the form of neocolonialism, sociopolitical disarray, poverty, illiteracy, and endemic tropical diseases.\n\nMost Western European and Central European countries gradually formed a political and economic community, the European Union, which expanded eastward to include former Soviet-satellite countries. The European Union's effectiveness was handicapped by the immaturity of its common economic and political institutions, somewhat comparable to the inadequacy of United States institutions under the Articles of Confederation prior to the adoption of the U.S. Constitution that came into force in 1789. Asian, African, and South American countries followed suit and began taking tentative steps toward forming their own respective continental associations.\n\nCold War preparations to deter or to fight a third world war accelerated advances in technologies that, though conceptualized before World War II, had been implemented for that war's exigencies, such as jet aircraft, rocketry, and electronic computers. In the decades after World War II, these advances led to jet travel, artificial satellites with innumerable applications including global positioning systems (GPS), and the Internet—inventions that have revolutionized the movement of people, ideas, and information.\n\nHowever, not all scientific and technological advances in the second half of the 20th century required an initial military impetus. That period also saw ground-breaking developments such as the discovery of the structure of DNA, the consequent sequencing of the human genome, the worldwide eradication of smallpox, the discovery of plate tectonics, manned and unmanned exploration of space and of previously inaccessible parts of Earth, and foundational discoveries in physics phenomena ranging from the smallest entities (particle physics) to the greatest entity (physical cosmology).\n\nThe century saw many global threats emerge or become more serious or more widely recognized, including nuclear proliferation, global climate change, air pollution, deforestation, ocean acidification and pollution, overpopulation, deadly epidemics of microbial diseases, near-Earth asteroids and comets, supervolcano eruptions, lethal gamma-ray bursts, geomagnetic storms, and the dwindling of global natural resources (particularly fossil fuels).\n\nThe 21st century has been marked by growing economic globalization and integration, with consequent increased risk to interlinked economies; and by the expansion of communications with mobile phones and the Internet, which have caused fundamental societal changes in business, politics, and individuals' personal lives, including the advent of social-media platforms such as Facebook.\n\nThe early 21st century saw escalating intra- and international strife in the Near East and Afghanistan, stimulated by vast economic disparities, by dissatisfaction with governments dominated by Western interests, by inter-ethnic and inter-sectarian feuds, and by the longest war in the history of the United States, the proximate cause for which was Osama bin Laden's provocative 2001 destruction of New York City's World Trade Center. The Arab Spring, a revolutionary wave of uprisings in North Africa and the Middle East in the early 2010's, produced power vacuums that led to a resurgence of authoritarianism and the advent of reactionary groups like the Islamic State.\nU.S. military involvements in the Near East and Afghanistan, along with a financial crisis and resultant recession, have drained U.S. economic resources at a time when the U.S. and other Western countries are experiencing mounting socioeconomic dislocations aggravated by the robotization of work and the export of industries to cheaper-workforce countries. Meanwhile, ancient and populous Asian civilizations, namely India and especially China, have been emerging from centuries of relative scientific, technological, and economic languishment to become potential economic and political rivals for Western powers.\n\nWorldwide competition for resources has risen due to growing populations and industrialization, especially in India, China, and Brazil. The increased demand is contributing to increased environmental degradation and global warming. That, and a need for safe, reliable energy supplies independent of politically volatile regions, has spurred the development of renewable sources of energy, chiefly solar and wind energy, in place of carbon-based energy (petroleum, coal, natural gas) and nuclear energy. In recognition of the existential threat posed by climate change, in December 2015 195 countries signed the Paris Climate Agreement, though in 2017 President Donald Trump announced his withdrawal of the United States from the Agreement. \n\nInternational tensions were heightened in connection with the efforts of some nuclear-armed states to induce North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons, and to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons.\n\n"}
{"id": "51304026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51304026", "title": "Ioan Kalinderu", "text": "Ioan Kalinderu\n\nIoan Lazăr Kalinderu (born Calenderoglu, also known as Iancu Kalinderu, Ioan Kelenderu, Ioanŭ Calenderu, or Jean Kalindéro; December 28 or 29, 1840 – December 11, 1913) was a Wallachian, later Romanian jurist and confidant of King Carol I, who served for thirty years as the administrator of crown domains, and for three years as president of the Romanian Academy. Educated in France, he was the son of a rich and influential Greek-Romanian banker, Lazăr Kalenderoglu, and the brother of physician Nicolae Kalinderu. Like them, he was a sympathizer of the National Liberal Party, with which he debuted in politics in the 1880s.\n\nKalideru was an expert in Roman law, but his attempts in the field, as well as his later studies in the history of Ancient Rome, are generally seen as minor contributions. His overall competence as an interpreter of law was questioned following his handling of the Strousberg Affair, although he served on the Court of Cassation and on international bodies of experts. Kalinderu stayed on as Carol's legal adviser, also helping him in direct negotiations with the National Liberal and Conservative political machines, and was several times considered for the office of Prime Minister.\n\nAs administrator for the crown, Kalinderu enacted his vision of rural improvement, setting up model farms and a cottage industry, promoting literacy and the arts, and encouraging entrepreneurship. He viewed these methods as a working alternative to land reform, defending property rights during and after the peasants' revolt of 1907. He was praised for his passion and dedication, but also criticized for the uncertainty of their outcome. In addition to his agrarian project and his social work, Kalinderu played a significant part in promoting mountaineering and modern forestry, set up the resort of Bușteni, and created his own art museum. A picturesque figure with eccentric customs, and often regarded as snobbish and servile, he became a stock character for the writers and cartoonists at \"Furnica\" magazine. His unfulfilled promise to donate his fortune to the public bled into a posthumous scandal which lasted into the interwar years.\n\nBorn in Bucharest on December 28 or 29, 1840, his father was Lazăr (Lazaros) Kalenderoglu (or Calenderoglu). Of possible Smyrniote origin, the family functioned as one of the largest banking and exporting institutions in Wallachia, and then in the United Principalities. Lazăr had risen into the ranks of Wallachia's boyar nobility: joining the Bucharest local government in 1838, 1844, and 1847, he was awarded the title of \"pitar\", advancing to \"paharnic\" in the 1850s. His son would later falsely claim that the Kalenderoglus played a part in the Wallachian Revolution of 1848, although Lazăr is known to have held relevant positions in the National Party in 1857, briefly serving as its chairman alongside Constantin A. Crețulescu. The last-ever tenant and tax collector of Predeal customs, Kalenderoglu had his estate in Olt County, outside Colonești, reduced during the land reform of 1864. Another of his estates, at Bălcești, was repurchased by the Bălcescu boyars. However, he still left Ioan the manor of Schitu-Greci.\n\nAlthough a Wallachian native and relatively assimilated, Lazăr was sometimes regarded as an ethnic Turk, owing to his Turkish-sounding surname. He identified as Greek-Romanian and, as late as 1879, was \"ktitor\" of an eponymous Greek Orthodox church in Bucharest. His fully assimilated son later barred the Greek colony from attending the church, and rededicated it to Romanian Orthodoxy. Ioan and his brother Nicolae were educated in Greek, before graduating high school in Bucharest. Ioan studied law at the University of Paris. Taking his license degree with a study of dowries in Roman law (1860), and earning a doctorate with a thesis on \"ex post facto\" laws (\"De la non-rétroactivité des lois\", 1864), he returned home to take up positions as a judge, serving as the first president of Bucharest Tribunal. He then became a counselor with the Court of Cassation.\n\nFrom 1872, the Ministry of Justice employed him as an adviser for penal reform, alongside Vasile Boerescu, Nicolae Mandrea, Grigore Păucescu, Mihail Pherekyde and Grigore Triandafil. Boerescu referred to Kalinderu as \"a man of the new world, with very progressive ideas, and an excellent jurisconsult.\" At the time, his family was involved with the liberal-radical movement. Brother Nicolae, a Paris-trained physician, became one of the founders of the National Liberal Party in 1875. The aged Kalenderoglu was founder of \"Creditul Rural\", a credit union for the benefit of peasants, alongside major liberal figures.\nIn 1875, Ioan also joined the National Liberals in opposing the concession of the Predeal railway to the Englishman George Crawley; alongside party leaders Ion Brătianu and Dimitrie Sturdza, he created an investment firm that tried to compete with Crawley for the contract. Kalinderu advanced on the public scene following the Strousberg Affair, during which Romania purchased back her railways from the bankrupt Prussian investor B. H. Strousberg. In February 1880, he and Strudza were dispatched to Berlin to negotiate payment of Strousberg's government bonds with the Imperial German authorities. In April, \"Domnitor\" Carol I appointed him on the Princely Commission for the Administration of Railways, the embryonic \"Căile Ferate Române\". The other members of this directorial triumvirate were Eugeniu Stătescu and Ștefan Fălcoianu. Kalinderu maintained his office in Berlin until 1882, representing the newly established Kingdom of Romania. In 1882, he published a French-language tome dealing specifically with the legal implications of the Strousberg Affair: \"De la compétence des tribunaux et particulièrernent des tribunaux prussiens dans toute contestation relative aux biens mobiliers qu'un état étranger peut posséder en Prusse\".\n\nAs noted at the time by Titu Maiorescu, Kalinderu was responsible for placing his government in a humiliating position, and it was surprising that such a mission was entrusted to so unqualified an individual. Brătianu, who had taken over as Prime Minister, arrived in Berlin to personally supervise the negotiations, reportedly because the hastiness on the German side to seal off the deal \"inspired in him grave disquietude\". According to one account, he viewed Kalinderu as incompetent, arranging for Eugeniu Carada to replace him as the actual negotiator, in all but name. Nevertheless, Kalinderu's authority in international law was recognized following his employment by the Permanent Court of Arbitration. From 1888, he was also an associate member of the Institut de Droit International.\n\nKalinderu earned additional favors from Carol I, crowned King of the Romanians, who appointed him his adviser on legal and agricultural matters. For a while, he served as administrator of the state-owned forest and fields. In June 1884, Kalinderu was named the first administrator of crown domains, which had been set aside by organic law, resigning from his position at the railways company in December 1885. Owned by the state and managed by the House of Hohenzollern (through Kalinderu), the domains originally included twelve country estates and two mountains of the Southern Carpathians: Clăbucetul Taurului and Caraiman. During the first years of his new assignment, Kalinderu tried to pursue a parallel career in politics. He ran for Bucharest Council in 1886, second on the National Liberal list. He withdrew upon winning, citing his \"many other engagements\". During the election of 1888, \"I. Calenderoglu\" ran at Olt as an independent, but lost, collecting 55 of 165 votes. He eventually handled the purchase of Strousberg railways, negotiating a loan for 175 million lei in 1889. In 1891, following the resignation of a Conservative Party government under Gheorghe Manu, Carol reportedly proposed Kalinderu as Prime Minister of an independent cabinet. This maneuver was rejected by the opposition National Liberals—the refusal was instigated by a moribund Brătianu.\n\nBy 1888, Kalinderu was elected a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy. Made titular in March 1893, he became chairman of its Historical Section in 1895–1897, and again in 1907–1910. He also served as Academy president from 1904 to 1907. The administrator of the Ioan Oteteleșanu estate after winning the trial against his relatives in 1889, he donated most of it to the Academy. The fund included 900 hectares of land, and ran at 4 million gold lei. During his tenure there, Kalinderu marginalized Ioan Slavici, who had criticized his management, and tried but failed to do the same with historian Radu Rosetti. He was also confronted with criticism from Duiliu Zamfirescu, who, in 1904, claimed that the Academy was turning into an \"asylum for the intellectually impaired.\"\n\nMeanwhile, he continued to work as an envoy of the king. By 1899, with Romania hit by a major economic crisis, Kalinderu and Manu were sent abroad to negotiate loans—as Ornea notes, theirs was a \"dilettante\" adventure. Kalinderu also reported to his former Berlin colleague Sturdza, by then the National Liberal Prime Minister, that Carol had dismissed him, then negotiated a reunification of the Conservatives and \"Junimea\" defectors, prompted by the king's wish to have a stable government party. He had declined offers to replace Sturdza himself, favoring Theodor Rosetti or Ioan Lahovary for that position.\n\nIn 1896, Kalinderu restored the church on his own estate of Schitu-Greci, radically altering the overall design. He was particularly concerned with building and restoring Orthodox religious buildings on the king's domain, personally involved in restoring and refurbishing the church of Bălteni-Periș. He supervised model farms, wrote a textbook for crown agents, and ordered the founding of cultural societies, the first appearing on a domain in 1897. It published the eponymous \"people's encyclopedic magazine\", \"Albina\" (\"The Bee\"), appearing between October 1897 and 1916. Kalinderu was the head editor, with George Coșbuc, Petre Dulfu, and Petre Vasiliu-Năsturel serving as co-editors. His work in public literacy also led him to establish Steaua Association. Joined by Constantin Banu and Spiru Haret, and later by Barbu Știrbey and Alexandru Lapedatu, it had as its object the promotion of \"moral, patriotic and useful publications\", and the prevention, \"by all lawful meas, of immoral writings and publications\".\n\nKalinderu was also editor of Culture Ministry's newsletter, \"Buletinul Comisiunii Monumentelor Istorice\", and of the forestry magazine, \"Revista Pădurilor\", serving as chairman of the Historical Monuments Commission, the Progress in Forestry Society, and the Royal Geographical Society. He was also offered chairmanship of the Romanian Atheneum, but regretfully declined, arguing that he was caught up in his agricultural work. Instead, he promised to bequeath a \"handsome sum\" of money to the Atheneum upon his death. In 1906, following Sturdza's second fall from office, Kalinderu was again tipped as the likely Prime Minister.\n\nDescribed by Zigu Ornea as a \"pseudo-historian\", Kalinderu authored \"risible\" studies on Roman hairstyles, which also drew much amusement from contemporaries. They were published in 1900–1901 as \"Portul barbeĭ și pĕruluĭ la Romanĭ\" (\"Beard and Hair Styling among the Romans\") and \"Portul perucilor și bărbieriĭ la Romanĭ\" (\"Wigs and Barbers of the Romans\"). Kalinderu's other publications have been characterized by Maiorescu as \"compilations with no value\". They include monographs on the \"praetorium ius\" (1885), on Roman municipal law and on the Byzantine Senate (both 1887), on the Twelve Tables (1888), on Roman vacationing (1895), on Augustus and his literary retinue (1897–1898), on Caesar's Civil War (1902), on clothing in ancient Rome (1903–1904), and on social life during the times of Pliny the Elder (1904). He also published an homage to Stephen the Great, medieval Prince of Moldavia, studies of succession to the Romanian throne, and an Academy-sanctioned biography of Melchisedec Ștefănescu. In an 1888 polemical tract, \"Une poignée de vérités à nos prétendants\" (\"A Fistful of Truths for Our Detractors\"), Kalinderu and Alexandru Candiano-Popescu, using the shared pseudonym \"Un Paysan du Danube\" (\"A Peasant of the Danube\"), defended their work alongside the king.\n\nKalinderu largely owed his ascent into prominent positions to his work at the crown domains and his influence with Carol I. However, his activity in agricultural and social improvement earned him respect. As early as 1898, Angelo de Gubernatis referred to his \"powerful and positive work\", calling Kalinderu \"one of the most noble figures in today's Romania\". Another visitor, André Bellessort, joked that the perpetually youthful \"Mr. Kalindero\" resembled \"a rustic god\", a patron of the farmers with \"nitrogen eyes\". Kalinderu's contributions to agricultural science and his activism, covered in a 1903 monograph by the agrarianist Vasile Kogălniceanu, were praised by the sociologists: Dimitrie Drăghicescu saw them as marked by an \"entrepreneurial spirit, unrelenting in its activity\"; Nicolae Mihăescu-Nigrim called Kalinderu \"one of the country's most eminent economists\" and an \"indefatigable administrator\". As chemist Amuliu Proca notes, Kalinderu turned the domains into an \"institution for defeating poverty, a factor in educating and culturally improving the villages\". It \"set an example of what may be accomplished, in a short while, by a country that was taking major steps in her development.\"\n\nAs summarized by the official press of his time, he \"put all his efforts into directing peasants toward the cottage industry\", created \"home economics classes and adult education courses\", and \"was the first to speak\" at educational conferences. He established a dairy factory, as well as shops for weavers, ropemakers, wainwrights and woodturners, and showcased their products at the 1900 World's Fair. Following Julius Kühn, Kalinderu insisted that the precondition of a \"rational economy\" was good livestock, so he inaugurated a freely accessible breeding program, also providing tenants with cultivars, or with beekeeping and sericulture implements. He also reintroduced reforestation and forest farming where bad practices had affected the environment. Kalinderu held the notion that the Romanian peasant was miserable for being illiterate, and that \"all it takes is a set of favorable circumstances for him to display [his] talents\". The efforts to educate his tenants were conjugated with those of \"Steaua\"s Haret, by then National Liberal Minister of Education, providing young students with work experience and physical culture, as well as inculcating in them a patriotic awareness. A significant portion of his time was spent on teaching peasants to diversify their diet, including providing hired hands with daily rations of vegetables, meat and milk. This helped to prevent outbursts of pellagra.\nIn 1901, agronomist Constantin Sandu-Aldea acknowledged that there was a stark difference between \"the mass of cultivators, who fall behind progress\", and those living and working on crown lands. As he noted, the \"intelligent and energetic\" Kalinderu was managing his estate and his tenants backed by \"all scientific data in modern agriculture.\" Modeling his effort on the Austrian colonization of Bosnia, Kalinderu financed research projects for his employees, sending many of them to study in Austria-Hungary. On crown estates, management was divided between networks of forestry engineers, agricultural engineers, and accountants, who decided working hours and met budgetary requirements; workers received social security, including disability insurance. These and other contracts excluded drunkards and unmarried couples, with a view to promoting a stringent moral code. However, his attempts to uproot alcoholism and promote personal hygiene had mixed results, according to the left-wing Mihail Sadoveanu, who noted, sarcastically, \"true enough, these days taverns have been replaced by bathhouses and libraries.\" Likewise, a 1901 project to set up rural theaters was derided and parodied by Ion Luca Caragiale, in \"Moftul Român\". Reportedly, his order to build model libraries on the domains was actively sabotaged by the local curators, who would not allow peasants to consult them, or even to set foot in the buildings.\n\nKalinderu took over his father's seat at \"Creditul Rural\", which financed the cottage industry and, in 1906, was chaired by Sturdza. The institution was rocked by scandals between its Conservative and National Liberal managers—when Sturdza stepped down in March 1906, Kalinderu became his replacement. His belief in self-help and his defense of landed-property rights against another land reform were highlighted after the peasants' revolt of 1907, during which his own estate at Schitu-Greci was ransacked. At the Progress in Forestry Society, he condemned the peasants' belief that \"the state has a duty to provide them with land\", and insisted that the root cause of the revolt was their failure to accept modernity and practicality. As he noted at the time, \"on the crown domains, [...] the peasants never rebelled, but quite the contrary, defended property against invaders.\"\n\nMediating between the Conservatives and the king, Kalinderu obtained guarantees against the reform, although he and the crown advocated \"a credit union under the control of the state, permitting peasants to accumulate more land of their own.\" By then, he had resigned from his steering position at \"Creditul Rural\", following an agreement with Dinu Brătianu, who replaced him. In 1908–1911, his \"Albina\" team also put out a weekly \"social bulletin\", providing Orthodox parsons and rural teachers with guidance in the field social work.\n\nKalinderu's other ambitious ideas manifested themselves erratically, including a project for a girls' boarding school in Turnu Măgurele, the \"Oteteleșanu Institute\", which he launched without the Academy's approval. He was also involved in the development of the Bușteni mountain resort, where he built a paper mill and a high school that today bears his name. He promoted ski, and a slope there is also named in his honor. His own estate increased by 1907, with the addition of 401 hectares at Seaca—leased out to the Predescu brothers—and other plots in Tecuci-Kalinderu.\n\nFrom July 1906 onward, his other pet project was art collecting, with the goal of setting up a museum at his villa on Vasile Sion Street, near the Cișmigiu Gardens. The house itself, designed by Ion D. Berindey, cost 2 million gold lei to build, and was lavishly furnished. The collection included Ancient Greek pottery and works of design alongside art by Donatello, Andrea del Verrocchio, Giovanni Paolo Panini, Théodore Géricault, Léon Bonnat, Auguste Raffet, and the complete collection of etchings by Piranesi. These were matched by a Romanian hall, with canvasses by Nicolae Grigorescu, Ștefan Luchian, Ion Andreescu, Camil Ressu and various others.\n\nThe art world was skeptical of his tastes: Tudor Arghezi and Alexandru Lapedatu both noted that Kalinderu had amassed his \"objets\" without much discernment; later, art historian Petre Oprea concluded that Kalinderu was driven by \"vainglory and a thirst for fame.\" Similarly, critic George Oprescu suggests that Ioan's taste in art was eclipsed by that of his physician brother Nicolae, who selected \"all that is best\" in the Kalinderu collection. According to the fellow collector Krikor Zambaccian: \"dapper, distant and implacable, the Smyrniote was haughty and did not tolerate competition\". Zambaccian found his rival overall \"harmless\", even though he noted an incident in which an angry Kalinderu \"decapitated\" a work of sculpture.\n\nKalideru's other eccentricities attracted attention in their own right. Seen by contemporaries and later historians as excessively vain and hence susceptible, he was decorated with the ribbons of numerous European countries, holding the Grand Cross of the Order of the Star of Romania, the Legion of Honour as Grand Officer, and, from 1903, the Grand Cordon of the Order of Osmanieh. In one of his charges, Arghezi claimed that Kalinderu, the \"Man with Violet Eyes\", was entirely alien to the nation he claimed to rescue, a \"purulent flower on the heights of our national life.\" Lapedatu commented on his \"wicked half-closed Oriental eyes\", his \"black mustache like that of Napoleon III\", and his dress \"in the English style, with wide pants, gray jacket, an enormous lapel flower and a tall gray hat\". Constantin Argetoianu observed that although Kalinderu lacked all inclination toward sport or riding, he would go out every morning on a nag he could barely ride. Although this activity bored him, he would not have renounced it for anything, because he had read it was a habit of lords in London. Later, he became an ardent velocipedist, and was the only person with special permission to ride a velocipede in Cișmigiu.\n\nAs seen by Radu R. Rosetti, Kalinderu appears \"sententious, ridiculous, but very much appreciated by the King\". Reportedly, he worked for free at the crown domains, refusing to collect his salary: \"The only rewards he desires are peasant blessings and his playing billiards with His Majesty.\" The king's appreciation was strictly contextual, a fact noticed by the politician Ion G. Duca: although Kalideru \"entertained illusions\" that he was personal friends with Carol, the latter \"made sure to dispel it\"; the courtier could be the king's \"servant and useful instrument, but never his friend.\" Reportedly, Carol also ordered Kalinderu to admonish Crown Prince Ferdinand and Princess Marie for their lavish spending. The future Queen Marie was much amused by Kalinderu, describing him as \"little, round, with a short beard and a pronounced Semitic nose; one of his eyes sparkled wickedly, showing an unusually sharp intelligence\". She recalled a visit with him to Windsor Castle, where \"it was truly amusing to see the short gentleman very pleased with himself, catching everything with his glimpse, weighing, judging, taking the measure of people and things, with that small, penetrating, almost wicked eye\". Even when meeting Queen Victoria, his eye \"roved throughout, as if he feared missing something\". When he was shown the castle's art treasures, he observed them \"with the superior air of a man in the know, of a man who was familiar with valuable collections\".\n\nAs noted by the queen, Kalinderu's \"vain, self-satisfied appearance\" became \"a tireless temptation for caricaturists\". During the nine years in which their activity overlapped, the magazine \"Furnica\" made him a buffoonish stock character in prose, poetry, and cartoons. \"Furnica\"s George Ranetti also circulated serious charges against Kalinderu, accusing him of having run over a child with his car, and implying that he had used his connections to avoid prosecution. During the peasants' revolt, \"Furnica\" published a cartoon showing Kalinderu as a personification of Cajolery, interposing himself between Carol and The Truth (personified by a tenant farmer); issues of that period were confiscated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Reportedly, Kalinderu himself was generally aware of the mockery, but pretended to be \"inviolable\", and even incited Ranetti by riding his horse to his office. However, \"Furnica\" gleefully reported, he lost his temper with the painter Ion Theodorescu-Sion, who had contributed a set of cartoons to the campaign. According to the magazine, this incident showed his limitations as an art patron.\n\nAmong Kalinderu's late contributions as a philanthropist was his involvement with the Romanian Red Cross. From October 1912, he served on its general council, alongside Sturdza, Gheorghe Grigore Cantacuzino, Grigore C. Crăiniceanu, Nicolae Filipescu, and Alexandru Obregia. He spent the better part of 1913 in conflict with the Conservative government, headed by his old rival Maiorescu. Against Maiorescu, Kalinderu tried to persuade Carol not to renew the pact tying Romania to the Triple Alliance. Arguing that it constituted support for a German hegemony, he managed to postpone its ratification. One of his final gestures was the intervention in favor of a protegé scholar, Orest Tafrali, for whom he obtained a chair at Iași University. He also made returns to scholarship, publishing in 1912 a commentary on the influence of Byzantine art on Romanian visual culture. It built on observations made by Gabriel Millet.\n\nKalinderu died in December 1913, and was buried at Bellu cemetery, Plot 5, next to his father and his brother. The funeral witnessed speeches by Constantin C. Arion, Constantin Istrati, Basile M. Missir, and Sabba Ștefănescu. Kalinderu intended to disinherit his relatives and see his name praised after giving lavish donations to royal and academic institutions of culture; however, none of the wills were written in legal form, so that Kalinderu's wealth largely ended up going to his relatives. The mystery and scandal surrounding Kalinderu's last wish inspired a novella by Nicolae M. Condiescu. This fictionalizes one theory, according to which Kalinderu (\"Conu Enake\" in the story) writes down a will donating his fortune to the Academy, then destroys it on a whim.\n\nFrom 1914, Kalideru's job at the crown domains went to Barbu Știrbey. A museum bearing Ioan and Nicolae's names, containing their respective art collections, opened the same year. The first private art museum in the country, it suffered damages during World War I: its Romanian-art section was evacuated during the battle of Bucharest, then confiscated by Bolshevik Russia. Kalinderu's park at Schitu-Greci was vandalized during the war and, by 1934, had still not been repaired.\n\nReopened during the interwar with the remainder of its collection, the Kalinderu museum had Jean Alexandru Steriadi as its last director. It was eventually closed in 1946, shortly before the inauguration of a Romanian communist regime. Following the Romanian Revolution of 1989, Kalinderu's work and legacy were revisited: in 2005, a project to reestablish Kalinderu Museum was being debated. In January 2014, the centennial of Kalinderu's death was solemnly marked by the General Association of Romanian Engineers, which discussed opening up a museum of the crown domains in Segarcea.\n\n"}
{"id": "53532259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53532259", "title": "Johannes Gjerdåker", "text": "Johannes Gjerdåker\n\nJohannes Gjerdåker (born 15 February 1936) is a Norwegian local historian, poet, translator, non-fiction writer and publisher.\n\nGjerdåker was born in Voss, and studied history and language at the University of Oslo. He made his literary debut in 1978 with the poetry collection \"Skot på gamal stuv\". He has written several works on local history of Voss and Hordaland. In 1992 he was awarded the cultural prize from the municipality of Voss. He received the Bastian Prize in 1997 and the Melsom Prize in 1999, both for translation of works by Robert Burns into Nynorsk. In 2005 he received the Critics Prize for the year's best work of translation, for translation of works by Horace.\n"}
{"id": "54452503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54452503", "title": "John Maddison (architectural historian)", "text": "John Maddison (architectural historian)\n\nJohn M. Maddison FSA (born 1952) is a Scottish architectural historian and artist. He was architectural adviser to the Victorian Society and then historic buildings representative to the National Trust in East Anglia. He is a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London. He is a former chair of the governors of Norwich School of Art and Design and trustee of the Cambridgeshire Historic Churches Trust. He designed a new altarpiece in eight panels for Bishop Alcock's Chapel at Ely Cathedral.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26867298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26867298", "title": "Julián Juderías", "text": "Julián Juderías\n\nJulián Juderías y Loyot (September 16, 1877 – June 19, 1918) was a Spanish historian, sociologist, literary critic, journalist, translator and interpreter.\n\nJuderías was born in Madrid to a prominent an cultured family. His father, Mariano Juderías, was a well-known historical author and translator. His mother was French. At 17, he began work with the Spanish Ministry of State. In 1900, after the death of his father, he moved to Paris to attend the School of Eastern Languages. There and in Leipzig and Odesa he studied French, German, Russian and other languages. His main work was a study about the Black Legend, in which he denounced the tendentious, nonobjective historical writing or propaganda about Spain, its people and its culture.\n\nYears after his death, Juderías' works greatly influenced conservative thinkers such as Ramiro de Maeztu and José María de Areilza.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39571541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39571541", "title": "Landulf Junior", "text": "Landulf Junior\n\nLandulf of Saint Paul (floruit 1077–1137), called Landulf Junior to distinguish him from Landulf Senior, was a Milanese historian whose life is known entirely from his main work, the Historia Mediolanensis. He presents a unique and important point of view from the conflict-ridden years of 1097–1137 in Milan. He thrice sojourned in France while his ecclesiastical faction—the Pataria—was out of favour in Milan, and there learned under some of the leading philosophers of western Europe. After 1113, Landulf's primary ambition was to regain the priesthood in the church of San Paolo which he had lost, and to this end he communicated with popes and emperors. He played a role—large in his own account—in the election of Conrad of Hohenstaufen as King of Italy in 1128.\n\nLandulf's birth year can be approximated from his statement that he was \"sixty years old\" (\"sexagenariae aetatis\") in 1136. He was a nephew and student of Liprando, a Milanese priest and one of the leaders of the Pataria in the last quarter of the eleventh century. Towards the end of the century, Landulf became an acolyte (\"acolitus\"), which was recognised as the highest-ranking of the minor orders in Milan at the time. He held this rank for the rest of his life. In 1095–96, Landulf studied under master Andrea Dalvolto, a priest of the church of San Tecla. Among his fellow students was Nazario Muricola, later his enemy. Later, probably in 1102, he went to Orléans to study under the masters Alfred and James. He may have been avoiding the conflict between the Patarenes, led by Liprando, and the new Papally-approved archbishop, Grosolanus. He was absent from Milan in 1103, when his uncle passed a trial by ordeal.\n\nLandulf returned to Milan, but left for France again in 1106. There he stayed for a year and a half with the prominent reforming Milanese churchmen Anselmo della Pusterla and Olrico da Corte, perhaps acting as their secretary. In Tours he sat under the teaching of a master Alfred, perhaps the same one that had taught him half a decade earlier in Orléans, and in Paris he received lessons from the philosopher William of Champeaux. In 1107, Landulf returned again to Milan and escorted his uncle back from exile at Civate.\n\nIn 1109, Landulf's brother Antelmo died in the war between Milan and Lodi, and Landulf again went to France with Anselmo della Pusterla and Olrico da Corte. This time he stayed in Laon and learned under Anselm and his brother Ralph. This is the first trip abroad which Landulf characterises as an exile in his \"Historia\", noting that the city magistrate suggested their long absence in order to keep the peace between factions.\n\nLandulf returned to Milan in 1110. He looked favourably upon the entry of the Emperor Henry V into Italy in 1111. That year he fell out with Olrico da Corte upon the latter's abandonment of the Patarene position when he was made an archpresbyter. In 1112–13 Landulf served in his uncle's former church of San Paolo in Compito, since lost, but remembered in the street named Via San Paolo. With his uncle, he founded a church dedicated to the Trinity at an unidentified place called \"Pons Guinizeli\". With Liprando and Andrea, \"primicerius\" and head of the \"decumani\", Landulf also opposed the election of Jordan as archbishop in early 1112. When Jordan offered to make Landulf a subdeacon and cancel one of his debts in return for recognition of his legitimacy from the Pataria, Landulf refused.\n\nWith death of Liprando in January 1113 and of Andrea shortly after, Landulf found himself marginalised. He was expelled from San Paolo and from the ranks of the \"decumani\" by Andrea's successor, Nazario Muricola. Thus forced to seek an income outside of the church, he became a teacher and scribe, even working for the municipal government as a \"holder of public offices and notary of consular letters\" (\"publicorum officiorum particeps et consulum epistolarum dictator\"). This is the earliest reference to consuls in medieval Milan.\n\nFor the rest of his life Landulf tried to recover his office in San Paolo. According to him, Jordan made vague promises to get his support at the Lateran council of 1116, but reneged at an assembly (\"arengo\") in 1117. Landulf obtained a letter of recommendation from Pope Gelasius II, which Jordan ignored, in 1118. He went to Rome to plead his case to Pope Callistus II in 1120, but the pope did not intervene. Only with the death of Jordan in October and his replacement by Olrico, Landulf's former companion, did the latter achieve some redress—he returned to the \"decumani\", but was not reinstated in San Paolo. He attempted again to plead with Pope Callistus at the Lateran council of 1123–24, but could not get an audience. In 1125 he joined a Milanese embassy to Germany, hoping to plead his case to Emperor Henry, but the mission was cut short by the latter's death and never got further than Trent.\n\nIn 1126, Olrico was succeeded as archbishop by Anselmo della Pusterla. Landulf's former travelling companion appointed him head of the archiepiscopal chapel, in which capacity he served as a secretary and counsellor. In 1127 Conrad of Hohenstaufen was elected king in Germany in opposition to the emperor-elect Lothair of Supplinburg. Archbishop Anselm charged Landulf with ascertaining whether the Milanese would support Conrad or Lothair, while he himself left the city. Landulf afterwards claimed an important role in the choice of Conrad, who was crowned by Anselmo as King of Italy in 1128, first at Monza, where the Iron Crown was kept, then at Milan. In 1130, when Anselmo gave his support to the Antipope Anacletus II, Landulf followed him. In 1135, he was convinced by Bernard of Clairvaux to support Pope Innocent II, but when Anselmo was deposed and fled the city, Landulf was again pushed to the margins by a new archbishop, Robaldo di Alba.\n\nIn November 1136, Landulf renewed his claim on the church of San Paolo before Lothair of Supplinburg, now undisputed emperor, who was holding court at Roncaglia. The emperor refused to adjudicate the dispute, leaving it to the local authorities. According to Landulf, the machinations of Arnaldo di Rho, chief of a clan traditionally opposed to the Pataria, succeeding in blocking his ambitions once more. This is the last notice of Landulf's life. He was still alive in the summer of 1137: he records the Battle of Genivolta, a victory for Milan over Cremona early that year, and the flight of Bishop Oberto di Dovara of Cremona, who wound up a prisoner of the Milanese, some months later.\n\nThe title \"Historia Mediolanensis\", meaning \"A Milanese History\", is not contemporary. It was used as a source by several later medieval historians: Bonvesin da La Riva, Goffredo da Bussero, Benzo d'Alessandria and perhaps Galvano Fiamma. Nevertheless, it survives in only one manuscript tradition, at the font of which stands the fifteenth-century manuscript H.89.inf. in the Biblioteca Ambrosiana in Milan. Also at the Ambrosiana are N.296 sup., R.119 sup. and Trotti, 168; at the Biblioteca Trivulziana, also in Milan, is manuscript 348. All these are copies of H.89.inf., a low-quality manuscript littered with errors and gaps. The codex contains, besides the \"Historia\" of Landulf Junior, several other histories of Milan: the \"Historia\" of Landulf Senior, the \"Liber gestorum recentium\" of Arnulf of Milan and a \"Passio\" on the death of Arialdo in 1066, once though to have been by Landulf Junior. In the manuscript the \"Historia\" is titled \"The Book of the Histories of the Milanese City by Landulf of St Paul\" (\"Liber hystoriarum Mediolanensis urbis Landulfi de S. Paulo\"). Medieval writers referred to it as the \"Copia Landulfi\" (\"Landulf's Store\"), probably based on the last line of the manuscript, \"in hac mea copia\". The term was sometimes applied to Arnulf's \"Liber gestorum recentium\" and the term \"Copia Arnulfi\" was sometimes applied to Landulf's \"Historia\", suggesting perhaps that the four works of Milanese history were treated as a single collection.\n\nLandulf's \"Historia\" begins with the disputed election of Anselmo da Bovisio to the see of Milan in 1097. The narrative, which coincides with Landulf's adult life, is compact and circular. It begins with the unjust intervention of a Papal officer, Hermann, in the affairs of the church of Milan and ends with the restoration of good relations between Milan and the Papacy by Bernard of Clairvaux. Landulf places the blame for the Milan's problems on Hermann, and notes with satisfaction that both Archbishops Anselmo III and Arnulf III refusd to consecrate him after his election as bishop of Brescia. He also approves of King Conrad II's refusal to have anything to do with Anselmo da Bovisio or Hermann's consecration.\n\nAlthough Landulf is a partisan narrator and his account judgemental as well as personal, it is historically valuable for its eyewitness testimony and its uncritical attitude. Landulf writes \"without thorough understanding and remain[s] disturbed by the progressive breaking apart of the traditional order\" that birthed the Milanese \"comune\". The quality of Landulf's writing is unexepectedly poor for one who received an education from the leading philosophers of France.\n\nThe \"Historia\" received its \"editio princeps\" from G. A. Sassi, on behalf of Ludovico Muratori, in 1724. The standard critical edition is that of Ludwig Bethmann and Philipp Jaffé for the \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\" in 1868.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37162401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37162401", "title": "Lexicon Topographicum Urbis Romae", "text": "Lexicon Topographicum Urbis Romae\n\nThe Lexicon Topographicum Urbis Romae (1993‑2000) is a six-volume, multilingual reference work considered to be the major, modern work covering the topography of ancient Rome. The editor is Eva Margareta Steinby, and the publisher is Edizioni Quasar of Rome. It is considered the successor to Platner and Ashby's \"A Topographical Dictionary of Ancient Rome\".\n\nAn ongoing series of supplements provides additional coverage of Roman topography and important topics in the archaeology of the city.\n\n\nA subsequent series, \"Lexicon topographicum urbis Romae: Suburbium\", edited by and produced by Edizioni Quasar covers sites in the \"suburbium\" of ancient Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "41326149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41326149", "title": "Lilian Hamilton Jeffery", "text": "Lilian Hamilton Jeffery\n\nLilian Hamilton Jeffery (5 January 1915 – 29 September 1986) was a British archaeologist, classical philologist and epigraphist best remembered for her 1961 work \"The Local Scripts of Archaic Greece\". Building on the work of Adolf Kirchhoff and Antony E. Raubitschek, Jeffery surveyed the development of the Greek alphabet from its adoption down to the fifth century BC and in so doing established the chronology of archaic inscriptions.\n\nLilian (Anne) Jeffery was born at Westcliff-on-Sea to, Thomas Theophilus Jeffery, a schoolmaster and lecturer in Classics, and Lilian Mary Hamilton. She was educated at Cheltenham Ladies' College and in 1933 won a Major Classical scholarship to Newnham College, Cambridge where she studied under Jocelyn Toynbee.\n\nShe won the Walton Studenship to the British School at Athens in 1937, where she contributed to the work of Antony E. Raubitschek on the sculptural fragments of the Acropolis, co-publishing with him the 1949 book \"Dedications from the Athenian Akropolis\". She served in the WAAF during World War II; part of her duties included intelligence interpretation of aerial photographs.\n\nIn 1946 she took up the position of research fellow at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, where she remained for the rest of her career apart from a period of research at the Institute of Advanced Studies at Princeton from September 1951 to June 1952. Her archaeological work included field study with the British School at Old Smyrna (Bayrakli) in 1949. She also made major contributions to the study of Attic grave monuments and the epigraphical edition project \"Inscriptiones Graecae\" i. From 1955 until 1961 she was an editor of the \"Annual of the British School at Athens.\" She was made a Fellow of the British Academy in 1965.\n\nHer archive is preserved at the Centre for the Study of Ancient Documents, Oxford, digitised and published online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20230301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20230301", "title": "List of Olof Palme memorials", "text": "List of Olof Palme memorials\n\nThis is a list of memorials and places named in honor of Olof Palme, the assassinated Prime Minister of Sweden.\n\n\n\nOlof Palme Street, New Brighton, Ibhayi (Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality), Republic of South Africa.\n\nOlof Palme Primary School, Katutura, Windhoek, Namibia.\n"}
{"id": "28739888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28739888", "title": "List of rulers of Ife", "text": "List of rulers of Ife\n\nThe Ooni of Ile-Ife (Ọọ̀ni of Ilè-Ifẹ̀) is the traditional ruler of Ile-Ife. This Nigerian town is seen as the cradle of the Yoruba people. The Ooni dynasties go back hundreds of years. Because the oral tradition was only recently transcribed, there are several detailed lists that contradict each other. Nevertheless, some key figures are common to all of them. All the Ooni are traced down to Oduduwa, who is seen as the ancestral father of all the Yoruba people. Ooni Oranmiyan, who is said to have lived between 1200 and 1300 A.D, became legendary for his role in creating many new towns. One of his sons, Eweka, became the first Oba of Benin. Another son, Ajaka, became the first Alaafin of Oyo. Another, Osile, of Oke-Ona Egba. Ooni Lajamisan, another descendant of Oranmiyan is often said to have opened the modern Ife history. \nThe four actual Ruling Houses are named from Ooni Lafogido, Ooni Osinkola, Ooni Ogboru and Ooni Giesi. The first three were sons of Ooni Lajodogun, and the later a maternal grandson of Ogboru. The current Ooni is Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja II (born October 17, 1974)\n\nThe primary sources for the history of the Yoruba are from oral tradition. Since there were not ceremonial recitations of the list of the Oonis (at burial or at crowning), there are in fact several oral traditions, that have generated an unusual number of different written transcriptions. In what follows, #nn is the index of the Ooni in the A list (see table, column LA).\n\nSources for the 50 items A list\nSources for the 50 items B list\n\n\nThe filling of the stool of a deceased Ooni of Ife is not a simple local affair as it may seem but has national ramifications. Since Ife is regarded as the cradle of the Yoruba, this town has always been the leading religious center of the Yoruba people. But other roles are also involved. Especially, the Ooni of Ife is often presented as the highest ranked Oba or, even more, as the natural chairman of the Council of Yoruban Chiefs.\nThe rules to fill a vacant stool are the Chiefs Law Cap 25 Laws of Osun State (modified 2002). And the Declaration made in 1980 by the traditional Chiefs under Section 4(2) of this Chief Law. In 1957, the former Declaration recognised four ruling houses and established the following order of rotation: \n\nIn 1977, references to locations in Ife were suppressed. And the January 1980 Declaration confirmed everything just before the death of Adesoji Aderemi. These families are tagged in column desc, as sourced from Vanguard for Lafog, Osink, Ogbor, Giesi. And Newz for the rest. (Both sources don't give their own sources).\n\nIn 2015, it was the turn of the Giesi Family, as confirmed by the Ife kingmakers. Nevertheless:\n\nFinally, Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, from the Giesi house, was elected October 26, 2015.\n\nThe Yoruba language is written using the Pan-Nigerian alphabet. This alphabet makes use of many diacritic signs. Like for the McCune–Reischauer system for Korean, this leads to several variant spellings where the diacritics are omitted for various reasons. But the case of Yoruba is worse than that of Korean as what is transcribed is a language that was not previously written down at all apart from Ajami script: the romanization becomes locutor-dependent. Some examples are (diacritics removed):\nIn the aggregated table, differences that clearly come only from pronunciation have been ignored.\n\n\nPrinting fixes everything, even the typographic issues.\n\n\n\"\"At least, it can be said that the existence of numerous variants requires explanation, and an interpretation can be assessed according to how satisfactorily it accounts for their existence. The method might be described as one of\" reductio ad non absurdum.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "145699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145699", "title": "Mantle (monastic vesture)", "text": "Mantle (monastic vesture)\n\nA mantle (; Church Slavonic: мантия, mantiya) is an ecclesiastical garment in the form of a very full cape that extends to the floor, joined at the neck, that is worn over the outer garments. \n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Eastern Catholic churches, the mantle is a monastic garment worn by bishops, hegumens, archimandrites, and other monastics in processions and while attending various church services, such as Vespers or Matins; but not when vested to celebrate the Divine Liturgy. Unlike the Western cope, the mantle is worn only by monastics. The klobuk is worn over the mantle.\n\nThe mantle was originally a cape worn simply to ward off the cold. The mantle was first mentioned in the Old Testament, as a garment worn by several prophets including Elijah and Elisha. In , the mantle passing from Elijah the prophet, to Elisha, his successor, symbolizes the passing of prophetic authority: \n\nDepictions of monks on icons show the mantle in use from the earliest Christian times. The original monastic mantle was of simple material: black, brown or grey, depending on what was at hand. As time went on, the use of mantles of a particular color and style came to be established as specific monastic vesture. Over the years distinguishing colors and ornamentation came to be applied to the mantle to distinguish monastics of higher positions within the church, while still reminding them of the need for monastic humility.\n\nIn the contemporary practice of the Eastern Orthodox Church, Monks & Nuns wear solid black mantles. They also wear veils, differing between traditions and rank. In common practice, monks wear a black veil that covers a Kalimavkion, a cylindrical hat. Abbesses also wear this same veil and hat while nuns only wear the veil. The practice of wearing a kalimavkion below the veil has only arisen in the last 300 years, and prior to this period, monks either wore no veil, or wore a pointed veil, as seen in many Russians of the old rite and icons of African saints. Nuns have been wearing a veil, in addition to the mantle since at least the 11th Century.\n\nThe monastic mantle is worn by Orthodox Christian monks and nuns of the Lesser Schema and Great Schema. In the Greek practice the use of the mantle by those of the Lesser Schema is less common. (It is not worn by Rassaphores). The mantle worn by a simple monk or nun is black (black being the traditional monastic color, symbolizing mourning over one's sins and a reminder of the vow of poverty), joined at the neck and hanging down to the feet. In the Russian tradition, the mantle is usually pleated (33 pleats for the number of years in the earthly life of Jesus). It may or may not have a train. Over the centuries, much symbolic meaning has come to be attributed to the mantle: \n\n\"[The] mantle is a monastic vestment, which covers the whole person with the exception of the head. Its freely flowing lines typify the wings of the Angels; hence it is called \"the Angelic vestment.\" The folds of the Mantle are symbolical of the all-embracing power of God; and also of the strictness, piety and meekness of the monastic life; and that the hands and other members of a monk do not live, and are not fitted for worldly activity, but are all dead.\"\n\n\"[The mantle] is called 'the garment of incorruption and purity' [in the text of the Tonsure ceremony], and the absence of sleeves is to remind the monk that he is debarred from worldly pursuits. The mantle is given him in token of the 'exalted angelic state' which he assumes\"\n\nThe mantle is bestowed upon a monk when he becomes as Stavrophore (Lesser Schema), for which reason this rank of monk is sometimes referred to as a \"mantle monk\". The mantle is bestowed a second time if he becomes a Schemamonk (Greater Schema).\n\nAn Hegumen (Abbot) or Hegumenia (Abbess) wears the simple monastic mantle.\n\nWhen an Orthodox monk or nun dies, they are vested in their religious habit. A strip of cloth is torn from the bottom of their mantle and is used to bind their body three times: around the chest, around the waist, and around the feet.\n\nThe mantle worn by an archimandrite will be joined in front at the bottom as well as at the neck, and will have \"tablets\" or \"pectorals\" (Greek: πόματα, \"pómata\"; Slavonic: \"skrizhali\")—rectangular pieces of red or green cloth sewn onto the corners of the mantle (i.e., two at the neck and two at the feet). The upper two tablets (those at the neck) will often be embroidered with crosses. The tablets symbolize the fact that the Archimandrite will guide the brethren according to the commandments of God. The four tablets being symbolic of the Old and the New Testaments, and of the Four Gospels.\n\nWhen an archimandrite dies, his mantle is laid on his coffin in place of a funeral pall.\n\nThere is also an episcopal mantle which is not worn with the other episcopal vestments while celebrating the Divine Liturgy, but when the bishop formally enters the church beforehand, or when a bishop is formally attending (i.e., presiding over) a service in which he is not serving. Among the Greeks, it is common for all bishops regardless of rank, to wear a red mantle; however, many also use purple during Great Lent. In the Slavic tradition, a more complex color scheme has developed, and hierarchs wear different-colored mantles according to their rank: violet for bishops; plum for archbishops; blue for metropolitans; and green for patriarchs in the Russian tradition. Different national churches have different traditions regarding the colors worn by bishops.\n\nIn the Russian tradition, the episcopal mantiya is characteristically decorated with red and white horizontal ribbons, called \"rivers\" or \"streams\" (Greek: ποταμοί, \"potamoí\"; Slavonic: \"Istochniki\"), symbolizing the word of God going out into the entire world (, , ). Among the Greeks, these rivers are usually gold.\n\nThe tablets on the Bishop's mantle may be more finely embroidered or made of more costly material than those on the mantle of an archimandrite. The upper tablets (those at the neck) may be embroidered with icons; those at the feet may be embroidered with the bishop's monogram. The episcopal tablets symbolise the four Gospels which must be the focus of a bishop's teachings. The episcopal mantle always has a train on it, and may have small bells attached as well, recalling the bells attached to the Robe of the High Priest ().\n\nIn general, when a bishop celebrates any service other than the Divine Liturgy (or when he is attending, but not celebrating Liturgy), he will wear the mantle with the Epitrachelion, the Omophorion (the latter being worn outside the mantle), and, in some liturgical traditions, the Cuffs. He will also stand on an Orlets.\n\nWhen a bishop dies, his mantle is laid on his coffin in place of a funeral pall.\n\n"}
{"id": "31563903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31563903", "title": "Maoilin Mac Bruideadha", "text": "Maoilin Mac Bruideadha\n\nMaoilin Mac Bruideadha, Irish poet, died 1582.\n\nMaoilin succeeded his brother, Diarmuid Mac Bruideadha, as head of the family and ollamh to O Brian. He was succeeded by his son, Maoilin Óg.\n\nThe name is now anglicized as Mac Brody or Brody.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11561810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11561810", "title": "Markos Giolias", "text": "Markos Giolias\n\nMarkos Giolias () is a historian and writer. He was born in Granitsa, Evrytania and is a professor at Panteios University.\n"}
{"id": "17768219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17768219", "title": "Max Engman", "text": "Max Engman\n\nMax Robert Engman (27 September 1945 in Helsinki), is a Finnish historian and translator.\n\nEngman, who 1968–1973 was an official at the Finnish national archives in Helsinki, published 1983 a much noticed dissertation about St. Petersburg and Finland. He was appointed professor 1985 in general history at Åbo Akademi.\n\nEngman has in his research foremost studied the Finnish-Russian relations and the European empires. He has also studied constitutional issues and the administration. His contribution as subeditor for \"Historisk Tidskrift för Finland\" 1971–1982 and the journals editor in chief 1982–2000 is considered as great. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "36289205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36289205", "title": "Merdiban", "text": "Merdiban\n\nMerdiban was an accounting method used by the Ottoman empire, Abbasid empire, and Ilkhanate; especially for recording tax payments and liabilities.\n\nThe word \"Merdiban\" is derived from \"merdiven\", a word of Persian origin, meaning \"\"staircase\" or \"ladder\"\". The Ottomans themselves generally called this method \"muhasebe usulü\" (method of accounting).\n\nAbbasid accounting techniques were inherited by the Ilkhanate and then the Ottoman Empire; spanning several centuries until modern double-entry accounting was adopted post-Tanzimat.\n\nMerdiban originated in the Abbasid Caliphate; the first likely example has been found in an eighth-century government document. After the conquest of Baghdad by Mongol forces in 1258, many Persian and Arab officials were employed by the Ikhanate. As the Mongols lacked strong state institutions, local systems were adopted, including accounting techniques. For instance, the Abbasids had a kind of daily ledger called a Defter-ul Yevmiye; the Ilkhanate adopted the same kind of daily ledger but called it Ruznamce. (The later Ottoman ruznamçe was similar).\n\nGhazan (1295–1304) made fiscal reforms; these drove more detailed record-keeping and, hence, further development of accounting techniques. Centralised fiscal record-keeping was divided according to provinces, and each team reported to a \"katip\" (which roughly corresponds to \"clerk\") - the same title used in the Abbasid state. \"Katip\" continued to be used to describe Ottoman accountants, although their official title was \"halife\". The Risale-i Felekiyye, written in 1363 by Abdullah bin Muhammad bin Kiya Al-Mazandarani, was a manual of accounting, and is an important source for modern historians. The technique set out in the Risale begins to resemble a crude early attempt at double-entry accounting, but there is little evidence that this influenced the development of modern double-entry accounting in Italy.\n\nIt is possible that other states used accounting systems based on merdiban, but documentary evidence is sparse.\n\nIn the Ottoman empire, accounting was not taught systematically in madrasahs or other schools; instead, it was taught on a master-apprentice basis in the workplace, especially the Hazine-i Amire (finance ministry). So, few instruction documents survive from this era.\n\nMerdiban was named because of the descending sequence in which amounts were recorded; a total at the top, and then individual items below. Typically, the last letter of the first word in an entry would be extended all the way across a line from left to right, acting as a separator between entries.\n\nMediban was usually recorded in \"siyakat\" script; a specialised and condensed form of text, almost stenographic, which was used where much of the content was numerical. Siyakat was so widely associated with accounting and fiscal documents that it became a synonym.\n"}
{"id": "6789806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6789806", "title": "Michael Cox (academic)", "text": "Michael Cox (academic)\n\nMichael E. Cox (born 1947) is a British academic and international relations scholar. He is currently Emeritus Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics (LSE) and Director of LSE IDEAS. He also teaches for the TRIUM Global Executive MBA Program, an alliance of NYU Stern and the London School of Economics and HEC School of Management.\n\nCox was educated at the University of Reading. He has taught at Queen's University Belfast (1972–1995), San Diego State University (1986), the College of William and Mary in Virginia (1987–1989), the University of Wales, Aberystwyth (1995–2001), the Catholic University of Milan (2003 and 2004) and the University of Melbourne (2004). He was also a Visiting Professor at the Centre for Defence and Strategic Studies in Canberra, Australia, between 2003 and 2004. In 2003, he became a Chair at the London School of Economics.\n\nAt LSE he helped establish the Cold War Studies Centre in 2004, along with Professor Odd Arne Westad, where they were Co-Directors are also Co-Editors of the London School of Economics CWSC journal, \"Cold War History\". In 2008 the Cold War Studies Centre expanded into LSE IDEAS, a foreign policy centre based which aims to bring the academic and policy words together. In a 2014 international survey, IDEAS was ranked 2nd in the world amongst the best university affiliated Think Tanks.\n\nIn 2011, he launched a new Executive Masters in Global Strategy (executive MSc International Strategy and Diplomacy) designed to teach mid-career professionals from the public, private, and NGO sectors who deal with international relations, diplomacy, security, and international business in their working lives. He is the current Director of the programme. In addition, since joining the LSE Cox has also acted as Academic Director of both the LSE-PKU Summer School and of the Executive Summer School.\n\nAs a writer, Cox has authored many books on international politics, the Cold War, US foreign policy and the behaviour of superpowers. He has contributed to many academic journals and has been the editor of the \"Review of International Studies\", \"International Relations\" and \"International Politics\". He is also the General Editor of \"Rethinking World Politics\", a Palgrave book series. and Routledge's Cold War History.\n\nProfessor Cox is a well-known speaker on global affairs and has lectured in the United States, Australia, Asia, and in the EU. He has spoken on a range of contemporary global issues, though most recently he has focused on the role of the United States in the international system, the rise of Asia, and whether or not the world is now in the midst of a major power shift.\n\nCox has been a member of the Executive Committee of the British International Studies Association and the Irish National Committee for the Study of International Affairs. From 1994, he became an Associate Research Fellow at Chatham House, London. Between 2001 and 2002, he was Director of the David Davies Memorial Institute for the Study of International Politics. He was appointed as a senior fellow at the Nobel Institute in Oslo in 2002. In 2003, he was Chair of the United States Discussion Group at the Royal Institute of International Affairs. He became a member of the board of the Cambridge Studies in International Relations in 2003. He held the Publications portfolio on the European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR) before being elected Chair of the ECPR, the biggest political science association in Europe and the second largest in the world, in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1733948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1733948", "title": "Midhat Frashëri", "text": "Midhat Frashëri\n\nMid’hat Frashëri (also known by his nom de plume as Lumo Skëndo; ; 25 March 1880, Janina, Janina Vilayet, Ottoman Empire – 3 October 1949, Long Island, New York) was an Albanian diplomat, writer and politician. The son of Abdyl Frashëri, one of the most important activists of the Albanian National Awakening in 1908 he participated in the Congress of Monastir. In 1942 he became the president of Balli Kombëtar (National Front) and collaborated with German forces while his cousin became the prime minister of the puppet government of Albania. Frashëri was one among others, a father of Albanian Nationalism.\n\nMid’hat bey Frashëri was the son of prominent Albanian politician and statesman from 19th century Abdyl Frashëri (who initiated the movement of a wide autonomy from Ottoman Empire) and nephew of the poets and nationalists Naim Frashëri and Sami Frashëri. He was born in Janina in the Ottoman Empire (present day Ioannina, Greece) in 1880 and was raised in Istanbul, where his family worked in the Ottoman administration and organised the Albanian nationalist movement. In 1897 Mid'hat Frashëri was arrested by Ottoman authorities for having a copy of the newspaper Albania, and was released after intervention by his uncle Sami Frashëri. During 1901, Mid'hat Frashëri published a biography on his uncle Naim Frashëri. Giving up his studies of pharmacology, he worked for the Ottoman administration in the vilayet of Salonika from 1905 to 1910. Frashëri published a yearly almanac \"Kalendari Kombiar\" (National Calendar) that was printed in Sofia and distributed in the Balkans from there. The publication held moderate positions were Frashëri advocated for national unity, development of Albanian education, schools and literature and opposed foreign power intervention in Albanian affairs. Frashëri also called for government reforms an alliance with Macedonians to achieve those aims, but he was against armed resistance. Regarding the Albanian question and geopolitics, Frashëri was known in Albanian circles of the time to be anti-Austro-Hungarian and anti-Italian.\n\nUsing the pen name Lumo Skendo, he began publishing the weekly newspaper \"Lirija\" in Salonika, which lasted until 1910. He participated in the Congress of Monastir in 1908, and in January of the next year, he began editing a monthly magazine entitled \"Diturija\", a magazine based on the cultural, literary and scholarly interest of Albania. In 1908, the Albanian club dealing with cultural and political issues was founded in Salonika and Frashëri was voted by 400 Albanian delegates as its president. Frashëri favoured the Salonika club being the headquarters of the Bashkimi (Union) Society however other Albanian clubs concerned about Young Turk influence in the city rejected that view and instead opted for the Monastir club. Ottoman authorities forbid writing in Albanian that resulted in publications being published abroad and like other writers of the time Frashëri used a pseudonym Mali Kokojka to bypass those restrictions for his works. By late 1911, Frashëri had joined the Freedom and Accord Party which was founded by him and ten others who were opponents of the Young Turks and advocated for Ottomanism, government decentralisation and the rights of ethnic minorities.\n\nMid’hat Frashëri was one of the fifty delegates that who helped form the modern Albanian alphabet. He became vice-chairman of the commission. Frashëri was also elected chairman of the congress which was responsible for the organization of the various alphabet proposals along with Parashqevi Qiriazi who was chairwoman of the commission of the alphabet. During the alphabet congress Frashëri supported the adoption of the Latin character Istanbul alphabet for writing the Albanian language.\n\nMid’hat bey’s political views took on a nationalist character during the Balkan Wars and in the final collapse of the Ottoman Empire when Albania was on the verge of being carved up by its Balkan neighbours. Unlike some of his cousins who remained in what later became Turkey, Frashëri moved to Albania after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire. Mid’hat Frashëri was one of the eighty-three leaders meeting in Vlorë in November 1912. He was one of the signers of the declaration of independence and became the Minister of Public Services in the Provisional Government of Albania. He later became the Albanian consul general in Belgrade and postmaster general. At the beginning of World War I, Mid'hat was interned in Romania for a time, but after he was released, he returned to publishing. Mid’hat resided in Lausanne for a time with his cousin Mehdi Frashëri, where he was author of a number of newspaper articles and essays. On 25 November 1920, he was appointed chairman of the Albanian delegation to the Paris Peace Conference, where he remained until 1922. In Paris, he continued his journalistic activities in the French press to publicize Albania’s position in the postwar restructuring of Europe. He subsequently held other ministerial posts and was Albanian ambassador to Greece and to the United States from 1922 to 1926.\n\nUnder the Zog regime in 1925, Mid’hat left public life and opened a bookstore in Tirana, and also worked as a pharmacist. He himself possessed an exceptionally large private library of some 20,000 volumes, the largest collection in the country at the time. With the rise of Germany and World War II looking inevitable, Mid'hat began forming the National Front (Balli Kombëtar) to use in the war to create Ethnic Albania.\n\nHe was the leader of the Balli Kombëtar nationalist movement during the Second World War. Balli Kombëtar was a political organization that mainly fought for an Ethnic Albania and fought antifascists groups in alliance with the German occupation forces. During 1944 he joined the German Forces as an ally and fought the anti-nazi guerrilla groups. His cousin became the prime minister of Albania.\n\nIn 1945, the communists won the war in Albania. Mid'hat escaped the communists by fleeing to southern Italy. The early years of the cold war found Mid’hat Frashëri in the West trying to patch together a coalition of anti-communist opposition forces in Britain and the United States. In August 1949, he was elected as head of a \"Free Albania\" National Committee. He died of a heart attack at the Lexington Hotel on Lexington Avenue in New York and was buried in Ferncliff Cemetery in New York.\n\nHis cousin, Mehdi Frashëri, served as Albanian Prime Minister under a German-backed Albanian Government.\n\nMid'hat Frashëri was a man of short stature with a speech impediment. He was a beloved leader and also a bibliophile. His library, one of the finest in the Balkans, became the basis for the Albanian National Library. Frashëri's entire library of some 20,000 volumes, the largest in Albania at that time, was confiscated by the new regime. The library included significant albanological works inherited from Franz Nopcsa von Felsö-Szilvás.\n\nHe was described by an Italian journalist as a man who dressed very properly with very clean white cuffs and very white hair.\n\nAlthough Frashëri was one of the signers of the Albanian Declaration of Independence in 1912, the Communists, after taking over in 1945, deleted his name from the official documents.\n\nWhen Albania declared independence from the Ottoman Empire:\n\nIn regards to Enver Hoxha's Albanian Communists:\n"}
{"id": "24659459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24659459", "title": "Munejjim-bashi Ahmed Dede", "text": "Munejjim-bashi Ahmed Dede\n\nAhmed Lütfullah (early 17th century – 27 February 1702), better known by his court title of Münejjim Bashi (; \"Chief Astrologer\"), was an Ottoman courtier, scholar, Sufi poet and historian. His chief work is the \"Jamiʿ al-Duwal\", a world history particularly valuable for the history of the medieval Muslim dynasties of the regions around the southwestern shore of the Caspian Sea (Adharbayjan, Shirvan, Arran, Derbent). In Turkish literature, he is referred to also as Ahmed Lütfullah.\n\nHis father Lütfullah was a native of Ereğli, Konya, but Ahmed was born in Salonica sometime in the first half of the 17th century (in 1631 according to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\"). He was educated at the Mevlevi dervish lodge in the quarter of Kasımpaşa, spending 15 years there under the supervision of Sheikh Halil Dede. After studies on astronomy and astrology, he advanced to the position of chief court astrologer (\"müneccimbaşi\") in 1667/8. He enjoyed his greatest prominence under Sultan Mehmed IV (reigned 1648–87), who in 1675/6 raised him to the rank of \"musahib-i padishahi\" (\"imperial companion\"), signifying his admittance to the innermost circle of the court. He retained the post until Mehmed IV's deposition in November 1687, when he was exiled to Egypt, where his adopted son Moralı Hasan Pasha served as governor. After some time he moved to Mecca, where he became the sheikh of the local Mevlevi lodge. In 1693/4 he moved to Medina for seven years. In 1700, he was recalled to Istanbul to work again as chief astrologer, but declined the offer because of his old age. He returned to Mecca, where he died on 27 February 1702. His tomb was located near the mausoleum of Khadija, the first wife of Muhammad.\n\nMünejjim Bashi's main work is the \"Jamiʿ al-Duwal\" (\"The Compendium of Nations\"), written in Arabic. It was begun at the behest of Grand Vizier Kara Mustafa, who instructed him to prepare a comprehensive historical work. It is a world history, beginning with Adam and ending in Ottoman times, in the year 1678. It is divided into three parts: the history of Muhammad, the history of pre- and non-Islamic dynasties, and the history of Islamic dynasties, concluding with the history of the Ottoman dynasty until 1678. His work is especially valuable as it preserves information from several sources now lost, especially on many minor Muslim dynasties overlooked by major historians. This is particularly the case on his use of the lost \"Taʾrikh Bab al-Abwab\" (\"History of Derbent\"), which provides much information on the dynasties of eastern Transcaucasia, Arran and Adharbayjan. His pre-Islamic section is also notable, as he used Roman and Jewish sources, as well as West European chronicles, and was the first Islamic historian to deal with dynasties like the Babylonians, the Seleucids and the Assyrians. His work also includes sections on India and China. Although several manuscript copies of the original Arabic work are known to exist, the \"Jamiʿ al-Duwal\" was for long best known and accessible through a Turkish translation by Ahmed Nedim in the 18th century, known as \"Saha'if al-Akhbar\" (\"The Pages of the Chronicle\"). Although epitomized, Nedim's version \"is very readable and not composed in the highflown literary style that prevailed in his period\". The work notably provided the main material for Vladimir Minorsky's magisterial \"Studies in Caucasian history\" (London 1953) and \"A history of Sharvan and Darband\" (Cambridge 1958). The original manuscript, considered lost for a long time, is kept partly at the Library of the Selimiye Mosque in Edirne and the rest at the Library of the Topkapi Sarayi Museum in Istanbul.\n\nIn his Chistory, Münejjim Bashi follows the method used in Islamic historiography by Ibn Khaldun, indicating his sources and submitting them to a critical investigation.\n\nAlthough best known for his history, Münejjim Bashi also wrote numerous other works, such as a collection of poems (\"diwan\") on mystical themes under the pen-name \"Ashik\" (\"lover\"), a \"Lata'if-name\", treatises on geometry, music and mysticism, theological commentaries, and a translation of anecdotes of the bawdy bard and often homoerotic Persian satyrist Ubayd Zakani.\n\nAn important work is \"Hasia\", a commentary of the interpretation of the Qur’an \"Tafsir al-baydawi al-musamma anwar altanzil wa asrar\" by Al Baidawi.\n\nOf the other works written by Müneccimbaşi the following are worth mentioning:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2619280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2619280", "title": "National Day of Catalonia", "text": "National Day of Catalonia\n\nThe National Day of Catalonia ( ) is a day-long festival in Catalonia and one of its official national symbols, celebrated annually on 11 September. It commemorates the fall of Barcelona during the War of the Spanish Succession in 1714 and the subsequent loss of Catalan institutions and laws.\n\nThe Army of Catalonia that initially fought in support of the Habsburg dynasty's claim to the Spanish throne were finally defeated at the Siege of Barcelona by the army of the Bourbon king Philip V of Spain on 11 September 1714 after 14 months of siege. That meant the loss of the Catalan constitutions and the institutional system of the Principality of Catalonia under the aegis of the Nueva Planta decrees, and the establishment of absolutism.\n\nThe holiday was first celebrated on 11 September 1886. In 1888, coinciding with the inauguration of the Barcelona Universal Exposition, a statue in honor of Rafael Casanova was set up, which would become the point of reference of the events of the Diada. The celebration gained popularity over the following years; the Diada of 1923 was a great mass event, with more than a thousand floral offerings, acts throughout Catalonia and a certain institutional participation. But the demonstrations caused 17 wounded, five policemen and 12 protesters, and several arrests. The dictatorship of Primo de Rivera banned the celebration. During the Second Spanish Republic (1931–1939), the Generalitat de Catalunya (the autonomous government of Catalonia) institutionalized the celebration.\n\nIt was suppressed by Francoist Spain in 1939, and relegated to the family and private sphere, but continued to be celebrated clandestinely. The monument of Rafael Casanova was removed. Since 1940 the National Front of Catalonia took advantage of the day to carry out some propaganda actions: distribution of anti-fascist leaflets, clandestine hanging of senyeres, etc. It was celebrated publicly for the first time again on 11 September 1976, followed by a huge demonstration demanding Catalan autonomy in Barcelona the next year, on 11 September 1977, in which the Casanova's statue was repositioned in its place, and the celebration was reinstated officially in 1980 by the Generalitat de Catalunya, upon its restoration after the Francoist State, becoming the first law approved by the restored Parliament of Catalonia.\n\nNationalist organizations, political parties and institutions traditionally lay floral offerings at monuments of those who led the defence of the city such as Rafael Casanova and General Moragues, marking their stand against the king Philip V of Spain. Typically, Catalan nationalists organize demonstrations and meet at the Fossar de les Moreres in Barcelona, where they pay homage to the defenders of city who died during the siege and were buried there. Throughout the day, there are patriotic demonstrations and cultural events in many Catalan villages and many citizens wave senyeres and estelades. The event has become more explicitly political and particularly focused on independence rallies in the 2010s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9104786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9104786", "title": "Neil Libbey", "text": "Neil Libbey\n\nNeil F. Libbey is an author and historian in Sydney, Nova Scotia, a community in the Cape Breton Regional Municipality.\n\nBorn in Hollywood, California and raised in San Dimas he moved to Cape Breton in 1985.\n\nLibbey is a graduate of the University College of Cape Breton and the University of Maine and is a teacher by trade.\n\nLibbey authored \"Portside: An Early History of the Royal Cape Breton Yacht Club\" in 2003 and contributed articles to \"The Encyclopedia of Yacht Designers\" published in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "43222836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43222836", "title": "Noorpur Stupas", "text": "Noorpur Stupas\n\nNoorpur Stupas is an archaeological site in Gilgit, Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "25074011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25074011", "title": "Peter Christopher (author)", "text": "Peter Christopher (author)\n\nPeter Christopher (born 1948, Cyprus) is an Australian author and photographer who writes about shipwrecks and riverboats.\nHe is also a Director of the not for profit organisation, Clipper Ship \"City of Adelaide\" Ltd (CSCOAL), set up to save the 1864 clipper ship, \"City of Adelaide\".\n\nPeter is the author of seven books,co-author of another and co-editor of another. Australia’s large collection of original operating paddle steamers has been the subject of three decades of research by Peter, and hence the subject of two of his seven books.\n\nSince 1967, Peter has been an active scuba diver and volunteer maritime archaeologist who has visited and documented wrecks in South Australia (SA) in particular, but also around Australia. Peter's contribution to maritime archaeology was recognised by an Award presented to him by the Australian Government in 1982 and by the award of a life membership by the Society for Underwater Historical Research in 2000.\n\nIn 1973, Peter was a member of the South Australian Government's inquiry into scuba diving deaths in fresh water sink-holes and underwater caves in the south east of SA. The Report of the Committee \"appointed to investigate safety precautions for Scuba Divers in Fresh Water Sink Holes and Underwater Caves\" which was presented to the Government in January 1974 essentially recommended non-legislative response to the problem. The subsequent voluntary program of regulation via diver training and certification has been carried out by the Cave Divers Association of Australia. The success of the program is evident with nearly four decades of low fatality cave diving following the implementation of the Report's recommendations. \n\nPeter is not a full-time author; he worked as a senior Trade Union official, with his role until mid June 2015 being the Chief Industrial Officer of the Public Service Association of South Australia. He retired to focus on a volunteer role developing a seaport village for the historic 1864 clipper ship \"City of Adelaide' in Port Adelaide's inner harbour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4256108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4256108", "title": "Richard Leigh (author)", "text": "Richard Leigh (author)\n\nRichard Harris Leigh (16 August 1943 – 21 November 2007) was a novelist and short story writer born in New Jersey, United States to a British father and an American mother, who spent most of his life in the UK. Leigh earned a BA from Tufts University, a master's degree from the University of Chicago, and a Ph.D. from the State University of New York at Stony Brook.\n\nLeigh met his frequent co-author Michael Baigent while living in the United Kingdom in the 1970s. They subsequently struck a friendship with the writer and British television scriptwriter Henry Lincoln in 1975 and between them developed a conspiracy theory involving the Knights Templar and the alleged mystery of Rennes-le-Château, proposing the existence of a secret that Jesus had not died on the Cross, but had married Mary Magdalene and fathered descendants who continued to exert an influence on European history. This hypothesis was later put forward in their 1982 book, \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\".\n\n\"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\" achieved enormous commercial success and has been described as \"one of the most controversial books of the 1980s\". It popularised the idea that the true object of the quest for the Holy Grail was to find secret descendants of Jesus and Mary Magdalene. This bloodline is stated to have later married into a Frankish royal dynasty, the Merovingians, and to be championed and protected by a secret society known as the Priory of Sion. These notions were later used as a basis for Dan Brown's international best-selling novel \"The Da Vinci Code\".\n\nThe day after publication, the authors had a public clash on BBC television with the Bishop of Birmingham and Marina Warner. The book rapidly climbed the best-seller charts, and the authors published a sequel, \"The Messianic Legacy\", in 1986.\n\nThe book has been described as \"a work thoroughly debunked by scholars and critics alike\". Arthurian scholar Richard Barber has commented, \"It would take a book as long as the original to refute and dissect \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\" point by point: it is essentially a text which proceeds by innuendo, not by refutable scholarly debate\".\n\nIn 1991 Leigh published \"The Dead Sea Scrolls Deception\", co-authored with Baigent. The book follows the controversial theories of Robert Eisenman regarding the Dead Sea Scrolls.\n\nTwo books of Leigh's fictional works have been published: \"Erceldoune & Other Stories\" (2006), and \"Grey Magic\" (2007).\n\nSome of the ideas presented in Baigent's earlier book \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\", were incorporated in the best-selling American novel \"The Da Vinci Code\", by Dan Brown.\n\nIn March 2006, Baigent and Leigh filed suit in a British court against Brown's publisher, Random House, claiming copyright infringement. On 7 April 2006 High Court judge Peter Smith rejected the claim. On 28 March 2007, Baigent and Leigh lost their appeal, and were faced with legal bills of about £3m.\n\nLeigh died on 21 November 2007 in London from causes related to a heart condition.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38686971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38686971", "title": "Robert Meyer", "text": "Robert Meyer\n\nRobert Meyer (born October 2, 1945 in Oslo, Norway) is a Norwegian art photographer, professor, photo historian, collector, writer and publicist. He is the son of journalist Robert Castberg Meyer and homemaker Edel Nielsen; and brother of the industrial designer Terje Meyer.\n\nIn 1963 he became a professional photographer in the Norwegian National Criminal Investigation Service (\"Kripos\") in Oslo, and as a photojournalist in the newspaper Vårt Land, while freelancing for the weekly press. The year after he moved to Stockholm, where he studied photography under the artist Christer Strömholm at Fotoskolan at the University of Stockholm. Subsequently, he worked five years as a freelancer in Stockholm, Oslo and Buenos Aires. Meyer returned to Oslo in 1967, and from 1971 to 1978 he worked as a photojournalist and editorial member for the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation's (NRK) magazine. In 1976 he founded the publishing company Ikaros, which produced the Norwegian Photohistorical Journal, a series of books on photography and historically important facsimile editions. The year after he retired his professional photography career to be able to devote his time to research national and international photography history. From 1976 to 1980, he served as a member of Taylor & Francis' consultative council for the history of photography. Later, he worked seven years as an art critic for Norway's leading newspaper, Aftenposten.\n\nMeyer became the first professor of photography in Norway in 1990 at the National College of Art in Bergen, where he founded the Institute of Photography. In 1998, he returned to Oslo, starting a private college for photography. He currently resides in Oslo.\n\nIn 1974, Meyer was the initiator of \"Forbundet Frie Fotografer\" (The Association of Independent Photographers). Two years later he was also involved in establishing Norsk Fotohistorisk Forening (the Norwegian Photohistorical Society), and in 1979 he became the first chairman of the board of Fotogalleriet (the Norwegian photo gallery Foundation).\n\nHis first student exhibition was shown in Stockholm in 1964, although his debut as a photo artist was the exhibition \"Lys\" (\"Light\") at Fotogalleriet (the National College of Art and Design) in 1970. Besides numerous solo and group exhibitions in Norway, Meyer also participated in the photography biennale in Gdansk, Poland (1971), and presented a solo exhibition at the Brandts Museum of Photographic Art (Museet for Fotokunst) in Odense, Denmark.\n\nMeyer presented works at two exhibitions in 2002 and 2003 at the Preus Museum (the National Museum of Photography) in Norway.\n\nIn the autumn of 2009, Meyer's retrospective exhibition \"Presence - 50 Years of Photography,\" which encompassed images taken during 50 years, was shown at the Nesodden Kunstforening (Art Society).\n\nIn 2010 Meyer contributed a huge photographic exhibition to the opening of \"Rockheim\", the new national museum of rock music in Trondheim. His exhibition \"Icons of the 60's\" was made up of historical pictures in monumental sizes, mostly portraits of the musicians he had met during the 1960s, including John Lennon, Yoko Ono, The Rolling Stones, Bob Dylan, Rory Gallagher, Roy Orbison, Julie Felix and Norwegian artists like Terje Rypdal and Wenche Myhre.\n\nIn addition to his own exhibitions, Meyer has been a curator for a number of galleries and museums.\n\n\nIn 2005, Meyer presented a selection of Edvard Munchs photographs as a part of the large exhibition of Edvard Munchs works: Munch 1863-1944, in Complesso del Vittoriano, Rome, Italy, and in connection with the 150 years celebration of Munch he prepared an exhibition of Munch’s photograph which is touring a selection of 15 local art associations all over Norway 2013 - 2015.\n\nMeyer has received wide recognition for his construction of The Robert Meyer Collection (RMC), the largest private Norwegian photo historic art collection, which he later placed in The National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design in Oslo. It includes about 10,000 images, with emphasis on the Norwegian and Nordic photography and a specialized library. Parts of the collection was presented in the exhibition The Forgotten Tradition (Den glemte tradisjonen) of Oslo Fine Art Society in 1989, and were later presented in several other cities in Norway. The Collection as such was presented as an exhibition “The Robert Meyer Collection”, at The National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design in 2005-2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "9460956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9460956", "title": "Ross Fitzgerald", "text": "Ross Fitzgerald\n\nRoss Andrew Fitzgerald (born in 1944) is an Australian academic, historian, novelist, secularist, and political commentator. Fitzgerald is an Emeritus Professor in History and Politics at Griffith University. He has published forty books, including three histories of Queensland, two biographies, works about Labor Party politics of the 1950s, with other books relating to philosophy, alcohol and Australian Rules football, as well as eight works of fiction, including six political/sexual satires about his corpulent anti-hero Professor Dr Grafton Everest.\n\nIn 2018 Ross Fitzgerald published the Grafton Everest sexual/political satire 'So Far, So Good : An entertainment', co-authored with Antony Funnell and published by Hybrid in Melbourne.\n\nFitzgerald is an alcoholic who admitted in his memoir, \"My name is Ross: an alcoholic's journey\", to commencing excessive alcohol between the ages of 15 and 24 years, when he consumed his last drink. He has now been sober for years.\n\nAt the 2016 federal election Fitzgerald was a candidate for the Australian Senate representing the state of New South Wales, standing on the Australian Sex Party platform.\n\nBorn in Melbourne, Victoria on Christmas Day 1944, Fitzgerald was awarded his PhD in political theory from the University of New South Wales. His academic career has included appointments at Griffith University as a Lecturer between 1977 and 1986, a Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor between 1987 and 1996, and a Personal Chair between 1996 and 2002. In 2002 Fitzgerald was appointed as Professor in History and Politics.\n\nDuring his time as an Australian Research Council Senior Research Fellow from 1992 to 1996, as well as writing two political biographies Professor Fitzgerald co-produced two ABCTV documentaries, also about E.G. (“Red Ted”) Theodore and Australia’s only member of parliament, Fred Paterson.\n\nFitzgerald writes regular columns and book reviews for \"The Weekend Australian\", the \"Sydney Morning Herald\", \"The Age\" and \"The Canberra Times\". He also appears on ABC Radio, ABC Television, the Alan Jones Show, SkyNews, and Channel 7 and is a regular guest speaker at The Sydney Institute.\n\nIn addition to his academic and political commentary appointments, Fitzgerald has served as the Chair of Centenary of Federation Queensland between 1999 and 2002, a Judge of the Prime Minister's Literary Award for Non Fiction and Australian History, a member of the New South Wales Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT) from 2012 to 2016, a member of the Australian Government's Expert Advisory Group on Drugs and Alcohol between 2000 and 2013, a member of the New South Wales Heritage Council between 2003 and 2009, a member of the New South Wales Parole Board between 2002 and 2012, a member of Administrative Decisions Tribunal of New South Wales between 2002 and 2012, and a member of the Queensland Parole Board between 1997 and 2002.\n\nFitzgerald is a life member of the Australian Republic Movement.\n\nIn 2014 Fitzgerald as appointed a Member in the Order of Australia (AM) for significant service to education in the field of politics and history as an academic, and to community and public health organisations. His 2015 book, \"Going out backwards: a Grafton Everest adventure\" was shortlisted for the 2017 Russell Prize for Humour Writing.\n\nFitzgerald has published 40 books, including the following titles:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50058688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50058688", "title": "Sandžak faction", "text": "Sandžak faction\n\nThe Sandžak faction or Sandžak lobby (Sandžački lobi), known in Serbo-Croatian as Sandžaklije, was one of the two main divisions of the Bosnian government and the ruling Party of Democratic Action () during the Bosnian War (1992–95; see Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina). It was made up of military hardliners and settlers (migrants) from Sandžak, a region divided between SR Serbia and SR Montenegro (see Bosniaks of Serbia and Bosniaks of Montenegro). Commander Sefer Halilović and politician Ejup Ganić belonged to the faction.\n\nAccording to Sarajevan writer Željko Vuković, Sandžak immigrants controlled most of the municipal, political and military power during the war. On the eve of the war, some 160,000 people of Sandžak origin lived in Sarajevo. There is a view that Sandžak immigrants were prior to the war second-class citizens, who during the war climbed the social ladder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1971874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1971874", "title": "Self-referencing doomsday argument rebuttal", "text": "Self-referencing doomsday argument rebuttal\n\nSelf-referencing doomsday argument rebuttals attempt to refute the Doomsday argument (that there is a credible link between the brevity of the human race's existence and its expected extinction) by applying the same reasoning to the lifetime of the Doomsday argument (DA) itself.\n\nThe first researchers to write about this were P. T. Landsberg and J. N. Dewynne in 1997; they applied belief in the DA to itself, and claimed that a paradox results.\n\nIf the DA's lifetime is governed by the principle of indifference and the Copernican principle then based on the length of its current existence, and assuming that it is randomly drawn from a reference class of probabilistic speculations it is 95% certain that it will be refuted before the year 2500.\n\nIf the DA is not itself subject to these principles then its assumption that the human race's survival-time can be modeled using them appears to be a paradox (to Lansberg & Dewynne).\n\nAlternatively, if the DA is subject to these presumptions, then as it is expected to expire (be refuted) earlier that its own prediction for the likely survival time of humanity there is a second paradox: The predictions of a theory concerning events to occur after it has been refuted (such as human extinction) are not logically meaningful. Conversely, if the DA survives until the end of human civilization (in the year 5000, say) then it will have dramatically beaten the odds against the expectations of the Copernican principle. This can create a paradox for an argument based on probability, as shown if future scenarios are broken into three groups:\n\nThe \"quick extinction\" in possibility 1 is considered fairly likely in those Doomsday arguments using the number of births as a reference class, but comparing like-for-like we should compare the length of time the DA survives before refutation with the length of \"time\" the human race survives before extinction. Therefore, J. Richard Gott's (temporal) DA is used to calculate the probabilities of the three scenarios above:\n\n\nIf the Doomsday Argument can apply to itself it can be simultaneously right (as a probabilistic argument) and probably wrong (as a prediction).\n\nTherefore, Landsberg and Dewynne argue that it is more likely that the Doomsday argument is wrong (even if its logic is correct) than that the human race will become extinct in 9,000 years (which the DA calculates at around 95% likely). The interesting paradox is that the \"Doomsday argument is probably wrong even assuming it to be completely right\" (in its 95% estimate).\n\nIn 2001 Bradley Monton and Sherrilyn Roush extended this by arguing that Gott's DA \"inevitably\" refutes itself.\n\nThis \"meta\"-DA application of the concept to the DA itself, requires some assumptions that are not universally accepted:\n\n\n A probable paradox reply in \"Nature\" from 23 October 1997 by Lansberg and Dewynne, to Gott's claim that their earlier use of his formula would also apply to the human survival time. (The reply also details the logic of the rebuttal.)\n"}
{"id": "2816470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2816470", "title": "Terrorism in Pakistan", "text": "Terrorism in Pakistan\n\nTerrorism in Pakistan has become a major and highly destructive phenomenon in recent years. The annual death toll from terrorist attacks has risen from 164 in 2003 to 3318 in 2009, with a total of 35,000 Pakistanis killed between 11 September 2001 and May 2011. According to the government of Pakistan, the direct and indirect economic costs of terrorism from 2000–2010 total $68 billion. President Asif Ali Zardari, along with former President ex-Pakistan Army head Pervez Musharraf, have admitted that terrorist outfits were \"deliberately created and nurtured\" by past governments \"as a policy to achieve some short-term tactical objectives\" The trend began with Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq's controversial \"Islamization\" policies of the 1980s, under which conflicts were started against Soviet involvement in Afghanistan. Zia's tenure as president saw Pakistan's involvement in the Soviet–Afghan War, which led to a greater influx of ideologically driven Muslims (mujahideen) to the tribal areas and increased availability of guns such as the AK-47 and drugs from the Golden Crescent.\n\nThe state and its Inter-Services Intelligence, in alliance with the CIA and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, encouraged the \"mujahideen\" to fight a proxy war against Soviet forces present in Afghanistan. Most of the mujahideen were never disarmed after the war ended in Afghanistan. \n\nFrom the summer of 2007 until late 2009, more than 1,500 people were killed in suicide and other attacks on civilians for reasons attributed to a number of causes – sectarian violence between Sunni and Shia Muslims; easy availability of guns and explosives; the existence of a \"Kalashnikov culture\"; an influx of ideologically driven Muslims based in or near Pakistan, who originated from various nations around the world and the subsequent war against the pro-Soviet Afghans in the 1980s which blew back into Pakistan; the presence of Islamist insurgent groups and forces such as the Taliban and Lashkar-e-Taiba. Pakistan is the 10th most dangerous country by criminality index.\n\nTerrorism in Pakistan originated with supporting the Soviet–Afghan War, and the subsequent civil war that continued for at least a decade. The conflict brought numerous fighters from all over the world to South Asia in the name of jihad. The mujahideen fighters were trained by Pakistan's military, American CIA and other western intelligence agencies who carried out insurgent activities inside Afghanistan well after the war officially ended.\nFormer Pakistan's army chief, Gen Raheel shareef accused longtime regional rival India, ill-focused on Pakistan, of seeking to undermine his country's $46 billion Gawader project to build an economic corridor to transport goods from China's western regions through Pakistan. Though, it is not uncommon for Pakistan and India to accuse one another on all troublesome issues. \nImposition of martial law in 1958, Pakistan's political situation suddenly changed and thereafter saw dictatorship type behaviour at different levels appearing in the civil service, the army and political forces or \"Zamindars\" (landlords created by the British) who claimed power, probably because the British originally did not consider Pakistan an independent state, yet did not want to intervene; this trend continued into the 21st century, when finally, the US persuaded General Pervez Musharraf to hold elections. Other causes, such as political rivalry and business disputes, also took their toll. It was estimated in 2005 that more than 4,000 people had died in Pakistan in the preceding 25 years due to sectarian strife.\n\nIn 2004, the Pakistani army launched a pursuit of Al-Qaeda members in the mountainous area of Waziristan on the Afghan border, although sceptics question the sincerity of this pursuit. Clashes there erupted into a low-level conflict with Islamic militants and local tribesmen, sparking the Waziristan War. A short-lived truce known as the Waziristan accord was brokered in September 2006, This truce was broken by the Taliban. They misinterpreted the conditions of the truce that led to the annoyance of Pakistani government and armed forces that launched a military operation known as operation \"Raha-e-Rast\" against the Taliban in order to clear the area of Taliban.\n\nIn 2012, the Pakistani leadership sat down to sort out solutions for dealing with the menace of terrorism and in 2013, political parties unanimously reached a resolution on Monday 9, September 2013, at the All Parties Conference (APC), stating that negotiation with the militants should be pursued as their first option to counter terrorism.\n\nWith the terrorists attaks continuing in late 2013 the political leadership in Pakistan initiated a military operation against terrorists named Operation Zarb-e-Azb; a joint military offensive against various militant groups, including the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, Jundallah, al-Qaeda, the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and the Haqqani network. The operation was launched by the Pakistan Armed Forces on 15 June 2014 in North Waziristan (part of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas along the Afghan border) as a renewed effort against militancy in the wake of the 8 June attack on Jinnah International Airport in Karachi, for which the TTP and the IMU claimed responsibility.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36745639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36745639", "title": "The Workers and Punks University", "text": "The Workers and Punks University\n\nThe Workers and Punks University in Ljubljana, capital of Slovenia, is an educational project that since 1998 each year from November to May on a topic selected by the WPU board runs a series of lectures based on social theories critical towards neoliberalism, including World-systems theory, applying selected, but not all, Marxian concepts to understand Slovenia as peripheral country, such as the theoretical work of Antonio Negri, Andre Gunder Frank, with participation from notable international academics, including American geographer David Harvey from City University of New York and philosopher Peter Hudis from Oakton Community College, British economist Michael Roberts, economist Joachim Becker from Institute for International Economics and Development Department at the Vienna University of Economics, Dutch economist Angela Wigger from Radboud University Nijmegen.\n\nThe topics by years were:\n"}
{"id": "7759225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7759225", "title": "Theophilus Evans", "text": "Theophilus Evans\n\nTheophilus Evans (February 1693 – 11 September 1767) was a Welsh clergyman and historian.\n\nEvans' father was from Pen-y-wenallt and he was christened in the church in Llandygwydd in Cardiganshire in 1693.\n\nEvans served curacies in Brecknockshire and incumbencies in both counties. He is best known for his work \"Drych y Prif Oesoedd\" (Mirror of the Early Centuries) (1716; revised ed. 1740) where with some literary talent but with an absence of critical method (mixing history with legend) he endeavours to justify the independent origins of British Christianity. Evans was supported by Sackville Gwynne, the squire of Glanbrân. In 1727, Evans became the private chaplain of Marmaduke Gwynne, Sackville's heir, but they eventually parted because of Gwynne's support for Howell Harris and the Methodist cause.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "147616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147616", "title": "William Harrison (priest)", "text": "William Harrison (priest)\n\nWilliam Harrison (18 April 1534 – 24 April 1593) was an English clergyman, whose \"Description of England\" was produced as part of the publishing venture of a group of London stationers who produced Raphael Holinshed's \"Chronicles\" (1577 and 1587). His contribution to Holinshed's work drew heavily on the earlier work of John Leland.\n\nWilliam Harrison was born in London, in the parish of St. Thomas the Apostle, to John and Anne Harrison. As a boy, Harrison attended St Paul's School and the Westminster School of Alexander Nowell. Raised in Protestant circles, Harrison entered Christ Church, Oxford and in 1560 was awarded his bachelor's degree. During the reign of Queen Mary I of England, Christ Church became a centre of Catholic support, and Harrison converted to Catholicism. Harrison claimed that he returned to Protestant belief before Mary's death in 1558 after hearing the words of Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer, three Protestant martyrs burned at the stake in Oxford.\n\nOn 15 February 1559, prior to the award of his bachelor's degree at Oxford, Harrison was instituted as the rector of Radwinter in Essex, by the appointment of Lord Cobham, who owned the right, and to whom he was also household chaplain. The living brought with it an income of £40 a year. Despite being well known to posterity for his description of England, at this time he had only travelled within a small compass in the south of England.\n\nHarrison married Marion Isebrand, the daughter of Flemish immigrants. Continuing his theological studies at Cambridge, Harrison took the degree of Bachelor of Divinity in 1571. In the same year he was instituted vicar of Wimbish in Essex. Harrison also held positions at another two London parishes. Near the end of his life, Harrison received an appointment as a canon at St. George's Chapel at Windsor. Harrison was buried at Windsor following his death in 1593.\n\nHarrison is best known for his \"Description of England\", first published in 1577 as part of \"Holinshed's Chronicles\", and reissued in revised form in 1587. This work enumerated England's geographic, economic, social, religious and political features and represents an important source for historians interested in life in Elizabethan England. He gathered his facts from books, letters, maps, the notes of John Leland, and conversations with antiquaries and local historians like his friends John Stow and William Camden. He also used his own observation, experience and wit, and wrote in a conversational tone without pedantry, which has made the work a classic. The result is a compendium of Elizabethan England during the youth of William Shakespeare. \"No work of the time contains so vivid and picturesque a sketch,\" was the assessment of \"The Cambridge History of English and American Literature\".\n\nHarrison also wrote a number of unpublished manuscripts, including \"The Great English Chronologie\". This work traced fortunes of the Christian church in history, stretching from creation to his own time. In the \"Chronologie\", Harrison revealed his sympathy with the Calvinist perspective of those seeking to reform the Church of England. At the same time, Harrison also indicated his distrust of the political intentions of England's Puritans and his ultimate loyalty to England's ecclesiastical authorities.\n\n"}
