{"id": "5260416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5260416", "title": "1989 riots in Argentina", "text": "1989 riots in Argentina\n\nThe 1989 riots were a series of riots and related episodes of looting in stores and supermarkets in Argentina, during the last part of the presidency of Raúl Alfonsin, between May and June 1989. The riots were caused by the rampant hyperinflation and food shortage, and were associated with legal protests and demonstrations.\n\nThe first riots started in Rosario, the third-largest city in the country, when people demanded supermarkets to give away food; they quickly spread to other cities, specially in Greater Buenos Aires. The national government established a state of emergency. More than 40 people were arrested, and there were 14 dead (20 according to unofficial reports). Eventually President Alfonsín resigned, and president elect Carlos Menem took office six months in advance, in July.\nIn August 1988 the Alfonsín government launched a new economic plan, called \"Plan Primavera\", intended to contain inflation. It included price controls, negotiated with 53 leading companies, and exchange rate controls, the freezing of state workers' wages, and negotiations with the labour unions. The plan soon proved a failure. Interest rates rose uncontrollably, and the Central Bank's foreign currency reserves were depleted, as it sold U.S. dollars to preserve the value of the Argentine austral. The economic establishment withdrew deposits from the banks, withheld the dollars brought in by exports, and purposefully delayed the paying of taxes.\nDuring May 1989, the exchange rate (while fixed in theory) rose from 80 to 200 australes to the dollar. In Rosario, the inflation rate of May reached 96.5%. There was a shortage of basic products in supermarkets and stores, and their price tags were updated several times in the same day.\n\nThe results of the general elections held on 14 May 1989 were overwhelmingly favourable to the Justicialist Party. The volatile situation prompted talks about the possibility of anticipating the assumption of the president elect. In Rosario, mayor Horacio Usandizaga resigned, fulfilling a promise that he would leave office if Menem got elected.\n\nWednesday, 24 May was a bank holiday. The first isolated riots erupted in Rosario and Córdoba. On 28 May the president announced an emergency economic plan. That night the riots and episodes of looting became generalized in Rosario, especially in the southern neighbourhoods, where most of the larger supermarkets were concentrated at the time, and the next day they spread to the nearby industrial corridor and to other cities, accompanied in certain cases by road blockades and \"cacerolazos\".\nThe rioters broke into supermarkets, food stores and smaller businesses, in groups of varying size (as small as 20 people and as large as 1,000). In most cases they were young, and included a significant proportion of women and children, who doubled as willing human shields against the police. Though most were motivated by hunger and took only food, many also stole cash registers, furniture, refrigerators, etc. Common robbers as well as ostensibly middle-class people could be found among the crowd, as well as people who loaded stolen merchandise on cars and other motor vehicles. The violence was directed at the businesses, not the people, although there were some isolated incidents of owners being hurt or hurting others when trying to defend their shops, and attacks on some police stations.\nPolice action was rather passive during the first two days, which contributed to the generalization of the riots. Whether they were overwhelmed by its massive dimensions is a matter of discussion; some hypotheses point to orders from a faction of the provincial government. Some neighbours claimed that the police was merely \"guarding\" the robbers, as the security forces only shot some rounds into the air and few arrests were made.\n\nThis changed on 29 May, when the president declared a state of emergency for 30 days. The city was militarized and divided into three operational areas. School classes were suspended, banks were closed, public transportation was shut down, and a curfew was imposed.\n\nBy the beginning of June the riots ceased, as the situation was controlled by the security forces and the municipal and national governments began to deliver food assistance. The national government also ordered the creation of hundreds of soup kitchens.\nThe beginning of 1990 saw a new, albeit much smaller wave of riots, mainly February and March, in Rosario and Greater Buenos Aires. The economic crisis had not abated, and many businesses had resumed operating with physical barriers. The riots were contained quickly, again with delivery of food assistance to the poorer neighbourhoods.\n"}
{"id": "23403807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23403807", "title": "Adjustment clause", "text": "Adjustment clause\n\nIn insurance, an adjustment clause in a contract specifies how the amount of a claim (particularly a claim against an insurance company) will be determined for the purposes of a settlement, giving consideration to objections made by the debtor or insurance company, as well as the allegations of the claimant in support of his claim.\n\nFor example:\n\nAdjustment of claims is not confined to claims against insurance companies. An allowance made by a creditor, particularly a storekeeper, in response to a complaint by the debtor respecting the accuracy of the account or other claim, or a reduction in the claim or account made to induce a prompt payment, is in a proper sense an adjustment.\n"}
{"id": "25131349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25131349", "title": "Amendment to allege use", "text": "Amendment to allege use\n\nAmendment to allege use or AAU is a sworn statement signed by an entity wishing to register a trademark or service mark attesting to use of the mark in commerce. With the Amendment to Allege Use, the owner must submit one product specimen that makes commercial use of the mark for each class of goods or services included in the application.\n"}
{"id": "9026965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9026965", "title": "Armistice of Salonica", "text": "Armistice of Salonica\n\nThe Armistice of Salonica (also known as the Armistice of Thessalonica) was signed on 29 September 1918 between Bulgaria and the Allied Powers in Thessaloniki. The convention followed after a request by the Bulgarian government on 24 September asking for a ceasefire. The armistice effectively ended Bulgaria's participation in World War I on the side of the Central Powers and came into effect on the Bulgarian front at noon on 30 September. The armistice regulated the demobilization and disarmament of the Bulgarian armed forces.\n\nThe signatories were, for the Allies, the French General Louis Franchet d'Espérey, commander of the Allied Army of the Orient, and a commission appointed by the Bulgarian government, composed of General Ivan Lukov (member of the Bulgarian Army HQ), Andrey Lyapchev (cabinet member) and Simeon Radev (diplomat).\n\nThe terms of the armistice called for the immediate demobilization of all Bulgarian military activities. It ordered the evacuation of Bulgarian-occupied Greek and Serbian territories, placed limits and restrictions to the size of Bulgaria's military employment and required Bulgaria to return military equipment that had been taken from the Greek Fourth Army Corps during the Bulgarian occupation of Eastern Macedonia in 1916. German and Austrian-Hungarian troops had to leave Bulgaria within 4 weeks. Bulgaria and especially Sofia were not to be occupied, but the Allies had the right to temporarily occupy some strategic points and to transfer troops over Bulgarian territory. \n\nAccording to article five of the Armistice, about 150 000 Bulgarian soldiers that had been situated to the west of the Skopje meridian were to be delivered to the Entente as hostages.\n\nThe French would send troops to Romania and the British and Greeks to European Turkey, at that moment still at war with the Allies. \n\nThe document would remain in effect until a final general peace treaty (the Treaty of Neuilly-sur-Seine, in November 1919) was concluded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38867", "title": "Bill of Rights 1689", "text": "Bill of Rights 1689\n\nThe Bill of Rights, also known as the English Bill of Rights, is an Act of the Parliament of England that sets out certain basic civil rights and clarifies who would be next to inherit the Crown. It received the Royal Assent on 16 December 1689 and is a restatement in statutory form of the Declaration of Right presented by the Convention Parliament to William III and Mary II in February 1689, inviting them to become joint sovereigns of England. The Bill of Rights lays down limits on the powers of the monarch and sets out the rights of Parliament, including the requirement for regular parliaments, free elections, and freedom of speech in Parliament. It sets out certain rights of individuals including the prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment and reestablished the right of Protestants to have arms for their defence within the rule of law. Furthermore, the Bill of Rights described and condemned several misdeeds of James II of England.\n\nThese ideas reflected those of the political thinker John Locke and they quickly became popular in England. It also sets out – or, in the view of its drafters, restates – certain constitutional requirements of the Crown to seek the consent of the people, as represented in Parliament.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Bill of Rights is further accompanied by Magna Carta, the Petition of Right, the Habeas Corpus Act 1679 and the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949 as some of the basic documents of the uncodified British constitution. A separate but similar document, the Claim of Right Act 1689, applies in Scotland. The Bill of Rights 1689 was one of the inspirations for the United States Bill of Rights.\n\nAlong with the Act of Settlement 1701, the Bill of Rights is still in effect in all Commonwealth realms. Following the Perth Agreement in 2011, legislation amending both of them came into effect across the Commonwealth realms on 26 March 2015.\n\nDuring the 17th century, there was renewed interest in Magna Carta. The Parliament of England passed the Petition of Right in 1628 which established certain liberties for subjects. The English Civil War (1642–1651) was fought between the King and an oligarchic but elected Parliament, during which the idea of a political party took form with groups debating rights to political representation during the Putney Debates of 1647. Subsequently, the Protectorate (1653–1659) and the English Restoration (1660) restored more autocratic rule although Parliament passed the Habeas Corpus Act in 1679, which strengthened the convention that forbade detention lacking sufficient cause or evidence.\n\nObjecting to the policies of King James II of England (James VII of Scotland and James II of Ireland), a group of English Parliamentarians invited the Dutch stadtholder William III of Orange-Nassau (William of Orange) to overthrow the King. William's successful invasion with a Dutch fleet and army led to James fleeing to France. In December 1688, William took over the provisional government by appointment of the peers of the realm, as was the legal right of the latter in circumstances when the King was incapacitated, and summoned an assembly of certain members of parliament. This assembly called for an English Convention Parliament to be elected, which convened on 22 January 1689.\n\nThe proposal to draw up a statement of rights and liberties and James's violation of them was first made on 29 January 1689 in the House of Commons, with members arguing that the House \"cannot answer it to the nation or Prince of Orange till we declare what are the rights invaded\" and that William \"cannot take it ill if we make conditions to secure ourselves for the future\" in order to \"do justice to those who sent us hither\". On 2 February a committee specially convened reported to the Commons 23 Heads of Grievances, which the Commons approved and added some of their own. However, on 4 February the Commons decided to instruct the committee to differentiate between \"such of the general heads, as are introductory of new laws, from those that are declaratory of ancient rights\". On 7 February the Commons approved this revised Declaration of Right, and on 8 February instructed the committee to put into a single text the Declaration (with the heads which were \"introductory of new laws\" removed), the resolution of 28 January and the Lords' proposal for a revised oath of allegiance. It passed the Commons without division.\n\nOn 13 February the clerk of the House of Lords read the Declaration of Right, and the Marquess of Halifax, in the name of all the estates of the realm, asked William and Mary to accept the throne. William replied for his wife and himself: \"We thankfully accept what you have offered us\". They then went in procession to the great gate at Whitehall. The Garter King at Arms proclaimed them King and Queen of England, France, and Ireland, whereupon they adjourned to the Chapel Royal, with the Bishop of London preaching the sermon. They were crowned on 11 April, swearing an oath to uphold the laws made by Parliament. The Coronation Oath Act 1688 had provided a new coronation oath, whereby the monarchs were to \"solemnly promise and swear to govern the people of this kingdom of England, and the dominions thereunto belonging, according to the statutes in parliament agreed on, and the laws and customs of the same\". They were also to maintain the laws of God, the true profession of the Gospel, and the Protestant Reformed faith established by law. This replaced an oath which had deferred more to the monarch. The previous oath required the monarch to rule based on \"the laws and customs ... granted by the Kings of England\".\n\nThe Declaration of Right was enacted in an Act of Parliament, the Bill of Rights 1689, which received the Royal Assent in December 1689. The Act asserted \"certain ancient rights and liberties\" by declaring that:\n\nThe Act declared James' flight from England following the Glorious Revolution to be an abdication of the throne. It listed twelve of James's policies by which James designed to \"endeavour to subvert and extirpate the protestant religion, and the laws and liberties of this kingdom\". These were:\n\nIn a prelude to the Act of Settlement to come twelve years later, the Bill of Rights barred Roman Catholics from the throne of England as \"it hath been found by experience that it is inconsistent with the safety and welfare of this Protestant kingdom to be governed by a papist prince\"; thus William III and Mary II were named as the successors of James II and that the throne would pass from them first to Mary's heirs, then to her sister, Princess Anne of Denmark and her heirs (and, thereafter, to any heirs of William by a later marriage).\n\nThe Bill of Rights is commonly dated in legal contexts to 1688. This convention arises from the legal fiction (prior to the passage of the Acts of Parliament (Commencement) Act 1793) that an Act of Parliament came into force on the first day of the session in which it was passed. The Bill was therefore deemed to be effective from 13 February 1689 (New Style), or, under the Old Style calendar in use at the time, 13 February 1688. Under the Short Titles Act 1896, the Bill was given the official short title of \"The Bill of Rights\", without a calendar year suffix.\n\nThe Bill of Rights was later supplemented by the Act of Settlement 1701 (which was agreed to by the Parliament of Scotland as part of the Treaty of Union). The Act of Settlement altered the line of succession to the throne laid out in the Bill of Rights. However, both the Bill of Rights and the Claim of Right contributed a great deal to the establishment of the concept of parliamentary sovereignty and the curtailment of the powers of the monarch. Leading, ultimately, to the establishment of constitutional monarchy, while also (along with the penal laws) settling the political and religious turmoil that had convulsed Scotland, England and Ireland in the 17th century.\n\nThe Bill of Rights (1689) reinforced the Petition of Right (1628) and the Habeas Corpus Act (1679) by codifying certain rights and liberties. Described by William Blackstone as \"Fundamental Laws of England\", the rights expressed in these Acts became associated with the idea of the rights of Englishmen. The Bill of Rights directly influenced the 1776 Virginia Declaration of Rights, which in turn influenced the Declaration of Independence.\n\nAlthough not a comprehensive statement of civil and political liberties, the Bill of Rights stands as one of the landmark documents in the development of civil liberties in the United Kingdom and a model for later, more general, statements of rights; these include the United States Bill of Rights, the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. For example, as with the Bill of Rights 1689, the US Constitution prohibits excessive bail and \"cruel and unusual punishment\". Similarly, \"cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment\" is banned under Article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe Bill of Rights remains in statute and continues to be cited in legal proceedings in the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth realms, particularly Article 9 on parliamentary freedom of speech. Following the Perth Agreement in 2011, legislation amending the Bill of Rights and the Act of Settlement 1701 came into effect across the Commonwealth realms on 26 March 2015 which changed the laws of succession to the British throne.\n\nPart of the Bill of Rights remains in statute in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe Bill of Rights applies in England and Wales; it was enacted in the Kingdom of England which at the time included Wales. Scotland has its own legislation, the Claim of Right Act 1689, passed before the Act of Union between England and Scotland. There are doubts as to whether, or to what extent, the Bill of Rights applies in Northern Ireland.\n\nOn 21 July 1995 a libel case brought by Neil Hamilton (then a member of parliament) against \"The Guardian\" was stopped after Justice May ruled that the Bill of Rights' prohibition on the courts' ability to question parliamentary proceedings would prevent \"The Guardian\" from obtaining a fair hearing. Section 13 of the Defamation Act 1996, was subsequently enacted to permit MPs to waive their parliamentary privilege and thus cite their own speeches if relevant to litigation.\n\nFollowing the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum in 2016, the Bill of Rights was quoted in a court ruling on a legal challenge seeking a judicial declaration that triggering EU exit must first be authorised by an act of Parliament.\n\nThe ninth article, regarding parliamentary freedom of speech, is actively used in Australia.\n\nThe article on parliamentary freedom of speech is in active use in Canada.\n\nThe Bill of Rights was invoked in New Zealand in the 1976 case of \"Fitzgerald v Muldoon and Others\", which centred on the purporting of newly appointed Prime Minister Robert Muldoon that he would advise the Governor-General to abolish a superannuation scheme established by the New Zealand Superannuation Act, 1974, without new legislation. Muldoon felt that the dissolution would be immediate and he would later introduce a bill in parliament to retroactively make the abolition legal. This claim was challenged in court and the Chief Justice declared that Muldoon's actions were illegal as they had violated Article 1 of the Bill of Rights, which provides \"that the pretended power of dispensing with laws or the execution of laws by regal authority ... is illegal.\"\n\nThe Act was retained in the Republic of Ireland although sections were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 2007 section 2(2)(a), and Part 2 of Schedule 1. Section 2(3) of that Act repealed:\n\nTwo special designs of commemorative two pound coins were issued in the United Kingdom in 1989 to celebrate the tercentenary of the Glorious Revolution. One referred to the Bill of Rights and the other to the Claim of Right. Both depict the Royal Cypher of William and Mary and the mace of the House of Commons, one also shows a representation of the St Edward's Crown and the other the Crown of Scotland.\n\nIn May 2011, the Bill of Rights was inscribed in UNESCO's UK Memory of the World Register recognizing that:\n\nAs part of the Parliament in the Making programme, the Bill of Rights was on display at the Houses of Parliament in February 2015 and at the British Library from March through September 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52512545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52512545", "title": "Bipartisan Report", "text": "Bipartisan Report\n\nBipartisan Report is an American online news website which seemingly appeals to the left. It used to describe itself as \"The Internet's Largest newspaper.\" It was founded in Seattle, Washington by Justin Brotman, son of Jeff Brotman. The website reportedly has 15 paid writers, who publish their work under pen names for safety and privacy reasons.\n"}
{"id": "29041002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29041002", "title": "Brazilian constitutional referendum, 1993", "text": "Brazilian constitutional referendum, 1993\n\nThe 1993 Brazilian constitutional referendum was held on April 21, 1993 to determine the form of government of the country. After the re-democratization of Brazil, an article in the new Constitution determined the holding of a referendum for voters to decide if the country should have a republican or a monarchical form of Government, and if the system of Government should be that of a presidential Executive or that of parliamentary government. \n\nThe Constitution further specified that Congress, sitting in joint session, would be empowered to effect a revision of the Constitution in 1994 by a mere absolute majority, instead of the qualified majority procedure with separate votes in both Houses of Congress that is usually required for constitutional amendments; any change in the constitutional regime of Government decided during the referendum would be adopted during the said constitutional revision.\n\nFederal Law n° 8.624, signed into law by President Itamar Franco on February 4, 1993, regulated the holding of the referendum.\n\nAn overwhelming majority of voters favoured the republican regime and the presidential system, as the country had been ruled for 104 years since the Proclamation of the Republic on November 15, 1889 – apart from a brief parliamentarian experience between 1961 and 1963, which had also been defeated in a referendum. In spite of heavy campaigning on TV and radio, turnout was relatively small (74.3%), considering that voting is compulsory in the country.\n\nThe attempted resurrection of the imperial regime came from federal deputy Antônio Henrique Bittencourt da Cunha Bueno (from São Paulo's Social Democratic Party), a member of the Constituent Assembly which approved the Constitution which put an end to the military regime. A monarchist since a child, and son of Antônio Sílvio Cunha Bueno, one of SDP's founders in São Paulo, he decided to propose to his fellow deputies the hold of a referendum to give the people the possibility to choose the form of government they preferred. His main argument was that during the reign of Pedro II, Brazil had experienced a period of great stability. Surprisingly, his proposal was included in the new Constitution. Bueno managed to convince the Constituent Assembly that, since the Republic had been proclaimed in Brazil by means of a military coup d'état in 1889, without any say of the people, the Brazilian Nation should be given the chance of deciding the form of Government of their choice. Given that, when the Constitution was approved in 1988, the country was in a process of returning to democracy after a long military regime, the idea of giving the people the opportunity to decide their form of Government (either choosing the restoration of the Monarchy or opting for the Republic, an option that would give popular legitimacy to a form of Government that had been first imposed in a military coup) gained wide support in the Constituent Assembly. Also, several members of the Assembly were in favour of a parliamentary republic (the original drafts of the Constitution provided for a parliamentary system of Government within a republic, but a vote by the Assembly altered the draft so as to preserve the presidential Executive); those members of the Assembly who favored a parliamentary model and who had been defeated in the system of Government vote then supported the proposal that led to the inclusion in the Constitution of the provision summoning the referendum. The supporters of a parliamentary republic, who desired only a referendum on the system of Government (parliamentary or presidential) voted in favour of Bueno's proposal for a question also dealing with the form of Government (monarchy or republic), because they reckoned that all monarchists would also vote for a parliamentary model in the system of government question.\n\nOn May 1992, Bueno launched the \"Parliamentary Monarchist Movement\" alongside Pedro Gastão of Orléans-Braganza, then head of the Petrópolis branch of the Brazilian Imperial Family and one of the two claimants to the defunct Brazilian throne. According to him, only \"petistas\" were able to rival the monarchist militancy. On February 4, 1993, President Itamar Franco signed into law the bill N° 8.624, which regulated the holding of the referendum.\n\nAccording to some polling institutes, the monarchist campaign was able to obtain the support of 22% of the voters in 1992. Concerned about this, the main political parties at that time, such as PT, PFL, PMDB and PTB formed the so-called \"Presidential Front\" on one side and the \"Parliamentary Front\" (PSDB) at the other side in order to oppose the ambitions of royalist groups. In spite of the defeat obtained by the monarchist movement, their slogan \"Vote for the king\" () became one of the most well known in the history of Brazilian electoral campaigns, and 13.4% of the voters supported a monarchical regime.\n"}
{"id": "3409929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3409929", "title": "Brest Charter", "text": "Brest Charter\n\nBrest Charter was a document signed by the Irish Republican Movement (IRM), Breton Democratic Union (UDB), the Galician People's Union (UPG) and Lucha Occitana (LO) in February 1972 in Brest, Brittany, France. The Charter confirmed a joint struggle for a Europe of independent socialist states. The Herri Alderdi Sozialista Iraultzailea, Cymru Goch, Socialist Party of National Liberation - provisional, Catalan Workers Left, Su Populu Sardu and Occitan Struggle (LOC) also signed the Charter.\n"}
{"id": "8231866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8231866", "title": "Carter's Little Liver Pills", "text": "Carter's Little Liver Pills\n\nCarter's Little Liver Pills (Carter's Little Pills after 1959) were formulated as a patent medicine by Samuel J. Carter of Erie, Pennsylvania, in 1868. The active ingredient was changed when it was renamed in 1959 to be the laxative bisacodyl.\n\nCarter's trademark was a black crow. By 1880 the business was incorporated as Carter Products. The pills were touted to cure headache, constipation, dyspepsia, and biliousness. In the late 19th century, they were marketed in the UK by American businessman John Morgan Richards.\n\nCarter's Little Liver Pills predated the other available forms of bisacodyl and was a very popular and heavily advertised patent medicine up until the 1960s, spawning a common saying (with variants) in the first half of the 20th century: \"He/She has more _________ than Carter has Little Liver Pills\". In 1951 the Federal Trade Commission required the company to change the name to \"Carter's Little Pills\", since \"liver\" in the name was deceptive.\n\nThe senator Robert Byrd, after winning re-election in 2000, is quoted as saying, \"West Virginia has always had four friends, God Almighty, Sears Roebuck, Carter's Liver Pills and Robert C. Byrd.\"\n"}
{"id": "23274621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23274621", "title": "Center for Human Rights in Iran", "text": "Center for Human Rights in Iran\n\nCenter for Human Rights in Iran (formerly known as International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran (ICHRI)) is a non-government organization that works to bring international attention on the Iranian government’s repression of human rights and civil liberties in Iran. It is based in the United States. The group started in late 2007 when several human rights activists working for the Dutch non-governmental organization 'Foundation for Human Security in the Middle East' wished to focus on the situation in Iran. Hadi Ghaemi is the group's leader. He graduated from Boston University in 1994 and then taught physics at New York University until 2000. He has worked for human rights since and, in 2003, received a research grant from the MacArthur Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26367913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26367913", "title": "Colorado water courts", "text": "Colorado water courts\n\nThe Colorado water courts are specialized state courts of the U.S. state of Colorado. There are seven water courts, one in each of Colorado's seven major river basins: South Platte, Arkansas, Rio Grande, Gunnison, Colorado, White, and San Juan. The water courts are divisions of the district courts in that basin.\n\nWater judges are district court judges appointed by the Colorado Supreme Court. The water courts have exclusive subject-matter jurisdiction in the determination of water rights, the use and administration of water, and all other water matters within the jurisdiction of the water divisions.\n\nThe water courts were established by the Water Right Determination and Administration Act of 1969, a state law which created seven water divisions based upon the drainage patterns of Colorado's rivers. Each water division is staffed with a division engineer, appointed by the state engineer; a water judge, appointed by the Supreme Court; a water referee, appointed by the water judge; and a water clerk, assigned by the district court.\n\nThe seven water courts are:\n\n\n\nColorado Judicial Branch. (n.d.). Retrieved from courts.state.co.us: https://www.courts.state.co.us/Courts/Water/Division.cfm?Water_Division_ID=1"}
{"id": "36723484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36723484", "title": "Commercial bribery", "text": "Commercial bribery\n\nCommercial bribery is a form of bribery which involves corrupt dealing with the agents or employees of potential buyers to secure an advantage over business competitors. It is a form of corruption which does not necessarily involve government personnel or facilities.\n\nOne common type of commercial bribery is the kickback. For example, a seller of goods or services from \"Company A\" who offers the purchasing manager of \"Company B\" a payment to his own account to help him secure a contract for Company B's continued business is engaging in a form of commercial bribery.\n\nOther related offenses are payola in the entertainment industry, match fixing in sports, corruption of labor union officials, and bid rigging in non-governmental contracts.\n\nThere is no federal statute that by its terms expressly prohibits commercial bribery, though it is mentioned as part of the definition of aggravated felony for the purposes of United States immigration law. It is usually punishable as a felony under state law, depending on circumstances, but only 36 U.S. states have laws specifically prohibiting commercial bribery. Among them are California, Delaware, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, and Texas. However, the federal mail and wire fraud statutes can be used to prosecute commercial bribery as a \"scheme or artifice to defraud\" if the mail or interstate wire facilities are used. In addition, use of the mails or interstate travel or communication in furtherance of a violation of state commercial bribery laws may be prosecutable in Federal court under the Travel Act. As the penalties under the federal statutes may exceed the state penalties, and the federal investigative and enforcement agencies may have superior resources, often federal prosecution is favored.\n\nNew York's law against commercial bribery is contained in Article 180 of the state's penal code. It is one of the most extensive state laws against commercial bribery in the United States, and includes prohibitions against bribing labor officials, fixing sports contests, and rent gouging.\n\n"}
{"id": "9118197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9118197", "title": "Composers and Authors Society of Hong Kong", "text": "Composers and Authors Society of Hong Kong\n\nThe Composers and Authors Society of Hong Kong Ltd.(CASH) is a copyright society in Hong Kong established in 1977 which aims to administer and enforce collectively the rights of composers and authors of musical works subsisting under the copyright law of Hong Kong SAR. Its motto is \"your music partner\" which demonstrates the relationship of CASH with its members, music users and public. The word \"Author\" here stands for \"Lyricist\" instead of the common understanding of an author. CASH has established the CASH Music Fund to promote a higher standard of local music composition and to encourage and develop songwriting talent by sponsoring a wide range of musical activities in Hong Kong.\n\nCASH at present represents over 2 million songwriters including local Members and, by means of reciprocal representation agreements, Members from more than 190 countries / 80 overseas affiliated societies. All licence fees received after deduction of its administrative costs will be distributed to local Members and overseas affiliated societies.\n\nTo be eligible as a member of CASH, one must be either a writer (including composers and authors) or a music publisher:\n\nWriter (including composers and authors)\n\nHong Kong Identity Card holder;\n\nOriginal composer and / or lyricist; and\nMeeting one of the following 2 conditions :\n(i) At least 1 work having been commercially published; or\n(ii) 3 counts of original created work having been broadcast or made available or publicly performed by CASH licensees or in CASH licensed venues irrespective of the number of works involved.\n\nHeir of a deceased composer and / or author is also eligible to apply for 'Successor' membership.\n\nPublisher\n\nA publishing company or organisation registered in Hong Kong with publishing as its main objective; and has copyright ownership or publishing right of at least five original published works written by local writers (commercially released in Hong Kong) within the last two years.\n\n"}
{"id": "1899751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899751", "title": "Conclusive presumption", "text": "Conclusive presumption\n\nA conclusive presumption (in Latin, \"praesumptio iuris et de iure\"), also known as an irrebuttable presumption, is a type of presumption used in several legal systems.\n\nIn English law, a conclusive presumption is a presumption of law that cannot be rebutted by evidence and must be taken to be the case whatever the evidence to the contrary.\n\nFor example, a child below the age of criminal responsibility cannot be held legally responsible for his or her actions, and so cannot be convicted of committing a criminal offence. The age has continually been under debate with adjustments being made in line with rulings, the results of psychological research and to some extent public pressure. The age was seven at common law, and raised by the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 to eight (section 50) and by the Children and Young Persons Act 1963 to ten, at which it remains.\n\nIn Australian law, it is a conclusive presumption that no child under the age of 10 can be held responsible for criminal action. This presumption exists to protect children by acknowledging that they do not have sufficient development to understand the gravity and consequences of committing a criminal act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39572257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39572257", "title": "Convention on Transit Trade of Land-locked States", "text": "Convention on Transit Trade of Land-locked States\n\nThe Convention on Transit Trade of Land-locked States is a multilateral treaty that addresses international rules allowing for land-locked countries to transport goods to and from seaports. The convention imposes obligations on both land-locked states and on coastal states that ratify the treaty.\n\nThe convention was concluded at the United Nations Conference on Transit Trade of Land-locked Countries, which had been established by the United Nations General Assembly. It was concluded and signed on 8 July 1965. The treaty came into force on 9 June 1967.\n\nCoastal states that ratify the convention (known as \"transit states\") agree to make arrangements with land-locked states that are party to the treaty that wish to transit goods across the territory of the transit state to or from a coastal port in the transit state. The transit states agree that they will not discriminate based on place of origin or destination of the goods being transported. The land-locked states agree to be responsible for any expenses that the transit states incur in supervising or protecting the transit of the land-locked state's goods.\n\nThe convention has been noted as the first international agreement to recognise the special disadvantaged position of land-locked states.\n\nAs of June 2014, the treaty has been ratified by 43 states, made up of an approximately even split of land-locked and coastal states. The convention has essentially been superseded by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which contains similar provisions for transit arrangements to be made between coastal and land-locked states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3100252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3100252", "title": "Courtesy tenure", "text": "Courtesy tenure\n\nCourtesy tenure (or curtesy/courtesy of England) is the legal term denoting the life interest which a widower (i.e. former husband) may claim in the lands of his deceased wife, under certain conditions. The tenure relates only to those lands of which his wife was in her lifetime actually seised (or sasined in Scots law) and not therefore to an estate of inheritance.\n\nThe customs and the meaning of the word has considerable doubt. It has been said to be a tenure peculiar to England and to Scotland, hence called the courtesy of England and the courtesy of Scotland, yet this is erroneous, for it is found also in Germany and France. The \"Mirroir des Justices\" ascribes its introduction to King Henry I(1100–1135). The historian K.E. Digby states it to be connected with curia, having reference either to the attendance of the husband as tenant of the lands at the lord's court, or to mean simply that the husband is acknowledged tenant by the courts of England.\n\nThe requisites necessary to create a tenancy by courtesy are:\n\nIn the case of lands held under gavelkind tenure the husband has a right to courtesy tenure whether there is issue born or not but the courtesy extends only to a moiety (i.e. half) of the wife's lands and ceases if the husband marries again. The issue must have been capable of inheriting as heir to the wife, so that if for example a wife were seised of lands in tail male the birth of a daughter would not entitle the husband to a tenancy by courtesy.\n\nThe Married Women's Property Act 1882 has not affected the right of courtesy so far as relates to the wife's undisposed-of realty, and the Settled Land Act 1884, section 8, provides that for the purposes of the Settled Land Act 1882 the estate of a tenant by courtesy is to be deemed an estate arising under a settlement made by the wife.\n\nThe application of Courtesy (as spelled in Scots law) was abolished by Section 10 of the Succession (Scotland) Act 1964, in respect of all deaths occurring after the date of that Act. The right of Terce (being the equivalent claim by a wife on her husband's estate) was also abolished by the same provision.\n\n"}
{"id": "8380804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8380804", "title": "David A. Wiley", "text": "David A. Wiley\n\nDavid A. Wiley is Chief Academic Officer of Lumen Learning, Education Fellow at Creative Commons, and Adjunct Faculty of Instructional Psychology & Technology at Brigham Young University where he was previously an Associate Professor.\nWiley's work on open content, open educational resources, and informal online learning communities has been reported in many international outlets, including \"The New York Times\", \"The Hindu\", \"MIT Technology Review\", and \"WIRED\". Wiley was also previously a member of the Advisory Committee of University of the People.\n\nDavid A. Wiley is originally from Barboursville, West Virginia, where he received his undergraduate degree in vocal performance from Marshall University in 1997. He later earned his doctoral degree in Instructional Psychology and Technology at BYU in 2000. \n\nIn 1998 by Wiley initiated the \"Open Content Project\" for evangelizing Open content with the Open Publication License. In 2003 Wiley announced, the Open Content Project has been succeeded by Creative Commons, where he joined as \"Director of Educational Licenses\".\n\nHe was also Chief Openness Officer of Flat World Knowledge in 2007, founder of the Open High School of Utah, and was Associate Professor of Instructional Technology, and Founder and Director of the Center for Open and Sustainable Learning (COSL), at Utah State University. He has received the National Science Foundation's CAREER award and served as a Nonresident Fellow of the Center for Internet and Society at Stanford Law School. \"Fast Company\" rated Wiley #78 in a list of the top 100 creative people for 2009. Wiley was also named a Peery Social Entrepreneurship Fellow in the BYU Marriott School of Business in 2012.\n\nThe Center for Open and Sustainable Learning (COSL) operates on the principle that \"free and open access to educational opportunity is a basic human right\". Because it is getting easier to develop and distribute electronic tools around the globe, COSL sees the use of learning objects as a way to bring \"open education\" to all areas in an effort to fulfill \"a greater ethical obligation than ever before to increase the reach of opportunity\".\n\nWiley's early work focused on the design and development of learning objects. On one website, reusability.org, he explains that learning objects are developed to be reused as a solution to the problem of \"teacher bandwidth\". The \"teacher bandwidth\" problem is defined as \"the number of students we are capable of serving with our distance education offerings\".\n\nFrom 2001 to 2004, Wiley wrote a column in the Association for Educational Communications and Technology (AECT) academic journal TechTrends entitled \"Back Burner.\"\nWiley's 10 most influential publications, as ranked by Google Scholar, are:\n\n\nMany of Wiley's publications are available from the BYU institutional repository, Scholars Archive.\n\n"}
{"id": "1341065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1341065", "title": "Declaration by United Nations", "text": "Declaration by United Nations\n\nDeclaration by United Nations was the main treaty that formalized the Allies of World War II; the declaration was signed by 47 national governments between 1942 and 1945. The original signatories on 1–2 January 1942, at the Arcadia Conference in Washington DC, included the so-called \"Big Three\": the Soviet Union (USSR), United Kingdom and the United States (USA). Together with China(Republic of China, ROC), the UK, USA and USSR were sometimes known as the \"Four Policemen\". \n\nThe other original signatories (1–2 January 1942) were: the four Dominions of the British Commonwealth (Australia, Canada, New Zealand and South Africa); eight European governments-in-exile (Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Greece, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland and Yugoslavia); nine countries in The Americas (Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama); and one non-independent government, the British-appointed Government of India.\n\nDeclaration by United Nations became the basis of the United Nations (UN), which was formalized in the United Nations Charter signed by 50 countries on 26 June 1945.\n\nThe earliest concrete plan for a new world organization began under the aegis of the U.S. Department of State in 1939. The Declaration was drafted at the White House on December 29, 1941, by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Prime Minister Winston Churchill, and Roosevelt aide Harry Hopkins. It incorporated Soviet suggestions, but left no role for France. Roosevelt first coined the term \"United Nations\" to describe the Allied countries. Roosevelt suggested \"United Nations\" as an alternative to the name \"Associated Powers\". Churchill accepted it, noting that the phase was used by Lord Byron in the poem \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\" (Stanza 35). The term was first officially used on 1–2 January 1942, when 26 governments signed the declaration. One major change from the Atlantic Charter was the addition of a provision for religious freedom, which Stalin approved after Roosevelt insisted. By spring 1945 it was signed by 21 more states.\n\nDeclaration by United Nations was the basis of the modern UN. The term \"United Nations\" became synonymous during the war with the Allies and was considered to be the formal name that they were fighting under. The text of the declaration affirmed the signatories' perspective \"that complete victory over their enemies is essential to defend life, liberty, independence and religious freedom, and to preserve human rights and justice in their own lands as well as in other lands, and that they are now engaged in a common struggle against savage and brutal forces seeking to subjugate the world\". The principle of \"complete victory\" established an early precedent for the Allied policy of obtaining the Axis' powers' \"unconditional surrender\". The defeat of \"Hitlerism\" constituted the overarching objective, and represented a common Allied perspective that the totalitarian militarist regimes ruling Germany, Italy, and Japan were indistinguishable. The declaration, furthermore, \"upheld the Wilsonian principles of self determination\", thus linking U.S. war aims in both world wars.\n\nBy the end of the war, 21 other states had acceded to the declaration, including the Philippines (a non-independent, US commonwealth at the time), France, every Latin American state except Argentina, and the various independent states of the Middle East and Africa. Although most of the minor Axis powers had switched sides and joined the United Nations as co-belligerents against Germany by the end of the war, they were not allowed to accede to the declaration. Occupied Denmark did not sign the declaration, but because of the vigorous resistance after 1943, and because the Danish ambassador Henrik Kauffmann had expressed the adherence to the declaration of all free Danes, Denmark was nonetheless invited among the allies in the San Francisco Conference in March 1945.\n\nThe parties pledged to uphold the Atlantic Charter, to employ all their resources in the war against the Axis powers, and that none of the signatory nations would seek to negotiate a separate peace with Germany or Japan in the same manner that the nations of the Triple Entente had agreed not to negotiate a separate peace with any or all of the Central Powers in World War I under the Unity Pact.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4653428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4653428", "title": "Decree of Themistocles", "text": "Decree of Themistocles\n\nThe Decree of Themistocles or Troezen Inscription is an ancient Greek inscription, found at Troezen, discussing Greek strategy in the Greco-Persian Wars, purported to have been issued by the Athenian assembly under the guidance of Themistocles. Since the publication of its contents in 1960, the authenticity of the decree has been the subject of much academic debate. The decree directly contradicts Herodotus's account of the evacuation of Attica in 480 BC, in which it is stated that the evacuation was an emergency measure taken only after the Peloponnesian army failed to advance into Boeotia to fight the Persians. If the decree is authentic, the abandonment of Attica was part of a considered strategy aiming to draw the Persians into naval combat at Artemisium or Salamis.\n\nThe stone bearing the Themistocles decree (Epigraphical Museum, Athens, EM 13330) was discovered at some point before 1959 by Anargyros Titiris, a local farmer at Troezen, in the northeastern Peloponnese. For some time, he used the inscribed marble slab as a doorstep. In 1959, he donated the stone to a collection of artifacts from Troezen that a local schoolteacher was displaying at a coffeehouse. There, Professor M.H. Jameson of the University of Pennsylvania saw the slab, and, the next year, published its contents along with a translation and commentary.\n\nThe inscription begins with a statement that the contents are a resolution of the Athenian assembly, proposed by Themistocles. It then lays out a plan to evacuate the women, children, and elderly of Attica to Troezen and Salamis, while the men board triremes and prepare to defend the city, leaving only the treasurers and priestesses on the Acropolis. The majority of the extant text then turns to the specifics of preparing the fleet, with the text on the slab becoming illegible before the end of the decree.\n\nIf the account of the evacuation of Athens implied by the Themistocles decree is accurate, the Herodotean account of the events of 480 BC must be revised to reflect a Greek strategy, agreed on in June, focused on stopping the Persian advance at Salamis and the Isthmus of Corinth. If this was indeed the Greek plan, then Thermopylae and Artemisium, which Herodotus describes as all-out attempts to defeat the Persian invasion, would in fact have been only holding actions intended to give time for the evacuation of Attica and the preparation of the defenses of the isthmus.\n\nChallenging as it did the prevailing interpretation of the Herodotean account that had up to that point stood as the definitive account of the Greco-Persian Wars, the authenticity of the Themistocles decree soon became the subject of heated scholarly debate. A study of the letter forms used suggested that the marble slab on which the decree was inscribed had been carved in the first half of the 3rd century BC, raising the question of how the text had survived for two centuries, particularly given that Athens was sacked by the Persians in 480 and again in 479 BC. The first extant mention of a decree that can be identified with the one found at Troezen comes from Demosthenes, who records that Aeschines read the decree aloud in 347 BC, again leaving a gap of over a century to account for. Scholars who support the authenticity of the decree point to the last two lines of the famous oracle given to the Athenians: \n\nDivine Salamis, you will bring death to women's sons<br>\nWhen the corn is scattered, or the harvest gathered in.\n\nThe identification of Salamis as the site of slaughter would seem to suggest that a strategy calling for a battle there had already been agreed upon by the Greek commanders, which would indicate that the account supported by the Themistocles decree is correct. Scholars skeptical of the decree however raise a number of arguments against its authenticity. The correlation provided by the oracle's mention of Salamis has been challenged by pointing out that oracles were sometimes altered after the fact; various anachronisms in phrasing have been pointed out, although supporters of the text's authenticity dismiss these, noting that Greek practice was to paraphrase documents rather than copy them verbatim; finally, more serious content issues, ranging from chronologically suspect passages to statements that seem out of place in an official decree to serious conflicts with Herodotus's detailed descriptions of Greek troop dispositions. In light of these objections, John Fine has argued that it is best to treat the Themistocles decree, if authentic, as an amalgamation of several decrees released at different times.\n\nIt should be emphasized that nothing in the decree explicitly contradicts the narrative of Herodotus, only modern scholarly interpretations of Herodotus, which tended to see Thermopylae and Artemision as \"all-out\" efforts to stop the Persian advance. The historian himself nowhere explicitly ascribes definitive dates or strategic intention to the Greeks or the Athenians. In fact, the narrative of Herodotus at 8.40, often pointed to as a crux of inconsistency between Herodotus and the decree, tends to support the authenticity of the decree. \"The Athenians requested them to put in at Salamis so that they take their children and women out of Attica and also take counsel what they should do. They had been disappointed in their plans, so they were going to hold a council about the current state of affairs. [2] They expected to find the entire population of the Peloponnese in Boeotia awaiting the barbarian, but they found no such thing. \" The Athenians, cheated of their hopes of a longer holding action at Thermopylae and Artemision and finding no resistance to the Persian advance being prepared in Boeotia, ask the other Greeks to stop at Salamis so that their families, presumably prepared to evacuate by the terms of the decree, can be conveyed to Salamis and Troezen. The decree itself is mute as to preparation of fortifications at the Isthmus and so, again, there is no explicit contradiction with the narrative of Herodotus\n\n"}
{"id": "13803076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13803076", "title": "Drug liberalization", "text": "Drug liberalization\n\nDrug liberalization is the process of eliminating or reducing drug prohibition laws. Variations of drug liberalization include: drug legalization, drug relegalization and drug decriminalization. Whilst many people would argue that decriminalization will only cause an increase in usage, studies from California and Colorado, two states who implemented the policy, found that '\"decriminalization\" of marijuana possession had little or no impact on rates of use, and found that it was effective in reducing drug usage due to better control.' (Winter, 1989). Drug liberalization may go hand in hand with or include measures to ensure responsible drug use and some state that its challenge is not in criticizing prohibition, but in designing something better.\n\nThe 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances made it mandatory for the signatory countries to \"adopt such measures as may be necessary to establish as criminal offences under its domestic law\" (art. 3, § 1) all the activities related to the production, sale, transport, distribution, etc. of the substances included in the most restricted lists of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances. Criminalization also applies to the \"cultivation of opium poppy, coca bush or cannabis plants for the purpose of the production of narcotic drugs\". The Convention distinguishes between the intent to traffic and personal consumption, stating that the latter should also be considered a criminal offence, but \"subject to the constitutional principles and the basic concepts of [the state’s] legal system\" (art. 3, § 2).\n\nThe European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) defines decriminalization as the removal of a conduct or activity from the sphere of criminal law; depenalisation signifying merely a relaxation of the penal sanction exacted by law. Decriminalization usually applies to offences related to drug consumption and may include either the imposition of sanctions of a different kind (administrative) or the abolition of all sanctions; other (noncriminal) laws then regulate the conduct or activity that has been decriminalized. Depenalisation usually consists of personal consumption as well as small-scale trading and generally signifies the elimination or reduction of custodial penalties, while the conduct or activity still remains a criminal offence. The term legalization refers to the removal of all drug-related offences from criminal law: use, possession, cultivation, production, trading, etc.\n\nDrug liberalization proponents hold differing reasons to support liberalization, and have differing policy proposals. The two most common positions are drug legalization (or re-legalization), and drug decriminalization.\n\nDrug legalization calls for a return to the pre-20th century situation in which almost all drugs were legal. This would require ending government-enforced prohibition on the distribution or sale and personal use of specified (or all) currently banned drugs. Proposed ideas range from full legalization which would completely remove all forms of government control, to various forms of regulated legalization, where drugs would be legally available, but under a system of government control which might mean for instance:\nThe regulated legalization system would probably have a range of restrictions for different drugs, depending on their perceived risk, so while some drugs would be sold over the counter in pharmacies or other licensed establishments, drugs with greater risks of harm might only be available for sale on licensed premises where use could be monitored and emergency medical care made available. Examples of drugs with different levels of regulated distribution in most countries include: caffeine (coffee, tea), nicotine (tobacco), and ethyl alcohol (beer, wine, spirits).\n\nFull legalization is often proposed by groups such as libertarians who object to drug laws on moral grounds, while regulated legalization is suggested by groups such as Law Enforcement Against Prohibition who object to the drug laws on the grounds that they fail to achieve their stated aims and instead greatly worsen the problems associated with use of prohibited drugs, but who acknowledge that there are harms associated with currently prohibited drugs which need to be minimized. Not all proponents of drug re-legalization necessarily share a common ethical framework, and people may adopt this viewpoint for a variety of reasons. In particular, favoring drug legalization does not imply approval of drug use.\n\nDrug decriminalization calls for reduced control and penalties compared to existing laws. Proponents of drug decriminalization generally support the use of fines or other punishments to replace prison terms, and often propose systems whereby illegal drug users who are caught would be fined, but would not receive a permanent criminal record as a result. A central feature of drug decriminalization is the concept of harm reduction.\n\nDrug decriminalization is in some ways an intermediate between prohibition and legalization, and has been criticized as being \"the worst of both worlds\", in that drug sales would still be illegal, thus perpetuating the problems associated with leaving production and distribution of drugs to the criminal underworld, while also failing to discourage illegal drug use by removing the criminal penalties that might otherwise cause some people to choose not to use drugs. However, there are many that argue that the decriminalization of possession of drugs would redirect focus of the law enforcement system of any country to put more effort into arresting dealers and big time criminals, instead of arresting minor criminals for mere possession, and thus be more effective.\n\nIn 2001 Portugal began treating use and possession of small quantities of drugs as a public health issue. This means rather than incarcerating those in possession they are referred to a treatment program. The drugs are still illegal, the police just handles the situation differently. This also decreases the amount of money the government spends fighting a war on drugs and money spent keeping drug users incarcerated.\n“As noted by the EMCDDA, across Europe in the last decades, there has been a movement toward “an approach that distinguishes between the drug trafﬁcker, who is viewed as a criminal, and the drug user, who is seen more as a sick person who is in need of treatment” (EMCDDA 2008, 22).6 A number of Latin American countries have similarly moved to reduce the penalties associated with drug use and personal possession” (Laqueur, 2015, p. 748).\nPortugal is the first country that has decriminalized the possession of small amounts of drugs, to positive results. Anyone caught with any type of drug in Portugal, if it is for personal consumption, will not be imprisoned.\n\nThere are numerous economic and social impacts of the criminalization of drugs. Prohibition increases crime (theft, violence, corruption) and drug price and increases potency. In many developing countries the production of drugs offers a way to escape poverty. Milton Friedman estimated that over 10,000 deaths a year in the US are caused by the criminalization of drugs, and if drugs were to be made legal innocent victims such as those shot down in drive by shootings, would cease or decrease. The economic inefficiency and ineffectiveness of such government intervention in preventing drug trade has been fiercely criticised by drug-liberty advocates. The War on Drugs of the United States, that provoked legislation within several other Western governments, has also garnered criticism for these reasons.\n\nMuch of the debate surrounding the economics of drug legalization centers on the shape of the demand curve for illegal drugs and the sensitivity of consumers to changes in the prices of illegal drugs. Proponents of drug legalization often assume that the quantity of addictive drugs consumed is unresponsive to changes in price; however, studies into addictive, but legal, substances like alcohol and cigarettes, have shown that consumption can be quite responsive to changes in prices. In the same study, economists Michael Grossman and Frank J. Chaloupka estimated that a 10% reduction in the price of cocaine would lead to a 14% increase in the frequency of cocaine use. This increase indicates that consumers are responsive to price changes in the cocaine market. There is also evidence that in the long run, consumers are much more responsive to price changes than in the short run, but other studies have led to a wide range of conclusions.\n\nConsidering that legalization would likely lead to an increase in the supply of drugs, the standard economic model predicts that the quantity of drugs consumed would rise and the prices would fall. However, Andrew E. Clark, an economist who has studied the effects of drug legalization, suggests that a specific tax, or sin tax, would counteract the increase in consumption.\n\nProponents of drug prohibition argue that many negative externalities, or third party costs, are associated with the consumption of illegal drugs., Externalities like violence, environmental effects on neighborhoods, increased health risks and, increased healthcare costs are often associated with the illegal drug market. Opponents of prohibition argue that many of those externalities are created by current drug policies. They believe that much of the violence associated with drug trade is due to the illegal nature of drug trade, where there is no mediating authority to solve disputes peacefully and legally. The illegal nature of the market also affects the health of consumers by making it difficult to acquire syringes, which often leads to needle sharing.\nProminent economist Milton Friedman argues that prohibition of drugs creates many negative externalities like increased incarceration rates, the undertreatment of chronic pain, corruption, disproportional imprisonment of African Americans, compounding harm to users, the destruction of inner cities and harm to foreign countries. Proponents of legalization also argue that prohibition decrease the quality of the drugs made, which often leads to more physical harm, like accidental overdoses and poisoning, to the drug users. Steven D. Levitt and Ilyana Kuziemko point to the over crowding of prisons as another negative side effect of the war on drugs. They believe that by sending such a large number of drug offenders to prison, the war on drugs has reduced the prison space available for other offenders. This increased incarceration rate not only costs tax payers more to maintain, it could possibly increase crime by crowding violent offenders out of prison cells and replacing them with drug offenders.\n\nA Harvard economist, Jeffrey Miron, estimated that ending the war on drugs would inject 76.8 billion dollars into the US economy in 2010 alone. He estimates that the government would save $41.3 billion for law enforcement and the government would gain up to $46.7 billion in tax revenue.\n\nSince the war on drugs began under the administration of President Richard Nixon, the federal drug-fighting budget has increased from $100 million in 1970 to $15.1 billion in 2010, with a total cost estimated near 1 trillion dollars over 40 years. In the same time period an estimated 37 million nonviolent drug offenders have been incarcerated. $121 billion was spent to arrest these offenders and $450 billion to incarcerate them.\n\nAccording to 2013 data from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and European crime-fighting agency Europol, the annual global drugs trade is worth around $435 billion a year, with the annual cocaine trade worth $84 billion of that amount.\n\nThe cultivation, use and trade of psychoactive and other drugs has occurred since the dawn of civilization. In the 20th century, the United States government led a major renewed surge in drug prohibition called the \"War on Drugs.\" It was only in the 20th Century that Britain and the United States outlawed cannabis. The British had gone to war with China in the 19th Century in what became known as the First and Second Opium Wars to protect their valuable trade in narcotics.\n\nMotivations claimed by supporters of drug prohibition laws across various societies and eras have included religious observance, allegations of violence by racial minorities, and public health concerns. Those who are not proponents of anti-drug legislation characterize these motivations as religious intolerance, racism, and public healthism.\n\nVarious proponents of drug liberalization wish to repeal these laws for reasons ranging from individual rights-based defenses of liberty, to consequentialist arguments against the economic and social outcomes of drug prohibition. Starting in the 20th century, large organized movements to overturn existing drug laws formed around the world. The most vocal of these groups exist in liberal democracies, and typically attract liberal and libertarian supporters, although drug liberalization itself is a non-partisan issue and may be supported by adherents of any ideology.\n\nThe campaign against alcohol prohibition culminated in the Twenty-first Amendment to the United States Constitution repealing prohibition on 5 December 1933, as well as liberalization in Canada, and some but not all of the other countries that enforced prohibition. However, many laws controlling the use of alcohol continue to exist even in these countries.\n\nCurrent proponents of drug liberalization seek the repeal or softening of drug prohibition laws, most commonly cannabis but also including other controlled substances such as alcohol, tobacco, opiates, stimulants, psychedelics, dissociatives, prescription drugs, and others.\n\nAlthough Thailand has a strict drug policy, in May 2018, the Cabinet approved draft legislation that allows for more research into the effects of drug marijuana on people. Thus, the Government Pharmaceutical Organization (GPO) will soon begin clinical trials of marijuana as a preliminary step in the production of drugs from this plant. These medical studies are considered exciting, new landmarks in the history of Thailand, because since 1979, marijuana is a drug and its use, storage and manufacture is illegal.\n\nOn November 9, 2018, the National Assembly of Thailand officially proposed to allow licensed medical use of marijuana, thereby legalizing what was previously considered a dangerous drug.\n\nThe National Assembly on Friday submitted its amendments to the Ministry of Health, which would place marijuana and vegetable kratom in the category allowing their licensed possession and distribution in regulated conditions. The ministry will review the amendments before sending them to the cabinet, which will return it to the National Assembly for a final vote. This process can be completed before the end of the year. Thus, Thailand may become the first Asian country to legalize medical cannabis.It is worth noting that the proposed changes will not allow recreational use of drugs. These actions were taken because of the growing interest in the use of marijuana and its components for the treatment of certain diseases.\n\nSupporters of legalization argue that the legal market for marijuana in Thailand could increase to $ 5 billion by 2024. \n\nIn the Czech Republic, until 31 December 1998 only drug possession \"for other person\" (i.e. intent to sell) was criminal (apart from production, importation, exportation, offering or mediation, which was and remains criminal) while possession for personal use remained legal.\n\nOn 1 January 1999, an amendment of the Criminal Code, which was necessitated in order to align the Czech drug rules with the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, became effective, criminalizing possession of \"amount larger than small\" also for personal use (Art. 187a of the Criminal Code) while possession of small amounts for personal use became a misdemeanor.\n\nThe judicial practice came to the conclusion that the \"amount larger than small\" must be five to ten times larger (depending on drug) than a usual single dose of an average consumer.\n\nOn 14 December 2009, the Government of the Czech Republic adopted Regulation No. 467/2009 Coll., that took effect on 1 January 2010, and specified what \"amount larger than small\"\" under the Criminal Code meant, effectively taking over the amounts that were already established by the previous judicial practice. According to the regulation, a person could possess up to 15 grams of marijuana or 1.5 grams of heroin without facing criminal charges. These amounts were higher (often many times) than in any other European country, possibly making the Czech Republic the most liberal country in the European Union when it comes to drug liberalization, apart from Portugal. Czech Republic has also the highest prevalence of last years cannabis use among young adults (15-34) (18.5% in 2012) among the 30 counties reporting to the EMCDDA.\n\nUnder the Regulation No. 467/2009 Coll, possession of the following amounts or less of illicit drugs was to be considered smaller than large for the purposes of the Criminal Code and was to be treated as a misdemeanor subject to a fine equal to a parking ticket:\n\nIn 2013, a District Court in Liberec was deciding a case of a person that was accused of criminal possession for having 3.25 grams of methamphetamine (1.9 grams of straight methamphetamine base), well over the Regulation's limit of 2 grams. The court considered that basing a decision on mere Regulation would be unconstitutional and in breach of Article 39 of the Czech Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms which states that \"\"only a law may designate which acts constitute a crime and what penalties, or other detriments to rights or property, may be imposed for committing them\" and proposed to the Constitutional Court to abolish the Regulation. In line with the District Courts' argument, the Constitutional Court abolished the Regulation effective from 23 August 2013, noting that the \"amount larger than small\" within the meaning of the Criminal Code may be designated only by the means of an Act of Parliament, and not a Governmental Regulation. Moreover, the Constitutional Court further noted that the Regulation merely took over already existing judicial practice of interpretation of what constitutes \"amount larger than small\"\" and thus its abolishment will not really change the criminality of drug possession in the country. Thus, the above-mentioned amounts from the now-not-effective Regulation remain as the base for consideration of police and prosecutors, while courts are not bound by the precise grammage.\n\nSale of any amount (not purchase) remains a criminal act. Possession of \"amount larger than a small\" of marijuana can result in a jail sentence of up to one year. For other illicit drugs, the sentence is up to two years. Trafficking as well as production (apart from growing up to five plants of marijuana) offenses carry stiffer sentences.\n\nMedical use of cannabis on prescription has been legal and regulated since 1 April 2013.\n\nFollowing a contentious debate France opened its first supervised injection centre on 11 October 2016. Marisol Touraine, the Minister of Health, declared that the centre was \"a strong political response, for a pragmatic and responsible policy that brings high-risk people back towards the health system rather than stigmatizing them.\" The centre is located near the Gare du Nord.\n\nIn 1994 the Federal Constitutional Court ruled that drug addiction was not a crime, nor was the possession of small amounts of drugs for personal use. In 2000 the German narcotic law (\"BtmG\") was changed to allow for supervised drug injection rooms. In 2002, a pilot study was started in seven German cities to evaluate the effects of heroin-assisted treatment on addicts, compared to methadone-assisted treatment. The positive results of the study led to the inclusion of heroin-assisted treatment into the services of the mandatory health insurance in 2009. On 4 May 2016 the Cabinet of Germany decided to approve the measure for legal cannabis for seriously ill patients who have consulted with a doctor and \"have no therapeutic alternative\". German Health Minister, Hermann Gröhe, presented the legal draft on the legalization of medical cannabis to the cabinet which is expected to take effect early 2017.\nOn 2 November 2015, Aodhán Ó Ríordáin, the minister in charge of the National Drugs Strategy, announced that Ireland planned to introduce supervised injection rooms.The minister also referenced that possession of controlled substances will be decriminalized although supply and production will remain criminalized. On July 12, 2017, the Health Committee of the Irish government rejected a bill that would have legalized medical cannabis.\n\nThe drug policy of the Netherlands is based on 2 principles:\n\n\nCannabis remains a controlled substance in the Netherlands and both possession and production for personal use are still misdemeanors, punishable by fine. Cannabis coffee shops are also illegal according to the statutes.\n\nHowever, a policy of non-enforcement has led to a situation where reliance upon non-enforcement has become common, and because of this the courts have ruled against the government when individual cases were prosecuted.\n\nOn 14 June 2010, the Stoltenberg commission recommended implementing heroin assisted treatment and expanding harm reduction measures. On 18 June 2010, Knut Storberget, Minister of Justice and the Police announced that the ministry was working on new drug policy involving decriminalization by the Portugal model, which was to be introduced to parliament before the next general election. However, Storberget later changed his statements, saying the decriminalization debate is \"for academics\", instead calling for coerced treatment. In early March 2013, minister of health and care services Jonas Gahr Støre proposed to decriminalize the inhalation of heroin by 2014 as a measure to decrease drug overdoses. In 2011 there were 294 fatal overdoses, in comparison to only 170 traffic related deaths.\n\nIn 2001, Portugal became the first European country to abolish all criminal penalties for personal drug possession, under Law 30/2000. In addition, drug users were to be provided with therapy rather than prison sentences. Research commissioned by the Cato Institute and led by Glenn Greenwald found that in the five years after the start of decriminalization, illegal drug use by teenagers had declined, the rate of HIV infections among drug users had dropped, deaths related to heroin and similar drugs had been cut by more than half, and the number of people seeking treatment for drug addiction had doubled. However, Peter Reuter, a professor of criminology and public policy at the University of Maryland, College Park, suggests that the heroin usage rates and related deaths may have been due to the cyclical nature of drug epidemics, but conceded that \"decriminalization in Portugal has met its central goal. Drug use did not rise.\"\n\nThe use of marijuana in Ukraine is not prohibited, but the manufacture, storage, transportation and sale of cannabis and its derivatives are under administrative and criminal liability.\n\nSpeaking on the legalization of soft drugs in Ukraine has been going on for a long time. In June 2016, the Parliament received a bill on the legalization of marijuana for medical purposes. He dealt with changes to the current act “On narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors” and was registered number 4533. The document must examine the relevant committee, and then submit it to the government. It was expected that this would happen in the fall of 2016, but the bill was not considered.\n\nIn October 2018, a petition appeared on the website of electronic appeals to the President of Ukraine asking for the legalization of marijuana.\n\nIn October 2018, the State Service of Ukraine on Drugs and Drug Control issued the first license for the import and re-export of raw materials and products derived from cannabis. The corresponding licenses were obtained by the USA company C21. She is also in the process of applying for additional licenses, including the cultivation of cannabis.\n\nIn the late 2000s and early 2010s, advocacy for drug legalization has increased in Latin America. Spearheading the movement Uruguayan government announced in 2012 plans to legalize state-controlled sales of marijuana in order to fight drug-related crimes. Some countries in this region have already advanced towards depenalization of personal consumption.\n\nIn August 2009, the Argentine supreme court declared in a landmark ruling that it was unconstitutional to prosecute citizens for having drugs for their personal use - \"adults should be free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state\". The decision affected the second paragraph of Article 14 of the country’s drug control legislation (Law Number 23,737) that punishes the possession of drugs for personal consumption with prison sentences ranging from one month to two years (although education or treatment measures can be substitute penalties). The unconstitutionality of the article concerns cases of drug possession for personal consumption that does not affect others.\n\nIn 2002 and 2006, Brazil went through legislative changes, resulting in a partial decriminalization of possession for personal use. Prison sentences no longer applied and were replaced by educational measures and community services. However, the 2006 law does not provide objective means to distinguish between users or traffickers. A disparity exists between the decriminalization of drug use and the increased penalization of selling drugs, punishable with a maximum prison sentences of 5 years for the sale of very minor quantities of drugs. Most of those incarcerated for drug trafficking are offenders caught selling small quantities of drugs, among them drug users who sell drugs to finance their drug habits. Since 2006, there's been a long debate whether the anti-drug law goes against the Constitution and principle of personal freedom. In 2009, the Supreme Federal Court re-opened to vote if the law is Constitutional, or if it goes against the Constitution specifically against personal Freedom of choice. Since each Minister inside the tribunal can take a personal time to evaluate the law, the voting can take years. In fact, the voting was re-opened in 2015, 3 ministers voted in favor, and then the law was again paused by another minister.\n\nGuatemalan President Otto Pérez Molina and Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos proposed the legalization of drugs in an effort to counter the failure of the War on Drugs, which was said to have yielded poor results at a huge cost. On 25 May 2016, the congress approved the legalization of marijuana for medical usage.\n\nCosta Rica has decriminalized drugs for personal consumption. Manufacturing or selling drugs is still a jailable offense.\n\nAccording to the 2008 Constitution of Ecuador, in its Article 364, the Ecuadorian state does not see drug consumption as a crime but only as a health concern. Since June 2013 the state drugs regulatory office CONSEP has published a table which establishes maximum quantities carried by persons so as to be considered in legal possession and that person as not a seller of drugs. The \"CONSEP established, at their latest general meeting, that the following quantities be considered the maximum consumer amounts: 10 grams of marijuana or hash, 4 grams of opiates, 100 milligrams of heroin, 5 grams of cocaine, 0.020 milligrams of LSD, and 80 milligrams of methamphetamine or MDMA\".\n\nOn 22 February 2008, Honduras President Manuel Zelaya, called on the United States to legalize drugs, in order, he said, to prevent the majority of violent murders occurring in Honduras. Honduras is used by cocaine smugglers as a transiting point between Colombia and the US. Honduras, with a population of 7 million suffers an average of 8–10 murders a day, with an estimated 70% being as a result of this international drug trade. The same problem is occurring in Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa Rica and Mexico, according to Zelaya.\n\nIn April 2009, the Mexican Congress approved changes in the General Health Law that decriminalized the possession of illegal drugs for immediate consumption and personal use allowing a person to possess up to 5 g of marijuana or 500 mg of cocaine. The only restriction is that people in possession of drugs should not be within a 300 meter radius of schools, police departments, or correctional facilities. Opium, heroin, LSD, and other synthetic drugs were also decriminalized, it will not be considered as a crime as long as the dose does not exceed the limit established in the General Health Law. Many question this, as cocaine is as much synthesised as heroin, both are produced as extracts from plants. The law establishes very low amount thresholds and strictly defines personal dosage. For those arrested with more than the threshold allowed by the law this can result in heavy prison sentences, as they will be assumed to be small traffickers even if there are no other indications that the amount was meant for selling.\n\nUruguay is one of few countries that never criminalized the possession of drugs for personal use. Since 1974, the law establishes no quantity limits, leaving it to the judge’s discretion to determine whether the intent was personal use. Once it is determined by the judge that the amount in possession was meant for personal use, there are no sanctions.\n\nIn June 2012, the Uruguayan government announced plans to legalize state-controlled sales of marijuana in order to fight drug-related crimes. The government also stated that they will ask global leaders to do the same.\n\nOn 31 July 2013, the Uruguayan House of Representatives approved a bill to legalize the production, distribution, sale, and consumption of marijuana by a vote of 50 to 46. The bill then passed the Senate, where the left-leaning majority coalition, the Broad Front, holds a comfortable majority, the bill was approved by the Senate by 16 to 13 on 10-December-2013. The bill was presented to the President José Mujica, also of the Broad Front coalition, who has supported legalization since June 2012. Relating this vote to the 2012 legalization of marijuana by the U.S. states Colorado and Washington, John Walsh, drug policy expert of the Washington Office on Latin America, stated that \"Uruguay's timing is right. Because of last year’s Colorado and Washington State votes to legalize, the U.S. government is in no position to browbeat Uruguay or others who may follow.\"\n\nIn July 2014, government officials announced that part of the implementation of the law (the sale of cannabis through pharmacies) is postponed to 2015, as \"there are practical difficulties\". Authorities will grow all the cannabis that can be sold legal. Concentration of THC shall be 15% or lower. In August 2014 an opposition presidential candidate, who was not elected in the November 2014 presidential elections, claimed that the new law was never going to be applied, as it was not workable. By the end of 2016 the government announced that the sale through pharmacies will be fully implemented during 2017.\n\nThe cultivation of cannabis is currently legal in Canada, with exceptions only for Manitoba and Quebec. The recreational use of cannabis by the general public is legal with restrictions on smoking in public locations which vary by jurisdiction. The sale of marijuana seeds is also legal.\n\nIn 2001, \"The Globe and Mail\" reported that a poll found 47% of Canadians agreed with the statement, \"The use of marijuana should be legalized\" in 2000, compared to 26% in 1975. A more recent poll found that more than half of Canadians supported legalization. However, in 2007 Prime Minister Stephen Harper's government tabled Bill C-26 to amend the \"Controlled Drugs and Substances Act\", 1996 to bring forth a more restrictive law with higher minimum penalties for drug crimes. Bill-26 died in committee after the dissolution of the 39th Canadian Parliament in September 2008, but the Bill had subsequently been resurrected by the government twice. In 2016, the Liberal Party of Canada campaigned on a promise to legalize marijuana and has since passed legislation making marijuana legal across Canada on 17 October 2018.\n\nThroughout the United States, various people and groups have been pushing for the legalization of marijuana for medical reasons. Organizations such as NORML and the Marijuana Policy Project work to decriminalize possession, use, cultivation, and sale of marijuana by adults, even beyond medical uses. In 1996, 56% of California voters voted for California Proposition 215, legalizing the growing and use of marijuana for medical purposes. This created significant legal and policy tensions between federal and state governments. Since then, 20 more states and the District of Columbia have legalized and regulated medical marijuana. State laws in conflict with federal law about cannabis remain valid, and prevent state level prosecution, despite cannabis being illegal under federal law (see Gonzales v. Raich).\n\nOn 6 November 2012, Colorado and Washington state legalized possession of small amounts of marijuana for private recreational use, and created a process for writing rules for legal growing and commercial distribution of marijuana within each state.\n\nThe 2014 Midterms saw voters in Oregon, Alaska, and Washington, D.C. vote to legalize marijuana for recreational use.\n\nIn 2016, California Proposition 64 was passed, legalizing private, recreational use of marijuana for those age 21 or older in the state of California.\n\nAustralia has one of the highest percentages of marijuana smokers in the world. In 1993, HEMP (Help End Marijuana Prohibition) was established and continued the fight for law reform. In 2010, HEMP qualified as a political party and will be fielding candidates in elections where possible.\n\nIn 2011, the Cannabis Campaign seemed to experience a renaissance in Australia, no doubt due to developments worldwide, with many new groups appearing in different states, using social media as a conduit and forum. Since 1985, the Federal Government has run a declared \"War on Drugs\" and while initially Australia led the world in 'harm-minimization' approach, they have since lagged. In 2012, the think tank Australia 21, released a report on the decriminalization of drugs in Australia.\n\n'Harm-minimization' approaches towards MDMA and ecstasy have also met opposition. A trial of drug checking at the popular Spilt Milk festival was cancelled in October 2017. While organizers have blamed this on a lack of documentation sources allege that political pressure caused the cancellation. Proponents argue that pill testing is an important service considering Australia having the highest per capita use of ecstasy globally as well as some of the most adulterated pills.\n\nIn October 2016, Australia legislated for some medicinal use cannabis.\n\nMany political parties support, to various degrees, and for various reasons, liberalising drug control laws, from liberal parties to far-left movements, as well as some pragmatic right-wing intellectuals. Drug liberalization is fundamental in the platforms of most libertarian parties.\n\nIn the UK in March 2016, the Liberal Democrats became the first major political party in the country to support the legalisation of cannabis.\n\nThere are also numerous single issue marijuana parties devoted to campaign for the legalisation of cannabis exclusively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "298725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298725", "title": "Duncan Kennedy (legal philosopher)", "text": "Duncan Kennedy (legal philosopher)\n\nDuncan Kennedy (born 1942) is the Carter Professor of General Jurisprudence (Emeritus) at Harvard Law School. He is best known as one of the founders of the Critical Legal Studies movement in legal thought.\n\nKennedy received an A.B. from Harvard College in 1964 and then worked for two years in the CIA operation that controlled the National Student Association. In 1966 he rejected his \"cold war liberalism.\" He quit the CIA and in 1970 earned an LL.B. from Yale Law School. After completing a clerkship with Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart, Kennedy joined the Harvard Law School faculty, becoming a full professor in 1976. In March 2010 he received an Honoris Causa (honorary degree) Ph.D. title from the University of the Andes in Colombia.\n\nKennedy has been a member of the American Civil Liberties Union since 1967. According to his own testimony, he has never forgotten to pay his dues.\n\nIn 1977, together with Karl Klare, Mark Kelman, Roberto Unger, and other scholars, Kennedy established the Critical Legal Studies movement. Outside legal academia, he is mostly known for his monograph \"Legal Education and the Reproduction of Hierarchy\"*, famous for its trenchant critique of American legal education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24070791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24070791", "title": "Election Commission, Nepal", "text": "Election Commission, Nepal\n\nThe Election Commission, Nepal (; \"Nirvācana āyōg, Nēpāl\") is a constitutional body responsible for conducting and monitoring elections, as well as registering parties and candidates and reporting election outcomes, in Nepal. It was born out of the 1950 revolution in Nepal, and was established in law in 1951, although it has been changed somewhat by law over time. It has six members who serve for six-year terms, as established by the Constitution of Nepal. During the Constituent Assembly elections in 2008, it was criticized for not fully upholding its duties, but was acknowledged to have managed the elections well nonetheless.\n\nThe first election commissioner was Subarna Shumsher Rana in 1951 A.D.\n\nThe year 1950 was important in the history of Nepal: in that year, the Rana dynasty, which had controlled the government for exactly 104 years, was overthrown. The coup d'état marked Nepal's first attempt at democracy; one of the primary goals of the revolution was to eventually establish the Nepalese Constituent Assembly. The democratic experiment was short-lived; in less than ten years, King Mahendra dissolved the government in favor of the Panchayat system. However, another major accomplishment was the establishment of the National Election Commission in 1951.\n\nThe commission was declared by law to be independent of the government in 1966. This has been confirmed by Nepal's interim constitution in 2007.\n\nIt has five members, consisting of the Chief Election Commissioner and four others. The members serve for 6 years. In order to enforce its election guidelines, the commission employs a group of around 240,000 officials, mostly civil servants, to monitor elections.\n\nWhen the commission was established, the members were chosen by the King. In 1989, King Birendra's constitution declared that the Chief Election Commissioner would still be appointed by the king, but the others would not. The interim constitution further amended the body's composition in 2006: all five members were made under appointment of the Prime Minister.\n\nThe commission came under some criticism during the Constituent Assembly elections for failing to enforce the code of conduct during elections. It also failed to fully educate voters about the election. However, it was acknowledged to have helped the elections run smoothly overall.\n"}
{"id": "29717759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29717759", "title": "Guinean constitutional referendum, 1958", "text": "Guinean constitutional referendum, 1958\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Guinea on 28 September 1958 as part of a wider referendum across the French Union (and France itself) on whether to adopt the new French Constitution; if accepted, colonies would become part of the new French Community; if rejected, the territory would be granted independence. \n\nAlongside Niger, Guinea was one of only two territories where the major political party campaigned for a \"no\" vote, and ultimately was the only colony to reject the constitution and opt for independence. The Democratic Party of Guinea, which had won all but four seats in the Territorial Assembly elections the previous year under the leadership of Ahmed Sékou Touré, pushed for a rejection of the constitution, and on 19 October the party severed its ties with the African Democratic Rally, whose other members were in favour of retaining ties with France.\n\nThe results showed that more than 95% of voters voted against the constitution, with a turnout of 85.5%.\n\nFollowing the referendum, Guinea declared independence on 2 October. The French government reacted badly to the result, and although Touré had not been seeking it, withdrew totally from the country and halted any development assistance. As a result, the Guinean government turned to the Communist bloc to request aid, a step which the French government used in pressuring Western countries not to accept the Guinean independence. Upon independence Touré assumed the office of President, and the country soon became a one-party state. Despite various assassination attempts and coup plots, Touré ruled until 1984.\n"}
{"id": "13614735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13614735", "title": "Haifa Center for Law &amp; Technology", "text": "Haifa Center for Law &amp; Technology\n\nThe Haifa Center for Law & Technology (HCLT) is a renowned interdisciplinary.\n\nIt is the first and the only center in Israel dedicated to the study of the interconnection between law and technology.\nHCLT is based at the Faculty of Law, University of Haifa. \nThe main goal of the center is to promote research activities in the fields of Law & Technology and Intellectual Property. HCLT further seeks to promote dialogue between academics, innovators, policymakers and businesses, to establish the scientific foundation for lawmaking addressing new technologies. \nThe center conducts workshops and conferences, and promotes research activities by faculty and students. \nWith four full-time faculty, international visiting professor and number of adjunct faculty HCLT offers a wide range of courses and seminars in intellectual property and information law at the graduate and post graduate level.\nGraduate programs including a unique LL.M program in Law and Technology and a Master program MA in Patent Law (intended for Scientists and Engineers) in collaboration with the world Intellectual Property (WIPO) Worldwide Academy.\nHCLT benefits from the collaboration with two major centers for the study of the information environment located at the University of Haifa: The Institute for Interdisciplinary Applications of Computer Science and the Center for the Study of the Information Society. The Center has established a worldwide reputation in its field and enjoys a wide network of international collaborators. \nHCLT facilitates Creative Commons Israel.\n"}
{"id": "509563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509563", "title": "Harry J. Anslinger", "text": "Harry J. Anslinger\n\nHarry Jacob Anslinger (May 20, 1892 – November 14, 1975) was a United States government official who served as the first commissioner of the U.S. Treasury Department's Federal Bureau of Narcotics. He was a supporter of prohibition and the criminalization of drugs, and played a pivotal role in cannabis prohibition.\n\nAnslinger held office an unprecedented 32 years in his role as commissioner until 1962. He then held office two years as U.S. Representative to the United Nations Narcotics Commission. The responsibilities once held by Anslinger are now largely under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Office of National Drug Control Policy.\n\nHarry Anslinger's father, Robert J. Anslinger, was a barber by trade who was born in Bern, Switzerland. His mother, Rosa Christiana Fladt, was born in Baden, Germany. The family emigrated to the United States in 1881. Robert Anslinger worked in New York for two years, then moved to Altoona, Pennsylvania. In 1892, the year Harry was born, Anslinger went to work for the Pennsylvania Railroad.\n\nAfter attending local schools, Harry Anslinger enrolled at Altoona Business College at the age of 17. He followed his father in going to work for the Pennsylvania Railroad. In 1913, he was granted a furlough so he could enroll at Pennsylvania State College, where he studied in a two-year associate degree program in business and engineering.\n\nAnslinger gained notoriety early in his career. At the age of 23 (in 1915), while working as an investigator for the Pennsylvania Railroad, he performed a detailed investigation that found the $50,000 claim of a widower in a railroad accident to be fraudulent. He saved the company the payout and was promoted to captain of railroad police.\n\nFrom 1917 to 1928, Anslinger worked for various military and police organizations on stopping international drug trafficking. His duties took him all over the world, from Germany to Venezuela to Japan. He is widely credited with shaping not only America's domestic and international drug policies but influencing drug policies of other nations, particularly those that had not debated the issues internally.\n\nBy 1929, Anslinger returned from his international tour to work as an assistant commissioner in the United States Treasury Department's Bureau of Prohibition. Around this time, corruption and scandal gripped prohibition and narcotics agencies. The ensuing shake-ups and re-organizations set the stage for Anslinger, perceived as an honest and incorruptible figure, to advance not only in rank but to great political stature.\n\nIn 1930, the 38 year-old Anslinger was appointed the founding commissioner of the Treasury's Federal Bureau of Narcotics. Just as today, the illegal trade in alcohol (then still under Prohibition) and illicit drugs were targeted by the Treasury not primarily as social evils - that fell, if anywhere, under other government purview - but as losses of revenue since they could not be taxed. Appointed by department Secretary Andrew W. Mellon, his wife's uncle, Anslinger was given a budget of $100,000 and turned loose.\n\nRestrictions on cannabis (\"Cannabis indica\", often called \"Indian Hemp\" in documents before the 1940s) as a drug started in local laws in New York in 1860. This was followed by local laws in many other states and by state laws in the 1910s and 1920s. The federal Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 regulated the labeling of patent medicines that contained \"cannabis indica\". In 1925 United States supported regulation of \"Indian hemp\" as use as a drug, in the International Opium Convention. Recommendations from the International Opium Convention inspired the work with the Uniform State Narcotic Act between 1925 and 1932.\n\nAnslinger had not been active in this process until approximately 1930. Prior to the end of alcohol prohibition, Anslinger had claimed that cannabis was not a problem, did not harm people, and \"there is no more absurd fallacy\" than the idea it makes people violent. His critics argue he shifted not due to objective evidence but self-interest due to the obsolescence of the Department of Prohibition he headed when alcohol prohibition ceased - campaigning for a new Prohibition against its use. Anslinger collected dubious anecdotes of marijuana causing crime and violence, and ignored contrary evidence such as doctor Walter Bromberg, who pointed out that substance abuse and crime are heavily confounded and that none of a group of 2,216 criminal convictions he examined were clearly done under marijuana's influence, or a discussion forwarded to him by the American Medical Association in which 29 of 30 pharmacists and drug industry representatives objected to his proposals to ban marijuana. One such statement claimed that the proposal was \"Absolute rot. It is not necessary. I have never known of its misuse.\", although only the single dissenter (who noted he had once encountered a doctor who had been addicted to marijuana) was preserved in Bureau files.\n\nAnslinger sought and ultimately received, as head of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics, an increase of reports about smoking of marijuana in 1936 that continued to spread at an accelerated pace in 1937. Before, smoking of marijuana had been relatively slight and confined to the Southwest, particularly along the Mexican border.\nThe Bureau first prepared a legislative plan to seek from Congress a new law that would place marijuana and its distribution directly under federal control. Second, Anslinger ran a campaign against marijuana on radio and at major forums. His view was clear, ideological and judgmental:\n\nBy using the mass media as his forum (receiving much support from yellow journalism publisher William Randolph Hearst), Anslinger propelled the anti-marijuana sentiment from state level to a national movement. He used what he called his \"Gore Files\" - a collection of quotes from police reports - to graphically depict offenses caused by drug users. They were written in the terse and concise language of a police report. His most infamous story in \"The American Magazine\" concerned Victor Licata who killed his family:\n\nThe story is one of 200 violent crimes that were documented in Anslinger's \"Gore Files\" series. However, it has since been proved that Licata never murdered his family because of cannabis use; the youth actually had a severe mental illness. Researchers have now proved that Anslinger wrongly attributed 198 of the \"Gore Files\" stories to marijuana usage and the remaining \"two cases could not be disproved, because no records existed concerning the crimes.\" During the 1937 Marijuana Tax Act hearings, Anslinger rehashed the 1933 Licata killings while giving testimony to congress.\n\nIn the 1930s Anslinger's articles often contained racist themes in his anti-marijuana campaign:\n\nOne night, in 1939, Billie Holiday stood on stage in New York City and sang Strange Fruit and was instructed to stop singing the same song; it was provocation of Holiday's self-defence, to justify the existence and budget of Anslinger's Federal Bureau of Narcotics. When Anslinger was interviewed in 1954 about drug abuse, however, he mentioned nothing about race or sex. In his book \"The Protectors\" (1964), Anslinger has a chapter called \"Jazz and Junk Don't Mix\" about black jazz musicians Billie Holiday (who he had handcuffed on her death bed due to suspicion of drug use and possession) and Charlie Parker, who both died after years of illegal heroin and alcohol abuse:\n\nAnslinger hoped to orchestrate a nationwide dragnet of jazz musicians and kept a file called \"Marijuana and Musicians.\"\n\nCritics of Anslinger believe the campaign against marijuana had a hidden agenda. For example, the E. I. DuPont De Nemours And Company industrial firm, petrochemical interests, and William Randolph Hearst conspired together to create the highly sensational anti-marijuana campaign to eliminate hemp as an industrial competitor to synthetic materials. However, the DuPont Company and industrial historians have disputed this link between development of nylon and changes in the laws for hemp (marijuana); the success for nylon was huge from start. It was not until 1934, and the fourth year in office, that Anslinger considered marijuana to be a serious threat to American society (Wallace Carothers first synthesized nylon on February 28, 1935). The League of Nations had already implemented restrictions for marijuana in the beginning of the 1930s and restrictions started in many states in the U.S years before Anslinger was appointed. Both president Franklin D. Roosevelt and his attorney general publicly supported this development in 1935. Anslinger was part of a larger movement aimed at alarming the public as part of the government's broader push to outlaw all recreational drugs.\n\nThe La Guardia Committee, promoted in 1939 by New York Mayor Fiorello La Guardia, was the first in-depth study into the effects of smoking marijuana. It systematically contradicted claims made by the U.S. Treasury Department that smoking marijuana resulted in insanity, and determined that '\"the practice of smoking marihuana does not lead to addiction in the medical sense of the word.\" Released in 1944, the report infuriated Anslinger, who was campaigning against marijuana, and he condemned it as unscientific.\n\nLater in his career, Anslinger was scrutinized for insubordination by refusing to desist from an attempt to halt the ABA/AMA Joint Report on Narcotic Addiction, a publication edited by the sociology Professor Alfred R. Lindesmith of Indiana University. Lindesmith wrote, among other works, \"Opiate Addiction\" (1947), \"The Addict and the Law\" (1965), and a number of articles condemning the criminalization of addiction. Nearly everything Lindesmith did was critical of the War on Drugs, specifically condemning Anslinger's role. The AMA/ABA controversy is sometimes credited with ending Anslinger's position of commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics.\n\nAnslinger was surprised to be re-appointed by President John F. Kennedy in February 1961. The new President had a tendency to invigorate the government with more youthful civil servants, and by 1962, Anslinger was 70 years old, the mandatory age for retirement in his position. In addition, during the previous year he had witnessed his wife Martha's slow and agonizing death due to heart failure, and had lost some of his drive and ambition. He submitted his resignation to President Kennedy on his 70th birthday, May 20, 1962. Since Kennedy did not have a successor, Anslinger stayed in his $18,500 a year ($145,733 when adjusted for inflation in 2014 dollars) position until later that year. He was succeeded by Henry Giordano. Following that, he was the United States Representative to the United Nations Narcotics Commission for two years after which he retired.\n\nBy 1973, Anslinger was completely blind, had a debilitatingly enlarged prostate gland and suffered from angina.\n\nOn November 14, 1975, at 1 p.m., Anslinger died of heart failure at the former Mercy Hospital (now known as Bon Secours Hospital Campus of the Altoona Regional Health System) in Altoona, Pennsylvania. He was 83.\n\nHe was survived by his son, Joseph Leet Anslinger, and a sister. According to John McWilliams's 1990 book, \"The Protectors: Anslinger and the Federal Bureau of Narcotics (1930–1962),\" Anslinger's daughter-in-law Bea at that time still lived in Anslinger's home in Hollidaysburg, Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2498897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2498897", "title": "ImageMovers", "text": "ImageMovers\n\nImageMovers is an American independent film production company founded by director Robert Zemeckis and producers Jack Rapke and Steve Starkey in 1997. The company is known for producing such films as \"Cast Away\" (2000), \"What Lies Beneath\" (2000) and \"The Polar Express\" (2004). From 2007 to 2011, The Walt Disney Company and ImageMovers founded a joint venture animation facility known as ImageMovers Digital which produced two performance captured animated films: \"A Christmas Carol\" (2009) and \"Mars Needs Moms\" (2011) for Walt Disney Pictures.\n\nImageMovers' first seven films were \"What Lies Beneath\" (with Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer), \"Cast Away\" (with Tom Hanks), \"The Polar Express\" (also with Tom Hanks), \"The Prize Winner of Defiance, Ohio\" (with Julianne Moore), \"Last Holiday\" (with Queen Latifah), \"Monster House\" (with Mitchel Musso, Sam Lerner, Spencer Locke and Steve Buscemi) and \"Beowulf\" (with Ray Winstone, Anthony Hopkins, John Malkovich, Robin Wright Penn and Angelina Jolie).\n\nIn 2007, The Walt Disney Company and ImageMovers set up a joint venture animation facility known as ImageMovers Digital, a Marin County-based film company where Zemeckis would produce and direct 3D animated films using performance capture technology.\n\nOn November 6, 2009, ImageMovers Digital released their first film \"A Christmas Carol\", a performance capture film based on the Charles Dickens book of the same name and starring Jim Carrey, Gary Oldman, Colin Firth and Cary Elwes each in multiple roles. On March 12, 2010, Disney and ImageMovers announced that ImageMovers Digital would close operations by January 2011 after production on \"Mars Needs Moms\" was completed. Resulting in a lay-off of approximately 450 employees, Walt Disney Studios president Alan Bergman said, \"...given today's economic realities, we need to find alternative ways to bring creative content to audiences and IMD no longer fits into our business model.\" The company had previously been reported to have \"Calling All Robots\", a \"Yellow Submarine\" remake, a \"Roger Rabbit\" sequel and \"The Nutcracker\" in development. Disney dropped all of these projects following the box-office failure of \"Mars Needs Moms\".\n\nIn August 2011, it was announced that ImageMovers has entered a two-year first-look producing deal with Universal Studios.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "8002154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8002154", "title": "Imperial Knight", "text": "Imperial Knight\n\nThe Free Imperial knights ( ) were free nobles of the Holy Roman Empire, whose direct overlord was the Emperor. They were the remnants of the medieval free nobility (\"edelfrei\") and the ministeriales. What distinguished them from other knights, who were vassals of a higher lord, was the fact that they had been granted Imperial immediacy, and as such were the equals in most respects to the other individuals or entities, such as the secular and ecclesiastical territorial rulers of the Empire (margraves, dukes, princes, counts, archbishops, bishops, abbots, etc.) and the Free Imperial cities, that also enjoyed Imperial immediacy. However, unlike all of those, the Imperial knights did not possess the status of Estates (\"Stände\") of the Empire, and therefore were not represented, individually or collectively, in the Imperial Diet.They tended to define their responsibilities to the Empire in terms of feudalized obligations to the Emperor, including personal service and strictly voluntary financial offerings paid to the Emperor himself.\n\nTo protect their rights and avoid vassalage to more powerful nobles, they organized themselves into three unions (Partheien) in the late 15th century and into a single body in 1577, and fought to win recognition. This status, beholden only to the Emperor himself rather than through a more powerful noble, meant the Imperial Knights were \"immediate subjects\" (their fealty was unmediated by another lord). As such, the Imperial Knights exercised a limited form of sovereignty within their territories.\n\nThe Imperial Knighthood was a regional phenomenon limited to southwestern and south-central Germany—Swabia, Franconia and the Middle Rhine area—zones which were highly fragmented politically and where no powerful states were able to develop. In northern and northeastern Germany, as well as in Bavaria and Austria, the local nobles, facing larger states and stronger rulers, were incapable of developing and maintaining their independence. They formed the territorial nobility.\n\nThe immediate status of the Imperial Knights was recognized at the Peace of Westphalia. They never gained access to the Imperial Diet, the parliament of lords, and were not considered Hochadel, the high nobility, belonging to the Lower Nobility. \n\nThe Free Imperial Knights arose in the 14th century, the fusion of the remnants of the old free lords (Edelfrei) and the stronger elements of the unfree ministeriales that had won noble status.\n\nAround 1300, the manoral economy suffered contraction due to the fluctuation in the price of agricultural foodstuffs. Ministeriales who were in a stronger economic position were better able to survive the weakening of their basis as landowners. The vast majority languished in poverty, resorting to selling lands to the Church, or to brigandage.\n\nThe minority of ministeriales rich enough to weather the crises soon came to be identified with the remnants of the free nobility, and were thus seen as constituting one noble order. By 1422, some of these nobles had achieved jurisdictional autonomy under the Emperor (‘immediacy’), and the corporation of free imperial knights was born. The other ministeriales that did not manage to receive the status of immediate vassals of the Emperor were gradually transformed into a titled nobility of free status: the Freiherren (Barons). By 1577, the Imperial Knights achieved the status of a noble corporate body within the empire: the \"corpus equestre\".\n\nIn the Peace of Westphalia, the privileges of the Imperial Knights were confirmed. The knights paid their own tax (voluntary) to the Emperor, possessed limited sovereignty (rights of legislation, taxation, civil jurisdiction, police, coin, tariff, hunt; certain forms of justice), and the \"ius reformandi\" (the right to establish an official Christian denomination in their territories). The knightly families had the right of house legislation, subject to the Emperor's approval, and so could control such things as the marriage of members and set the terms of the inheritance of family property. Imperial knights did not, however, have access to the Imperial Diet.\n\nConcerning the rights of Free Imperial Knights, Joseph Friederich von Ledersheim wrote in 1715 (De jure et privilegiis nobilium liberorum et immediatorum, Von des H. Röm. Reichs Freyen unmittelbahren Ritterschafft Discursus):\n\nSection XII: “…they possess forestry rights (ius forestae)…the right of hunting (ius venandi); the right to establish an archive (ius archivi, a right of sovereignty); the capacity to make laws (facultatem leges atque statuas condendi); to send ambassadors (ius mittendi legatos) not only to the Emperor but to other kings and princes and those of whatever status; the right to establish pacts (ius constituendi foederae), of conducting war (bellum movendi), of constructing fortifications and walling forts (fortalitia extruendi et arces muniendi); without the need for permission they are able to call and hold assizes….they acknowledge no court but that of the Emperor, even though they hold no fiefs of the Emperor; the privilege against new fiefs being erected, the right to arbitration (ius Austregarum) no less than other states of the Empire have, even if they hold certain mediate fiefs from another prince.”\n\nSection XV: “they enjoy the freedom of religion (pace religionis fruuntur) and therefore of establishing the Protestant Religion in churches and schools not only in their own hereditary territories but also in those fiefs held from another state…they are able whenever they wish to abolish and introduce either religion [Catholic or Protestant] if they hold the position of vogt over the possessions.”\n\nAll matters relating to the Imperial Knights' legal status as immediate vassals of the Emperor (house laws, debt, etc.) were managed by the Imperial Aulic Council.\n\nLacking access to the Imperial Diet, in 1650 the immediate knights organized themselves into three circles (\"Ritterkreise\"): the Franconian, Swabian, and Rhenish Circles. The Circles in turn were divided into cantons (\"Ritterkantone\"), each of which exercised a high degree of autonomy. Each canon possessed a directorate (\"Direktorium\"), led by a director (\"Ritterhauptmann\"), who was elected by life, and a council (\"Ritterräte\"), whose members were elected for fixed terms. The director and councilors were knights themselves, but the daily activities of the \"Direktorium\" were carried out by legal experts (\"Konsulenten\") and committees (\"Ausschüsse\") staffed by non-nobles.\n\nThe Knights as a group were governed by the General Directorate (\"Generaldirektorium\"). This exercised the \"jus retractus\", the right to buy back any land sold to a non-knight for the original price within three years, and the \"just collectandi\", the right to collect taxes for the upkeep of the knightly order, even on estates that had been sold to non-knights. The knights also had the right to tax their subjects directly, and also possessed the feudal rights to the \"corvée\" and the \"bannum\". The knights' reputation for heavy taxes (the maligned \"Rittersteuer\") and high judicial fines rendered them an anachronism in the eyes of imperial reformers.\n\nFrom 1577 on, the Imperial Knights met in a congress called the \"Generalkorrespondenztag\" (\"General Correspondence Diet\"), but the Circles and especially the Cantons became somewhat more important as their proximity meant that their interests were more closely aligned. Some immediate imperial fiefs, however, fell outside the structure of the Circles and their Cantons. The autonomous barony (\"Freiherrschaft\") of Haldenstein (in modern-day Switzerland) is an example.\n\nBy the late eighteenth century, the organization of the circles was as following:\n\nFranconian Circle (six cantons)\n\n\nSwabian Circle (five cantons)\n\n\nRhenish Circle (three cantons)\n\n\nWhether or not an individual, an institution, or an area was directly subject to the Emperor's authority defined the status of ‘immediate’ and ‘mediate’ subject of the Empire (reichsunmittelbar, reichsmittelbar). The distinction was not restricted to noble subjects of the Emperor; for example, a number of high officials in the imperial courts and the chancery were immediate, whether noble or not.\n\nArising from the feudal connection between tenure of land and jurisdiction, the status of immediate subject was further distinct from that of a state of the Empire. There were many immediate territories that were not states of the Empire, and there could be states that were not immediate. Examples of tiny immediate territories include villages (Gochsheim and Sennfeld near Schweinfurt), and some farms in Upper Swabia. The status of immediate subject of the Emperor could be held by an institution: the family of Thurn und Taxis held the imperial post as an immediate fief from the Emperor.\n\nMediate entities were subjects arranged under an intermediate jurisdiction between the entity itself and the Emperor.\n\nThe Imperial Knights were called very often to war by the emperor and therefore won significant influence in the Military and the Administration of the Empire and also over the more powerful nobles. Every Canton had its own \"Ritterhauptmann\" or Captain and kept detailed records of noble families and properties. The Imperial Knights were exempt from imperial taxes and were not required to quarter troops.\n\nOver time the title of Imperial Knight became a title of nobility rather than occupation. Many Imperial Knights even as early as the 16th century are more famous for their scholarly, artistic, or diplomatic work than their military achievements. During the demise of the Holy Roman Empire in 1803, the Knights' estates, which were generally enclaves, were seized by the great territorial states like Bavaria and Württemberg in the so-called \"Rittersturm\". In 1806, the Treaty of the Confederation of the Rhine gave the great states unilateral powers and the Imperial Knights' possessions, hitherto completely independent under the Emperor, formally became part of the territories of the higher rulers, by whose territory they were surrounded. They, for the most part, took the title of \"Freiherr\" and submitted themselves to their new lords.\n\nExact numbers of Free Imperial Knights are difficult to assess. It is often stated that there were 350 knightly families in all three Circles, owning around 1,500 estates (around 200 German square miles, or about 4,400 English square miles), with a total population of 350,000–450,000 inhabitants. These figures, however, are drawn from claims for compensation made after the upheavals of the French Revolution, and are more accurate for their description of geographical extent than of the total membership in the order. There were at least 400 families possessing land and many more of knightly rank that did not possess land, the so-called \"Personalisten\". With these latter included, the total number of knightly families rises to perhaps as high as 500. The discrepancies in the numbers stem from the list of membership for the Lower Rhenish canton being incomplete and from the absence of \"Personalisten\" from the claims of compensation.\n\nFrom early on, the membership of the corporation of Imperial Knights controlled access to admission to its Circles and Cantons. There were two kinds of membership possible within the order: personal and landed. Landed members were families enrolled in a Circle and Canton who owned an immediate fief, and thus were subordinate to the Emperor directly. The personal members (Personalisten) were non-landed members – regularly admitted – who had not yet acquired estates under knightly jurisdiction. As a result, the Personalisten were not included in claims made for compensation. Consequently, the numbers of landed families were probably closer to 400, with the Personalisten adding another 100, bringing the total number of knightly families to around 500 at the time of the corporation's dissolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "43999279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43999279", "title": "Institute of Competition Law", "text": "Institute of Competition Law\n\nInstitute of Competition Law (or Institut de droit de la concurrence) is a think tank focused on bringing together government regulators, private practitioners, and academics to study and shape antitrust policy on an international scale.\n\nThe Institute seeks to foster discussion about antitrust or competition law and law & economics by producing antitrust publications and hosting related conferences and events. The Institute's publications include the Concurrences journal, the e-Competitions Bulletin, and a series of books. To encourage written scholarship, the Institute holds an annual writing competition and honors authors for well-written pieces in the area of antitrust and law & economics at the Antitrust Writing Awards. In addition to written works, the Institute holds frequent events, including an annual conference and topical seminars, to discuss pressing issues in antitrust.\n\nAfter practicing competition law for many years, Nicolas Charbit founded the Institute in 2004 and currently serves as its CEO. The organization maintains offices in Paris, France and New York City.\n\nThe Institute seeks to create an independent, objective platform for the development and discussion of antitrust law, economics, and government regulation of competition. The Institute works to maintain a balanced perspective by implementing editorial boards and scientific or steering committees to oversee each of its publications and events. These boards and committees are made up of international competition law experts coming from the government, private practice, and academia. Such antitrust figures, including William Kovacic, Mario Monti, and Frédéric Jenny, serve on boards and committees for the Institute.\n\n\"Concurrences\" is a quarterly peer-reviewed journal that is released in print and online to discuss national and European Union competition laws. The journal serves as a written forum for individuals in academia and private practice to analyze antitrust issues. In addition, representatives of the Journal have interviewed influential figures in competition law, including François Hollande, Christine Lagarde, and Nicolas Sarkozy. Since its inception, Concurrences has published approximately 14,000 articles from 1,000 authors. One-quarter of these articles are printed in English, and the remaining three-quarters is printed in French because French is the official language of the European Union General Court. All articles are accompanied by an abstract in English.\n\nA Scientific Committee establishes strict editing and peer review requirements that an article must satisfy in order to be published. Concurrences also categorizes each article into one of ten different formats, which signals to the reader the type of article that he/she is reading, particularly whether an article is academic or opinion in nature. The ten article formats are as follows: (1) forewords (pure opinion pieces); (2) interviews of experts; (3) trends (several short articles on a current pressing issue in antitrust); (4) law & economics (short papers by economists); (5) doctrines (longer academic papers); (6) case summaries (short analyses of recent antitrust cases); (7) legal practice (pieces for in-house counsel); (8) international (papers devoted to international antitrust policy); (9) book reviews (of longer antitrust works); and (10) article reviews (of prominent antitrust articles). The Scientific Committee seeks to strike a balance between academic and opinion pieces and, thus, includes an article from most, if not all, of the ten formats in each issue.\n\nThe e-Competitions Bulletin is an online database of antitrust case summaries from 55 jurisdictions, including the United States, the European Union, and the United Kingdom. The goal of e-Competitions is to encourage direct comparison of antitrust case law and regulations across nations. Each summary includes the following: key words to make it more easily searchable, the relevant law or regulation at issue, and a link to the full, original decision in a case or the original wording of a regulation. The e-Competitions database contains over 10,000 case summaries with contributions from 2,500 authors, hailing from academia, private practice, corporations, and the government. e-Competitions has received contributions from some antitrust figures, such as Claus-Dieter Ehlermann (former DG COMP Director General), William Kolasky (Hughes Hubbard & Reed), and Ian Forrester (White & Case), and has partnered with international law firms and 14 university research centers. Like the Concurrences journal, e-Competitions is led by a diverse advisory board and editorial board.\n\nThe Institute publishes two series of books, the e-Competitions series and the Concurrences series. Each year, the e-Competitions series includes a Competition Digest and a Liber Amicorum, which is a book that honors a well-respected figure in the field of antitrust and consists of stories contributed by the individual's close friends and colleagues. The Concurrences series publishes multiple works, including a compilation of speeches and discussions from the Institute's conferences, the thesis chosen for the Concurrences Award, and books written by academics and attorneys in private practice.\n\nAfter publishing the Concurrences journal for 10 years, the Institute released “Why Antitrust?”, a book featuring 100 short articles by both experts and non-experts of antitrust and law & economics, including contributions from Joaquín Almunia (former EU Commissioner), Arnaud Montebourg (former Minister of the Economics), and Jean-Louis Debré (President of the Constitutional Council).\n\nThe Antitrust Writing Awards aim to encourage scholarship in the areas of antitrust and law & economics by honoring excellent written pieces in the field. Awards are given in two separate categories, academic articles and business articles. Articles qualify for the academic category if they have been published in an academic journal during the last year. Alternatively, articles are eligible for a business award if they have appeared in a professional magazine or newsletter in the previous year. For each category, academic and business, the Institute awards the best article in each of the following eight substantive areas: (1) general topics (including articles on antitrust procedure); (2) anticompetitive practices; (3) unilateral conduct; (4) mergers; (5) intellectual property; (6) private enforcement; (7) Asian antitrust; and (8) economics. The awards are announced at an annual gala, taking place the first night before the American Bar Association Annual Antitrust Spring Meeting.\n\nAll articles are subjected to an international peer review process and vetted by a steering committee before being considered for an award. The Institute assembles separate steering committees to review academic and business articles. The Academic Steering Committee is made up of 18 antitrust figures in academia, and the Business Steering Committee is composed of 22 in-house counsels with antitrust expertise. After each steering committee narrows down the pool of articles, the Board chooses the winners in both the academic and business categories. The Board includes some of the most distinguished individuals in the fields of antitrust and law & economics: Douglas Ginsburg, Andreas Mundt, Howard Shelanski, and Joshua Wright.\n\nThe Institute hosts a series of conferences and events each year to encourage scholars, regulators, and practitioners to discuss antitrust policy in person. The biggest event put on by the Institute is its annual conference called New Frontiers of Antitrust. The event is held in Paris at the National Assembly or the Ministry of Economics with the EU Commissioner delivering the opening speech. Regular speakers include Wouter Wills (EU Hearing Officer), William Kovacic (George Washington University), Bruno Lasserre (Autorité de la concurrence), and Laurence Idot (University Panthéon-Sorbonne). The Institute also organizes events specifically to enlighten in-house counsel about antitrust-related topics. To that end, the Institute holds 10 seminars on the topic of industrial economics and 10 seminars on antitrust law procedures over the course of a year. The Institute also arranges for dinners where government enforcers, private practitioners, and in-house counsel can discuss antitrust issues.\n"}
{"id": "28934448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28934448", "title": "International child abduction in the United States", "text": "International child abduction in the United States\n\nAs a result of its high level of immigration and emigration and its status as common source and destination for a large amount of international travel the United States has more incoming and outgoing international child abductions per year than any other country. To address this issue the United States played an active role in the drafting of the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction (commonly referred to as the \"Hague Abduction Convention\" or simply the \"Abduction Convention\".) Although the United States was one of the first nations to sign the Convention in 1981 the Convention did not enter into force for the US until 1988 with the enactment by Congress of the International Child Abduction Remedies Act which translated the Convention into US law.\n\nUnder the Hague Abduction Convention the United States is required to fulfill many requirements designed to protect children from the harmful effects of international child abduction. Domestic and foreign parents and attorneys have criticized the United States for its alleged failures to adequately fulfill these obligations on behalf of foreign and domestic families and children and in violation of international law.\n\nThe law of the United States consists of many levels of codified and uncodified forms of law, of which the most important is the United States Constitution, the foundation of the federal government of the United States. The Constitution sets out the boundaries of federal law, which consists of constitutional acts of Congress, constitutional treaties ratified by Congress, constitutional regulations promulgated by the executive branch, and case law originating from the federal judiciary.\n\nThe Constitution and federal law are the supreme law of the land, thus preempting conflicting state and territorial laws in the fifty U.S. states and in the territories. However, the scope of federal preemption is limited, because the scope of federal power is itself rather limited. In the unique dual-sovereign system of American federalism. Most U.S. law (especially the actual \"living law\" of contract, tort, criminal, and family law experienced by the majority of citizens on a day-to-day basis) consists primarily of state law, which can and does vary greatly from one state to the next.\n\nAt both the federal and state levels, the law of the United States was originally derived largely from the common law system of English law, which was in force at the time of the Revolutionary War. However, U.S. law has since diverged greatly from its English ancestor both in terms of substance and procedure, and has incorporated a number of civil law innovations.\n\nStates are separate sovereigns with their own state constitutions, state governments, and state courts (including state supreme courts). They retain plenary power to make laws covering anything not preempted by the federal Constitution, federal statutes, or international treaties ratified by the federal Senate. Normally, state supreme courts are the final interpreters of state constitutions and state law, unless their interpretation itself presents a federal issue, in which case a decision may be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court by way of a petition for writ of certiorari.\n\nIn 1922, the Court applied the Supremacy Clause to international treaties, holding in the case of \"Missouri v. Holland\", 252 U.S. 416 (1920), that the Federal government's ability to make treaties is supreme over any State concerns that such treaties might abrogate states' rights arising under the Tenth Amendment.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention is a multilateral treaty (in force since 1 December 1983) aimed at providing an expeditious method to return children who are victim of international child abduction. The Convention was drafted to “to secure the prompt return of children wrongfully removed to or retained in any Contracting State\" diverse from their country of habitual residence, and \"ensure that rights of custody and of access under the law of one Contracting State are effectively respected in the other Contracting States.”\n\nAlthough the United States was one of the first nations to sign the Convention in 1981 the Convention did not enter into force for the United States until 1988 with the ratification of the treaty and enactment by Congress of the International Child Abduction Remedies Act which translated the Convention into US law. This was 5 years after the entry into force of the treaty.\n\nThe United States has two separate court systems, a Federal court system and a State court system. Both types of courts have authority to hear a Hague Abduction Convention case, as established by the International Child Abduction Remedies Act. It is up to the parents of abducted children and their attorneys to decide whether to file a petition for return in State or Federal court.\n\nAlthough the exact implementation varies by state (also because states are free to adopt their own organizational scheme for judicial matters), trial courts are the general court of first instance to hear a Convention case within the State court system.\n\nSince the enactment of the ICARA and simultaneous ratification of the treaty by the United States Congress allowed it to enter into force in 1988, a number of important, and precedent setting decisions have been made on the Hague Convention's interpretation within the United States by federal courts.\n\nThe first Hague Abduction Convention case to be considered by the United States Supreme Court revolved around a whether or not a child from Chile was \"wrongfully removed,\" as understood by the Convention, when a \"ne exeat\" order existing forbidding the custodial parent from removing the child from the country. The Court found broad acceptance for the view that a \"ne exeat\" right, or a right to prevent a child's removal from his country of residence, is roughly equal to \"joint custody\" and is, thus, a \"right of custody.\" Accordingly, when the child was removed from Chile in violation of Mr. Abbott's \"ne exeat\" right, the child was \"wrongfully removed\" within the meaning of the Hague Convention.\n\nThe US State department publishes yearly reports are known as the Hague Abduction Convention Compliance Reports (or: Compliance Reports) in which statistics are presented on child abduction. The publication is a requirement by the US Congress and treats both compliance with the convention by member states and information on child abduction cases in non-member states. The reports highlight countries that they are non-compliant with the convention or exhibit a \"pattern of noncompliance.\" Since 1999, Mexico has been cited every year as being non-compliant or exhibiting \"patterns of noncompliance\". The reports form the basis for statistics on the United States and international child abduction.\n\nAn overview about the number of cases involved is shown in the Table below. The table is followed by a country-specific evaluation of the abduction status in relation to the United States. \nOnly Hong Kong, Macau, Israel, Thailand and Sri Lanka, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan are contracting states to the Child Abduction Convention. Of these, Israel has been named several years as having \"enforcement problems\" in the complicance reports.\n\nJapan is -with India- one of only two non-contracting states to the convention to rank as one of the top ten destination countries for the abduction of American children. Moreover, there is a year by year increase in abduction cases. In 2009, 73 outstanding cases involving 104 children who have been abducted to or retained in Japan by parents were reported. An additional 29 cases involve American parties in Japan with one parent denied access to their child. In the 2010 report 79 child abduction cases were mentioned involving 100 children. A State Department official stated in 2008 that no child has ever been returned to the United States from Japan as a result of diplomatic or legal means The official stated he knew of only three cases where children have returned to America, two involving reconciliation of parents, and one in which a 15-year-old child escaped to the American embassy.\n\nIndia is not a signatory of the Hague Abduction Convention and India does not consider international child abduction a crime. Indian courts rarely recognize U.S. custody orders, preferring to exert their own jurisdiction in rulings that tend to favor the parent who wants to keep the child in India. In the rare scenario that a case is resolved, it is usually due to an agreement between the parents, rather than the result of court orders or arrest warrants.\n\nCultural factors often impact child custody decisions in India. For example, Indian courts rarely grant custody to a parent residing outside of India, even if both the child and abducting parent are American citizens. Additionally, the courts tend to favor mothers when determining custody.\n\nIndia does require the signature of both parents for an Indian passport to be issued to children younger than 18 years. India also requires exit permits for children.\n\nSaudi Arabia is not a signatory of the Hague Abduction Convention nor are there any international or bilateral treaties in force between Saudi Arabia and the United States dealing with international parental child abduction.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia, child custody is based on Islamic law. The primary concern of Saudi courts in deciding child custody cases is that the child be raised in accordance with the Islamic faith. Most custody disputes in Saudi Arabia are handled by the Islamic Sharia courts. In rare cases, the Board of Grievances, the most senior non-Sharia court, has ruled on custody disputes.\n\nSaudi courts generally do not award custody of children to non-Saudi women. If the mother is an Arab Muslim, judges will usually not grant her custody of children unless she is residing in Saudi Arabia, or the father is not a Muslim. All Saudi citizens are considered to be Muslim.\n\nSince Saudi women are prohibited from marrying non-Muslims, custody disputes between a Saudi mother and American father would be heard by the Sharia court, which would usually apply Islamic rules of custody. If the mother wins custody, the father is usually granted visitation rights. According to Saudi law, a child whose mother is Saudi and father is non-Saudi is not granted Saudi citizenship. However, even if an American father wins custody of his children, he may still need permission from the Saudi mother to remove the children from Saudi Arabia.\n\nNormally, under Sharia law, a mother can maintain custody of her male children until the age of nine, and female children until age seven. In practice the courts favor keeping children within a strict Islamic environment. Sharia court judges have broad discretion in custody cases and often make exceptions to these general guidelines.\n\nEven when a mother who is residing in Saudi Arabia is granted physical custody of children, the father maintains legal custody and has the right to determine where the children live and travel. In many cases, the father has been able to assume legal custody of children against the wishes of the mother when she is unable or unwilling to meet certain conditions set by law for her to maintain her custodial rights. For example, if the mother moves to another country, the father is entitled to have custody. A court can sever a mother's custody if it determines that the mother is incapable of safeguarding the child or of bringing the child up in accordance with the appropriate religious standards. The mother can lose custody by remarrying a non-Muslim, or by residing in a home with non-relatives. Sharia law allows custody of children to be awarded to the closest male relative of a Saudi father in the case of death or imprisonment of the father, even if the Saudi father has made clear his wish that the children's mother have full custody.\n\nCustody orders and judgments of foreign courts are generally not enforceable in Saudi Arabia. Courts in Saudi Arabia will not enforce U.S. court decrees ordering a parent in Saudi Arabia to pay child support.\n\nWomen entering Saudi Arabia with the intent of visiting their children may do so only with the written permission of the father of the children. The father must file a \"statement of no objection\" with the Saudi Ministry of Interior before the mother will be granted a visa to enter the Kingdom. This includes Muslim fathers who are non-Saudi nationals. If the father refuses to sponsor the mother, or to authorize a child’s travel to another country, there is little that can be done to effect a visit. The U.S. Embassy and Consulates General are not able to help American parents to obtain visas to Saudi Arabia without a no-objection letter. Neither the U.S. State Department nor the U.S. Mission in Saudi Arabia may serve as a woman's sponsor. Women visitors are required to be met by their sponsor upon arrival in Saudi Arabia.\n\nIf a non-Saudi father wants to enter the Kingdom to visit his children, he can do so by applying for a Saudi visa with proof that his children are living in Saudi Arabia. Saudi authorities may consult with the mother if she is Saudi, who may be able to prevent issuance of the visa.\n\nSome American Muslim parents have considered traveling to Saudi Arabia on Umrah (religious pilgrimage to Mecca) as a means to visit their children. However, issuance of an Umrah visa does not guarantee that a parent will be permitted to see his or her children once in the Kingdom. If a woman is not divorced, the Saudi Embassy has the right to ask for her husband's permission for another family member (e.g. son) to act as the mother's Mahram. If the mother is divorced, the Saudi Embassy will ask to see the divorce certificate before granting the Umrah visa. Women married to Saudis should keep in mind that even when they enter the Kingdom on an Umrah visa, they would need their Saudi husband's permission to depart the country.\n\nPersons who obtain a visa for business or religious visits (Hajj and Umrah) with the intention of visiting their children may face legal penalties including detention and/or deportation. While visitor visas are issued for approved tour groups following organized itineraries, these visitors are not permitted to travel outside the set itinerary.\n\nBefore traveling to Saudi Arabia to visit their children, women should consider whether they obtained a complete Islamic declaration of divorce from the Sharia court in Saudi Arabia. Secular, American divorce orders are not recognized by the Sharia courts. Although an Islamic divorce can be obtained from several mosques within the U.S., it has been the experience of several divorced spouses in the U.S. that the Sharia courts in Saudi Arabia will not recognize orders originating from an American mosque. The purpose of obtaining a Sharia declaration is to establish the legal personal status of the mother prior to traveling to the Kingdom. If an American woman is considered to still be married, the \"husband\" can prohibit the woman from departing Saudi Arabia.\n\nExit visas are required to leave Saudi Arabia. The U.S. Embassy or Consulates General cannot obtain exit visas for American citizens. Women must have permission from their husband or father to exit Saudi Arabia. The government of Saudi Arabia has been known to issue international arrest warrants against women who have taken their children from Saudi Arabia without the father's permission.\n\nMost countries in Europe have are contracting parties to the Hague Abduction Convention, including all countries of the European Union. Most of these countries have never been mentioned in the compliance reports. Germany, Greece, Poland and Switzerland are notable exceptions.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Germany and the United States on December 1, 1990. According to the [compliance reports, 71 children abducted from the United States to Germany in 2009 and 20 children abducted from Germany to the United States during the same period. Between 1999 and 2010 the reports have cited Germany as a \"country of concern,\" having \"enforcement problems,\" being \"not fully compliant\" or \"demonstrated patterns of noncompliance\" almost every year.\n\nThe Hague Convention came into force between the United States and Greece on June 1, 1993. Greece has been cited in the compliance Reports almost every year as either a \"Country of Concern,\" having \"Enforcement Problems,\" or \"Demonstrating Patterns of Noncompliance.\"\n\nInstitutionally, the legal framework in Greece seems to support the necessary mechanisms for the Convention to function effectively. The Convention has force of law and has primacy over domestic law; first instance courts can hear Convention cases under expedited procedures (provisional or “emergency” measures), enforcement mechanisms exist and the Greek Central Authority will provide pro-bono legal assistance to victimized parents during Hague proceedings before the appropriate court in Greece.\nThe Hague Abduction Convention came into force between the United States and Poland on November 11, 1992. Poland has been cited in the compliance Reports for every year from 2000 to 2008 as either a \"country of concern,\" having \"enforcement problems\" or \"demonstrating patterns of noncompliance\" with the Hague Abduction Convention resulting in an ongoing dialogue between the Polish Consul General and the Office of Children's Issues Director in Washington, D.C. and U.S. Embassy officials and Ministry of Justice officials in Warsaw. Several high-level meetings between U.S. Embassy Warsaw and the Polish Ministry of Justice have been held where Ministry representatives indicated an intent to address many of these compliance issues and improve Poland’s Convention performance. Officials from the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Embassy in Poland have raised compliance issues and individual abduction cases with high-ranking officials from the Polish Government through diplomatic notes, formal demarches, and communications with the Polish Central Authority with former assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs Maura Harty raising the issue during bilateral meetings with her Polish counterpart.\n\nAmong the issues cited in the Compliance Reports, there is no specific legislation that implements the Convention in Poland. Unless there is a voluntary return, children normally remain in Poland during the entire Hague process, which often takes years. There is a perception that there is a gender bias in favor of mothers when they are abducting parents. Even though enforcement legislation has been passed, there appears to be reluctance on the part of officials to follow through with enforcement. A faulty translation into Polish of Article 13 of the Convention which radically lowers the standard for refusing returns by saying that return can be denied if it would put the child in an \"unfavorable\" rather than an \"intolerable\" situation that some courts still use four years after the Ministry of Justice agreed in 1999 to distribute an accurate translation. Furthermore, Polish law does not permit courts to consider resources for child welfare and protection in the country of habitual residence when asked to consider the grave risk defense.\n\nPolish authorities are often unable to locate the children and their abductors after courts ordered the return of a child. Law enforcement in Poland is limited by the fact that neither parental abduction nor the failure to comply with a Convention return order is a criminal offense in Poland. Consequently, Polish authorities have fewer investigative resources available to locate children and their abducting parents. The lack of an adequate domestic statutory framework with enforcement mechanisms (e.g., a parent who becomes a fugitive to avoid complying with a final return judgment does not commit a \"crime\"—and therefore cannot be the subject of a fugitive warrant—unless the parent has been stripped of parental rights.)\n\nRefusing to obey an order seems to carry few negative consequences for the taking parent. In some instances, the court rewarded the taking parent who refused to comply with a court order by ultimately ruling that, because so much time had elapsed, it was not in the child's best interests to be returned after all.\n\nEven in cases where the left-behind parent has provided specific information about where the child is located, the ability of the Polish authorities to verify it is ineffective. Further, once a child is located, there does not appear to be any mechanism to ensure that abducting parents cannot further abscond or conceal the child's whereabouts. This is largely due to the fact that international parental child abduction is merely a civil offense in Poland.\n\nCourts routinely order psychological evaluations and home studies. In one U.S. case an abducting parent in hiding was able to protest a return order in court while also collecting child support payments from the government. This situation indicates that institutionally there is a disturbing lack of coordination among local law enforcement, the Polish Central Authority, and social welfare agencies.\n\nThe Polish procedure does limit the number of courts that can hear Hague cases in an attempt to allow judges to develop Hague expertise and the Polish Central Authority will provide pro bono legal assistance for victim parents during Hague proceedings before the appropriate court in Poland.\nSwitzerland has been frequently cited in the compliance reports as either a \"Country of Concern,\" having \"Enforcement Problems,\" or \"Demonstrating Patterns of Noncompliance.\" In the 2010 report it was noted that: \"delays in processing and enforcement often go on for weeks or months years, Swiss courts often treat Convention cases as custody decisions, invoking the child's “best interests” as a reason for denying return, and performing merits-based custody assessments, Swiss courts - up to and including Switzerland's highest court, often show bias toward the abducting parent, especially when the taking parent is the mother\". High-level Swiss officials have defended this practice citing the “special relationship” between mothers and young children as influencing its decision to uphold the lower court's denial of the left-behind parent's application for return of an abducted child to the United States. The report also observed that Swiss authorities are reluctant to actively enforce orders granting return to the United States or access to the child by the left-behind parent. Law enforcement has made only cursory efforts to locate taking parent and abducted children.\n\nAccording to the statistics in the US Department of State's Compliance Reports, as of 2010, 721 out of 1194, or 60%, of the children abducted from the United States to a Hague Convention partner were taken to Latin America with Mexico alone accounting for 474 or 40%.\n\nThe Child Abduction Convention entered into force between Brazil with the United States in 2003. The US Department of State denoted Brazil as a country demonstrating \"patterns of noncompliance\" with the Hague Abduction Convention in 2008 and 2009. In 2010 the status of Brazil's compliance was downgraded to that of \"non-compliant.\" According to a 2009 New York Times report, there were at the time around fifty unsolved Convention cases for children abducted from the United States to Brazil. The report states that Brazil has a history of non-compliance, and the Brazilian judiciary has a general inability to adjudicate a final and unappealable decision in Convention cases.\n\nThe subject of child abduction between the United States and Brazil received sustained media attention during 2009 and early 2010 as a result of the Goldman child abduction case. US Congress introduced H.R. 2702, legislation to suspend Brazil's Generalized System of Preferences trading benefit. The case was also discussed on the US House of Representatives floor with a statement from Congressman Chris Smith (Republican, New Jersey), a staunch supporter of David Goldman, a New Jersey resident; U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton treated the case as a diplomatic issue of Brazil's obligations under the Hague Convention. After nearly six years of litigation in Brazil, U.S. Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey placed a hold on a trade bill which allows certain countries, including Brazil, to export certain products to the United States duty-free. Days later, by a decision of Brazil's Supreme Court, Sean was handed over to his father on December 24, 2009.\n\nChile signed the Hague Abduction Convention in 1994 and it entered into force with the United States in the same year. The US Department of State has denoted Chile as a country demonstrating \"patterns of noncompliance\" or a \"not fully compliant\" with the Hague Abduction Convention every year during the five period between 2005 and 2009 for its judicial Performance. \nChilean courts delay Convention cases and often improperly treat them as child custody decisions, citing the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. U.S. parents often experience bias by the courts in favor of Chilean parents, especially Chilean mothers. In addition, it is customary in Chilean courts to order psychological or social evaluations in all cases involving minor children, regardless of whether there is evidence of possible risk to the child in being returned to his or her country of habitual residence. Because the Hague Convention focuses on returning a child to his or her country of habitual residence, the United States Central Authority takes the view that psychological evaluations are unnecessary, and cause inappropriate delays in processing cases, if there is no evidence of risk to the child should the court order the child’s return.\n\nAnother trend is for Chilean courts to deny Convention applications upon finding that the child is well settled in the new environment. This result, which could be avoided if Chilean courts handled Convention cases more expeditiously, leaves the victim parent with the much less desirable option of filing an application under the Convention for mere access to the child, or for visitation, and even these applications in some cases have not resulted in contact between the left behind family and the child. In 2008, a Chilean court ordered a scheduled access visit by the LBP, and the left behind parent purchased and confirmed his plane ticket and accommodations for the trip. Hours before the parent was scheduled to board the plane for Chile, the Chilean Central Authority notified him that the Chilean judge had suspended the scheduled visitation. In April 2008, the Chilean Central Authority sponsored a seminar on the Convention and its application in Chile, including topics such as the emotional impact of international child abduction on children and parents, and the role of “network judges” in promoting the correct application of the Convention in Chile. Several months after the seminar, the Chilean Supreme Court designated a family court judge to serve as Chile’s network judge for Convention cases.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Conventionentered into force in Colombia in 1996. According to the Convention Compliance Reports, Colombia ranks as one of the top ten destinations for the abduction of children from the United States. It has also been cited several times as a country demonstrating \"patterns of noncompliance,\" being totally \"noncompliant\" and a \"country of concern\". In cases involving the Abduction Convention, recent legislation by the Colombian Congress has placed jurisdiction with the family courts. In remote areas of the country where there are no family courts, Hague Convention cases are heard by civil court circuit judges. While Colombian courts can recognize or enforce U.S. custody orders, they generally refuse to do so and Colombian court orders prevail over foreign court orders. Colombian courts favor parents of Colombian nationality and it is very rare for a court in Colombia to grant custody to a parent residing in the U.S. when there is a parent residing in Colombia.\n\nInternational parental abduction is covered in the Colombian Penal Code as kidnapping, with circumstances that can increase or reduce the punishment. Colombia does not consider international parental kidnapping as an extraditable offense.\n\nIn contrast to United States requirements, a Colombian passport for a minor child can be obtained with only one parent's consent, though Colombia restricts the departure of Colombian children from the country when they are not in the company of both parents. Although this prevents misuse of a Colombian passport to abduct children from Colombia it facilitates abductions from countries like the United States who have no exit controls. If a parent wishes to prevent the issuance of a Colombian passport to their minor child, they must submit a request to the Ministerio de la Proteccion Social, Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF). If the ICBF concurs with the parent's request, it will notify the Colombian passport office and Colombian Embassies and Consulates to place a hold on the issuance of a passport to the minor child. Parents may only submit a request through ICBF, not through a Colombian Embassy or Consulate.\n\nCosta Rica has not ratified the Hague Abduction Convention and does not allow interstate enforcement of custody and visitation orders. According to the US Department of state, Costa Rica is also well known to accept refugee applications from those mothers/fathers fleeing U.S. justice allowing abducting parents to claim some sort of legal problem with the US and seek asylum in Costa Rica.\n\nAll children born in Costa Rica acquire Costa Rican citizenship at birth and, to prevent international child abduction, may only depart the country upon presentation of an exit permit issued by immigration authorities.\n\nIn December 1997, the U.S. State Department targeted diplomatic entreaties at eight countries whose accession to the Hague Abduction Convention the Department judged would be most useful and effective to the United States, one of these was the Dominican Republic.\n\nThe Dominican Republic signed and ratified the Abduction Convention in 2004 and it entered into force with the United States in 2007. Since the treaty went into effect the Dominican Republic ranks in the top ten list of countries that are the source and destination of abducted children between the United States.\n\nIn their 2010 Compliance Report, the State Department added an outgoing child abduction case with the Dominican Republic to their new \"Notable Cases\" section. They noted the Dominican Republic's Central authority evinced an \"incorrect understanding of various articles of the Convention\" and that requests for clarification from their Central Authority did not receive any substantive responses.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Ecuador and the United States on March 1, 1992. Over the years Ecuador has been cited in a number of Compliance Reports as a \"noncompliant\" country or a country demonstrating a \"pattern of noncompliance.\" In the year period covered by the 2010 Report there were 24 children abducted from the U.S. to Ecuador and 7 children abducted from Ecuador to the U.S.\n\nEcuador has demonstrated noncompliance both in its judicial performance and its Central Authority performance. Convention case hearings are excessively delayed, in violation of the Convention’s principle of\npromptly returning children to their habitual country of residence. In addition, courts treat cases as custody decisions, rather than a determination of the appropriate jurisdiction to decide custody. Having delayed proceedings themselves, the courts of Ecuador have been known to determine that, due to the delay, children have resettled in their new environment.\n\nEfforts of the United States to communicate about cases with the Ecuadorian Central Authority (ECA) for the Abduction Convention have not been effective with ECA consistently being unresponsive to the US Central Authority's (USCA) requests for case updates and copies of court rulings. The USCA is not aware of any efforts by the ECA to train judges about the Convention.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Honduras and the United States in 1994. Honduras is the only country to be listed in every singled Compliance Report as non-compliant since the reports began in 1999. The implementation of the Hague Convention in Honduras is broken on every level. It has an executive branch and legislature that is, at various times, unsure if it has actually signed the Convention. Its Central Authority sometimes does not exist at all and when it is reestablished does not fulfill any of its roles and is chronically understaffed. The judiciary demonstrates a complete lack of understanding of the treaty and, even in the rare case that a return order is issued, it is not enforced.\n\nIn 11 years of reporting on Convention compliance in Honduras there has not been a single case where a return was judicially ordered and enforced. Like with Mexico, would be abductors of children to Honduras can legally take children across the southern land border without the permission of the other parent or even a passport.\n\nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Mexico and the United States in 1991. Mexico is the number one destination for international child abductions from the United States and the United States is the number one destination for children abducted from Mexico. The U.S. State Department reports that 65% of all outgoing international parental abductions from the United States to Hague Convention countries are to Mexico, and that 41% of all incoming international parental abductions to the United States are from Mexico. Mexico is the only country that has been found to be \"Noncompliant, \"Not Fully Compliant\" or having a \"Pattern of Noncompliance\" in every single Compliance Report compiled by the US Department of State since they began in 2001.\n\nOne of the primary roadblocks to Mexico's successful implementation of the Hague Abduction Convention is its inability to locate children. This issue has been cited numerous times in the US State Department's annual Compliance Reports. In some cases, the US State Department has reported providing Mexican authorities with detailed information on the whereabouts of abducted children including the exact address where they are living but Mexican authorities still report an inability to locate the children. In late 2009 the Mexican Central Authority gave a presentation at an international symposium on international child abduction where they cited improvements in this area as a result of turning over the responsibility of locating children to the Mexican Federal Police (AFI), rather than exclusively using Interpol who has no authority and must request the involvement of Mexican law enforcement to take any real measures in Mexico.\n\nOf particular relevance to Hague Convention litigation in Mexico is the Mexican Amparo, which translates to \"protection\" or \"help.\" It is a Mexican legal procedure to protect constitutional rights that was incorporated into the 1847 national constitution. Mexico's \"recurso de amparo\" is found in Articles 103 and 107 of the Mexican Constitution Any Mexican citizen can file an amparo claiming that a Mexican authority is violating their constitutional rights. Federal District courts are available in every state in Mexico and always have secretaries available to receive an Amparo. In cases of international child abduction an amparo can be filed at any point and effectively blocks progression of legal procedures until it has been heard, often many months, or even years later. The decision in an Amparo trial can also be further appealed and multiple amparos may be filed during legal proceedings under the Hague Convention.\n\nCorruption is an intrinsic part of the problem with international child abduction in Mexico and affects every other aspect of the issue from locating children and judicial decisions to enforcing court orders for repatriation in the rare cases where the obstacles of locating children and judicial noncompliance have been overcome.\n\nThere is an Extradition Treaty between the United States of America and the United Mexican States (see 31 U.S.T. 5061) that, like many such treaties, provides for the extradition of a party who has been charged with or found guilty of an offense committed in one country. An offense is extraditable if it is a crime in both countries and punishable by incarceration for a period of one year or more. In theory this allows for the extradition of child abductors who have absconded to Mexico as child abduction is a federal crime there. In practice, US authorities rarely request extradition in preference of Hague Convention litigation, despite Mexico's gross noncompliance with the Convention and, even when they do, Mexico is not bound to deliver up its nationals and will frequently refuse to do so across the board, particularly in child abduction cases.\n\nAdditionally U.S.–Mexico border has the highest number of both legal and illegal crossings of any land border in the world. Although the border is guarded on the United States' side by more than seventeen thousand border patrol agents, they only have \"effective control\" of less than 700 miles of the 1,954 mile border. In terms of international child abduction from the US into Mexico specifically, the problem of poor border security in general is compounded by the fact the United States does not have exit controls; American children may be taken across the southern border of the United States without having the necessary documentation to get back into the country and there is no accounting for children taken across the border into Mexico, leading to thousands of missing children posters with the words \"may have traveled to Mexico\" on them.\n\nPanama’s performance in implementing the Convention was previously cited as “non-compliant”. However, progress has been noted in Panama’s handling of its Convention responsibilities during the 2005 reporting period and the United States presently considers Panama to be “not fully compliant” in its implementation of the Convention. \nThe Hague Abduction Convention entered into force between Venezuela and the United States at the start of 1997. According to the compliance Reports, Venezuela was cited as a country \"non-compliant\" with the Hague Convention in 2006 and as demonstrating \"patterns of noncompliance\" in 2008 and 2009. The Venezuelan Central Authority typically failed to be responsive to inquiries regarding abduction cases by the United States Department of State, the US Embassy in Caracas, or victimized parents. Venezuelan judges often misinterpret return and access applications under the Convention as a request for them to determine custody or visitation rights and have been observed to have a nationalistic bias in favor of the Venezuelan parent.\n\nIn addition, despite return orders issued by lower courts, the abducting parents can and do take advantage of prolonged appeals processes to significantly delay the return of children. These delays are particularly pronounced in cases in which the left-behind parent can not afford to retain a private attorney. Without the use of a private attorney, cases take very long.\n\nThe United States government generally, and the U.S. Department of State specifically, have been subject to sustained criticism for not doing enough to prevent the abduction of American children or support American parents of internationally abducted children in their recovery efforts. They have also been criticized for, conversely, catering to foreign countries and parents with abducted children taken to the United States, and not doing enough to facilitate the recovery efforts of foreign parents.\n\nAmerican parents complain that they are essentially alone in dealing with foreign courts and legal systems. The US State Department has a virtual monopoly on information in such cases, but refuses to act as a vigorous advocate for left-behind American parents while also preventing the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children or anyone else from playing that role. State Department attorney Thomas Johnson remarked that when he reminded one senior State Department official with Child Abduction Convention responsibilities that she works for the American people, her immediate response was: \"I don’t work for the American people; I work for the Secretary of State\", demonstrating the Department’s inherent conflict of interest (i.e., a desire to maintain \"good\" bilateral foreign relations for their own sake that overrides assertive and effective advocacy on behalf of American citizens).\n\nThe journalist Joel Mowbray wrote the book \"Dangerous Diplomacy\" on the role and culture of the US State Department. Mowbray's second chapter in \"Dangerous Diplomacy\", titled \"Cold Shoulder: State's Smallest Victim's\", is dedicated to an analysis of the assistance provided to American parents left in the wake of an international child abduction. It describes State's overriding desire to appease foreign governments and maintain \"good relations\" as having a conflict of interest between their responsibility to internationally abducted children as the designated United States Central Authority under the Hague Convention. This inherent conflict of interest between the two roles is magnified by what the book defines as the \"culture of State\", a culture characterized by extreme moral relativism, valuing process over substance and misplaced priorities that reward failures by promotions or high paying jobs \"consulting\" for the foreign government of the country that they'd previously been paid to advocate America's interests in.\n\n\n\"..the current system to secure the return of these abducted American children does not work and will not work unless it is changed profoundly. I don't doubt the sincerity or the dedication of the professionals in the State Department who have lead responsibility for this problem, but they do not have the tools and powers to do their job effectively. And unless Congress gives them the power and the tools we will be back here in five years or 10 years with another set of hearings, another group of parents with broken hearts and devastated dreams, and we will be making the same statements we are making today.\"\n\n\"the principal reason other nations, whether they are signatories to the Hague Convention or not, refuse to cooperate with the United States in returning abducted American children is that there are no real consequences for failing to do so.\"\n\n\"Let me be blunt, a diplomatic request for which there are no consequences for refusal is just a sophisticated version of begging. And there are no consequences today for Brazil or any other nation which refuses to return American children.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13507972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13507972", "title": "Interregnum of World Chess Champions", "text": "Interregnum of World Chess Champions\n\nThe Interregnum of World Chess Champions was the period between March 24, 1946 (the date of Alexander Alekhine's death) and May 17, 1948 (when Mikhail Botvinnik won a special championship tournament).\n\nWhen Alekhine suddenly died in 1946, the title of World Chess Champion became vacant for the first time in its 60-year history. Since the 19th century, the title was decided by matches between the current champion and a challenger, who by winning would become the new champion. Alekhine died holding the title, leaving no obvious method for a new player to succeed him.\n\nThe situation was very confused, with many respected players and commentators offering different solutions, for example: Max Euwe should be declared champion because he was the last player to win a championship match; Mikhail Botvinnik should be declared champion because Alekhine had accepted a challenge from Botvinnik before his death; or Euwe should play a match for the title against Botvinnik. FIDE, the international chess federation, found it very difficult to organize the early discussions on how to resolve the \"interregnum\" because problems with money and travel so soon after the end of World War II prevented many countries from sending representatives – most notably the Soviet Union. The shortage of clear information resulted in otherwise responsible magazines publishing rumors and speculation, which only made the situation more confused.\n\nFIDE's discussions mainly favored: A round-robin tournament involving the world's top players, to determine who would be the new World Champion (their first proposal in July 1946 nominated Euwe, Botvinnik, Paul Keres, Vasily Smyslov, Reuben Fine, Samuel Reshevsky and one of the winners of the Groningen and Prague tournaments to be held later in 1946). (Most of these were participants in the 1938 AVRO tournament.) Afterwards, a match for the title every 3 years after that, the challenger being selected by a series of tournaments. But some writers suggest that at the 1947 FIDE congress, Euwe was declared World Champion on a vote that took place just before the Soviet Union's delegates arrived, and the Soviet Union immediately supported the proposal for a World Championship Tournament – so Euwe was deposed after a two-hour \"reign\" as World Champion. Earlier in 1947 Botvinnik had written an article in which he stated the need to prevent champions from avoiding the strongest challengers and to make sure that the financial arrangements were satisfactory for both players and for whoever was hosting the events; he supported the proposal that the vacant world championship should be filled by the winner of a multi-round all-play-all tournament; and proposed a system for selecting future challengers that was very like FIDE's 1946 proposals and the system that operated from 1948 to 1963. The proposed tournament was very similar in concept to the 1938 AVRO tournament, whose purpose had been to decide who should challenge Alekhine for the title.\n\nThe World Championship Tournament took place in 1948, the first half in The Hague and the second in Moscow. Botvinnik won by scoring 14 points out of 20 and making a plus score against each of the other players; in fact he clinched first place some days before the last round ended on \nMay 17, 1948. Thus he became the new world champion and brought the \"interregnum\" to an end. Competitions for the World Chess Championship would be held exclusively under FIDE's auspices for the next 45 years.\n\nThe Interregnum was a unique period in modern chess history. Although there were gaps in the chain of succession of the title when a new champion did not play against the old one (e.g. Anatoly Karpov after Bobby Fischer), the Interregnum currently remains the only period in the history of modern chess in which there was no World Champion.\n\nThere was a similar interregnum of the Women's World Chess Championship, between Vera Menchik's death in 1944 and Lyudmila Rudenko winning the championship in 1950. \n\n"}
{"id": "32650484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32650484", "title": "Judicial review in New Zealand", "text": "Judicial review in New Zealand\n\nJudicial review, under which executive actions of the Government are subject to review, and possible invalidation, is used in New Zealand. Judicial review is carried out by a judge of the High Court of New Zealand. Legislative action is not justiciable in the High Court under New Zealand's Westminster constitutional arrangements; Parliament remains supreme in law.\n\nThe Judicature Act 1908 and its amendments, especially the Judicature Amendment Act 1972, govern the process of judicial review.\n\nPart 1 of that the Judicature Amendment Act 1972 was re-enacted by Parliament via the Judicial Review Procedure Act 2016.\n\nIt states in Section 3:\n'3 Purpose of this Act\n(1) The purpose of this Act is to re-enact Part 1 of the Judicature Amendment Act 1972, which sets out procedural provisions for the judicial review of—\n(a) the exercise of a statutory power:\n(b) the failure to exercise a statutory power:\n(c) the proposed or purported exercise of a statutory power.\n(2) The reorganisation in this Act of those provisions, and the changes made to their style and language, are not intended to alter the interpretation or effect of those provisions as they appeared in the Judicature Amendment Act 1972.'\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53392628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53392628", "title": "Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2016", "text": "Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2016\n\nThe Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2016 is an Act of the Scottish Parliament which continues the process of land reform in Scotland following the Community Empowerment (Scotland) Act 2015. It is notable for granting Scottish ministers the power to force the sale of private land to community bodies to further sustainable development in the absence of a willing seller.\n\nUnder the provisions of the act there is to be a ‘Land Rights and Responsibilities Statement’, setting out the Scottish Government’s objectives for land reform, a Scottish Land Commission is to take forward the land reform process, preparing a strategic plan, for the approval of Scottish ministers. One of the new land commissioners is to be a Tenant Farming Commissioner who must be neither an agricultural landlord nor a tenant but who is to be responsible for reviewing issues relating to tenant farming.\n\nA further provision is the creation of the Community Right to Buy for Sustainable Development. This permits Scottish ministers to approve the purchase of privately owned land by a community body with a registered interest. Unlike the Community Right to Buy established by the Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2003 and extended by the Community Empowerment (Scotland) Act 2015, the Community Right to Buy for Sustainable Development does not require a willing seller but allows ministers to compel landowners to sell if they decide that the sale will further sustainable development in the area. In this respect it is similar to the Crofting Community Right to Buy of the 2003 Act which allows crofting communities to purchase croft land and the Community Right to Buy abandoned or derelict land of the 2015 Act, neither of which require a willing seller. Community bodies may also register an interest in allowing a 3rd party to purchase land on the same basis. \n\nOther provisions of the act include new regulations to require persons who control land to be identified, with information obtained to appear in the Land Register of Scotland; the removal of sporting rights exemption from rates, which are to be re-valued; and further powers for Scottish Natural Heritage to control deer management. It also makes provision for notice and consultation where core paths are to be amended.\n\n"}
{"id": "25255006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25255006", "title": "List of Swiss federal referendums", "text": "List of Swiss federal referendums\n\nThis is a non-exhaustive list of Swiss federal votations. See the navigation template at the bottom of the page for a more complete list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1868495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1868495", "title": "List of tort cases", "text": "List of tort cases\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10628714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10628714", "title": "Marital life estate", "text": "Marital life estate\n\nA marital life estate is, in the common law tradition of the United States and Great Britain, a life estate held by the spouse (husband or wife) or widowed spouse, for the duration of that spouse's life.\n\nThe marital life estate may be created by operation of law, agreement, contract, will, deed, or court order, such as a divorce decree or judgment.\n"}
{"id": "218723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218723", "title": "Orion Pictures", "text": "Orion Pictures\n\nOrion Pictures Corporation is an American motion picture producer and distributor that produced and released films from 1978 until 1999 and was also involved in television production and syndication throughout the 1980s until the early 1990s. It was formed in 1978 as a joint venture between Warner Bros. and three former top-level executives of United Artists. Although it was never a large motion picture producer, Orion achieved a comparatively high reputation for Hollywood quality. Woody Allen, James Cameron, Jonathan Demme, Oliver Stone, and several other prominent directors worked with Orion during its most successful years from 1978 to 1992. Of the films distributed by Orion, four won Academy Awards for Best Picture: \"Amadeus\" (1984), \"Platoon\" (1986), \"Dances with Wolves\" (1990), and \"The Silence of the Lambs\" (1991). Two other Orion films, \"Hannah and Her Sisters\" (1986) and \"Mississippi Burning\" (1988), were nominated for that same category.\n\nIn 2013, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer revived the Orion name for television; a year later, Orion Pictures was relaunched by the studio.\n\nIn January 1978, three executives of Transamerica (TA)-owned studio United Artists (UA) – Arthur B. Krim (chairman), Eric Pleskow (president and chief executive officer), and Robert S. Benjamin (chairman of the finance committee) - quit their jobs. Krim and Benjamin had headed UA since 1951, and subsequently turned around the then-flailing studio with a number of critical and commercial successes. Change had begun once Transamerica purchased UA in 1967, and within a decade a rift formed between Krim and TA chairman Jack Beckett regarding the studio's operations. Krim suggested spinning off United Artists into a separate company, which was rejected by Beckett.\n\nThe last straw came for Pleskow when he refused to collect and deliver the medical records of UA department heads to Transamerica's offices in San Francisco for the sake of confidentiality. The tensions only worsened when \"Fortune\" magazine reported an article on the clash between UA and TA, in which Beckett had stated that if the executives disliked the parent company's treatment of them, they should resign. Krim, Benjamin, and Pleskow quit United Artists on January 13, 1978, followed by the exits of senior vice presidents William Bernstein and Mike Medavoy three days later. The week following the resignations, according to the website \"Reference for Business\", \"63 important Hollywood figures took out an advertisement in a trade paper warning UA that it had made a fatal mistake in letting the five men leave. The 'fatal mistake' came true following the box office disaster of \"Heaven's Gate\"\" which led to Transamerica selling UA to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.\n\nIn February 1978, the five men forged a deal with Warner Bros. The executives formed Orion Pictures Company, named after the constellation, which they claimed had five main stars (it actually has seven/eight). The new company intended only to finance projects, giving the filmmakers complete creative autonomy; this ideal was implemented with great success at United Artists. Orion held a $100 million line of credit, and its films would be distributed by the Warner Bros. studio. Orion, however, was contractually given free rein over distribution and advertising, as well as the number and type of films the executives chose to invest in.\n\nIn late March 1978, Orion signed its first contract; a two-picture deal with John Travolta's production company. Contracts with actress and director Barbra Streisand; actors James Caan, Jane Fonda, Peter Sellers, Jon Voight, and Burt Reynolds; directors Francis Ford Coppola and Blake Edwards; writer/director John Milius; singer Peter Frampton; and producer Ray Stark soon materialized. Orion also developed a co-financing and distribution deal with EMI Films. In its first year, Orion had 15 films into productions plus were in production, and had a dozen more actors, directors and producers line up to sign up with Orion.\n\nIn 1979, Benjamin died. Orion's first film, \"A Little Romance\", was released in April that year. That year, Orion released Blake Edwards' \"10\", which became a big critical and commercial success; the first for Edwards in over a decade (aside from installments of \"The Pink Panther\" franchise). Other films released in that period included \"Caddyshack\"; \"The Great Santini\", a critically praised but underpromoted adaptation of a Pat Conroy novel; and \"Promises in the Dark\". Out of the 23 films Orion released between April 1979 and December 1981, only a third of them made a profit. Orion executives were conflicted over financing big-budgeted films and passed on \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\" for that reason.\n\nBy early 1982, Orion had severed its distribution ties with Warner. As part of the deal, the rights to Orion's films made up to that point were sold to Warner. Orion was now looking to have its own distribution network by acquiring another company with such capabilities. The four partners looked into Allied Artists and Embassy Pictures before settling on Filmways. Orion subsequently purchased Filmways and reorganized the flailing company. New employees were hired and all of Filmways' non-entertainment assets (Grosset & Dunlap and Broadcast Electronics) were sold off. On August 31, 1982, Filmways was renamed as Orion Pictures Corporation.\n\nAnother result of the merger was that Orion entered television production. Orion's biggest TV hit was \"Cagney & Lacey\", which lasted seven seasons on CBS. In 1983, Orion Pictures introduced art-house division Orion Classics with executives who had previously run United Artists Classics.\n\nAccording to \"Reference for Business\": \"Of the first 18 movies the company had released as Orion Pictures Corporation, ten had been profitable, five had broken even, and three had losses of less than $2 million.\" One such film, Francis Ford Coppola's \"The Cotton Club\", was mired in legal troubles and Orion lost $3 million of its investment. '\"We've had some singles and doubles [but haven't] had any home runs,\" lamented Krim. In September 1984, Orion distributed \"Amadeus\", which garnered many accolades, winning eight Academy Awards, including Best Picture.\n\nFor Orion, 1985 was a dismal year. All but two films, \"Desperately Seeking Susan\" and \"Code of Silence\", made less than $10 million in the United States box office, including an unsuccessful attempt at a James Bond-type franchise, \"\". Orion's haphazard distribution channels and unsuccessful advertising campaigns made it impossible to achieve a hit. Another factor was that Orion was about to venture into the video business and stopped selling off home use rights to its films. Furthermore, production of the Rodney Dangerfield comedy \"Back to School\" was put on hold when a co-producer died, taking the film off of its Christmas 1985 release slate.\n\nIn January 1986, Mario Kassar and Andrew Vajna, producers of the \"Rambo\" films (the first film, \"First Blood\", was distributed by Orion) attempted to buy $55 million worth of the studio's stock through the duo's company, Anabasis. Had they succeeded, Kassar and Vajna would have controlled the board and laid off every executive save for Krim. Warburg Pincus subsequently limited its 20% stake in Orion to 5%; the remaining stocks were acquired by Viacom International. Viacom hoped to use Orion's product for its pay-TV channel Showtime. Orion expanded into home video distribution with the formation of Orion Home Entertainment Corporation.\n\nOn May 22, 1986, Metromedia, a television and communications company controlled by billionaire (and a friend of Krim's) John Kluge, which had just divested of its television station group to Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation (which would form what is now the Fox network), purchased a 6.5% stake in Orion. Kluge's investment in the company came at the right time- \"Back to School\" was a success and ultimately earned $90 million at the box office. By March 1987, the studio's fortunes increased dramatically with a succession of critical and commercial hits, including \"Platoon\" (which ultimately won a Best Picture Oscar), Woody Allen's \"Hannah and Her Sisters\", and the sports film \"Hoosiers\". Orion's 1986 offerings totaled 18 Academy Award nominations, more than any other studio. In 1987, Orion achieved further success with \"RoboCop\", and \"No Way Out\". By this time, Orion's television division had expanded into the lucrative syndicated game show market under the name \"Century Towers Productions\", in reference to Orion's street address at the time. It produced revivals of format inherited from Heatter-Quigley Productions after the Filmways merger (as Filmways had previously acquired HQ in the late 1960s); this included \"The New Hollywood Squares\", which ran from 1986 to 1989, and a revival of \"High Rollers\" which aired in the 1987-88 season.\n\nIn January 1987, Kluge faced big competition with the arrival of Sumner Redstone. His theater chain, National Amusements, purchased 6.42 percent of the company's stock. National Amusements later acquired Viacom, increasing their Orion stake at 21%, then 26%. Soon Kluge started buying more Orion stock, leading to him and Redstone battling it out to take over the company. Kluge ultimately succeeded when Metromedia took over approximately 67% of Orion on May 20, 1988, effectively giving him control of the studio. One analyst commented on the takeover to the \"Wall Street Journal\": \"This amount is probably so small to Kluge it doesn't matter. He probably burns that up in a weekend.\"\n\nIn 1989, Orion suffered from a disastrous slate of films, placing themselves dead last among the major Hollywood studios in terms of box office revenue. Among its biggest flops that year were \"Great Balls of Fire!\", the biography of Jerry Lee Lewis starring Dennis Quaid and Winona Ryder; \"She-Devil\", a dark comedy starring Meryl Streep and Roseanne Barr; and Miloš Forman's adaptation of \"Les Liaisons dangereuses\", \"Valmont\", which competed with \"Dangerous Liaisons\", also based on the same source material. Test screenings of the \"Weird Al\" Yankovic comedy \"UHF\" were so strong that Orion had high expectations for it. It flopped at first, but it has since attained a strong cult following.\n\nIn February 1990, Orion signed a deal with Columbia Pictures Entertainment in which the much larger studio would pay Orion $175 million to distribute Orion's movies and television programs overseas. Orion had previously licensed its films to individual distributors territory by territory. That same month, Mike Medavoy left Orion and became head of Tri-Star Pictures.\n\n1990 was just as dismal for Orion as the year prior, with such failures as \"The Hot Spot\" and \"State of Grace\". The only bright spot that year was Kevin Costner's western epic \"Dances with Wolves\". It won seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, and grossed $400 million worldwide. A few months later, Orion garnered another winner with \"The Silence of the Lambs\", but these two films could not make up for years of losses. Only Kluge's continued infusions of cash were enough to keep the company afloat, but soon he had enough.\n\nAfter failing to sell Orion to businessman (and former 20th Century Fox owner) Marvin Davis (Sony, which had recently purchased Columbia Pictures was also interested), Kluge took drastic steps. First, Orion shut down production. Second, Kluge ordered the sale of several projects, such as \"The Addams Family\" (which went to Paramount, though the international rights to the film were retained by Orion), in order to accumulate much-needed cash. Finally, in the spring of 1991, Kluge's people took over the company, leading to the departure of Arthur Krim. Orion's financial problems were so severe, that at the 63rd Annual Academy Awards in March 1991, host Billy Crystal made reference to the studio's debt in his opening monologue, joking that \"\"Reversal of Fortune\" [is] about a woman in a coma, \"Awakenings\" [is] about a man in a coma; and \"Dances with Wolves\" [was] released by Orion, a studio in a coma.\"\n\nIt was during this time that ABC stepped in to co-finance and assume production over many of Orion TV's shows it had in production, such as \"American Detective\" and \"Equal Justice\".\n\nOn November 25, 1991, Orion sold its \"Hollywood Squares\" format rights to King World Productions after Orion closed down its television division. On December 11, 1991, Orion filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.\n\nIn December 1991, Orion was in talks with New Line Cinema, a successful independent film company, to acquire the bankrupt studio. By the following April, Orion and New Line Cinema cancelled their plans on the issue of price. Republic Pictures and the then-new Savoy Pictures also attempted to buy Orion, but no deal materialized.\n\nAt the Academy Awards ceremony, broadcast on March 30, 1992, Crystal yet made another reference to Orion, this time about its demise: \n\n\"The Silence of the Lambs\" swept all five major Academy Awards; however, a majority of key executives, as well as the talent they had deals with, had left the studio. Hollywood observers had doubts that Orion would be resurrected to its former glory.\n\nOn November 5, 1992, Orion reemerged from bankruptcy. Its reorganization plan would allow for Orion to continue producing and releasing films, but financing for the features would be provided by outside sources, with the studio purchasing the distribution rights to them after their completion.\n\nOrion's bankruptcy also delayed the release of many films the studio had produced or acquired, among them: \"Love Field\" (1992), \"RoboCop 3\" (1993), \"The Dark Half\" (1993), \"Blue Sky\" (1994), \"Car 54, Where Are You?\" (1994), \"Clifford\" (1994), \"The Favor\" (1994), and \"There Goes My Baby\" (1994). Orion started releasing these films after their reorganization. \"Blue Sky\" won star Jessica Lange an Academy Award for Best Actress in 1995.\n\nIn November 1995, Orion and three other companies controlled by Kluge were merged to form the Metromedia International Group. Few of the films released during the four years after bankruptcy protection were successful either critically or commercially.\n\nIn 1996, Metromedia acquired production company Motion Picture Corporation of America, and installed its heads, Brad Krevoy and Steve Stabler, as co-presidents of Orion. Both received a six picture put picture distribution deal as a part of their contracts.\n\nIn the years ahead, Orion produced very few films, and primarily released films from other producers, including LIVE Entertainment. Orion Classics, minus its founders (who had moved to Sony Pictures Entertainment and founded Sony Pictures Classics), continued to acquire popular art-house films, such as \"Boxing Helena\" (1993), before Metromedia merged the subsidiary with Samuel Goldwyn Entertainment in 1996.\n\nIn July 1997, Metromedia shareholders approved the sale of Orion (as well as Samuel Goldwyn Entertainment and Motion Picture Corporation of America) to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. This led to the withdrawal of 85 employees, including Krevoy and Stabler, while 111 other employees were to be laid off within nine months, leaving 25 of them to work at MGM. Orion also brought with it, a two thousand film library, ten completed movies and five direct-to-video features for future release and the Krevoy and Stabler movie put picture distribution deal. Krevoy and Stabler retained the right to the Motion Picture Corporation of America name and their three top movies. Metromedia retained Goldwyn Entertainment's Landmark Theatre Group. \"One Man's Hero\" (1999) was the last film released by Orion for 15 years.\n\nMGM kept Orion intact as a corporation thus to avoid its Warner Bros. video distribution agreement and began distributing Orion Pictures films under the Orion Home Video label. MGM acquired the 2/3 of pre-1996 PolyGram Filmed Entertainment library from Seagram in 1999 for $250 million, increasing their library holdings to 4,000. The PolyGram libraries were purchased by its Orion Pictures subsidiary so as to avoid its 1990 video distribution agreement with Warner. In March 1999, MGM bought out its distribution contract with Warner Bros. for $225 million, effectively ending the distribution problem.\n\nIn 2013, MGM revived the Orion Television brand (after Orion's original TV unit was shut down during its bankruptcy era in the early 1990s) as Orion TV Productions with a new syndicated series, \"Paternity Court\".\n\nThe Orion Pictures name, also as Orion Releasing, was extended in fourth quarter 2014 for smaller multi-platform video on demand and limited theatrical distribution. Its name was first seen again on September 10, 2014 in front of the trailer for \"The Town That Dreaded Sundown\" that was released in October. The label's first release was the Brazilian film \"Vestido pra Casar\".\n\nIn September 2015, Entertainment One Films relaunched the Momentum Pictures banner with an announced deal with Orion Pictures to co-acquire and co-distribute films in the United States and Canada, and selected foreign markets, such as the United Kingdom (Momentum's country of origin). The initial films under the deal were \"The Wannabe\", \"Fort Tilden\" and \"Balls Out\". Other films released by Orion Pictures and Momentum Pictures include \"Pocket Listing\" and \"Diablo\".\n\nStarting in September 2016 with \"Burn Country\", Orion Pictures and Samuel Goldwyn Films paired in acquiring several films.\n\nIn 2017, Orion TV added another court series, \"Couples Court\", to its syndicated line up. The show is presided over by a husband wife team and deals with marital issues primarily cheating.\n\nOn September 6, 2017, MGM officially revitalized the Orion Pictures brand as a standalone, US theatrical marketing and distribution arm with the hiring of John Hegeman, who had come from Blumhouse Tilt (distributor of Orion's \"The Town That Dreaded Sundown\" and \"The Belko Experiment\") and incidentally got his start working at the old Orion in the 1980s. Hegeman will serve as president of the expanded label and report to Jonathan Glickman, president of MGM's motion picture group. Under his leadership, the \"new\" Orion will produce, market and distribute four to six modestly budgeted films a year across genres and platforms, both wide and limited releases for targeted audiences, and its first release, the young adult romance drama \"Every Day\", was released in February 23, 2018.\n\nIn May 2018, it was announced the Orion Classics would be revived as a multiplatform distribution label, with 8 to 10 films being released per year.\n\nDuring the 1980s and early 1990s, Orion's output included Woody Allen films, Hollywood blockbusters such as the first \"Terminator\" and the \"RoboCop\" films, comedies such as \"Throw Momma from the Train\", \"Dirty Rotten Scoundrels\", \"Something Wild\", \"UHF\", and the \"Bill & Ted\" films, and Best Picture Academy Award winners \"Amadeus\", \"Platoon\", \"Dances with Wolves\", and \"The Silence of the Lambs\".\n\nFollowing is a list of the major Academy Awards (Picture, Director, two Screenplay and four Acting awards) for which Orion films were nominated.\n\nAlmost all of Orion's post-1982 releases, as well as most of the AIP and Filmways backlogs and all of the television output originally produced and distributed by Orion Television, now bear the MGM name. However, in most cases, the 1980s Orion logo has been retained or added, in the case of the Filmways and AIP libraries.\n\nMost ancillary rights to Orion's back catalog from the 1978–1982 joint venture period remain with Warner Bros., including such movies as \"10\" (1979), \"Caddyshack\" (1980), \"Arthur\" (1981), \"Excalibur\" (1981), and \"Prince of the City\" (1981). Some post-1982 films originally released by Orion — \"Lionheart\" (1987), \"The Unbearable Lightness of Being\" (1988), and \"Amadeus\" (1984) (the latter two being Saul Zaentz productions) — are currently distributed by Warner Bros. as well. HBO also owns video distribution rights to \"Three Amigos\" (1986), which co-produced the film and owns pay-TV rights. However, MGM owns all other rights and the film's copyright. \"The Wanderers\" is owned by the film's producers; however, the copyright is held by MGM/Orion.\n\nWoody Allen's films \"A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy\" (1982) and \"Zelig\" (1983) are the only Orion films from the original joint venture period now owned by MGM. Orion releases produced by the Hemdale Film Corporation and Nelson Entertainment are included in MGM's library as well, and are incorporated into the Orion library. MGM via Polygram Entertainment did not acquire the Hemdale films, (which include \"The Terminator\", \"Hoosiers\", and \"Platoon\") or the Nelson films (including the \"Bill & Ted\" films), until MGM via Polygram Entertainment bought the pre-1996 library of PolyGram Filmed Entertainment, which included both companies' libraries, although the television and digital rights to certain Nelson films are now held by Paramount Television, with television syndication handled on behalf of Paramount Television by Trifecta Entertainment & Media.\n\nMany of the film and television holdings of The Samuel Goldwyn Company have now also been incorporated into the Orion library (with ownership currently held by MGM), and the copyright on some of this material is held by Orion, except \"The New Adventures of Flipper\" now carries the MGM Television Entertainment copyright.\n\nMGM still holds distribution rights to the 1980s revival of \"Hollywood Squares\" and \"High Rollers\" the company produced, as well as the remnants of the Heatter-Quigley library that was not erased, including all remaining episodes of the original \"Squares\"; they do not own the rights to the format, which is currently owned by CBS Television Distribution, successor-in-interest to King World, who purchased the format rights in 1991 and produced another syndicated revival from 1998 to 2004.\n\nOrion distributed the first Rambo film, \"First Blood\" (1982). That film, like the rest of the \"Rambo\" franchise, is now owned by StudioCanal as a result of purchasing the library of its co-distributor, Carolco Pictures.\n\n"}
{"id": "3593399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3593399", "title": "Rat-baiting", "text": "Rat-baiting\n\nRat-baiting is a blood sport, which involves placing captured rats in a pit or other enclosed area and then betting on how long it takes a dog, usually a terrier, to kill them. It is now illegal in most countries.\n\nIn 1835, the Parliament of the United Kingdom implemented an Act called the Cruelty to Animals Act 1835, which prohibited the baiting of some animals such as the bull, bear, and other large animals. However, rat baiting was not enforced and ratting competitions came to the forefront as a gambling sport. At one time, in London, there were at least 70 rat pits.\n\nJames Wentworth Day, a follower of the sport of rat baiting, described his experience and the atmosphere at one of the last old rat pits in London during those times.\n\nThe officials included a referee and timekeeper. Pits were sometimes covered above with wire mesh or had additional security devices installed on the walls to prevent the rats from escaping. Rules varied from match to match.\n\nIn one variation there was a weight handicap for each dog. The competing dog had to kill as many rats as the number of pounds the dog weighed, within a specific preset time. The prescribed number of rats was released and the dog was put in the ring. The clock started the moment the dog touched the ground. When the dog seized the last rat, his owner grabbed it and the clock stopped.\n\nRats that were thought still to be alive were laid out on the table in a circle before the referee. The referee then struck the animals three times on the tail with a stick. If a rat managed to crawl out of the circle, it was considered to be alive. Depending on the particular rules for that match, the dog may be disqualified or have to go back in the ring with these rats and kill them. The new time was added to the original time.\n\nA combination of the quickest time, the number of rats, and the dog's weight decided the victory. A rate of five seconds per rat killed was considered quite satisfactory; fifteen rats in a minute was an excellent result.\n\nCornered rats will attack and can deliver a very painful bite. It was not uncommon to see a ratter left with only one eye in its retirement.\n\nBefore the contest could begin there was a requirement for the capture of potentially thousands of rats. The rat-catcher would be called upon to fulfill this requirement. Jack Black, a rat-catcher from Victorian England supplied live rats for baiting.\n\nFaster dogs were preferred. They would bite once. The process was described as \"rather like a sheepdog keeping a flock bunched to be brought out singly for dipping,\" where the dog would herd the rats together, and kill any rats that left the pack with a quick bite.\n\nThe ratting dogs were typically working terrier breeds, which included, but were not limited to, the Bull and Terrier, Bull Terrier, Bedlington Terrier, Fox Terrier, Jack Russell Terrier, Rat Terrier, Black and Tan Terrier, Manchester Terrier, Yorkshire Terrier and Staffordshire Bull Terrier. The degree of care used in breeding these ratters is clear in their pedigree with good breeding leading to increased business opportunities. Successful breeders were highly regarded in those times. In modern times, the Plummer Terrier is considered a premiere breed for rat catching.\n\nA celebrated Bull and Terrier named \"Billy\" weighing approximately 12 kg (26 pounds), had a proud fighting history and the pedigree reflects the build-up over a period of years. The dog was owned by Charles Dew and was bred by the breeder James Yardington. On the paternal side is \"Old Billy\" from the kennel of John Tattersal from Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire and was descended from the best line of all Old English Bulldogs. On the maternal side, is \"Yardington's Sal\" descended from the Curley line. The pedigree of all these dogs can be traced back more than forty years and there are numerous old accounts about them.\n\nThe October 1822, edition of \"The Sporting Magazine\" provided descriptions of two rat pit matches with Billy, quoted as follows:\n\nBilly's best competition results are as follows:\n\nBilly's career was crowned on 22 April 1823, when a world record was set with a hundred rats killed in five-and-a-half minutes. This record stood until 1862 when it was claimed by another ratter named \"Jacko\". Billy continued in the rat pit until old age reportedly with only one eye and two teeth remaining.\n\nAccording to the \"Sporting Chronicle Annual\", the world record in rat killing is held by a black and tan Bull Terrier named \"Jacko\" weighing about thirteen pounds and owned by Jemmy Shaw. Jacko had the following contest results:\n\nJacko set two world records, the first on 29 July 1862, with a killing time of 2.7 seconds per rat and the second on 1 May 1862, with his fight against one hundred rats, where Jacko worked two seconds faster than the previous world record holder \"Billy\". The feat of killing 1,000 rats took place over a ten-week period, with one hundred rats being killed each week ending on 1 May 1862.\n\nThe last public competition took place in Leicester in 1912. The owner was prosecuted, fined and had to give a promise to the court that he would never again promote such entertainment. Toward the latter half of Queen Victoria's reign, a more humane attitude toward canines gradually emerged, the queen's love of animals setting the example. Baiting sports diminished in popularity and the exhibition of dogs slowly replaced the attractions of the dog pit.\n\nRatting and rat-baiting are not the same activities. Ratting is the legal use of dogs for pest control of non-captured rats in an unconfined space, such as a barn or field. Due to rat infestations, terriers are now being used for ratting to hunt and kill rats in major cities around the world, including the United Kingdom, the US and Vietnam. Although ratting with working terriers is far less efficient than using rodenticide or rat traps, the potential for the killing of non-target species is zero.\n\nIn Michael Crichton's \"The Great Train Robbery\" (1978), a \"ratting gentleman\" is depicted gambling in a rat-baiting competition.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "2700440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2700440", "title": "Royalty-free", "text": "Royalty-free\n\nRoyalty-free, or RF, refers to the right to use copyright material or intellectual property without the need to pay royalties or license fees for each use, per each copy or volume sold or some time period of use or sales.\n\nMany computer industry standards, especially those developed and submitted by industry consortiums or individual companies, involve royalties for the actual implementation of these standards. These royalties are typically charged on a \"per port\"/\"per device\" basis, where the manufacturer of end-user devices has to pay a small fixed fee for each device sold, and also include a substantial annual fixed fee. With millions of devices sold each year, the royalties can amount to several millions of dollars, which is a significant burden for the manufacturer. Examples of such royalties-based standards include IEEE 1394, HDMI, and H.264/MPEG-4 AVC. \n\nRoyalty-free standards do not include any \"per-port\" or \"per-volume\" charges or annual payments for the actual implementation of the standard, even though the text of the actual specification is typically protected by copyright and needs to be purchased from the standards body. Most open standards are royalty-free, and many proprietary standards are royalty-free as well. Examples of royalty-free standards include DisplayPort, VGA, VP8, and Matroska.\n\nIn photography and the illustration industry, it refers to a copyright license where the user has the right to use the picture without many restrictions based on one-time payment to the licensor. The user can therefore use the image in several projects without having to purchase any additional licenses. RF licenses can not be given on an exclusive basis. In stock photography, RF is one of the common licenses sometimes contrasted with Rights Managed licenses and often employed in subscription-based or microstock photography business models.\n\n"}
{"id": "35024654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35024654", "title": "Rule of law in the United Kingdom", "text": "Rule of law in the United Kingdom\n\nThe rule of law is one of the longest established common law fundamental principles of the governance of the United Kingdom, dating to Magna Carta of 1215, particularly jurisprudence following its late 13th century re-drafting. It as a minimum subjects an otherwise absolute monarch (executive) and all free people within its jurisdictions, primarily those of England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland to legal doctrines known as the general principles of law. It has evolved to work only alongside equal application of the law to all free people 'equality before the law' and within the framework of the constitutional monarchy supports the legal doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty. Exactly what it entails beyond this and the way that different aspects of the rule of law principle are applied, depends on the specific situation and era.\n\nAmong recognised academics in this field are Albert Dicey, Joseph Raz (building on thoughts by Friedrich Hayek) and Trevor Allan, who have proposed contrasting ideas about the scope of the rule of law: specifically, whether the emphasis is on legal form or substantive content and normatively if it should be.\n\nThe rule of law is emphasised through many separate ideas. Among them are that law and order in contrast to anarchy; the running of government in line with the law (i.e. \"legal government\") and normative discussion about the rights of the state as compared to the individual. Albert Venn Dicey described the rule of law as acting in three ways: the predominance of regular law as opposed to the influence of arbitrary power; equality before the law; and, that constitutional laws are not the source but the consequence of the rights of individuals.\n\nThe specific checking of arbitrary power is its oldest and most definitive concept as a consequence of Magna Carta and its byproduct, the first representative Parliament of England (and soon officially thereafter known as of England of Wales), which denied for the first time from the King the completely unfettered powers formerly exercised by the most powerful absolute monarchs on the throne. The key clause in the document has been consistently translated from identical, though abbreviated, Latin.\n\nThis was by the 14th century interpreted by Parliament as guaranteeing trial by jury.\n\nSimilarly in Scotland a Parliament evolved. Before its union with England and Wales in 1707 it was long portrayed as a constitutionally defective body that acted merely as a rubber stamp for royal decisions, but research during the early 21st century has found that it played an active role in Scottish affairs, and was sometimes a thorn in the side of the Scottish crown.\n\nThe enforcement of the doctrine of habeas corpus was widely achieved in the 17th century, however with slavery primarily in the colonies continuing, it was not until the successes of abolitionism in the United Kingdom, the Slave Trade Act of 1807 and Slavery Abolition Act 1833, that equality before the law throughout the Empire was in a formal legal sense achieved in this respect.\n\nThe Bill of Rights 1689 and two most recent Acts of Settlement (1701 and 1703) imposed constraints on the monarch and it fell to Parliament under the doctrine of Parliamentary sovereignty to impose its own constitutional conventions involving the people, the monarch (or Secretaries of State in cabinet and Privy Council) and the court system. All of these three groups of institutions have proven wary of upsetting or offending the others, adopting conventions designed to ensure their long-term integrity and hence self-preservation.\n\nAfter ordinary executive decisions were delegated, such as to a recognised Prime Minister and cabinet system from the mid 18th century, following on from the Bill of Rights 1689 in the Glorious Revolution, the highest courts laid down jurisprudence entrenching the growing doctrines of the Enrolled bill rule and Parliamentary sovereignty. In return Parliament has acquiesced in the senior courts' ability to declare unlawful new legislation based on older Treaty-based legislation for instance the Merchant Shipping Act 1988 in the Factortame I and IV decisions and executive actions in judicial reviews often based on the Human Rights Act 1998 (and in turn or separately the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Covenants). These developments have entrenched the doctrine of the rule of law as part of the constitution.\n\nLaw and order requires the prevention of crime as well as the contribution of authorities\n, and, as such, it does not matter by what means these are achieved, or what the characteristics of the law are. This concept of the rule of the law can, therefore, be upheld by even the most tyrannical dictatorship. Such a regime may allow for the normal operation of courts between private parties, and the limited questioning of the government within the dictatorial framework. Whether the rule of law can truly exist without democracy is debated. Freedom of expression and action seems to be what the prevention of crime allows citizens; therefore, limiting it by autocratic means has been considered incompatible with the rule of law. However, the picture is much clearer in the other direction: for democracy to thrive, the rule of law (in this limited sense) must be observed.\n\nPublic authorities must act within the law assigned to them, a second approach to the rule of law. Any actions taken outside the law are \"ultra vires\" and cannot be sanctioned by the courts. \"Entick v Carrington\" was a landmark case in terms of the English law, with the famous dictum of Camden LJ: \"If this is law it would be found in our books, but no such law ever existed in this country\". Joseph Raz identifies government following the law as a tautology: if the will of those inside the government were expressed outside their legal constraints, they would no longer be acting as the government. He therefore characterises this legal form argument as one of mere obedience to the law; ensuring those in government follow the laws as those outside it should. He rejects that as the sole conception of the rule of law. In the 2008 case of \"R (Bancoult) v Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (No 2)\", an Order in Council of the British government was found to have no basis in law by a minority of judges on final appeal. Additional powers can be granted to actors on behalf of the government only through parliament. In the United Kingdom, sanctions for departing from these rules come through ordinary court procedure; in other countries they may be assigned to designated courts. Government departments are directly liable for damage caused by their acts; however, the sovereign retains immunity from prosecution. This immunity runs wider that the Head of State of other countries, for example, the President of the United States may be impeached then put on trial. In \"M v Home Office\" the Home Secretary was found to be liable for contempt of court. On the other hand, Acts of Parliament that contravene basic rights – such as the indefinite detention without trial of suspected terrorists – whilst adhering to this concept of the rule of law.\n\nThis is identified by Dicey as part of his first conception: \"a man may with us be punished for a breach of law, but he can be punished for nothing else\".\n\nAny substantive version of the rule of law as it applies to the United Kingdom asks normative questions about what rules the government \"should be\" under, rather than merely ensuring it follows those it \"is\" under. The rule of law is thus likely to be invoked when considering controversial powers of the government that stray from precedent, depart from the European Convention of Human Rights as embodied in the Human Rights Act 1998, and break new legislative ground.\n\nThis interpretation is particularly controversial. If the rule of law is to enforce specific \"constitutional\" or \"core\" rights, what they should be is difficult to decide. Among them are questions of whether ideas such as the right not to be held indefinitely without trial, deemed contrary to the Convention in \"A v Home Secretary\", could ever be deemed appropriate if circumstances changed. In \"R. ex parte (Corner House Research) v Director of the Serious Fraud Office (2008)\", the defendant public prosecution body chief was deemed to allow national security considerations to take precedence over a thorough investigation into alleged bribery in certain arms deals, which is that departure from completely equal application of the law (including its application to the Crown) in order to protect life may result in a perceived breach of the modern-day rule of law.\n\nTrevor Allan sees the rule of law as, primarily, a vehicle for the protection of rights against \"irresponsible legislative encroachment\" in the face of a government with a large authority, backed by (normally) a significant majority in the House of Commons. The rule of law is contrasted with rule by men, and the arbitrary power one man might exercise over the other – the people require protection from the government. This leads him to support the \"core\" features of the rule of law, including government acting within its legal authority. Noting that this is not incompatible with wide discretionary powers on the part of the government, Allan then goes on to accept Raz's complaint, below, that too wide a definition is to expound a complete social philosophy. He instead chooses a conception that is not so wide, whilst being not as limited as Raz's.\n\nIn particular, Joseph Raz has argued that the rule of law should be limited to formal values – although formal values wider than merely maintaining law and order. These include transparency of law making, non-retroactive law, the independence of the judiciary and wide access to the courts, and the right to a fair trial. He suggests that the rule of law has become a by-word for general political ideals, separate from its actual meaning: \"if the rule of law is the rule of good law then to explain its nature is to expound a complete social philosophy\". Instead, he identifies principles of \"open and relatively stable\" lawmaking, and laws that the public can live their lives by. This concept is a merely formal one, he identifies, because this could be achieved through dictatorship, democracy, or any other means. He expresses confidence that this conception is not so restricted an approach as to be meaningless. Raz drew on similar ideas expressed by Friedrich Hayek, including \"stripped of all technicalities, [the rule of law] means that government in all its actions is bound by rules fixed and announced beforehand – rules which make it possible to foresee with fair certainty how the authority will use its coercive powers in given circumstances and to plan one’s individual affairs on the basis of this knowledge.\" Raz identifies eight principles instead: prospective, open and clear laws; relatively stable laws; laws based on stable, open and open and clear rules; the independence of the judiciary; the principles of natural justice (unbiased judiciary); judicial review of implementation; accessible courts; and no perversion of the law by policing discretion. However, he considers the list incomplete.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1282693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282693", "title": "SOLAS Convention", "text": "SOLAS Convention\n\nThe International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) is an international maritime treaty which sets minimum safety standards in the construction, equipment and operation of merchant ships. The convention requires signatory flag states to ensure that ships flagged by them comply with at least these standards.\n\nThe current version of SOLAS is the 1974 version, known as SOLAS 1974, which came into force on 25 May 1980. As of November 2018, SOLAS 1974 had 164 contracting states, which flag about 99% of merchant ships around the world in terms of gross tonnage.\n\nSOLAS in its successive forms is generally regarded as the most important of all international treaties concerning the safety of merchant ships.\n\nAs at March 2016, SOLAS 1974 had 162 contracting States, which flag about 99% of merchant ships around the world in terms of gross tonnage. , the non-parties to SOLAS 1974 include Bolivia, Lebanon and Sri Lanka, all considered flag of convenience states.\n\nSOLAS 1974 requires flag states to ensure that ships flagged by them comply with the minimum safety standards in the construction, equipment and operation of merchant ships. The treaty includes articles setting out general obligations, etc, followed by an annexe divided into twelve chapters, two new chapters were added in 2016 and 2017. Of these, chapter five (often called 'SOLAS V') is the only one that applies to all vessels on the sea, including private yachts and small craft on local trips as well as to commercial vessels on international passages. Many countries have turned these international requirements into national laws so that anybody on the sea who is in breach of SOLAS V requirements may find themselves subject to legal proceedings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe first version of SOLAS Treaty was passed in 1914 in response to the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\", which prescribed numbers of lifeboats and other emergency equipment along with safety procedures, including continuous radio watches. The 1914 treaty never entered into force due to the outbreak of the First World War.\n\nFurther versions were adopted in 1929 and 1948.\n\nThe 1960 Convention was adopted on 17 June 1960 and entered into force on 26 May 1965. It was the fourth SOLAS Convention and was the first major achievement for International Maritime Organization (IMO). It represented a considerable step forward in modernising regulations and keeping up with technical developments in the shipping industry.\n\nIn 1974 a completely new Convention was adopted to allow SOLAS to be amended and implemented within a reasonable timescale, instead of the previous procedure to incorporate amendments, which proved to be very slow. Under SOLAS 1960, it could take several years for amendments to come into force since countries had to give notice of acceptance to IMO and there was a minimum threshold of countries and tonnage. Under SOLAS 1974, amendments enter into force via a tacit acceptance procedure – this allows an amendment to enter into force on a specified date, unless objections to an amendment are received from an agreed number of parties.\n\nThe 1974 SOLAS came into force on 25 May 1980, 12 months after its ratification by at least 50 countries with at least 50% of gross tonnage. It has been updated and amended on numerous occasions since then and the Convention in force today is sometimes referred to as SOLAS, 1974, as amended.\n\nIn 1975 the assembly of the IMO decided that the 1974 convention should in future use SI (metric) units only.\n\nIn particular, amendments in 1988 based on amendments of International Radio Regulations in 1987 replaced Morse code with the Global Maritime Distress Safety System (GMDSS) and came into force beginning 1 February 1992. The issues covered by the treaty are set out in the list of sections (above).\n\nThe up-to-date list of amendments to SOLAS is maintained by the IMO. Previous amendments were made in May 2011. In 2015, another later amendment is the SOLAS Container Weight Verification Regulation VI/2. This regulation, implemented by the IMO Maritime Safety Committee (MSC) requires that the full weight of loaded containers must be obtained prior to being onboarded on an ocean vessel. Communicating a weight value has called for the introduction of a new Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) communication protocol called VGM (Verified Gross Mass) or VERMAS (Verification of Mass), and involves cooperation between ocean carriers, Freight Forwarders/NVOCCs, EDI providers as well as exporters. The regulation states that exporters (shippers) are ultimately responsible to obtain a verified container weight. Originally scheduled for implementation on July 1, 2016, the regulation allows for flexibility and practical refinement according to the Maritime Safety Committee Memorandum #1548 to October 1, 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44000142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44000142", "title": "Smith Commission", "text": "Smith Commission\n\nThe Smith Commission was announced by Prime Minister David Cameron on 19 September 2014 in the wake of the 'No' vote in the 2014 Scottish independence referendum. The establishment of the commission was part of the process of fulfilling The Vow made by the leaders of the three main unionist parties during the last days of the referendum campaign. The Vow promised the devolution of more powers from the Parliament of the United Kingdom to the Scottish Parliament in the event of a No vote.\n\nFollowing the No vote, Lord Smith of Kelvin was given the task to \"convene cross-party talks and facilitate an inclusive engagement process across Scotland to produce, by 30 November 2014, Heads of Agreement with recommendations for further devolution of powers to the Scottish Parliament\". Ten representatives were nominated by the political parties with elected members in the Scottish Parliament; the Commission started its discussions on 22 October. Agreement was reached and the report published on 27 November 2014.\n\nFollowing the Conservative election victory at the 2015 UK General Election, the Scotland Bill 2015–16 was proposed in the first Queen's Speech, to put into effect the recommendations of the Smith Commission.\n\nThe Vow was a joint statement by the leaders of the three main unionist parties, David Cameron, Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg, promising more powers for Scotland in the event of a No vote. Included in The Vow was that in the event of a No vote:\n\nThe Vow was published in the \"Daily Record\", one of the main tabloid newspapers in Scotland that also backed a No vote in the referendum. The explanation and background to the publication of The Vow was explained in the Daily Record itself one year after the referendum when it outlined that following a poll showing the 'Yes' side ahead, it was felt that firm promises of more powers were required from the 'No' side.\n\nThe five political parties with representation in the Scottish Parliament were each invited to nominate two representatives to the Commission. Those nominated were:\n\n\nThe commission invited submissions from individuals and organisations before a deadline of 31 October. Approximately 14,000 emails and letters were received from the public, with a further 250 contributions from groups.\n\nThe Conservatives, Labour and Liberal Democrats, who had all supported a no vote in the referendum, each submitted proposals which were similar to the findings of commissions they had each established before the referendum. The SNP and Scottish Greens, who had supported a yes vote, called for what was described by BBC News as \"devo max\".\n\nThe Scottish Trades Union Congress called for the full devolution of income tax, many welfare benefits and a different immigration policy. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland pointed to the possible risks and additional administration costs caused by having different tax systems and rates.\n\nThree Scottish airports (Edinburgh, Glasgow and Aberdeen) proposed that Air Passenger Duty (APD) should be devolved, with a view to it being abolished in Scotland. The airports cited the restrictive effect on tourism of APD, which raised about £200 million in revenue during the 2013/14 fiscal year. WWF Scotland opposed the devolution of APD in its submission, citing the growth in carbon emissions from air travel. The Scottish Government previously called for the devolution of APD in 2011, when it was devolved to Northern Ireland. This action had been taken in anticipation of a similar tax being abolished in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe report highlights three main Heads of Agreement. These are:\n\n\nThe following list are the issues discussed within the Heads of Agreement:\n\nOn 27 November 2014 the commission published its recommendations, which included the following:\n\n\nThe commission also considered devolving the power to vary all elements of Universal Credit (rather than just its housing element) but this did not appear in the commission's final recommendations.\n\nIn October 2014 the House of Commons \"Political and Constitutional Reform Committee\" heard evidence that was critical of the timetable set for the Smith Commission. Professor Michael Keating said he believed that the condensed timetable, which called for draft legislation by January 2015, was unrealistic. He warned of the risk that agreement would unravel because there was insufficient time to consider technical issues. Both Professor Keating and Professor Nicola McEwen said this was due to political pressures, with the unionist party leaders having vowed to grant additional powers and a United Kingdom general election due to be held on 7th May 2015.\n\nThe Scottish Socialist Party were not invited to be part of the Smith Commission, leaving them the only one of the six political parties that had registered with the Electoral Commission for the referendum campaign that were not able to send a representative.\n\nNicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s first minister, commented \"I welcome what is being recommended\" but argued that it \"doesn’t deliver a modern form of home rule\". Claiming that too little power would be devolved to Scotland, she added \"I want to have the power in our hands to create a better system to lift people out of poverty, to get our economy growing. That’s the kind of powerhouse parliament I want. Sadly it’s not the one that’s going to be delivered.\" Iain Macwhirter, writing in \"The Herald\", argued that the lack of devolution of taxes other than income tax would \"lock Scotland in economic decline\". Polling in November 2014 indicated that a majority of Scots wanted greater devolution than that recommended by the Smith Commission.\n\nThe SNP won 56 of the 59 seats contested in Scotland in the 2015 UK General Election, which was held on 7 May 2015. Speaking after the election, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon called for reforms greater than that proposed by Smith, particularly in respect of taxation and welfare. Former First Minister Jack McConnell described Smith as a \"shambles\" and called on Cameron to lead a new constitutional convention. Malcolm Rifkind, a former Secretary of State for Scotland, also expressed support for the idea of some sort of new commission. In response, Cameron said he would \"look at\" any proposals for further powers for Scotland but wanted to get the Smith Commission plans implemented first.\n\nOnce the Smith Commission's recommendations had been published they were debated in the UK Parliament and a command paper was published in January 2015 putting forward draft legislative proposals. A Scottish Parliament committee report published in May 2015 said that the draft bill proposed in January 2015 did not meet the recommendations of the Smith Commission, specifically in relation to welfare payments. A spokesman for the UK Government said that a full Parliamentary discussion would follow. A bill based on the Smith Commission's recommendations was announced by the UK government in the May 2015 Queen's Speech. The bill subsequently became law as the Scotland Act 2016 in March 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5598721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5598721", "title": "Société des auteurs, compositeurs et éditeurs de musique", "text": "Société des auteurs, compositeurs et éditeurs de musique\n\nSociété des auteurs, compositeurs et éditeurs de musique (SACEM) is a French professional association collecting payments of artists’ rights and distributing the rights to the original songwriters, composers, and music publishers.\n\nComposers Ernest Bourget, Victor Parizot and Paul Henrion in Paris in 1847 (see 1847 in music) succeeded in having payment made for their works which were being played in the leading café-concert at the time, Les Ambassadeurs. The French courts recognized these legitimate rights founded in revolutionary laws. The provisional union of authors, composers and publishers of music was thus established in 1850, and one year later, the professional union became a society (société civile) of authors, composers, and publishers who divided the author’s rights collected amongst the members, and this rule has been maintained to the present day.\n\n"}
{"id": "13233713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13233713", "title": "Sources of sharia", "text": "Sources of sharia\n\nVarious sources of sharia are used by Islamic jurisprudence to elucidate the body of Islamic law. The primary source accepted universally by all Muslims is the Qur'an, the majority adhering also to the traditionally reported Sunnah, but rejected by others; Quranism. The Qur'an is the holy scripture of Islam, believed by Muslims to be the direct and unaltered word of God. The Sunnah consists of the alleged religious actions and quotations of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, narrated through his Companions and the Imams (per the beliefs of the Sunni and Shi'ite schools respectively).\n\nAs Islamic regulations stated in the primary sources do not explicitly deal with every conceivable eventuality, jurisprudence must refer to resources and authentic documents to find the correct course of action. According to Sunni schools of law, secondary sources of Islamic law are consensus, the exact nature of which bears no consensus itself; analogical reason; pure reason; seeking the public interest; juristic discretion; the rulings of the first generation of Muslims; and local customs. Hanafi school frequently relies on analogical deduction and independent reasoning, and Maliki and Hanbali generally use the Hadith instead. Shafi'i school uses Sunnah more than Hanafi and analogy more than two others. Among Shia, Usuli school of Ja'fari jurisprudence uses four sources, which are Qur'an, Sunnah, consensus and the intellect. They use consensus under special conditions and rely on the intellect to find general principles based on the Qur'an and Sunnah, and use the principles of jurisprudence as a methodology to interpret the Qur'an and Sunnah in different circumstances. Akhbari Ja'faris rely more on tradition and reject ijtihad. According to Momen, despite considerable differences in the principles of jurisprudence between Shia and the four Sunni schools of law, there are fewer differences in the practical application of jurisprudence to ritual observances and social transactions.\n\nThe Qur'an is the first and most important source of Islamic law. Believed to be the direct word of God as revealed to Muhammad through angel Gabriel in Mecca and Medina, the scripture specifies the moral, philosophical, social, political and economic basis on which a society should be constructed. The verses revealed in Mecca deal with philosophical and theological issues, whereas those revealed in Medina are concerned with socio-economic laws. The Qur'an was written and preserved during the life of Muhammad, and compiled soon after his death.\n\nThe verses of the Qur'an are categorized into three fields: \"science of speculative theology\", \"ethical principles\" and \"rules of human conduct\". The third category is directly concerned with Islamic legal matters which contains about five hundred verses or one thirteenth of it. The task of interpreting the Qur'an has led to various opinions and judgments. The interpretations of the verses by Muhammad's companions for Sunnis and Imams for Shias are considered the most authentic, since they knew why, where and on what occasion each verse was revealed.\n\nThe Sunnah is the next important source, and is commonly defined as \"the traditions and customs of Muhammad\" or \"the words, actions and silent assertions of him\". It includes the everyday sayings and utterances of Muhammad, his acts, his tacit consent, and acknowledgments of statements and activities. According to Shi'ite jurists, the sunnah also includes the words, deeds and acknowledgments of the twelve Imams and Fatimah, Muhammad's daughter, who are believed to be infallible.\n\nJustification for using the Sunnah as a source of law can be found in the Qur'an. The Qur'an commands Muslims to follow Muhammad. During his lifetime, Muhammad made it clear that his traditions (along with the Qur'an) should be followed after his death. The overwhelming majority of Muslims consider the sunnah to be essential supplements to and clarifications of the Qur'an. In Islamic jurisprudence, the Qur'an contains many rules for the behavior expected of Muslims but there are no specific Qur'anic rules on many religious and practical matters. Muslims believe that they can look at the way of life, or \"sunnah\", of Muhammad and his companions to discover what to imitate and what to avoid.\n\nMuch of the sunnah is recorded in the Hadith. Initially, Muhammad had instructed his followers not to write down his acts, so they may not confuse it with the Qur'an. However, he did ask his followers to disseminate his sayings orally. As long as he was alive, any doubtful record could be confirmed as true or false by simply asking him. His death, however, gave rise to confusion over Muhammad's conduct. Thus the Hadith were established. Due to problems of authenticity, the science of Hadith (Arabic: `Ulum al-hadith) is established. It is a method of textual criticism developed by early Muslim scholars in determining the veracity of reports attributed to Muhammad. This is achieved by analyzing the text of the report, the scale of the report's transmission, the routes through which the report was transmitted, and the individual narrators involved in its transmission. On the basis of these criteria, various Hadith classifications developed.\n\nTo establish the authenticity of a particular Hadith or report, it had to be checked by following the chain of transmission (\"isnad\"). Thus the reporters had to cite their reference, and their reference's reference all the way back to Muhammad. All the references in the chain had to have a reputation for honesty and possessing a good retentive memory. Thus biographical analysis (\"`ilm al-rijāl\", lit. \"science of people\"), which contains details about the transmitter are scrutinized. This includes analyzing their date and place of birth; familial connections; teachers and students; religiosity; moral behaviour; literary output; their travels; as well as their date of death. Based upon these criteria, the reliability (\"thiqāt\") of the transmitter is assessed. Also determined is whether the individual was actually able to transmit the report, which is deduced from their contemporaneity and geographical proximity with the other transmitters in the chain. Examples of biographical dictionaries include Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani's \"\"Tahdhīb al-Tahdhīb\" or al-Dhahabi's \"Tadhkirat al-huffāz\".\"\n\nUsing this criterion, Hadith are classified into three categories:\n\nin a shariah court a qadi (judge ) hears a case, including witnesses and evidence . then the qadi makes a ruling . sometimes the qadi consults a mufti or scholar of law, for an opinion.\n\nAll medieval Muslim jurists rejected arbitrary opinion, and instead developed various secondary sources, also known as juristic principles or doctrines, to follow in case the primary sources (i.e. the Qur'an and Sunnah) are silent on the issue.\n\nThe \"ijma' \", or consensus amongst Muslim jurists on a particular legal issue, constitutes the third source of Islamic law. Muslim jurists provide many verses of the Qur'an that legitimize \"ijma' \" as a source of legislation. Muhammad himself said:\n\nIn history, it has been the most important factor in defining the meaning of the other sources and thus in formulating the doctrine and practice of the Muslim community. This is so because \"ijma' \" represents the unanimous agreement of Muslims on a regulation or law at any given time.\nThere are various views on \"ijma' \" among Muslims. Sunni jurists consider \"ijma' \" as a source, in matters of legislation, as important as the Qur'an and Sunnah. Shiite jurists, however, consider \"ijma' \" as source of secondary importance, and a source that is, unlike the Qur'an and Sunnah, not free from error. \"Ijma' \" was always used to refer to agreement reached in the past, either remote or near. Amongst the Sunni jurists there is diversity on who is eligible to participate in \"ijma' \", as shown in the following table:\n\nIn modern Muslim usage it is no longer associated with traditional authority and appears as democratic institution and an instrument of reform.\n\n\"Qiyas\" or analogical reason is the fourth source of the sharia for the majority of Sunni jurisprudence. It aims to draw analogies to a previously accepted decision. Shiites do not accept analogy, but replace it with reason (\"aql\"); among Sunnis, the Hanbalites have traditionally been reluctant to accept analogy while the Zahirites don't accept it at all. Analogical reason in Islam is the process of legal deduction according to which the jurist, confronted with an unprecedented case, bases his or her argument on the logic used in the Qur'an and Sunnah. Legally sound analogy must not be based on arbitrary judgment, but rather be firmly rooted in the primary sources.\n\nSupporters of the practice of \"qiyas\" will often point to passages in the Qur'an that describe an application of a similar process by past Islamic communities. According to supporters of the practice, Muhammad said: \"Where there is no revealed injunction, I will judge amongst you according to reason.\" Further, supporters claim that he extended the right to reason to others. Finally, supporters of the practice claim that it is sanctioned by the ijma, or consensus, amongst Muhammad's companions. Islamic studies scholar Bernard G. Weiss has pointed out that while analogical reason was accepted as a fourth source of law by later generations, its validity was not a foregone conclusion among earlier Muslim jurists. Thus the issue of analogical reason and its validity was a controversial one early on, though the practice eventually gained acceptance of the majority of Sunni jurists.\n\nThe success and expansion of Islam brought it into contact with different cultures, societies and traditions, such as those of Byzantines and Persians. With such contact, new problems emerged for Islamic law to tackle. Moreover, there was a significant distance between Medina, the Islamic capital, and the Muslims on the periphery on the Islamic state. Thus far off jurists had to find novel Islamic solutions without the close supervision of the hub of Islamic law (back in Medina). During the Umayyad dynasty, the concept of \"qiyas\" was abused by the rulers. The Abbasids, who succeeded the Umayyads defined it more strictly, in an attempt to apply it more consistently.\n\nThe general principle behind the process of \"qiyas\" is based on the understanding that every legal injunction guarantees a beneficial and welfare satisfying objective. Thus, if the cause of an injunction can be deduced from the primary sources, then analogical deduction can be applied to cases with similar causes. For example, wine is prohibited in Islam because of its intoxicating property. Thus \"qiyas\" leads to the conclusion that all intoxicants are forbidden.\n\nThe Hanafi school of thought very strongly supports \"qiyas\". Imam Abu Hanifa, an important practitioner of \"qiyas\", elevated \"qiyas\" to a position of great significance in Islamic law. Abu Hanifa extended the rigid principle of basing rulings on the Qur'an and Sunnah to incorporate opinion and exercise of free thought by jurists. In order to respond suitably to emerging problems, he based his judgments, like other jurists, on the explicit meanings of primary texts (the Qur'an and sunnah). But, he also considered the \"spirit\" of Islamic teachings, as well as whether the ruling would be in the interest of the objectives of Islam. Such rulings were based on public interest and the welfare of the Muslim community.\n\nThe Shafi'i school of thought accepts \"qiyas\" as a valid source. Imam Shafi'i, however, considered it a weak source, and tried to limit the cases where jurists would need to resort to \"qiyas\". He criticized and rejected analogical deductions that were not firmly rooted in the Qur'an and sunnah. According to Shafi'i, if analogical deductions were not strictly rooted in primary sources, they would have adverse effects. One such consequence could be variety of different rulings in the same subject. Such a situation, he argued, would undermine the predictability and uniformity of a sound legal system.\nImam Malik accepted \"qiyas\" as a valid source of legislation. For him, if a parallel could be established between the effective cause of a law in the primary sources and a new case, then analogical deduction could be viable tool. Malik, however, went beyond his adherence to \"strict analogy\" and proposed pronouncements on the basis of what jurists considered was \"public good\".\n\nAbu Hanifa developed a new source known as juristic preference. Juristic preference is defined as:\n\nThe source, inspired by the principle of conscience, is a last resort if none of the widely accepted sources are applicable to a problem. It involves giving favor to rulings that dispel hardship and bring ease to people. The doctrine was justified directly by the Qur'anic verse stating: \"Allah desires you ease and good, not hardship\". Though its main adherents were Abu Hanifa and his pupils (such as Abu Yusuf), Malik and his students made use of it to some degree. The source was subject to extensive discussion and argumentation, and its opponents claimed that it often departs from the primary sources.\n\nThis doctrine was useful in the Islamic world outside the Middle East where the Muslims encountered environments and challenges they had been unfamiliar with in Arabia. One example of isthisan is cited as follows: If a well is contaminated it may not be used for ritual purification. Istihsan suggests that withdrawing a certain number of buckets of water from the well will remove the impurities. Analogical reason, however, dictates that despite removing some of the water, a small concentration of contaminants will always remain in the well (or the well walls) rendering the well impure. The application of analogy means the public may not use the well, and therefore causes hardship. Thus the principle of justistic preference is applied, and the public may use the well for ritual purification.\n\nMalik developed a tertiary source called \"al-maslahah al-mursalah\", which means that which is in the best interests of the general public. According to this source of Islamic law, rulings can be pronounced in accordance with the \"underlying meaning of the revealed text in the light of public interest\". In this case, the jurist uses his wisdom to pursue public interest. This source is rejected by the Shafi'ites, Hanbalites and Zahirites from Sunni jurisprudence.\n\nShafi'i accepted cases in which he had to be more flexible with the application of Qisas. Similar to Abu Hanifa and Malik, he developed a tertiary source of legislation. The Shafi'i school adopted \"istidlal\" or inference, a process of seeking guidance from the source. Inference allowed the jurists to avoid strict analogy in a case where no clear precedent could be found. In this case, public interest was distinguished as a basis for legislation.\n\nMuslim scholars divided inference into three types. The first is the expression of the connection existing between one proposition and another without any specific effective cause. Next, inference could mean presumption that a state of things, which is not proved to have ceased, still continues. The final type of inference is the authority as to the revealed laws previous to Islam.\n\nShi'ite jurists maintain that if a solution to a problem can not be found from the primary sources, then \"aql\" or reason should be given free rein to deduce a proper response from the primary sources. The process, whereby rational efforts are made by the jurist to arrive at an appropriate ruling, when applied is called \"ijtihad\" (literally meaning \"exerting oneself\"). Shi'ite jurists maintain that qiyas is a specific type of ijtihad. The Sunni Shafi' school of thought, however, holds that both qiyas and ijtihad are the same.\n\nSunni jurists accepted ijtihad as a mechanism for deducing rulings. They, however, announced an end to its practice during the thirteenth century. The reason for this was that centers of Islamic learning (such as Baghdad, Nishapur, and Bukhara) had fallen into the hands of the Mongols. Thus, the \"doors to ijtihad\", were closed. In Sunni Islam, thus, ijtihad was replaced by \"taqlid\" or the acceptance of doctrines developed previously. Later in Sunni history, however, there were notable instances of jurists using reason to re-derive law from the first principles. One was Ibn Taymiyya (d. 728/1328), another was Ibn Rus̲h̲d (Averroes d. 595/1198).\n\nThere are many justifications, found in the Qur'an and sunnah, for the use of ijtihad. For example, during a conversation with Mu'ādh ibn Jabal, Muhammad asked the former how he would give judgments. Mu'ādh replied that he would refer first to the Qur'an, then to the Sunnah and finally commit to ijtihad to make his own judgment. Muhammad approved of this.\n\nA lawyer who is qualified to use this source is called a \"mujtahid\". The founders of the Sunni madhabs (schools of law) were considered such lawyers. All \"mujtahid\" exercise at the same time the powers of a \"mufti\" and can give \"fatwa\". Some \"mujtahid\" have claimed to be \"muj̲addid\", or \"renewer of religion.\" Such persons are thought to appear in every century. In Shi'ite Islam they are regarded as the spokespersons of the hidden Imam.\n\nThe term urf, meaning \"to know\", refers to the customs and practices of a given society. Although this was not formally included in Islamic law, the sharia recognizes customs that prevailed at the time of Muhammad but were not abrogated by the Qur'an or the tradition (called \"Divine silence\"). Practices later innovated are also justified, since Islamic tradition says what the people, in general, consider good is also considered as such by God. According to some sources, urf holds as much authority as ijma (consensus), and more than qiyas (analogical deduction). Urf is the Islamic equivalent of \"common law\".\n\nLocal custom was first recognized by Abū Yūsuf (d. 182/798), an early leader of the Ḥanafī school. However, it was considered part of the Sunnah, and not as formal source. Later, al-Sarak̲h̲sī (d. 483/1090) opposed it, holding that custom cannot prevail over a written text.\n\nAccording to Sunni jurisprudence, in the application of local custom, custom that is accepted into law should be commonly prevalent in the region, not merely in an isolated locality. If it is in absolute opposition to Islamic texts, custom is disregarded. However, if it is in opposition to analogical reason, custom is given preference. Jurists also tend to, with caution, give precedence to custom over doctoral opinions of highly esteemed scholars. Shi'ite scholars do not consider custom as a source of jurisprudence, nor do the Hanbalite or Zahirite schools of Sunni jurisprudence.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Sunni\"\n\n\"Shia\"\n"}
{"id": "37658531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37658531", "title": "South African Law Reform Commission", "text": "South African Law Reform Commission\n\nThe South African Law Reform Commission (SALRC) is a law reform commission which investigates the state of South African law and makes proposals for its reform to Parliament and the provincial legislatures. It is an independent advisory statutory body established by the South African Law Reform Commission Act of 1973. It investigates matters appearing on a programme approved by the Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development. The commission is part of the Commonwealth Association of Law Reform Agencies.\n\nThe members of the SALRC are appointed by the President and are drawn from the judiciary, legal profession and academic institutions. The current members of the SALRC are:\n\nA new Commission was to be appointed by the President in 2012.\n\nIn February 2012, the Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development Jeff Radebe told reporters that the SALRC would be re-engineered to boost its legal research capacity and to better serve the needs of South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "3126176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3126176", "title": "Tax advisor", "text": "Tax advisor\n\nA tax advisor or tax consultant is a person with advanced training and knowledge of tax law. The services of a tax advisor are usually retained in order to minimize taxation while remaining compliant with the law in complicated financial situations. Tax Advisors are also retained to represent clients before tax authorities and tax courts to resolve tax issues.\n\nIn Austria, Steuerberater is the professional license for tax advisors.\n\nIn Germany, Steuerberater is the professional license for tax advisors.\n\nIn Italy, tax advisors are called \"commercialisti\", and provide assistance on business management, business law, economics, finance, tax, accounting, commercial, corporate and administrative matters. \"Dottori commercialisti\", who have a degree in economics, and \"ragionieri commercialisti\", who have a diploma from an \"istituto tecnico economico\", were members of two different professional orders, but they were merged in 2008 and it is now impossible to become a \"commercialista\" without a \"\". \"Esperti contabili\", whose roles are similar to those of a \"commercialista\", must have a \"\", a first cycle degree that is equivalent to a bachelor's degree. According to the Italian law, the following activities are some of the roles of a \"commercialista\":\n\nIn Japan, there is a specific license for tax advisors called . In order to obtain this qualification, an individual must pass a special state examination, or already be qualified as an attorney at law or certified public accountant.\n\nIn South Korea, there is a specific license for tax advisors called certified tax accountant. In order to obtain this qualification, an individual must pass a special examination.\n\nIn the UK, guidelines concerning professional conduct in relation to taxation are published in conjunction with the Chartered Institute of Taxation, the Association of Taxation Technicians, the Institute of Indirect Taxation, the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. These were prepared for the assistance of members of the various associations both generally in dealing with clients and the tax authorities and specifically in relation to irregularities and errors. \n\nThe guidelines, which include practical advice about a range of legal and ethical issues, are summarised as:\n\n\nIn the United States, paid tax return preparers are regulated but not licensed by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States Department of the Treasury. There are penalties for failure to disclose the identity of the preparer on the return, for the failure to give the taxpayer a copy of the return, and for negligence in preparing the return.\n\nPractice before the Internal Revenue Service is regulated by \"Treasury Department Circular No. 230\", \"Regulations Governing the Practice of Attorneys, Certified Public Accountants, Enrolled Agents, Enrolled Actuaries, and Appraisers before the Internal Revenue Service\". Most practice is limited to attorneys, Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), enrolled agents, and enrolled actuaries. Rendering tax advice is also regulated by Circular 230.\n\nFailure to uphold these standards can result in disciplinary action ranging from reprimand to permanent disbarrment from practice.\n\nIn the United States, the term \"tax professional\" is a generic term describing a variety of professions including enrolled agents, Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), financial planners, accountants, tax preparers, and some lawyers.\n\nIn the United States, by far the largest segment of tax professionals are individual tax preparers.\n\n"}
{"id": "27265801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27265801", "title": "Tyre label", "text": "Tyre label\n\nThe Tyre Label is a mark for motor vehicle tyres. Manufacturers of tyres for cars, light and heavy trucks must specify fuel consumption, wet grip and noise classification of every tyre sold in EU market starting in November 2012. \nFor passenger car, light truck and truck tyres the information must be available in technical promotional literature (leaflets, brochures, etc.), including the manufacturer website \nFor passenger and light truck tyres, the manufacturers or importers have the choice of either putting a sticker on the tyre tread or a label accompanying each delivery of batch of tyres to the dealer and to the end consumer\nThe tyre label will use a classification from the best (green category \"A\") to the worst performance (red category \"G\").\n\nThis initiative results from a regulation by the EU Commission released in 2009. It is part of the Energy Efficiency Action Plan, designed to improve the energy performance of products, buildings and services to reduce energy consumption by 20% until 2020. The EU has already created a system for marking of electrical household appliances such as refrigerators, washing machines and televisions with the intent to inform the European population better about the level of their consumption.\n\nRolling resistance is the main key factor in measuring the energy efficiency of a tyre and has direct influence on the fuel consumption of a vehicle. A set of tyres of the green class \"A\" compared to a \"G\" class can reduce fuel consumption by 9% of a passenger car; even more for trucks.\n\n'D' Grading is not used in rolling resistance grading for Passenger Cars and Light Trucks while it is used for Heavy Trucks\n\nBasis for wet grip is the absolute stopping distance when driving 80 km per hour. Between each class, there are 3–6 metres difference in braking distance. Classes \"D\" and \"G\" are not used.\n\nThe driving by noise is quoted as an absolute value in decibel and as a 3 classes sound wave symbol. A continuous sound level above 80 decibel can cause health problems.\n\n\n\nTyres that make too much roadway noise as determined by the EU, will have an extra tax/penalty imposed on them from November 2012.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe new label is designed to show information regarding 3 criteria, however there are many other important performance factors to consider including:\n\n\nAutomotive manufacturers require the very highest standard across all these performance factors before they approve tyres for their new vehicles.\nFurthermore, widely published tyre tests also take these performance factors into account and therefore continue to be an excellent source of independent information regarding the total performance of a tyre.\nTyres that make too much noise as determined by the EU, will have an extra tax/penalty imposed on them from November 2012.\n\nActual fuel savings and road safety also depend heavily on the behaviour of drivers when using their cars, and in particular the following:\n\n— Eco-driving can significantly reduce fuel consumption\n\n— Tyre pressure should be regularly checked to optimise wet grip and fuel efficiency performance\n\n— Stopping distances should always be strictly respected\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48013706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48013706", "title": "Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal", "text": "Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal\n\nVinnytsia of Appeal — the Court of Appeal, having the jurisdiction to Vinnytsia, Khmelnitsky and Chernivtsi region, located in Vinnytsia.\n\nAccording to the Decision of High Council of Justice on December 20, 2010 Kuzmyshyn Vitaliy M. was appointed to the position of a Chairman of Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal.\nBy that time Vitaliy Kuzmyshyn headed Vinnytsia District Administrative Court.\n\nAccording to the Decree of the President of Ukraine on October 16, 2008 № 941/2008 “On improving the network of administrative courts” Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal was created in an amount of 42 judges.\nAccording to the Decree of the President of Ukraine on August 12, 2010 № 812/2010 “On Amendments to the Decree of the President of Ukraine of November 16, 2004 № 1417” Cherkasy region was excluded of the jurisdiction of Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal, thus the Vinnytsia Appeal Administrative District includes three areas: Vinnytsia, Khmelnitsky and Chernivtsi.\n\nThe appointment and election of judges to Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal happened in several stages. First judges of Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal were elected indefinitely according to the Decree of Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine “On election of judges” on October 7, 2010 № 2595-VI. They were:\n\n\nIn October and November 2010 according to the resolutions of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine Drachuk Tetiana O.and Smilianets Eduard S. were elected to the positions of judges of Vinnytsia Administrative Court Of Appeal indefinitely.\nAccording to the Decree of the President of Ukraine “On appointment of judges”on November 19, 2010 № 1046/2010\n\n\nwere appointed as judges of Vinnytsia Administrative Court Of Appeal.\nIn December 2010 according to the resolutions of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine “On appointment of judges” on December, 02, 2010 № 2763-VI and on December 23, 2010 № 2871-VI Holota Lyudmyla O., Kozhuhar Maria S., Sovhyra Dmytro I. were elected to the positions of judges of Vinnytsia Administrative Court Of Appeal indefinitely.\nIn February 15, 2011 The High Council of Justice took the decision to appoint Hontaruk Viktor M. as a Vice-Chairman of Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal and Melnyk-Tomenko Zhanna M. as a Vice-Chairwoman of Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal.\n\nAccording to the Decision of Vinnytsia Regional Council № 1072 on November 30, 2010 the building on Soborna Street, 48 / Kozytskogo Street, 34 was leased for accommodation to Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal.\nPursuant to paragraph 4, Section VII “Final and Transitional Provisions”of the Code of Administrative Procedure of Ukraine the launch of procedural activity of Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal was declared by State Judicial Administration of Ukraine.\nIts procedural activity Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal began on December 15, 2010. Celebrations on this occasion were held on April 12, 2011.\nApplying an Article 115 of Law of Ukraine “On Judiciary and Status of Judges” and following the decision of meeting of judges of Vinnytsia Administrative Court of Appeal two chambers on different categories of cases within the respective court jurisdiction were established. Zalimskiy Ihor H. was appointed as a Secretary of the first chamber and Storchak Volodymyr J. – as a Secretary of the second one.\n"}
{"id": "1529275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1529275", "title": "Woodhead Commission", "text": "Woodhead Commission\n\nThe Woodhead Commission (officially the Palestine Partition Commission) was a British technical commission established to propose \"a detailed\" partition scheme for Mandatory Palestine, including recommending the partition boundaries and examination of economic and financial aspects of the Peel Plan.\n\nThe Commission was appointed at the end of February 1938 and conducted its investigations from April to early August 1938. It rejected the Peel Commission's plan mainly on the grounds that it required a large transfer of Arabs, and considered two other plans. It preferred a modification of the partition, which forms a satisfactory basis of settlement, if the United Kingdom government accept \"the very considerable financial liability involved,\" that balances the Arab state budget. In this plan, the entire Galilee and a corridor from Jaffa to Jerusalem would remain under British mandate.\n\nIt published its conclusions on November 9, 1938, after which the British government rejected the imminent partition of Palestine as involving insurmountable \"political, administrative and financial difficulties\". Britain called for a conference in London for all relevant parties to work out a compromise.\n\nThe Arabs renewed their revolt after the publication of the Peel Commission report and the British Cabinet, taking fright, secretly voted against partition on 8 December 1937. The Woodhead commission was appointed with a formal duty of implementation of the Peel proposals but in reality to bury them. The Commission comprised Sir John Woodhead, a former civil administrator in India; Sir Alison Russell, a lawyer; Percival Waterfield and Thomas Reid, also Indian civil servants. It was charged with examining the Peel Commission plan in detail, in order \"to recommend boundaries for the proposed Arab and Jewish areas and the enclaves to be retained permanently or temporarily under British Mandate\" and \"to examine and report on the economic and financial questions involved in partition upon which decisions will require to be taken.\" However, the appointment of the Commission was regarded by the Colonial Office as an instrument to free Britain from its obligation to the partition plan. In accordance with a decision of the British cabinet, Woodhead was secretly advised that it was within the commission's authority to decide that \"no workable scheme could be produced\". Sir George Rendel, head of the Eastern Department of the Foreign Office, did his utmost to ensure that the Commission would reach the \"correct conclusion,\" by trying to influence the choice of personnel and placing his own memorandum before the Commission as evidence.\n\nThe Commission spent over three months in Palestine, taking evidence from witnesses in 55 sessions. No Arabs came forward to submit evidence, though king Abdullah of Transjordan wrote to Woodhead giving support for partition as well as receiving the Commission in Amman.\n\nThe Commission found that a self-supporting Arab State could only be established if it \"contained a large number of Jews, whose contributions to tax-revenue would alone enabled that state to balance its budget.\" As the Arab State would need the mandated territories for farming and the Jewish State would need them for industry, the Commission proposed a customs union.\n\nIn their report, they examined three possible modifications of the Peel Commission , which they called Plans A, B and C. These plans proposed the creation of a Jewish state surrounded by a larger Arab state and a British zone. The three plans are as follows:\n\nPlan A, was based on the Peel Plan, with the boundaries redrawn \"more exactly, taking their outline as a guide\". It proposed a coastal Jewish state, a British-mandated corridor from Jerusalem to the coastal city Jaffa, and the remainder of Palestine merged with Transjordan into an Arab state. Jaffa (without Tel Aviv) was included in the mandated corridor in the Peel Plan but in the Arab state in Plan A.\nUnder Plan A, it was estimated that the Arab state would have 7,200 Jews and 485,200 Arabs, and the Jewish state would have 304,900 Jews and 294,700 Arabs.\n\nPlan B, same as Plan A, except that it reduced the size of the Jewish State by adding Galilee to the permanently mandated area and the southern part of the region south of Jaffa to the Arab State.\nUnder Plan B, the Jewish state would have 300,400 Jews and 188,400 Arabs (50,000 in the Haifa district), while 90,000 Arabs and 76,000 Jews would continue to live under British rule.\n\nPlan C, a further modification, would reduce the Jewish State to the coastal region between Zikhron Yaakov and Rehovot, while placing northern Palestine, including the Jezreel Valley, and all the semi-arid part of southern Palestine, under a separate mandate to be administered by the mandatory until the Arab and Jewish populations could agree on their final destination. An essential feature of the plan was a \"customs union\" of the Arab State, the Jewish State and the territories under Mandate.\n\nPlan C recommended:\n\n\nThe commission report was published on 9, November 1938, concluded that no plan of partition could be evolved within the terms of reference which would, in the view of the members of the Commission, offer much hope of success, for eventual establishment of self-supporting Arab and Jewish states. However, the commission devised possible alternative plans.\n\nThe commission rejected Plan A, which was the Commission's interpretation of the Peel Plan, mainly on the grounds that it required a large transfer of Arabs to reduce the number of Arabs in the proposed Jewish state. However, the British government had already rejected Peel's suggestion that the transfer be compulsory, and the Commission considered that a voluntary transfer was also not expected to occur because of the Arab population's \"deep attachment to the land\". In addition, development difficulties for the Arabs were expected. Second, the inclusion of Galilee in the Jewish state was considered undesirable as \"the population is almost entirely Arab\", the Arabs living there were likely to resist the inclusion by force, and the option would create a \"minority problem\" that threatened regional stability.\n\nPlan B was rejected but one member favored it. The problem of Galilee was considered fatal to Plan B. Including it in the Arab state would create a major security problem for the Jewish state, while keeping it indefinitely under mandate would deprive the large Arab population of its right to independence. Major problems were also seen with the disposition of Haifa, whose population was approximately half Jewish, and the part of Palestine running from Haifa to Beisan and then north to the frontier.\n\nPlan C was preferred by the commission. This plan was a modification of the partition, which would form a satisfactory basis of settlement, if the United Kingdom was prepared to provide a sufficient assistance to enable the Arab State to balance its budget. In this plan, the entire Galilee and a corridor from Jaffa to Jerusalem would remain under British mandate.\n\nTwo members of the Commission also added Notes of Reservation. Russell argued that Plan B was preferred to Plan C, being more in accord with the Peel Commission's plan, more likely to secure peace, and more equitable and practical. Reid argued that all three plans were fatally flawed.\n\nThe Commission also declared that there were financial and economic difficulties \"of such a nature that we can find no possible way to overcome them within our terms of reference.\" It found that \"it is not possible, under our terms of reference, to recommend boundaries which will afford a reasonable prospect of the eventual establishment of a self-supporting Arab State. This conclusion is, in our opinion, equally valid under plan C, plan B, and any other plan of partition which does not involve the inclusion in the Arab State of an area containing a large number of Jews, whose contributions to tax-revenue would alone enable that state to balance its budget\". They suggested that the Arab and Jewish states not be given fiscal independence but instead the UK government accept \"the very considerable financial liability\" and provide a sufficient assistance to enable the Arab State to balance its budget.\n\nIn a published summary his findings, Woodhead identified two reasons for the financial infeasibility of an Arab state. First, Jewish citizens of Palestine made much higher \"per capita\" tax contribution than Arabs, yet any feasible partition would leave few Jews in the Arab state. Second, the greater part of the Arab wealth lay in the places that would become part of the Jewish state due to their large Jewish populations. For example, although Arabs and Jews had about the same amount of land under citrus cultivation, less than one third of the Arab holding would be in the Arab state.\"\n\nThe Commission proposed a modified form of partition called \"economic federalism\" in which the two states would enter into a customs union with the territories that remained under mandate, leaving the Mandatory authorities to determine a fiscal policy. According to the report: \"The customs revenue would be collected by the Mandatory, and the net surplus after meeting certain common charges would be distributed between the three areas according to an agreed formula, subject to periodic review...The Commission suggest that initially each area's share should be one-third...To enable the Arab State to balance its budget without subjecting it to external financial control, it should receive a supplementary share out of the share of the mandated territories, under conditions which will entitle it to share in the expansion of customs revenue resulting from an increase of prosperity in the rest of Palestine. This arrangement could be extended, if desired, to cover internal communications (railways, posts and telegraphs) thus removing certain obvious administrative difficulties consequent on partition. While this arrangement withholds fiscal autonomy from the Arab and Jewish states it seems to the Commission, subject to certain reservations, to form a satisfactory basis for settlement, provided his Majesty's Government are prepared to accept the considerable financial liability involved,\" in order to balance the Arab state budget.\n\nFormer Colonial Secretary Leo Amery argued that partition had been rejected \"for the wrong reasons.\" He said that the Peel Plan based its proposal on areas where \"Jews and Arabs already preponderated,\" while fulfilling the Mandate required providing the Jews with sufficient territory for substantial immigration. The attempt of the Woodhead Commission to include the fewest number of Arabs in Jewish areas and vice versa led to plans that were not viable. Moreover, the implication was that a self-supporting Arab state must \"continue to enjoy those amenities that Jewish enterprise and taxation had brought to undivided Palestine.\" According to Amery, no scheme could be implemented under such assumptions.\n\nThe report of the Woodhead commission was presented to Parliament and published on November 9, 1938. As a consequence, the government issued a policy statement that \"the political, administrative and financial difficulties involved in the proposal to create independent Arab and Jewish States inside Palestine are so great that this solution of the problem is impracticable.\"\n\nThe Jewish Agency Executive responded that the Woodhead report could not \"serve as the basis for any negotiations, either between the Jews and the Arabs or between the Jewish Agency and the [British] government.\"\n\nDespite Britain's announcement that the plan was impracticable, it suggested that Arab-Jewish agreement might still be possible. In 1939 London invited the Palestine Arabs, the neighboring Arab states and the Jewish Agency to London to participate in a third attempt to resolve the crisis, the St. James Conference (also known as the Round Table Conference of 1939). The recommendations were eventually rejected by both Jews and Arabs.\n\n"}
