{"id": "12905760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12905760", "title": "Adelphi Papers", "text": "Adelphi Papers\n\nThe Adelphi Papers is a monograph series in which the policy-related original academic research of the International Institute for Strategic Studies is principally published. The series was established in 1961 and continues today.\n\nThe publications are required to be about 28,000 to 30,000 words—longer than typical journal articles, but shorter than books. About eight Adelphi papers are published annually, and 385 issues have been published from 1961 to 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "25983549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25983549", "title": "Agrarian Party (Panama)", "text": "Agrarian Party (Panama)\n\nThe Agrarian Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Agrario\", PA) was a Panamanian small regionalist conservative political party.\nThe party was active in Chiriquí Province in the 1920s and 1940s. \n\nThe PA was represented in the Panamian Parliament from 1928 to 1936.\n\nCarlos V. Biebarach (later a justice of the Supreme Court of Panama) and Manuel C. Díaz Armuelles were the founders and leaders of the Party.\n"}
{"id": "32494656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32494656", "title": "AgroWeb Network", "text": "AgroWeb Network\n\n\"AgroWeb Network\" was established in 1998 by organizations and individuals involved in agricultural and rural development in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). AgroWeb Network is maintained by institutions and individuals operating in their respective countries. \n\nAgroWeb Network collaborates with the European System of Cooperative Research Networks in Agriculture.\n\nInternational Association of Agricultural Information Specialists (IAALD) and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) are initiators of the AgroWeb Network. The AgroWeb Network has introduced national portals of CEE countries. National portals include country-specific information mainly linking agriculture-related institutions - ministries, libraries, information centres, universities, research centres, Non-governmental Organizations (NGO's), agro-marketing organizations, etc. - involved in the European Integration process.\n\nAgroWeb Network seeks to fulfill two basic objectives:\n\na) Collection and dissemination of information about the agricultural sector.\n\nb) Capacity building and inter-institutional cooperation.\n\nAgroWeb Network has twenty seven member countries. The national portals are hosted by the host organizations with support of national authorities and experts. The portals are maintained by national working groups composed of coordinators and authors/editors. The profiles of information management experts, national coordinators and AgroWeb authors/editors are included in the 'Contact Database'.\n\n"}
{"id": "28079710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28079710", "title": "Armata Neagră", "text": "Armata Neagră\n\nArmata Neagră () was an organized anti-Soviet group in the Moldovan SSR (Bessarabia).\n\nArmata Neagră was formed in 1949 as an organized anti-Soviet group in Bessarabia. Teodor Coşcodan, Ion Ganea, Vasile Plaşca, Simion Alexa, Gavril Bodiu, Gheorghe Bogatu, Ion Coşcodan, Hariton Ciolpan, Pavel Caţer, Mihail Jardan, Grigore Iovu, Grigore Herţa, Maria Buruiană were important members of the clandestine organization. In July 1950, the organization had 50 active members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "985556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=985556", "title": "Asociación de Nuevos Emigrados Revolucionarios Cubanos", "text": "Asociación de Nuevos Emigrados Revolucionarios Cubanos\n\nAsociación de Nuevos Emigrados Revolucionarios Cubanos (Association of Cuban Revolutionary New Emigrants) was a Cuban leftist group organized in Mexico in 1926 by Julio Antonio Mella. ANERC published the magazine \"Cuba Libre\".\n"}
{"id": "51525128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51525128", "title": "Biological globalization", "text": "Biological globalization\n\nBiological globalization has been defined as \"the spread of plants domesticated in one area to favorable environments around the world\". Columbian Exchange is a classic example of biological globalization. A growing and changing human population plays an important part on what plants are moved to new locations and which are left untouched. Early signs of biological globalization can be traced back to the mid 1860s. Wheat is an example of biological globalization that appeared early in the developmental timeline. Global trading was the beginning of biological globalization which integrated plants to new environments. The black francolin is another example as it was originally from the Mediterranean but is now a common eastern gamebird.\n\n"}
{"id": "49607455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49607455", "title": "Centre on Conflict, Development and Peacebuilding", "text": "Centre on Conflict, Development and Peacebuilding\n\nThe Centre on Conflict, Development and Peacebuilding is an interdisciplinary research centre at the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies which is housed at the Maison de la paix in Geneva. The Centre is staffed by several prominent researchers such as: director Keith Krause, Mohamed Mahmoud Ould Mohamedou, Thomas J. Biersteker, and Jean-Louis Arcand.\n\nThe Centre on Conflict, Development and Peacebuilding (CCDP) was founded in 2008 by Keith Krause, Thomas J. Biersteker, Ricardo Bocco and Gilles Carbonnier, following the merger of and into the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies.\n\nThe Centre specifically focuses on research in the following fields:\n\n"}
{"id": "38706290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38706290", "title": "Committee on Social Inclusion, Participative Democracy and Human Rights", "text": "Committee on Social Inclusion, Participative Democracy and Human Rights\n\nThe UCLG Committee on Social Inclusion, Participatory Democracy and Human Rights is one of the four Committees of the United Cities and Local Governments. As an autonomous network in the framework of UCLG, its stated goal is to bring together local authorities from across the world to exchange points of view and local initiatives on social inclusion, participatory democracy and human rights. Inheritor of the forums of local authorities (FAL) held in parallel to the first editions of the World Social Forum, the Committee has become a relevant stakeholder in global advocacy for human rights in the city and the Right to the City Throughout its history, the Committee been characterized by facilitating meetings and networking between progressive local authorities, with a special emphasis in the Latin American and European region. Headquartered in Barcelona, the Committee is composed by more than 100 local governments and various partner organizations (among which, the Global Platform for the Right to the City).\n\nThe origins of the Committee lie in the first Local Authorities Forum for Social Inclusion and Participatory Democracy (FAL), a forum for reflection and political discussion made up by progressive local authorities from all over the world, an event which has been held at the same time as the World Social Forum since 2001. In 2005, a year after the creation of the new international organisation of local governments - United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG) - the towns of the FAL decided to establish a more institutionalised working structure within a new organisation. This led to the creation of the Committee on Social Inclusion and Participatory Democracy (CSIPD).\n\nSince its beginnings, the CSIPD has been present at the various FAL events (Caracas, 2005 ; Nairobi, 2007 and Belém do Pará, 2009; Dakar, 2011) and has maintained an ongoing dialogue with international social movements and civil society in the international social forums held in those cities. It has thus become the communication channel between the political debates held in these events and UCLG, and has undertaken its own political initiatives based mainly on two areas: social inclusion and participatory democracy. A third area, human rights, was added to the Committee's work soon afterwards, and was extensively developed with the production of two documents, the Global Charter-Agenda for Human Rights in the City (formally adopted by the Florence UCLG World Council in 2011) and the European Charter for the Safeguarding of Human Rights in the City (Saint-Denis, 2000). As a result, five years after it was established, the Committee on Social Inclusion and Participative Democracy has renamed itself as follows: Committee on Social Inclusion, Participatory Democracy and Human Rights.\n\nThe Committee consists of:\n\n\nBecoming a member of the Committee is free and must be arranged through UCLG’s World Secretariat and the Committee's Executive Technical Secretariat. The Committee aims to ensure balanced geographic representation, and those members not belonging to UCLG will be encouraged to adhere to the organisation.\n\nThe 102 Committee members are the plenary body, which is responsible for defining the general political directives of the Committee. \n\nSpecification and implementation of the political directives will be the responsibility of the Committee’s bureau, which consists of a President, First Vice-president and several Regional Vice-presidents. The Committee will ensure balanced political representation in its bureau. We propose the following governing body for the period 2011 – 2013:\n\nPresident: Barcelona (Spain)\nFirst Vice-president: Saint-Denis / Plaine Commune (France)\nRegional Vice-presidents:\nAfrica: Passy (Senegal)\nLatin America: Guarulhos (Brazil) and Montevideo (Uruguay)\nAsia: Federation of Municipalities of Sri Lanka (Sri Lanka)\nEurope: Aubagne, Nantes (France) and FAMSI (Spain)\nThe President of the Committee is its leading political representative. The First Vice-president will be in charge of the institutional relations of the Committee in general, and will particularly participate at UCLG statutory meetings on behalf of the Committee. The regional vice-presidents will contribute to expanding the work of the Committee in their respective territorial areas and will represent it on a collegiate basis. The members of the bureau will ensure the financing of the Committee. \n\nWorking groups can be created based around the Committee's three areas of work (social inclusion, participatory democracy and human rights) in order to contribute to the development of each one of these areas, and they will support the bureau in the definition and execution of the working plan. Each working group will be chaired by a bureau member. Nowadays the Committee has a working group on Local Economic Development, chaired and coordinated by the FAMSI (Andalucian Fund of Towns for International Solidarity). This group has its own Strategic Plan 2012-2013.\n\nThe Executive Technical Secretary will be responsible for co-ordinating the implementation of the working plan, fostering the 3 groups and organising and following up Committee meetings.\n\nList of members.\n\nThe Committee meets once or twice a year in a plenary session to monitor the progress of its strategic objectives. Committee meetings will take place at the statutory meetings of UCLG (Executive Bureau, World Council or World Congress) or on the occasion of events organised by a city, international network or organisation with which the Committee collaborates. \n\nThe political directives of the Committee will be specified in these meetings, and will be produced using participatory methodologies with decisions reached on the basis of consensus. Members that are unable to attend these meetings will be able to send their contributions in writing to the Executive Technical Secretary, who will be responsible for presenting them at the meeting and duly informing of the decisions taken.\n\nThe Committee's working groups can also convene sectorial meetings, the proposals of which will be notified to the bureau by the Executive Technical Secretary for assessment.\n\nThe working languages of the Committee are Spanish, English and French.\n\nThe 1990s was a milestone in terms of recognition of the role of local governments as pillars of states' democratic quality. Some years later, recognition of cities as key players in the guarantee of human rights in their role of providers of public services and agents responsible for education, health and housing policies would gain ground. This international debate would be translated in the claim for \"the right to the city\", according to which the city is a collective space which belongs to all its residents and which must offer the necessary conditions for a decent life from a social, political, cultural, economic and environmental point of view. As a result of this process, various local human rights charters were adopted from 2000 onwards:\n\n\nThe \"right to a solidarity-based metropolis\" would emerge afterwards intensively and is now being conceptualized.\n\nIn order to contribute to the international promotion of the right to the city, the UCLG Committee on Social Inclusion, Participatory Democracy and Human Rights has drafted the Global Charter-Agenda for Human Rights in the City, an initiative that emerged from the Local Authorities Forum (FAL) for Social Inclusion and Participatory Democracy that took place in Caracas in 2006. Based on the discussions between local governments from around the world that took place in this Forum, a group of experts from various countries wrote a first draft (2007-2008),which was then discussed and amended by elected representatives, experts and representatives of civil society from all over the world (2009-2010).\n\nUnder the leadership initially of Barcelona Provincial Council and subsequently of the city of Nantes and the Pays de la Loire Region, the Global Charter-Agenda has been collectively discussed at several international events, including the last three FALs and World Social Forums (Nairobi, 2007; Belém do Pará, 2009; and Dakar, 2011), the I and II Peripheral Local Authorities Forum (Nanterre, 2006; Getafe, 2010), the 5th World Urban Forum of UN HABITAT (Rio de Janeiro, 2010), the 4th World Forum on Human Rights in Nantes (2010) and the 3rd UCLG World Congress (Mexico City, 2010). Research centers such as the Catalonia Institute for Human Rights (IDHC) and the Social Studies Centre (CES) of Coimbra University have also been involved in this process from the very beginning.\n\nThe added value of the Global Charter-Agenda for Human Rights in the City is that each human right featured in the document is accompanied by an action plan that serves as reference for concrete steps to undertake by local governments. Signatory cities are invited to set up a local agenda with deadlines and indicators in order to assess their efficiency in implementing these rights. The Charter-Agenda will come into effect in each city after a consultation and participation process allowing residents to discuss it and adapt it both to local reality and to the national legal framework; and upon acceptance by a qualified majority of the municipal assembly. The result of this process will be the adoption of a Local Charter-Agenda in each signatory municipality.\n\nIn the current situation of economic crisis and a possible reduction in rights, the Charter-Agenda is a tool for local governments to build more inclusive, democratic and solidarity-based societies in dialogue with urban dwellers. At its meeting in Mexico City in November 2010, the UCLG Executive Bureau recommended the adoption of the Charter-Agenda to the World Council, which will meet in Florence, Italy on 11 December 2011.\n\nThe European Charter for the Safeguarding of Human Rights in the City (Saint Denis, 2000) is the result of the preparatory work initiated in Barcelona in 1998 in the framework of the Conference \"Cities for Human Rights\", which was organised to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Hundreds of Mayors and political representatives participated in the event and united their voice to call for a stronger political acknowledgement as key actors in safeguarding human rights in a highly urbanised world.\n\nParticipating cities adopted the \"Barcelona Engagement\", consisting of a roadmap to draft a political document aimed at fostering the respect, protection and fulfilment of human rights at local level.\n\nDuring the two proceeding years, the European Charter for the Safeguarding of Human Rights in the City was drafted as the result of a plural dialogue between European cities, civil society representatives and human rights experts. The draft was discussed and finally adopted in Saint-Denis in 2000.\nSince then, a European conference is held every two years to share the progress made by signatory cities, more than 400 today, to implement the Charter. The following conferences have been organized to date:\n\n\nAfter the conference in Geneva (2008), the most active cities in the network (Barcelona, Saint-Denis/Plaine Commune, Lyon, Geneva and Nantes) decided to entrust the promotion of the European Charter for the Safeguarding of Human Rights in the City to the world organization of cities, United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG), through its Committee on Social Inclusion, Participatory Democracy and Human Rights.\n\nThe Committee, initially under the political leadership of the Provincial Council of Barcelona (Spain) and subsequently the city of Nantes (France), was working since 2006 on the production of a municipal charter of human rights with a worldwide scope, the Global Charter-Agenda for Human Rights in the City. UCLG formally adopted this charter in 2011 at its World Council in Florence, which was attended by over 400 mayors from all over the world.\n\nThe main differences between the Charter-Agenda and the European Charter lie, on the one hand, in the different geographic scope of each document (one is global, while the other is European) and, on the other hand, in the agenda or local action plan that the Charter-Agenda contains. As a result, in the Global Charter-Agenda for Human Rights in the City each right is accompanied by an action plan that is a benchmark for use by local governments when taking concrete steps for human rights implementation.\n\nThe 1990s was a milestone in terms of recognition of the role of local governments as pillars of states' democratic quality. Some years later, recognition of cities as key players in the guarantee of human rights in their role of providers of public services and agents responsible for education, health and housing policies would gain ground. This international debate would be translated in the claim for \"the right to the city\", according to which the city is a collective space which belongs to all its residents and which must offer the necessary conditions for a decent life from a social, political, cultural, economic and environmental point of view. As a result of this process, various local human rights charters were adopted from 2000 onwards:\n\n\nThe concept of the \"right to a solidarity-based metropolis\" would emerge afterwards intensively in the framework of the Forum of Peripheral Local Authorities (FALP) and is now being developed.\n\nDrafting Process of the Charter-Agenda:\nIn order to contribute to the international promotion of the right to the city, the UCLG Committee on Social Inclusion, Participatory Democracy and Human Rights drafted the Global Charter-Agenda for Human Rights in the City, an initiative that emerged from the Local Authorities Forum for Social Inclusion and Participatory Democracy (FAL) that took place in Caracas in 2006. Based on the discussions between local governments from around the world that took place in this Forum, a group of experts from various countries wrote a first draft (2007-2008), which was then discussed and amended by elected representatives, experts and representatives of civil society from all over the world (2009-2010).\n\nUnder the leadership initially of Barcelona Provincial Council (Diputació de Barcelona) and subsequently of the city of Nantes and the Pays de la Loire Region, the Global Charter-Agenda has been collectively discussed at several international events, including the last three FALs and World Social Forums (Nairobi, 2007; Belém do Pará, 2009; and Dakar, 2011), the I and II FALPs (Nanterre, 2006; Getafe, 2010), the 5th World Urban Forum of UN HABITAT (Rio de Janeiro, 2010), the 4th World Forum on Human Rights in Nantes (2010) and the 3rd UCLG World Congress (Mexico City, 2010). Research centers such as the Catalonia Institute for Human Rights (IDHC) and the Social Studies Centre (CES) of Coimbra University have also been involved in this process from the very beginning.\n\nThe added value of the Global Charter-Agenda for Human Rights in the City is that each human right featured in the document is accompanied by an action plan that serves as reference for concrete steps to undertake by local governments. Signatory cities are invited to set up a local agenda with deadlines and indicators in order to assess their efficiency in implementing these rights. The Charter-Agenda will come into effect in each city after a consultation and participation process allowing residents to discuss it and adapt it both to local reality and to the national legal framework; and upon acceptance by a qualified majority of the municipal assembly. The result of this process will be the adoption of a Local Charter-Agenda in each signatory municipality.\n\nThe World Council of UCLG held in Florence in December 2011 formally adopted the Global Charter-Agenda for Human Rights in the City and invited all UCLG members to sign it. In the current situation of economic crisis and a possible reduction in rights, the Charter-Agenda is a tool for local governments to build more inclusive, democratic and solidarity-based societies in dialogue with urban dwellers.\n\nThe Observatory is a space for analysis and reflection on local social inclusion policies. It contains over sixty case studies on innovative policies for community development, access to basic services, gender equality, environmental protection and the eradication of poverty, among others.\n\nThe initiative has been developed with the scientific support of Prof. Yves Cabannes from the University College of London and a team of researchers from the Centre for Social Studies (CES) at the University of Coimbra, which has worked under the supervision of Prof. Boaventura de Sousa Santos.\n\nThrough this Observatory, the Committee has identified and researched successful experiences that might inspire other cities to design and implement their own social inclusion policies.\n\nThe policies included in the Inclusive Cities Observatory have been the basis for the production of a study on the impact of citizen participation on social inclusion policies. This study has been produced by the IGOP (Institute of Government and Public Policy) of the Autonomous University of Barcelona (Spain).\n\nThe publication that we present contains the policy paper on local social inclusion promoted by the Committee on Social Inclusion, Participative Democracy and Human Rights of United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG). This paper presents the main policy guidelines that cities are recommended to follow when designing and developing public policies for social inclusion. Along the same lines, its objective is to help the position of UCLG on this matter and direct its discourse toward other international agencies and organizations.\n\nThis document was approved by the UCLG World Council, which took place between 27 and 30 November 2008 in Istanbul. It draws on the findings of the \"1st International Seminar on Innovative Local Policies for Social Inclusion\", held in Barcelona on 27 and 28 September 2007, as well as the political discussions that took place within UCLG, through its regional sections and working committees.\n\nThe \"1st International Seminar on Innovative Local Policies for Social Inclusion\" was organized by Barcelona City Council and the Committee on Social Inclusion, with the support of the Catalan Government and the scientific advice of the DPU (Development Planning Unit), University College London. The seminar was attended by representatives of Eldoret (Kenya), Rosario (Argentina), Diyarbakir (Turkey), London (United Kingdom), Belo Horizonte and Porto Alegre (Brazil), Palmela (Portugal), Tacoma (United States), Cotacachi (Ecuador), Barcelona (Spain), Saint-Denis (France) and Bandung (Indonesia). Representatives of these 12 cities, all from very different realities, reported on their various policies of inclusion, while faced with the task of reflecting and deliberating together on three topics: (i) ensuring social justice and rights; (ii) citizen participation and generation of social networks; (iii) planning and sustainability policies.\n\nThe Committee on Social Inclusion, Participative Democracy and Human Rights of UCLG is especially grateful for the key contributions made to the draft of this paper by the Centre for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra, the European Observatory Cities and Towns for All; the cities of Cordoba, Barcelona, Terrassa (Spain), Ecatepec de Morelos (México), Guarulhos (Brazil), Villa El Salvador (Peru), Nanterre, Saint-Denis, Plaine Commune (France), Junín (Argentina), Cotacachi (Ecuador) and Eldoret (Kenya); Malaga Provincial Council (Spain) and the Province of Milan (Italy); the Andalusia cooperation fund FAMSI (Spain), the Forum of Local Authorities (FAL) and the Forum of Peripheral Local Authorities (FALP); the UCLG committees on Peripheral Cities, City Diplomacy, Urban Mobility and Urban Strategic Planning; and UCLG World Secretariat.\n\n"}
{"id": "11535942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11535942", "title": "Conditional sale", "text": "Conditional sale\n\nA conditional sale is a real estate transaction where the parties have set conditions. \n\nA standard real estate transaction usually begins when a prospective purchaser submits an offer to purchase to the vendor of a property. As in a standard offer, a conditional offer sets out the terms of the sale such as the purchase price, the date of closing, the names of the parties, and the amount of any required deposit, but it also stipulates various conditions which must be met in order for the contract to be binding on the parties. These conditions may include approval by a co-purchaser, financing acceptable to the purchaser, the receipt and review of a survey showing that the buildings on the property comply with local zoning regulations, a title search showing no unacceptable liens or encumbrances, confirmation from the current mortgagee that the property is not in foreclosure, and the like. If the offer is accepted by the vendor, the offer to purchase will become a contract binding on the parties when all conditions are satisfied.\n\nAn alternative to a conditional sale is an invitation to treat. Unlike a conditional sale, an invitation to treat does not become binding upon satisfaction of any conditions. Issues arise as to the distinction between actions which constitute an offer or an invitation to treat, especially when the intentions of the parties are not clearly specified at the time.\n"}
{"id": "56245450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56245450", "title": "Council architect", "text": "Council architect\n\nA council architect or municipal architect (properly titled county architect borough architect, city architect or district architect) is an architect employed by a local authority. The name of the position varies depending on the type of local authority and is similar to that of county surveyor or chief engineer used by some authorities. Council architects are employed in the United Kingdom but also used in Malta and Ireland.\n\nThe role was once widespread with many counties, cities and other local authorities employing their own architect to design public works. Council architects acted as designer, client and regulator for their authority, and having significant buying power, they were able to influence suppliers to accommodate their requirements. They worked closely with the council planning department, with whom they were often co-located. In 1953, the London County Council (LCC) employed more than 1,500 people within its architects department.\n\nThe LCC architects were key innovators, with the guaranteed salary and relative anonymity allowing them to develop experimental designs without risk to income or the stigma of failure. The LCC architects department also provided research funding, including for the Survey of London, and had in-house testing and development teams. The smaller scale firms in private practice at the time could not provide such luxuries.\n\nThe trend in recent decades has been for councils to close their architects departments. As of 2015 there were 237 council architects in England, 159 in Scotland and 24 in Wales. The biggest employers are Hampshire (44), Glasgow (18), the Highland Council (13) and Lancashire (11). Despite their predecessors having one of the largest and most active architects departments in the country, no London borough now employs more than five council architects.\n\nOnce closed, a local authority is highly unlikely to revive an architects department and will instead rely on outsourcing to private firms. One exception is the London Borough of Croydon, which re-established a council architect position in 2015. Hampshire County Architects remains the largest council architects department, and is recognized as a leader in its field, winning several awards for its school designs since the 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "3573160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3573160", "title": "Daniel Itzig", "text": "Daniel Itzig\n\nDaniel Itzig (also known as Daniel Yoffe 18 March 1723 in Berlin – 17 May 1799 in Potsdam) was a Court Jew of Kings Frederick II the Great and Frederick William II of Prussia.\n\nItzig was born in Berlin. His family was mercantile. Itzig was a banker and a mintmaster in partnership with Veitel-Heine Ephraim. Together they leased all the mints in Saxony and Prussia. During the Seven Years' War they assisted Frederick the Great in debasing the Saxonian currency and spreading the Ephraimites, not only in Saxony, but also in Silesia, Poland, Bohemia and Courland. \n\nItzig was one of the very few Jews in Prussia to receive full citizenship privileges, as a \"Useful Jew\". He became extraordinarily wealthy as a consequence.\n\nTogether with his son in law David Friedlander, Itzig was appointed to lead a committee which was to discuss ways to improve the Jewish civil and social standing in Prussia, which led to the removal of many restrictions. He funded early members of the Haskalah secular movement, including Rabbi Israel of Zamosch (Moses Mendelsohn's teacher), Samuel Rominow (an Italian Jewish artist) and Isaac Satanow.\n\nIn 1761 he began planning a school for poor Jewish boys in Berlin, and in 1778 his son together with Daniel Friedlander opened the first \"free school\" (Freischule) called \"Hinuch Neorim\", Hebrew for 'Teaching the Young Ones'. The school and adjacent printing house later became one of the main institutions of the Haskalah movement. At the same time he founded and funded a Yeshiva and brought Rabbi Hirschel Levin and Rabbi Joseph ben Meir Teomim to Berlin to teach there.\n\nItzig was the official head ('Oberältester') of the Jewish community in Berlin from 1764 until his death in 1799. He was made the Prussian court banker by Frederick's successor, Frederick William II of Prussia in 1797.\n\nHis wife Miriam Wulff's ancestors included Rabbi Moses Isserles of Cracow and Joseph ben Mordechai Gershon. Many of Itzig's thirteen children (see Itzig family) became influential in German Jewish society. Two of his granddaughters married two of Moses Mendelssohn's sons. One of them was Lea (née Solomon), mother of Felix Mendelssohn and Fanny Hensel, a pianist and composer. By her, Lea was grandmother of mathematician Kurt Hensel.\n\n"}
{"id": "31018614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31018614", "title": "Deutsche Mathematik", "text": "Deutsche Mathematik\n\nDeutsche Mathematik (German Mathematics) was a mathematics journal founded in 1936 by Ludwig Bieberbach and Theodor Vahlen. Vahlen was publisher on behalf of the German Research Foundation (DFG), and Bieberbach was chief editor. Other editors were , Erich Schönhardt, Werner Weber (all volumes), Ernst August Weiß (volumes 1–6), , Wilhelm Süss (volumes 1–5), Günther Schulz , (volumes 1–4), Georg Feigl, Gerhard Kowalewski (volumes 2–6), , Willi Rinow, (volumes 2–5), and Oswald Teichmüller (volumes 3–7). In February 1936, the journal was declared the official organ of the German Student Union (DSt) by its \"Reichsführer\", and all local DSt mathematics departments were requested to subscribe and actively contribute. In the 1940s, issues appeared increasingly delayed and bunched; the journal ended with a triple issue (due Dec 1942) in June 1944.\nDeutsche Mathematik is also the name of a movement closely associated with the journal whose aim was to promote \"German mathematics\" and eliminate \"Jewish influence\" in mathematics, similar to the Deutsche Physik movement. As well as articles on mathematics, the journal published propaganda articles giving the Nazi viewpoint on the relation between mathematics and race (though these political articles mostly disappeared after the first two volumes). As a result of this many mathematics libraries outside Germany did not subscribe to it, so copies of the journal can be hard to find. This caused some problems in Teichmüller theory, as Oswald Teichmüller published several of his foundational papers in the journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "55304994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55304994", "title": "Die Urbane. Eine HipHop Partei", "text": "Die Urbane. Eine HipHop Partei\n\nDie Urbane. Eine HipHop Partei (The Urban. A HipHop Party) is a German political party founded in Berlin in February 2017 which locate themselves within the Hip hop culture. The main goals of the party include first and foremost social justice; their self-proclaimed goal is to achieve equality among all citizens. During the German federal election in September 24, 2017, they were among the parties listed in the federal state of Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "46482228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46482228", "title": "Donald Roulet", "text": "Donald Roulet\n\nDonald Eugene Roulet was a Presbyterian minister, known for involvement in Civil Rights issues within the Presbyterian Church USA. Roulet was a founding member of the Progressive Religion Coalition of Tulsa, an organization that advocates for religious tolerance and inclusion.\n\nDonald Roulet became minister of the First Presbyterian Church of Broken Arrow, Oklahoma in 1963. Through this church, Roulet established community outreach programs in the Tulsa area providing meals to senior citizens, Alcoholics Anonymous and Food Pantry Programs. Most notably, he started the Chow and Chatter Club, which provides weekly lunch to senior citizens. He served on all major committees in the Eastern Oklahoma Presbytery, before retiring in 1991. Following retirement, he served as the Executive Presbyter of the Presbytery of Southern Louisiana. Roulet obtained a Master of Divinity from McCormick Theological Seminary, as well as two Doctoral Degrees in Ministry and Theology.\n\nDonald Eugene Roulet was born in 1936 in Beverly Hills, California. He was a member of the Franco-German Roulet family, a noble family from Alsace. After graduating from Tulsa University, he married his wife Wyneth in November, 1959. They have three grown children, Scott E. Roulet, a media executive, Michelle and Steven.\n\nRoulet was an Honorary Chaplain for the Oklahoma Senate, and an Honorary Mayor of the City of Broken Arrow. He had also been honored by the Louisiana House of Representatives.\n"}
{"id": "5099297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5099297", "title": "Escape clause", "text": "Escape clause\n\nAn escape clause is any clause, term, or condition in a contract that allows a party to that contract to avoid having to perform the contract.\n\nIf an agreement was drawn up for the sale of a house, for example, the purchaser could include some kind of escape clause in the contract, which will allow him to \"escape\" from the contract without being liable for breach of contract.\n\nA \"Subject to a builder's inspection to purchaser's full satisfaction\" clause is one example of an escape clause. This clause effectively allows the purchaser to \"escape\" from the contract if an inspection reveals any irregularities or defects.\n\nAnother example is the \"Subject to 30-day due diligence\" clause, which effectively gives the purchaser a 30-day buffer period to inspect any and all aspects of the property before having to commit to the purchase.\n\nA 72-hour clause is an example of a seller's escape clause that frequently appears in real estate contracts.\n\nThe finance contingency clause: Makes the purchase offer contingent upon the buyer and also the property qualifying for the loan the buyer will need.\n\nEscape clauses, although fulfilling a real and sincere purpose in contracts of all kinds, have the potential of being abused.\n\nFor example, the \"Subject to a builder's inspection to purchaser's full satisfaction\" clause mentioned above can be abused if the buyer contracts a builder and instructs him to find some kind of fault in the property at any cost.\n\nThe buyer, in other words, takes advantage of the escape clause to cancel the agreement because he has buyer remorse, rather than because there is something wrong with the property.\n\nEscape clauses that require a purchaser or an expert representing the purchaser to be satisfied with the goods or services being purchased have been attacked in lawsuits as invalid for lack of consideration. The argument is that a party can always escape such a contract by merely claiming to be unsatisfied. Therefore, there is no real requirement for that party to perform their obligations under the contract (to pay for the goods or services), and an agreement that only requires performance by one party is an illusory promise, void as a contract. Instead, such an agreement constitutes a gift from the performing party to the non-performing party.\n\nCourts have generally held, however, that an escape clause containing a requirement of satisfaction nevertheless creates an enforceable contract, because a court could determine whether a claimed lack of satisfaction was entirely unreasonable, and therefore likely feigned to avoid the contract.\n"}
{"id": "3523864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523864", "title": "Evidence (policy debate)", "text": "Evidence (policy debate)\n\nEvidence in a policy debate competition (sometimes referred to as \"cards\") consists mainly of two parts. The \"cite\" contains all relevant citation information (that is, the author, date of publication, journal, title, etc.). Although every card should contain a complete citation, only the author's name and date of publication are typically spoken aloud in a speech. Some teams will also read the author's qualifications if they wish to emphasize this information. The \"body\" is a fragment of the author's original text. The length of a body can vary greatly—cards can be as short as a few sentences and as long as two or more pages. Most cards are between one and five paragraphs in length. The body of a card is often underlined or highlighted in order to eliminate unnecessary or redundant sentences when the card is read in a round. In a round, the tagline, the debater's summary of the evidence, is read first, followed by the cite and the body.\n\nAs pieces of evidence accumulate use, multiple colors of highlighting and different thicknesses of underlining often accrue, sometimes making it difficult to determine which portion of the evidence was read. If debaters stop before finishing the underlined or highlighted portion of a card, it is considered good form to \"mark\" the card to show where one stopped reading. To otherwise misrepresent how much of a card was read—either by stopping early or by skipping underlined or highlighted sections—is known as \"cross-reading\" or \"clipping cards\", which is generally considered cheating. Although many judges overtly condemn the practice on their paradigms, it is hard to enforce, especially if judges permit debaters to be excessively unclear. Opponents will generally stand behind a debater whom they believe to be \"cross-reading\" though this practice does not necessarily mean they believe the debater is doing so, as if waiting to take a card (see below), and silently read along with them in an attempt to get their opponent to stop or the judge to notice.\n\nAs cards are read in round, it is common for an opponent to collect and examine even while a speech is still going on. This practice originated in part because cards are read at a rate much faster than conversational speed but also because the non-underlined portion of cards is not read in round. Taking the cards during the speech allows the opponent to question the author's qualifications, the original context of the evidence, etc. in cross-examination. It is generally accepted whichever team is using preparation time has priority to read evidence read previously during a round by both teams. As a result, large amounts of evidence may change hands after the use of preparation time but before a speech. Most judges will not deduct from a team's preparation time for time spent finding evidence which the other team has misplaced.\n\nAfter a round, judges often \"call for cards\" to examine evidence whose merit was contested during the round or whose weight was emphasized during rebuttals so that they can read the evidence for themselves. Although widespread, this practice is explicitly banned at some tournaments, most notably National Catholic Forensic League nationals and some judges refuse to call for cards because they believe the practice constitutes \"doing work for debaters that should have been done during round\". Judges may also call for evidence for the purpose of obtaining its citation information so that they can produce the evidence for their own school. Opponents and spectators are also generally allowed to collect citations in this manner and some tournaments send scouts to rounds to facilitate the collection of cites for every team at the tournament, information which is sometimes published online.\n\nMany teams may use other media to present \"evidence\" such as music, pictures, poetry, dance, etc. Using other media to present evidence is considered a performance argument and the team may defend or claim advantages from the presentation itself and not only the substance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2979731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2979731", "title": "Fashad Mohamed", "text": "Fashad Mohamed\n\nFashad Mohamed is an Iraqi who died in custody on April 5, 2004.\nHe is alleged to have been captured, and beaten by SEAL team 7.\nHe was hooded, sleep deprived, and soaked with extremely hot and cold water. When he was finally allowed to sleep he did not wake up.\n\n"}
{"id": "24162448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24162448", "title": "Fraction of Upholders of the Proclamation", "text": "Fraction of Upholders of the Proclamation\n\nThe Fraction of Upholders of the Proclamation was a parliamentary group in the Indonesian People's Representative Council, formed after the 1955 parliamentary election. The group included ten Members of Parliament. The group was politically hetergenous, but was somewhat pro-Masjumi/Socialist Party of Indonesia.\n\nMembers:\n"}
{"id": "3202725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3202725", "title": "Human rights in Laos", "text": "Human rights in Laos\n\nThe situation of human rights in Laos has often been, and remains, a recognized cause for serious concern. Laos is one a handful of Marxist-Leninist governments and is ruled by a one-party communist government backed by the Lao People's Army in alliance with the Vietnam People's Army and Socialist Republic of Vietnam in Hanoi.\n\nAmnesty International, The Centre for Public Policy Analysis, the United League for Democracy in Laos, Human Rights Watch, the Lao Human Rights Council and other non-governmental organizations (NGO)s have raised repeated serious concerns about the ratification record of the Laos Government on human rights standards and its lack of cooperation with the UN human rights mechanisms and legislative measures which impact negatively on human rights. They have also raised concerns in relation to disappeared civic activist Sombath Somphone, and jailed and tortured political and religious dissidents, military attacks on unarmed civilians, as well as the lack of freedom of expression, torture, poor prison conditions, restrictions on freedom of religions, protection of refugees and asylum-seekers, extrajudicial killing and rape by the Lao People's Army and security forces and the improper use of the death penalty.\n\nThe policy objectives of both the Lao communist government and international donors remain focused toward achieving sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction, but restrictions on freedom of expression and association are a source of concern. The barring of independent human rights monitors makes an exact appraisal of the situation impossible. In particular, the situation for groups of ethnic Hmong hiding in the jungle remains grave and leads to a steady stream of people taking refuge in neighboring Thailand. The death penalty remains in force, although no executions have been reported since 1989.\n\nThe U.S. State Department reports on human rights around the world declare that most Lao trials in 2003 were little more than pro forma examinations of the accused, with a verdict having already been reached. The State Department indicated that in some instances police administratively overruled court decisions, at times detaining a defendant exonerated by the court, in violation of the law. Moreover, while Lao law prohibits torture, members of the security forces reportedly subjected prisoners to torture and other abuses. A significant issue in human rights in Laos is the presence of anti-government rebels, mainly of the Hmong ethnic minority, who have reportedly been harshly treated by the Lao government. In its 2006 report the State Department mentions that \"The government's overall human rights record worsened during the year.\" For more details see the report (link given below under \"see also\").\n\nOfficially, and in theory, the Constitution that was promulgated in 1991 under the Stalinist government contains most key safeguards for human rights. For example, in Article 8 it makes it clear that Laos is a multiethnic state and is committed to equality between ethnic groups. The Constitution also has provisions for gender equality and freedom of religion, for freedom of speech, press and assembly.\n\nOn 25 September 2009, Laos ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, nine years after signing the treaty. The policy objectives of both the Lao government and international donors remain focused toward achieving sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction. However, systemic corruption, and illegal logging also remains a serious problem among Lao government and military officials according to Transparency International and others.\n\nHowever, according to Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, the Center for Public Policy Analysis, the United League for Democracy in Laos, the Lao Human Rights Council, the Lao Veterans of America Institute, and many human rights organizations, non-governmental organizations, and policy experts, the reality in Laos is quite different, and the Marxist government generally does not abide by its own Constitution. The Lao government in Vientiane has been frequently condemned by the US Congress, United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination, European Parliament and human rights advocates, especially in light of the imprisonment of pro-democracy Lao student leaders in October 1999, the persecution of Hmong refugees and asylum seekers and the recent abduction and disappearance of civil society leader Sombath Somphone.\n\nThe Lao government maintains very close relations with the government of North Korea and its military.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2009, at least 39 people were sentenced to death. 50 more people were sentenced to death in the year 2010.\n\nThere are many individual cases of human rights violations in Laos according to NGOs and human rights advocates.\n\nFor example, two former high-ranking government officials whose imprisonment for expressing dissident political views had been much publicized by international human rights groups were released in October 2004. A third dissident sentenced along with them died in prison in 1998. The three men had been arrested in 1990 for expressing concern about government policies and advocating economic and political reforms.\n\nIn October 1999, 30 young people were arrested for attempting to display posters calling for peaceful economic, political and social change in Laos. Five of them were arrested and subsequently sentenced to up to 10 years imprisonment on charges of treason. One has since died due to his treatment by prison guards, while one has been released. The surviving three men should have been released by October 2009, but their whereabouts remains unknown.\n\nIn 2004, a Lao Hmong refugee photographed and then smuggled video footage out of Laos of an alleged incident in which Lao government troops raped and murdered four young Hmong girls and one boy, then mutilated their bodies .\nHe denies claims by the Lao government that the video was a fabrication.\n\nThe government of Laos has been accused of committing genocide against that country’s Hmong ethnic minority. Some Hmong groups fought as CIA-backed units on the Royalist side in the Laos civil war. After the Pathet Lao took over the country in 1975, the conflict continued in isolated pockets. In 1977 a communist newspaper promised the party would hunt down the “American collaborators” and their families “to the last root”.\n\nAs many as 200,000 Hmong went into exile in Thailand, with many ending up in the U.S. A number of Hmong fighters hid out in mountains in Xiangkhouang Province for many years, with a remnant emerging from the jungle in 2003.\n\nLaos and Vietnamese troops were reported to have raped and killed four Christian Hmong women in Xieng Khouang province in 2011, according to US NGO The Centre for Public Policy Analysis. CPPA also said other Christian and independent Buddhist and animist believers were being persecuted.\n\nAmnesty International and other NGOs, journalists and human rights advocates have documented the Lao People's Army's attacks on unarmed Hmong civilians in Laos.\n\nIn 1989, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), with the support of the United States government, instituted the Comprehensive Plan of Action, a program to stem the tide of Indochinese refugees from Laos, Vietnam, and Cambodia. Under the plan, the status of the refugees was to be evaluated through a screening process. Recognized asylum seekers were to be given resettlement opportunities, while the remaining refugees were to be repatriated under guarantee of safety.\n\nAfter talks with the UNHCR and the Thai government, Laos agreed to repatriate the 60,000 Lao refugees living in Thailand, including several thousand Hmong people. Very few of the Lao refugees, however, were willing to return voluntarily. Pressure to resettle the refugees grew as the Thai government worked to close its remaining refugee camps. While some Hmong people returned to Laos voluntarily, with development assistance from UNHCR, allegations of forced repatriation surfaced. Of those Hmong who did return to Laos, some quickly escaped back to Thailand, describing discrimination and brutal treatment at the hands of Lao authorities.\n\nIn 1993, Vue Mai, a former Hmong soldier who had been recruited by the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok to return to Laos as proof of the repatriation program's success, disappeared in Vientiane. According to the U.S. Committee for Refugees, he was arrested by Lao security forces and was never seen again.\n\nFollowing the Vue Mai incident, debate over the Hmong's planned repatriation to Laos intensified greatly, especially in the U.S., where it drew strong opposition from many American conservatives and some human rights advocates. In an October 23, 1995 \"National Review\" article, Michael Johns, the former Heritage Foundation foreign policy expert and Republican White House aide, labeled the Hmong's repatriation a Clinton administration \"betrayal,\" describing the Hmong as a people \"who have spilled their blood in defense of American geopolitical interests.\" Debate on the issue escalated quickly. In an effort to halt the planned repatriation, the Republican-led U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives both appropriated funds for the remaining Thailand-based Hmong to be immediately resettled in the U.S.; Clinton, however, responded by promising a veto of the legislation.\n\nIn their opposition of the repatriation plans, Republicans also challenged the Clinton administration's position that the Laotian government was not systematically violating Hmong human rights. U.S. Representative Steve Gunderson (R-WI), for instance, told a Hmong gathering: \"I do not enjoy standing up and saying to my government that you are not telling the truth, but if that is necessary to defend truth and justice, I will do that.\" Republicans also called several Congressional hearings on alleged persecution of the Hmong in Laos in an apparent attempt to generate further support for their opposition to the Hmong's repatriation to Laos.\n\nAlthough some accusations of forced repatriation were denied, thousands of Hmong people refused to return to Laos. In 1996, as the deadline for the closure of Thai refugee camps approached, and under mounting political pressure, the U.S. agreed to resettle Hmong refugees who passed a new screening process. Around 5,000 Hmong people who were not resettled at the time of the camp closures sought asylum at Wat Tham Krabok, a Buddhist monastery in central Thailand where more than 10,000 Hmong refugees were already living. The Thai government attempted to repatriate these refugees, but the Wat Tham Krabok Hmong refused to leave and the Lao government refused to accept them, claiming they were involved in the illegal drug trade and were of non-Lao origin.\n\nIn 2003, following threats of forcible removal by the Thai government, the U.S., in a significant victory for the Hmong, agreed to accept 15,000 of the refugees. Several thousand Hmong people, fearing forced repatriation to Laos if they were not accepted for resettlement in the U.S., fled the camp to live elsewhere within Thailand where a sizable Hmong population has been present since the 19th century.\n\nIn 2004 and 2005, thousands of Hmong fled from the jungles of Laos to a temporary refugee camp in the Thai province of Phetchabun. These Hmong refugees, many of whom are descendants of the former-CIA Secret Army and their relatives, claim that they have been attacked by both the Lao and Vietnamese military forces operating inside Laos as recently as June 2006. The refugees claim that attacks against them have continued almost unabated since the war officially ended in 1975, and have become more intense in recent years.\n\nLending further support to earlier claims that the government of Laos was persecuting the Hmong, filmmaker Rebecca Sommer documented first-hand accounts in her documentary, \"Hunted Like Animals\", and in a comprehensive report which includes summaries of claims made by the refugees and was submitted to the U.N. in May 2006.\n\nThe European Union, UNHCHR, and international groups have since spoken out about the forced repatriation. The Thai foreign ministry has said that it will halt deportation of Hmong refugees held in Detention Centers Nong Khai, while talks are underway to resettle them in Australia, Canada, the Netherlands and the United States.\n\nFor the time being, countries willing to resettle the refugees are hindered to proceed with immigration and settlement procedures because the Thai administration does not grant them access to the refugees. Plans to resettle additional Hmong refugees in the U.S. have been complicated by provisions of President George W. Bush's Patriot Act and Real ID Act, under which Hmong veterans of the Secret War, who fought on the side of the United States, are classified as terrorists because of their historical involvement in armed conflict.\n\nOn December 27, 2009, \"The New York Times\" reported that the Thai military was preparing to forcibly return 4,000 Hmong asylum seekers to Laos by the end of the year: the BBC later reported that repatriations had started. Both United States and United Nations officials have protested this action. Outside government representatives have not been allowed to interview this group over the last three years. Médecins Sans Frontières has refused to assist the Hmong refugees because of what they have called \"increasingly restrictive measures\" taken by the Thai military. The Thai military jammed all cellular phone reception and disallowed any foreign journalists from the Hmong camps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12235081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12235081", "title": "Human rights in Ukraine", "text": "Human rights in Ukraine\n\nHuman rights in Ukraine is a highly contested topic and in 2018 Ukraine was labeled as \"Partly Free\" by organizations such as Freedom House. \n\nAccording to Freedom House the human rights situation significantly improved in the aftermath of the Euromaidan revolution in 2014. The country received better ratings for political pluralism, parliamentary elections, and government transparency. As of 2015 the country is labelled \"Partly Free\". According to the OSCE, as of 2015 the elections in Ukraine generally respect democratic process, but additional efforts needed to enhance public confidence. \n\nAccording to the last report by Human Rights Watch organization both sides are violating laws of war during ongoing War in Donbass, the government imposed excessive restrictions on freedom of media and the sexual diversity is not fullly respected. On 21 May 2015 the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine has passed a resolution declaring the suspension of conventions for Human Rights in the eastern Donbass region.\n\nUkraine signed but not yet ratified\n\n\nUkraine had been labeled as \"free\" by organizations such as Freedom House in 2009. In their report they stated: \"Ukraine has one of the most vibrant civil societies in the region. Citizens are increasingly taking issues into their own hands, protesting against unwanted construction, and exposing corruption. There were no limits seen on NGO activities. Trade unions function, but strikes and worker protests were infrequently observed, even though dissatisfaction with the state of economic affairs was pervasive in the fall of 2008. Factory owners were seen as still able to pressure their workers to vote according to the owners’ preferences.\" \n\nOn 20 October 2009 experts from the Council of Europe stated \"in the last five years the experts from the Council of Europe who monitor Ukraine have expressed practically no concerns regarding the important [process of the] formation of a civil society in Ukraine. Ukraine is one of the democratic states in Europe that is securing human rights as a national policy, as well as securing the rights of national minorities.\" According to Human Rights Watch (HRW), \"while civil society institutions operate mostly without government interference, police abuse and violations of the rights of vulnerable groups … continue to mar Ukraine's human rights record.\"\n\nAfter the early 2010 election of President Viktor Yanukovych international organizations start to voice their concern. According to Freedom House, \"Ukraine under President Yanukovych has become less democratic and, if current trends are left unchecked, may head down a path toward autocracy and kleptocracy.\" Among the recent negative developments, they mentioned \"a more restrictive environment for the media, selective prosecution of opposition figures, worrisome intrusiveness by the Security Service of Ukraine, widely criticized local elections in October 2010 … and erosion of basic freedoms of assembly and speech.\" This led Freedom House to downgrade Ukraine from \"Free\" to \"Partly Free\" in \"Freedom in the World 2011\". Also in 2011 Amnesty International spoke of \"an increase in the number of allegations of torture and ill treatment in police custody, restrictions on the freedom of speech and assembly, as well as mass manifestations of xenophobia\".\n\nIn Reporters Without Borders Press Freedom Index 2010 Ukraine had fallen from 89th place to 131. Neighboring Russia's press freedom was ranked at position 140. The International Federation for Human Rights called Ukraine \"one of the countries seeing the most serious violations against human rights activists\" in December 2011.\n\nAs of 17 January 2013 Ukraine lost all of its 211 cases at the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nAmendments to the constitution, which came into force, were detrimental for fair trial in that they re-introduced the so-called general supervision by the prosecutor's office. Other serious problems included lengthy periods for review of cases because the courts were overloaded; infringement of equality of arms; non-observance of the presumption of innocence; the failure to execute court rulings; and high level of corruption in courts. Independent lawyers and human rights activists have complained Ukrainian judges regularly come under pressure to hand down a certain verdict.\n\nAccording to Freedom House the judiciary has become more efficient and less corrupt since the Orange Revolution.\n\nRecent (since 2010) trails of high-profile political figures Yulia Tymoshenko, Yuriy Lutsenko, Igor Didenko, Anatoliy Makarenko and Valeriy Ivaschenko have been described by the European Commission, the United States and other international organizations as \"unfair, untransparent and not independent\" and \"selective prosecution of political opponents\". President Viktor Yanukovych stated late February 2012 these trails \"didn't meet European standards and principles\".\n\nIn 2007, in Ukraine's provinces numerous, anonymous attacks and threats persisted against journalists, who investigated or exposed corruption or other government misdeeds. The US-based Committee to Protect Journalists concluded in 2007 that these attacks, and police reluctance in some cases to pursue the perpetrators, were \"helping to foster an atmosphere of impunity against independent journalists.\"\n\nUkraine's ranking in Reporters Without Borders's Press Freedom Index has in the latest years been around the 90th spot (89 in 2009, 87 in 2008), while it occupied the 112th spot in 2002 and even the 132nd spot in 2004.\n\nSince Viktor Yanukovych was elected President of Ukraine in February 2010 Ukrainian journalists and international journalistic watchdogs have complained about a deterioration of press freedom in Ukraine. Yanukovych responded (in May 2010) that he \"deeply values press freedom\" and that \"free, independent media that must ensure society's unimpeded access to information\". Anonymous journalists stated early May 2010 that they were voluntarily tailoring their coverage so as not to offend the Yanukovych administration and the Azarov Government. The Azarov Government denies censoring the media, so did the Presidential Administration and President Yanukovych himself.\n\nThe ongoing crisis in Ukraine has resulted in a major threat to press freedom in recent months. A May 2014 report from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) stated that there were approximately 300 instances of violent attacks on the media in Ukraine since November 2013.\n\nA crackdown on what authorities describe as \"pro-separatist\" points of view has triggered dismay among Western human rights monitors. For example, the 11 September 2014 shutdown of newspaper by the Ukrainian Security Service for \"violating Ukraine's territorial integrity\" brought swift condemnation from the Committee to Protect Journalists and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe.\n\nUkraine has also shut down several television stations operated by Russia on the grounds that they purvey propaganda. In February 2017 the Ukrainian government banned the commercial importation of books from Russia, which had accounted for up to 60% of all titles sold.\n\nAmnesty International has appealed for the release of Ukrainian journalist Ruslan Kotsababy and declared him a prisoner of conscience.\n\nReports of torture and ill-treatment by police persisted during 2007 year, as did unduly long periods of pretrial custody. Of major concern were the inhumane conditions in detention with overcrowded cells, appalling sanitary conditions and the lack of appropriate medical care. During the year numerous group suicide attempts took place in some penal colonies.\n\nNew evidence of torture was published since May 2016. According to Ivan Šimonović, UN assistant secretary-general for human rights, as published by The Times, both Ukrainian authorities and the authorities of separatist Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics allow torture and run secret jails, and \"disregard for human rights\" had become entrenched and systemic. The New York Times reports that, after an exchange of prisoners, some detainees have left Ukrainian jails with visible injuries. On 25 May 2016, the United Nations Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture (SPT) suspended its visit to Ukraine after the government had denied it access to places in several parts of the country where it suspects these secret jails were located.\n\nThe Ukrainian government has taken a number of positive steps to fight HIV/AIDS, chiefly in the area of legislative and policy reform. But these important commitments are being undermined in the criminal justice and health systems by widespread human rights abuses against drug users, sex workers, and people living with HIV/AIDS.\n\nThe Ukrainian asylum system barely functions due to a highly decentralized structure spanning several government agencies and departments. The process of creating a single migration system has been slow; political interference in the system is common and abuses of migrants and asylum seekers' rights continue.\n\nThere has been a growing awareness of human trafficking as a human rights issue in Europe. The end of communism has contributed to an increase in human trafficking, with the majority of victims being women forced into prostitution. In 2013 Ukraine was a country of origin and country of transit for persons, primarily women and children, trafficked for the purpose of sexual exploitation and forced labor. Charcoal production and pornography have been listed in the U.S. Department of Labor's \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" under the country of Ukraine in December 2014. The Government of Ukraine has shown some commitment to combat trafficking, but has been criticized for not fully complying with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking, and for inadequate trafficking prevention efforts.\n\nViolence against women is an entrenched social problem in Ukrainian culture engendered by traditional male and female stereotypes. It was not recognized during Soviet era, but in recent decades the issue became an important topic of discussion in Ukrainian society and among academic scholars. According to the estimation of OSCE the violence towards women is widespread in Ukraine and it is associated with three times more deaths than the ongoing armed conflict in the eastern provinces of the country.\n\nIn 2017 a new law on education has been adopted by Ukrainian government to reform the education system. The language provisions of the law made it highly controversial both locally and in neighboring states, as it envisages that all secondary education will be taught in Ukrainian. According to the law an instruction in minority languages at kindergarten and primary school level remains unaffected, but at the secondary level national minority languages are now being reduced to special lessons. The approval of the legislation provoked a harsh reaction in Hungary, Romania, Russia, Poland, Bulgaria and some other countries. For example, Romanian parliament approved declaration criticizing the law and warned that Ukraine cannot go far toward EU integration without a respect to the linguistic rights of national minorities. \n\nUkrainian authorities have submitted the law for review by the Venice Commission, a body which rules on rights and democracy disputes in Europe. In an opinion adopted formally the commission said that \"the strong domestic and international criticism drawn especially by the provisions reducing the scope of education in minority languages seems justified\".\n\nDuring the ongoing warfare in Donbass, Ukraine has lost control over the territories of Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic and therefore suspended its human right obligations there. On 21 May 2015 the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine has passed a resolution declaring that it has withdrawn from some of the obligations stipulated in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights(articles 2, 9, 12, 14, 17), the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms(articles 5, 6, 8, 13) and European Social Charter(articles 1 p. 2, 4 p. 2-3, 8 p. 1, 14 p. 1, 15,16,17 p. 1a p. 1c, 23,30, 31 p. 1-2) at the Donbass region until \"Russia cease its aggression in eastern Ukraine\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1814700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1814700", "title": "Intelligent designer", "text": "Intelligent designer\n\nAn intelligent designer, also referred to as an intelligent agent, is the hypothetical willed and self-aware entity that the intelligent design movement argues had some role in the origin and/or development of life. The term \"intelligent cause\" is also used, implying their teleological supposition of direction and purpose in features of the universe and of living things.\n\nThe popularly termed intelligent design movement is a neo-creationist campaign that arose out of the Christian fundamentalist creation science movement. Proponents of intelligent design argue to the public that their concept does not posit the identity of the designer as part of this effort, but in statements to their constituency, which consists largely of Christian conservatives, they identify the designer as God. The Discovery Institute has claimed that university criticism of intelligent design is tantamount to \"endorsement of an anti-religious view\"\n\nWilliam Dembski states in his book \"Design Inference\" that the nature of the intelligent designer cannot be inferred from intelligent design and suggests that the designer, if one is even necessary for design inference, may or may not be \"the God of Scripture.\" In December 2007 Dembski told Focus on the Family, \"I believe God created the world for a purpose. The Designer of intelligent design is, ultimately, the Christian God.\"\n\nSome leading intelligent design proponents have stated identifying or characterizing the designer is beyond the scope of intelligent design as a line of inquiry. Proponents had hoped that, by avoiding invoking creation by a specific supernatural entity, (such as that employed by creation science), intelligent design would be considered scientific and not violate the establishment clause of the US constitution. Proponents feared that were intelligent design identified as a restatement of previous forms of creationism, it would be precluded from being taught in public schools after the 1987 Supreme Court of the United States decision in \"Edwards vs Aguillard\". This line of reasoning was not particularly persuasive to most in the scientific community, which overwhelmingly rejected intelligent design as both a line of scientific inquiry and as a basis for a sound education in science.\n\nOn December 20, 2005 federal district court ruled in \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" that intelligent design was not science and was essentially religious in nature. The ruling not only rendered that public school district's endorsement of intelligent design as an alternative to evolution in science classes unconstitutional\non the grounds that its inclusion violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, but validated the objections of critics who discounted proponents' claim that the identity was not God.\n\nHighlighting these mutually exclusive claims about the designer, Dembski, despite having said that the intelligent designer or designers could be any god or gods, or even space aliens, has also said that \"intelligent design should be understood as the evidence that God has placed in nature to show that the physical world is the product of intelligence and not simply the result of mindless material forces\" and that \"Intelligent design is just the Logos theology of John's Gospel restated in the idiom of information theory.\"\n\nMichael Behe, in his book Darwin's Black Box, suggested the designer might be a time traveling cell biologist.\n\nAt various times, leading proponents in the intelligent design movement have clearly expressed that they consider the Abrahamic God \"Elohim\" in his role as a creator God, to be the intelligent designer and denied that intelligent designer is God, depending on which audience they are addressing. One example is William Dembski, who on his blog in response to the question \"Is the designer responsible for biological complexity God?\" said \"not necessarily\" and \"To ask who or what is the designer of a particular object is to ask for the immediate intelligent agent responsible for its design. The point is that God is able to work through derived or surrogate intelligences, which can be anything from angels to organizing principles embedded in nature.\" Yet to the intelligent design movement's conservative Christian constituents Dembski has said \"intelligent design should be understood as the evidence that God has placed in nature to show that the physical world is the product of intelligence and not simply the result of mindless material forces. This evidence is available to all apart from the special revelation of God in salvation history as recounted in Scripture. ... Intelligent design makes it impossible to be an intellectually fulfilled atheist. This gives intelligent design incredible traction as a tool for apologetics, opening up the God-question to individuals who think that science has buried God\" and \"Thus, in its relation to Christianity, intelligent design should be viewed as a ground-clearing operation that gets rid of the intellectual rubbish that for generations has kept Christianity from receiving serious consideration.\" Stephen C. Meyer, founder and leader of the intelligent design program of the Discovery Institute admitted on national television he believes that the designer is God.\n\nPhillip E. Johnson, considered the father of the ID movement has stated the goal of the intelligent design movement:\nThe Discovery Institute's leaked Wedge document sets out the movement's governing goals, including:\nOpinion as to the amount of creation the intelligent designer has done varies within the ID movement. Michael Behe's concept of irreducible complexity has natural selection accounting for most of evolution but the intelligent designer contributing the design of some proteins. Others in the ID movement however contest concepts such as common descent, particularly of humans and other apes. Though most in the ID movement seem to be Old Earth Creationists, a few are Young Earth Creationists who believe in ex-nihilo.\n\nThe amount of creation that the intelligent designer did has also been criticised by Young Earth Creationists as not being specific enough, and particularly contradicting their beliefs of Biblical inerrancy and a young earth. Some intelligent design proponents say the intelligent designer fine-tuned the universe's physical constants in such a way that life is the result of the universe's physical constants being related to one another in a fashion that permits life to exist. The fine-tuned universe argument is a central premise or presented as a given in many of the published works of prominent intelligent design proponents, such as William A. Dembski and Michael Behe.\n\nIntelligent design has been presented by its proponents as a \"big tent\" strategy into which several accounts of creation can fit. Were a \"scientific\" version of intelligent design approved for inclusion in public school science curricula, then a path would be opened for discussion of alternatives to not only natural selection but naturalism as well, and eventually religious accounts on the origin of life. The vast majority of scientists reject the concept of intelligent design and an intelligent designer. Instead, the most widely accepted explanation is that physical processes such as natural selection can account for the complexity of life and other phenomena and features of the universe. Attempts to insert theories of intelligent design into public school science curricula fits in with the intelligent design movement's social aims, via the overturning of Western secularism as detailed in the Wedge strategy. The concept of the intelligent designer has been criticised as a God-of-the-gaps argument. Introducing the hypothesis of an intelligent designer introduces the unsolved problem of accounting for the origin of such a designer (first cause).\n\nBy raising the question of the need for a designer for objects with irreducible complexity, intelligent design also raises the question, \"what designed the designer?\" Richard Dawkins has argued that \"If complex organisms demand an explanation, so does a complex designer. And it's no solution to raise the theologian's plea that God (or the intelligent designer) is simply immune to the normal demands of scientific explanation,\" since such an answer would be unscientific. With religious creationism, the question \"what created God?\" can be answered with theological arguments, but in intelligent design, the chain of designers can be followed back indefinitely in an infinite regression, leaving the question of the creation of the first designer dangling. As a result, intelligent design does not explain how the complexity happened in the first place; it just moves it.\n\nElliott Sober says that by intelligent design's own arguments, a designer capable of creating irreducible complexity must also be irreducibly complex: \"Any mind in nature that designs and builds an irreducibly complex system is itself irreducibly complex\" Sober says that this an argument that intelligent design proponents still need to respond to.\n\nIf intelligent design proponents invoke an uncaused causer or deity to resolve this problem, they contradict a fundamental assumption of intelligent design that design requires a designer and reduce intelligent design to religious creationism. Another possible counter-argument might be an infinite regression of designers. However, admitting infinite numbers of objects also allows any arbitrarily improbable event to occur, such as an object with \"specific\" complexity assembling itself by chance. Again, this contradicts a fundamental assumption of intelligent design that a designer is needed for every specifically complex object, producing a logical contradiction.\n\nCritics contend the claim that positing a designer which explains gaps in our understanding yet does not need to be itself explained as not a contribution to knowledge but as a thought-terminating cliché.\n\nIn 2005, intelligent design proponents arguments regarding the identity of a designer became an issue considered by the court in \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", the \"Dover trial,\" where plaintiffs successfully argued that intelligent design is a form of creationism, and that the school board policy requiring the presentation of intelligent design as an alternative to evolution as an \"explanation of the origin of life\" thus violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. In his ruling, the judge, John E. Jones III, stated\nJones also commented that the appearance of design is subjective:\n\nThe judge ruled that \"ID cannot uncouple itself from its creationist, and thus religious, antecedents\" and \"that ID is an interesting theological argument, but that it is not science.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14005182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14005182", "title": "Inter-protocol exploitation", "text": "Inter-protocol exploitation\n\nInter-protocol exploitation is a class of security vulnerabilities that takes advantage of interactions between two communication protocols, for example the protocols used in the Internet. It is commonly discussed in the context of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). This attack uses the potential of the two different protocols meaningfully communicating commands and data.\n\nIt was popularized in 2007 and publicly described in research of the same year. The general class of attacks that it refers to has been known since at least 1994 (see the Security Considerations section of RFC 1738).\n\nInternet protocol implementations allow for the possibility of encapsulating exploit code to compromise a remote program which uses a different protocol. Inter-protocol exploitation can utilize inter-protocol communication to establish the preconditions for launching an inter-protocol exploit. For example, this process could negotiate the initial authentication communication for a vulnerability in password parsing. Inter-protocol exploitation is where one protocol attacks a service running a different protocol. This is a legacy problem because the specifications of the protocols did not take into consideration an attack of this type.\n\nThe two protocols involved in the vulnerability are termed the carrier and target. The carrier encapsulates the commands and/or data. The target protocol is used for communication to the intended victim service. Inter-protocol communication will be successful if the carrier protocol can encapsulate the commands and/or data sufficiently to meaningfully communicate to the target service.\n\nTwo preconditions need to be met for successful communication across protocols: encapsulation and error tolerance. The carrier protocol must encapsulate the data and commands in a manner that the target protocol can understand. It is highly likely that the resulting data stream with induce parsing errors in the target protocol.\n\nThe target protocol be must be sufficiently forgiving of errors. During the inter-protocol connection it is likely that a percentage of the communication will be invalid and cause errors. To meet this precondition, the target protocol implementation must continue processing despite these errors.\n\nOne of the major points of concern is the potential for this attack vector to reach through firewalls and DMZs. Inter-protocol exploits can be transmitted over HTTP and launched from web browsers on an internal subnet. An important point is the web browser is not exploited through any conventional means.\n\nJavaScript delivered over HTTP and communicating over the IRC protocol.\nKnown examples of the vulnerability were also demonstrated on files constructed to be valid HTML code and BMP image at the same time.\n\n"}
{"id": "37966592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37966592", "title": "Jonathan Goodwin (entrepreneur)", "text": "Jonathan Goodwin (entrepreneur)\n\nJonathan (Jonnie) Goodwin (born November 1972) is a British banker and investor. He is one of the founding partners of Lepe Partners, an international and independent merchant bank focused on the media, internet and technology sectors. With Brent Hoberman, Goodwin also co-founded Founders Forum, a network of digital entrepreneurs, corporate CEOs and senior investors.\n\nHe is also Treasurer of the Centre for Policy Studies and a member of the Advisory Board on Planning and Development at the Victoria and Albert Museum. He is a former head of the investment pillar of the British Fashion Council. \n\nThe \"Financial Times\" has described Goodwin as \"...one of London's best-connected media dealmakers.\" He has advised on more than 100 media deals, together worth over $20 billion. They include Chris Evans' purchase of Virgin Radio, the sale of Friends Reunited to ITV, the sale of \"Who Wants To Be A Millionaire\" and the merger of property websites Findaproperty.com, Primelocation.com and Zoopla. Recent M&A advisory projects include News Corps' £220m purchase of Wireless Group plc.\n\nGoodwin has featured in \"GQ Magazine's\" \"100 Most Connected Men 2014\" and also in the 2014 \"Wired 100\" list of Europe's top digital influencers.\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Nottingham, Goodwin worked briefly at Coopers and Lybrand, where for one assignment he was asked to compile two reports. One report was to be on a \"fascinating\" proposed deal in the media sector, the other involved research into car component manufacturers; at that moment Goodwin realised he would \"...prefer castration\" to car parts: “Every deal I’ve worked on has been in and around the media sector since then,” he told \"The Telegraph\" in 2012.\n\nGoodwin then spent a year at private equity group Apax Partners, before leaving to join a News Corporation/Liberty Media-backed buyout of Talk Radio in 1997. He was appointed managing director of Talk Radio, which went on to become the foundation for The Wireless Group PLC, for which Goodwin was Group managing director under Kelvin Mackenzie.\n\nIn 2000 Goodwin and Julian Culhane co-founded LongAcre Partners, a corporate finance boutique. LongAcre worked with Elisabeth Murdoch, helping to build her TV production business Shine via a series of acquisitions. LongAcre was also involved in the £175m sale of Friends Reunited to ITV. LongAcre's investors included the law firm Olswang and private equity house Corsair. In 2007 LongAcre was sold to US investment bank Jefferies. Goodwin remained at Jeffries as Head of Global Technology, Media and Telecommunications until 2010.\n\nIn 2011 Goodwin and Culhane co-founded Lepe Partners a merchant bank focused on the media internet and technology sectors. The company was named after a hamlet and beach in Hampshire where Goodwin spends his weekends.\n\nIn addition to its advisory work, Lepe operates a venture growth fund which provides capital and strategic support to late stage venture growth opportunities in industry verticals. The fund is structured as a pledge fund based on annual commitments, with deals sourced through Lepe's business contacts.Lepe's portfolio includes: Pharmacy2U, Boat International Media, CreativeLive, Masabi, and Festicket. The fund successfully exited its investment in Wahanda (now Treatwell) in 2015, following a sale of the business to Recruit Holding. Lepe has advised on investment deals for News Corp, Ministry of Sound and TalkTalk.\n\nIn 2006 Goodwin and Hoberman created Founders Forum, an invitation-only network for digital entrepreneurs, corporate CEOs and senior investors. The Forum has 1500 members and has become known as a Europe-based equivalent of Sun Valley, the Allen & Co retreat for media executives in the US. Speakers and attendees at previous Forum meetings include Sir Richard Branson, Arianna Huffington, Eric Schmidt, Reid Hoffman, Sean Parker, Niklas Zennstrom, Mikitani Hiroshi, Ben Horowitz, Natalie Massenet, Charles Dunstone, Tony Fadell, Natalie Vodianova, Jessica Alba, Peter Gabriel, Ashton Kutcher, Jeffrey Katzenberg, Daniel Ek and Ari Emanuel.\n\nEvents are currently held in London, Paris, Madrid, Istanbul, Los Angeles, New York City, Rio de Janeiro, Mumbai, New Delhi, Qingdao and Singapore. In 2013 the \"Financial Times\" announced a media partnership with the Forum, presenting two awards at that year's London event.\n\nAlso in 2013, Founders Forum and the British Government's UK Trade & Investment arm created the Technology Innovators' Forum (TIF-IN), which connects new UK businesses with influential heads of content, media and finance companies worldwide.\n\nIn 2009 Goodwin, Hoberman and other partners co-founded PROfounders Capital, an early stage fund backed by entrepreneurs for digital entrepreneurs. One of its first investments was UK-based TweetDeck, the online application sold two years later to Twitter for $40m.\n\nFounders Forum has launched a number of initiatives under the Founders aegis, including the executive search arm Founders Keepers and the strategic consultancy Founders Intelligence.\n\nIn June 2015 Goodwin co-launched Founders Pledge, a UK- and US-registered charity to enable tech entrepreneurs to commit to donating at least 2% of their personal proceeds to philanthropic causes upon exit. Founders Pledge's declared mission is to \"...strip down the barriers to charitable giving, making it easy for technology entrepreneurs to give back to society.\" The Pledge's service is paid for by sponsors, partners, and private donors, and is offered free to entrepreneurs. Founders Pledge also offers post-exit support, including charity sourcing, due diligence and impact reporting. \n\nAt launch, £18.5m was pledged by leaders of 50 UK technology companies, including Alex Depledge of Hassle.com, José Neves of Farfetch, Ben Medlock from SwiftKey and James Alexander of Zopa. Founder's Pledge has facilitated the giving of $15.5 million to charities of donors' choices and has secured a further $180 million in legally binding pledges.  \n\nIn March 2016 Founders Pledge launched Founders of the Future, a philanthropic initiative that uses artificial intelligence and recommendations to uncover entrepreneurial talent in the 15–35 age group who are not currently founders.   \n\nFounders Pledge has also entered partnerships with US seed accelerators MassChallenge and Y Combinator, to obtain pledges from their funded companies. \n\nGoodwin joined with Hoberman and lastminute.com co-founder Martha Lane Fox to develop the Founders Forum Foundation. The Foundation facilitates internships and scholarships to school-leavers from across the UK, to break down the barriers that Goodwin believes result in the majority of media and tech company leaders coming from privileged backgrounds. Goodwin also believes entrepreneurship can address the problems faced by young people, especially \"NEETs\" (\"not in employment, education or training\").\n\nGoodwin is disparaging of large tech firms for not doing enough to engage with the UK communities in which they operate, and for failing to paying enough tax: “We should be leaning on them harder to put more back into the country,” he told \"The Telegraph\" newspaper. “I’m not talking about complicated tax structures – we need to [encourage them] to put more back into the cities they're a part of. We're sometimes so afraid of our own shadow that they'll go somewhere else, but where are they going to go? If you want a [European] headquarters, London is the best place to be.\"\n\nIn 2012 Founders Forum announced the launch of Founders Forum For Good. Led by Martha Lane-Fox and with Board members including Goodwin, Jimmy Wales and Mike Lynch, Founders Forum for Good's mission is to bring together digital entrepreneurs with the leaders of social and environmental organisations to tackle social issues and inequalities. In June 2013 the following year the Forum partnered with Nominet Trust to launch Social Tech, Social Change, a £1m fund providing early-stage finance for social entrepreneurs.\n\nGoodwin is married to Flora Hesketh, the daughter of Alexander Fermor-Hesketh, 3rd Baron Hesketh, the former Conservative Party treasurer.\n\nGoodwin's hobbies include sailing. In 2012 he campaigned the J/109 \"Harlequin\", becoming the overall winner at Cowes Week 2012 for both the White Group, J/109 group, and Cowes Week overall.\n\n"}
{"id": "17098121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17098121", "title": "Judaic Publishing Co.", "text": "Judaic Publishing Co.\n\nJudaic Publishing Co. was an antisemitic publishing entity controlled by Henry Hamilton Beamish, an Irish-born antisemite. In 1920 Beamish took over the publication of \"The Jewish Peril\" from Eyre & Spottiswoode, and published it under the imprint of The Britons. Subsequently, this entity was effectively merged by Beamish and his associates into the Britons Publishing Company , which continued disseminating antisemitic propaganda . The British Library has three imprints by this entity which are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20041495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20041495", "title": "Landssamanslutninga av Vasskraftkommunar", "text": "Landssamanslutninga av Vasskraftkommunar\n\nLandssamanslutninga av Vasskraftkommunar (LVK) is a Norwegian interest group. It groups municipalities that are involved in hydropower production.\n\nEstablished in 1978, in 2004 it had a membership of 150 municipalities, accounting for 60% of the area of Norway, but only 16% of the population. Among the member municipalities, all counties are represented except for Oslo, Akershus and Vestfold. While Oslo is not a member of LVK, its headquarters are nonetheless located there.\n\nThe national leader is Børre Rønningen, mayor of Vinje. Ingvald Godal, a former mayor of Vinje, chaired LVK from 1977 to 1985.\n\nIt maintains good ties with the Norwegian Association of Local and Regional Authorities (KS). It has faced the employers' organisation Norwegian Electricity Industry Association (EBL) as an opponent on many occasions, despite the fact that many of the companies that comprise the Electricity Industry Association are owned by LVK member municipalities.\n\nIt publishes the magazine \"LVK-nytt\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3572030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3572030", "title": "Methyl cellulose", "text": "Methyl cellulose\n\nMethyl cellulose (or methylcellulose) is a chemical compound derived from cellulose. It is a hydrophilic white powder in pure form and dissolves in cold (but not in hot) water, forming a clear viscous solution or gel. It is sold under a variety of trade names and is used as a thickener and emulsifier in various food and cosmetic products, and also as a treatment of constipation. Like cellulose, it is not digestible, not toxic, and not an allergen.\n\nMethyl cellulose does not occur naturally and is synthetically produced by heating cellulose with caustic solution (e.g. a solution of sodium hydroxide) and treating it with methyl chloride. In the substitution reaction that follows, the hydroxyl residues (-OH functional groups) are replaced by methoxide (-OCH groups).\n\nDifferent kinds of methyl cellulose can be prepared depending on the number of hydroxyl groups substituted. Cellulose is a polymer consisting of numerous linked glucose molecules, each of which exposes three hydroxyl groups. The \"Degree of Substitution\" (DS) of a given form of methyl cellulose is defined as the average number of substituted hydroxyl groups per glucose. The theoretical maximum is thus a DS of 3.0, however more typical values are 1.3–2.6.\n\nDifferent methyl cellulose preparations can also differ in the average length of their polymer backbones.\n\nMethyl cellulose has a lower critical solution temperature (LCST) between 40 °C and 50 °C. At temperatures below the LCST, it is readily soluble in water; above the LCST, it is not soluble, which has a paradoxical effect that heating a saturated solution of methyl cellulose will turn it solid, because methyl cellulose will precipitate out. The temperature at which this occurs depends on DS-value, with higher DS-values giving lower solubility and lower precipitation temperatures because the polar hydroxyl groups are masked.\n\nPreparing a solution of methyl cellulose with cold water is difficult however: as the powder comes into contact with water, a gel layer forms around it, dramatically slowing the diffusion of water into the powder, hence the inside remains dry. A better way is to first mix the powder with hot water, so that the methyl cellulose particles are well dispersed (and so have a much higher effective surface area) in the water, and cool down this dispersion while stirring, leading to the much more rapid dissolution of those particles.\n\nMethyl cellulose has an extremely wide range of uses, of which several are described below.\n\nMethyl cellulose is very occasionally added to hair shampoos, tooth pastes and liquid soaps, to generate their characteristic thick consistency. This is also done for foods, for example ice cream or croquette. Methyl cellulose is also an important emulsifier, preventing the separation of two mixed liquids because it is an emulsion stabilizer.\n\nThe E number of methyl cellulose as food additive is E461. E464 is Hydroxypropylcellulose and better soluble in water.\n\nMethyl cellulose (a.k.a. \"Methocel\", produced by Dow Chemical or \"Mecellose\", produced by Samsung Fine Chemicals) is also used as paint rheological modifier to prevent paint sagging.\n\nMethyl cellulose, as a gel, has the unique property of setting when hot and melting when cold. The culinary potential of this property is currently being explored at the University of Nottingham.\n\nMethyl cellulose is used as a variable viscosity personal lubricant; it is the main ingredient in K-Y Jelly.\n\nThe lubricating property of methyl cellulose is of particular benefit in the treatment of dry eyes (Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca). Dry eyes are common in the elderly and is often associated with rheumatoid arthritis. The lacrimal gland and the accessory conjunctival glands produce fewer tears. Methyl cellulose may be used as a tear substitute.\n\nSolutions containing methyl cellulose or similar cellulose derivatives are used as substitute for tears or saliva if the natural production of these fluids is disturbed.\n\nMethyl cellulose is used in the manufacture of capsules in nutritional supplements, it is edible and nontoxic properties provide a vegetarian alternative to the use of gelatin.\n\nWhen eaten, methyl cellulose is not absorbed by the intestines but passes through the digestive tract undisturbed. It attracts large amounts of water into the colon, producing a softer and bulkier stool. It is used to treat constipation, diverticulosis, hemorrhoids and irritable bowel syndrome. It should be taken with sufficient amounts of fluid to prevent dehydration.\n\nA well-known trade name of methyl cellulose when used as a drug is Citrucel by GlaxoSmithKline, but generic versions are also widely available.\n\nMethyl cellulose finds a major application as a performance additive in construction materials. It is added to mortar dry mixes to improve the mortar's properties such as workability, open and adjustment time, water retention, viscosity, adhesion to surfaces etc. Construction grade methyl cellulose is not to be identified with food and pharmaceutical grade methyl cellulose and hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose, as it may be cross-linked with glyoxal for easy dispersion in water.\n\nThe construction materials can be cement-based or gypsum-based. Notable examples of dry mixture mortars which utilize methyl cellulose include tile adhesives, EIFS, insulating plasters, hand-troweled and machine-sprayed plaster, stucco, self-leveling flooring, extruded cement panels, skim coats, joint & crack fillers, and tile grouts. Typical usage is about 0.2% – 0.5% of total dry powder weight for dry mixtures.\n\nDerivatives of methyl cellulose which improve performance characteristics include hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose (HPMC) and hydroxyethyl methyl cellulose (HEMC). These derivatives typically improve the characteristics such as water retention, vertical surface slip resistance, open time, etc.\n\nMethyl cellulose can be employed as a mild glue which can be washed away with water. This may be used in the fixing of delicate pieces of art as well as in book conservation to loosen and clean off old glue from spines and bookboards.\n\nMethyl cellulose is the main ingredient in many wallpaper pastes. It is also used as a binder in pastel crayons and also as a binder in medications.\n\nMethyl cellulose is used as sizing in the production of papers and textiles as it protects the fibers from absorbing water or oil.\n\nMethyl cellulose is also used in cell culture to study viral replication. It is dissolved in the same nutrient-containing medium in which cells are normally grown. A single layer of cells is grown on a flat surface, then infected with a virus for a short time. The strength of the viral sample used will determine how many cells get infected during this time. The thick methyl cellulose medium is then added on top of the cells in place of normal liquid medium. As the viruses replicate in the infected cells, they are able to spread between cells whose membranes touch each other, but are trapped when they enter the methyl cellulose. Only cells closely neighboring an infected cell will become infected and die. This leaves small regions of dead cells called plaques in a larger background of living uninfected cells. The number of plaques formed is determined by the strength of the original sample.\n\nAqueous methyl cellulose solutions have been used to slow bacterial and protozoal cell motility for closer inspection. Changing the amount of methyl cellulose in solution permits the adjustment of the solution's viscosity.\n\nMethyl cellulose is used in the most common approaches to quantify multiple or single lineage-committed hematopoietic progenitors, called colony-forming cells (CFCs) or colony-forming units (CFUs), in combination with culture supplements that promote their proliferation and differentiation, and allow the clonal progeny of a single progenitor cell to stay together and thus form a colony of more mature cells.\n\nMethyl cellulose is used as a buffer additive in capillary electrophoresis to control electroosmotic flow for improved separations.\n\nThe slimy, gooey appearance of an appropriate preparation of methyl cellulose with water, in addition to its nontoxic, nonallergenic, and edible properties, makes it popular for use in special effects for motion pictures and television wherever vile slimes must be simulated. In the film \"Ghostbusters,\" the gooey substance the supernatural entities used to “slime” the Ghostbusters was mostly a thick water solution of methyl cellulose. The \"Aliens\" ooze and drip a great deal of methyl cellulose—especially the queen.\n\nMethyl cellulose has been used to safely simulate molten materials, as well. In several of the Terminator films, it was back-lit with colored gels and films to reproduce the heated glow of iron in the large pouring ladles used to transport the metal from the smelting ovens to the various molds and forms. Methyl cellulose was also a stand-in for the lava flows in Los Angeles in \"Volcano\" and on the volcanic surface of Mustafar, in \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27108203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27108203", "title": "Ministry of National Defence (Lithuania)", "text": "Ministry of National Defence (Lithuania)\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania () was established in 1990. Its mission, according to its website, consists of: \"Implementation of joint policy with NATO, cooperation with foreign countries in defence sector, representation of Lithuania by coordination of international humanitarian law, management of national defence and security financial resources, army provision with armament, equipment and other resources, implementation of personnel management policy, preparation of military reserve, administration of compulsory military draft, preparation of society for civil resistance, planning national mobilisation.\"\n\nParties\n"}
{"id": "564132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=564132", "title": "National Party (Isle of Man)", "text": "National Party (Isle of Man)\n\nThe National Party was a party in the Isle of Man that identified itself with the UK Conservatives. They were active in the period between World War I and World War II in opposing the activities of the Manx Labour Party. However, unlike the Manx Labour Party, they were unsuccessful in establishing themselves over the longer term and they folded.\n"}
{"id": "1780688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780688", "title": "National School Lunch Act", "text": "National School Lunch Act\n\nThe Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (79 P.L. 396, 60 Stat. 230) is a United States federal law that created the National School Lunch Program (NSLP) to provide low-cost or free school lunch meals to qualified students through subsidies to schools. The program was established as a way to prop up food prices by absorbing farm surpluses, while at the same time providing food to school age children. It was named after Richard Russell, Jr., signed into law by President Harry S. Truman in 1946, and entered the federal government into schools dietary programs on June 4, 1946.\n\nThe majority of the support provided to schools participating in the program comes in the form of a cash reimbursement for each meal served. Schools are also entitled to receive commodity foods and additional commodities as they are available from surplus agricultural stocks. The National School Lunch Program serves 30.5 million children each day at a cost of $8.7 billion for fiscal year 2007. Most participants are also eligible for food during the summer through the Summer Food Service Program.\n\nSchool feeding in the United States underwent the same evolution as in Europe, beginning with sporadic food services undertaken by private societies and associations interested in child welfare and education. The Children's Aid Society of New York initiated a program in 1853, serving meals to students attending the vocational school.\n\nIn 1894, the Starr Center Association in Philadelphia began serving penny lunches in one school, later expanding the service to another. Soon a lunch committee was established within the Home and School League, and lunches were extended to include nine schools in the city.\n\nIn 1909, Dr. Cheesman A. Herrick, who was principal of the William Penn High School for Girls was credited with accomplishing the transfer of responsibilities for operation and support of the lunch program from charitable organizations to the Philadelphia School Board. He requested that a system be established to assure that the lunches served would be based upon sound principles of nutrition and required that the program be under the direction of a home economics graduate. The Board granted his request on an experimental basis and on the condition that the program would be self-supporting. The experiment proved successful, and the following year lunch services were extended to the Southern Manual Training School and later to three additional units.\n\nIn the spring of 1912, the School Board established a Department of High School Lunches and directed that the food services be inaugurated in all the high schools of the city. During all this time the Home and School League had continued operating the feeding program in the nine elementary schools, and continued to do so until May 1915, when it reported to the Board that the need for a lunch system had been clearly demonstrated and that it could not be successfully operated by an organization outside the school system. As a result, the School Board placed the operation of both high school and elementary lunch programs under the supervision of the Department of High School Lunches and authorized the extension of the program to other elementary schools.\n\nIn September 1908, the Women's Educational and Industrial Union in Boston begun to supply hot lunches to high schools which were under the supervision of the Boston School Committee.A central kitchen system was used and lunches were transported to the participating schools.\n\nIn January 1910, an experimental program for elementary schools took the form of a mid-morning lunch prepared by the class in Home Economics three days each week. On two days of each week sandwiches and milk were served. The children ate their meals at their desks, there being no lunchroom in the building. Before the end of the school year (1909–10) five additional schools were benefiting from the program, and a total of 2,000 pupils were being served each day, according to a report submitted by Ellen H. Richards in the \"Journal of Home Economics\" for December 1910.\n\nAs the scope of the meal supply expanded, local governments and school district boards could not provide the funds necessary to carry the increasing load. Supplementary contributions by charitable organizations and individuals did not suffice. Aid from Federal sources became inevitable. The earliest Federal aid came from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation in 1932 and 1933 when it granted loans to several towns in southwestern Missouri to cover the cost of labor employed in preparing and serving school lunches. Such Federal assistance was expanded to other areas in 1933 and 1934 under the operations of the Civil Works Administration and the Federal Emergency Relief Administration, reaching into 39 States and covering the employment of 7,442 women.\n\nThe depression of the 1930s brought on widespread unemployment. Much of the production of the farm went begging for a market, surpluses of farm products continued to mount, prices of farm products declined to a point where farm income provided only a meager subsistence. Millions of school children were unable to pay for their school lunches, and with but limited family resources to provide meals at home, the danger of malnutrition among children became a national concern.\n\nPublic Law 320 passed by the 74th Congress and approved August 24, 1936, made available to the Secretary of Agriculture an amount of money equal to 30 percent of the gross receipts from duties collected under the customs laws during each calendar year.\n\nNeedy families and school lunch programs became constructive outlets for the commodities purchased by the USDA under the terms of such legislation. Many needy school children could not afford to pay for lunches and were sorely in need of supplementary foods from a nutritional standpoint. Thus they would be using foods at school which would not otherwise be purchased in the market place and farmers would be helped by obtaining an outlet for their products at a reasonable price. The purchase and distribution program was assigned in 1935 to the Federal Surplus Commodities Corporation which had been established in 1933 as the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation to distribute surplus pork, dairy products, and wheat to the needy. These funds came from customs duties and were specifically designated to encourage agricultural surplus consumption via exports and domestic donations. In March 1937, there were 3,839 schools receiving commodities for lunch programs serving 342,031 children daily. Two years later, the number of schools participating had grown to 14,075 and the number of children had risen to 892,259. From 1939 to 1942，the number of schools participating increased by 78,841, and the number of pupils participating increased by 5,272,540.\n\nIn July 1943, in an attempt to salvage the deterioration of school lunches, Congress passed Public Law 129 to amend the Agricultural Act of 1935. This law re-established school lunch programs using $60 million to cover the purchase of food, but not labor. The next year, Congress appropriated another $50 million and allowed child-care centers to participate.\n\nSince the Act passed, Congress has modified several aspects of the policy. Congress amended the NSLP in 1962 to adjust fund distribution. They decided that the budget allocated to each state should be influenced by the state's need for further assistance. Rather than just factoring in the number of participants, Congress took into account the state poverty level compared to the national poverty level. Then, in 1968, Congress improved the NSLP food options to accommodate students with special dietary needs.\n\nMost recently, in 2012, First Lady Michelle Obama took on the issue of school lunches. Changes that she initiated primarily focused on more specific nutritional requirements. The changes include updated food group nutrition standards, such as vegetable subgroups, re-adjusted meat and grain serving sizes to reflect different school grade ranges, an implemented requirement for whole grains, and milk-fat restrictions. Lower calorie ranges and a 10-year progressive sodium reduction plan also started in 2012.\n\nAny school is eligible to receive NSLP for its students; meals come from a number of different sources, they can come from on-site production, vended meal from a NSLP caterer or in most schools provided by the local school board centralized kitchen.\n\nThis is usually regulated by each state's Department of Education's nutrition services. Regardless of who provides the food (on-site production, catered-vended, or school board kitchen), the raw materials come from USDA as donated commodities; in the case of vended meals, the caterer must use and credit the school for the commodities received.\n\nDriven to increase the quality of food in the NSLP, the USDA Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) undertook an ambitious agenda to provide schools with a consistent supply of safe, low-fat ground beef. Beginning in 2002, AMS established a statistically based vendor certification and supply chain quality management program for the purchase of ground beef and pork for NSLP under the Technical Requirements Schedule (GB‑2006, the current version). The program has enjoyed considerable success in reducing pathogen levels and controlling fat content in lean beef and pork that is provided to school children.\n\nUnder the program, Meat Grading and Certification (MGC) Branch agents enforce continuous auditing and in-plant monitoring as long as the contractor is in the program. Microbial and fat SPC charts and graphs for microbial levels and fat content are monitored for process assessment purposes on a daily basis.\n\nNutrition standards for the National School Lunch Program and National School Breakfast program were updated in 2012. This update in nutritional standards was funded through a federal statute signed into law by President Barack Obama. The bill called the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 funds free lunch programs in public schools for the next five years. The new guidelines require students to choose either a serving of fruit or vegetables every meal. Also, the portions must now be larger. \n\nAlong with larger portions of fruits and vegetables, the National School Lunch Program now enforces a variety of other nutritional requirements. Food products and ingredients used to prepare school meals must contain zero grams of added trans fat per serving (less than 0.5 grams per serving as defined by FDA). Furthermore, a meal can provide no more than 30 percent of calories from fat and less than 10 percent from saturated fat.\n\nIn late 2009, the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies released \"School Meals: Building Blocks For Healthy Children\". This report reviews and provides recommendations to update the nutrition standard and the meal requirements for the National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program. \"School Meals\" also sets standards for menu planning that focus on food groups, calories, saturated fat, and sodium, and that incorporate Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the Dietary Reference Intakes.\n\nNutrition plays a critical role in cognitive development and academic performance for children; undernourished children are more likely to be less energetic and less able to concentrate. The day-to-day observation of teachers and administrators of the relationship between inadequate nutrition and behavior and ability to learn is substantiated by scientific studies. Twenty Cape Town, South Africa, children were studied for 11 years, beginning in 1955.-The study was based on the hypothesis \"that the ill effects of under-nutrition are determined by (1) its occurrence during the period of maximum growth and (2) the duration of under-nutrition relative to the total period of growth. . . Evidence is cumulative and impressive that severe under-nutrition during the first 2 years of life, when brain growth is most active, results in a permanent reduction of brain size and restricted intellectual development.\" Some basic micronutrients are necessary for children to maintain a good status of learning, such as iron and vitamin B-12. Iron deficiency puts a child at risk of cognitive delay and lower math scores.\n\nIn December 2009, a report was released that showed that fast food restaurants were far more rigorous in checking for bacteria and dangerous pathogens in beef and chicken than the school lunch program. \"We simply are not giving our kids in schools the same level of quality and safety as you get when you go to many fast-food restaurants,\" said J. Glenn Morris, director of the Emerging Pathogens Institute at the University of Florida. \"We are not using those same standards.\"\n\nIn November 2011, an agriculture appropriations bill passed by Congress garnered controversy for blocking a proposed change by the Obama administration to school lunch regulations, whereby 1/8 cup of tomato paste would no longer have been considered as having the nutritional equivalent of 1/2 a cup of vegetables, but instead only as having the nutritional equivalent of 1/8 cup of vegetables (i.e., schools can only credit a volume of vegetables as equivalent to its actual size). Critics of this move by Congress claim that pressure was placed upon officials voting on the bill by lobbyists representing pizza manufacturers and cheese producers, as it was seen to threaten the ability of schools to serve pizza and credit it with the same level of nutritional value as they heretofore had. Many critics have sardonically summarized the situation as \"Pizza is now a vegetable\" or \"Congress decides pizza is a vegetable\". However, others have pointed out that 1/8 cup of tomato paste stacks up remarkably well against a 1/2 cup of vegetables nutritionally, albeit with an excessive amount of sodium that could be argued to reduce its nutritional value.\n\nIn 1967–68, the national enrollment in public and private schools was approximately 50.7 million, according to a survey of School Food Services in March 1968. About 36.8 million children, or 73 percent, were enrolled in schools participating in the National School Lunch Program with an actual average participation in the program of 18.9 million children, or about 37 percent of the national enrollment.\n\nReasons for non-participation in the program were numerous but, in low-income areas and large urban centers, low participation was particularly evident. Many of the school buildings in these areas, as well as the small schools in rural areas, were built many years before there were plans for operating a school lunch program, and the buildings did not lend themselves to remodeling for that purpose - neither were local funds available for it. Many of the elementary school buildings in urban centers were built with the idea that the children could and should go home for lunch (\"neighborhood schools\") and lunchroom facilities were not available. Many of these conditions hold true today.\n\nSome school authorities hold to the idea that a school lunch program must be self-supporting, and others feel that the school has no responsibility in this area. According to a junior high school principal, \"We think this is the responsibility of parents and child. We do not check them to see if a student eats. As a whole, we are doing it as a service rather than a need.\"\n\nThe net result is that the children in the neediest areas must go without an adequate noonday meal at school, or perhaps an inadequate evening meal at home, or none at all. Many high school students prefer to bring a bag lunch from home or eat snacks and beverages at a nearby stand or from a vending machine in the school. In some instances the portions served to high school students are not adjusted to meet their needs and they seek other sources of service where their tastes and appetites can be satisfied.\n\nThe predominate reason, however, appears to be inadequate funding at federal, state and local levels, with the end result that the children who cannot afford to pay are the losers.\n\nIn December 2014, \"Indian Country Today\" reported that 68 percent of Native American and Alaska Native students \"are eligible for free and reduced-price school lunches, compared with 28 percent of white students. USDA data indicate that 70 percent of children receiving free lunches through the NSLP are children of color, as are 50 percent of students receiving reduced-price lunches.\" The article expressed concern regarding efforts to undercut nutrition standards, and notes that several Native American schools are working to improve the quality of school lunches by using produce from school gardens, or tribally grown buffalo meat.\n\nThe current challenges of the NSLP can be broken down into three major categories: caloric and nutritional needs, food waste, and rising costs.\n\nFor some time, the measurement from which the NSLP based its cash-reimbursements and meal provisions largely came from caloric requirements. However, while this worked in a time where malnutrition plagued the nation's poverty, the modern focus on caloric intake usurps the nation's stance on the growing obesity epidemic. Balancing nutrition and calories has always been a challenge for the NSLP and its participating schools. This struggle can undermine schools that wish to comply with the national standards while still advocating healthy lifestyles.\n\nAnother problem that contributes to this challenge is that nutritious food is often considered less favorable than competitive food that is available to students. Given the choice, students will often prefer competitive foods that are not required to meet federal minimum nutrition standards.\n\nIn the US, the term \"competitive foods\" refers to any food source that competes with a lunch program's offerings. Such competitive foods include fast food offerings, a la carte food lines, and vending machines. A study was done in the 2009-2010 school year across 47 states and 622 districts to examine how much of districts' competitive food and drink policy complied with Dietary Guidelines for Americans (DGA) recommendations. One of the major reasons for this study to be done is the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act which requires schools to establish a science-based nutrition standards for competitive foods called a wellness plan. These new provisions for competitive food and drinks included limits on specific nutrients in the food, such as sodium and fats. Unfortunately, less than 5% of districts met or exceeded DGA requirements. Only about 4% of districts across the nation required fruits and vegetables to be sold within the competitive foods which in no way helps the fruit and vegetable intake of students that is already sub-par.\n\nChildren throw away much of the nutritious food that they are served. In a study of the Boston Public Schools, \"on average, students discarded roughly 19 percent of their entrées, 47 percent of their fruit, 25 percent of their milk, and 73 percent of their vegetables.\" \"It was estimated that $432,349.05 worth of food is wasted annually at lunch by students in Grades 6–8 in [Boston Public Schools].\" Overall, this sum makes up 26.1 percent of these three schools' food budgets, excluding labor and supplies. If translated nationally, Cohen estimates that roughly $1,238,846,400 in food is wasted on an annual basis. \nOne reason that students discard this amount of food has to do with à la carte lines and vending machines. In a 1998 study of 16 randomly selected schools in St. Paul, Minnesota, the authors discovered a negative correlation between à la carte lines, vending machine use, and fruit and vegetable consumption. On average, students from schools without an à la carte line consumed nearly an entire serving more of fruit and vegetables than did students with such programs. Furthermore, students from all schools exceeded the daily USDA recommended calories from saturated fat, and students from schools with à la carte lines exceeded the recommendations by 1 percent more, on average. Concerning snack vending machines, the authors determined that with each vending machine present, \"students' mean intake of fruit servings decreased by 11 percent.\" Beverage machines showed no significant impact.\n\nA challenge for schools that take part in the NSLP is rising costs of producing lunch. According to the School Lunch and Breakfast Cost Study (SLBCS), one in four school districts reported costs for school lunches above the program reimbursement rate.\nThe additional cost must then be supplemented by school district general funds, and this puts a strain on school district budgets. Additional costs also make it difficult to meet federally mandated nutrition requirements because using the best palatable foods for students becomes too expensive.\n\nAccording to the 2008 USDA report on the NSLP, \"other sources of increasing costs include increases in health care costs for employees and, more recently, rising food costs.\" For example, in 2008, some school systems in Alabama, California, and Texas raised meal prices to keep up with \"steep increases in food costs.\" The school districts raised prices for paying students, while keeping prices the same for students that qualified for reduced-price or free lunches. This method of cost adjustment leaves either the school district or paying students to bear the burden of the price increase.\n\nNational School Lunch Week takes place on the second Sunday in October. On October 6, 2017, President Donald Trump proclaimed \"National School Lunch Week\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "952984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952984", "title": "Pan-Africanism", "text": "Pan-Africanism\n\nPan-Africanism is a worldwide movement that aims to encourage and strengthen bonds of solidarity between all people of African descent. Based on a common fate going back to the Atlantic slave trade, the movement extends beyond continental Africans, with a substantial support base among the African diaspora in the Caribbean, Latin America, and the United States. It is based on the belief that unity is vital to economic, social, and political progress and aims to \"unify and uplift\" people of African descent. The ideology asserts that the fate of all African peoples and countries are intertwined. At its core Pan-Africanism is \"a belief that African peoples, both on the continent and in the diaspora, share not merely a common history, but a common destiny\".\n\nThe Organization of African Unity (now the African Union) was established in 1963 to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its Member States and to promote global relations within the framework of the United Nations. The African Union Commission has its seat in Addis Ababa and the Pan-African Parliament has its seat in Johannesburg and Midrand.\n\nPan-Africanism stresses the need for \"collective self-reliance\". Pan-Africanism exists as a governmental and grassroots objective. Pan-African advocates include leaders such as Haile Selassie, Julius Nyerere, Ahmed Sékou Touré, Kwame Nkrumah, Thomas Sankara and Muammar Gaddafi, grassroots organizers such as Marcus Garvey and Malcolm X, academics such as W. E. B. Du Bois, and others in the diaspora. Pan-Africanists believe that solidarity will enable the continent to fulfill its potential to independently provide for all its people. Crucially, an all-African alliance would empower African people globally.\n\nThe realization of the Pan-African objective would lead to \"power consolidation in Africa\", which \"would compel a reallocation of global resources, as well as unleashing a fiercer psychological energy and political assertion...that would unsettle social and political (power) structures...in the Americas\".\n\nAdvocates of Pan-Africanism—i.e. \"Pan-Africans\" or \"Pan-Africanists\"—often champion socialist principles and tend to be opposed to external political and economic involvement on the continent. Critics accuse the ideology of homogenizing the experience of people of African descent. They also point to the difficulties of reconciling current divisions within countries on the continent and within communities in the diaspora.\n\nAs a philosophy, Pan-Africanism represents the aggregation of the historical, cultural, spiritual, artistic, scientific, and philosophical legacies of Africans from past times to the present. Pan-Africanism as an ethical system traces its origins from ancient times, and promotes values that are the product of the African civilisations and the struggles against slavery, racism, colonialism, and neo-colonialism.\n\nAlongside a large number of slaves insurrections, by the end of the 18th century a political movement developed across the Americas, Europe and Africa that sought to weld disparate movements into a network of solidarity, putting an end to oppression. Another important political form of a religious Pan-Africanist worldview appeared in the form of Ethiopianism. In London, the Sons of Africa was a political group addressed by Quobna Ottobah Cugoano in the 1791 edition of his book \"Thoughts and Sentiments on the Evil of Slavery\". The group addressed meetings and organised letter-writing campaigns, published campaigning material and visited parliament. They wrote to figures such as Granville Sharp, William Pitt and other members of the white abolition movement, as well as King George III and the Prince of Wales, the future George IV.\n\nModern Pan-Africanism began around the start of the 20th century. The African Association, later renamed the Pan-African Association, was established around 1897 by Henry Sylvester-Williams, who organized the First Pan-African Conference in London in 1900.\n\nWith the independence of Ghana in March 1957, Kwame Nkrumah was elected as the first Prime Minister and President of the State. Nkrumah emerged as a major advocate for the unity of Independent Africa. The Ghanaian President embodied a political activist approach to pan-Africanism as he championed the “quest for regional integration of the whole of the African continent”. This period represented a \"Golden Age of high pan-African ambitions\"; the Continent had experienced revolution and decolonization from Western powers and the narrative of rebirth and solidarity had gained momentum within the pan-African movement. Nkrumah’s pan-African principles intended for a union between the Independent African states upon a recognition of their commonality (i.e. suppression under imperialism). Pan-Africanism under Nkrumah evolved past the assumptions of a racially exclusive movement associated with black Africa, and adopted a political discourse of regional unity \n\nIn April 1958, Nkrumah hosted the first All-African People’s Conference (AAPC) in Accra, Ghana. The Conference invited delegates of political movements and major political leaders. With the exception of South Africa, all Independent States of the Continent attended: Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Liberia, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia and Sudan. The Conference signified a monumental event in the pan-African movement, as it revealed a political and social union between those considered Arabic states and the black African regions. Further, the Conference espoused a common African Nationalist identity, among the States, of unity and anti-Imperialism. Frantz Fanon, journalist, freedom fighter and a member of the Algerian FLN party attended the conference as a delegate for Algeria. Considering the armed struggle of the FLN against French colonial rule, the attendees of the Conference agreed to support the struggle of those States under colonial oppression. This encouraged the commitment of direct involvement in the \"emancipation of the Continent; thus, a fight against colonial pressures on South Africa was declared and the full support of the FLN struggle in Algeria, against French colonial rule\"”. In the years following 1958, Accra Conference also marked the establishment of a new foreign policy of non-alignment as between the US and USSR, and the will to found an \"African Identity\" in global affairs by advocating a unity between the African States on international relations. \"This would be based on the Bandung Declaration, the Charter of the UN and on loyalty to UN decisions.\"\n\nIn 1959, Nkrumah, President Sékou Touré of Guinea and President William Tubman of Liberia met at Sanniquellie and signed the Sanniquellie Declaration outlining the principles for the achievement of the unity of Independent African States whilst maintaining a national identity and autonomous constitutional structure. The Declaration called for a revised understanding of pan-Africanism and the uniting of the Independent States. In 1960, the second All-African People’s Conference was held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The membership of the All-African People’s Organisation (AAPO) had increased with the inclusion of the “Algerian Provisional Government (as they had not yet won independence), Cameroun, Guinea, Nigeria, Somalia and the United Arab Republic”. The Conference highlighted diverging ideologies within the movement, as Nkrumah’s call for a political and economic union between the Independent African States gained little agreement. The disagreements following 1960 gave rise to two rival factions within the pan-African movement: the Casablanca Bloc and the Brazzaville Bloc.\n\nIn 1962, Algeria gained independence from French colonial rule and Ahmed Ben Bella assumed Presidency. Ben Bella was a strong advocate for pan-Africanism and an African Unity. Following the FLN’s armed struggle for liberation, Ben Bella spoke at the UN and espoused for Independent Africa’s role in providing military and financial support to the African liberation movements opposing apartheid and fighting Portuguese colonialism. \nIn search of a united voice, in 1963 at an African Summit conference in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, 32 African states met and established the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The creation of the OAU Charter took place at this Summit and defines a coordinated \"effort to raise the standard of living of member States and defend their sovereignty\" by supporting freedom fighters and decolonisation. Thus, was the formation of the African Liberation Committee (ALC), during the 1963 Summit. Championing the support of liberation movements, was Algeria’s President Ben Bella, immediately “donated 100 million francs to its finances and was one of the first countries, of the Organisation to boycott Portuguese and South African goods”.\n\nIn 1969, Algiers hosted the Pan-African Cultural Festival, on July 21 and it continued for 10 days. The festival attracted thousands from African states and the African Diaspora, including the Black Panthers. It symbolised the new pan-African identity, of regions with a shared experience of colonisation. The Festival further strengthened Algeria’s President, Boumediene’s standing in Africa and the Third World.\n\nAfter the death of Kwame Nkrumah in 1972, Muammar Qaddafi assumed the mantle of leader of the Pan-Africanist movement and became the most outspoken advocate of African Unity, consistently calling – like Nkrumah before him – for the advent of a \"United States of Africa\". \n\nIn the United States, the term is closely associated with Afrocentrism, an ideology of African-American identity politics that emerged during the civil rights movement of the 1960s to 1970s.\n\nAs originally conceived by Henry Sylvester-Williams (although some historians credit the idea to Edward Wilmot Blyden), Pan-Africanism referred to the unity of all continental Africa.\n\nDuring apartheid South Africa there was a Pan Africanist Congress that dealt with the oppression of Africans in South Africa under Apartheid rule. Other pan-Africanist organisations include: Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association-African Communities League, TransAfrica and the International People's Democratic Uhuru Movement.\n\nAdditionally, Pan-Africanism is seen as an endeavor to return to what are deemed by its proponents as singular, traditional African concepts about culture, society, and values. Examples of this include Léopold Sédar Senghor's Négritude movement, and Mobutu Sese Seko's view of Authenticité.\n\nAn important theme running through much pan-Africanist literature concerns the historical links between different countries on the continent, and the benefits of cooperation as a way of resisting imperialism and colonialism.\n\nIn the 21st century, some Pan-Africanists aim to address globalisation and the problems of environmental justice. For instance, at the conference \"Pan-Africanism for a New Generation\" held at the University of Oxford, June 2011, Ledum Mittee, the current president of the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP), argued that environmental justice movements across the African continent should create horizontal linkages in order to better protect the interests of threatened peoples and the ecological systems in which they are embedded, and upon which their survival depends.\n\nSome universities went as far as creating \"Departments of Pan-African Studies\" in the late 1960s. This includes the California State University, where that department was founded in 1969 as a direct reaction to the civil rights movement, and is today dedicated to \"teaching students about the African World Experience\", to \"demonstrate to the campus and the community the richness, vibrance, diversity, and vitality of African, African American, and Caribbean cultures\" and to \"presenting students and the community with an Afrocentric analysis\" of anti-black racism.\nSyracuse University also offers a master's degree in \"Pan African Studies\".\n\nThe flags of numerous states in Africa and of Pan-African groups use green, yellow and red. This colour combination was originally adopted from the 1897 flag of Ethiopia, and was inspired by the fact that Ethiopia is the continent's oldest independent nation. Thus making the Ethiopian green, yellow and red the closest visual representation of Pan-Africanism. This is in comparison to the Black Nationalist flag, representing political theory centred around the eugenicist caste stratified colonial Americas. \n\nThe UNIA (Universal Negro Improvement Association) flag, is a tri-color flag consisting of three equal horizontal bands of (from top down) red, black and green. The UNIA formally adopted it on August 13, 1920, during its month-long convention at Madison Square Garden in New York.\n\nVariations of the flag have been used in various countries and territories in Africa and the Americas to represent Black Nationalist ideologies. Among these are the flags of Malawi, Kenya and Saint Kitts and Nevis. Several Pan-African organizations and movements have also often employed the emblematic red, black and green tri-color scheme in variety of contexts.\n\nMaafa is an aspect of Pan-African studies. The term collectively refers to 500 years of suffering (including the present) of people of African heritage through slavery, imperialism, colonialism, and other forms of oppression. In this area of study, both the actual history and the legacy of that history are studied as a single discourse. The emphasis in the historical narrative is on African agents, as opposed to non-African agents.\n\n\n\n\n\nAfrocentric Pan-Africanism is espoused by Kwabena Faheem Ashanti in his book \"The Psychotechnology of Brainwashing: Crucifying Willie Lynch\". Another newer movement that has evolved from the early Afrocentric school is the Afrisecal movement or Afrisecaism of Francis Ohanyido, a Nigerian philosopher-poet. Black Nationalism is sometimes associated with this form of pan-Africanism.\n\nDuring the past three decades hip hop has emerged as a powerful force that has partly shaped black identity worldwide. In his 2005 article \"Hip-hop Turns 30: Whatcha Celebratin' For?\", Greg Tate describes hip-hop culture as the product of a Pan-African state of mind. It is an \"ethnic enclave/empowerment zone that has served as a foothold for the poorest among us to get a grip on the land of the prosperous\". Hip-hop unifies those of African descent globally in its movement towards greater economic, social and political power. Andreana Clay in her article \"Keepin' it Real: Black Youth, Hip-Hop Culture, and Black Identity\" states that hip-hop provides the world with \"vivid illustrations of Black lived experience\", creating bonds of black identity across the globe. Hip hop authenticates a black identity, and in doing so, creates a unifying uplifting force among Africans as Pan-Africanism sets out to achieve.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "235892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235892", "title": "Plurality (voting)", "text": "Plurality (voting)\n\nA plurality vote (in North America) or relative majority (in the United Kingdom) describes the circumstance when a candidate or proposition polls more votes than any other, but does not receive a majority. For example, if 100 votes were cast, including 45 for \"Candidate A\", 30 for \"Candidate B\" and 25 for \"Candidate C\", then \"Candidate A\" received a plurality of votes but not a majority. In some votes, the winning candidate or proposition may have only a plurality, depending on the rules of the organization holding the vote.\n\nIn international institutional law, a \"simple majority\" (also a \"majority\") vote is more than half of the votes cast (disregarding abstentions) \"among\" alternatives; a \"qualified majority\" (also a \"supermajority\") is a number of votes above a specified percentage (e.g. two-thirds); a \"relative majority\" (also a \"plurality\") is the number of votes obtained that is greater than any other option; and an \"absolute majority\" is a number of votes \"greater than the number of votes that possibly can be obtained at the same time for any other solution\", when voting for \"multiple\" alternatives at a time.\n\nHenry Watson Fowler suggests that the American terms \"plurality\" and \"majority\" offer single-word alternatives for the corresponding two-word terms in British English, \"relative majority\" and \"absolute majority\", and that in British English \"majority\" is sometimes understood to mean \"receiving the most votes\" and can therefore be confused with \"plurality\". William Poundstone observes that systems which allow choosing by a plurality of votes are more vulnerable to the spoiler effect—where two or more similar choices each draw fewer votes than a dissimilar choice that would have lost to any individual similar choice on its own—than systems which require a majority.\n\n"}
{"id": "23996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23996", "title": "Political party", "text": "Political party\n\nA political party is an organized group of people, often with common views, who come together to contest elections and hold power in the government. The party agrees on some proposed policies and programmes, with a view to promoting the collective good or furthering their supporters' interests.\n\nWhile there is some international commonality in the way political parties are recognized and in how they operate, there are often many differences, and some are significant. Many political parties have an ideological core, but some do not, and many represent ideologies very different from their ideology at the time the party was founded. Many countries, such as Germany and India, have several significant political parties, and some nations have one-party systems, such as China and Cuba. The United States is in practice a two-party system but with many smaller parties also participating and a high degree of autonomy for individual candidates.\n\nPolitical factions have existed in democratic societies since ancient times. Plato writes in his \"Republic\" on the formation of political cliques in Classical Athens, and the tendency of Athenian citizens to vote according to factional loyalty rather than for the public good. In the Roman Republic, Polybius coined the term \"ochlocracy\" (literally, 'rule of the mob') to describe the tendency of politicians to mobilise popular factionalist sentiment against their political rivals. Factional politics remained a part of Roman political life through the Imperial period and beyond, and the poet Juvenal coined the phrase \"bread and circuses\" to describe the political class pandering to the citizenry through diversionary entertainments rather than through arguments about policy. \"Bread and circuses\" survived as part of Byzantine political life - for example, the Nika revolt during the reign of Justinian was a riot between the \"Blues\" and the \"Greens\" -- two chariot racing factions at the Hippodrome, who received patronage from different Senatorial factions and religious sects. The patricians who sponsored the Blues and the Greens competed with each other to hold ever grander games and public entertainments during electoral campaigns, in order to appeal to the citizenry of Constantinople. \n\nThe first modern political factions, however, can be said to have originated in early modern Britain. The first political factions, cohering around a basic, if fluid, set of principles, emerged from the Exclusion Crisis and Glorious Revolution in late 17th century England. The Whigs supported Protestant constitutional monarchy against absolute rule; the Tories, originating in the Royalist (or \"Cavalier\") faction of the English Civil War, were conservative royalist supporters of a strong monarchy as a counterbalance to the republican tendencies of Whigs, who were the dominant political faction for most of the first half of the 18th century; the Whigs supported the Hanoverian succession of 1715 against the Jacobite supporters of the deposed Roman Catholic Stuart dynasty, and were able to purge Tory politicians from important government positions after the failed Jacobite rising of 1715. The leader of the Whigs was Robert Walpole, who maintained control of the government in the period 1721–1742; his protégé was Henry Pelham (1743–1754).\n\nAs the century wore on, the factions slowly began to adopt more coherent political tendencies as the interests of their power bases began to diverge. The Whig party's initial base of support from the great aristocratic families widened to include the emerging industrial interests and wealthy merchants. As well as championing constitutional monarchy with strict limits on the monarch's power, the Whigs adamantly opposed a Catholic king as a threat to liberty, and believed in extending toleration to nonconformist Protestants, or dissenters. A major influence on the Whigs were the liberal political ideas of John Locke, and the concepts of universal rights employed by Locke and Algernon Sidney.\n\nAlthough the Tories were out of office for half a century, for most of this period (at first under the leadership of Sir William Wyndham) the Tories retained party cohesion, with occasional hopes of regaining office, particularly at the accession of George II (1727) and the downfall of the ministry of Sir Robert Walpole in 1742. They acted as a united, though unavailing, opposition to Whig corruption and scandals. At times they cooperated with the \"Opposition Whigs\", Whigs who were in opposition to the Whig government; however, the ideological gap between the Tories and the Opposition Whigs prevented them from coalescing as a single party. They finally regained power with the accession of George III in 1760 under Lord Bute.\n\nWhen they lost power, the old Whig leadership dissolved into a decade of factional chaos with distinct \"Grenvillite\", \"Bedfordite\", \"Rockinghamite\", and \"Chathamite\" factions successively in power, and all referring to themselves as \"Whigs\". Out of this chaos, the first distinctive parties emerged. The first such party was the Rockingham Whigs under the leadership of Charles Watson-Wentworth and the intellectual guidance of the political philosopher Edmund Burke. Burke laid out a philosophy that described the basic framework of the political party as \"a body of men united for promoting by their joint endeavours the national interest, upon some particular principle in which they are all agreed\". As opposed to the instability of the earlier factions, which were often tied to a particular leader and could disintegrate if removed from power, the party was centred around a set of core principles and remained out of power as a united opposition to government.\n\nA coalition including the Rockingham Whigs, led by the Earl of Shelburne, took power in 1782, only to collapse after Rockingham's death. The new government, led by the radical politician Charles James Fox in coalition with Lord North, was soon brought down and replaced by William Pitt the Younger in 1783. It was now that a genuine two-party system began to emerge, with Pitt leading the new Tories against a reconstituted \"Whig\" party led by Fox.\n\nBy the time of this split the Whig party was increasingly influenced by the ideas of Adam Smith, founder of classical liberalism. As Wilson and Reill (2004) note, \"Adam Smith's theory melded nicely with the liberal political stance of the Whig Party and its middle-class constituents.\"\n\nThe modern Conservative Party was created out of the 'Pittite' Tories of the early 19th century. In the late 1820s disputes over political reform broke up this grouping. A government led by the Duke of Wellington collapsed amidst dire election results. Following this disaster Robert Peel set about assembling a new coalition of forces. Peel issued the Tamworth Manifesto in 1834 which set out the basic principles of Conservatism – the necessity in specific cases of reform in order to survive, but an opposition to unnecessary change, that could lead to \"a perpetual vortex of agitation\". Meanwhile, the Whigs, along with free trade Tory followers of Robert Peel, and independent Radicals, formed the Liberal Party under Lord Palmerston in 1859, and transformed into a party of the growing urban middle-class, under the long leadership of William Ewart Gladstone.\n\nAlthough the framers of the 1787 United States Constitution did not anticipate that American political discourse would become partisan, political controversies in the early 1790s over the extent of federal government powers saw the emergence of two proto-political parties: the Federalist Party and the Democratic-Republican Party, which were championed by Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson, respectively. However, a consensus reached on these issues ended party politics in 1816 for nearly a decade, a period commonly known as the Era of Good Feelings.\n\nThe splintering of the Democratic-Republican Party in the aftermath of the contentious 1824 presidential election led to the re-emergence of political parties. Two major parties would dominate the political landscape for the next quarter-century: the Democratic Party, led by Andrew Jackson, and the Whig Party, established by Henry Clay from the National Republicans and from other Anti-Jackson groups. When the Whig Party fell apart in the mid-1850s, its position as a major U.S. political party was filled by the Republican Party.\n\nThe second half of the 19th century saw the adoption of the party model of politics across Europe. In Germany, France, Austria and elsewhere, the 1848 Revolutions sparked a wave of liberal sentiment and the formation of representative bodies and political parties. The end of the century saw the formation of large socialist parties in Europe, some conforming to the teaching of Karl Marx, others adapting social democracy through the use of reformist and gradualist methods.\n\nAt the same time, the political party reached its modern form, with a membership disciplined through the use of a party whip and the implementation of efficient structures of control. The Home Rule League Party, campaigning for Home Rule for Ireland in the British Parliament was fundamentally changed by the great Irish political leader Charles Stewart Parnell in the 1880s. In 1882, he changed his party's name to the Irish Parliamentary Party and created a well-organized grass roots structure, introducing membership to replace \"ad hoc\" informal groupings. He created a new selection procedure to ensure the professional selection of party candidates committed to taking their seats, and in 1884 he imposed a firm 'party pledge' which obliged MPs to vote as a bloc in parliament on all occasions. The creation of a strict party whip and a formal party structure was unique at the time. His party's efficient structure and control contrasted with the loose rules and flexible informality found in the main British parties; they soon came to model themselves on the Parnellite model.\n\nA political party is typically led by a party leader (the most powerful member and spokesperson representing the party), a party secretary (who maintains the daily work and records of party meetings), party treasurer (who is responsible for membership dues) and party chair (who forms strategies for recruiting and retaining party members, and also chairs party meetings). Most of the above positions are also members of the party executive, the leading organization which sets policy for the entire party at the national level. The structure is far more decentralized in the United States because of the separation of powers, federalism and the multiplicity of economic interests and religious sects. Even state parties are decentralized as county and other local committees are largely independent of state central committees. The national party leader in the U.S. will be the president, if the party holds that office, or a prominent member of Congress in opposition (although a big-state governor may aspire to that role). Officially, each party has a chairman for its national committee who is a prominent spokesman, organizer and fund-raiser, but without the status of prominent elected office holders.\n\nIn parliamentary democracies, on a regular, periodic basis, party conferences are held to elect party officers, although snap leadership elections can be called if enough members opt for such. Party conferences are also held in order to affirm party values for members in the coming year. American parties also meet regularly and, again, are more subordinate to elected political leaders.\n\nDepending on the demographic spread of the party membership, party members form local or regional party committees in order to help candidates run for local or regional offices in government. These local party branches reflect the officer positions at the national level.\n\nIt is also customary for political party members to form wings for current or prospective party members, most of which fall into the following two categories:\n\nThese are useful for party outreach, training and employment. Many young aspiring politicians seek these roles and jobs as stepping stones to their political careers in legislative or executive offices.\n\nThe internal structure of political parties has to be democratic in some countries. In Germany Art. 21 Abs. 1 Satz 3 GG establishes a command of inner-party democracy.\n\nWhen the party is represented by members in the lower house of parliament, the party leader simultaneously serves as the leader of the parliamentary group of that full party representation; depending on a minimum number of seats held, Westminster-based parties typically allow for leaders to form frontbench teams of senior fellow members of the parliamentary group to serve as critics of aspects of government policy. When a party becomes the largest party not part of the Government, the party's parliamentary group forms the Official Opposition, with Official Opposition frontbench team members often forming the Official Opposition Shadow cabinet. When a party achieves enough seats in an election to form a majority, the party's frontbench becomes the Cabinet of government ministers. They are all elected members.There are members who attend party without promotion\n\nThe freedom to form, declare membership in, or campaign for candidates from a political party is considered a measurement of a state's adherence to liberal democracy as a political value. Regulation of parties may run from a crackdown on or repression of all opposition parties, a norm for authoritarian governments, to the repression of certain parties which hold or promote ideals which run counter to the general ideology of the state's incumbents (or possess membership by-laws which are legally unenforceable).\n\nFurthermore, in the case of far-right, far-left and regionalism parties in the national parliaments of much of the European Union, mainstream political parties may form an informal cordon sanitaire which applies a policy of non-cooperation towards those \"Outsider Parties\" present in the legislature which are viewed as 'anti-system' or otherwise unacceptable for government. \"Cordons sanitaire\", however, have been increasingly abandoned over the past two decades in multi-party democracies as the pressure to construct broad coalitions in order to win elections – along with the increased willingness of outsider parties themselves to participate in government – has led to many such parties entering electoral and government coalitions.\n\nStarting in the second half of the 20th century, modern democracies have introduced rules for the flow of funds through party coffers, e.g. the Canada Election Act 1976, the PPRA in the U.K. or the FECA in the U.S. Such political finance regimes stipulate a variety of regulations for the transparency of fundraising and expenditure, limit or ban specific kinds of activity and provide public subsidies for party activity, including campaigning.\n\nPartisan style varies according to each jurisdiction, depending on how many parties there are, and how much influence each individual party has.\n\nIn a nonpartisan system, no official political parties exist, sometimes reflecting legal restrictions on political parties. In nonpartisan elections, each candidate is eligible for office on his or her own merits. In nonpartisan legislatures, there are no typically formal party alignments within the legislature. The administration of George Washington and the first few sessions of the United States Congress were nonpartisan. Washington also warned against political parties during his Farewell Address. In the United States, the unicameral legislature of Nebraska is nonpartisan but is elected and often votes on informal party lines. In Canada, the territorial legislatures of the Northwest Territories and Nunavut are nonpartisan. In New Zealand, Tokelau has a nonpartisan parliament. Many city and county governments in the United States and Canada are nonpartisan. Nonpartisan elections and modes of governance are common outside of state institutions. Unless there are legal prohibitions against political parties, factions within nonpartisan systems often evolve into political parties.\n\nIn one-party systems, one political party is legally allowed to hold effective power. Although minor parties may sometimes be allowed, they are legally required to accept the leadership of the dominant party. This party may not always be identical to the government, although sometimes positions within the party may in fact be more important than positions within the government. North Korea and China are examples; others can be found in Fascist states, such as Nazi Germany between 1934 and 1945. The one-party system is thus often equated with dictatorships and tyranny.\n\nIn dominant-party systems, opposition parties are allowed, and there may be even a deeply established democratic tradition, but other parties are widely considered to have no real chance of gaining power. Sometimes, political, social and economic circumstances, and public opinion are the reason for others parties' failure. Sometimes, typically in countries with less of an established democratic tradition, it is possible the dominant party will remain in power by using patronage and sometimes by voting fraud. In the latter case, the definition between dominant and one-party system becomes rather blurred. Examples of dominant party systems include the People's Action Party in Singapore, the African National Congress in South Africa, the Cambodian People's Party in Cambodia, the Liberal Democratic Party in Japan, and the National Liberation Front in Algeria. One-party dominant system also existed in Mexico with the Institutional Revolutionary Party until the 1990s, in the southern United States with the Democratic Party from the late 19th century until the 1970s, in Indonesia with the \"Golkar\" from the early 1970s until 1998.\n\nTwo-party systems are states such as Honduras, Jamaica, Malta, Ghana and the United States in which there are two political parties dominant to such an extent that electoral success under the banner of any other party is almost impossible. One right wing coalition party and one left wing coalition party is the most common ideological breakdown in such a system but in two-party states political parties are traditionally catch all parties which are ideologically broad and inclusive.\n\nThe United States has become essentially a two-party system, since a conservative (such as the Republican Party) and liberal (such as the Democratic Party) party has usually been the status quo within American politics. The first parties were called Federalist and Republican, followed by a brief period of Republican dominance before a split occurred between National Republicans and Democratic Republicans. The former became the Whig Party and the latter became the Democratic Party. The Whigs survived only for two decades before they split over the spread of slavery, those opposed becoming members of the new Republican Party, as did anti-slavery members of the Democratic Party. Third parties (such as the Libertarian Party) often receive little support and are very rarely the victors in elections. Despite this, there have been several examples of third parties siphoning votes from major parties that were expected to win (such as Theodore Roosevelt in the election of 1912 and George Wallace in the election of 1968). As third party movements have learned, the Electoral College's requirement of a nationally distributed majority makes it difficult for third parties to succeed. Thus, such parties rarely win many electoral votes, although their popular support within a state may tip it toward one party or the other. Wallace had weak support outside the South. More generally, parties with a broad base of support across regions or among economic and other interest groups, have a great chance of winning the necessary plurality in the U.S.'s largely single-member district, winner-take-all elections. The tremendous land area and large population of the country are formidable challenges to political parties with a narrow appeal.\n\nThe UK political system, while technically a multi-party system, has functioned generally as a two-party (sometimes called a \"two-and-a-half party\") system; since the 1920s the two largest political parties have been the Conservative Party and the Labour Party. Before the Labour Party rose in British politics the Liberal Party was the other major political party along with the Conservatives. Though coalition and minority governments have been an occasional feature of parliamentary politics, the first-past-the-post electoral system used for general elections tends to maintain the dominance of these two parties, though each has in the past century relied upon a third party to deliver a working majority in Parliament. (A plurality voting system usually leads to a two-party system, a relationship described by Maurice Duverger and known as Duverger's Law.) There are also numerous other parties that hold or have held a number of seats in Parliament.\n\nMulti-party systems are systems in which more than two parties are represented and elected to public office.\n\nAustralia, Canada, Nepal, Pakistan, India, Ireland, United Kingdom and Norway are examples of countries with two strong parties and additional smaller parties that have also obtained representation. The smaller or \"third\" parties may hold the balance of power in a parliamentary system, and thus may be invited to form a part of a coalition government together with one of the larger parties, or may provide a supply and confidence agreement to the government; or may instead act independently from the dominant parties.\n\nMore commonly, in cases where there are three or more parties, no one party is likely to gain power alone, and parties have to work with each other to form coalition governments. This is almost always the case in Germany on national and state level, and in most constituencies at the communal level. Furthermore, since the forming of the Republic of Iceland there has never been a government not led by a coalition, usually involving the Independence Party or the Progressive Party. A similar situation exists in the Republic of Ireland, where no one party has held power on its own since 1989. Since then, numerous coalition governments have been formed. These coalitions have been led exclusively by either Fianna Fáil or Fine Gael.\n\nPolitical change is often easier with a coalition government than in one-party or two-party dominant systems. If factions in a two-party system are in fundamental disagreement on policy goals, or even principles, they can be slow to make policy changes, which appears to be the case now in the U.S. with power split between Democrats and Republicans. Still coalition governments struggle, sometimes for years, to change policy and often fail altogether, post World War II France and Italy being prime examples. When one party in a two-party system controls all elective branches, however, policy changes can be both swift and significant. Democrats Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt and Lyndon Johnson were beneficiaries of such fortuitous circumstances, as were Republicans as far removed in time as Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan. Barack Obama briefly had such an advantage between 2009 and 2011. As of 2017, President Donald Trump currently enjoys Republican control of both the house and senate.\n\nPolitical parties are funded by contributions from\n\nPolitical parties, still called factions by some, especially those in the governmental apparatus, are lobbied vigorously by organizations, businesses and special interest groups such as trade unions. Money and gifts-in-kind to a party, or its leading members, may be offered as incentives. Such donations are the traditional source of funding for all right-of-centre cadre parties. Starting in the late 19th century these parties were opposed by the newly founded left-of-centre workers' parties. They started a new party type, the mass membership party, and a new source of political fundraising, membership dues.\n\nFrom the second half of the 20th century on parties which continued to rely on donations or membership subscriptions ran into mounting problems. Along with the increased scrutiny of donations there has been a long-term decline in party memberships in most western democracies which itself places more strains on funding. For example, in the United Kingdom and Australia membership of the two main parties in 2006 is less than an 1/8 of what it was in 1950, despite significant increases in population over that period.\n\nIn some parties, such as the post-communist parties of France and Italy or the Sinn Féin party and the Socialist Party, elected representatives (i.e. incumbents) take only the average industrial wage from their salary as a representative, while the rest goes into party coffers. Although these examples may be rare nowadays, \"rent-seeking\" continues to be a feature of many political parties around the world.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, it has been alleged that peerages have been awarded to contributors to party funds, the benefactors becoming members of the House of Lords and thus being in a position to participate in legislating. Famously, Lloyd George was found to have been selling peerages. To prevent such corruption in the future, Parliament passed the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act 1925 into law. Thus the outright sale of peerages and similar honours became a criminal act. However, some benefactors are alleged to have attempted to circumvent this by cloaking their contributions as loans, giving rise to the 'Cash for Peerages' scandal.\n\nSuch activities as well as assumed \"influence peddling\" have given rise to demands that the scale of donations should be capped. As the costs of electioneering escalate, so the demands made on party funds increase. In the UK some politicians are advocating that parties should be funded by the state; a proposition that promises to give rise to interesting debate in a country that was the first to regulate campaign expenses (in 1883).\n\nIn many other democracies such subsidies for party activity (in general or just for campaign purposes) have been introduced decades ago. Public financing for parties and/ or candidates (during election times and beyond) has several permutations and is increasingly common. Germany, Sweden, Israel, Canada, Australia, Austria and Spain are cases in point. More recently among others France, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands and Poland have followed suit.\n\nThere are two broad categories of public funding, direct, which entails a monetary transfer to a party, and indirect, which includes broadcasting time on state media, use of the mail service or supplies. According to the Comparative Data from the ACE Electoral Knowledge Network, out of a sample of over 180 nations, 25% of nations provide no direct or indirect public funding, 58% provide direct public funding and 60% of nations provide indirect public funding. Some countries provide both direct and indirect public funding to political parties. Funding may be equal for all parties or depend on the results of previous elections or the number of candidates participating in an election. Frequently parties rely on a mix of private and public funding and are required to disclose their finances to the Election management body.\n\nIn fledgling democracies funding can also be provided by foreign aid. International donors provide financing to political parties in developing countries as a means to promote democracy and good governance. Support can be purely financial or otherwise. Frequently it is provided as capacity development activities including the development of party manifestos, party constitutions and campaigning skills. Developing links between ideologically linked parties is another common feature of international support for a party. Sometimes this can be perceived as directly supporting the political aims of a political party, such as the support of the US government to the Georgian party behind the Rose Revolution. Other donors work on a more neutral basis, where multiple donors provide grants in countries accessible by all parties for various aims defined by the recipients. There have been calls by leading development think-tanks, such as the Overseas Development Institute, to increase support to political parties as part of developing the capacity to deal with the demands of interest-driven donors to improve governance.\n\nGenerally speaking, over the world, political parties associate themselves with colors, primarily for identification, especially for voter recognition during elections. \n\n• Blue generally denotes conservatism.\n\n• Yellow is often used for liberalism or libertarianism. \n\n• Red often signifies social democratic, socialist or communist parties. \n\n• Green is often associated with green politics, Islamism, agrarianism and Irish republicanism.\n\n• Orange is the traditional color of Christian democracy. \n\n• Black is generally associated with fascist parties, going back to Benito Mussolini's blackshirts, but also with Anarchism. Similarly, brown is sometimes associated with Nazism, going back to the Nazi Party's tan-uniformed storm troopers.\n\nColor associations are useful for mnemonics when voter illiteracy is significant. Another case where they are used is when it is not desirable to make rigorous links to parties, particularly when coalitions and alliances are formed between political parties and other organizations, for example: \"Purple\" (Red-Blue) alliances, Red-green alliances, Blue-green alliances, Traffic light coalitions, Pan-green coalitions, and Pan-blue coalitions.\n\nPolitical color schemes in the United States diverge from international norms. Since 2000, red has become associated with the right-wing Republican Party and blue with the left-wing Democratic Party. However, unlike political color schemes of other countries, the parties did not choose those colors; they were used in news coverage of 2000 election results and ensuing legal battle and caught on in popular usage. Prior to the 2000 election the media typically alternated which color represented which party each presidential election cycle. The color scheme happened to get inordinate attention that year, so the cycle was stopped lest it cause confusion the following election.\n\nThe emblem of socialist parties is often a red rose held in a fist. Communist parties often use a hammer to represent the worker, a sickle to represent the farmer, or both a hammer and a sickle to refer to both at the same time.\n\nThe emblem of Nazism, the swastika or \"hakenkreuz\", has been adopted as a near-universal symbol for almost any organised white supremacist group, even though it dates from more ancient times.\n\nSymbols can be very important when the overall electorate is illiterate. In the Kenyan constitutional referendum, 2005, supporters of the constitution used the banana as their symbol, while the \"no\" used an orange.\n\nDuring the 19th and 20th century, many national political parties organized themselves into international organizations along similar policy lines. Notable examples are The Universal Party, International Workingmen's Association (also called the First International), the Socialist International (also called the Second International), the Communist International (also called the Third International), and the Fourth International, as organizations of working class parties, or the Liberal International (yellow), Hizb ut-Tahrir, Christian Democratic International and the International Democrat Union (blue). Organized in Italy in 1945, the International Communist Party, since 1974 headquartered in Florence has sections in six countries. Worldwide green parties have recently established the Global Greens. The Universal Party, The Socialist International, the Liberal International, and the International Democrat Union are all based in London.\nSome administrations (e.g. Hong Kong) outlaw formal linkages between local and foreign political organizations, effectively outlawing international political parties.\n\nFrench political scientist Maurice Duverger drew a distinction between \"cadre\" parties and \"mass\" parties. Cadre parties were political elites that were concerned with contesting elections and restricted the influence of outsiders, who were only required to assist in election campaigns. Mass parties tried to recruit new members who were a source of party income and were often expected to spread party ideology as well as assist in elections. Socialist parties are examples of mass parties, while the Conservative Party in the UK and the German Christian Democratic Union in Germany are examples of hybrid parties. In the United States, where both major parties were cadre parties, the introduction of primaries and other reforms has transformed them so that power is held by activists who compete over influence and nomination of candidates.\n\nKlaus von Beyme categorised European parties into nine families, which described most parties. He was able to arrange seven of them from left to right: Communist, Socialist, Green, Liberal, Christian democratic, Conservative and Libertarian. The position of two other types, Agrarian and Regional/Ethnic parties varied.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5722153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5722153", "title": "Public Whip", "text": "Public Whip\n\nThe Public Whip is a parliamentary informatics project that analyses and publishes the voting history of MPs in the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nIt was developed by Francis Irving and Julian Todd following the 18 March 2003 Parliamentary Approval for the invasion of Iraq as a tool to record which MPs had defied their party's whip long after the information had become effectively inaccessible for reference.\n\nOn 1 August 2011 Irving and Todd handed control of the site to a new team.\n\nThe project is loosely affiliated to mySociety's TheyWorkForYou with which it shares a large part of the same parliamentary parsing code-base.\n\nIn 2014 the OpenAustralia Foundation launched a fork of the project for Australia’s federal parliament called They Vote For You .\n\nIn 2004 the Public Whip won the \"New Statesman\" New Media Award for \"civic renewal\".\n\nThe site has never received a grant from any funding body and remains entirely paid for by its creators, including server costs and bandwidth.\n\nOriginally the software was written in Perl, and then later rewritten in Python. The main process downloads the daily transcripts from the online Hansard, matches and assigns IDs to the names of MPs, and saves them into XML files. These are later uploaded into a mySQL table and viewed through PHP webpages.\n\nAt the end of 2003 the project was extended to read the archive of Parliamentary Written Answers. Following a request from mySociety, the Parliamentary Parser was expanded to include House of Commons and Westminster Hall debates, and finally the House of Lords, which are all more or less in the same format. It is now maintained by them to provide the data to their TheyWorkForYou website.\n\nThe website has occasionally been cited in newspaper articles, and is sometimes referred to in election material. It has also been used to provide voting analysis to citizens during elections.\n\nAn election quiz which advised voters of which party or incumbent candidate most closely matched their political opinions (according to the Parliamentary vote) was on the site for the 2005 General election and received over 10,000 hits.\n\nIn anticipation of preparing a version of it again for the next general election, Julian has distributed leaflets and tried out variations of the site at the Crewe and Nantwich by-election, 2008 and the 2008 Glenrothes by-election.\n\nFrancis Irving currently does programming work for mySociety, most recently \"WhatDoTheyKnow\", a site that provides an on-line interface to the Freedom of Information Act 2000.\n\nJulian Todd has extended the concept of parsing transcripts for speeches and votes to the General Assembly and Security Council of the United Nations with a website called undemocracy.com established in 2007. The work was motivated by the discovery of the transcripts on-line during research into the application of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267 in his home town of Liverpool.\n\n"}
{"id": "22009212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22009212", "title": "Rauch-Haus-Song", "text": "Rauch-Haus-Song\n\nThe West Berlin band Ton Steine Scherben's Rauch-Haus-Song describes the occupation by squatters of the former Bethanien-Krankenhaus (Bethanien hospital), from the viewpoint of the squatters. The title reflects the fact that the squatters renamed the building \"The Georg-von-Rauch-Haus\" after Georg von Rauch, a leftist extremist who died in a shootout with police in 1971. Within the German squatter movement, the song became a classic, with the refrain \"Das ist unser Haus\" (This is our house) being shouted out as a motto. The song appears on the album Keine Macht für Niemand.\n\nWestBam published a Remix on \"Pop 2001 - Geschichte wird gemacht\" in 2001.\n\nR:\"Und wir schreien's laut:Ihr kriegt uns hier nicht raus!Das ist unser Haus, schmeißt doch endlichSchmidt und Press und Mosch aus Kreuzberg raus.\n\n(Refrain:) \nAnd we shout it loud: You won't get us out!This our house, At long last kick Schmidt and Press and Mosch out of Kreuzberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1248309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1248309", "title": "Resident magistrate", "text": "Resident magistrate\n\nA resident magistrate is a title for magistrates used in certain parts of the world, that were, or are, governed by the British. Sometimes abbreviated as RM, it refers to suitably qualified personnel—notably well versed in the law—brought into an area from outside as the local magistrate, typically to be the guiding hand amongst other lay magistrates.\n\nIn colonial history, resident magistrates have had gubernatorial functions in a few minor, isolated colonial settlements, such as:\n\nResident magistrates' courts remain in operation as one of the divisions of the judiciary of Jamaica, hearing civil and criminal cases in each parish of the island.\n\nIn pre-independence Ireland, a Resident Magistrate was a stipendary magistrate appointed to a county (outside of the Dublin Metropolitan Police District) to sit among the justices of the peace at Petty Sessions in that county. They were appointed by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland (in reality, therefore, by the Dublin Castle administration in Ireland).\n\nThe role of resident magistrate was created on a somewhat trial basis in 1814, and extended to the entire country by the Constabulary (Ireland) Act 1836. The resident magistrate was supposed to sit amongst the justices at Petty Sessions—the courts of summary jurisdiction in pre-independence Ireland—and guide the justices to apply the law imparitally. In reality they came to preside at Petty Sessions, and even sit alone without justices. RMs did not need to be legally trained in pre-independence Ireland, and many were ex-British Army officers. The \"Resident\" referred to the requirement that the magistrate live in the county to which he was assigned.\n\nThe role was often criticised as being under the influence of the Dublin Castle administration, and Irish politicians often cited the \"RM\" as really standing for \"Removable Magistrate\", since they held office at the Lord Lieutenant's pleasure and could be removed.\n\nThe office of RM was unique in the United Kingdom to Ireland, and in the 20th century, led to the modern position in both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland whereby courts of summary jurisdiction (the District Court in the Republic and Magistrates' Courts in Northern Ireland), are composed of legally qualified district judges sitting alone. This is in sharp contrast to England and Wales where magistrates courts mainly consist of benches of three lay justices and there are only a minority of paid district judges (magistrates' courts). In Scotland Justice of the Peace Courts are also primarily staffed by lay magistrates.\n\nIn the part of Ireland that was to become the Irish Free State, Petty Sessions could not be held for many years due to the Irish War of Independence, restricting the role of the RMs. On 23 August 1922, the Provisional Government of Ireland placed all of the RMs on leave, and at the end of September 1922 it terminated all commissions of the peace, effectively dismissing all the RMs and justices of the peace. This was not quite the end of the office of Resident Magistrate, as it then proceeded to appoint 27 solicitors and barristers to the post. Although appointed to the position of Resident Magistrate, the Provisional Government only publicly described these individuals as District Justices, and brought in legislation in 1923 (the District Justices (Temporary Provisions) Act 1923) to officially change the name of the position. The Courts of Justice Act 1924 finally abolished the office and transferred its jurisdiction to the District Court of Justice. The Justices of the District Court continued to be popularly called District Justices until the position was renamed Judge of the District Court (or District Judge) in 1991.\n\nThe position continued as before in Northern Ireland until 1935, when the Summary Jurisdiction and Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) was passed. From then on Resident Magistrates had to be legally qualified solicitors or barristers in Northern Ireland of at least six years' standing. Petty Sessions (which later became known as Magistrates' Courts) would henceforth consist solely of a resident magistrate sitting alone. Since the passing of the Justice (Northern Ireland) Act 2002, two lay magistrates sit with the district judge in Youth Court (criminal proceedings involving children) and Family Proceedings Court (family law) matters, but the judge still sits alone in other matters. Where lay magistrates sit with the judge, the judge presides and guides the lay magistrates in the law. The position was renamed District Judge (Magistrates Court) in 2008.\n\nThe book \"Some Experiences of an Irish RM\" by Edith Somerville and Violet Florence Martin, published in 1899 focused on a fictional Irish RM, Major Yeates. Two sequels were written and a TV situation comedy, \"The Irish R.M.\", produced by RTÉ and UTV, which ran between 1983 and 1985.\n\nWhen the Caprivi Strip (formerly German Barotse- or Zambezi-land, in present Namibia) which had been administered by British Military Administrators since 21 September 1914 formally came under the administration of the British high commissioners for Southern Africa, the last Military Administrator stayed on as the first of only two Deputy magistrates, the highest British colonial official actually resident in the Strip:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55565491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55565491", "title": "Rose Rosenberg", "text": "Rose Rosenberg\n\nRose Rosenberg, CBE (1 September 1892 – 13 April 1966) was a Jewish English woman who served as the private secretary for statesman Ramsay MacDonald from 1923 to 1935. Prior to her employment with MacDonald, she worked in the National Council for Civil Liberties with those opposed to conscription and was the personal assistant of suffragette, Margaret Mackworth, 2nd Viscountess Rhondda. She was known for her ability to keep secrets, monitoring those who wished to engage with MacDonald, and earned the nickname \"Miss Rose of No. 10\" from the international press. She was honored as a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1930. In later life, she worked for the British publicity office of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and in various positions during World War II providing assistance.\n\nRose Rosenberg was born on 1 September 1892 in Spitalfields, a parish of London, England to Rachel (née Rosenthal) and Isaac Rosenberg. Both of her parents were born in Russia and were naturalized citizens of Britain. At a young age, she began studying piano and wanted to become a professional musician. Completing her elementary schooling, she enrolled at a commercial college and took university extension classes, learning shorthand and typing. Family circumstances forced her to leave her studies at the age of fourteen. Rosenberg joined the Women's Social and Political Union while still a teenager, working for women's suffrage and during World War I became a pacifist, assisting conscientious objectors with her knowledge of the various military acts. She had been hired as an assistant to the director of the National Council for Civil Liberties and when he left for health reasons, she took over the post. Simultaneously, at age seventeen, she became editor of a mining magazine and joined the Fabian Society. The following year, she became the private secretary of Lady Rhondda.\n\nIn 1919, she joined the general staff of the Parliamentary Labour Party and in 1923 was hired by Ramsay MacDonald, the Labour Party leader, as his private secretary. When MacDonald became Prime Minister (PM) she earned the nickname in the press as \"Miss Rose of No. 10\", after 10 Downing Street, headquarters of the Government of the United Kingdom. She remained at her post when he resigned the premiership in 1925 and became the leader of the opposition. From 1929 through MacDonald's second posting as PM, which ended in 1935, Rosenberg was the conduit for information between him and both the press and the House of Commons. \n\nRosenberg maintained the correspondence of MacDonald, keeping the only other key to his confidential papers. She and his daughter Ishbel MacDonald became friends and together they tried to shield him from the pressures of office. In 1928, she became the first woman admitted to the House of Commons' Strangers' Dining Room and the following year accompanied MacDonald on a visit to the United States, the first time a sitting British PM had come to the US. She was honored as a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1930. She served him until 1937 and left in June to serve as an executive at the British branch of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in charge of their publicity. \n\nOn 2 October 1939, Rosenberg married Laszlo Hoenig, a Hungarian architect and interior designer, in Chelsea, London Her husband opened a furniture showroom of his modernist designs in Mayfair. During World War II, she worked with Lady Reading at the Women's Voluntary Service for Civil Defence. She also worked on the Committee of Friends of the Hebrew University and performed work with refugees. She and Hoenig divorced in 1954 and she returned as a legal advisor to the National Council for Civil Liberties.\n\nHoenig died on 13 April 1966, in London. She was remembered as the \"power behind Ramsay MacDonald's throne\" for her ability to maintain discretion and to navigate and manage communications conduits to and from the Prime Minister. Though in later life she would give interviews about office procedures during her tenure with MacDonald, she refused to publish a memoir or divulge information on the personalities or business to which she was privy.\n\n"}
{"id": "17224655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17224655", "title": "Saeed Mortazavi", "text": "Saeed Mortazavi\n\nSaeed Mortazavi (, born 1967) is an Iranian conservative politician, former judge and former prosecutor. He was prosecutor of the Islamic Revolutionary Court, and Prosecutor General of Tehran, a position he held from 2003 to 2009. He has been called as \"butcher of the press\" and \"torturer of Tehran\" by some observers. Mortazavi has been accused of the torture and death in custody of Iranian-Canadian photographer Zahra Kazemi by the Canadian government and was named by 2010 Iranian parliamentary report as the man responsible for abuse of dozens and death of three political prisoners at Kahrizak detention center in 2009. He was put on trial in February 2013 after a parliamentary committee blamed him for the torture and deaths of at least three detainees who participated in the protests against President Mahmud Ahmadinejad's reelection. On 15 November 2014, he was banned from all political and legal positions for life.\n\nBefore his prosecutorial appointment, Mortazavi was a judge.\n\nOn 18 May 2003 he became prosecutor general of Tehran, a position he held until 29 August 2009. The post had been unfilled for the previous eight years, since Iran abolished prosecutors in 1995. In the intervening years judges performed the prosecutor's role.\n\nMortazavi is notable for his involvement in the case of Zahra Kazemi, an Iranian-Canadian photographer who died in the custody of Iranian officials in 2003. As a judge, Mortazevi was involved in some unknown capacity in Kazemi's interrogation. He was later assigned to investigate the disputed circumstances of her death, although it was subsequently reported that Mortazevi had decided to let a military court perform the investigation. In late 2003, the Iranian Parliament issued a report accusing Mortazavi of trying to cover up Kazemi's death and forcing witnesses to the event to change their stories. Murtazevi strongly denied the accusations, although the government of Canada continues to claim that not only did Mortazavi order Kazemi's arrest, but he also supervised her torture and was present when she was killed.\n\nMortazavi is often portrayed in the western media as a symbol of problems within the judicial system of Iran. It has been reported that Iranians call him the \"butcher of the press\". As a judge he shut down 60 pro-reform newspapers.\n\nIn 2004 he was behind the detention of more than 20 bloggers and journalists whom were held for long periods of time and forced to sign “confessions” of their “illicit activities”.\n\nIn 2005, journalists reported receiving death threats after testifying about their alleged torture at the command of Mortazevi. In a press conference, Mortazevi denied the journalists had been mistreated while in state custody. Also in 2005, Murtazevi ordered Iran's major ISPs to block access to Orkut and other blogging and social networking websites.\n\nOn 15 February 2008, it was announced that Mortazavi had banned five Iranian websites that comment on politics and current events. Mortazevi was quoted as saying they were \"poisoning the electoral sphere\" in advance of Iran's mid-March parliamentary elections.\n\nIn 2006, Mortazavi was sent to Geneva as part of the Iranian delegation to the United Nations Human Rights Council, a decision that was met with some criticism at home and abroad, due to Mortazavi's controversial human rights record. Human Rights Watch urged Iran to remove him from the delegation, and other countries to decline to meet with the Iranian delegation until his removal. Mortazevi's first official meeting was with the also-controversial Zimbabwean minister of justice Patrick Chinamasa. Mortazavi took advantage of his position on the delegation to advocate the right of access to high technology, including nuclear power, for all nations. He also warned the council that it should avoid being manipulated into doing the bidding of powerful states, and that it should investigate human rights abuses perpetrated by western powers, notably human rights abuses in the War on Terror, extraordinary rendition, Islamophobia, criticism of the Islamic dress code and veil, and the suppression of the freedom of speech of Holocaust deniers.\n\nIn 2008, it was reported that Mortazavi had detained students due to protest against Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's government; the students alleged abuse while in jail. He has been involved in more contentious cases since then as well. Mortazavi was a prosecutor on the cases of Roxana Saberi, an American-Iranian journalist accused of spying, and Iranian-Canadian blogger Hossein Derakhshan, whose posts were critical of the establishment\n\nDuring the 2009 election dispute across Iran, Mortazavi has been active in suppressing the protests. He has signed arrest warrants for reformers, such as Saeed Hajjarian, and is believed to be instrumental in the more than 600 arrests that have occurred across the nation.\n\nIn early 2010 the Iranian parliament released a report identifying Saeed Mortazavi as \"the main culprit in the scandal\" over the Kahrizak detention center. The report stated that 147 prisoners arrested for participating in demonstrations against irregularities in the 2009 election of President Ahmadinejad had been \"held in a 70-square-metre room for four days without proper ventilation, heating and food on Mortazavi's orders\". Three of the inmates died, including Mohsen Rouhalamini, the son of a \"distinguished government scientist.\"\n\nMortazavi had maintained that the prisoners had \"died from meningitis\" and that \"inoculation kits had been sent to detention centres\" to stop the condition from spreading. This claim was dismissed by an examining doctor, Ramin Pourandarjani, who refused to certify it as the cause of death until he was arrested and forced to do so. Pourandarjani later died mysteriously after being charged with failing to properly treat the prisoners. The report rejected Mortazavi claim.\n\nThe report however also \"strongly rejected\" reports that rape or sexual assault had taken place in the prison. Opposition websites have reported rapes at the prison including the rape of a pro-regime photographer, Saeed Sadaghi, which allegedly led to the closing of the prison. Sadaghi is said to have been accidentally swept up in the mass arrests and held at Kahrizak after which he complained to Supreme Leader Khamenei of his treatment. Khamenei later closed the prison.\n\nOn 31 August 2009, Mortazavi was demoted to deputy prosecutor-general - \"one of six deputies for prosecutor-general Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje'i\" - by the new judiciary chief Ayatollah Sadeq Larijani. Observers disagree over whether the post was a promotion to \"deputy to the nation's top prosecutor,\" with \"a fancy title and protection from future legal action,\" or \"a demotion\" that strips him of powers he had enjoyed, such as the ability to order an arrest or halt to political activities.\n\nIn 2010 Mortazavi was appointed head of Iran's Task Force Against Smuggling, shortly after he was discredited by the release of a report by the Iranian parliament naming him as the man largely responsible for abuse of political prisoners committed in July 2009 by state security forces at the Kahrizak detention center. The appointment was seen by some as an example of President Ahmadinejad's loyalty to his \"dwindling\" band of core supporters.\n\nMortazavi was \"head of Iran's Social Security Organization\", a presidentially-appointed post. In January 2013, Iran's parliament successfully \"lobbied to have him removed\" from this position, but following that, Ahmadinejad reappointed him as head of the organization in a \"caretaker role\".\n\nIn late August 2010, Saeed Mortazavi and two judges were suspended from office after a judicial investigation into the deaths of three men from torture detained on his orders following the controversial June 2009 presidential election. This stripped him of his immunity as a member of the judiciary. On 5 February 2013 a statement posted on the Tehran prosecutor's website announced Mortazavi's arrest. Two days later he was released. No explanation was given for either the detention or his release at the time.\n\nThe trial of Mortazavi and two co-defendants began on 26 February 2013. Charges against Mortazavi and his former deputy Ali Akbar Heydarifar, and former Judge Hassan Zareh Dehnavi include unlawful arrest, filing a false report, and assisting in the filing of a false report. \"There are conflicting reports on whether the three also face murder charges.\" On the opening day of proceedings, the presiding Judge—Siamak Modir Khorasani—announced the trial would be held behind closed doors.\n\nThe lack of transparency of the trial has been criticized by Shirin Ebadi and others. According to Ebadi \nThe accused in this case, particularly former prosecutor Said Mortazavi, received direct orders from officials above him - including the Leader. Therefore, [the authorities] would never dare put him on trial in public.\"\n\nAccording to journalists Golnaz Esfandiari and Mohammad Zarghami and other sources, the trial is \"widely seen as an indirect move against Ahmadinejad\", since he had \"used Mortazavi to bring corruption charges against his political rivals\" in the past. The arrest came a day after Ahmadinejad \"released a secret video in parliament where Mortazavi allegedly discussed a fraudulent business deal, implicating Iran's highly influential Larijani family\".\n"}
{"id": "892479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=892479", "title": "Secessionist movements of Canada", "text": "Secessionist movements of Canada\n\nThere have been various movements within Canada for secession.\n\nThere is a secessionist movement in Newfoundland based on its unique history, and as a result of its grievances and broken promises with both the federal government and the government of Quebec. Prior to 1949 the area was a self-governing Dominion (Dominion of Newfoundland). \"The root of our trouble is centred in the relationship between the two countries, between Newfoundland as a country and Canada\" according to James Halley, a former lawyer involved in negotiating a deal to get Newfoundland into Canada in 1949. According to a July 2003 report, secessionism was on the rise In 2004, a \"flag flap\" occurred when the premier of Newfoundland and Labrador removed all Canadian flags from government buildings and raised provincial flags instead. Tensions have since eased; however, a non-organized movement has emerged amongst citizens and the ability of potential premiers to appeal to a strong sense of Newfoundland nationalism is imperative to forming a government.\n\nThe secessionist movement in Newfoundland and Labrador is most commonly associated with a flag under several names, including the \"Pink, White and Green\", \"Flag of the Republic of Newfoundland & Labrador\", or officially as the Newfoundland Tricolour.\n\nShortly after the Confederation of three British colonies (Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and the Province of Canada) to form the Dominion of Canada in 1867, opponents of Confederation in Nova Scotia began promoting the withdrawal of that province from the new confederation. The Anti-Confederation Party won 18 of the 19 Nova Scotia seats in the new House of Commons of Canada in the 1867 general election, and 36 of the 38 seats in the Nova Scotia legislature, but did not succeed in achieving independence for Nova Scotia.\n\nIn 1990, just before the failure of the Meech Lake Accord, then-premier John Buchanan predicted Nova Scotia and the rest of Atlantic Canada would have to join the United States if the accord failed.\n\nThe Quebec sovereignty movement seeks independence from Canada for the province of Quebec. This movement often seeks what has been termed \"sovereignty-association\", which is sovereignty for Quebec within an economic association or union with the rest of Canada. Since the Quiet Revolution, the many available options have garnered support from Quebecers.\n\nThe sovereignty movement has spawned a variety of political parties, such as the Parti Québécois, a social democratic political party at the provincial level in Quebec that has governed the province for various periods since 1976, and the Bloc Québécois, which had four of Quebec's 75 seats in the House of Commons of Canada, but until recently regularly won the majority of seats in Quebec. This party aims to promote Quebec's sovereignty and purports to \"defend the interests of Quebec\" at the federal level of government.\n\nThe Front de libération du Québec (FLQ), was a terrorist organization in the 1960s and early 1970s that used violence to promote independence for Quebec. Although they both advocated a sovereigntist agenda, the FLQ and its violent tactics were denounced by the Parti Québécois.\n\nSince the Quiet Revolution, sovereigntist sentiments have been stoked somewhat by the patriation of the Canadian constitution in 1982 which was introduced without the consent of the National Assembly of Quebec and by numerous failed attempts at constitutional reform, which have sought to address Quebec's \"distinct society\". Two provincial referendums, in 1980 and 1995, rejected proposals for sovereignty, with majorities of 60% and 50.6%, respectively. Given the narrow federalist victory in 1995, a reference was made by the Chrétien government to the Supreme Court of Canada in 1996 regarding the legality of a unilateral secession of Quebec. This resulted in the passage of the Clarity Act in 2000.\n\nThe Métis, under the leadership of Louis Riel staged the Red River Rebellion in Manitoba against Canada in 1870, and the North-West Rebellion in Saskatchewan in 1885. At the time, this part of the West was relatively independent, francophone, culturally distinct, and facing the stress of dealing with aggressive colonization by Anglophones from Ontario.\n\nNumerous political parties in the western provinces, believing there to be no other solution for stemming apparent \"Western alienation\" by Central Canada, have sought independence. These movements are strongest in Alberta and British Columbia, but lesser ones exist in Saskatchewan and Manitoba. These movements have also assumed that Canada's northern territories (Yukon, Northwest Territories, and Nunavut) would also be a part of a new Western Canadian union. Parties advocating Western separation include the Western Canada Concept, the Western Independence Party, and the Western Block Party. These parties have not achieved much success, however.\n\nIn the early 1980s, in Saskatchewan, the Unionest Party advocated the western provinces join the United States.\n\nIn 1995, Premier of Saskatchewan Roy Romanow secretly formed a committee on consequences if Quebec seceded. The most seriously studied option was strengthening Saskatchewan's relationships with other western provinces because, Romanow said in 2014, Ontario would become closer to the US economically and Atlantic Canada would become \"an island\". Other possibilities included also seceding from Canada, and joining the US. Romanow said that predecessor Allan Blakeney had similarly studied options for Saskatchewan during the 1980 Quebec referendum.\n\nOn July 12, 2003, the Western Independence Party of Saskatchewan (WIPS) was created and registered as a Provincial Party, running candidates in 17 ridings in the Saskatchewan general election, 2003\n\nA poll by the \"Western Standard\" conducted from June 29, 2005, to July 5, 2005, finds 35.6% of residents of the four provinces think \"Western Canadians should begin to explore the idea of forming their own country.\" \n\nThe Alberta Independence Party promoted independence for the province of Alberta, either on its own or in union with the other western provinces, in the 1990s, but it is now defunct. The Separation Party of Alberta nominated candidates in the 2004 Alberta provincial election.\n\nIn January–February 1868, a small group of settlers declared a Republic of Caledonia, later the Republic of Manitobah, at Portage-la-Prairie in Hudson's Bay Company land that was to be incorporated into Canada. These settlers aimed to use this declaration to obtain favourable terms (for themselves) for the entry of the area into Confederation. The declaration was not recognized by Canadian or British authorities, and the republic soon collapsed.\n\nShortly after joining Confederation, British Columbia threatened to secede after the initial failure of the transcontinental railway promises which were one of its conditions for joining Canada. During the disputes over what led to the Columbia River Treaty, BC Premier WAC Bennett threatened to take BC out of Canada - and to take Yukon as well - if Ottawa and Washington would not accede to his demands.\nThere is an ongoing informal movement in British Columbia to create a separate country of Cascadia.\n\nWhile Yukon lacks a formal separatist movement or party, there is an element of dissatisfaction in the territory as well. However, as anticipation of a Conservative government in Ottawa built, the number of Yukoners that would be in favour of secession (if it included British Columbia and Alberta) has steadily dropped from a high of 18% in August 2005 to a mere 8% by January 2006.\n\nMany First Nations politicians and some First Nations in BC, nearly all claiming and still technically holding unceded sovereignty, want varying degrees of autonomy, with some asserting outright independence.\n\nThe Vancouver Island Party is the first secessionist movement that aims to secede from British Columbia and become a separate province by 2021, instead of leaving Canada like other secession movements.\n\nThe Republic of Madawaska occupied what is now the northwest corner of New Brunswick, and lies partially in Quebec and the American state of Maine. The origins of the so-called republic lie in the 1783 Treaty of Versailles, which established the border between the United States of America and the British North American colonies. The Madawaska region remained in dispute between Britain and the US until 1842. In Canada, Madawaska was considered part of Quebec until the 1850s, when the border with New Brunswick was modified. The so-called \"Republic\" is now a purely ceremonial entity.\n\nOccasionally regions of Canada have declared themselves to be \"independent\" in a non-serious, satirical or promotional way. These \"movements\" are taken for what they are and not considered secessionist.\n\nThe Rathnelly neighbourhood in Toronto made headlines in 1967, while celebrating Canada's 100th birthday. During the celebrations, Rathnelly residents playfully declared themselves as a republic independent of Canada. To mark their independence, the \"Republic of Rathnelly\" elected a queen, organized a parade, and issued Republic of Rathnelly passports to everyone in the neighbourhood. The new nation conscripted all 8- to 14-year-old citizens to form a militia, known as the Rathnelly Irregulars, and armed them with 1,000 helium balloons (the Rathnelly \"air force\"). The \"Republic of Rathnelly\" continues to hold annual street parties.\n\nA millennial tourist-attracting project involved the town of L'Anse-Saint-Jean, Quebec, \"declaring\" itself an independent monarchy. The project, which enjoyed a certain amount of media coverage, was cheerfully admitted to be tongue-in-cheek.\n\n"}
{"id": "415060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415060", "title": "Socialist Campaign Group", "text": "Socialist Campaign Group\n\nThe Socialist Campaign Group of Labour MPs, often known as the Campaign Group, is a left-wing, democratic socialist grouping of Labour Party Members of Parliament in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. It was formed in December 1982 as an alternative Parliamentary left-wing group to the Tribune Group. The Campaign Group, as it is commonly known, is often considered on the hard left of the Labour Party and has been highly critical of New Labour.\n\nBefore 2017, the Campaign Group was only open to backbench MPs; this was reformed to allow all Member of Parliament to be members, but restricted office holders to non-Cabinet/Shadow Cabinet members. It maintains close links with Momentum and other left wing campaign groups within and outside of the party.\n\nThe Socialist Campaign Group was founded in 1982 due to fissures in the Labour left, traditionally organised around the Tribune Group. Tony Benn's decision to challenge Denis Healey for the Deputy Leadership of the Labour Party in 1981 was heavily criticised by Labour's leader, Michael Foot, who had long been associated with the Labour left and Tribune Group. Tribune Group member and future Labour leader Neil Kinnock led a number of Labour MPs to support John Silkin in the deputy leadership election and abstain in the run-off between Healey and Benn. This sowed the seeds for a split in the left between a \"soft left\" supportive of Foot's leadership and a dissenting \"hard left\" organised principally around Benn. The Campaign Group would go on to back Eric Heffer and Michael Meacher in their unsuccessful bids for the leadership and deputy leadership in 1983. The Campaign Group subsequently organised itself around opposition to the direction the party took under the leadership of Kinnock and his successors. \n\nThe Socialist Campaign Group's founding members were Norman Atkinson, Tony Benn, Ron Brown, Dennis Canavan, Bob Cryer, Don Dixon, Stuart Holland, Les Huckfield, Bob Litherland, Joan Maynard, Willie McKelvey, Andy McMahon, Bob McTaggart, Michael Meacher, Ray Powell, Reg Race, Allan Roberts, Ernie Roberts, Ernie Ross, Dennis Skinner and John Tilley.\n\n\nThe following died while still serving in Parliament:\n\nThese members left Parliament voluntarily, either to retire or for new opportunities elsewhere:\n\n\nThese members left the Commons in 1983 following the abolition of their constituencies as a result of redrawing of boundaries:\n\n\nThese members lost their seats in general elections:\n\n\nThe following members were expelled from the Labour Party:\n\n\nThe following members were deselected by their Constituency Labour Parties:\n\n\nIn 2005 Brian Sedgemore resigned the Labour Party whip and defected to the Liberal Democrats.\n\nThe following members resigned their membership of the Campaign Group in 1985 in a show of support for Neil Kinnock's reforms:\n\n\nThe following members resigned their membership of the Campaign Group in 1988 in protest at Tony Benn's decision to challenge Neil Kinnock for the Labour leadership that year:\n\n\nThe following members resigned their membership of the Campaign Group at various points in time when they became front bench spokespersons or members of the government, which was seen as incompatible with membership of the Campaign Group until 2017:\n\n\nThe following members resigned their membership of the Campaign Group for other reasons:\n\n"}
{"id": "32203221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32203221", "title": "Soldiers' National Monument", "text": "Soldiers' National Monument\n\nThe Soldiers' National Monument is a Gettysburg Battlefield memorial which is located at the central point of Gettysburg National Cemetery. It honors the battle's soldiers and tells an allegory of \"peace and plenty under freedom … following a heroic struggle.\" In addition to an inscription with the last 4 lines of the Gettysburg Address, the shaft with 4 buttresses has 5 statues:\n\nA large statue representing the concept of Liberty surmounts the pedestal. Eighteen large bronze stars circling the pedestal below this statue represent the eighteen Union states with buried dead. Four statues are located at each corner near the base. They represent War, History, Peace, and Plenty. War is represented by a statue of an American soldier who recounts the story of the battle to History. In turn, History records, with stylus and tablet, the achievements of the battle and the names of the honored dead. A statue of an American mechanic and his tools illustrates Peace. Plenty is a female figure with a sheaf of wheat and the fruits of the earth that typify peace and abundance as the soldier's crowning triumph.\n\nMassachusetts approved appropriations to the Gettysburg Soldiers' National Monument Association on March 14, 1865; and in May, David Wills invited veterans organizations for the extensive July 4 cornerstone ceremony (lithographs of the \"design proposed by J. G. Batterson\" were available by July 19, 1865.) The monument structure was built at Batterson's works at Westerly, Rhode Island, and the Genius of Liberty grasping sword and laurel wreath was sculpted in Rome (arrived October 1868). The monument without the \"Plenty\" or \"Peace\" statues was dedicated in 1869 with the prayer by Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, followed by an address by Gen. George G. Meade, oration by Senator Oliver P. Morton, and poem by Bayard Taylor. The monument's \"Plenty\" statue was placed on August 26, 1869; and a record of the cornerstone and dedication ceremonies was published in 1874. Contrary to popular belief, the monument does not rest on the site of the oration of the Gettysburg Address.\n"}
{"id": "41236038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41236038", "title": "Sozialistischer Schutzbund (Saar)", "text": "Sozialistischer Schutzbund (Saar)\n\nSozialistischer Schutzbund ('Socialist Protection League', abbreviated SSB) was a paramilitary formation in Saar, linked to the Social Democratic Party of Saarland (SPS). \n\nSSB was formed in 1933 by the Saar organization of the German \"Reichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold\", following the ban of the German mother organization in Germany proper in March/April 1933. The founding meeting was held in the Saarbrücken Workers Welfare House in on March 27, 1933. Jakob Frank was elected as the leader of the organization. \n\nThe name SSB was adopted on June 17, 1933. Through the choice of name the organization manifested that the ideological compromise of the \"Reichsbanner\" had ended. \n\nFrank had gained experience as an organizer in \"Reichsbanner\" and the Iron Front. However, in the background the party chairman Max Braun acted as the \"de facto\" leader of the organization. Braun would inspire many SSB youth activists fighting against a National Socialist take-over in the Saar territory. Heinz Kühn (who later became the Minister-President of North Rhine-Westphalia) was the leader of the youth formation of SSB.\n\nThe set-up of the organization followed that of \"Reichsbanner\" and the Austrian \"Republikanischer Schutzbund\". SSB had its headquarters in Sulzbach. There are no definitive records of the size of the organization. According to one account it counted some 200-300 men in its ranks.\n\nSSB sought to circumvent the ban on uniforms imposed by the Government Commission, and its members wore green shirt, black pants and boots at public appearances. SSB possessed some light handguns and some ammunition, but lacked regular weaponry.\n\nSSB acted as security forces at mass meetings, and during election campaigns smaller teams of SSB fighters confronted the National Socialist groups. SSB activists also acted as body guards for Max Braun, who faced death threats at the time.\n\nA number of the Saar German fighters in the International Brigades during the Spanish Civil War were former SSB members.\n"}
{"id": "33287902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33287902", "title": "Specialty Doctors", "text": "Specialty Doctors\n\nSpecialty Doctor is a new title for senior, career grade doctors working in hospitals in the UK NHS. The previous grades of Staff Grade and Specialty Doctor were subsumed into this new grade when it was introduced in 2008.\n\nThere are more than 9,000 Specialty Doctors in the UK and you are very likely to be seen by one if admitted to the care of a hospital specialist. Most report to a consultant but have many years of specialty experience and they are employed on a contract similar to that for consultants. Specialty Doctors usually perform more direct patient care than their consultant colleagues as they are not normally involved in management, yet will generally have more experience and skills than the majority of their colleagues in the training grades.\n\n"}
{"id": "35610910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35610910", "title": "State governments of Malaysia", "text": "State governments of Malaysia\n\nThe state governments in Malaysia are the governments ruling the 13 states in the federation of Malaysia. All 13 states adopts the Westminster Parliamentary system and each has a unicameral state legislative assembly. The state government structure in all 13 states is similar to the government system of the federal government of Malaysia except for minor native judiciary powers in Sabah and Sarawak and that the state legislatures consist of only a single chamber.\n\nThe heads of state for the 9 monarchical states are their respective monarchs (7 out of them Sultans). The 9 states are Johor, Negeri Sembilan, Pahang, Selangor, Perak, Kedah, Terengganu, Kelantan and Perlis. The heads of state for Penang, Malacca, Sabah and Sarawak are their respective Yang di-Pertua Negeri sometimes referred to as governor. All 13 heads of state forms the Conference of Rulers but only the 9 monarchs can become the Yang di-Pertuan Agong (King of Malaysia). The role of the heads of state are largely ceremonial other than the power to appoint the chief minister or menteri besar (according to the state constitution) and to withhold consent to dissolve the state legislature. The heads of state are required by convention to give their approval or assent to every legislation passed by the state legislature.\n\nThe Head of Government for the 13 states in Malaysia is ruled by either a Minister (Menteri Besar) or Chief Minister (Ketua Menteri), depending on whether their Head of Government is a Sultan or Yang di-Pertua Negeri. \n\nPursuant to Article 73-79 of the Federal Constitution, the state legislature is empowered to legislate on matters such as land matters, public works, local government, agriculture and forestry, Islamic law and public holidays. Pursuant to Article 80 of the Federal Constitution, the state executive in turn has administrative power over all matters which the state legislature may legislate under the constitution. Federalism in Malaysia is quite strong whereby the federal government retains by far more powers compared to the respective state governments. This is also reflected in the budget allocation towards the state and federal government.\n\n"}
{"id": "7675484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7675484", "title": "The Future of Food", "text": "The Future of Food\n\nThe Future of Food is a 2004 American documentary film written and directed by Deborah Koons Garcia to describe an investigation into unlabeled, patented, genetically engineered foods sold in grocery stores in the United States for the past decade. In addition to the US, there is a focus on Canada and Mexico.\n\nThe films voices opinions of farmers in disagreement with the food industry, and details the impacts on their lives and livelihoods from this new technology, and the market and political forces that are changing what people eat. The farmers state that they are held legally responsible for their crops being invaded by \"company-owned\" genes. The film generally opposes the patenting of living organisms, and describes the disappearance of traditional cultural practices.\n\nIt also criticizes the cost of a globalized food industry on human lives around the world. It states that international companies are gradually driving farmers off their land in many countries, that monoculture farming might lead to global dependence of the human race on food corporations, and that there is an increased risk of ecological disasters caused by a reduction of biological diversity. For example, the local varieties of Mexican corn are being replaced by subsidized US corn.\n\nThe film also describes a fear of major losses to local food systems and states that these gene banks will no longer be available to save global industrial agriculture when a new pest arises, and that if they spread to plants in the wild, terminator genes could lead to a widespread catastrophe affecting the food supply. Legal stories reported by the film related how a number of farmers in North America have been sued by the Monsanto Company.\n\n\nThe film was written and directed by Deborah Koons Garcia, produced by Catherine Butler and Koons Garcia, and premiered on September 14, 2005 at Film Forum in New York City to a full house. It has since been released on DVD in both NTSC and PAL formats.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has score of 81% based on reviews from 26 critics. The websites consensus states: \"The Future of Food is a one-sided, but revelatory documentary about the dangers of genetically modified food.\"\n\nWesley Morris of \"The Boston Globe\" made a tongue-in-cheek comparison to the horror genre by writing \"Anyone looking for a more practical horror film than \"The Fog\" should try \"The Future of Food,\" a new documentary about the slippery slope of genetic modification in agriculture\", and shared that in 1998 Monsanto publicly abrogated any responsibility for ensuring the long-term safety of their GMO products and passed that responsibility to the Food and Drug Administration.\n\n\"Variety\" wrote that the film \"is a disturbing—if somewhat bland and partisan—study of agribusiness' aggressive push for genetically-modified food,\" and expressed \"it's a shame writer-director Deborah Koons Garcia opts to show only one side of the argument\". They also felt that seen as \"a rallying cry for organic and slow-food fans everywhere\", the film would find a large audience \"in public interest tube play and activist vid circulation.\"\n\nStephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" called the film a \"sober, far-reaching polemic against genetically modified foods\" with its good guys and bad guys clearly identified.\n\n\"The Georgia Straight\" speaks toward Deborah Koons Garcia advocacy and her opposition to the genetic engineering done by Monsanto. While noting the film's beginning awkwardly with Koons-Garcia's pointing the finger of shame at the political motivation of Monsanto, they concluded it \"gets slightly more hopeful as it goes along\".\n\n\"San Francisco Chronicle\" wrote the filmmaker \"has taken a complex subject and made it digestible for anyone who cares about what they put into their stomachs,\" but also noted that \"Monsanto will attack Garcia's documentary as a piece of unbalanced journalism\".\n\nVictoria Gilman of Chemical & Engineering News criticized the lack of balance in the film, noting that Garcia defended farmers being deprived of the ability to raise non-GMO canola oil despite canola oil itself being a creation of a sort of \"genetic engineering\" (not to be confused with GM technologies) using the science at the time.\n\nThe Organic Consumers Association quoted a lengthy article in \"Wired\", and for OCA, its author Jason Silverman wrote the film \"is Inspiring the Anti-GE Movement in America\". In their later review, OCA called the film \"an engaging and lucid presentation of not only the science of genetic engineering, but of the people and the politics behind what looks to be a pitched battle to control the global food supply\". They shared how documentary filmmaker Deborah Koons Garcia spent 3 years making her film, based on an idea which came to her after her educational series \"All About Babies\" and stemming from a long time concern she has over food production and safety. Her goal was to produce a cross between Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\" and Gillo Pontecorvo's \"Battle of Algiers\". In praising the project, they wrote \"In less skillful hands, a film about genetically modified (GM) food could have been tough sledding for regular folks to sit through.\"\n\n\"New York Post\" called the film \"enlightening\", noting it \"takes dead aim at genetically altered food, [by] arguing that grocery shelves are filled with potentially dangerous items.\"\n\n\"New York Daily News\"gave the film 3 stars and spoke toward the film's tone, writing \"Garcia's somber narration is a turnoff, but this plucky little diatribe gets you thinking about the larger implications facing future generations\".\n\n\"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote the film \"is a powerful, if one-sided, attack on the GM food industry,\" because the filmmaker \"builds a strong case against GM food and its producers\", but a \"major weakness is that the GM producers are not given time to explain their side of the story.\"\n\n\"Seattle Times\" noted that the film used \"every propagandist trick in the book\", supported by \"foreboding background music\", and a \"relentlessly downbeat tone and gloom-and-doom hand-wringing over the way corporate greed is poisoning the globe\" to force their point across, and wrote \"Most of us have some awareness about the debate over genetically engineered food. But it’s a good bet that far fewer people know how insidious these possibly dangerous man-made organisms have become as their invasion into the world’s food supply grows\".\n\n\"The Denver Post\" referred to the film as a \"propaganda documentary\", and commented that while the film's concept had great possibilities with hopes that it would \"become a worthy champion of the little guy\" in its covering of Percy Schmeiser's battle with Monsanto, the film failed because \"filmmaker Deborah Koons Garcia isn't much of a journalist\" and she \"strays from this fascinating case to a generalized attack on biotechnology and corporate farming\", through using \"loose accusations and emotionally dishonest footage to argue her cause\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11203963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11203963", "title": "Thubten Jigme Norbu", "text": "Thubten Jigme Norbu\n\nThubten Jigme Norbu () (August 16, 1922 – September 5, 2008), recognised as the Taktser Rinpoche, was a Tibetan lama, writer, civil rights activist and professor of Tibetan studies and is the eldest brother of the 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso. He was one of the first high-profile Tibetans to go into exile and was the first Tibetan to settle in the United States.\n\nThubten Jigme Norbu was born in 1922 in the small, mountain village of Taktser in the Amdo County of Eastern Tibet. At the age of three, he was recognized by the 13th Dalai Lama as the 24th incarnation of Taktser Rinpoche. At the age of eight, he was taken to Kumbum Monastery in Amdo, the birthplace of Je Tsongkhapa who is the founder of the Gelug sect of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nHistorically, Kumbum was also the frequent residence of previous Dalai Lamas and Panchen Lamas. At Kumbum, Norbu began his training as a monk. At the age of 27, he was selected to serve as the abbot of Kumbum Monastery. At this time, Kumbum was one of the largest monasteries in Eastern Tibet.\n\nKumbum, however was one of the first areas to be invaded by the army of the People's Republic of China (PRC). The PRC held Norbu under house arrest in the monastery, sleeping in his room and following him 24 hours a day. The PRC demanded that he travel to Lhasa, denounce the Tibetan government, and denounce his younger brother the Dalai Lama, who was then about 15 years old. Norbu pretended to agree with the PRC's demands and, as a result, was able to reach Lhasa to warn his brother of the seriousness of the Chinese invasion.\n\nNorbu decided in 1950 that he would leave Tibet and attempt to educate the world about the atrocities in Tibet and the actions of the PRC.\n\nAfter leaving Tibet, Norbu worked continually for Tibet and the Tibetans in exile. He served as the Representative of the Dalai Lama and the Central Tibetan Administration to Japan and North America. He also served as Professor of Tibetan Studies at Indiana University Bloomington. He wrote a number of books, including, in 1959, his autobiography, \"Tibet Is My Country\" as told to Heinrich Harrer and in 1968 \"Tibet: Its History, Religion and People\", with Colin Turnbull. During the years, Norbu frequently lectured about the Tibetan situation at seminars throughout the world.\n\nIn 1979, Rinpoche founded the Tibetan Cultural Center (TCC) in Bloomington, a center devoted to preserving Tibetan culture and religion. In 1989, Colin Turnbull came and participated in the building of Tibetan Cultural Center with him. The facility, renamed the Tibetan-Mongolian Buddhist Cultural Center (or TMBCC) in 2006, has a Cultural Building, housing Tibetan works of art such as a Medicine Buddha sand mandala, and Tibetan butter sculptures. The Cultural Building also has a library of Tibetan-related works and a gift shop where visitors may purchase articles made by Tibetan refugees in exile.\n\nHis brother the Dalai Lama has visited the TMBCC on five separate occasions. In 1987, he dedicated the Changchub Chorten; in 1996 the Dalai Lama consecrated the cornerstone of the Kumbum Chamtse Ling Temple; in 1999, he was at the Center for 12 days when he gave the Kalachakra Initiation for World Peace and Harmony for the Kalachakra stupa; in 2003, the Dalai Lama dedicated the Kumbum Chamtse Ling Temple in an interfaith ceremony; in 2007 he dedicated a new arch at the temple as well as holding a series of classes over six days.\n\nIn 1995, Norbu cofounded the International Tibet Independence Movement (ITIM). He has led three walks for Tibet's independence. In 1995, he led a week-long walk 80 miles from Bloomington, Indiana to Indianapolis, Indiana. In 1996, this was followed by a 300-mile, 45-day walk from the PRC embassy in Washington, DC to the Headquarters of the United Nations, surrounded by New York City. The following year, joined by Dadon with her 3 years old son, he led a 600-mile walk from Toronto to New York City, beginning on March 10 (Tibetan Uprising Day) and ending June 14 (Flag Day). In 1998, ITIM walked for independence starting in Portland, Oregon and ending in Vancouver. In 2000, one arm of ITIM walked from San Francisco and another from San Diego. The two branches met in Los Angeles to greet the Dalai Lama who was giving a teaching and empowerment at Thubten Dhargye Ling.\n\nNorbu lived at the Tibetan-Mongolian Buddhist Cultural Center with his wife Kunyang. They have three sons, Lhundrup, Kunga and Jigme Norbu, all born in New York. In late 2002, Norbu suffered a series of strokes and became an invalid. In 2005, the Dalai Lama appointed the 8th Arjia Rinpoche, another former abbot of Kumbum Monastery, to take over the directorship of the Tibetan-Mongolian Buddhist Cultural Center. Norbu remained until his death part of the daily life of the TMBCC where he was acclaimed as the founder of the facility and the foremost proponent in the world for the recognition and preservation of the culture of Tibet.\n\nNorbu died at the age of 86 on September 5, 2008 at his home in Indiana in the United States having been ill for several years. His body was cremated in a traditional Buddhist ceremony. His youngest son, Jigme, died at the age of 45 on February 14, 2011 while carrying on his father's work. He was hit by a car in Florida during a walk to promote Tibetan independence and raise awareness of Tibet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977610", "title": "Toa-kai", "text": "Toa-kai\n\nThe is a yakuza syndicate based in Tokyo with a predominantly Korean Japanese membership. Originally named the , with its historic leader Hisayuki Machii, the Toa-kai was deeply involved in the history of Tokyo's South Korean community and Japan's anti-communist circles in the 20th century. It is the fifth largest Yakuza clan.\n\nThe group was formed by Hisayuki Machii, a Korean Japanese mob boss, as the Tosei-kai in 1948. The Tosei-kai was originally a reported far-right organization of anti-communist activism led by Machii as a sympathizer of Kanji Ishiwara, which was in conflict with the North Korea-associated General Association of Korean Residents in Japan.\n\nThe Tosei-kai quickly became one of Tokyo's most powerful gangs, and had significantly expanded during the time of the post-war economic growth. Membership reached 1,500 in the 1960s. As the leader of the syndicate, Machii became an essential \"fixer\" between Japan and South Korea.\n\nIncreasing police crackdowns by 1965 forced Machii to disband the Tosei-kai and establish a new gang, the , or \"East Asia Friendship Enterprise Association\". He also formed a \"legitimate\" company called the , or East Asia Enterprises Company, with the famous Yoshio Kodama as Chairman of the Board. Afterwards, the Toa Yuai Jigyo Kumiai changed the name as and Toa-kai.\n\nThe founder Machii retired in the 1980s, and died of heart failure on September 14, 2002 in Tokyo. Also known as a successful businessman, he was 79.\n\nThe Toa-kai is a member of a bakuto fraternal federation named the Kanto Hatsuka-kai, along with four other Kanto-based yakuza syndicates, the Sumiyoshi-kai, the Inagawa-kai, the Matsuba-kai, and the Soai-kai. The Toa-kai has aligned itself with the largest known Yamaguchi-gumi syndicate since the syndicate's Taoka era in the 20th century, and has been closely supported by Shinobu Tsukasa, the sixth-generation godfather of the Yamaguchi-gumi, since 2005 when the sixth era of the Yamaguchi-gumi officially started.\nThe Toa-kai has its headquarters in Ginza, Tokyo ever since its formation. The Toa-kai has its five branch organizations in Tokyo, and one branch organization outside of Tokyo.\n\nThe Toa-kai's notable branch organizations include the . The Yoshimi-kogyo is the Toa-kai's only branch organization based outside of Tokyo. Based on the Okinawa island, the Yoshimi-kogyo is one of the three major yakuza groups in the Okinawa region, along with the Kyokuryu-kai and the Okinawa Kyokuryu-kai.\n\nThe origin of the Yoshimi-kogyo reportedly traces back to the late 20th century, when Toshio Gibo, an ethnic Okinawan mobster, formed an anti-left nationalist organization named the Makoto-kai in Okinawa under influence of Yoshio Kodama. Gibo met with Machii through Kodama, founding an affiliate of the Tosei-kai in Okinawa.\n\nOkinawa's underworld has been known for its exclusiveness since the 20th century, where the dominating Kyokuryu-kai has persistently attacked and violently expelled any yakuza syndicate attempting to enter the island. The reason why the Toa-kai has been able to be active on the island may be because the group has historically been more oriented to legitimate businesses, and of its gentle stance, in contrast to other yakuza syndicates which have attempted to expand their influences into Okinawa with heavy violence, such as the Yamaguchi-gumi and especially the Dojin-kai.\n\nFor example, in 2002 in Okinawa, only one Yoshimi member was arrested, while 56 Kyokuryu-kai members and 95 Okinawa Kyokuryu-kai members were arrested.\n\n"}
{"id": "25181328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25181328", "title": "Uranium bubble of 2007", "text": "Uranium bubble of 2007\n\nThe uranium bubble of 2007 was a period of nearly exponential growth in the price of natural uranium, starting in 2005 and peaking at roughly $300/kg (or ~$135/lb) in mid-2007. This coincided with significant rises of stock price of uranium mining and exploration companies. After mid-2007, the price began to fall again and at the end of 2010, was relatively stable at around $100/kg.\n\nThe upward trend for the prices of uranium was already apparent since 2003. This prompted increases in mining activity. A possible direct cause for the bubble is the flooding of the Cigar Lake Mine, Saskatchewan, which has the largest undeveloped high-grade uranium ore deposits in the world. This created uncertainty about short-term future of the uranium supply. Other factors are speculation triggered by growing expectations around India and China's nuclear programs, and a reduction in available weapons-grade uranium.\n\nThe impact of the bubble on nuclear power generation was small, as most power plants have long-term uranium delivery contracts, and the price of natural uranium makes up only a small fraction of their operating cost. However, the sharp fall in prices after mid-2007 caused a lot of new companies focused on exploration and mining to lose their viability and go out of business. Due to increased prospecting, known and inferred reserves of uranium have increased by 15% between 2005 and 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "550781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550781", "title": "Water resources law", "text": "Water resources law\n\nWater resources law (in some jurisdictions, shortened to \"water law\") is the field of law dealing with the ownership, control, and use of water as a resource. It is most closely related to property law, and is older than and distinct from laws governing water quality.\n\nWater is ubiquitous and does not respect political boundaries. Water resources laws may apply to any portion of the hydrosphere over which claims may be made to appropriate or maintain the water to serve some purpose. Such waters include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nThe history of people's relation to water illustrates varied approaches to the management of water resources. \"Lipit Ishtar and Ur Nammu both contain water provisions, pre-date Hammurabi by at least 250 years, and clearly provide the normative underpinnings on which the Hammurabi Code was constructed.\" The Code of Hammurabi was one of the earliest written laws to deal with water issues, and this Code included the administration of water use. The Code was developed about 3,800 years ago by King Hammurabi of Babylonia.\n\nWater has unique features that make it difficult to regulate using laws designed mainly for land. Water is mobile, its supply varies by year and season as well as location, and it can be used simultaneously by many users. As with property (land) law, water rights can be described as a \"bundle of sticks\" containing multiple, separable activities that can have varying levels of regulation. For instance, some uses of water divert it from its natural course but return most or all of it (e.g. hydroelectric plants), while others consume much of what they take (ice, agriculture), and still others use water without diverting it at all (e.g. boating). Each type of activity has its own needs and can in theory be regulated separately. There are several types of conflict likely to arise: absolute shortages; shortages in a particular time or place; diversions of water that reduce the flow available to others; pollutants or other changes (such as temperature or turbidity) that render water unfit for others' use; and the need to maintain \"in-stream flows\" of water to protect the natural ecosystem.\n\nOne theory of history, put forward in the influential book \"Oriental Despotism\", holds that many empires were organized around a central authority that controlled a population through monopolizing the water supply. Such a hydraulic empire creates the potential for despotism, and serves as a cautionary tale for designing water regulations.\n\nWater law involves controversy in some parts of the world where a growing population faces increasing competition over a limited natural supply. Disputes over rivers, lakes and underground aquifers cross national borders. Although water law is still regulated mainly by individual countries, there are international sets of proposed rules such as the Helsinki Rules on the Uses of the Waters of International Rivers and the Hague Declaration on Water Security in the 21st Century.\n\nLong-term issues in water law include the possible effects of global warming on rainfall patterns and evaporation; the availability and cost of desalination technology; the control of pollution, and the growth of aquaculture.\n\nThe legal right to use a designated water supply is known as a water right. There are two major models used for water rights. The first is riparian rights, where the owner of the adjacent land has the right to the water in the stream. The other major model is the prior appropriations model, the first party to make use of a water supply has the first rights to it, regardless of whether the property is near the water source. Riparian systems are generally more common in areas where water is plentiful, while appropriations systems are more common in dry climates. As water resource law is complex, many areas have some combination of the two approaches.\n\nThe right to water to satisfy basic human needs for personal and domestic uses has been protected under international human rights law. When incorporated in national legal frameworks, this right is articulated to other water rights within the broader body of water law. The human right to water has been recognized in international law through a wide range of international documents, including international human rights treaties, declarations and other standards.\n\nThe human right to water places the main responsibilities upon governments to ensure that people can enjoy \"sufficient, safe, accessible and affordable water, without discrimination\". Most especially, governments are expected to take reasonable steps to avoid a contaminated water supply and to ensure there are no water access distinctions amongst citizens. Today all States have at least ratified one human rights convention which explicitly or implicitly recognizes the right, and they all have signed at least one political declaration recognizing this right.\n\nUnder the \"Constitution Act, 1867\", jurisdiction over waterways is divided between the federal and provincial governments. Federal jurisdiction is derived from the powers to regulate navigation and shipping, fisheries, and the governing of the northern territories, which has resulted in the passage of:\n\nProvincial jurisdiction is derived from the powers over property and civil rights, matters of a local and private nature, and management of Crown lands. In Ontario, Quebec and other provinces, the beds of all navigable waters are vested in the Crown, in contrast to English law. All provincial governments also govern water quality through laws on environmental protection and drinking water, such as the \"Clean Water Act\" in Ontario.\n\nWater law in Australia varies with each state.\n\nA newly formed Tasmanian Water Corporation has compulsorily acquired all drinking water supply infrastructure without payment and does not have direct accountability \n\nIn the United States there are complex legal systems for allocating water rights that vary by region. These varying systems exist for both historical and geographic reasons. Water law encompasses a broad array of subjects or categories designed to provide a framework to resolve disputes and policy issues relating to water:\n\n\nThe law governing these topics comes from all layers of law. Some derives from common law principles which have developed over centuries, and which evolve as the nature of disputes presented to courts change. For example, the judicial approach to landowner rights to divert surface waters has changed significantly in the last century as public attitudes about land and water have evolved. Some derives from state statutory law. Some derives from the original public grants of land to the States and from the documents of their origination. Some derives from state, federal and local regulation of waters through zoning, public health and other regulation. Non-federally recognized Indian tribes do not have water rights.\n\nFor countries within the European Union, water-related directives are important for water resource management and environmental and water quality standards. Key directives include the Urban Waste Water Directive 1992 (requiring most towns and cities to treat their wastewater to specified standards), and the Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC, which requires water resource plans based on river basins, including public participation based on Aarhus Convention principles. See Watertime — the international context, Section 2.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "371551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371551", "title": "Worshipful Company of Ironmongers", "text": "Worshipful Company of Ironmongers\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Ironmongers is one of the livery companies of the City of London, incorporated under a Royal Charter in 1463.\n\nThe Ironmongers, who were originally known as the Ferroners, were incorporated under a Royal Charter in 1463. The Company's original association with iron merchants, however, has lessened, especially due to the movement of the industry from Southern England to the North, where iron ore has been more readily available. The Company today is primarily a charitable institution.\n\nThe Company ranks tenth in the order of precedence of the City of London's livery companies; it is therefore one of the \"Great Twelve City Livery Companies\". The Company's motto is \"God Is Our Strength\".\n\nIronmongers' Hall is the home of the Worshipful Company of Ironmongers. It is located in Aldersgate Street in the City of London. The first hall, dating back to 1457, was in Fenchurch Street; it was rebuilt in 1587 and rebuilt again in 1745 on the same site. The third hall was destroyed on 7 July 1917 by a bomb dropped during World War I. The present Hall stands on land which was bought in 1922: construction work, which was undertaken by Holland, Hannen & Cubitts, started that year and the Hall was opened on 17 June 1925.\n"}
