{"id": "45542782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45542782", "title": "Abdul Ghafoor Bhurgri", "text": "Abdul Ghafoor Bhurgri\n\nAbdul Ghafoor Bhurgri () (January 1921 - 10 February 2015), was a lawyer, writer and politician from Larkana Pakistan.\n\nAbdul Ghafoor Bhurgri was born on 1 January 1921, in village Ghulam Nabi Bhurgri, taluka Shahdadkot. His father Abdul Jalil Bhurgri, was a government employee and also practiced agriculture.\n\nBhurgri received primary education in Shahdadkot and matriculated from Madrassah High School, Larkana. After graduating from C & S College, Shikarpur, affiliated with Bombay University, he attended the Aligarh Muslim University He gained his LLB and Masters in the Persian language between 1942 and 1946.\n\nAfter completing his education, he began to practice law in 1947. Initially he also practiced criminal cases but afterwards focused only on civil cases.\n\nHe was twice Convener of the High Court Bar Association, prior to its elections in 1995-96 and 1996–97 and unopposed President of the District Bar Association in 1989.\n\nHis students included former Chief Justice of Pakistan Rana Bhagwandas, former Law Secretary Parkash Lal, Muhammad Bachal tunio, Abdul Hamid Bhurgri (Additional Advocate General High Court Larkano).\n\nHe sometimes wrote for the newspaper \"Insaf\".\n\nStudent Politics\n\nIn his student life, he joined the Muslim league, as a true soldier of Quaid-e-Azam Mohammad Ali Jinnah.\nHe started his political career at C & S College Shikarpur then Bombay University, by forming of Muslim Student federation and then became its president.\nHe was amongst the freedom fighters from his early life.\n\nMuslim Leageue\n\nHe started his political career from Muslim league and had his political affiliation with Muslim league leader & former Chief Minister Sindh Qazi Fazlullah Ubaidullah & Bhurgri also developed association with former Chief Minister Muhammad Ayub Khuhro in Khuhro's last days.\n\nSecretary All Sindh Adabi Conference\n\nHe not only took part in politics from the platform of the Muslim League, but also devoted his time to literary activities under the flag of Jamaat Shoara-i-Sindh and played a key role in organizing literary conferences in Larkana.\n\nHe was its secretary from 1949 to 1956 when All Sindh Adabi Conference was convened in Larkana.\n\nPresident Larkana Municipal\n\nIn 1953, at the age of 32, he became the first elected president of the Larkana Municipal Committee .\n\nHe was nominated as a member of Sindhi Adabi Board in 1960, and President of Jinnah Citizen Club, Larkana, from 1977 to 1982.\n\nPakistan Peoples Party\n\nIn 1976 he joined the Pakistan Peoples Party, soon after joining the party he was appointed as Deputy General Secretary Sindh. In 1977 he was elected unopposed from PS-31 (Shahdadkot Taluka).\nA special cell of PPP was created at Al-Murtaza Larkana for Abdul Ghafoor Bhurgri to resolve issues of public & was believed to be a close aid to former Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto.\n\nImprisonment\n\nBhurgri was imprisoned five times during 1978 and 1987.\n\nUnited Nations\n\nHe represented Pakistan in the United Nation in 1983 and 1995.\n\nGovernment\nIn 1984 he became minister for revenue and culture for Sindh\nIn 1995 he worked as an adviser to Prime Minister for history & culture ministry.\n\nPublished by Shah Abdul Latif Bhitai Chair, University of Karachi, get online copy from www.Bhurgri.com\n\nHe died on 10 February 2015 at his home in Larkana, aged 94. The funeral prayers were led by Sayyid Ghulam Hussain Shah Bukhari of Dargah Hussainabad (Kamber). In tribute, work at the high court and lower courts of Larkana temporarily ceased.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58638506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58638506", "title": "Alice Ekka", "text": "Alice Ekka\n\nAlice Ekka (Hindi: एलिस एक्का) (8 September 1917 – 5 July 1978) was an Indian Adivasi writer.\n\nEkka was born in Ranchi on 8 September 1917, and was from the Munda community. She was the first tribal woman in Jharkhand to graduate in English, in 1938 at the Scottish Church College in Calcutta.\n\nShe wrote stories in Hindi, publishing in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. A collection of her stories, \"Alice Ekka Ki Kahaniyan\", edited by Vandna Tete, (Radhakrishna Prakashan, ) was published posthumously in 2015. \n\nShe is described as \"India's first female tribal storyteller\", and the centenary of her birth was celebrated with a two-day conference, the \"All India Tribal Women Writer's Meet\", held in her home town of Ranchi.\n"}
{"id": "26051191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26051191", "title": "Aodh mac Diarmada Mac an Bhaird", "text": "Aodh mac Diarmada Mac an Bhaird\n\nAodh mac Diarmada Mac an Bhaird, Irish poet, 1200–1600.\n\nAodh was a member of the Mac an Bhaird bardic family of County Galway and County Donegal.\n\nOnly one extant poem \"Le héanmhnaoi cuirthear clú ban\", has been safely attributed to Aodh. It begins:\n\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em;font-style:italic\">\nLe héanmhnaoi cuirthear clú ban\na clú ó choimmeas ga cur;\nní ríomh do-chóidh ar a crodh;\ni ndíol sgol is dóigh a dhul.\n</poem>\n\nIt mentions the MacMahon of Airgialla which may indicate personal knowledge of the clan and kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "53058741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53058741", "title": "Artemis Alexiadou", "text": "Artemis Alexiadou\n\nArtemis Alexiadou (Άρτεμις Αλεξιάδου, born 13 February 1969 in Volos) is a Greek linguist active in Syntax working in Germany. She is currently Professor of English Linguistics at the Humboldt University of Berlin.\n\nAlexiadou began her studies in Linguistics at the age of 17 at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. After graduating in 1990, Alexiadou undertook a Masters degree at the University of Reading and then continued on to the Zentrum für Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft in Berlin. In 1994 Alexiadou gained a PhD from the University of Potsdam and also passed her Habilitation there in 1999.\n\nAfter gaining a Habilitation, Alexiadou researched at MIT, Princeton University and the University of Pennsylvania on a Heisenberg fellowship and was guest professor in Tübingen and Potsdam. From 2002 until 2015 Alexiadou was Professor for theoretical and English Linguistics and head of the Institute of Linguistics at the University of Stuttgart and also the project \"Sonderforschungsbereich 732\". Since 2015 Alexiadou has been professor for English Linguistics at the Humboldt University of Berlin and assistant director of the Zentrum für Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft.\n\nAlexiadou is an important representative of Generative Grammar in Europe and was president of the association „Generative Linguistics in the Old World“ (GLOW) from 2005 until 2009. Most notably, she has written multiple seminal works on several topics in Syntax. Alexiadou is especially known for her work and expertise on the syntactic structure of the Noun phrase, Adverbs, Voice and Roots.\n\nIn 2014 she was awarded the prestigious Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize, and in the same year was elected a member of the Leopoldina. In 2016 the Norwegian University of Science and Technology awarded Alexiadou an honorary doctorate.\n\n"}
{"id": "3214886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3214886", "title": "BORSCHT", "text": "BORSCHT\n\nBORSCHT is an acronym for the set of functions performed by a subscriber line interface circuit (SLIC) in the line card of a telecommunication system. The letters represent the following functions:\nbattery feed (B), over-voltage protection (O), ringing (R), signaling (S), coding (C), hybrid (H), and test (T).\n\nAn earlier or alternate version of the acronym is BORSHT, lacking the letter \"C\" for the coding function.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "91735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91735", "title": "Bilingual education", "text": "Bilingual education\n\nBilingual education involves teaching academic content in two languages, in a native and secondary language with varying amounts of each language used in accordance with the program model.Bilingual education refers to the utilization of two languages as means of instruction for students and considered part of or the entire school curriculum.\n\nThe following are several different types of bilingual education program models:\n\nThe United States Congress introduced the Bilingual Act in 1968 defining bilingual education’s term program. This program of instruction is intended for children who are not fully proficient in the English language. Instructions are given so pupils can achieve the necessary competence in English as well as their native languages taking into consideration the children’s cultural heritage. This could be integrated into the subjects or courses of study enabling the students to grow effectively throughout the educational system.\n\nThe Elementary and Secondary Education Act (1968) was another meaningful measure for bilingual education. Title VII (Bilingual Education Act) created federal guidelines for bilingual education. The decree recognized the “\"Special educational needs of the large numbers children of limited English-speaking ability in the United States\".” Said Enactment specified the federal government’s obligation to provide subsidy for creative bilingual programs. Title VII was amended many times since its introduction. The decree became part of the America Schools Act in 1994.\n\nDual Immersion classrooms encourage students but with the permission it may be enthusiastic &' native language development, making an important contribution to heritage language maintenance and allows language minority students to remain in classrooms with their native English-speaking peers, resulting in linguistic and socio-cultural advantages (Christian, 1996b). As of May 2005, there were 317 dual immersion programs operating in elementary schools in the United States in 10 different languages(Center for Applied Linguistics, 2005).\n\nDual Language programs are less common in US schools, although research indicates they are extremely effective in helping students learn English well and aiding the long-term performance of English learners in school. Native English speakers benefit by learning a second language. English language learners (ELLs) are not segregated from their peers. These students are taught in their mother tongue yet still in the typical 'American' classroom they need to be in, for both cognitive and social benefits. \n\nMany myths and much prejudice has grown around bilingual education. Researchers from the UK and Poland have listed the most entrenched misconceptions:\n\nThese are all harmful convictions which have long been debunked, yet still persist among many parents. It is important to understand what constitutes the decision for sending children to a bilingual school. The decision should be based on, appropriate age, curriculum, and the preference of the child.\n\nIn spite of these myths surrounding language education, there are numerous significant benefits to a child's development when exposed to secondary language education. The American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages has identified over twenty benefits to a child's development when provided adequate secondary language education, therefore debunking the vast majority of myths that may inhibit such education .\n\nIn the African region, Countries such as Mozambique have taken the lead in bilingual education. The Ministry of Education and Human Development has made primary education fully bilingual in 2017. Children will be taught 16 Mozambican dialects during their early years of schooling. Many African states introduce mother languages as subjects and education tools along commonly spoken international or foreign languages. Mother language instruction is terminated immediately during the schooling cycle and leaves only the international language established. It becomes a disadvantage that contributes to substantial lack of motivation on the part of teachers, students, and parents.\n\nAlthough bilingual schools exist, the majority of Senegalese schools teach in French and follow the French system. However, studies have shown that approximately 80% of teachers use a 'local language' in order to communicate with all of their students.\n\nAsia is the Earth's largest and most populous continent, located primarily in the eastern and northern hemispheres. It includes a large number of countries, some of which are grouped into subregions.\n\nIn the Autonomous regions of China many children of the country's major ethnic minorities attend public schools where the medium of instructions is the local language, such as e.g. Uyghur or Tibetan. Traditionally, the textbooks there were little different from merely a translated version of the books used in the Chinese schools throughout the country; however, as of 2001, a move was on foot to create more teaching materials with locally based content.\n\nClasses of Mandarin as second language are also offered in these minority schools, and the central government makes increasing efforts to make them more effective. A law passed in February 2001 provided for the Mandarin-as-second-language classes in the ethnic-minority schools to start in the early years of elementary school whenever local conditions permit, rather than in the senior years of elementary school, as it was practiced before.\n\nOn the other hand, it has been reported that Chinese has been used as the medium of instructions in some autonomous counties even though less than 50% of the population \"spoke and understood some Chinese\"; this mismatch was thought to have contributed to the low grades earned by the students on the math and Chinese exams.\n\nIn Hong Kong where both English and Cantonese are official, both languages are taught in school and are mandatory subjects. Either English or Cantonese is used as the medium of instruction for other subjects. Increasingly, there are a large number of Mandarin Chinese-speaking schools in operation throughout Hong Kong as well since 1996. Study of Mandarin is mandatory in junior years (from Grade 1 to Grade 9). Hong Kong also has a bilingual education program using both Cantonese and Hong Kong Sign Language.\n\nChinese and Portuguese are the official languages of Macau, but English plays an unofficial and highly prominent role. English is the language of instruction at the University of Macau and at some secondary schools. Other schools use Cantonese as the language of instruction. there was one Portuguese-medium school.\n\nIn Japan, the need for bilingualism (mostly Japanese and English) has been pointed out, and there are some scholars who advocate teaching children subjects such as mathematics using English rather than Japanese. As part of this proposal, subjects such as history, however, would be taught solely in Japanese.\n\nOn the island of Hokkaido, the indigenous and endangered Ainu language is receiving newfound interest with establishment of a small number of bilingual Ainu-Japanese elementary schools.\n\nThe largest non-Japanese, non-native to Japan minority are the Koreans. Bilingual education in Korean language is provided by Korean international schools, more of which are affiliated with Chongryon.\n\nSchools in the Middle East follow dual or triple language programmes. The triple language programme is most commonly found in Lebanon, Tunisia, Syria, and often implemented as well in Egypt. History, grammar, literature and the Arabic language are taught in the native language (Arabic), whereas Mathematics and sciences are generally taught in English and/or French. In Lebanon, however, science and mathematics are taught in either French or English, depending on the school's administration or the grade level. It is not uncommon to find French- or English- only schools, though usually these institutions are primarily international establishments.\n\nIn most Gulf countries as well as Jordan, English is introduced as a second language early on alongside the primary medium of instruction, Arabic. In Iraq however, triple language programmes are, like in Lebanon and Syria, normal, except rather than using French, Kurdish is taught alongside Arabic and English due to Iraq's considerably sized Kurdish minority in the north, and bilingual official language policy regarding Kurdish.\n\nIn Morocco, Berber can be used as a regional medium of elementary education, with widespread use of French and Arabic in higher grades. Due to Morocco's history of French colonialism, sole French-medium education is very widespread.\n\nNormally, Israelis are taught in either Hebrew or Arabic depending on religion and ethnicity. Within the standard education system, thorough study of English is compulsory, and depending on the primary medium of education, Arabic or Hebrew are introduced as third languages with significantly lesser emphasis placed on achieving solid proficiency. Within Hebrew-medium programmes, other foreign languages such as French, German, Russian, or Yiddish can often be studied as well.\n\nIsrael is also home to several international schools whereby the sole medium of education is either English or French. In general, as English is taught early on across all Israeli schools, most Israelis become comfortably bilingual, much like what one would see in The Netherlands or Scandinavian countries. This in combination with a large proportion of English-language programming on television that is merely subtitled and seldom dubbed.\n\nRecent peace initiatives have also led to a small number of bilingual and multi-religious schools in which both Hebrew and Arabic are used in equal emphasis. The runs four bilingual schools, and the Neve Shalom peace village also hosts a local school.\n\nThere has been long standing encouragement to teach at least one other language other than Mongolian. Traditionally Russian language was taught during middle school and high school. After the 1990 transition to democracy, English language has been gaining more ground in Mongolian schools. Today many public schools at all levels teach one other language that are usually English, Russian, Korean, Japanese or Chinese. Although the core curriculum is in Mongolian, it is generally encouraged by the government and the public that the students should have some command of a secondary language when they graduate from high school. Also there are other private schools that teach their curricula in English.\n\nSouth Asia is the southern region of the Asian continent, comprising the sub-Himalayan South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries and, for some authorities, adjoining countries to the west and east.\n\nIn Bangladesh, Bengali is the first language. However, it has a colonial past and English is widely used in administrations, schools, courts etc. Bangladeshi children start English as Second Language quite early in their age (mostly from age 5-6). In National Curriculum, English is given an importance and it is taught compulsorily until twelfth grade. There are Government approved curriculum as well as other international systems of Educations which maintains English as a 'medium of instruction'.\n\nThe official languages of the Union of India are Hindi and English, with 21 other regional languages holding co-official status, including: Assamese, Bengali, Bodo, Dogri, Gujarati, Kannada, Kashmiri, Konkani, Maithili, Malayalam, Manipuri, Marathi, Nepali, Odia, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Santali, Sindhi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.\n\nEducation in India follows the Three-language formula, where children are to be taught English (or the medium of instruction in the school, grades 1-12), The Second Language (grades 1-10) is the Official language of the state (In most non-Hindi states) or Hindi (in the others), in a few states some schools offer a choice between the State Language and Hindi, and the third language (grades 5-8, often Hindi (in the non-Hindi states), the regional language of the state (if the student opted for Hindi as the second language, a foreign language or Sanskrit). An exception is Tamil Nadu where only Tamil and English are taught.\n\nEnglish-medium schools often find favour with parents, especially in urban areas, due to English's international prestige, India's Colonial heritage, its usage in Indian business and it being the medium of instruction in most Indian universities.\n\nis a subregion of Asia, consisting of the countries that are geographically south of China, east of India, west of New Guinea and north of Australia.\n\nIn July 2009 Department of Education moved towards mother-tongue based learning initially by issuing an order which allowed two alternative three-year bridging plans. Depending on the bridging plan adopted, the Filipino and English languages are to be phased in as the language of instruction beginning in the third and fourth grades. Other Philippine regional languages are taught in schools, colleges and universities located in their respective provinces.\n\nIn 2007, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo signed a directive in Spain that would reintroduce teaching and learning the Spanish language in the Philippine school system starting in 2008. The order, Memorandum Order No. 276, s. 2007, issued on November 29, 2007, ordered the Department of Education to encourage the teaching and learning of the Spanish language throughout the country.\n\nIn Singapore, education is bilingual. The medium of instruction is in English and the learning of the mother tongue is compulsory. The mother tongue subject is usually Mandarin, Malay or Tamil, the other official languages of Singapore. They are taught till pre-university level. Previously, students either attended an English-medium or a \"vernacular school\", which taught in one of the mother tongues. In 1960, government legislation standardised the primary medium of instruction to English, with the different vernacular languages (\"mother tongue\") allocated as the second language.\n\nStudents may also choose to learn a third language (German, French, Japanese, etc.) in secondary school and junior college or, if their respective school does not offer the language, at a MOE Language Centre. This option is limited however, to the top 10% of any PSLE cohort; prospective third language students must have also scored A grades for English and their second language. Singaporean students returning from abroad who did not learn a second language may be exempted from their mother tongue and learn another second language in place of the mother tongue; however, such exemptions are rare and only granted on a case-to-case basis.\n\nSince the mid-1990s bilingual approaches to schooling and higher education have become popular in parts of South-east Asia, especially in Thailand and Malaysia where different models have been applied, from L2 immersion (content taught in a non-native language) to parallel immersion, where core subjects are taught in both the mother-tongue and a second language (usually English).\n\nEnglish has been taught in schools in Malaysia as it is a Commonwealth country (former British colony). During the 1980s to 1990s, when schools were nationalised under the government of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, English became a second language instead of the primary language of instruction. The Malaysian government reversed its decision to have Maths and Science taught in English, but is implementing different programmes designed to improve English language teaching within schools. The decision has raised numerous debates, with various groups arguing for and against the use of English in schools. With the existence of vernacular schools and prominent usage of dialects, some Chinese and Indian children become trilingual, speaking Malay, English and their mother tongue or dialect. However, English is still widely spoken as a de facto language of trade and academia.\n\nThe English for Integrated Studies (EIS) project model initiate in 2003 at Sunthonphu Pittaya Secondary School(SPSS), Rayong, Thailand, is an exemplar of the use of English for integrated studies in Math, Science and IT, taught by non-native English speaking Thai teachers. In the year 2015 expanded to 500 schools all region of Thailand. This project is under the auspices of the International Study Program of Burapha University. Wichai Wittaya Bilingual School in Chaing Mai (1995), Siriwat Wittaya Bilingual School in Bangkok(2004) , Chindemanee School English Program (2005), The Sarasas model, pioneered by the Sarasas schools affiliation in Thailand, are exemplars of parallel immersion. Panyaden School is an example of a private bilingual school in North Thailand that provides its students with a Thai-English education (each class has a Thai teacher and native-English speaking teacher).\n\nThe difficulties and disputes characteristic of the US experience have not been replicated in these Asian countries, though they are not without controversy. Generally, it can be said that there is widespread acknowledgment of the need to improve English competence in the population, and bilingual approaches, where language is taught through subject content, are seen to be the most effective means of attaining this. The most significant limiting factors are the shortage of teachers linguistically competent to teach in a second language and the costs involved in use of expatriate native speakers for this purpose.\n\nIn Australia, some schools teach bilingual programs which cater to children speaking languages other than English. Baldauf explains that these programs are now beginning to benefit from more government support. Bilingual education for Indigenous students, however, has only received intermittent official backing. In the Northern Territory, for example, bilingual programs for Indigenous students begun with Federal Government support in the early 1970s, but by December 1998 the Northern Territory Government had announced its decision to shift $3 million away from the 29 bilingual programs to a Territory-wide program teaching English as a second language. Within 12 months though the government had softened its position. Most bilingual programs were allowed to continue under the guise of two-way education. Then on 24 August 2005, the Minister for Employment, Education and Training announced that the government would be \"revitalizing bi-lingual education\" at 15 Community Education Centres: Alekerange, Angurugu, Borroloola, Gapuwiyak, Gunbalanya, Kalkaringi, Lajamanu, Maningrida, Milingimbi, Ramingining, Ngkurr, Shepherdson College, Numbulwar, Yirrkala and Yuendumu. This revitalisation is conceived as part of an effort aimed at \"providing effective education from pre-school through to senior secondary at each of the Territory's 15 Community Education Centres\". As Harris & Devlin (1986) observe, \"Aboriginal bilingual education in Australia represents much more than a range of education programs. It has been a measure of non-Aboriginal commitment to either assimilation or cultural pluralism\". In 2008 it again shifted with the government attempting to force the nine remaining bilingual schools to teach the first four hours of classes in English.\n\nThe \"European Schools\" group is a network of thirteen private schools in EU countries that provide multilingual and multicultural education at nursery, primary and secondary levels.\n\nBelgium has three official languages: Dutch, French and German. The constitution guarantees free education, so private schools can use any language, but state(-recognised) schools teach in the language of the language area where it is located. For Brussels, which is an officially bilingual French-Dutch area, schools use either Dutch or French as medium.\n\nEven though Belgium has two major languages (Dutch in Flanders, and French in Wallonia), bilingual instruction does rarely occur since Belgian law only permits education in one official language. In Flanders, bilingual instruction is only allowed as a short-term project.\n\nFrance has one official language, French. However, regional provincial languages including Corsican, Breton, Gallo, Basque, Franco-Provençal, Occitan, and Catalan have charter protection, and bilingual education programmes and regional language course electives have been established. However, due to the strict French-language policy imposed by national government, there is no centrally allocated funding for any of these programmes. All funding is at the municipal level, with many of the regional languages face extreme endangerment. France is known for wanting to maintain its lingual and cultural roots, and speaking a language other than French or mixing French with other languages is looked down on. This is apparent the French educational system, where French is highly prioritized over other languages and emphasis is put not only on the maintenance of the French language, but also on pushing students not to integrate French with other languages.\n\nIn the Netherlands, there are around 100 bilingual schools. In these schools, the first language is Dutch, whereas the second language is usually English and occasionally German. In the province of Friesland, where West Frisian is an official language, some primary schools are trilingual, teaching in Dutch, West Frisian, and English. Most bilingual secondary schools are TVWO (Bilingual Preparatory Scientific Education), but THAVO (Bilingual Higher General Secondary Education) and TVMBO-TL (Bilingual Preparatory Vocational Education - Theoretical Learning Pathway) have been introduced, too.\n\nThe Republic of Ireland has two official languages, Irish and English. With the Irish language facing endangerment, as well as the presence of regions where Irish is still spoken as native (referred to as the Gaeltacht), the Irish constitution protects and reserves the right for education to be established through the medium of either official language, and it thus is.\n\nAn Irish-medium school is referred to as Gaelscoil (plural, Gaelscoileanna) This movement has been met with some success in that 10% of the schooling in Ireland is conducted in Irish. The movement has also been successful in setting up schools in both urban and rural areas, ranging from Dublin and Cork, to the traditional Gaeltacht regions.\n\nIn Andalusia (Spain's second southernmost region), things have changed drastically concerning bilingual education since the introduction of the Plurilingualism Promotion Plan by the autonomous government. The plan was born as the realization for the Andalusian territory of the European language policies regarding the teaching and learning of languages. With special strength in the past ten years bilingual education has worked at most elementary schools.\n\nIn addition to this new European scene, the Scheme for the Promotion of Plurilingualism has learned a lot from the first experimental bilingual sections set up in some schools by the Andalusian government in 1998. Following the content-based approach, French and German were used to partly teach other subjects. This successful experience, as show the international tests that the students have been given, is the starting point for a more ambitious scene, where 400 schools will be involved in the next four years, more languages, especially English, will take part, and a lot of investigation and implementation of the Integrated Curriculum of languages must be carried out.\n\nBeing aware of the necessity of the Andalusian people to adapt to the new scenario, a major government plan, called \"strategies for the second modernization of Andalusia\", was designed in 2003. The document also underlined language diversity as a source of richness and a valuable heritage of humankind which needs to be looked after.\n\nIt was then clear that a scheme was needed to carry out this new language policy in the territory, especially affecting education, with clear goals, timing and funding.\n\nThe scheme is to be developed through five major programmes and also an organization and assessment plan.\n\nThe programmes are:\n\nIn addition to Castilian Spanish being the primary official language of Spain, the kingdom also has several co-official regional languages which enjoy equal and unbiased constitutional protection and promotion: Catalan/Valencian (in Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands), Galician (in Galicia), Basque (in the Basque Country and the northern zone of Navarre) and Aranese (in Val d'Aran, Catalonia).\n\nMany schools are bilingual in the regional language as well as Castilian at both the elementary and secondary levels. Regional universities also often provide programmes through the regional medium. Education in all co-official languages uses to receive both national and regional funding.\n\nUnlike France in which regional languages face incredible endangerment and possible extinction, Spain's long-established approach to making regional bilingual education mandatory has served often as a model for both the survival and thriving state of the languages indigenous to the country.\n\nSweden has one official language and five recognized minority languages, though Swedish is to great extent the only one of these in which education is offered. During the 21st century more and more schools started to offer national programs in English.\n\nThe British Isles have several indigenous languages apart from English. These include Welsh (official in Wales), Irish, Manx Gaelic, Cornish, Scottish Gaelic, and the Scots language (which is sometimes considered as a dialect of English).\n\nScotland, Northern Ireland, Wales, Cornwall, and the Isle of Man have each established bilingual programmes which provide education through the medium of their indigenous language. Most often, except for the cases of Manx and Cornish, these programmes exist where the language is spoken communally as a first language.\n\nRoughly a quarter of schoolchildren in Wales now receive their education through the medium of Welsh, and children wishing to join a Welsh medium school () do not have to speak Welsh to go to one if they are young enough to learn the language quickly. Welsh medium education has met with great success across Wales since the first such schools opened in the 1940s. There are current plans to extend further provision in urban centres such as Cardiff, Newport, Swansea and Llanelli to cater for growing demand; this has caused controversy in some areas.\n\nWelsh-speaking areas use Welsh-medium education almost exclusively. Parents have a legal right for their children to receive education in Welsh, and each local authority caters for this. In the Western flank of Wales, Carmarthenshire, Ceredigion, Gwynedd and Anglesey, most primary and secondary schools are Welsh medium or have bilingual streams. Some 75-80% of all pupils in Carmarthenshire and Ceredigion receive their education through the medium of Welsh, with this figure increasing in Gwynedd to around 90%.\n\nIn English-medium schools, the study of Welsh is compulsory and must be taught from age 5 to age 16 in all state-funded schools.\n\nIrish Gaelic received official recognition in Northern Ireland for the first time in 1998 under the Good Friday Agreement. A cross-border body known as Foras na Gaeilge was established to promote the language in both Northern Ireland and the Republic.\nThe British government in 2001 ratified the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. Irish Gaelic (in respect only of Northern Ireland) was specified under Part III of the Charter, thus giving it a degree of protection and status somewhat comparable to the Welsh language in Wales and Scottish Gaelic in Scotland. This included a range of specific undertakings in relation to education, translation of statutes, interaction with public authorities, the use of placenames, media access, support for cultural activities and other matters (whilst the Ulster variant of Scots, known as Ulster Scots, was specified under Part II of the Charter.)\n\nThe Education (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 states: \"It shall be the duty of the Department (of Education) to encourage and facilitate the development of Irish-medium education.\"\n\nThere are no Ulster Scots-medium schools, even at primary level.\n\nIn Canada, education is under provincial jurisdiction. However, the federal government has been a strong supporter of establishing Canada as a bilingual country and has helped pioneer the French immersion programs in the public education systems throughout Canada. In French-immersion, students with no previous French language training, usually beginning in Kindergarten or grade 1, do all of their school work in French. Depending on provincial jurisdiction, some provinces also offer an extended French program that begins in grade 5 which offers relatively more courses in French. In this case the student takes French immersion until grade nine but may continue throughout their high school education. Similar English-immersion programmes also exist for Francophone children.\n\nEducation is generally monolingual in either English or French according to the majority population within which a school is located. The second official language is introduced with allocated time provided each week for instruction in the language as a subject.\n\nQuebec is Canada's only legally monolingual French-speaking province. Based on section 59 of Canada's Constitution Act of 1982, provides that not all of the language rights listed under Canada's official bilingualism policy in previous section 23 will apply in Quebec. Specifically:\n\n(1) In Quebec, a child may be educated in English only if at least one parent or a sibling was educated in Canada in English.\n\n(2)In New Brunswick, Canada's only officially bilingual province, students have the right to education in the official language which they understand; students able to understand both languages have the right to education in either system.\n\n(3) In the rest of Canada, a child may be educated in French if at least one parent or a sibling was educated in Canada in French, or if at least one parent has French as his or her mother tongue (defined in section 23 as \"first language learned and still understood\").\n\nOne practical consequence of this asymmetry is that all migrants who arrive in Quebec from foreign countries are required to place their children in French-language schools. This includes immigrants whose mother tongue is English and immigrants who received their schooling in English.\n\nOn the other hand, Section 23 provides a nearly universal right to English-language schooling for the children of Canadian-born anglophones living in Quebec.\nSection 23 also provides, in theory, a nearly universal right to French-language schooling for the children of all francophones living outside Quebec, including immigrants from French-speaking countries who settle outside Quebec, and who are Canadian citizens.\n\nAnother element of asymmetry between Quebec and most anglophone provinces is that while Quebec provides public English-language primary and secondary education throughout the province, most other provinces provide French-language education only \"where numbers warrant.\"\n\nCanada also has bilingual programmes for First Nations' languages on numerous Canadian aboriginal reserves in combination with either English, French, or both. Some programmes are gradually being established, whilst others are already long established. Most notable bilingual programmes that exist include Inuktitut, Inuinnaqtun, Cree, Blackfoot, Ojibwe, Mohawk, Mi'kmaq, and Pacific Coast Salish languages.\n\nMany of these programmes were set up in the late 1980s and early 1990s by academic linguists wishing to preserve the languages, respectively - especially in areas where there either is a healthy speaking base, or an endangerment of as low as two remaining speakers of a language. Prior to this, as late as the 1970s and early 1980s, First Nations and Inuit in Canada, as Native Americans in the United States, were forced into residential schools imposed on them by the Canadian government to integrate indigenous cultures into European-Canadian society. This came with the dramatic loss of the languages, religious beliefs, and cultures themselves due to widespread use of corporal punishment and mental abuse. As of 2010, new programmes are mushrooming across Canada to try to save what is left, but are often met with mixed success and funding challenges at federal, provincial, and reserve levels.\n\nIn the province of British Columbia, the city of Vancouver since 2002 has established a new bilingual Mandarin Chinese-English immersion programme at the elementary school level in order to accommodate Vancouver's both historic and present strong ties to the Chinese-speaking world, already in itself having a very sizeable Chinese population local to the city. Six Vancouver schools have thus far adopted the programme, and a secondary school track to continue thereupon is being designed. Other suburbs within what is referred to as the Greater Vancouver Regional District are also considering adopting the programme into a small number of schools. Similar programmes are being developed for both Hindi and Punjabi to serve in representing the large South Asian cultural community and its interests in the City of Surrey. By default, most schools in British Columbia teach through English, with French immersion options available. In both English and French-medium schools, one can study and take government exams in Japanese, Punjabi, Mandarin Chinese, French, Spanish, and German at the secondary level.\n\nIn Alberta, the city of Edmonton has had a well established Chinese (Mandarin) bilingual education program (Edmonton Chinese Bilingual Education Association) since 1982. The program is currently offered in 13 schools throughout the city consisting of 6 elementary schools, 4 junior high schools and 3 high schools. Students enrolled in any of the elementary schools spend half a day learning in Chinese and the other half in English.\n\nIn Manitoba, Ukrainian communities have played an extensive role in the development and history of the province. Bilingual Ukrainian-English education programmes have therefore long been established, alongside smaller programmes introducing and implementing French, Icelandic in the town of Gimli, and First Nations' languages.\n\nPrivate Islamic and Jewish schools across Canada also have bilingual and trilingual programmes that include Arabic or Hebrew, respectively.\n\nIn Cape Breton and other parts of Nova Scotia, a number of secondary schools now offer the option of taking introductory courses in Scottish Gaelic, as reflecting upon the province's both intimate and dark history with the Gaelic language and Highland Scottish diaspora.\n\nBilingual education in the U.S. focuses on English Language Learners (ELL).\n\nThe emphasis on English rejects that the student has a dominant language as part of their identity and culture that will continue to develop with time. According to the U.S. Department of Education website, a bilingual education program is \"an educational program for limited English proficient students\". (The Office of English Language Acquisition, 2009). The term \"limited English proficiency\" remains in use by the federal government, but has fallen out of favor elsewhere. According to Bankstreet's Literacy Guide this shift is due to the fact that the term ELL represents a more accurate reflection of language acquisition. The term \"English language learner\" is now preferred in schools and educational research to refer to a student whose first language is not English and who needs language support services in order to succeed in school.\n\nIn the United States, proponents of the practice argue that it will not only help to keep non-English-speaking children from falling behind their peers in math, science, and social studies while they master English, but such programs teach English better than English-only programs. For many students, the process of learning literacy and a new language simultaneously is simply an overwhelming task, so bilingual programs began as a way to help such students develop native language literacy first - research by Cummins, a central researcher in the field, shows that skills such as literacy developed in a first language will transfer to English. Opponents of bilingual education argue that it delays students' mastery of English, thereby retarding the learning of other subjects as well. In California, where at least one-third of students were enrolled in bilingual classes in the mid-1990s, there has been considerable politicking for and against bilingual education.\n\nThe very first instance of bilingual education in the United States occurred with Polish immigrants in the first permanent English settlement of Virginia in what is now the United States. The Poles provided the community with manufactured pitch necessary to prevent the sinking of ships, and glass works among other industries. When the House of Burgesses met in 1619, the rights extended only to Englishmen. The Poles, in turn, launched the first recorded strike in the New World. In dire need of their skills and industries, the Poles received the \"rights of Englishmen,\" and established the first bilingual schools with subjects taught in English and Polish. From this first documented historic beginning, bilingual education existed in some form or another in the United States. During the 18th century, Franciscan missionaries from California to Texas used indigenous languages for translating and teaching the Catholic catechism to Native Americans. By the mid-19th century, private and public bilingual schools had include such native languages as Czech, Dutch, French, German, Norwegian, Spanish, and Swedish. Ohio became the first state in 1839, to adopt a bilingual education law, authorizing German-English instruction at parents' request. Louisiana enacted an identical provision for French and English in 1847, and the New Mexico Territory did so for Spanish and English in 1850. By the end of the 19th century, about a dozen states had passed similar laws. Elsewhere, many localities provided bilingual instruction without state sanction, in languages as diverse as Norwegian, Italian, Polish, Czech, and Cherokee. Beginning in 1959, public schools in Miami introduced bilingual programs. In 1968 the U.S., with Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, or, informally, the Bilingual Education Act, Congress first mandated bilingual education in order to give immigrants access to education in their \"first\" language. The Act was amended in 1988. Federal spending on bilingual education jumped from $7.5 million in 1968 to $150 million by 1979.\n\nA 1974 U.S. Supreme Court ruling, \"Lau v. Nichols\", gave further momentum to bilingual education. Here, the Court held that San Francisco schools violated minority language students' rights when they educated students in the same classes as other students without special provisions.\n\nTaken together, the Bilingual Education Act and the \"Lau v. Nichols\" ruling mandated that schools needed to at least provide some type of services to support English language learners, though neither specified what type of educational program needed to be provided. As such, both bilingual and English-only programs flourished after the law's passage and the court ruling.\n\nThe Bilingual Education Act was terminated in 2001 by new federal education policy, with the passage of No Child Left Behind by the U.S. Congress. This law offers no support for native language learning, but rather emphasized accountability in English only, and mandates that all students, including ELLs, are tested yearly in English.\n\nThe majority of U.S. high school students in the United States are required to take at least one to two years of a second language. The vast majority of these classes are either French or Spanish. In a large number of schools this is taught in a manner known as FLES, in which students learn about the second language in a manner similar to other subjects such as mathematics or science. Some schools use an additional method known as FLEX in which the \"nature of the language\" and culture are also taught. High school education almost never uses \"immersion\" techniques.\n\nIn recent times there has been a lot of discussion about bilingual education. In the 2009 U.S. Supreme Court decision, Horne v. Flores, the majority opinion stated, \"Research on ELL instruction indicates there is documented, academic support for the view that SEI (Structured English Immersion) is significantly more effective than bilingual education.\"\n\nProponents of bilingual education claim that it is not only easier for students to learn English if they are literate in their first language, but that such students will learn English better and become bilingual and biliterate. One study shows that English language learners introduced to a transitional bilingual program gained a fair amount of English comprehension and reading skills. Proponents further claim that effective bilingual programs strive to achieve proficiency in both English and the students' home language. Dual language or Two-Way bilingual programs are one such approach, whereby half of the students speak English and half are considered English language learners (ELLs). The teacher instructs in English and in the ELLs' home language. The dual purpose of this type of classroom is to teach the children a new language and culture, and language diversity in such classrooms is seen as a resource. Programs in English only eradicate the native languages immigrants bring to this country, while dual language bilingual programs serve to maintain such languages in an \"additive\" context, where a new language is added without the first being lost. One paper states that two-way developmental bilingual education programs in elementary school have the most success in language minority students' long term academic achievement. These students will maintain their gains in academic performance in secondary level academic classes. Another study shows the positive results of a two-way bilingual education program. Another study suggests that the transitional bilingual education method can improve development of the native language without hindering the development of the English language.\nSome mistakenly believe that once a student can converse in English (Basic interpersonal communication skills - BICS), they will naturally perform well academically (cognitive academic language proficiency - CALP) in English. It has been postulated that BICS and CALP are two different sets of skills.\n\nOpponents of bilingual education claim that students with other primary languages besides Spanish are placed in Spanish classes rather than taught in their native languages and that many bilingual education programs fail to teach students English. Critics of bilingual education have claimed that studies supporting bilingual education tend to have poor methodologies and that there is little empirical support in favor of it.\n\nThe controversy over bilingual education is often enmeshed in a larger political and cultural context. Opponents of bilingual education are sometimes accused of racism and xenophobia. This is especially so in the case of such groups as English First, which is a conservative organization that promotes the stance that English should be the official language of the United States. In Milwaukee, Wisconsin and other cities, Minister of education of the Young Lords, Tony Baez and others held marches and other activities to promote bilingual education. Proponents of bilingual education are frequently accused of practicing identity politics, to the detriment of children and of immigrants.\n\nCalifornia is the state with the highest number of English Learners (ELs) in the United States. One out of three students in California is an EL. In June 1998, Proposition 227 was passed by 61% of the California electorate. This proposition mandates that ELs be placed in structured English immersion for a period \"not normally to exceed one year,\" then be transferred to mainstream classrooms taught \"overwhelmingly in English.\" This proposition also gave parents the possibility to request alternative programs for their children, however, the availability of waivers and information to parents have been a challenge in the implementation of this proposition.\n\nIn 2000, the California Department of Education contracted with the American Institutes for Research (AIR) and WestEd to conduct a five-year evaluation of the effects of Proposition 227. The study methodology focused on \"A combination of student achievement analysis, phone interviews, case study site visits, and written surveys was used to examine such questions as how the proposition was implemented, which EL services are most and least effective, and what unintended consequences resulted from Proposition 227's implementation.\"\n\nThe authors caution about the limitations in the statewide data. California does not have the capacity to link student academic progress over time across years; however, using student-level linked data over time from the Los Angeles Unified School District, and complementing that analysis with surveys, site visits and interviews, the study found \"no conclusive evidence favoring one instructional program over another.\" Students who remained in bilingual education have similar academic growth trajectories when compared with students who switched to English Immersion.\n\nCalifornia, among other states, also has many public schools which have Immersion programs, most commonly Spanish/English Immersion but also including other languages. Immersion programs include native speakers of both languages and include instruction in both languages, with primary (grade) schools typically having 90% instruction in the minority language in the early grades, transitioning to 50% instruction in each of the minority language and English in the upper grades.\n\nProposition 227 has been repealed in 2016 by California Proposition 58 (2016).\n\nCalifornia was followed by Arizona in the passage of similar legislation, Arizona Proposition 203, which ended several programs previously available to ESL students. Arizona was the first state to provide bilingual education in the 1960s.\n\nDuring the 1990s the state of Georgia increased its foreign born population by 233%. That was the second largest increase in the country, and Georgia is the sixth fastest growing state in the United States. Georgia has the seventh largest illegal immigrant population in the country; in the 2000 census 228,000 illegal immigrants lived in the state. During the 1980s and 1990s a labor shortage in the carpet industry contributed to an increase in the Hispanic population of Whitfield County, Georgia. Today almost half of the students in the Dalton (the hub of Whitfield County) public schools are Hispanic.\n\nErwin Mitchell, a local Dalton lawyer, founded the Georgia Project in 1996 to help teach the influx of Hispanic students who have moved into the Dalton public schools. The Georgia Project partners with the University of Monterrey in Monterrey, Mexico to bring teachers from Mexico to Georgia Schools. Sixty teachers from the University of Monterrey have taught in Georgia since 1997, and they typically teach for two to three years on H-1B visas. The Georgia Project also has a Summer Institute that trains American teachers to speak Spanish and learn about Mexican culture. The Georgia Project is a bilingual/bicultural program that is primarily funded from federal education appropriations.\n\nFollowing similar First Nations' models to Canada, academic linguists throughout the United States are working closely with Native American reservations communities to establish immersion and second-language programs for a number of respective tribal languages including Navajo, Hopi, Cherokee, Ojibwe, Lakhota, and Sioux, among others. Due to the combination of often a violent and isolative relationship between European settlers and Native Americans, their languages and communities have suffered dramatically in terms of facing extreme endangerment or extinction. The success of these programmes is mixed, depending largely on how healthy the status of the language in question is.\n\nHowever, English-medium education still remains most widely used. Native programs often suffer a lack of state support in terms of funding or encouragement due in large part to the strong preference towards a melting-pot society. Native American boarding schools, which enforced white American values and the English language were extensively used as late as the 1990s, and were notorious for implementing corporal punishment if a Native child was caught speaking his or her language or freely practicing their tribal faith.\n\nThere are many English-Spanish schools in Argentina. Several of them are in the provinces where the Irish who were part of the local Elite used to live. While medium to big sized cities are likely to have several bilingual schools, bilingual education remains an exception rather than the norm and is generally reserved for the upper classes. There is not a nationally encompassing bilingual program available for public schools. Because of the ties that have historically bound private education to religious institutions, many of the bilingual schools in the country are Roman Catholic schools. For example, out of the three available bilingual schools in a medium-sized city such as Mar del Plata, two of them (Holy Mary of Northern Hills and Holy Trinity College) are practicing Roman Catholic schools. \n\nContinuing to foster the abilities of children's mother tongue along with other languages has proven essential for their personal and educational development because they retain their cultural identity and gain a deeper understanding of language. Two 2016 studies of mother-tongue instruction in Ethiopia and Kenya respectively show that it had positive outcomes for the students in both countries.\n\n\nThomas, W.P., & Collier, V.P. (1997). Two languages are better than one. Educational Leadership, 55(4), 23-26.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854625", "title": "Brevet (military)", "text": "Brevet (military)\n\nIn many of the world's military establishments, a brevet ( or ) was a warrant giving a commissioned officer a higher rank title as a reward for gallantry or meritorious conduct but without conferring the authority, precedence, or pay of real rank. An officer so promoted was referred to as being brevetted (for example, \"\"he was brevetted major general\"). The promotion would be noted in the officer's title (for example, \"Bvt. Maj. Gen. Joshua L. Chamberlain\" or \"Bvt. Col. Arthur MacArthur\"\").\n\nIt is not to be confused with a \"brevet\" in Francophone European military circles, where it is an award, nor should it be confused with temporary commissions.\n\nIn France, a \"brevet\" is a very broad-meaning word which includes every document giving a capacity to a person. For instance, the various military speciality courses, such as military parachutism, are ended by the award of a brevet.\n\nThe more important brevet in the French military is the one of the École de guerre, the French Staff College. Between 1870 and 1940, an \"officier breveté\" was a graduate of the \"École supérieure de guerre\". Nowadays, while many officers still attend the école de guerre, they do not use the term \"officier breveté\".\n\nThe French military does not use brevets to give officers a higher standing. It uses instead temporary commissions. As an example, Charles de Gaulle was promoted \"provisional brigadier general\" (\"général de brigade à titre provisoire\") in 1940 when he was .\n\nIn the Prussian and German army and navy, it was possible to bestow a \"Charakter\" rank on officers that was in many respects similar to a brevet rank. For example, an \"Oberst\" could receive the \"Charakter als Generalmajor\". Very often, German officers would be promoted to the next higher \"Charakter\" rank on the day of their retirement.\nIt was not uncommon during the 19th century to distinguish between \"empleo\" (\"employed\") rank and \"graduación\" (\"grade\") being the effective command position. In the 1884 rank regulations (which with minor modifications were in force during the Spanish–American War) stars marked the rank whilst the actual post was reflected in gold lace on the cuffs.\n\nAs in practice both situations coincided the system was dropped in 1908 leaving only the starred system of denoting rank. Nevertheless, during the Spanish Civil War the system was revived in the Nationalist side due to the lack of trained officers because of the enlargement of the army. The breveted officers (known as \"habilitados\" or \"estampillados\") wore their actual rank on the cuffs but their brevetted one in a rectangular black patch on the left breast of their coats or shirts.\nIn the United Kingdom the brevet commission was only by courtesy. Officially, both titles were used, as: \"Major and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Cornwallis\". Originally the term designated a promotion given on such occasions as a coronation, or the termination of a great war, and had its origin during the reign of King James II (1685–1688); but it was abused so frequently and used to such an extent by the general award of brevet commissions that from 1854, during the Crimean War of 1853-1856 and subsequently, its bestowal was limited strictly to cases of very distinguished service in the field and on the principle of seniority. The British Army confined brevet commissions to ranks from captain to lieutenant-colonel.\n\nThe brevet conferred rank in the British Army overall, but importantly, not in the regiment. Advancement in the regiment could take place generally only by purchase (until 1871) or by seniority, and when there was a suitable vacancy (caused by the death, retirement or promotion of a more senior officer). For an officer on duty with his regiment, only regimental rank counted; if the regiment formed part of a larger formation then brevet rank could be used to determine command of temporary units formed for special purposes. In particular brigadier did not become a permanent rank until 1947, so command of brigades was determined by seniority, including by the date of promotion to any brevet rank. Thus it was possible for a regimental major to hold a brevet lieutenant-colonelcy with seniority over the commission of his own commanding officer as lieutenant-colonel and be given command of a brigade (potentially including his own regiment). Similarly, while the officer served in a staff position or as an aide-de-camp, then he could use his brevet rank. Appointment to a brevet also counted towards the requirement to have served for a sufficient time in a lower rank to be eligible for promotion (by purchase) to a more senior one.\n\nThe Articles of War adopted by the United States Army in 1776 and slightly revised in 1806 established the use and significance of brevet ranks or awards in the U.S. Army. When first used, a brevet commission in the U.S. Army entitled the officer to be identified by a higher rank, but the award had limited effect on the right to higher command or pay. A brevet rank had no effect within the officer's current unit, but, when assigned duty at the brevet rank by the U.S. President, such an officer would command with the brevet rank and be paid at the higher rank. This higher command and pay would last only for the duration of that assignment. The brevet promotion would not affect the officer's seniority and actual permanent rank in the army. Beginning on April 16, 1818, brevet commissions also required confirmation by the United States Senate, just as all other varieties of officer commissions did.\n\nBrevets were first used in the U.S. Army during the American Revolutionary War. Often, the nation's Continental Congress could not find suitable positions for foreign officers—mostly from France—who sought commissions. The first U.S. brevet was given to Jacques Antoine de Franchessin on July 20, 1776, allowing him to hold the rank of lieutenant colonel within the Continental Army. Franchessin and another 35 men of foreign birth would hold brevet commissions in the army by the end of the war. By 1784, an additional 50 officers would receive brevets for \"meritorious services\" during the conflict.\n\nIn the 19th-century U.S. Army, brevet promotions were quite common because the army had many frontier forts to garrison and other missions to perform but could not always appoint appropriately ranked officers to command these forts or missions. The U.S. Congress permitted only a limited number of officers of each rank. Thus, an officer of lower rank might receive a brevet commission to a rank more appropriate for his assignment. Also, newly commissioned officers often received brevet rank until authorized positions became available. For example, an officer might graduate from West Point and be appointed a brevet second lieutenant until a permanent second lieutenant posting opened up. In early 1861, some recent graduates of West Point temporarily were named brevet second lieutenants because not enough Regular Army officer vacancies were available to give them commissions as regular second lieutenants. In addition to officers being appointed to a brevet rank to temporarily serve in positions designated for higher-ranked officers (i.e., in lieu of promotion to permanent rank), officers might be awarded brevet rank as recognition for gallantry or meritorious service.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, almost all senior officers received some form of brevet award, mainly during the final months of the war. These awards were made for gallantry or meritorious service, rather than for command. In addition to the authorization in a previous law for awards of brevet ranks to Regular Army officers, an act of Congress of March 3, 1863, authorized the award of brevet rank to officers of the United States Volunteers. Thus, brevet awards became increasingly common later in the war. Some officers even received more than one award. Because of the existence of both Regular Army and United States Volunteers ranks, and the possibility that an officer could hold actual and brevet ranks in both services, some general and other officers could hold as many as four different ranks simultaneously. For example, by the end of the war, Ranald S. Mackenzie was a brevet major general of volunteers, an actual, full-rank brigadier general of volunteers, a brevet brigadier general in the United States Regular Army, and an actual Regular Army captain.\n\nBrevet rank in the Union Army, whether in the Regular Army or the United States Volunteers, during and at the conclusion of the American Civil War, may be regarded as an honorary title which conferred none of the authority, precedence, nor pay of real or full rank. The vast majority of the Union Army brevet ranks were awarded posthumously or on or as of March 13, 1865, as the war was coming to a close. U.S. Army regulations concerning brevet rank provided that brevet rank could be claimed \"in courts-martial and on detachments, when composed of different corps\" and when the officer served with provisional formations made up of different regiments or companies, or \"on other occasions.\" These regulations were vague enough to support the positions of some brevet generals who caused controversies by claiming supposed priorities or privileges of brevet ranks that had been awarded to them at earlier dates during the war.\n\nSome full-rank brigadier generals in the United States Volunteers (USV) in the American Civil War had been awarded brevet brigadier general rank in the USV before receiving full-rank promotions to brigadier general of United States Volunteers. Some full-rank brigadier generals in the USV were awarded the rank of brevet major general in the USV, but were not promoted to full-rank major generals in the USV. Some United States Regular Army officers who served with the USV in ranks below general officer were awarded brevet general officer rank in the USV, but were not promoted to full-rank general officers in the USV. On the other hand, at least a few USV general officers also were awarded brevet general officer rank in the Regular Army in addition to their full-rank appointments or brevet general officer awards in the United States Volunteers. Many of the Regular Army officers of lower rank who became full-rank USV generals, however, received neither actual promotions to a general officer rank nor brevet general officer awards in the Regular Army in addition to their USV ranks or awards. Some of them who stayed in the United States Regular Army after the war did achieve general officer rank in later years.\n\nIn addition to the brevet awards to current (or future) full-rank United States Volunteers (USV) generals during the American Civil War, 1,367 other USV officers of lower ranks were awarded the rank of brevet brigadier general, brevet major general, or both, in the United States Volunteers, but not promoted to full-rank USV generals. At least one enlisted man, Private Frederick W. Stowe, was brevetted as a second lieutenant in the Union Army during the Civil War.\n\nThe Confederate States of America had legislation and regulations for the use of brevets in their armed forces, provided by Article 61 of the nation's Articles of War, and by their 1861 \"Army Regulations\", which were based on the U.S. Army's 1857 version of their regulations. Although Article 61 was revised in 1862, it ultimately had no practical effect since the Confederate States Army did not use any brevet commissions or awards during its existence.\n\nThe United States Marine Corps also issued brevets. After officers became eligible for the Medal of Honor, a rare Marine Corps Brevet Medal was issued to living officers who had been brevetted between 1861 and 1915.\n\nThe practice of brevetting disappeared from the (regular) U.S. military at the end of the 19th century; honors were bestowed instead with a series of medals. Brevetting was declared obsolete in 1922. However, the similar practice of frocking continues in four of the five branches of the U.S. armed forces. The U.S. Air Force does not allow the regular practice of frocking before a promotion date, except in rare circumstances, such as when an officer selected for promotion is assigned to a billet (typically a senior joint duty assignment), that requires him or her to hold/wear the higher rank to which he/she is expected to be promoted. Frocking typically requires special approval to be obtained from the service headquarters.\n\nThe promotion of an enlisted person or non-commissioned officer to commissioned officer rank as a reward for displaying leadership and bravery is referred to as a direct appointment rather than a brevet. It temporarily grants the rank of 1st lieutenant. The holder must then attend Officer Candidate School in order to keep the commission. They must also have or acquire a four-year college degree if they wish to be promoted to the rank of captain or above.\n\nThe U.S. National Guard, which depends on the governor of a state to concede its commissions in the Army National Guard and Air National Guard, may still confer brevets. Many states maintain a clause permitting the governor to confer any rank in its defense forces, including the militia and National Guards. Some states provide that the sitting governor may confer any rank, but this appointment is considered valid only for the duration of the governor's own term in office.\n\nSome states also confer brevets as part of their regular honors system. Georgia confers honorary ranks into its state police force. Kentucky is famous for its colonels, and so too is Tennessee, both of which make the appointment as an honorary member of the governor's staff. Alabama, Kentucky, Texas and Nebraska also confer an admiralty within a symbolic navy. Similar honors have been issued for the Georgia Naval Militia, which has existed only on paper since 1908. In all cases these honorary titles may be considered effective brevets, equal to that of the National Guard, by being conferred by a sitting governor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40484", "title": "Bullshit", "text": "Bullshit\n\nBullshit (also bullcrap) is a common English expletive which may be shortened to the euphemism bull or the initialism BS. In British English, \"bollocks\" is a comparable expletive. It is mostly a slang profanity term meaning \"nonsense\", especially as a rebuke in response to communication or actions viewed as deceptive, misleading, disingenuous, unfair or false. As with many expletives, the term can be used as an interjection, or as many other parts of speech, and can carry a wide variety of meanings. A person who communicates nonsense on a given subject may be referred to as a \"bullshit artist\".\n\nIn philosophy and psychology of cognition the term \"bullshit\" is sometimes used to specifically refer to statements produced without particular concern of truth, to distinguish from a deliberate, manipulative lie intended to subvert the truth. \n\nWhile the word is generally used in a deprecatory sense, it may imply a measure of respect for language skills or frivolity, among various other benign usages. In [[philosophy]], [[Harry Frankfurt]], among others, analyzed the concept of \"bullshit\" as related to, but distinct from, lying.\n\nAs an exclamation, \"Bullshit!\" conveys a measure of dissatisfaction with something or someone, but this usage need not be a comment on the [[truth]] of the matter.\n\n\"Bull\", meaning nonsense, dates from the 17th century, while the term \"bullshit\" has been used as early as 1915 in British and American [[slang]], and came into popular usage only during [[World War II]]. The word \"bull\" itself may have derived from the [[Old French]] \"bole\" meaning \"fraud, deceit\". The term \"horseshit\" is a near synonym. An occasionally used [[South African English]] equivalent is \"bull dust\".\n\nThe earliest attestation mentioned by the \"Concise Oxford English Dictionary\" is in fact [[T. S. Eliot]], who between 1910 and 1916 wrote an early poem to which he gave the title \"The Triumph of Bullshit\", written in the form of a [[ballade (forme fixe)|ballade]]. The word bullshit does not appear in the text of the poem, and Eliot himself never published the poem.\n\nAs to earlier etymology the \"[[Oxford English Dictionary]]\" cites \"bull\" with the meaning \"trivial, insincere, untruthful talk or writing, nonsense\". It describes this usage as being of unknown origin, but notes that in [[Old French]], the word could mean \"boul, boule, bole fraud, deceit, trickery; [[Icelandic language|mod. Icel]] bull 'nonsense'; also [[Middle English|ME]] bull BUL 'falsehood', and BULL verb, to befool, mock, cheat.\"\n\nAlthough there is no confirmed etymological connection, these older meanings are synonymous with the modern expression \"bull\", generally considered and used as a contraction of \"bullshit\".\n\nAnother proposal, according to the lexicographer Eric Partridge, is that the term was popularized by the Australian and New Zealand troops from about 1916 arriving at the front during World War I. Partridge claims that the British commanding officers placed emphasis on \"bull\"; that is, attention to appearances, even when it was a hindrance to waging war. The foreign Diggers allegedly ridiculed the British by calling it bullshit.\n\n\"Bullshit\" is commonly used to describe statements made by people more concerned with the response of the audience than in truth and accuracy, such as goal-oriented statements made in the field of politics or advertising. On one prominent occasion, the word itself was part of a controversial advertisement. During the [[United States presidential election, 1980|1980 U.S. presidential campaign]], the [[Citizens Party (United States)|Citizens Party]] candidate [[Barry Commoner]] ran a radio advertisement that began with an actor exclaiming: \"Bullshit! [[Jimmy Carter|Carter]], [[Ronald Reagan|Reagan]] and [[John B. Anderson|Anderson]], it's all bullshit!\" [[National Broadcasting Company|NBC]] refused to run the advertisement because of its use of the expletive, but Commoner's campaign successfully appealed to the [[Federal Communications Commission]] to allow the advertisement to run unedited.\n\nIn his essay \"[[On Bullshit]]\" (originally written in 1986, and published as a monograph in 2005), philosopher [[Harry Frankfurt]] of [[Princeton University]] characterizes bullshit as a form of falsehood distinct from lying. The liar, Frankfurt holds, knows and cares about the truth, but deliberately sets out to mislead instead of telling the truth. The \"bullshitter\", on the other hand, does not care about the truth and is only seeking to impress:\n\nFrankfurt connects this analysis of bullshit with [[Ludwig Wittgenstein]]'s disdain of \"non-sense\" talk, and with the popular concept of a \"bull session\" in which speakers may try out unusual views without commitment. He fixes the blame for the prevalence of \"bullshit\" in modern society upon [[anti-realism]] and upon the growing frequency of situations in which people are expected to speak or have opinions without appropriate knowledge of the subject matter.\n\nSeveral political commentators have seen that Frankfurt's concept of bullshit provides insights into political campaigns. [[Gerald Cohen]], in \"Deeper into Bullshit\", contrasted the kind of \"bullshit\" Frankfurt describes with a different sort: nonsense discourse presented as sense. Cohen points out that this sort of bullshit can be produced either accidentally or deliberately. While some writers do deliberately produce bullshit, a person can also aim at sense and produce nonsense by mistake; or a person deceived by a piece of bullshit can repeat it innocently, without intent to deceive others.\n\nCohen gives the example of [[Alan Sokal]]'s [[Sokal Affair|\"Transgressing the Boundaries\"]] as a piece of \"deliberate\" bullshit. Sokal's aim in creating it, however, was to show that the \"postmodernist\" editors who accepted his paper for publication could not distinguish nonsense from sense, and thereby by implication that their field was \"bullshit\".\n\nOutside of the [[academia|academic]] world, among [[natural language|natural]] speakers of [[North American English]], as an [[interjection]] or [[adjective]], \"bullshit\" conveys general displeasure, an objection to, or points to unfairness within, some state of affairs. This [[colloquial]] usage of \"bullshit\", which began in the 20th century, designates another's discourse to be rubbish or nonsense.\n\nPublicly formulated the first time in January 2013 by Alberto Brandolini, an Italian programmer, the bullshit asymmetry principle (also known as Brandolini's law) states that:\nThe amount of energy needed to refute bullshit is an order of magnitude bigger than to produce it.\nIt became especially popular after a picture of a presentation by Brandolini at XP2014 on May 30, 2014, was posted on [[Twitter]]. Brandolini was inspired by reading [[Daniel Kahneman]]'s \"[[Thinking, Fast and Slow]]\" right before watching an Italian political talk show with journalist [[Marco Travaglio]] and former Prime Minister [[Silvio Berlusconi]] attacking each other. A similar concept, the \"mountain of shit theory\", was formulated by the Italian blogger Uriel Fanelli in 2010, roughly stating the same sentence.\n\nBrandolini's law emphasizes the difficulty of debunking bullshit. In contrast, the faster propagation of bullshit is an old proverb: \"a lie is halfway round the world before the truth has got its boots on\".\n\n\n\n[[Category:Profanity]]\n[[Category:Feces]]\n[[Category:Interjections]]\n[[Category:Deception]]"}
{"id": "1168184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168184", "title": "Confessional writing", "text": "Confessional writing\n\nIn literature, confessional writing is a first-person style that is often presented as an ongoing diary or letters, distinguished by revelations of a person's deeper or darker motivations.\n\nOriginally, the term derived from confession: The writer is not only autobiographically recounting his life, but confessing to his sins. Among the earlier examples is St. Augustine's \"Confessions\", perhaps the first autobiography of Western Europe. In it, he not only recounted the events of his life, he wrestled with their meaning and significance, as in a passage where he tried to fathom why he had stolen pears with friends, not to eat but to throw away.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau turned it to a secular purpose in his \"Confessions\".\n\nFrom this meaning evolved the meaning of writing that reveals more of the writer's motivations, particularly the darker reactions, and the events that are normally kept secret.\n\nFictionally, the confessional story is a story written, in the first person, about emotionally fraught and morally charged situations in which a fictional character is caught. These stories may be anything from thinly veiled recounting of the writer's life to completely fictional works.\n\nWith the advent of the magazine \"True Story\" in 1919 and the imitations of it, the confessional (or romance) magazine was created, containing such stories. Such confessions magazines were chiefly aimed at an audience of working-class women. Their formula has been characterized as \"sin-suffer-repent\": The heroine violates standards of behavior, suffers as a consequence, learns her lesson and resolves to live in light of it, not embittered by her pain.\n\n"}
{"id": "12412793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12412793", "title": "Days on market", "text": "Days on market\n\nDays on market (DOM, alternatively active days on market, market time, or time on market) is a measurement of the age of a real estate listing. The statistic is defined as the total number of days the listing is on the active market before either an offer is accepted or the agreement between real estate broker and seller ends.\n\nGenerally, properties with a large DOM value will command lower prices than properties with few DOM because a perception exists that the property may be overpriced or less desirable. DOM often factors into developing a pricing strategy. DOM can also be used as a \"thermometer\" to gauge the temperature of a housing market.\n\nThe other use for this statistic is allowing prospective home sellers an idea of how long it may take to sell a property. The MLS is controlled by the real estate industry and has been the subject of many lawsuits.\n\nThis value is not necessarily how long the house has been on the market due to intricacies within the multiple listing service (MLS) database. Depending on the rules of the MLS that is being used, the number is reset if a seller switches real estate agents. Sometimes there is also the arguably unethical practice of \"withdrawing\" the listing before it expires and adding the listing again to reset the DOM. As a result, when this statistic is used it is often lower than the true value. However, savvy real estate agents (if the MLS allows) will research the property's listing history and can tell more effectively how long the property has been on the market.\n\nDays on the Market- MLS (DOM-M or DOMM) is the number of days this exact Multiple Listing Service (MLS) listing has been on the market.\n\nDays on the Market- Property (DOM-P or DOMP) is the number of days the property has been for sale regardless of the number of different Realtors.\n\nPrior to the historic housing bubble that formed in or around 2001 due to loose credit and irrational exuberance, the term DOMP was practically a mystery to anyone other than real estate industry insiders.\n\nWhen the Housing Bubble began to rapidly deflate in late 2005, the inventory of homes for sale exploded, which caused both sales and prices to fall well below levels predicted by leading economists. These economists were frequently separated into varying levels of respect depending on their affiliation with the REIC, because the National Association of Realtors (NAR) economists were caught giving incorrect predictions about the state of the housing market despite what was actually happening in many U.S cities.\n\nTo prop up rapidly falling sales, real estate agents across the country began to rely on the process of manipulating the amount of time that homes had been on the market more than ever to attract buyers and maintain sales prices. There were great disparities concerning the practice in the various regional MLS's across the country. Some MLS's charged real estate agents to alter the statistics, and referred to the practice as \"refreshing a listing.\" In general however, the old guard of the real estate industry considered the practice as deceptive at best, and fraudulent at worst. Rumors of possible lawsuits circulated in the industry because homes that had been on the market for long periods of time were considered to be overpriced and thus not worth their advertised sales prices. The practice also stood in dark contrast to the National Association of Realtor's Code of Ethics that prohibits doing anything that is deceptive to buyers.\n\nSometimes a property might be 83 days with one Realtor, and then 10 days with another. That would show up as: DOMP/DOMM= 93/10. Some realtors will try to fudge this data to make a listing look brand new.\n\nThis business practice is still being carried out by the REIC and is a point of contention with bloggers calling it \"deceptive\". Others maintain it is a way to acquire the attention of new customers, akin to a store moving its inventory from one location to another. MLS information like days on the market, the selling price and who were the buying agents or buyers is not available in Canada to any-one but REALTORS.\n"}
{"id": "50407327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50407327", "title": "Dhwanil Parekh", "text": "Dhwanil Parekh\n\nDhwanil Parekh (b. 28 October 1976 ) is a Gujarati language poet, critic and playwright from Gujarat, India. His significant works includes \"Dariyo Bhalene Maane\" (2008; Ghazal anthology), \"Antim Yuddha\" (2009; drama) and \"Sanket\" (2011; critical works). He won Yuva Puraskar of Sahitya Akademi, New Delhi for his work \"Antim Yuddha\" in 2011. He is also a recipient of Yuva Gaurav Puraskar of 2008 instituted by Gujarat Sahitya Akademi.\n\nParekh was born in Surat, Gujarat. His parents are Pushpa and Ravindra (a poet and writer). He completed his primary education in Surat. He completed his Std. 10 in 1992 from Kadiwala High School, Surat and Std. 12 in 1994 from Proprietary English School, Surat. He got his Bachelor of Arts in 1997 from J.Z Shah Arts and H.P Desai Commerce College, Amroli and Master of Arts in 1999 from M.T.B Arts College, Surat in Gujarati literature. In 2005, he earned a Ph.D for his research \"Natakma Myth : Bharatiya Bhashaoma Lakhayela Mahabharat Aadharit Natakono Alochanatmak Abhyas\" (A critical study of Indian dramas based on Mahabharata) from South Gujarat University.\n\nParekh started his career as a journalist and served as reporter at different media including \"Navgujarat Times\", \"Pratinidhi Patra\" and \"Channel Surat\". In 2001, he joined M.T.B Arts College, Surat as a junior research fellow and continued there untll 2002. From 2002 to 2006, he served as an assistant lecturer at Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Open University. He served as an assistant lecturer at M.S University from June 2006 to November 2006. In 2006, he became an assistant lecturer at M.D Gramseva Mahavidyalay, Sadra. He started to write poems in 1992 and got published for first time in \"Gujarat\" magazine.\n\n\"Ajavalu Suratnu\", his first ghazal anthology with other 3 poets, was published in 2003, followed by \"Dariyo Bhalene Maane\" (2008). His first critical works \"Sakshibhav\" was published in 2007, followed by \"Natakma Myth\" (2007), \"Satvikam\" (2010) and \"Sanket\" (2011; The Sign). \"Antim Yuddha\" (2009; The Ultimate War) is a drama play written by him.\n\nGujarat Sahitya Akademi awarded him Yuva Gaurav Puraskar in 2008 for his contribution in Gujarati literature. He won Yuva Puraskar of 2011 instituted by Sahitya Akademi, New Delhi for \"Antim Yuddha\", also awarded by Mahendra Bhagat Prize (2008–09) of Gujarati Sahitya Parishad. He received Batubhai Umarvadiya Prize (2004) for \"Bolpen Nu Kholu' (one act play) and Yashwant Pandya Prize (2005) for Shaap (one act play).\" His critical work \"Natakma Myth\" was awarded by Ramanlal Joshi Prize and his ghazal anthology \"Dariyo Bhalene Maane\" was awarded the Manharlal Chokshi Prize\".\"\n\nParekh married Nayna on 8 February 2003 and they have a son, Dhyan.\n\n"}
{"id": "248295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248295", "title": "Division (sport)", "text": "Division (sport)\n\nIn sports, a division is a group of teams who compete against each other for a championship.\n\nIn sports using a league system (also known as a pyramid structure), a division consists of a group of teams who play a sport at a similar competitive level. Teams can move up to a higher division of play or drop down to a lower one via the process of promotion and relegation, based on their performance in the standings at the end of the season. The existence of divisions based on level of competition ensures that teams at one competitive level can play other teams at a similar competitive level, thus creating parity and more exciting matches.\n\nIn North America, where sports usually operate on a franchise system rather than a league system, a division is a group of teams within a league which is organized along geographical lines rather than competitive success. Teams based in cities that are in a particular region of the continent are grouped together in the same division. For instance, in Major League Baseball, both the American and National Leagues have East, Central, and West divisions; the teams in each division are mostly (but not always) located in the eastern, central, and western sections of North America respectively. In a franchise system, teams are not promoted or relegated as are teams in a league system. All teams in the league (and by extension, the divisions of the league) are at the same competitive level and remain so year after year.\n\nNorth American professional sports leagues often construct their season schedules in a way such that teams in a division play matches against each other more often than other teams in the league. This not only has the effect of reducing travel costs, but also creates exciting rivalries between the teams in the division. Moreover, the top teams in a division qualify for the postseason playoff tournament that crowns the league champion, which heightens the rivalries between the teams in a division.\n\nGeographically-based divisions can become skewed if an expansion team joins the league or if one of the franchises within a division moves to another city, necessitating a shuffling or realignment of the teams in a division. Furthermore, the results of the realignment may not always reflect geographical realities. For instance, in 1995, the Los Angeles Rams of the National Football League (NFL) moved to St Louis, Missouri and became the St Louis Rams. The team retained its place in the NFC West division despite the fact that St. Louis is further east than Dallas, Texas, home of the Dallas Cowboys. Although Dallas is located in the south-central United States, the Cowboys are a member of the NFC East division due to their long-standing rivalries with the New York Giants, Philadelphia Eagles, and Washington Redskins, all of whom are located on the Eastern seaboard.\n\nIn U.S. college sports, a \"division\" has a meaning different from either sense listed above, although somewhat closer to that of the league system.\n\nThe major governing bodies for college sports, the NCAA and NAIA, divide their member schools into large competitive groups. These groups are much larger than divisions in either the league or franchise system—for example, the NCAA's highest competitive level, Division I, has more than 300 member schools. The vast majority of teams are members of conferences, smaller groupings that usually have between 6 and 14 members. Conference champions, plus selected other teams, compete in national championship tournaments (with the exception of schools in the highest level of NCAA (American) football, which have never had an NCAA-recognized national championship).\n\nAs an example, the NCAA is split into three divisions:\n\n\nThe term \"division\" is also used in US college sports to indicate the groupings of members of a given conference. However, this usage is more recent. The first conference to divide its teams into divisions was the Southeastern Conference which, upon expanding to 12 members in 1992, divided into Eastern and Western divisions. Other conferences have undergone similar expansion and division. The usage in the section above is still maintained. For example, the Georgia Bulldogs are in Division I, but are also in the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "31253847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31253847", "title": "Dragomir R. Radev", "text": "Dragomir R. Radev\n\nDragomir R. Radev is a Yale University professor of computer science working on natural language processing and information retrieval. He previously served as a University of Michigan computer science professor and Columbia University computer science adjunct professor. Radev serves as Member of the Advisory Board of Lawyaw.\n\nHe is currently working in the fields of open domain question answering, multi-document summarization, and the application of NLP in Bioinformatics, Social Network Analysis and Political Science.\n\nRadev received his PhD in Computer Science from Columbia University in 1999. He is the secretary of (2006–present) and associate editor of JAIR.\n\nAs NACLO founder, Radev shared the Linguistic Society of America 2011 \"Linguistics, Language and the Public Award\". He is the Co-winner of the Gosnell Prize (2006).\n\nIn 2015 he was named a fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery \"for contributions to natural language processing and computational linguistics.\"\n\nRadev has served as the coach and led the US national team in the International Linguistics Olympiad (IOL) to several gold medals .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28037920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28037920", "title": "Elementary function arithmetic", "text": "Elementary function arithmetic\n\nIn proof theory, a branch of mathematical logic, elementary function arithmetic, also called EFA, elementary arithmetic and exponential function arithmetic, is the system of arithmetic with the usual elementary properties of 0, 1, +, ×, \"x\", together with induction for formulas with bounded quantifiers.\n\nEFA is a very weak logical system, whose proof theoretic ordinal is ω, but still seems able to prove much of ordinary mathematics that can be stated in the language of first-order arithmetic.\n\nEFA is a system in first order logic (with equality). Its language contains:\n\nBounded quantifiers are those of the form ∀(x<y) and ∃ (x<y) which are abbreviations for ∀ x (x<y)→… and ∃x (x<y)∧… in the usual way.\n\nThe axioms of EFA are\n\nHarvey Friedman's grand conjecture implies that many mathematical theorems, such as Fermat's Last Theorem, can be proved in very weak systems such as EFA.\n\nThe original statement of the conjecture from is:\n\nWhile it is easy to construct artificial arithmetical statements that are true but not provable in EFA, the point of Friedman's conjecture is that natural examples of such statements in mathematics seem to be rare. Some natural examples include consistency statements from logic, several statements related to Ramsey theory such as the Szemerédi regularity lemma and the graph minor theorem, and Tarjan's algorithm for the disjoint-set data structure.\n\nSeveral related computational complexity classes have similar properties to EFA:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2313093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2313093", "title": "Environmental security", "text": "Environmental security\n\nEnvironmental security examines threats posed by environmental events and trends to individuals, communities or nations. It may focus on the impact of human conflict and international relations on the environment, or on how environmental problems cross state borders.\n\nThe Millennium Project assessed definitions of environmental security and created a synthesis definition:\n\nEnvironmental security is environmental viability for life support, with three sub-elements: \n\nIt considers the abilities of individuals, communities or nations to cope with environmental risks, changes or conflicts, or limited natural resources. For example, climate change can be viewed a threat to environmental security. Human activity impacts CO emissions, impacting regional and global climatic and environmental changes and thus changes in agricultural output. This can lead to food shortages which will then cause political debate, ethnic tension, and civil unrest.\n\nEnvironmental security is an important concept in two fields: international relations and international development.\n\nWithin international development, projects may aim to improve aspects of environmental security such as food security or water security, but also connected aspects such as energy security, that are now recognised as Sustainable Development Goals at UN level. Targets for MDG 7 about environmental sustainability show international priorities for environmental security. Target 7B is about the security of fisheries on which many people depend for food. Fisheries are an example of a resource that cannot be contained within state borders. A conflict before the International Court of Justice between Chile and Peru about maritime borders and their associated fisheries is a case study for environmental security.\n\nThe Copenhagen School defines the referent object of environmental security as the environment, or some strategic part of it.\n\nHistorically, the definition of international security has varied over time. After World War II, definitions typically focused on the subject of realpolitik that developed during the Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\nAs tensions between the superpowers eased after the collapse of the Soviet Union, academic discussions of definitions of security significantly expanded to encompass a far broader range of threats to peace, including, particularly, environmental threats associated with the political implications of resource use or pollution. By the mid-1980s, this field of study was becoming known as \"environmental security\". Despite a wide range of semantic and academic debates over terms, it is now widely acknowledged that environmental factors play both direct and indirect roles in both political disputes and violent conflicts.\n\nIn the academic sphere environmental security is defined as the relationship between security concerns such as armed conflict and the natural environment. A small but rapidly developing field, it has become particularly relevant for those studying resource scarcity and conflict in the developing world. Prominent early researchers in the field include Felix Dodds, Norman Myers, Jessica Tuchman Mathews, Michael Renner, Richard Ullman, Arthur Westing, Michael Klare, Thomas Homer Dixon, Geoffrey Dabelko, Peter Gleick, Rita Floyd and Joseph Romm.\n\nAccording to Jon Barnett, environmental security emerged as an important concept in security studies because of some interrelated developments which started in 1960s. The first one was the increasing level of environmental consciousness in so called developed countries. Various occurrences and events triggered the growth of the environmental movement during this period of time. Rachel Carson's well-known book \"Silent Spring\" was one of the extraordinary publications of that time and brought greater degree of environmental awareness among ordinary people by warning them of the dangers to all natural systems including animals and food chain from the misuse of chemical pesticides such as DDT. Whilst Carson undoubtedly contributed to public debate at the time she was arguably not amongst the more radical 'social revolutionaries' who were also urging greater public awareness of environmental issues. Moreover, the number of largest well-known environmental non-governmental organizations such as the World Wildlife Fund (1961), Friends of the Earth (1969), and Greenpeace (1971) were founded during that time.\nThe second notable development which brings the emergence of concept of environmental security was number of scholars started to criticize the traditional notion of security and mainstream security debates in their work from 1970s by emphasizing its inability to handle environmental problems at national and international security level. First commentators were Richard Falk who published 'This Endangered Planet' (1971), and Harold and Margaret Sprout who wrote 'Toward a Politics of Planet Earth' (1971). These two commentators asserted in their book that the notion of security can no longer be centered only on military power, rather nations should collectively take measurements against common environmental problems since they pose threat to national well-being and thus international stability. These main ideas about environmental interdependence between countries and common security threat have remained key themes of environmental security studies. However, not until Richard Ullman publishes an academic article named \"Redefining Security\" (1983), radical departure from the dominant security discourse haven't happened. Ullman offered the following definition of national security threat as \"an action or sequence of events that (1) threatens drastically and over a relatively brief span of time to degrade the quality of life for the inhabitants of a state, or (2) threatens significantly to narrow the range of policy choices available to the government of a state, or to private, nongovernmental entities within the state\". Significant other scientists onward also linked the issue of security by focusing on the role of environmental degradation in causing violent conflict. Others, while recognizing the importance of environmental problems, argued that labeling them 'environmental security' was problematic and abandoned analytical rigor for normative and emotional power.\n\nEven though environmental degradation and climate change sometimes cause war and violent conflict within and between countries and other times not, it can weaken the national security of the state in number of profound ways. Environmental change can undermine the economic prosperity which plays big role in country’s military capacity and material power. In some developed countries, and in most developing countries, natural resources and environmental services tend to be important factors for economic growth and employment rate. Income from and employment in primary sectors such as agriculture, forestry, fishing, and mining, and from environmentally dependent services like torus, may all be adversely affected by environmental change. If natural capital base of an economy erodes, then so does the long-term capacity of its armed forces. Moreover, changes in environmental condition can exposes people to health threats, it can also undermine human capital and its well-being which are essential factors of economic development and stability of human society.\n\nClimate change also could, through extreme weather events, have a more direct impact on national security by damaging critical infrastructures such as military bases, naval yards and training grounds, thereby severely threatening essential national defense resources.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33488368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33488368", "title": "Gunu language", "text": "Gunu language\n\nThe Gunu language (\"Nu Gunu\" or Nugunu) is a Southern Bantoid language of Cameroon.\n"}
{"id": "22619837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22619837", "title": "Harindra Dave", "text": "Harindra Dave\n\nHarindra J Dave (19 September 1930 – 29 March 1995) was a Gujarati poet, journalist, playwright and novelist of the post-independence Gujarati literature.\n\nHe was born on 19 September 1930 in Khambhra village in Kachchh District, Gujarat, India (then Cutch State). He was educated at the Shamaldas Gandhi College, Bhavnagar and later the University of Bombay.\n\nHe authored more than fifty works, including poems, essays, drama and fiction.\n\n\"Aganpankhi\" (1962), \"Madhav Kyayn Nathi\" (1970), \"Krishna ane Manav Sambandho\" (1982), \"Mukhvato\", \"Anagat\", \"Hayati\" (1978), \"Sang-Asang\", \"Lohi no Rang Lal\" (1981), \"Gandhi Ni Kavad\" (1984) are his some works. His work \"Krishna ane Manav Sambandho\" (1982) is a monumental research work on Krishna theme. His novel \"Madhav Kyany Nathi\" was translated into Hindi by Bhanushankar Mehta as \"Madhav Kahin Nahin Hain\" in 1995.\n\n\nHe was a journalist by profession\n\nHe worked as a journalist with \"Janashakti\", a Gujarati daily from 1951 to 1962. He joined Bhavan's as an editor of \"Samarpan\", Gujarati monthly digest. In 1968, he joined USIS and continued till 1973.\n\nIn 1973, he joined \"Janashakti\" as an editor. His writing during the Emergency was notable. After \"Janashakti\", he joined Janmabhoomi Group of Newspapers as an Editor in Chief for '\"Janmabhoomi'\", an evening daily and '\"Pravasi'\", a morning daily and '\"Janambhoomi-Pravasi\", a weekly.\n\nBefore embarking on daily journalism in 1951, Harindrabhai worked with \"Chitrapat\", a film magazine. And during those years with \"Chitrapat\", he came into association with personalities like Shyam, Suraiya, Guru Dutt, Mehbub Khan, Motilal, Mohammad Rafi, Ramanand Sagar etc.\n\nHe received the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1978 for his poetry collection \"Hayati\". He also received the Ranjitram Suvarna Chandrak in 1982, the Kabir Award (from the Madhya Pradesh Government), the Gujarati Sahitya Parishad award and the Goenka award for Journalism.\n\nHe married Jayalakshmi (25 May 1932 – 14 July 1987) in 1947. He had three sons from his first marriage: Rohit (born 1952), Prakash (born 1955) and Deepak (born 1960).\n\n"}
{"id": "10515949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10515949", "title": "Icelandic Language Institute", "text": "Icelandic Language Institute\n\nThe Icelandic Language Institute (\"Íslensk málstöð\"), founded in 1985, was responsible for the planning and preservation of the Icelandic language. The Icelandic Language Institute was a department within the Ministry of Education, Science, and Culture of Iceland, and its role was to officially answer questions regarding characteristics of the Icelandic Language, as well as to provide benchmarks and guidelines for educators of Icelandic.\n\nStarting in 1997, The Icelandic Language Institute created a database on the internet, which contained 52 special glossaries compiled for use in specific areas of focus. While all of these glossaries contain Icelandic words, some are bilingual, including terms taken from English, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, German and French, among other languages.\n\nIn September 2006, The Icelandic Language Institute was merged with four other institutes to form the Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1930406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1930406", "title": "Impredicativity", "text": "Impredicativity\n\nSomething that is impredicative, in mathematics, logic and philosophy of mathematics, is a self-referencing definition. Roughly speaking, a definition is impredicative if it invokes (mentions or quantifies over) the set being defined, or (more commonly) another set that contains the thing being defined. There is no generally accepted precise definition of what it means to be predicative or impredicative. Authors have given different but related definitions.\n\nThe opposite of impredicativity is predicativity, which essentially entails building stratified (or ramified) theories where quantification over lower levels results in variables of some new type, distinguished from the lower types that the variable ranges over. A prototypical example is intuitionistic type theory, which retains ramification so as to discard impredicativity.\n\nRussell's paradox is a famous example of an impredicative construction—namely the set of all sets that do not contain themselves. The paradox is that such a set cannot exist: If it would exist, the question could be asked whether it contains itself or not — if it does then by definition it should not, and if it does not then by definition it should.\n\nThe greatest lower bound of a set , , also has an impredicative definition: if and only if for all elements of , is less than or equal to , and any less than or equal to all elements of is less than or equal to . This definition quantifies over the set (potentially infinite, depending on the order in question) whose members are the lower bounds of , one of which being the glb itself. Hence predicativism would reject this definition.\n\nThe terms \"predicative\" and \"impredicative\" were introduced by , though the meaning has changed a little since then. \n\nSolomon Feferman provides a historical review of predicativity, connecting it to current outstanding research problems.\n\nThe vicious circle principle was suggested by Henri Poincaré (1905-6, 1908) and Bertrand Russell in the wake of the paradoxes as a requirement on legitimate set specifications. Sets that do not meet the requirement are called \"impredicative\".\n\nThe first modern paradox appeared with Cesare Burali-Forti's 1897 \"A question on transfinite numbers\" and would become known as the Burali-Forti paradox. Cantor had apparently discovered the same paradox in his (Cantor's) \"naive\" set theory and this become known as Cantor's paradox. Russell's awareness of the problem originated in June 1901 with his reading of Frege's treatise of mathematical logic, his 1879 \"Begriffsschrift\"; the offending sentence in Frege is the following:\nIn other words, given the function is the variable and is the invariant part. So why not substitute the value for itself? Russell promptly wrote Frege a letter pointing out that:\nFrege promptly wrote back to Russell acknowledging the problem:\nWhile the problem had adverse personal consequences for both men (both had works at the printers that had to be emended), van Heijenoort observes that \"The paradox shook the logicians' world, and the rumbles are still felt today. ... Russell's paradox, which uses the bare notions of set and element, falls squarely in the field of logic. The paradox was first published by Russell in \"The principles of mathematics\" (1903) and is discussed there in great detail ...\". Russell, after six years of false starts, would eventually answer the matter with his 1908 theory of types by \"propounding his \"axiom of reducibility\". It says that any function is coextensive with what he calls a \"predicative\" function: a function in which the types of apparent variables run no higher than the types of the arguments\". But this \"axiom\" was met with resistance from all quarters.\n\nThe rejection of impredicatively defined mathematical objects (while accepting the natural numbers as classically understood) leads to the position in the philosophy of mathematics known as predicativism, advocated by Henri Poincaré and Hermann Weyl in his \"Das Kontinuum\". Poincaré and Weyl argued that impredicative definitions are problematic only when one or more underlying sets are infinite.\n\nErnst Zermelo in his 1908 \"A new proof of the possibility of a well-ordering\" presents an entire section \"b. \"Objection concerning nonpredicative definition\"\" where he argued against \"Poincaré (1906, p. 307) [who states that] a definition is 'predicative' and logically admissible only if it \"excludes\" all objects that are dependent upon the notion defined, that is, that can in any way be determined by it\". He gives two examples of impredicative definitions – (i) the notion of Dedekind chains and (ii) \"in analysis wherever the maximum or minimum of a previously defined \"completed\" set of numbers is used for further inferences. This happens, for example, in the well-known Cauchy proof of the fundamental theorem of algebra, and up to now it has not occurred to anyone to regard this as something illogical\". He ends his section with the following observation: \"A definition may very well rely upon notions that are equivalent to the one being defined; indeed, in every definition \"definiens\" and \"definiendum\" are equivalent notions, and the strict observance of Poincaré's demand would make every definition, hence all of science, impossible\".\n\nZermelo's example of minimum and maximum of a previously defined \"completed\" set of numbers reappears in Kleene 1952:42-42 where Kleene uses the example of Least upper bound in his discussion of impredicative definitions; Kleene does not resolve this problem. In the next paragraphs he discusses Weyl's attempt in his 1918 \"Das Kontinuum\" (\"The Continuum\") to eliminate impredicative definitions and his failure to retain the \"theorem that an arbitrary non-empty set of real numbers having an upper bound has a least upper bound (cf. also Weyl 1919)\".\n\nRamsey argued that \"impredicative\" definitions can be harmless: for instance, the definition of \"tallest person in the room\" is impredicative, since it depends on a set of things of which it is an element, namely the set of all persons in the room. Concerning mathematics, an example of an impredicative definition is the smallest number in a set, which is formally defined as: if and only if for all elements of , is less than or equal to , and is in .\n\nBurgess (2005) discusses predicative and impredicative theories at some length, in the context of Frege's logic, Peano arithmetic, second order arithmetic, and axiomatic set theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30887751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30887751", "title": "Individual variation in second-language acquisition", "text": "Individual variation in second-language acquisition\n\nIndividual variation in second-language acquisition is the study of why some people learn a second language better than others. Unlike children who acquire a language, adults learning a second language rarely reach the same level of competence as native speakers of that language. Some may stop studying a language before they have fully internalized it, and others may stop improving despite living in a foreign country for many years. It also appears that children are more likely than adults to reach native-like competence in a second language. There have been many studies that have attempted to explain these phenomena.\n\nA flurry of studies in the 1970s, often labelled the \"good language learner studies\", sought to identify the distinctive factors characteristic of successful learners. Although those studies are now widely regarded as simplistic, they did serve to identify a number of factors affecting language acquisition. More detailed research on many of these specific factors continues today. For this reason, \"individual variation in second-language acquisition\" is not generally considered a single area of research. Rather, it is simply a convenient way to categorize studies about language aptitude, age and language learning, strategy use, and affective factors that affect language acquisition.\n\nThere are two definitions that help explain individual difference variables. The first is predictive, language aptitude is related to a set of cognitive abilities. These cognitive abilities, allow one to predict how well an individual can learn a foreign language. These abilities change under limited time and circumstances. The second definition is interactional. It views language aptitude as comprehension abilities during second language learning. Aptitude is or can be subject to change according to an environment. It highlights that no specific instruction works for all second language learners. Therefore, in order for an individual to grasp a second language, there must be an adaption. Where the learner’s abilities can flourish under different learning conditions.\n\nA meta-analysis brought to light that the importance of aptitude is an overestimate when it comes to grammatical capability. In specific conditions, language aptitude is a conscious construct which affects learning results. Language aptitude can be useful in predicting the beginning stages of second language learning, when it comes to grammatical competence, but it is not a reliable way to learning stages.\n\nTests of language aptitude have proven extremely effective in predicting which learners will be successful in learning. However, considerable controversy remains about whether language aptitude is properly regarded as a unitary concept, an organic property of the brain, or as a complex of factors including motivation and short-term memory. Research has generally shown that language aptitude is quite distinct from general aptitude or intelligence, as measured by various tests, and is itself fairly consistently measurable by different tests.\n\nLanguage aptitude research is often criticized for being irrelevant to the problems of language learners, who must attempt to learn a language regardless of whether they are gifted for the task or not. This claim is reinforced by research findings that aptitude is largely unchangeable. In addition, traditional language aptitude measures such as the Modern Language Aptitude Test strongly favor decontextualized knowledge of the sort used in taking tests, rather than the sort used in conversation. For this reason little research is carried out on aptitude today. However, operators of selective language programs such as the United States Defense Language Institute continue to use language aptitude testing as part of applicant screening.\n\nHow children acquire native language (L1) and the relevance of this to foreign language (L2) learning has long been debated. Although evidence for L2 learning ability declining with age is controversial, a common notion is that children learn L2s easily and older learners rarely achieve fluency. This assumption stems from ‘critical period’ (CP) ideas. A CP was popularised by Eric Lenneberg in 1967 for L1 acquisition, but considerable interest now surrounds age effects on second-language acquisition (SLA). SLA theories explain learning processes and suggest causal factors for a possible CP for SLA, mainly attempting to explain apparent differences in language aptitudes of children and adults by distinct learning routes, and clarifying them through psychological mechanisms. Research explores these ideas and hypotheses, but results are varied: some demonstrate pre-pubescent children acquire language easily, and some that older learners have the advantage, and yet others focus on existence of a CP for SLA. Recent studies have recognised that certain aspects of SLA may be affected by age, though others remain intact.\n\nIn terms of specific ages, Steven Pinker and colleagues conducted a large-scale internet study aimed at measuring individual’s age, English proficiency, and amount of time spent practicing English. The findings suggest that the ability to learn a new language with fluency declines after age 18 and must begin by age 10. There are three main factors why our ability to acquire a new language declines after the age of 18. First, significant social changes usually occur at the age of 18. For example, during this period of time individuals may be heading off to college or entering the workforce. As a result, less time is dedicated towards learning a new language. Secondly, an individual’s primary language may impede the development of a newer language. The grammatical rules of our first language become more readily available in our minds as we are exposed to our first language in larger quantities. Lastly, our brains are still developing. In this case, learning becomes more difficult because the brain is undergoing significant changes during our late teenage years and early-20’s.\n\nThe effective use of strategies has been shown to be critical to successful language learning, so much so that Canale and Swain (1980) included \"strategic competence\" among the four components of communicative competence. Research here has also shown significant pedagogical effects. This has given rise to \"strategies-based instruction.\"\n\nStrategies are commonly divided into learning strategies and communicative strategies, although there are other ways of categorizing them. Learning strategies are techniques used to improve learning, such as mnemonics or using a dictionary. Learners (and native speakers) use communicative strategies to get meaning across even when they lack access to the correct language: for example, by using pro-forms like \"thing\", or non-spoken means such as mime. Communicative strategies may not have any direct bearing on learning, and some strategies such as avoidance (not using a form with which one is uncomfortable) may actually hinder learning.\n\nChildren use their own strategies of cross reference to learn second languages. A longitudinal study investigated preschool children in an environment where they were exposed to English as a second language. What was noted was that the children applied the knowledge from their first language, using patterns to develop their phonology. It was seen that mere immersion and rehearsal was an effective way for the children to increase their proficiency of their second language. \n\nLearners from different cultures use strategies in different ways, as a research tradition led by Rebecca Oxford has demonstrated. Related to this are differences in strategy use between male and female learners. Numerous studies have shown that female learners typically use strategies more widely and intensively than males; this may be related to the statistical advantage which female learners enjoy in language learning.\n\nDifferent learning strategies have been evaluated and tested to determine the efficacy of their methods. \n\nA strategy that was found effective with English speaking Chinese learners was the use of a virtual environment. A virtual environment consists of a digital world in which a person may experience whatever is programmed. A virtual environment was created using the online virtual world known as Second Life, where the users could interact with objects, learning the words and sounds simultaneously. This learning strategy was found to be significantly more effective than traditional methods of displaying solely an image and sound. A similar study was done immersing Chinese learners in a virtual environment and found visualization of the objects increased the learning proficiency and scores on the proficiency test. The results of the two studies suggest an advantage when using a virtual environment juxtaposed to traditional methods among Chinese learners.\n\nAffective factors relate to the learner's emotional state and attitude toward the target language. Research on affect in language learning is still strongly influenced by Bloom's taxonomy, which describes the affective levels of receiving, responding, valuing, organization, and self-characterization through one's value system. It has also been informed in recent years by research in neurobiology and neurolinguistics. A research study conducted by Ni (2012), was interested in the role that affective factors played in second-language acquisition (SLA).Additionally, she wanted to know how to apply this knowledge to the context of an educational setting. For example, many instructors want to create lessons for students that facilitate the process of learning a new foreign language. The study Ni (2012) conducted sought to find what important skills students could implement in their SLA pursuits. A 10-item questionnaire was administered to 50 students enrolled in the Foreign Language Department at Heze University in China. The questions collected data on participants’ English fluency, affective factors influence in their SLA, and the preferred method of feedback from their instructor. The main findings displayed how affective factors (e.g. motivation, self-confidence, and anxiety) may advance the acquisition of English as a second language. By using this knowledge, teachers can strengthen their students’ emotional states and create a more welcoming class environment. In doing so, students may be able to acquire a second language more effectively.\n\nFurthermore, researchers believe that language learners all possess an affective filter which affects language acquisition. If a student possesses a high filter they are less likely to engage in language learning because of shyness, concern for grammar or other factors. Students possessing a lower affective filter will be more likely to engage in learning because they are less likely to be impeded by other factors. The affective filter is an important component of second-language learning.\n\nAlthough some continue to propose that a low level of anxiety may be helpful, studies have almost unanimously shown that anxiety damages students' prospects for successful learning. Anxiety is often related to a sense of threat to the learner's self-concept in the learning situation, for example if a learner fears being ridiculed for a mistake.\n\nSecond-language acquisition is defined as the learning and adopting of a language that is not the learner's native language.\nStudies have shown that extroverts acquire a second language better than introverts.\n\nOne particular study done by Naiman reflected this point. The subjects were 72 Canadian high school students from grades 8, 10 and 12 who were studying French as a second language.\n\nNaiman gave them all questionnaires to establish their psychological profiles, which also included a French listening test and imitation test. He found that approximately 70% of the students with the higher grades (B or higher) would consider themselves extroverts.\n\nExtroverts will be willing to try to communicate even if they are not sure they will succeed. Two scientists, Kinginger and Farrell, conducted interviews with U.S. students after their study abroad program in France in 2003. They found that many of the students would avoid interaction with the native speakers at all costs, while others jumped at the opportunity to speak the language. Those who avoided interaction were typically quiet, reserved people (i.e., introverts).\n\nLogically, anxiety will cause students not to try and advance their skills, especially when they feel they are under pressure. Just the lack of practice will make introverts less likely to fully acquire the second language.\n\nThe process of language learning can be very stressful, and the impact of positive or negative attitudes from the surrounding society can be critical. One aspect that has received particular attention is the relationship of gender roles to language achievement. Studies across numerous cultures have shown that women, on the whole, enjoy an advantage over men. Some have proposed that this is linked to gender roles. Doman notes in a journal devoted to issues of Cultural effects on SLA, \"Questions abound about what defines SLA, how far its borders extend, and what the attributions and contributions of its research are. Thus, there is a great amount of heterogeneity in the entire conceptualization of SLA. Some researchers tend to ignore certain aspects of the field, while others scrutinize those same aspects piece by piece.\"\n\nCommunity attitudes toward the language being learned can also have a profound impact on Second Language Acquisition. Where the community has a broadly negative view of the target language and its speakers, or a negative view of its relation to them, learning is typically much more difficult. This finding has been confirmed by research in numerous contexts. A widely cited example is the difficulty faced by Navajo children in learning English as a second language.\n\nOther common social factors include the attitude of parents toward language study, and the nature of group dynamics in the language classroom. Additionally, early attitudes may strengthen motivation and facility with language in general, particularly with early exposure to the language. All these sum up to affect learners' acquisition of the target language and learners' language/ code choice when multiple varieties of a (second) language are involved.\n\nThe role of motivation in SLA has been the subject of extensive scholarship, closely influenced by work in motivational psychology. Motivation is internally complex, and Dörnyei begins his work by stating that \"strictly speaking, \"there is no such thing as motivation.\"\" There are many different kinds of motivation; these are often divided into types such as integrative or instrumental, intrinsic or extrinsic. Intrinsic motivation refers to the desire to do something for an internal reward. Most studies have shown it to be substantially more effective in long-term language learning than extrinsic motivation, for an external reward such as high grades or praise. Integrative and instrumental orientations refer to the degree that a language is learned \"for its own sake\" (integratively) or for instrumental purposes. Studies have not consistently shown either form of motivation to be more effective than the other, and the role of each is probably conditioned by various personality and cultural factors.\n\nSome research has shown that motivation correlates strongly with proficiency, indicating both that successful learners are motivated and that success improves motivation. Thus motivation is not fixed, but is strongly affected by feedback from the environment. Accordingly, the study of motivation in SLA has also examined many of the external factors discussed above, such as the effect of instructional techniques on motivation. An accessible summary of this research can be found in Dörnyei (2001).\n\nIn their research on willingness to communicate, MacIntyre et al. have shown that motivation is not the final construct before learners engage in communication. In fact, learners may be highly motivated yet remain unwilling to communicate.\n\nThe European Union Lifelong learning programme has funded a project to research and build a set of best practices to motivate adult language learners, called Don't Give Up\n\n"}
{"id": "3867272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3867272", "title": "Indoor games and sports", "text": "Indoor games and sports\n\nIndoor games and sports are a variety of structured forms of play or competitive physical activity, typically carried out either in the home or in specially constructed indoor facilities.\n\nMost card games are played with a pack of 52 playing cards, which are divided equally into four suits: spades, clubs, hearts and diamonds. Each suit has the numbers 2 to 10 followed by the picture cards – Joker, Queen and King – and the ace with a single pip. In some games the ace is treated as a 1, in others as better than a king. In English language packs, the picture cards are marked J, Q, K and the ace A.\n\nAmongst the most popular card games are ‘trump-and-trick’ games, which include whist and bridge. In games of this kind the ace usually ranks highest, followed by the picture cards and number cards in descending order. One suit is made trumps, which means that cards of that suit beat any card of another suit. One player leads (plays the first card) and the others must follow suit (play a card of the same suit) if they can. Each round or trick is won by the highest card of the suit led, but if a player cannot follow suit, they may play a trump and the highest trump wins. The winner is the player or team that wins the most tricks.\n\nPlaying cards came to Europe from the Muslim world in the 14th century. At that time the suit signs were swords, batons, coins and cups, which are still used in some countries. India, China and Korea also have traditional packs of playing cards. The Indian ganjifa cards are usually round, and have 8, 10 12 cards each. Chinese playing cards are very small and narrower than European cards.\n\nMany different kinds of board games are played throughout the world, and many of them have been popular for hundreds of years. A few board games are decided by chance or luck alone, but most require some amount of skill on the part of the players. Games of pure chance are usually ‘race’ games, such as the children’s game snakes and ladders which was invented by Jaques. The winner – the player who reaches a certain square first – is decided by throwing numbered dice, over which the players have no control.\n\nGames such as Monopoly and backgammon are a mixture of chance and skill. Even though luck (usually the throw of dice) plays a part, choices made by the players in the course of the game also help to decide the winner. Backgammon is one of the oldest board games that people still play. Its name comes from the Saxon (it means ‘back game’ because sometimes pieces have to go back to the beginning), but the Romans played this game too.\n\nLuck plays little or no part in games of skill – the outcome is decided by the players’ ability to make the most advantageous moves available. Such games are often ‘war’ games, which involve capturing an opponent’s pieces. The most popular of all such games today is chess. Chess is a game of great skill that calls for the ability to plan moves and recognize threats several steps ahead. Each player has an ‘army’ of 16 pieces with which to fight a battle. There are six different kinds of piece – king, queen, bishop, knight, rook and pawn – and each has its own special way of moving about the board. If a player moves onto a square occupied by an opposing piece, that piece is captured and removed from the board. The object of the game is to trap (checkmate) the enemy king by putting it in a position where it cannot escape capture.\n\nVarious indoor games, including billiards, snooker and pool, are played on a large, flat, cloth-covered table with six pockets. In these games, each of the two players tries to pot the balls (knock them into the pockets) by striking them with a cue-ball, which is hit with the tip of a stick called a cue.\nIn \"billiards\", there are just three balls: a white cue-ball for each player and one red ball. Points are scored by potting the balls, by sending the cue-ball into a pocket ‘in off’ one of the other balls, or by getting the cue-ball to hit both the other balls (a cannon). The winner is the player who reaches an agreed score first, or who has the highest score after a certain time.\n\nIn \"snooker\" there are 22 balls: 1 cue-ball, 15 reds and 6 colours. A player must first pot one of the red balls (scoring 1 point) and then one of the colours, which are worth between 2 points (yellow) and 7 (black). The colour ball is put back on the table, and the player tries to put another red. The turn or break continues until the player fails to score or plays a foul shot. When all the reds have gone, the colours are potted in sequence from yellow to black, which marks the end of the game or frame. The winner of the frame is the player with the most points. Most professional matches are decided over a fixed number of frames.\n\nIndoor sports complexes are springing up around the country (ex: South Shore Sports Complex in Oceanside, NY). These complexes often provide a Turf Field that allows a wide variety of typically outdoor sports to be played indoors. These turf fields are large and has a grassy texture to it without the maintenance required to keep it green and plush. Many sports are being played on this type of service, such as soccer, baseball, flag football, shooting softball, lacrosse, rugby, and many others.\n"}
{"id": "19872429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19872429", "title": "Irish language", "text": "Irish language\n\nThe Irish language (), also sometimes referred to as Gaelic or the Irish Gaelic language, is a Goidelic language (Gaelic) of the Indo-European language family originating in Ireland and historically spoken by the Irish people. Irish is spoken as a first language in substantial areas of counties Galway, Kerry, Cork and Donegal, smaller areas of Waterford, Mayo and Meath, and a few other locations, and as a second language by a larger group of non-habitual speakers across the country.\n\nIrish has been the predominant language of the Irish people for most of their recorded history, and they brought it with them to other regions, notably Scotland and the Isle of Man, where Middle Irish gave rise to Scottish Gaelic and Manx respectively. It has the oldest vernacular literature in Western Europe.\n\nIrish has constitutional status as the national and first official language of the Republic of Ireland and is an officially recognised minority language in Northern Ireland. It is also among the official languages of the European Union. The public body Foras na Gaeilge is responsible for the promotion of the language throughout the island of Ireland.\n\nIn (the official written standard) the name of the language is (). Before the spelling reform of 1948, this form was spelled ; originally this was the genitive of , the form used in Classical Irish. Older spellings of this include in Classical Irish and in Old Irish. The modern spelling results from the deletion of the silent \"dh\" in the middle of \"Gaedhilge\", whereas Goidelic, used to refer to the language family including Irish, is derived from the Old Irish term.\n\nOther forms of the name found in the various modern Irish dialects (in addition to south Connacht above) include () or () in Ulster Irish and northern Connacht Irish and () in Munster Irish.\n\nIn Europeand in Asia the language is usually referred to as \"Irish\", with \"Gaelic\" or \"Irish Gaelic\" used in some instances elsewhere. The term \"Irish Gaelic\" is often used when English speakers discuss the relationship between the three Goidelic languages (Irish, Scottish Gaelic and Manx).\n\nWritten Irish is first attested in Ogham inscriptions from the 4th century AD, a stage of the language known as Primitive Irish. These writings have been found throughout Ireland and the west coast of Great Britain. Primitive Irish transitioned into Old Irish through the 5th century. Old Irish, dating from the 6th century, used the Latin alphabet and is attested primarily in marginalia to Latin manuscripts. During this time, the Irish language absorbed some Latin words, some via Old Welsh, including ecclesiastical terms: examples are \"easpag\" (bishop) from , and \"Domhnach\" (Sunday, from ).\n\nBy the 10th century, Old Irish had evolved into Middle Irish, which was spoken throughout Ireland and in Scotland and the Isle of Man. It is the language of a large corpus of literature, including the Ulster Cycle. From the 12th century, Middle Irish began to evolve into modern Irish in Ireland, into Scottish Gaelic in Scotland, and into the Manx language in the Isle of Man. Early Modern Irish, dating from the 13th century, was the basis of the literary language of both Ireland and Gaelic-speaking Scotland. Modern Irish, as attested in the work of such writers as Geoffrey Keating, may be said to date from the 17th century, and was the medium of popular literature from that time on.\n\nFrom the 18th century on, the language lost ground in the east of the country. The reasons behind this shift were complex but came down to a number of factors:\n\n\nIt was a change characterised by diglossia (two languages being used by the same community in different social and economic situations) and transitional bilingualism (monoglot Irish-speaking grandparents with bilingual children and monoglot English-speaking grandchildren). By the mid-18th century, English was becoming a language of the Catholic middle class, the Catholic Church and public intellectuals, especially in the east of the country. Increasingly, as the value of English became apparent, the prohibition on Irish in schools had the sanction of parents. Once it became apparent that immigration to the United States and Canada was likely for a large portion of the population, the importance of learning English became relevant. This allowed the new immigrants to get jobs in areas other than farming. It has been estimated that, due to the immigration to the United States because of the Famine, anywhere from a quarter to a third of the immigrants were Irish speakers.\n\nIrish was not marginal to Ireland's modernisation in the 19th century, as often assumed. In the first half of the century there were still around three million people for whom Irish was the primary language, and their numbers alone made them a cultural and social force. Irish speakers often insisted on using the language in law courts (even when they knew English), and Irish was also common in commercial transactions. The language was heavily implicated in the \"devotional revolution\" which marked the standardisation of Catholic religious practice and was also widely used in a political context. Down to the time of the Great Famine and even afterwards, the language was in use by all classes, Irish being an urban as well as a rural language.\n\nThis linguistic dynamism was reflected in the efforts of certain public intellectuals to counter the decline of the language. At the end of the 19th century, they launched the Gaelic revival in an attempt to encourage the learning and use of Irish, although few adult learners mastered the language. The vehicle of the revival was the Gaelic League (Conradh na Gaeilge), and particular emphasis was placed on the folk tradition, which in Irish is particularly rich. Efforts were also made to develop journalism and a modern literature.\n\nAlthough it has been noted that the Catholic Church played a role in the decline of the Irish language before the Gaelic Revival, the Protestant Church of Ireland also made only minor efforts to encourage use of Irish in a religious context. An Irish translation of the Old Testament by Leinsterman Muircheartach Ó Cíonga, commissioned by Bishop Bedell, was published after 1685 along with a translation of the New Testament. Otherwise, Anglicisation was seen as synonymous with 'civilising'\" of the native Irish. Currently, modern day Irish speakers in the church are pushing for language revival.\n\nIrish is recognised by the Constitution of Ireland as the national and first official language of the Republic of Ireland (English is the other official language). Despite this, almost all government debates and business are conducted in English. In 1938, the founder of Conradh na Gaeilge (Gaelic League), Douglas Hyde, was inaugurated as the first President of Ireland. The record of his delivering his inaugural \"Declaration of Office\" in Roscommon Irish is one of only a few recordings of that dialect.\n\nIn the 2016 census, 10.5% of respondents stated that they spoke Irish, either daily or weekly, while over 70,000 people speak it as a habitual daily means of communication.\n\nFrom the foundation of the Irish Free State in 1922 (see also History of the Republic of Ireland), a degree of proficiency in Irish was required of all those newly appointed to the Civil Service of the Republic of Ireland, including postal workers, tax collectors, agricultural inspectors, Garda Síochána, etc. By law if a Garda was stopped and addressed in Irish he had to respond in Irish as well. Proficiency in just one official language for entrance to the public service was introduced in 1974, in part through the actions of protest organisations like the Language Freedom Movement.\n\nAlthough the Irish requirement was also dropped for wider public service jobs, Irish remains a required subject of study in all schools within the Republic which receive public money (see also Education in the Republic of Ireland). Those wishing to teach in primary schools in the State must also pass a compulsory examination called \"Scrúdú Cáilíochta sa Ghaeilge\". The need for a pass in Leaving Certificate Irish or English for entry to the Garda Síochána (police) was introduced in September 2005, and recruits are given lessons in the language during their two years of training. The most important official documents of the Irish government must be published in both Irish and English or Irish alone (in accordance with the Official Languages Act 2003, enforced by \"An Coimisinéir Teanga\", the Irish language ombudsman).\n\nThe National University of Ireland requires all students wishing to embark on a degree course in the NUI federal system to pass the subject of Irish in the Leaving Certificate or GCE/GCSE examinations. Exemptions are made from this requirement for students born outside of the Republic of Ireland, those who were born in the Republic but completed primary education outside it, and students diagnosed with dyslexia. NUI Galway is required to appoint people who are competent in the Irish language, as long as they are also competent in all other aspects of the vacancy to which they are appointed. This requirement is laid down by the University College Galway Act, 1929 (Section 3). The University faced controversy, however, in 2016 when it was announced that the next president of the University would not have any Irish. Misneach staged a number of protests against this decision. It was announced in September 2017 that Ciarán Ó hÓgartaigh, a fluent Irish speaker, will be NUIG's 13th president.\n\nFor a number of years there has been vigorous debate in political, academic and other circles about the failure of most students in mainstream (English-medium) schools to achieve competence in the language, even after fourteen years of school instruction. The concomitant decline in the number of traditional native speakers has also been a cause of great concern. In 2007, filmmaker Manchán Magan found few speakers and some incredulity while speaking only Irish in Dublin. He was unable to accomplish some everyday tasks, as portrayed in his documentary \"No Béarla\".\n\nThere is, however, a growing body of Irish speakers in urban areas, most coming through the \"Gaelscoilenna\", national schools, and a small number of secondary schools, in which Irish is the sole language of instruction. These Irish-medium schools send a much higher proportion of pupils on to third-level education than do \"mainstream\" schools, and it seems increasingly possible that, within a generation, non-Gaeltacht habitual users of Irish will typically be members of an urban, middle class and highly-educated minority. \n\nParliamentary legislation is supposed to be available in both Irish and English but is frequently only available in English. This is notwithstanding that Article 25.4 of the Constitution of Ireland requires that an \"official translation\" of any law in one official language be provided immediately in the other official language, if not already passed in both official languages.\n\nIn November 2016, it was reported that many people worldwide were learning Irish through the Duolingo app. Irish president Michael Higgins officially honoured several volunteer translators for developing the Irish edition, and said the push for Irish language rights remains an \"unfinished project\".\n\nThere are rural areas of Ireland where Irish is still spoken daily to some extent as a first language. These regions are known individually and collectively as the Gaeltacht, or in the plural as \"Gaeltachtaí\". While the Gaeltacht's fluent Irish speakers, whose numbers have been estimated at twenty or thirty thousand, are a minority of the total number of fluent Irish speakers, they represent a higher concentration of Irish speakers than other parts of the country and it is only in Gaeltacht areas that Irish continues, to some extent, to be spoken as a community vernacular.\n\nAccording to data compiled by the Department of Community, Equality and Gaeltacht Affairs, only one quarter of households in officially Gaeltacht areas are fluent in Irish. The author of a detailed analysis of the survey, Donncha Ó hÉallaithe of the Galway-Mayo Institute of Technology, described the Irish language policy followed by Irish governments as a \"complete and absolute disaster\". \"The Irish Times\", referring to his analysis published in the Irish language newspaper \"Foinse\", quoted him as follows: \"It is an absolute indictment of successive Irish Governments that at the foundation of the Irish State there were 250,000 fluent Irish speakers living in Irish-speaking or semi Irish-speaking areas, but the number now is between 20,000 and 30,000\".\n\nIn the 1920s, when the Irish Free State was founded, Irish was still a vernacular in some western coastal areas. In the 1930s, areas where more than 25% of the population spoke Irish were classified as Gaeltacht. Today, the strongest Gaeltacht areas, numerically and socially, are those of South Connemara, the west of the Dingle Peninsula and northwest Donegal, where many residents still use Irish as their primary language. These areas are often referred to as the (\"true Gaeltacht\"), a term originally officially applied to areas where over 50% of the population spoke Irish.\n\nThere are larger Gaeltacht regions in County Galway (), including Connemara (), the Aran Islands (), Carraroe () and Spiddal (), on the west coast of County Donegal (), and on the Dingle () and Iveragh Peninsulas () in County Kerry ().\n\nSmaller ones also exist in Counties Mayo (), Meath (), Waterford (), and Cork (). Gweedore (), County Donegal, is the largest Gaeltacht parish in Ireland.\nIrish language summer colleges in the Gaeltacht are attended by tens of thousands of teenagers annually. Students live with Gaeltacht families, attend classes, participate in sports, go to \"céilithe\" and are obliged to speak Irish. All aspects of Irish culture and tradition are encouraged.\n\nBefore the partition of Ireland in 1921, Irish was recognised as a school subject and as \"Celtic\" in some third level institutions. Between 1921 and 1972, Northern Ireland had devolved government. During those years the political party holding power in the Stormont Parliament, the Ulster Unionist Party (UUP), was hostile to the language. The context of this hostility was the use of the language by nationalists. In broadcasting, there was an exclusion on the reporting of minority cultural issues, and Irish was excluded from radio and television for almost the first fifty years of the previous devolved government. The language received a degree of formal recognition in Northern Ireland from the United Kingdom, under the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, and then, in 2003, by the British government's ratification in respect of the language of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. In the 2006 St Andrews Agreement the British government promised to enact \"an Irish Language Act\" to promote the language but as of 2014 it has yet to do so.\nThe Irish language has often been used as a bargaining chip during government formation in Northern Ireland, prompting protests from organisations and groups such as An Dream Dearg. There is currently an ongoing debate in relation to the status of the language in the form of an Irish Language Act. An Dream Dearg have launched a campaign in favour of such an Act called \"Acht na Gaeilge Anois\" (\"Irish Language Act Now\"). \n\nIrish became an official language of the EU on 1 January 2007, meaning that MEPs with Irish fluency can now speak the language in the European Parliament and at committees, although in the case of the latter they have to give prior notice to a simultaneous interpreter in order to ensure that what they say can be interpreted into other languages. While an official language of the European Union, only co-decision regulations must be available in Irish for the moment, due to a renewable five-year derogation on what has to be translated, requested by the Irish Government when negotiating the language's new official status. Any expansion in the range of documents to be translated will depend on the results of the first five-year review and on whether the Irish authorities decide to seek an extension. The Irish government has committed itself to train the necessary number of translators and interpreters and to bear the related costs. Derogation is expected to end completely by 2022.\n\nBefore Irish became an official language it was afforded the status of treaty language and only the highest-level documents of the EU were made available in Irish.\n\nThe Irish language was carried abroad in the modern period by a vast diaspora, chiefly to Britain and North America, but also to Australia, New Zealand and Argentina.\nThe first large movements began in the 17th century, largely as a result of the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland, which saw many Irish sent to the West Indies. Irish emigration to the United States was well established by the 18th century, and was reinforced in the 1840s by thousands fleeing from the Famine. This flight also affected Britain. Up until that time most emigrants spoke Irish as their first language, though English was establishing itself as the primary language. Irish speakers had first arrived in Australia in the late 18th century as convicts and soldiers, and many Irish-speaking settlers followed, particularly in the 1860s. New Zealand also received some of this influx. Argentina was the only non-English-speaking country to receive large numbers of Irish emigrants, and there were few Irish speakers among them.\n\nRelatively few of the emigrants were literate in Irish, but manuscripts in the language were brought to both Australia and the United States, and it was in the United States that the first newspaper to make significant use of Irish was established: An Gaodhal. In Australia, too, the language found its way into print. The Gaelic revival, which started in Ireland in the 1890s, found a response abroad, with branches of Conradh na Gaeilge being established in all the countries to which Irish speakers had emigrated.\n\nThe decline of Irish in Ireland and a slowing of emigration helped to ensure a decline in the language abroad, along with natural attrition in the host countries. Despite this, small groups of enthusiasts continued to learn and cultivate Irish in diaspora countries and elsewhere, a trend which strengthened in the second half of the 20th century. Today the language is taught at tertiary level in North America, Australia and Europe, and Irish speakers outside Ireland contribute to journalism and literature in the language. There are significant Irish-speaking networks in the United States and Canada; figures released for the period 2006–2008 show that 22,279 Americans claimed to speak Irish at home.\n\nThe Irish language is also one of the languages of the Celtic League, a non-governmental organisation that promotes self-determination and Celtic identity and culture in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Brittany, Cornwall and the Isle of Man, known as the Celtic nations. It places particular emphasis on the indigenous Celtic languages. It is recognised by the United Nations as a non-governmental organisation with \"Roster Status\" and is part of the UN's Economic and Social Council. The organisation has branches in all the Celtic nations and in Patagonia, Argentina, New York City, US, and London, UK.\n\nIrish was spoken as a community language until the early 20th century on the island of Newfoundland, in a form known as Newfoundland Irish.\n\nThe following 2016 census data shows:The total number of people who answered ‘yes’ to being able to speak Irish in April 2016 was 1,761,420, a slight decrease (0.7 per cent) on the 2011 figure of 1,774,437. This represents 39.8 per cent of respondents compared with 41.4 in 2011... Of the 73,803 daily Irish speakers (outside the education system), 20,586 (27.9%) lived in Gaeltacht areas.\n\nIrish is represented by several traditional dialects and by various varieties of \"urban\" Irish. The latter have acquired lives of their own and a growing number of native speakers. Differences between the dialects make themselves felt in stress, intonation, vocabulary and structural features.\n\nRoughly speaking, the three major dialect areas which survive coincide roughly with the provinces of Munster (), Connacht () and Ulster (). Records of some dialects of Leinster (\"Cúige Laighean\") were made by the Irish Folklore Commission and others. Newfoundland, in eastern Canada, had a form of Irish derived from the Munster Irish of the later 18th century (see Newfoundland Irish).\n\nMunster Irish is the dialect spoken in the Gaeltacht areas of the three counties Cork (), Kerry (), Waterford (). The Gaeltacht areas of Cork can be found in Cape Clear Island () and Muskerry (); those of Kerry lie in Corca Dhuibhne and Iveragh Peninsula; and those of Waterford in Ring () and Old Parish (), both of which together form Gaeltacht na nDéise. Of the three counties, the Irish spoken in Cork and Kerry are quiet similar while that of Waterford is more distinct.\n\nSome typical features of Munster Irish are:\n\nHistorically, Connacht Irish represents the westernmost remnant of a dialect area which once stretched from east to west across the centre of Ireland. The strongest dialect of Connacht Irish is to be found in Connemara and the Aran Islands. Much closer to the larger Connacht Gaeltacht is the dialect spoken in the smaller region on the border between Galway () and Mayo (). There are a number of differences between the popular South Connemara form of Irish, the Mid-Connacht/Joyce Country form (on the border between Mayo and Galway) and the Achill and Erris forms in the north of the province.\n\nFeatures in Connacht Irish differing from the official standard include a preference for verbal nouns ending in , e.g. instead of , \"weakening\". The non-standard pronunciation of the Gaeltacht Cois Fharraige area with lengthened vowels and heavily reduced endings gives it a distinct sound. Distinguishing features of Connacht and Ulster dialect include the pronunciation of word-final broad \"bh\" and \"mh\" as , rather than as in Munster. For example, (\"mountain\") is pronounced in Connacht and Ulster as opposed to in the south. In addition Connacht and Ulster speakers tend to include the \"we\" pronoun rather than use the standard compound form used in Munster, e.g. is used for \"we were\" instead of .\n\nAs in Munster Irish, some short vowels are lengthened and others diphthongised before -\"nn\", -\"m\", -\"rr\", -\"rd\", -\"ll\", in monosyllabic words and in the stressed syllable of multisyllabic words where the syllable is followed by a consonant. This can be seen in \"ceann\" [cɑ:n] \"head\", \"cam\" [kɑ:m] \"crooked\", \"gearr\" [gʲɑ:r] \"short\", \"ord\" [ourd] \"sledgehammer\", \"gall\" [gɑ:l] \"foreigner, non-Gael\", \"iontas\" [i:ntəs] \"a wonder, a marvel\", etc. The form '-aibh', when occurring at the end of words like 'agaibh', tends to be pronounced as an 'ee' sound.\n\nIn South Connemara, for example, there is a tendency to substitute a \"b\" sound at the end of words ending in \"bh\" , such as \"sibh\", \"libh\" and \"dóibh\", something not found in the rest of Connacht (these words would be pronounced respectively as \"shiv,\" \"liv\" and \"dófa\" in the other areas). This placing of the B-sound is also present at the end of words ending in vowels, such as \"acu\" (pronounced as \"acub\") and \"leo\" (pronounced as \"lyohab\"). There is also a tendency to omit the \"g\" sound in words such as \"agam\", \"agat\" and \"againn\", a characteristic also of other Connacht dialects. All these pronunciations are distinctively regional.\n\nThe pronunciation prevalent in the Joyce Country (the area around Lough Corrib and Lough Mask) is quite similar to that of South Connemara, with a similar approach to the words \"agam\", \"agat\" and \"againn\" and a similar approach to pronunciation of vowels and consonants. But there are noticeable differences in vocabulary, with certain words such as \"doiligh\" (difficult) and \"foscailte\" being preferred to the more usual \"deacair\" and \"oscailte\". Another interesting aspect of this sub-dialect is that almost all vowels at the end of words tend to be pronounced as \"í\": \"eile\" (other), \"cosa\" (feet) and \"déanta\" (done) tend to be pronounced as \"eilí\", \"cosaí\" and \"déantaí\" respectively.\n\nThe northern Mayo dialect of Erris () and Achill () is in grammar and morphology essentially a Connacht dialect, but shows some similarities to Ulster Irish due to large-scale immigration of dispossessed people following the Plantation of Ulster. For example, words ending \"-mh\" and \"-bh\" have a much softer sound, with a tendency to terminate words such as \"leo\" and \"dóibh\" with \"f\", giving \"leofa\" and \"dófa\" respectively. In addition to a vocabulary typical of other area of Connacht, one also finds Ulster words like \"amharc\" (meaning \"to look\" and pronounced \"onk\"), \"nimhneach\" (painful or sore), \"druid\" (close), \"mothaigh\" (hear), \"doiligh\" (difficult), \"úr\" (new), and \"tig le\" (to be able to – i.e. a form similar to \"féidir\").\n\nIrish President Douglas Hyde was possibly one of the last speakers of the Roscommon dialect of Irish.\n\nUlster Irish is the dialect spoken in the Gaeltacht regions of Donegal. These regions contain all of Ulster's communities where Irish has been spoken in an unbroken line back to when the language was the dominant language of Ireland. The Irish-speaking communities in other parts of Ulster are a result of language revival – English-speaking families deciding to learn Irish.\n\nLinguistically, the most important of the Ulster dialects today is that which is spoken, with slight differences, in both Gweedore ( = Inlet of Streaming Water) and The Rosses (). Natives of Gweedore include singers Enya () and Moya Brennan and their siblings in Clannad ( = Family from the Dobhar [a section of Gweedore]) Na Casaidigh, and Mairéad Ní Mhaonaigh from another local band Altan. Natives of The Rosses include the literary brothers Séamus Ó Grianna and Seosamh Mac Grianna, locally known as Jimí Fheilimí and Joe Fheilimí.\n\nUlster Irish sounds quite different to the other two main dialects. It shares several features with southern dialects of Scottish Gaelic and Manx, as well as having lots of characteristic words and shades of meanings. However, since the demise of those Irish dialects spoken natively in what is today Northern Ireland, it is probably an exaggeration to see present-day Ulster Irish as an intermediary form between Scottish Gaelic and the southern and western dialects of Irish. Northern Scottish Gaelic has many non-Ulster features in common with Munster Irish.\n\nOne noticeable trait of Ulster Irish, Scots Gaelic and Manx is the use of the negative particle in place of the Munster and Connacht . Though southern Donegal Irish tends to use more than \"cha(n)\", \"cha(n)\" has almost ousted \"ní\" in northernmost dialects (e.g. Rosguill and Tory Island), though even in these areas \"is not\" is more common than \"chan fhuil\" or \"cha bhfuil\". Another noticeable trait is the pronunciation of the first person singular verb ending \"-im\" as \"-am\", also common to Man and Scotland (Munster/Connacht \"siúlaim\" \"I walk\", Ulster \"siúlam\").\n\nDown to the early 19th century and even later, Irish was spoken in all twelve counties of Leinster. The evidence furnished by placenames, literary sources and recorded speech indicates that there were three dialects spoken in Leinster. The main dialect was represented by a broad central belt stretching from west Connacht eastwards to the Liffey estuary and southwards to Wexford, though with many local variations. Two smaller dialects were represented by the Ulster speech of counties Meath and Louth, which extended as far south as the Boyne valley, and a Munster dialect found in Kilkenny and south Laois. \n\nThe main dialect had characteristics which survive today only in the Irish of Connacht. It typically placed the stress on the first syllable of a word, and showed a preference (found in placenames) for the pronunciation \"cr\" where the standard spelling is \"cn\". The word (hill) would therefore be pronounced . Examples are the placenames Crooksling () in County Dublin and Crukeen () in Carlow. East Leinster showed the same diphthongisation or vowel lengthening as in Munster and Connacht Irish in words like (hole), (monastery), (wood), (head), (crooked) and (crowd). A feature of the dialect was the pronunciation of the vowel \"ao\", which generally became \"ae\" in east Leinster (as in Munster), and \"í\" in the west (as in Connacht).\n\nEarly evidence regarding colloquial Irish in east Leinster is found in \"The Fyrst Boke of the Introduction of Knowledge\" (1547), by the English physician and traveller Andrew Borde. The illustrative phrases he uses include the following (with regularised Irish spelling in brackets):\n\nThe Pale () was an area around late medieval Dublin under the control of the English government. By the late 15th century it consisted of an area along the coast from Dalkey, south of Dublin, to the garrison town of Dundalk, with an inland boundary encompassing Naas and Leixlip in the Earldom of Kildare and Trim and Kells in County Meath to the north. In this area of \"Englyshe tunge\" English had never actually been a dominant language - and was moreover a relatively late comer; the first colonisers were Normans who spoke Norman French, and before these Norse. The Irish language had always been the language of the bulk of the population. An English official remarked of the Pale in 1515 that \"all the common people of the said half counties that obeyeth the King's laws, for the most part be of Irish birth, of Irish habit and of Irish language\".\n\nWith the strengthening of English cultural and political control, language change began to occur, but this did not become clearly evident until the 18th century. Even then, in the decennial period 1771–81, the percentage of Irish speakers in Meath was at least 41%. By 1851 this had fallen to less than 3%.\n\nEnglish expanded strongly in Leinster in the 18th century, but Irish speakers were still numerous. In the decennial period 1771–81 certain counties had estimated percentages of Irish speakers as follows (though the estimates are likely to be too low):\n\nThe language saw its most rapid initial decline in Laois, Wexford, Wicklow, County Dublin and perhaps Kildare.\nThe proportion of Irish-speaking children in Leinster went down as follows: 17% in the 1700s, 11% in the 1800s, 3% in the 1830s and virtually none in the 1860s.\n\nThe Irish census of 1851 showed that there were still a number of older speakers in County Dublin. Sound recordings were made between 1928 and 1931 of some of the last speakers in Omeath, County Louth (now available in digital form). The last known traditional native speaker in Omeath, and in Leinster as a whole, was Annie O'Hanlon (née Dobbin), who died in 1960.\n\nIrish was spoken as a community language in Irish towns and cities down to the 19th century. In the 16th and 17th centuries it was widespread even in Dublin and the Pale.\n\nThe Irish of Dublin, situated as it was between the east Ulster dialect of Meath and Louth to the north and the Leinster-Connacht dialect further south, may have reflected the characteristics of both in phonology and grammar. In County Dublin itself the general rule was to place the stress on the initial vowel of words. With time it appears that the forms of the dative case took over the other case endings in the plural (a tendency found to a lesser extent in other dialects). In a letter written in Dublin in 1691 we find such examples as the following: \"gnóthuimh\" (accusative case, the standard form being \"gnóthaí\"), \"tíorthuibh\" (accusative case, the standard form being \"tíortha\") and \"leithscéalaibh\" (genitive case, the standard form being \"leithscéalta\").\n\nEnglish authorities of the Cromwellian period, aware that Irish was widely spoken in Dublin, arranged for its official use. In 1655 several local dignitaries were ordered to oversee a lecture in Irish to be given in Dublin. In March 1656 a converted Catholic priest, Séamas Corcy, was appointed to preach in Irish at Bride’s parish every Sunday, and was also ordered to preach at Drogheda and Athy. In 1657 the English colonists in Dublin presented a petition to the Municipal Council complaining that in Dublin itself \"there is Irish commonly and usually spoken\".\n\nThere is contemporary evidence of the use of Irish in other urban areas at the time. In 1657 it was found necessary to have an Oath of Abjuration (rejecting the authority of the Pope) read in Irish in Cork so that people could understand it.\n\nIrish was sufficiently strong in early 18th century Dublin to be the language of a coterie of poets and scribes led by Seán and Tadhg Ó Neachtain, both poets of note. Scribal activity in Irish persisted in Dublin right through the 18th century. An outstanding example was Muiris Ó Gormáin (Maurice Gorman), a prolific producer of manuscripts who advertised his services (in English) in \"Faulkner's Dublin Journal\".\n\nIn other urban centres the descendants of medieval Anglo-Norman settlers, the so-called Old English, were Irish-speaking or bilingual by the 16th century. The English administrator and traveller Fynes Moryson, writing in the last years of the 16th century, said that \"the English Irish and the very citizens (excepting those of Dublin where the lord deputy resides) though they could speak English as well as we, yet commonly speak Irish among themselves, and were hardly induced by our familiar conversation to speak English with us\". The demise of native cultural institutions in the seventeenth century saw the social prestige of Irish diminish, and the gradual Anglicisation of the middle classes followed.\n\nThe census of 1851 showed that the towns and cities of Munster still had significant Irish-speaking populations. In 1819 James McQuige, a veteran Methodist lay preacher in Irish, wrote: \"In some of the largest southern towns, Cork, Kinsale and even the Protestant town of Bandon, provisions are sold in the markets, and cried in the streets, in Irish\". Irish speakers constituted over 40% of the population of Cork even in 1851.\n\nThe 19th century saw a reduction in the number of Dublin’s Irish speakers, in keeping with the trend elsewhere. This continued until the end of the century, when the Gaelic revival saw the creation of a strong Irish–speaking network, typically united by various branches of the Conradh na Gaeilge, and accompanied by renewed literary activity. By the 1930s Dublin had a lively literary life in Irish.\n\nUrban Irish has been the beneficiary, over the last few decades, of a rapidly expanding independent school system, known generally as Gaelscoileanna. These schools teach entirely through Irish, and there are over thirty in Dublin alone.\n\nIt is likely that the number of urban native speakers (i.e. people who were born into Irish-speaking households and educated through Irish) is on the increase. It has been suggested that Ireland's towns and cities are acquiring a critical mass of Irish speakers, reflected in the expansion of Irish language media. Colloquial urban Irish is changing in unforeseen ways, with attention being drawn to the rapid loss of consonantal mutations (which are intrinsic to the language). It is presently uncertain whether the urban Irish of non-native speakers will become a dialect in its own right or grow further apart from native Gaeltacht Irish and become a creole (i.e. a new language).\n\n\"An Caighdeán Oifigiúil\" (\"The Official Standard\"), often shortened to \"An Caighdeán\", is the standard for the spelling and grammar of written Irish, developed and used by the Irish government. Its rules are followed by most schools in Ireland, though schools in and near Irish-speaking regions also use the local dialect. It was published by the translation department of Dáil Éireann in 1953 and updated in 2012 and 2017.\n\nThere is no official standard for pronouncing the Irish language. Certain dictionaries, such as , provide a single pronunciation which is followed by most schools in regions which do not have a native dialect.\n\nThe differences between dialects are considerable, and have led to recurrent difficulties in defining standard Irish. In recent decades contacts between speakers of different dialects have become more frequent and the differences between the dialects are less noticeable.\n\nIn pronunciation, Irish most closely resembles its nearest relatives, Scottish Gaelic and Manx. One notable feature is that consonants (except ) come in pairs, one \"broad\" (velarised, pronounced with the back of the tongue pulled back towards the soft palate) and one \"slender\" (palatalised, pronounced with the middle of the tongue pushed up towards the hard palate). While broad–slender pairs are not unique to Irish (being found, for example, in Russian), in Irish they have a grammatical function.\n\nDiphthongs: .\n\nIrish is a fusional, VSO, nominative-accusative language. Irish is neither verb nor satellite framed, and makes liberal use of deictic verbs.\n\nNouns decline for 3 numbers: singular, dual, plural; 2 genders: masculine, feminine; and 4 cases: ainmneach (nominative and accusative), gairmeach (vocative), ginideach (genitive), and tabharthach (prepositional). Adjectives agree with nouns in number, gender, and case. Adjectives generally follow nouns, though some precede or prefix nouns. Demonstrative adjectives have proximal, medial, and distal forms. The prepositional case is called the dative by convention.\n\nVerbs conjugate for 3 tenses: past, present, future; 2 aspects: simple, habitual; 2 numbers: singular, plural; 4 moods: indicative, subjunctive, conditional, imperative; relative forms; and in some verbs, independent and dependent forms. Verbs conjugate for 3 persons and an impersonal form in which no agent can be determined. There are two verbs for \"to be\", one for inherent qualities, and one for transient qualities. The passive voice and many other forms are periphrastic. There are a number of preverbal particles marking the negative, interrogative, subjunctive, relative clauses, etc. There is a verbal noun, and verbal adjective. Verb forms are highly regular, many grammars recognise only 11 irregular verbs.\n\nPrepositions inflect for person and number. Different prepositions govern different cases. Some prepositions govern different cases depending on intended semantics. The word (at), becomes (at me) in the first person singular. When used with the verb (to be), indicates possession. Irish shares this attribute with Russian.\n\n\nNumerals have 4 forms: abstract, impersonal, personal, and ordinal.\n\nIn Irish, there are two classes of initial consonant mutations, which express grammatical relationship and meaning in verbs, nouns and adjectives:\n\n\nMutations are often the only way to distinguish grammatical forms. For example, the only non-contextual way to distinguish possessive pronouns \"her,\" \"his\" and \"their\", is through initial mutations since all meanings are represented by the same word \"a\".\n\n\nDue to initial mutation, prefixes, clitics, suffixes, root inflection, ending morphology, elision, sandhi, epinthesis, and assimilation; the beginning, core, and end of words can each change radically and even simultaneously depending on context.\n\nModern Irish traditionally used the ISO basic Latin alphabet without the letters j, k, q, w, x, y and z, but with the addition of one diacritic sign, the acute accent (\"á é í ó ú\"), known in Irish as the (\"long mark\"; plural: ). However, some gaelicised words use those letters: for instance, 'Jeep' is written as 'Jíp' (the letter v has been naturalised into the language, although it is not part of the traditional alphabet, and has the same pronunciation as \"bh\"). In idiomatic English usage, this diacritic is frequently referred to simply as the , where the adjective is used as a noun. The \"fada\" serves to lengthen the sound of the vowels and in some cases also changes their quality. For example, in Munster Irish (Kerry), \"a\" is or and \"á\" is in \"father\" but in Ulster Irish (Donegal), \"á\" tends to be .\n\nTraditional orthography had an additional diacritica dot over some consonants to indicate lenition. In modern Irish, the letter h suffixed to a consonant indicates that the consonant is lenited. Thus, for example, 'Gaelaċ' has become 'Gaelach'.\n\nAround the time of the Second World War, Séamas Daltún, in charge of (the official translations department of the Irish government), issued his own guidelines about how to standardise Irish spelling and grammar. This de facto standard was subsequently approved by the State and called the Official Standard or . It simplified and standardised the orthography. Many words had silent letters removed and vowel combination brought closer to the spoken language. Where multiple versions existed in different dialects for the same word, one or more were selected.\n\nExamples:\n\nThe standard spelling does not necessarily reflect the pronunciation used in particular dialects. For example, in standard Irish, \"bia\", \"food\", has the genitive \"bia\". In Munster Irish, however, the genitive is pronounced . For this reason, the spelling is still used by the speakers of some dialects, in particular those that show a meaningful and audible difference between (nominative case) and (genitive case) \"of food, food's\". In Munster the latter spelling regularly produces the pronunciation because final \"-idh, -igh\" regularly delenites to \"-ig\" in Munster pronunciation. Another example would be the word \"crua\", meaning \"hard\". This pronounced in Munster, in line with the pre-Caighdeán spelling, \"cruaidh\". In Munster, \"ao\" is pronounced and \"aoi\" pronounced , but the new spellings of \"saoghal\", \"life, world\", genitive: \"saoghail\", have become \"saol\", genitive \"saoil\". This produces irregularities in the match-up between the spelling and pronunciation in Munster, because the word is pronounced , genitive .\n\nThe dot-above diacritic, called a or (often shortened to ), derives from the \"punctum delens\" used in medieval manuscripts to indicate deletion, similar to crossing out unwanted words in handwriting today. From this usage it was used to indicate the lenition of \"s\" (from to ) and \"f\" (from to zero) in Old Irish texts.\n\nLenition of \"c\", \"p\", and \"t\" was indicated by placing the letter \"h\" after the affected consonant; lenition of other sounds was left unmarked. Later both methods were extended to be indicators of lenition of any sound except \"l\" and \"n\", and two competing systems were used: lenition could be marked by a or by a postposed \"h\". Eventually, use of the predominated when texts were written using Gaelic letters, while the \"h\" predominated when writing using Roman letters.\n\nToday, Gaelic type and the are rarely used except where a \"traditional\" style is required, e.g. the motto on the University College Dublin coat of arms or the symbol of the Irish Defence Forces, The Irish Defence Forces cap badge . Letters with the are available in Unicode and Latin-8 character sets (see Latin Extended Additional chart).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1683879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683879", "title": "Ithkuil", "text": "Ithkuil\n\nIthkuil is an experimental constructed language created by John Quijada, designed to express deeper levels of human cognition briefly yet overtly and clearly, particularly with regard to human categorization. Presented as a cross between an a priori philosophical and a logical language striving to minimize the ambiguities and semantic vagueness found in natural human languages, Ithkuil is notable for its grammatical complexity and extensive phoneme inventory, the latter being simplified in the final version of the language. The name \"Ithkuil\" is an anglicized form of \"Îţkûil\", which in the original form roughly means \"hypothetical representation of a language\". Quijada states he did not create Ithkuil to be auxiliary or used in everyday conversations, but rather to serve as a language for more elaborate and profound fields where more insightful thoughts are expected, such as philosophy, arts, science and politics.\n\nThe many examples from the original grammar book show that a message, like a meaningful phrase or a sentence, can usually be expressed in Ithkuil with fewer sounds, or lexically distinct speech-elements, than in natural human languages. For example, the two-word Ithkuil sentence \"Tram-mļöi hhâsmařpţuktôx\" can be translated into English as \"On the contrary, I think it may turn out that this rugged mountain range trails off at some point\". Quijada deems his creation too complex and strictly regular a language to have developed naturally, but nonetheless a language suited to human conversation. No person, including Quijada himself, is known to be able to speak Ithkuil fluently.\n\nThree versions of the language have been publicized: the initial version in 2004, a simplified version called Ilaksh in 2007, and the most recent version in 2011, with additional updates on the morphophonology and lexicon.\n\nIn 2004—and again in 2009 with Ilaksh—Ithkuil was featured in the Russian-language popular science and IT magazine \"Computerra\". In 2008, David Peterson awarded it the Smiley Award. In 2013, Bartłomiej Kamiński codified the language to be able to quickly parse complicated sentences. Since July 2015, Quijada has published several Ithkuil music voiced by Peterson under the album \"Kaduatán\", which translates to \"Wayfarers\".\n\nIthkuil evolved over 45 years as a linguistic experiment beyond Western Indo-European languages in response to the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis and Charles J. Fillmore’s case grammar into \"a complex, intricate array of interwoven grammatical concepts [...] inspired by ideas inspired by countless hours studying texts in theoretical linguistics, cognitive grammar, psycholinguistics, language acquisition, linguistic relativity, semantics, semiotics, philosophy, fuzzy set theory, and even quantum physics. \"\n\nFor his influences, Quijada cites the obscure \"morpho-phonology of Abkhaz verb complexes, the moods of verbs of certain American Indian languages, the aspectual system of Niger–Kordofanian languages, the nominal case systems of Basque and Dagestanian languages, the enclitic system of the Wakashan languages, the positional orientation systems of Tzeltal and Guugu Yimithirr, the Semitic triliteral root morphology, and the hearsay and possessive categories of Suzette Elgin's Láadan language\". The writing system's logical design borrows principles from Ethiopic and Brahmi scripts, but employs a unique morpho-phonemic principle. The script used throughout the Ithkuil grammar bears superficial resemblance to Hebrew square script and the various Klingon fonts, and Ilaksh has also used a \"cartouche script\" and a cursive format. Because Ithkuil is designed for users to be precise in their speech, it is quite difficult to express humorous concepts in Ithkuil.\n\nThe initial publication of Ithkuil in 2004 had an extensive phonology of 65 consonants and 17 vowels. Since the mention of Ithkuil in the Russian magazine \"Computerra\", several speakers of Russian contacted Quijada and expressed enthusiasm to learn Ithkuil for its application to psychonetics, with several complaining about its difficulty in pronunciation. Quijada remade Ithkuil's morphophonology with 30 consonants and 10 vowels (and the addition of tones) and published the revision on 10 June 2007 as Ilaksh. The language featured other amendments to grammar, including some additional Levels and a change of Cases. It was redesigned to be easier to speak and included an additional writing system. The initial sequential \"informal\" system suitable for handwriting or compact typesetting, and a \"formal\" logographic system with artistic possibilities resembling Maya scripts.\n\nIn the \"informal\" writing system, several parallel sets of lines are shaped to correspond sequentially to the different parallel sets of lexemes and inflections. It is directly pronounceable. The author designed it with reserve for convenient handwriting. The overall design would permit compact, clear, black-and-white rendering.\n\nIn the colorful \"formal\" script, a single complex glyph represented an entire sentence. Diversely shaped, shaded and superimposed cartouches represent the syntactic relations of the verb and noun phrases of a sentence. The edges of the cartouches had particular shapes that indicate one set of inflections, the colors indicate another set of inflections, and the textures yet another one. On the cartouches, letters of hexagonal outline would spell out the forms of particular lexemes. The cartouches formed phrases, with primary phrases overlapping subordinate phrases. The coloring system utilized different color densities and texturing for different colors in order to be usable by colorblind people. These density conventions also allowed the formal system to be inexpensively printed in black-and-white, or inscribed or imprinted on stone or other materials.\n\nIlaksh was superseded by a newer language, also termed Ithkuil because of its ties to the initial publication. Its script uses a unique morpho-phonemic principle that allows sentences representing grammatical categories to be pronounced in multiple ways as the speaker sees fit. As of July 2011, Quijada planned to adopt the cartouche script \"for use as an alternative, 'ornamental' writing system for artistic purposes\" to the newest revision of Ithkuil, which was made to be morphologically similar to Ilaksh.\n\nOwing to complaints about the difficult patterns in the language morphology from the community Reddit forum, on 30 October 2017, Quijada published a tentative outline for a new version of the language, which has yet to be named, addressing learners' desires for a more agglutinative morphophonology, including a restructured Formative outline, and extended use of Adjuncts for flexible expression of the grammar to further create phonaesthetics.\n\nThe newly revised Ithkuil has 45 consonants and 13 vowels. At the left of each cell in the table below is the phoneme, and at the right its transliterated representation if it is not written the same in IPA as in romanized Ithkuil. The consonants are as follows:\n\n/ / can be syllabic. All consonants except / / can be geminated; when geminated, is a bidental fricative or a voiceless pharyngeal fricative (), and is an alveolar trill. The 13 vowels of Ithkuil are as follows:\n\n/ / are pronounced [ ] when they precede another vowel, and when at the end of a word. / / are pronounced [ ] when they precede another vowel, excepting / /. In a future revision of the language, Quijada has noted that ê and ô will be removed to allow for easier memorization.\n\nThe diphthongs in Ithkuil are , , , , , , , , , , , . All other sequences of vowels are pronounced as separate syllables.\n\nIthkuil words can be divided into just two parts of speech, \"formatives\" and \"adjuncts\". Formatives can function both as nouns and as verbs, derived from the root and depending on the morpho-semantic context.\n\nRoots are Ithkuil's most basic semantic units. All Ithkuil formatives are derived from a limited number of roots. Each root consists of a cluster of 1–4 consonants (five-consonant clusters are also available, but remain without an assigned meaning). The current lexicon of Ithkuil can potentially consist of approximately 3,600 word roots. So far, just over 1000 have been assigned translations. From the root, word stems are formed by affixing the vocalic affix that indicates pattern, stem type, and function, and by stressing a particular syllable to indicate informal or formal designation.\n\nThere are three stems associated with each root. Each stem comes in three patterns, one holistic and two complementary ones. Holistic stem 1 typically refers to the most general manifestation of a root, whereas holistic stems 2 and 3 typically refer to more specific manifestations associated with the root. Each holistic stem has two complementary stems associated with it, which refer to the complementary concepts related to the holistic stem. The specific meaning of complementary stems depends somewhat on the root. These are derived from the word roots by prefixing a vowel or diphthong that also indicates the grammatical category \"function\". Two examples are given in the tables below:\n\nAll Ithkuil formatives, whether functioning as nouns or verbs, inflect for various grammatical categories that are quite dissimilar from any of those in natural languages. Quantization is more or less covered by the grammatical categories of \"Configuration\", \"Affiliation\", and \"Perspective\", even though these do not technically refer to number per se.\n\nThere are 96 grammatical cases in Ithkuil, one special case being the Vocative, used for direct address. Verbal formatives inflect for case under Frame constructions (i.e., dependent clauses). The grammatical cases of Ithkuil can be divided into several distinct groups:\n\nSeveral distinct grammatical categories apply only to verbal formatives. These are listed below:\n\nIthkuil nominal formatives also carry a \"function\", but cannot be inflected for them, always remaining in the \"stative\".\n\nIthkuil uses a variety of affixes, termed suffixes, to further delineate what is described by the formative.\n\nThere are two types of adjuncts in Ithkuil: personal-reference adjuncts and verbal adjuncts. All adjuncts are highly synthetic.\n\nPersonal-reference adjuncts are akin to pronouns in English. There are two types of personal-reference adjuncts in Ithkuil: Single-referent and dual-referent.\n\nVerbal adjuncts are adjuncts that work in conjunction with verbal formatives to provide information about the latter's \"Valence\", \"Level\", \"Phase\", \"Sanction\", \"Illocution\", \"Modality\", \"Aspect\", and \"Bias\". Of these, \"Modality\" and \"Level\" can only be indicated using verbal adjuncts, whereas the others can also be expressed on the verbal formative.\n\nIthkuil uses a base 100 numeral system with roots for the numbers 1 to 10, and a stem-specific derivative suffix used with a number root to add a multiple of 10, providing the numerals up to 99. Ithkuil did not originally use the concept of zero. Numbers greater than 100 are expressed periphrastically in speech, whereas a special numerical script had logograms for the numbers 1 to 100 and exponential powers of 100.\n\nOn 27 March 2015 Quijada released a mathematical sublanguage using a dozenal number system.\n\nIthkuil uses a morphophonemic script because characters convey both phonetic and morphological information. Its use is closely tied to Ithkuil's grammatical system, which allows much of the phonological aspect of words to be morpho-syntactically inferred. Those parts of an Ithkuil word whose pronunciation is predictable are not written, whereas the characters used to indicate the pronunciation of the unpredictable parts of a word also convey the grammatical information necessary to reconstruct the implicit phonetics. Words are thus written in a highly abbreviated manner, particularly useful for the highly inflected, occasionally elongated words of the Ithkuil language. The script is also used alphabetically for transliterating foreign words and mathematical expressions.\n\nThe 2004 version of Ithkuil had a significantly more complicated morphophonology.\n\nThe phonological system of the original Ithkuil consisted of 65 consonants, including the palatal plosives /ɟ/, /c/, /cʰ/, /cʼ/; uvular plosive /ɢ/; retroflex affricates /ɖ͡ʐ/, /ʈ͡ʂ/, /ʈ͡ʂʰ/, /ʈ͡ʂʼ/; lateral aspirated and central ejective palatal affricates /cʎ̥˔ʰ/, /c͡çʼ/; velar affricates /k͡xʼ/, /q͡χʼ/; retroflex fricatives /ʐ/, /ʂ/; palatal fricative /ʝ/; velar fricative /ɣ/; voiceless pharyngeal fricative /ħ/; two dental approximants /l̪/ /ɫ̪/ (substituted for the alveolar approximant /l/); and the retroflex approximant /ɻ/. /m n̪ ŋ l ɫ ɻ/ could be syllabic. /h/ was [ɸ] when preceded by a vowel and followed by another consonant. [cʎ̥˔ʰ] was in free variation with [cʎ̥˔ʼ], the latter being more common at the beginning of a word. All consonants except /j w/ could be geminated; when geminated, /h/ was a bidental fricative and /ɽ/ an aveolar trill.\n\nAt the left of each cell in the table below is the phoneme, and at the right its transliterated representation. The original 17 vowels are as follows:\n\nThe diphthongs were , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , . All other sequences of vowels were pronounced as separate syllables.\n\nThe lexicon of the original Ithkuil consisted of the same pattern as the current form of the language. However, each root consisted of 2 consonantal \"radicals\", and could derive thousands of lexemes through the use of Ithkuil's complex rules of morphophonology, which involved both consonantal and vocal mutation, shifts in syllabic stress and tone, and affixation.\n\nIthkuil words can be divided into just two parts of speech, \"formatives\" and \"adjuncts\". Formatives functioned both as nouns and as verbs, depending on the morpho-semantic context. Formatives were inflected for the current grammatical categories, plus 2 \"foci\", and 81 \"cases\"; they could also have taken on some of the 153 affixes, which further qualified into one of 9 \"degrees\". Verbal formatives were additionally inflected for 7 \"conflations\".\n\n\"Verbal adjuncts\" similarly worked in conjunction with adjacent formatives to provide additional grammatical information. Two types of verbal adjuncts were inflected to indicate 14 \"valencies\", 6 \"versions\", 8 \"formats\", 37 \"derivations\", 30 \"modalities\", 4 \"levels\", 9 \"validations\", 9 \"phases\", 9 \"sanctions\", 32 \"aspects\", 8 \"moods\", and 24 \"biases\".\n\nThe word \"iţkuîl\" was a \"formative\" derived from the \"root\" \"k-l\" (broadly concerning \"speech\", \"voice\", or even \"interpretation\") through the addition of several morphological determinants:\nThus, the approximate translation of \"iţkuîl\" was \"an idea/fantasy of a complete purposeful system of complementary speech elements\", or simply \"an imaginary language\".\n\nIn an effort to make the language more speakable, Quijada created a revision called \"Ilaksh\".\n\nThe phonological system of Ilaksh was revised to consist of only 30 consonants and 10 vowels. The consonants were as follows:\n\n/m n̪ ŋ l ɽ/ could be syllabic. All consonants except /j w ʔ/ could be geminated; when geminated, h is a bidental fricative or a voiceless pharyngeal fricative, and ɽ is an alveolar trill. The clusters /n̪j/, /tj/, /dj/, and /lj/ could be pronounced as such or as the palatals [ɲ], [c], [ɟ], and [ʎ].\n\nThe vowels were follows:\n\nThe 14 diphthongs of Ilaksh were , , , , , , , , , , , , , and . All other sequences of vowels were pronounced as separate syllables.\n\nThe Sapir–Whorf hypothesis postulates that a person's language influences their perceptions and cognitive patterns. Stanislav Kozlovsky proposed in the Russian popular-scientific magazine \"Computerra\" that a fluent speaker of Ithkuil, accordingly, would think \"about five or six times as fast\" as a speaker of a typical natural language. The Sapir–Whorf hypothesis would suggest that, Ithkuil being an extremely precise and synthetic language, its speakers would have a more discerning, deeper understanding both of everyday situations and of broader phenomena, and of abstract philosophical categories.\n\nHowever, strong forms of the hypothesis, which postulate that language \"determines\" thought and not only influences it, have been disproven within mainstream linguistics. Moreover, in line with this, Quijada has stated he does not believe a speaker would think necessarily any faster, because even though Ithkuil is terse, a single word requires a lot more thought before it can be spoken than it would in a natural language.\n\n\"For these reasons, I believe use of Ithkuil would probably allow one to think more deeply, critically, and analytically; but think faster? I doubt it.\"\n\nKozlovsky also likened Ithkuil to the fictional \"Speedtalk\" from Robert A. Heinlein's novella \"Gulf\", and contrasted both languages with the \"Newspeak\" of the communicationally restricted society of Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\". Ithkuil is by far the most complete language of the three, though Speedtalk and Newspeak were merely \"sampled\" by their creators, with an outline of neither grammar nor lexicon. John Quijada acknowledged the similarity of Ithkuil's design goals to those of Speedtalk, remarking that,\n\n\"[h]owever, Heinlein's Speedtalk appears to focus only on the morpho-phonological component of language[, whereas] Ithkuil has been designed with an equal focus on [morphology, lexico-morphology, or lexico-semantics]. Additionally, the apparent purpose of Heinlein's language is simple rapidity/brevity of speech and thought, while Ithkuil is focused on maximal communication in the most efficient manner, a somewhat different purpose, in which brevity per se is irrelevant.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9584949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9584949", "title": "Jena Symphony", "text": "Jena Symphony\n\nThe so-called \"Jena Symphony\" is a symphony that was at one time attributed to Ludwig van Beethoven. The symphony was discovered by Fritz Stein in 1909 in the archives of a concert society in Jena, from which it derived its name. Stein believed it to be the work of Beethoven and it was so published by Breitkopf und Härtel in 1911. It is now known that the piece was the work of Friedrich Witt (born the same year as Beethoven).\n\nStein thought it was quite likely an early work by Beethoven and pointed out some stylistic similarities in the preface to the score. From each of the four movements he singled out a few passages he considered especially Beethoven-like. Stein's belief in Beethoven's authorship was strengthened by the fact that Beethoven's letters show that prior to writing his own Symphony No. 1 he tried to write a C major symphony with Joseph Haydn's Symphony No. 97 as a model, and it is easy to find parallels between the Jena Symphony and Haydn's No. 97.\n\nWhen H. C. Robbins Landon found another copy of the work at the archives of Göttweig Abbey with Witt's name on it, he convinced most other scholars that the work was in fact by Witt. Ralph Leavis, for example, condemned the work as \"a piece of plagiarism, put together almost with scissors and paste from reminiscences of Haydn.\"\n\nIn four movements, the symphony is scored for flute, 2 oboes, 2 bassoons, 2 horns in C, 2 trumpets in C, timpani and strings.\n\nThe first movement begins with an Adagio introduction of 20 measures. A sonata form movement follows with a mostly triadic first subject group\n\nand a more dance-like second subject group.\n\nThe exposition has a repeat (not always followed in performance). The development of just 30 measures ends with a crescendo leading directly to the recapitulation.\n\nThe second movement in F major has a central section in F minor.\n\nThe timpano in C is used in this movement (the timpani were set to C and G for the first movement and are not changed in the course of work).\n\nThe third movement is a Minuet with Trio.\n\nThe fourth movement begins piano.\n\nThe handling of the winds in this movement led some scholars to believe (before Robbins Landon's discovery) that perhaps this movement was in fact written by Beethoven while the rest was written by an unknown composer.\n\nThe Jena Symphony has been recorded on:\n\n"}
{"id": "52004360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52004360", "title": "Josep Palomero", "text": "Josep Palomero\n\nJosep Palomero i Almela (Borriana, 1953) is a Valencian linguist and vice-president of the Valencian Language Academy.\n\nHe has a degree in Spanish Philology in the Autonomous University of Barcelona (1976). In 2016 be got his doctorate in the Jaume I University of Castelló with a doctoral dissertation whose title was “Estudi biogràfic i literari d’Artur Perucho Badia. Comunicació i societat en la primera meitat del segle xx” (Biographical and literary research about Artur Perucho Badía. Communication and society in the first half of the XXth century). He has been high school teacher of Spanish language and literature (1977-1985) and of Valencian language and literature (1985-2013). He is member of the Valencian Language Academy, of the Association of Catalan-language writers, of the \"International Association of Catalan Language and Literature\", of the PEN International, of the Spanish Society of Authors and Publishers and of the \"Spanish Center of Reprographical Rights\".\n\nPalomero has combined the job of teacher for high school students, his political career in his village, some positions during some time in the Education Department of the Generalitat Valenciana (Valencian regional government), with his literary tasks, almost always in Catalan language. He has gotten several literary awards. The following ones can be pointed out: \"Jordi de Sant Jordi\" award for poetry (1980) and \"Eduard Escalante\" for theater (2001) (both from the \"Ciutat de València\" awards), \"Tirant lo Blanc\" award for teenagers literature (1982), \"València\" award for Novel (1983), Prize of the Critics of the Valencian Writers (1994), \"Ciutat d'Alzira\" award for Novel (1996).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5991503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5991503", "title": "Kom language", "text": "Kom language\n\nThe Kom language, \"Itaŋikom\", is the language spoken by the Kom people of Cameroon. Shultz 1997a and Shultz 1997b (available online) contain a comprehensive description of the language's grammar.\n\nKom is a tonal language with three tones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33620352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33620352", "title": "Kunda language", "text": "Kunda language\n\nKunda (\"Chikunda\") is a Bantu language of Zimbabwe and Zambia, with a few thousand speakers in Mozambique.\n\nThere is an extinct pidgin Chikunda once used for trade.\n"}
{"id": "25651584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25651584", "title": "Laz grammar", "text": "Laz grammar\n\nLaz is a Kartvelian language. It is sometimes considered as a southern dialect of Zan languages, the northern dialect being the Mingrelian language.\n\nToday, the area where Laz is spoken stretches from the village Sarpi of Khelvachauri district in Georgia to the village Kemer of Rize province in Turkey. Laz is spoken also in Western Turkey in the villages created by Laz muhajirs in 1877-1878. In Georgia, out of Sarpi, the Laz language islets were also in Abkhazia, but the fate of them is obscure at present.\n\nLaz is divided into three dialects: Khopa-Chkhala, Vitze-Arkabe and Atina-Artasheni. Dialectical classification is mainly conditioned by phonetic characteristics. More specifically, the crucial point is the reflexes of the Kartvelian phoneme , which is maintained only in the Khopa-Chkhala dialect but has different reflections in Vitze-Arkabe and Atina-Artasheni dialects (see below).\n\nLaz vowel inventory consists of five sounds: \"a\", \"e\", \"i\", \"o\", \"u\".\n\nThe consonant inventory of Laz varies among the dialects. A full set of sounds is present in the Khopa-Chkhala dialect, while the Vitze-Arkabe and Atina-Artasheni dialects lost glottalized uvular \"q\".\n\nGlottalized uvular \"q\" is preserved only in the Khopa-Chkhala dialect before the vowels and the consonants \"v\" and \"l\". This sound is also evidenced after glottalized stops and affricates in several words, such as \"p̌qorop\" (I love smb./sth.); \"ǩqorop\" (I love you); \"t̆qubi\" (twins), \"ǯqv-/ǯqvin-\" (to reconcile); \"ç̌qint̆i\" (fresh-soft and unripe). But in the most of cases \"*t̆q → t̆ǩ\"; \"*ǯq → ǯǩ\"; \"*ç̌q → ç̌ǩ\".\n\nIn the Vitze-Arkabe dialect, in the neighborhood of consonants \"*q → ǩ\" (exception is the verb \"ovapu ← *oqvapu\" \"to be\"). In the word-initial prevocalic and in the intervocalic positions \"*q → ∅\".\n\nIn Atina-Artasheni dialect:\n\nThe most common types are:\n\nIn some morphological contexts featuring two consonants \"n\" split only with a vowel, the former can be deleted. \"miqonun → miqoun\" (I have {an animate object}), \"iqvasinon → iqvasion\" (s/he will be), \"mulunan → *muluan → mulvan\" (they are coming).\n\nAnother dissimilation, presumably sporadic, occurs in \"deǩiǩe → deiǩe\" (minute); note also that the Arabic source of this word دقيقة \"daqīqa\" contains a uvular , and as above uvulars are unstable in Laz.\n\nThis process is evidenced in the Khopa-Chkhala and Vitze-Arkabe dialects, where in intervocalic position facultatively \"r → y → ∅\".\n\nIn the Atina-Artasheni dialect, the velars followed by the front vowels \"e\" and \"i\" and the glide \"y\" transform to alveolar affricates:\n\nLaz is written in a Georgian script or in the Latin script (as used in Turkish, but with specific Laz extensions).\n\nLaz has eight grammatical cases: nominative, ergative, dative, genitive, lative, ablative and almost extinct adverbial.\n\nAs in other South Caucasian languages, Laz distinguishes two classes of nouns and classifies objects as:\n\n\nThe Laz numerals are near identical to their Megrelian equivalents with minor phonetic differences. The number system is vigesimal like in Georgian.\n\nAlmost all basic Laz cardinal numbers stem from the Proto-Kartvelian language, except \"ar(t)\" (one) and \"eči\" (twenty), which are reconstructed only for the Karto-Zan chronological level, having regular phonetical reflexes in Zan (Megrelo-Laz) and Georgian. The numeral \"šilya\" (thousand) is a Pontic Greek loanword and is more commonly used than original Laz \"vitoši\".\n\nOrdinal numbers in Laz are produced with the circumfix \"ma-...-a\", which, in contrast with Megrelian, may be extended with suffix \"-n\". The circumfix \"ma-...-a\" originates from Proto-Kartvelian and has regular phonetical equivalents in Georgian (\"me-...-e\") and Svan (\"me-...-e\")\n\nThe fractional numbers' derivation rule in Laz and Megrelian is akin to Old Georgian and Svan.\n\nLaz verbs are inflected for seven categories: person, number, version, tense, mood, aspect and voice.\n\nIn Laz, like Megrelian, Georgian and Svan, verbs can be unipersonal, bipersonal and tripersonal\n\n\nThe person may be singular or plural.\n\nSubject and object markers in Laz are the same as in Megrelian\n\nIn pre-consonant position, the markers \"v-\" and \"g-\" change phonetically:\n\n\nLike Megrelian, Georgian and Svan, Laz has four types of version marking:\n\nThe maximum number of screeves in Laz is 22. They are grouped in three series. Two screeves (\"future I\" and \"past of future I\") exist only for the verb \"r-\", which serves as a 1st series root for \"oqopumu/ovapu/oyapu\" (to be).\n\nstems: ç̌ar- (to write) and r- (to be: just for \"future I\" and \"past of future I\")\nAccording to oldness these screeves can be grouped in two sets:\n\nClassification of screeves according to oldness\n\nIndicative statement claims that the proposition should be taken as an apparent fact.\n\nThere are two ways to transform an indicative statement into a question:\n\nIndicates a command or request. The aorist form is used when addressing 2nd person (singular/plural) and aoristic optative in all other cases.\n\nExpresses possibility, wish, desire.\n\nIndicates condition in contrary to a fact. For this reason a verbal suffix \"-ǩo\" (At.-Arsh, Vtz.-Ark.) / \"-ǩon/-ǩoni\" (Khop.-Chkh.) is used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "496541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496541", "title": "Line pair", "text": "Line pair\n\nA line pair can be more than one thing.\n\nA line pair in philately is a coil pair of postage stamps bearing an inked line between the two stamps. There are at least two kinds of these:\n\nA line pair in image processing is this: on a test pattern consisting of closely spaced black parallel lines on a white background, a line pair is one black line together with the white space on one side of it. When photographers say \"lines of resolution\", they mean line pairs. In television and video, one line pair equals two TV lines or pixels, of resolution.\n"}
{"id": "9694233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9694233", "title": "Majken Johansson", "text": "Majken Johansson\n\nMajken Johansson (August 7, 1930, Malmö – December 11, 1993) was a Swedish poet, writer and a Salvation Army soldier.\n\nMajken Johansson was born out of wedlock in Malmö, and spent her childhood in foster care with an abusive foster mother. At the age of 9, she was evacuated from Malmö at the outbreak of World War II and lived with relatives in Småland. Despite her difficult childhood she went through school with good grades and managed to get in at the prestigious Lund University, where she graduated. During her tenage and university years she also suffered from alcoholism. In 1956, after a stormy relationship with another woman, which ended with the woman committing suicide, Majken Johansson suffered a life crisis which would lead to her decision to join the Swedish section of the Salvation Army in 1958.\n\nShe began to write in the early 1950s, both socially debating articles in newspapers, and poetry. Her first volume of poetry was the critically acclaimed \"Buskteater\" in 1952. She published 8 volumes of poetry between 1952 and 1989. Her poems are not only concerned with life, love and God, but also on everyday reflections in a very simple and keen way, often with a lot of humor.\n\nHer life partner was the Salvation Army officer and hymn writer Karin Hartman, who in 2002 published \"Bottenglädjen\", a book about Majken Johansson's life.\n\nIn recent years Johansson's poetry has been published in new editions and gained a generation of new readers. She is today regarded as one of Sweden's greatest poets of the mid-20th century, alongside names such as Hjalmar Gullberg and Werner Aspenström. In 1970 she was awarded the Large Prize by \"Samfundet De Nio\". She was also awarded a literary prize by the magazine \"Vi\" in 1958, the \"Sveriges Radios poetry award\" in 1965, the \"Deverthska kulturstiftelsens Forsethpris\" in 1972, and the \"Sydsvenska Dagbladets kulturpris\" in 1975.\n\n"}
{"id": "1650876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1650876", "title": "Maranatha", "text": "Maranatha\n\nMaranatha (Aramaic: either מרנא תא: maranâ thâ' or מרן אתא: maran 'athâ' , Greek: Μαραναθα) is a two-word Aramaic formula occurring only once in the New Testament (\"see Aramaic of Jesus\"). It appears in Didache 10:14, which is part of the Apostolic Fathers' collection. It is transliterated into Greek letters rather than translated and, given the nature of early manuscripts, the lexical difficulty rests in determining just which two Aramaic words constitute the single Greek expression, found at the end of Paul's \"First Epistle to the Corinthians\" (1 Cor 16:22).\n\nIf one chooses to split the two words as מרנא תא (maranâ thâ), a vocative concept with an imperative verb, then it can be translated as a command to the Lord to come. On the other hand, if one decides that the two words מרן אתא (maran 'athâ), a possessive \"Our Lord\" and a perfect/preterite verb \"has come,\" are actually more warranted, then it would be seen as a credal expression. This interpretation, \"Our Lord has come,\" is supported by what appears to be an equivalent of this in the early credal acclamation found in the biblical books of Romans 10:9 and 1 Corinthians 12:3, \"Jesus is Lord.\"\nIn general, the recent interpretation has been to select the command option (\"Come, Lord!\"), changing older decisions to follow the preterite option (\"Our Lord has come\") as found in the ancient Aramaic Peshitta, in the Latin Clementine Vulgate, in the Greek Byzantine texts, maranatha (\"O Lord, come!\" in 1Co 16:22), which was part of the eucharistic dialogue of the early Church. Textus Receptus, critical Greek texts like Westcott and Hort, Tischendorf, Cambridge, etc., and in the English translations like the King James Version, the Finnish Raamattu, etc. \n\nThe NRSV of 1 Cor 16:22 translates the expression as: \"Our Lord, come!\" but notes that it could also be translated as: \"Our Lord has come\"; the NIV translates: \"Come, O Lord\"; the \"Message\" version puts it differently as: \"Make room for the Master!\" ; the NAB notes:\n\nThe 1985 New Jerusalem Bible translates 1 Cor 16:22, \"If there is anyone who does not love the Lord, a curse on such a one. Maran atha.\" In the context of 1 Corinthians, understanding the Greek \"maranatha\" as Aramaic \"Maran atha\" in the preterite sense would provide substantiation for the preceding anathema. That is, one who does not love the Lord is accursed because our Lord has ascended and come unto his throne (e.g., Dan 7:13). It would also substantiate the following prayer for grace from the ascended Lord Jesus, who has come to his throne and then sends the Holy Spirit. \n\nThe last chapter of the Book of Revelation makes use of the same concept as מרנא תא \"marana tha\" by the Greek ἔρχου κύριε Ἰησοῦ (Rev. 22:20 NA28) \"erchou kurie Iesou\", \"Come, Lord Jesus.\"\n\nIn the Catholic Church, the word \"Maranatha\" has also been used as a solemn formula of excommunication (alongside \"anathema\").\n\nBased on the teachings of John Cassian, John Main recommended the recitation of \"Maranatha\" as “the ideal Christian mantra”, meaning “Come Lord”, repeated silently interiorly as four equally stressed syllables \"Ma-ra-na-tha\": “Not only is this one of the most ancient Christian prayers, in the language Jesus spoke, but it also has a harmonic quality that helps to bring the mind to silence. Other words or short phrases could be used but he saw it as important that during the meditation one doesn't think about the meaning or use the imagination.” Other Christian authors and communities cultivate similar practices centred on this recitation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5481040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5481040", "title": "Máire Bhuí Ní Laoghaire", "text": "Máire Bhuí Ní Laoghaire\n\nMáire Bhuí Ní Laoghaire (1774–1849) was an Irish poet.\n\nNí Laoghaire was born in Túirín na nÉan in Uibh Laoghaire (Iveleary), near Ballingeary, County Cork. She was from a family of five sons and three daughters who lived on her father's fifty acre farm. In 1792, she married Séamus de Búrca, a Skibbereen horsetrader and the couple settled on a holding they purchased near Céim an Fhia/Keimaneigh, living in some prosperity. They were widely known for their generosity. By 1847, however, their fortunes declined and they were unable to pay their rent. Mounting debts and their arrest for membership of a secret agrarian organisation led to their eviction. Ní Laoghaire died soon after and was buried in Inchigeelagh.\n\nShe was illiterate, which was unusual for the time, and she learned her trade from the oral tradition. Her poems frequently allude to classical tropes thus indicating her exposure to wider contemporary literary tastes in Munster. but her songs and poems survived via the oral folk tradition of the area, as did compositions by her contemporaries such as Antoine Ó Raifteiri.\n\nHer best-known composition is \"Cath Chéim an Fhia\" (\"The Battle of Keimaneigh\"), which graphically records a fight between the local yeoman militia and the Whiteboys in 1822.\n\n\"Oxford Concise Companion to Irish Literature\", Robert Welsh, 1996. \n\nLesa Ní Mhunghaile, 'Ní Laoghaire, Máire \"Bhuí\"' in \"Dictionary of Irish Biography\".\n"}
{"id": "98778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98778", "title": "Natural-language understanding", "text": "Natural-language understanding\n\nNatural-language understanding (NLU) or natural-language interpretation (NLI) is a subtopic of natural-language processing in artificial intelligence that deals with machine reading comprehension. Natural-language understanding is considered an AI-hard problem.\n\nThere is considerable commercial interest in the field because of its application to automated reasoning, machine translation, question answering, news-gathering, text categorization, voice-activation, archiving, and large-scale content analysis.\n\nNLU is the post-processing of text, after the use of NLP algorithms (identifying parts-of-speech, etc.), that utilizes context from recognition devices (ASR, vision recognition, last conversation, misrecognized words from ASR, personalized profiles, microphone proximity etc.), in all of its forms, to discern meaning of fragmented and run-on sentences to execute an intent from typically voice commands. A NLU has an ontology around particular product vertical that is used to figure out the probability of an intent. A NLU has a defined list of known intents that derives the message payload from designated contextual information recognition sources. The NLU will provide back multiple message outputs to separate services (SW) or resources (HW) from a single derived intent (response to voice command initiator with visual sentence (shown or spoken) and transformed voice command message too different output messages to be consumed for M2M communications and actions).\n\nThe program STUDENT, written in 1964 by Daniel Bobrow for his PhD dissertation at MIT is one of the earliest known attempts at natural-language understanding by a computer. Eight years after John McCarthy coined the term artificial intelligence, Bobrow's dissertation (titled \"Natural Language Input for a Computer Problem Solving System\") showed how a computer could understand simple natural language input to solve algebra word problems.\n\nA year later, in 1965, Joseph Weizenbaum at MIT wrote ELIZA, an interactive program that carried on a dialogue in English on any topic, the most popular being psychotherapy. ELIZA worked by simple parsing and substitution of key words into canned phrases and Weizenbaum sidestepped the problem of giving the program a database of real-world knowledge or a rich lexicon. Yet ELIZA gained surprising popularity as a toy project and can be seen as a very early precursor to current commercial systems such as those used by Ask.com.\n\nIn 1969 Roger Schank at Stanford University introduced the conceptual dependency theory for natural-language understanding. This model, partially influenced by the work of Sydney Lamb, was extensively used by Schank's students at Yale University, such as Robert Wilensky, Wendy Lehnert, and Janet Kolodner.\n\nIn 1970, William A. Woods introduced the augmented transition network (ATN) to represent natural language input. Instead of \"phrase structure rules\" ATNs used an equivalent set of finite state automata that were called recursively. ATNs and their more general format called \"generalized ATNs\" continued to be used for a number of years.\n\nIn 1971 Terry Winograd finished writing SHRDLU for his PhD thesis at MIT. SHRDLU could understand simple English sentences in a restricted world of children's blocks to direct a robotic arm to move items. The successful demonstration of SHRDLU provided significant momentum for continued research in the field. Winograd continued to be a major influence in the field with the publication of his book \"Language as a Cognitive Process\". At Stanford, Winograd would later be the adviser for Larry Page, who co-founded Google.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s the natural language processing group at SRI International continued research and development in the field. A number of commercial efforts based on the research were undertaken, \"e.g.\", in 1982 Gary Hendrix formed Symantec Corporation originally as a company for developing a natural language interface for database queries on personal computers. However, with the advent of mouse driven, graphic user interfaces Symantec changed direction. A number of other commercial efforts were started around the same time, \"e.g.\", Larry R. Harris at the Artificial Intelligence Corporation and Roger Schank and his students at Cognitive Systems corp. In 1983, Michael Dyer developed the BORIS system at Yale which bore similarities to the work of Roger Schank and W. G. Lehnart.\n\nThe third millennium saw the introduction of systems using machine learning for text classification, such as the IBM Watson. However, it is debated how much \"understanding\" such systems demonstrate, \"e.g.\" according to John Searle, Watson did not even understand the questions.\n\nJohn Ball, cognitive scientist and inventor of Patom Theory supports this assessment. Natural language processing has made inroads for applications to support human productivity in service and ecommerce but this has largely been made possible by narrowing the scope of the application. There are thousands of ways to request something in a human language which still defies conventional natural language processing. \"To have a meaningful conversation with machines is only possible when we match every word to the correct meaning based on the meanings of the other words in the sentence – just like a 3-year-old does without guesswork\" Patom Theory\n\nThe umbrella term \"natural-language understanding\" can be applied to a diverse set of computer applications, ranging from small, relatively simple tasks such as short commands issued to robots, to highly complex endeavors such as the full comprehension of newspaper articles or poetry passages. Many real world applications fall between the two extremes, for instance text classification for the automatic analysis of emails and their routing to a suitable department in a corporation does not require in depth understanding of the text, but needs to deal with a much larger vocabulary and more diverse syntax than the management of simple queries to database tables with fixed schemata.\n\nThroughout the years various attempts at processing natural language or \"English-like\" sentences presented to computers have taken place at varying degrees of complexity. Some attempts have not resulted in systems with deep understanding, but have helped overall system usability. For example, Wayne Ratliff originally developed the \"Vulcan\" program with an English-like syntax to mimic the English speaking computer in Star Trek. Vulcan later became the dBase system whose easy-to-use syntax effectively launched the personal computer database industry. Systems with an easy to use or \"English like\" syntax are, however, quite distinct from systems that use a rich lexicon and include an internal representation (often as first order logic) of the semantics of natural language sentences.\n\nHence the breadth and depth of \"understanding\" aimed at by a system determine both the complexity of the system (and the implied challenges) and the types of applications it can deal with. The \"breadth\" of a system is measured by the sizes of its vocabulary and grammar. The \"depth\" is measured by the degree to which its understanding approximates that of a fluent native speaker. At the narrowest and shallowest, \"English-like\" command interpreters require minimal complexity, but have a small range of applications. Narrow but deep systems explore and model mechanisms of understanding, but they still have limited application. Systems that attempt to understand the contents of a document such as a news release beyond simple keyword matching and to judge its suitability for a user are broader and require significant complexity, but they are still somewhat shallow. Systems that are both very broad and very deep are beyond the current state of the art.\n\nRegardless of the approach used, most natural-language-understanding systems share some common components. The system needs a lexicon of the language and a parser and grammar rules to break sentences into an internal representation. The construction of a rich lexicon with a suitable ontology requires significant effort, \"e.g.\", the Wordnet lexicon required many person-years of effort.\n\nThe system also needs a \"semantic theory\" to guide the comprehension. The interpretation capabilities of a language-understanding system depend on the semantic theory it uses. Competing semantic theories of language have specific trade-offs in their suitability as the basis of computer-automated semantic interpretation. These range from \"naive semantics\" or \"stochastic semantic analysis\" to the use of \"pragmatics\" to derive meaning from context.\n\nAdvanced applications of natural-language understanding also attempt to incorporate logical inference within their framework. This is generally achieved by mapping the derived meaning into a set of assertions in predicate logic, then using logical deduction to arrive at conclusions. Therefore, systems based on functional languages such as Lisp need to include a subsystem to represent logical assertions, while logic-oriented systems such as those using the language Prolog generally rely on an extension of the built-in logical representation framework.\n\nThe management of context in natural-language understanding can present special challenges. A large variety of examples and counter examples have resulted in multiple approaches to the formal modeling of context, each with specific strengths and weaknesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "1341369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1341369", "title": "Norm (philosophy)", "text": "Norm (philosophy)\n\nNorms are concepts (sentences) of practical import, oriented to effecting an action, rather than conceptual abstractions that describe, explain, and express. Normative sentences imply \"ought-to\" types of statements and assertions, in distinction to sentences that provide \"is\" types of statements and assertions. Common normative sentences include commands, permissions, and prohibitions; common normative abstract concepts include \"sincerity\", \"justification\", and \"honesty\". A popular account of norms describes them as reasons to take action, to believe, and to feel.\n\nOrders and permissions express norms. Such norm sentences do not describe how the world is, they rather prescribe how the world should be. Imperative sentences are the most obvious way to express norms, but declarative sentences also may be norms, as is the case with laws or 'principles'. Generally, whether an expression is a norm depends on what the sentence intends to assert. For instance, a sentence of the form \"All Ravens are Black\" could on one account be taken as descriptive, in which case an instance of a white raven would contradict it, or alternatively \"All Ravens are Black\" could be interpreted as a norm, in which case it stands as a principle and definition, so 'a white raven' would then not be a raven.\n\nThose norms purporting to create obligations (or duties) and permissions are called \"deontic norms\" (see also deontic logic). The concept of deontic norm is already an extension of a previous concept of norm, which would only include imperatives, that is, norms purporting to create duties. The understanding that permissions are norms in the same way was an important step in ethics and philosophy of law.\n\nIn addition to deontic norms, many other varieties have been identified. For instance, some constitutions establish the national anthem. These norms do not directly create any duty or permission. They create a \"national symbol\". Other norms create nations themselves or political and administrative regions within a nation. The action orientation of such norms is less obvious than in the case of a command or permission, but is essential for understanding the relevance of issuing such norms: When a folk song becomes a \"national anthem\" the meaning of singing one and the same song changes; likewise, when a piece of land becomes an administrative region, this has legal consequences for many activities taking place on that territory; and without these consequences concerning action, the norms would be irrelevant. A more obviously action-oriented variety of such \"constitutive norms\" (as opposed to deontic or \"regulatory norms\") establishes social institutions which give rise to new, previously inexistent types of actions or activities (a standard example is the institution of marriage without which \"getting married\" would not be a feasible action; another is the rules constituting a game: without the norms of soccer, there would not exist such an action as executing an indirect free kick).\n\nAny convention can create a norm, although the relation between both is not settled.\n\nThere is a significant discussion about (legal) norms that give someone the power to create other norms. They are called \"power-conferring norms\" or \"norms of competence\". Some authors argue that they are still deontic norms, while others argue for a close connection between them and institutional facts (see Raz 1975, Ruiter 1993).\n\nLinguistic conventions, for example, the convention in English that \"cat\" means cat or the convention in Portuguese that \"gato\" means cat, are among the most important norms.\n\nGames completely depend on norms. The fundamental norm of many games is the norm establishing who wins and loses. In other games, it is the norm establishing how to score points.\n\nOne major characteristic of norms is that, unlike propositions, they are not descriptively true or false, since norms do not purport to describe anything, but to prescribe, create or change something. Some people say they are \"prescriptively true\" or false. Whereas the truth of a descriptive statement is purportedly based on its correspondence to reality, some philosophers, beginning with Aristotle, assert that the (prescriptive) truth of a prescriptive statement is based on its correspondence to right desire. Other philosophers maintain that norms are ultimately neither true or false, but only successful or unsuccessful (valid or invalid), as their propositional content obtains or not (see also John Searle and speech act).\n\nThere is an important difference between \"norms\" and \"normative propositions\", although they are often expressed by identical sentences. \"You may go out.\" usually expresses a norm if it is uttered by the teacher to one of the students, but it usually expresses a normative proposition if it is uttered to one of the students by one of his or her classmates. Some ethical theories reject that there can be normative propositions, but these are accepted by cognitivism. One can also think of propositional norms; assertions and questions arguably express propositional norms (they set a proposition as asserted or questioned).\n\nAnother purported feature of norms, it is often argued, is that they never regard only natural properties or entities. Norms always bring something artificial, conventional, institutional or \"unworldly\". This might be related to Hume's assertion that it is not possible to derive ought from is and to G.E. Moore's claim that there is a naturalistic fallacy when one tries to analyse \"good\" and \"bad\" in terms of a natural concept. In aesthetics, it has also been argued that it is impossible to derive an aesthetical predicate from a non-aesthetical one. The acceptability of non-natural properties, however, is strongly debated in present-day philosophy. Some authors deny their existence, some others try to reduce them to natural ones, on which the former supervene.\n\nOther thinkers (Adler, 1986) assert that norms can be natural in a different sense than that of \"corresponding to something proceeding from the object of the prescription as a strictly internal source of action\". Rather, those who assert the existence of natural prescriptions say norms can suit a natural \"need\" on the part of the prescribed entity. More to the point, however, is the putting forward of the notion that just as descriptive statements being considered true are conditioned upon certain self-evident descriptive truths suiting the nature of reality (such as: it is impossible for the same thing to be and not be at the same time and in the same manner), a prescriptive truth can suit the nature of the will through the authority of it being based upon self-evident prescriptive truths (such as: one ought to desire what is really good for one and nothing else).\n\nRecent works maintain that normativity has an important role in several different philosophical subjects, not only in ethics and philosophy of law (see Dancy, 2000).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1618414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1618414", "title": "Northern Kurdish", "text": "Northern Kurdish\n\nNorthern Kurdish (, ), also called Kurmanji (, ), is a Kurdish language spoken in southeast Turkey, northwest and northeast Iran, northern Iraq and northern Syria. It is the most widespread language of the Kurdish languages. While Kurdish is generally categorized as one of the Northwestern Iranian languages along with Baluchi, it also shares many traits with Southwestern Iranian languages like Persian, apparently due to longstanding and intense historical contacts, and some authorities have gone so far as to classify Kurmanji as a Southwestern or \"southern\" Iranian language.\n\nNorthern Kurdish is written using the Latin script in Turkey, where most of its speakers live, as well as in Syria. Northern Kurdish is the most widely spoken Kurdish language, being spoken by 80% of all Kurds. The earliest textual record of a Kurdish language dates to the 16th century.\n\nKurmanji is also the ceremonial language of Yazidism. The sacred book \"Mishefa Reş\" (the \"Yazidi Black Book\") and all prayers are written and spoken in Kurmanji. In this context, the Kurmanji language may also be called Ezdiki.\n\nThe vowels /i, a, u/ have long forms, and Kumandji has contrastive vowel length.\nNorthern Kurdish forms a dialect continuum of great variability. Loosely, five dialect areas can be distinguished:\n\nThe most distinctive of these is \"Badînî\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883497", "title": "Oorlams Creole", "text": "Oorlams Creole\n\nOorlams (also: \"Oorlands\", \"Oorlans\") is a dialect of Afrikaans spoken in the Republic of South Africa and Namibia, by the Oorlam people. \n\nIt is considered to be either an Afrikaans-based creole language or a dialect of Afrikaans proper. \n\nOorlams has many elements from Khoi languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "31470665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31470665", "title": "Orya–Tor languages", "text": "Orya–Tor languages\n\nThe Orya–Tor languages are a family of Papuan languages spoken in Indonesia.\n\nThe Tor family is clearly established. Its closest relative appears to be Orya.\n\n\nStephen Wurm (1975) linked Orya and the Tor languages with the Lakes Plain languages, forming a branch of his Trans–New Guinea phylum. Clouse (1997) found no evidence of such a connection. Malcolm Ross (2005) linked them instead with part of another erstwhile branch of TNG in a Tor–Kwerba proposal. \"Glottolog\" accepts only the link with Orya as having been demonstrated.\n\nA purported Wares language is sometimes reported. However, no such language is attested. The Wares people are not known to have a distinct language, and the language of the village of Wares is Mawes.\n\nThe pronouns Ross reconstructs for proto-Orya–Tor are,\n"}
{"id": "2366277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2366277", "title": "Papponymic", "text": "Papponymic\n\nA papponymic is a personal name based on the name of one's grandfather, similar to a patronymic, a name derived from the name of one's father. Papponyms have been common in a number of societies such as Ancient Greece and Ancient Israel. \n\nPapponymy has been frequently practiced in the Alaouite dynasty of Moroccan royalty for centuries, with sons sometimes being named after their great-grandfather, but never after their father. The last six generations of the Alaouite dynasty are: \n\n"}
{"id": "5563011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5563011", "title": "Pas de trois", "text": "Pas de trois\n\nPas de trois is a French term usually referring to a dance in ballet between three people. Typically a \"Pas de trois\" in ballet consists of 5 parts -\n\n\nToday, the most celebrated \"Pas de trois\" in the classical ballet repertory are derived from the works of the great choreographer Marius Petipa. Although the Balletmaster created many \"Pas de trois\" for the near 150 ballets he created throughout his career in Russia, only three survive: the \"Pas de trois des Odalisques\" from his revival of the ballet \"Le Corsaire\" (set to the music of Adolphe Adam and Cesare Pugni, choreographed for 3 women); the \"Paquita Pas de trois\" added to his 1881 revival of the ballet \"Paquita\" (set to the music of Ludwig Minkus and Eduard Deldevez, sometimes referred to as the \"Golden Pas de trois\" or \"Minkus Pas de trois\", and choreographed for 2 women and one man); and the \"Pas de trois\" from the first act of his 1895 revival of the ballet \"Swan Lake\" (choreographed for 2 women and one man).\n\nTypically Petipa fashioned the \"Entrée\" of a \"Pas de trois\" in such a way so that the dancer who performs the first variation exits the stage about 3 quarters of the way through in order to rest and prepare for his or her solo.\n"}
{"id": "9760958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9760958", "title": "Penrhyn language", "text": "Penrhyn language\n\nThe Penrhyn language is a Cook Islands Maori dialectal variant belonging to the Polynesian language family spoken by about 200 people on Penrhyn Island and other islands in Northern Cook Islands. It is considered to be an endangered language as many of its users are shifting to Rarotongan and English.\n\nA, E, H, I, K, M, N, Ng, O, P, R, T, U, V\n\nLong vowels are written with a macron.\n"}
{"id": "722328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=722328", "title": "Police action", "text": "Police action\n\nIn military/security studies and international relations, \"police action\" is a euphemism for a military action undertaken without a formal declaration of war.\n\nSince World War II, formal declarations of war have been rare, especially actions conducted by developed nations in connection with the Cold War. Rather, nations involved in military conflict (especially the major-power nations) sometimes describe the conflict by fighting the war under the auspices of a \"police action\" to show that it is a limited military operation different from total war.\nThe earliest appearance of the phrase was in 1883, referring to attempts by Netherlands forces and English forces to liberate the 28-man crew of the SS \"Nisero\", who were held hostage. The Dutch term \"politionele acties\" (police actions) was used for this. It was also used to imply a formal claim of sovereignty by colonial powers, such as in the military actions of the Netherlands, United Kingdom, and other allies during the Indonesian National Revolution (1945–1949) and the Malayan Emergency (1948–1960).\n\nThe two major Dutch military offensives, of July 1947 and December 1948, during the Indonesian National Revolution were referred to by the Dutch government as the first and second \"police actions\". The 1948 invasion, by India, of Hyderabad State, code named Operation Polo, was referred to as a police action by the government.\n\nIn the early days of the Korean War, President Harry S. Truman referred to the United States response to the North Korean invasion as a \"police action\" under the aegis of the United Nations.\n\nShortly after the secession of Biafra in 1967, the Nigerian military government launched a \"police action\" to retake the secessionist territory beginning the Nigerian civil war.\n\nThe Vietnam War and the Kargil War were undeclared wars and hence are sometimes described as police actions.\n\nThe Soviet–Afghan War was an undeclared war and hence also could be described as a police action, especially since the initial troop deployments into Afghanistan were at the request of the Afghan government.\n\nIn other events, the Congress (of the United States) had not made a formal declaration of war, yet the President, as the commander-in-chief, has claimed authority to send in the armed forces when he deemed necessary, with or without the approval of Congress. The legal legitimacy of each of these actions was based upon declarations such as the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution and Iraq Resolution by Congress and various United Nations resolutions. Nonetheless, Congressional approval has been asserted by means of funding appropriations or other authorizations as well as the contested War Powers Resolution.\n\nPolice actions are authorized specifically by the Security Council under Article 53 (for regional action) or Article 42 (for global action). In both cases, the term used in the Charter text (English) is 'enforcement action'; the term 'police action' is not used.\n\nUse of the term does not appear to have gained currency outside of the limited arena of justification of military action: for example, the U.S. Navy refers to the Korean conflict as the Korean War, and when they refer to police action, they surround the term in quotation marks.\n\nSimilarly, a plaque at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial refers to the Vietnam Conflict as a war, not a police action, even though it was undeclared.\n\nUse of the term \"police action\" is intended to imply either a claim of formal sovereignty or of authority to intervene militarily at a nation's own discretion, typically unilaterally or with a small group of nations. This is often done through the United Nations or by asserting that the military operation is defensive or humanitarian in nature such as the United Nations Stabilisation Mission in Haiti or the Invasion of Grenada.\n\nVeterans often display a high degree of disdain for the term \"police action\", as it somehow implies that their sacrifices were not legitimate and perhaps also that they are not even veterans of a true \"war\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30872100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872100", "title": "Portuguese verb conjugation", "text": "Portuguese verb conjugation\n\nPortuguese verbs display a high degree of inflection. A typical regular verb has over fifty different forms, expressing up to six different grammatical tenses and three moods. Two forms are peculiar to Portuguese within the Romance languages:\n\nIt has also several verbal periphrases.\n\nPortuguese verbs have the following properties.\n\n\nClasses with an asterisk are entirely periphrastic. The passive voice can be constructed in two different ways. The pluperfect and the future of the indicative mood, as well as the conditional form, are often replaced with other verbal constructions or verbal periphrases in the spoken language.\n\nConjugation is demonstrated here with the important irregular verb \"fazer\" \"to do\". The Portuguese names of the tenses (\"tempos\") and moods (\"modos\") are given along with their English translations.\n\nThe periphrastic forms are as follows (\"escrever\", \"to write\"):\n\nThe tenses correspond to:\n\nThe five non-finite forms generally correspond to:\n\nThe moods are used roughly as follows:\n\nFor the Portuguese personal pronouns (which are omitted whenever they can be inferred from the ending of the conjugated verb or the context), see Portuguese personal pronouns and possessives.\nRegular verbs belong to one of three conjugation classes, distinguished by the ending of their infinitive forms (which is also their citation form):\nThe verb \"pôr\" is conventionally placed in the \"second conjugation\" by many authors, since it is derived from Old Portuguese \"poer\" (Latin \"ponere\"). In any event, this is an irregular verb whose conjugation must be learned on its own. Other verbs with infinitives ending in -or, such as \"depor\", \"compor\", and \"propor\" are derivatives of \"pôr\", and are conjugated in the same way.\n\nThe following irregular verbs are used as auxiliary verbs in various periphrastic constructions.\n\nThere are few irregular verbs for these tenses (only \"dizer\", \"fazer\", \"trazer\", and their compounds – also \"haver\", \"ter\", \"ser\", \"ir\", \"pôr\", \"estar\", etc. – for the subjunctive future imperfect). The indicative future imperfect, conditional, and subjunctive future imperfect are formed by adding to the infinitive of the verb the indicative present inflections of the auxiliary verb \"haver\" (dropping the \"h\" and \"av\"), the 2nd/3rd conjugation endings of the preterite, imperfect, and the personal infinitive endings, respectively. Thus, for the majority of verbs, the simple personal infinitive coincides with subjunctive future.\n\nThe affirmative imperative for second person pronouns \"tu\" and \"vós\" is obtained from the present indicative, by deletion of the final \"-s\" (in some cases, an accent mark must be added to the vowel which precedes it). For other persons, and for negative clauses, the present subjunctive takes the role of imperative.\n\nIn the present tense, the stress fluctuates between the root and the termination. As a rule of thumb, the last radical vowel (the one that can be stressed) will retain its original pronunciation when unstressed (atonic) and change into , (subjunctive or indicative 1st pers sing)/ (infinitive), or (subjunctive or indicative 1st pers sing)/ (infinitive) – depending on the vowel in question – in case it is stressed (is in a tonic syllable). Other vowels (\"u\", \"i\") and nasalized sounds will probably stay unchanged.\n\nExample: Consider the conjugation of \"correr\" (analogous to \"comer\", presented above) in the Indicative Present Simple. The first-person singular \"corro\" has in the stressed vowel, while other forms \"corres, corre, correm\" have .\n\nIn Portugal, all verbs with or in the stem vowel alternate similarly ( alternates between in the 1st person singular and elsewhere). In the forms where the stem vowel is unstressed, the is pronounced and the is pronounced in some verbs (e.g. \"comer\") and in others (e.g. \"absorver\", below). The difference is probably due to whether the stem syllable is open (followed by at most one consonant) or closed (followed by at least two consonants).\n\nIn Brazil, the following difference apply:\n\nExample, \"absorver\" \"to absorb\" ( in Portugal, in Brazil).\n\nIt will be conjugated in Portugal as\n,\n,\n\nIn Brazil, it is pronounced approximately as\n,\n,\n. (\"Approximately\" because some dialects don't have the \"i\" sound after b, and some substitute different sounds for the and the final .)\n\nThis also has repercussions in the imperative, for its inflections are constructed from the Indicative Present Simple.\n\n\nManuela Cook (2013) Portuguese Pronouns and Other Forms of Address, from the Past into the Future – Structural, Semantic and Pragmatic Reflections, Ellipsis vol. 11, www.portuguese-apsa.com/ellipsis\n\n"}
{"id": "11237483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11237483", "title": "Proclamation 2714", "text": "Proclamation 2714\n\nPresidential Proclamation 2714 (61 Stat. 1048) was signed by President Harry S. Truman on December 31, 1946, to officially declare the cessation of all hostilities in World War II. Even though the actual combat of the war ended May 8, 1945, in Europe and September 2, 1945, in the Pacific, the state of war was not lifted off of Japan and Germany in order to give a reason for the necessity of occupation troops in these countries. Once the War Crimes Trials were over, the hostilities were seen as over. The signing of Proclamation 2714 is the reason why the U.S. recognizes its World War II veterans as anyone who has served between the dates of December 7, 1941, and \"December 31, 1946\".\n\nThe declarations of war against Japan and Germany in 1941 were officially lifted as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1674710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1674710", "title": "Repression (psychology)", "text": "Repression (psychology)\n\nRepression is the psychological attempt to direct one's own desires and impulses toward pleasurable instincts by excluding them from one's consciousness and holding or subduing them in the unconscious. According to psychoanalytic theory, repression plays a major role in many mental illnesses, and in the psyche of the average person.\n\nRepression is a key concept of psychoanalysis, where it is understood as a defence mechanism that \"ensures that what is unacceptable to the conscious mind, and would if recalled arouse anxiety, is prevented from entering into it.\"\n\nThere has been debate as to whether (or how often) memory repression really occurs and mainstream psychology holds that true memory repression occurs only very rarely. American psychologists began to attempt to study repression in the experimental laboratory around 1930. However, psychoanalysts were at first disinterested in attempts to study repression in laboratory settings, and later came to reject them. Most psychoanalysts concluded that such attempts misrepresented the psychoanalytic concept of repression.\n\nAs Sigmund Freud moved away from hypnosis, and towards urging his patients to remember the past in a conscious state, 'the very difficulty and laboriousness of the process led Freud to a crucial insight'. The intensity of his struggles to get his patients to recall past memories led him to conclude that 'there was some force that prevented them from becoming conscious and compelled them to remain unconscious ... pushed the pathogenetic experiences in question out of consciousness. I gave the name of \"repression\" to this hypothetical process'.\n\nFreud would later call the theory of repression \"the corner-stone on which the whole structure of psychoanalysis rests\" (\"On the History of the Psycho-Analytic Movement\").\n\nFreud developed many of his early concepts with his mentor, Josef Breuer. Moreover, while Freud himself noted that the philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer in 1884 had hinted at a notion of repression (but he had only read him in later life), he did not mention that Johann Friedrich Herbart, psychologist and founder of pedagogy whose ideas were very influential in Freud's environment and in particular with Freud's psychiatry teacher Theodor Meynert, had used the term in 1824 in his discussion of unconscious ideas competing to get into consciousness.\n\nFreud considered that there was 'reason to assume that there is a \"primal repression\", a first phase of repression, which consists in the psychical (ideational) representative of the instinct being denied entrance into the conscious', as well as a 'second stage of repression, \"repression proper\", which affects mental derivatives of the repressed representative: distinguished what he called a first stage of \"'primal\" repression' from 'the case of repression proper (\"after-pressure\").'\n\nIn the primary repression phase, 'it is highly probable that the immediate precipitating causes of primal repressions are quantitative factors such as ... the earliest outbreaks of anxiety, which are of a very intense kind'. The child realizes that acting on some desires may bring anxiety. This anxiety leads to repression of the desire.\n\nWhen it is internalized, the threat of punishment related to this form of anxiety becomes the superego, which intercedes against the desires of the id (which works on the basis of the pleasure principle). Freud speculated that 'it is perhaps the emergence of the super-ego which provides the line of demarcation between primal repression and after-pressure'\n\nAbnormal repression, as defined by Freud, or neurotic behavior occurs when repression develops under the influence of the superego and the internalized feelings of anxiety, in ways leading to behavior that is illogical, self-destructive, or anti-social.\n\nA psychotherapist may try to ameliorate this behavior by revealing and re-introducing the repressed aspects of the patient's mental processes to their conscious awareness - 'assuming the role of mediator and peacemaker ... to lift the repression'. In favourable circumstances, \"'Repression\" is replaced by a \"condemning judgement\" carried out along the best lines', thereby reducing anxiety over the impulses involved.\n\nThe philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre challenged Freud's theory by maintaining that there is no \"mechanism\" that represses unwanted thoughts. Since \"all consciousness is conscious of itself\" we will be aware of the process of repression, even if skilfully dodging an issue. The philosopher Thomas Baldwin, writing in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\" (1995), stated that Sartre's argument that Freud's theory of repression is internally flawed is based on a misunderstanding of Freud. The philosopher Roger Scruton, writing in \"Sexual Desire\" (1986), argued that Freud's theory of repression disproves the claim, made by Karl Popper and Ernest Nagel, that Freudian theory implies no testable observation and therefore does not have genuine predictive power, since the theory has \"strong empirical content\" and implies testable consequences.\n\nThe psychoanalyst Otto Fenichel stressed that 'if the disappearance of the original aim from consciousness is called repression, every sublimation is a repression (a \"successful\" one: through the new type of discharge, the old one has become superfluous)'.\n\nThe psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan stressed the role of the signifier in repression — 'the primal repressed is a signifier' — examining how the symptom is 'constituted on the basis of primal repression, of the fall, of the \"Unterdrückung\", of the binary signifier ... the necessary fall of this first signifier'.\n\nFamily therapy has explored how familial taboos lead to 'this screening-off that Freud called \"repression\"', emphasising the way that 'keeping part of ourselves out of our awareness is a very \"active\" process ... a deliberate \"hiding\" of some feeling from our family'.\n\nAccording to the psychologist Donald W. MacKinnon and his co-author William F. Dukes, American psychologists began to attempt to study repression in the experimental laboratory around 1930. These psychologists were influenced by an exposition of the concept of repression published by the psychoanalyst Ernest Jones in the \"American Journal of Psychology\" in 1911. Like other psychologists who attempted to submit the claims of psychoanalysis to experimental test, they did not immediately try to develop new techniques for that purpose, instead conducting surveys of the psychological literature to see whether \"experiments undertaken to test other theoretical assertions\" had produced results relevant to assessing psychoanalysis. In 1930, H. Meltzer published a survey of experimental literature on \"the relationships between feeling and memory\" in an attempt to determine the relevance of laboratory findings to \"that aspect of the theory of repression which posits a relationship between hedonic tone and conscious memory.\" However, according to MacKinnon and Dukes, because Meltzer had an inadequate grasp of psychoanalytic writing he misinterpreted Freud's view that the purpose of repression is to avoid \"unpleasure\", taking the term to mean simply something unpleasant, whereas for Freud it actually meant deep-rooted anxiety. Nevertheless, Meltzer pointed out shortcomings in the studies he reviewed, and in MacKinnon and Dukes's view he also \"recognized that most of the investigations which he reviewed had not been designed specifically to test the Freudian theory of repression.\"\n\nIn 1934, the psychologist Saul Rosenzweig and his co-author G. Mason criticized Meltzer, concluding that the studies he reviewed suffered from two basic problems: that the studies \"worked with hedonic tone associated with sensory stimuli unrelated to the theory of repression rather than with conative hedonic tone associated with frustrated striving, which is the only kind of 'unpleasantnesss' which, according to the Freudian theory, leads to repression\" and that they \"failed to develop under laboratory control the experiences which are subsequently to be tested for recall\". In MacKinnon and Dukes's view, psychologists who wanted to study repression in the laboratory \"faced the necessity of becoming clear about the details of the psychoanalytic formulation of repression if their researches were to be adequate tests of the theory\" but soon discovered that \"to grasp clearly even a single psychoanalytic concept was an almost insurmountable task.\" MacKinnon and Dukes attribute this situation to the way in which Freud repeatedly modified his theory \"without ever stating clearly just which of his earlier formulations were to be completely discarded, or if not discarded, how they were to be understood in the light of his more recent assertions.\"\n\nMacKinnon and Dukes write that, while psychoanalysts were at first only disinterested in attempts to study repression in laboratory settings, they later came to reject them. They comment that while \"the psychologists had criticized each other's researches largely on the grounds that their experimental techniques and laboratory controls had not been fully adequate, the psychoanalysts rejected them on the more sweeping grounds that whatever else these researches might be they simply were not investigations of repression.\" They relate that in 1934, when Freud was sent reprints of Rosenzweig's attempts to study repression, he responded with a dismissive letter stating that \"the wealth of reliable observations\" on which psychoanalytic assertions were based made them \"independent of experimental verification.\" In the same letter, Freud concluded that Rosenzweig's studies \"can do no harm.\" MacKinnon and Dukes describe this conclusion of Freud's as a \"first rather casual opinion\", and state that most psychoanalysts eventually adopted a view contrary to that of Freud, becoming convinced that \"such studies could indeed be harmful since they misrepresented what psychoanalysts conceived repression to be.\"\n\nOne of the issues Freud struggled with was the status of the childhood \"memories\" recovered from repression in his therapy. He concluded that \"these scenes from infancy are not always true. Indeed, they are not true in the majority of cases, and in a few of them they are the direct opposite of the historical truth\". Controversy arose in the late 20th century about the status of such \"recovered memories\", particularly of child abuse, with many claiming that Freud had been wrong to ignore the reality of such recovered memories.\n\nWhile accepting \"the realities of child abuse\", the feminist Elaine Showalter considered it important that one \"distinguishes between abuse remembered all along, abuse spontaneously remembered, abuse recovered in therapy, and abuse suggested in therapy\". The memory researcher Elizabeth Loftus, has shown that it is possible to implant false memories in individuals, it is possible to \"come to doubt the validity of therapeutically recovered memories of sexual abuse ... [as] confabulations\". However, criminal prosecutors continue to present them as evidence in legal cases .\n\nThere is debate about the possibility of the repression of psychological trauma. While some evidence suggests that \"adults who have been through overwhelming trauma can suffer a psychic numbing, blocking out memory of or feeling about the catastrophe\", it appears that the trauma more often \"strengthens\" memories due to heightened emotional or physical sensations. (However these sensations may also cause distortions, as human memory in general is filtered both by layers of perception, and by \"appropriate mental schema ... spatio-temporal schemata\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56476", "title": "Rett syndrome", "text": "Rett syndrome\n\nRett syndrome (RTT) is a genetic brain disorder which typically becomes apparent after 6 to 18 months of age in females. Symptoms include problems with language, coordination, and repetitive movements. Often there is slower growth, problems walking, and a smaller head size. Complications can include seizures, scoliosis, and sleeping problems. Those affected, however, may be affected to different degrees.\nRett syndrome is due to a genetic mutation of the MECP2 gene. This gene occurs on the X chromosome. Typically it develops as a new mutation, with less than one percent of cases being inherited from a person's parents. It occurs almost exclusively in girls. Boys who have a similar mutation typically die shortly after birth. Diagnosis is based on symptoms and can be confirmed with genetic testing.\nThere is no known cure for Rett syndrome. Treatment is directed at improving symptoms. Anticonvulsants may be used to help with seizures. Special education, physiotherapy, and braces may also be useful. Many people with the condition live into middle age.\nThe condition affects about 1 in 8,500 females. Andreas Rett, a pediatrician in Vienna, first described the condition in 1966. As his writings were in German, they did not become widely known in the English-speaking world. Bengt Hagberg, a Swedish pediatrician, published an English article in 1983 and named the condition after Rett. In 1999, Lebanese-American physician Huda Zoghbi discovered the mutation that causes the condition.\n\nStage I, called early onset, typically begins between 6 and 18 months of age. This stage is often overlooked because symptoms of the disorder may be somewhat vague, and parents and doctors may not notice the subtle slowing of development at first. The infant may begin to show less eye contact and have reduced interest in toys. There may be delays in gross motor skills such as sitting or crawling. Hand-wringing and decreasing head growth may occur, but not enough to draw attention. This stage usually lasts for a few months but can continue for more than a year.\n\nStage II, or the rapid destructive stage, usually begins between ages 1 and 4 and may last for weeks or months. Its onset may be rapid or gradual as the child loses purposeful hand skills and spoken language. Characteristic hand movements such as wringing, washing, clapping, or tapping, as well as repeatedly moving the hands to the mouth often begin during this stage. The child may hold the hands clasped behind the back or held at the sides, with random touching, grasping, and releasing. The movements continue while the child is awake but disappear during sleep. Breathing irregularities such as episodes of apnea and hyperventilation may occur, although breathing usually improves during sleep. Some girls also display autistic-like symptoms such as loss of social interaction and communication. Walking may be unsteady and initiating motor movements can be difficult. Slowed head growth is usually noticed during this stage.\n\nStage III, or the plateau or pseudo-stationary stage, usually begins between ages 2 and 10 and can last for years. Apraxia, motor problems, and seizures are prominent during this stage. However, there may be improvement in behavior, with less irritability, crying, and autistic-like features. In stage III there may be more interest in the surroundings and alertness, attention span, and communication skills may improve. Many girls remain in this stage for most of their lives.\n\nStage IV, or the late motor deterioration stage, can last for years or decades. Prominent features include reduced mobility, curvature of the spine, and muscle weakness, rigidity, spasticity, and increased muscle tone with abnormal posturing of an arm, leg. Girls who were previously able to walk may stop walking. Cognition, communication, or hand skills generally do not decline in stage IV. Repetitive hand movements may decrease and eye gaze usually improves.\n\nThe signs of Rett syndrome typical form are perfectly identified (e.g. see above).\nIn addition to the classical form of Rett syndrome, several «atypical forms» have been described over the years; the main groups are:\nThe definition itself of the Rett syndrome has been refined over the years: as the atypical forms subsist near to the classical form (Hagberg & Gillberg, 1993), the \"Rett Complex\" terminology has been introduced.\n\nGenetically, Rett syndrome (RTT) is caused by mutations in the gene MECP2 located on the X chromosome (which is involved in transcriptional silencing and epigenetic regulation of methylated DNA), and can arise sporadically or from germline mutations. In less than 10% of RTT cases, mutations in the genes CDKL5 or FOXG1 have also been found to resemble it. Rett syndrome is initially diagnosed by clinical observation, but the diagnosis is definitive when there is a genetic defect in the MECP2 gene. In some very rare cases, no known mutated gene can be found; possibly due to changes in MECP2 that are not identified by presently used techniques or mutations in other genes that may result in clinical similarities.\n\nIt has been argued that Rett syndrome is in fact a neurodevelopmental condition as opposed to a neurodegenerative condition. One piece of evidence for this is that mice with induced Rett Syndrome show no neuronal death, and some studies have suggested that their phenotypes can be partially rescued by adding functional MECP2 gene back when they are adults. This information has also helped lead to further studies aiming to treat the disorder.\n\nIn at least 95% of Rett syndrome cases, the cause is a \"de novo\" mutation in the child. That is, it is not inherited from either parent. Parents are generally genotypically normal, without a MECP2 mutation.\n\nIn cases of the sporadic form of RTT, the mutated MECP2 is thought to derive almost exclusively from a de novo mutation on the male copy of the X chromosome. It is not yet known what causes the sperm to mutate, and such mutations are rare.\n\nIt can also be inherited from phenotypically normal mothers who have a germline mutation in the gene encoding \"methyl-CpG-binding protein-2\", MeCP2. In these cases, inheritance follows an X-linked dominant pattern and is seen almost exclusively in females, as most males die \"in utero\" or shortly after birth. MECP2 is found near the end of the long arm of the X chromosome at Xq28. An atypical form of RTT, characterized by infantile spasms or early onset epilepsy, can also be caused by a mutation to the gene encoding \"cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5\" (CDKL5). Rett syndrome affects one in every 12,500 female live births by age 12 years.\n\nBrain levels of norepinephrine are lower in people with Rett syndrome (reviewed in). The genetic loss of \"MECP2\" changes the properties of cells in the locus coeruleus, the exclusive source of noradrenergic innervation to the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. These changes include hyperexcitability and decreased functioning of its noradrenergic innervation. Moreover, a reduction of the tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) mRNA level, the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis, was detected in the whole pons of \"MECP2\"-null male as well as in adult heterozygous (\"MECP2\"+/-) female mice. Using immunoquantitative techniques, a decrease of Th protein staining level, number of locus coeruleus TH-expressing neurons and density of dendritic arborization surrounding the structure was shown in symptomatic \"MeCP2\"-deficient mice. However, locus coeruleus cells are not dying, but are more likely losing their fully mature phenotype, since no apoptotic neurons in the pons were detected.\n\nResearchers have concluded that \"Because these neurons are a pivotal source of norepinephrine throughout the brainstem and forebrain and are involved in the regulation of diverse functions disrupted in Rett syndrome, such as respiration and cognition, we hypothesize that the locus coeruleus is a critical site at which loss of \"MECP2\" results in CNS dysfunction.\" The restoration of normal locus coeruleus function may therefore be of potential therapeutic value in the treatment of Rett syndrome.\n\nThe majority of dopamine in the mammalian brain is synthesized by nuclei located in the mesencephalon. The substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the retrorubral field (RRF) contains dopaminergic neurons expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (Th, i.e. the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis).\n\nThe nigro-striatal pathway originates from SNpc and irradiate its principal rostral target, the Caudate-Putamen (CPu) through the median forebrain bundle (MFB). This connection is involved in the tight modulation of motor strategies computed by a cortico-basal ganglia- thalamo-cortical loop.\n\nIndeed, based on the canonical anatomofunctional model of basal ganglia, nigrostriatal dopamine is able to modulate the motor loop by acting on dopaminergic receptors located on striatal GABAergic medium spiny neurons.\n\nDysregulation of the nigrostriatal pathway is causative from Parkinson disease (PD) in humans. Toxic and/or genetic ablation of SNpc neurons produces experimental parkinsonism in mice and primates. The common features of PD and PD animal models are motor impairments (hypotonia, bradykinesia, hypokinesia).\n\nRTT pathology, in some aspects, overlaps the motor phenotype observed in PD patients. Several neuropathological studies on postmortem brain samples argued for an SNpc alteration evidenced by neuromelanin hypopigmentation, reduction in the structure area, and even controversial, signs of apoptosis. In parallel, an hypometabolism was underlined by a reduction of several catecholamines (dopamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline) and their principal metabolic by-products. Mouse models of RTT are available and the most studied are constitutively deleted \"Mecp2\" mice developed by Adrian Bird or Rudolf Jaenisch laboratories.\n\nIn accordance with the motor spectrum of the RTT phenotype, \"Mecp2\"-null mice show motor abnormalities from postnatal day 30 that worsen until death. These models offer a crucial substrate to elucidate the molecular and neuroanatomical correlates of an \"MeCP2\"-deficiency. Recently (2008), it was shown that the conditional deletion of \"Mecp2\" in catecholaminergic neurons (by crossing of Th-Cre mice with loxP-flanked \"Mecp2\" ones) recapitulates a motor symptomatology, it was further documented that brain levels of Th in mice lacking \"MeCP2\" in catecholaminergic neurons only are reduced, participating to the motor phenotype.\n\nHowever, the most studied model for the evaluation of therapeutics is the \"Mecp2\"-null mouse (totally devoid of \"MeCP2\"). In this context, a reduction in the number and soma size of Th-expressing neurons is present from 5 weeks of age and is accompanied by a decrease of Th immunoreativity in the caudate-putamen, the principal target of dopaminergic neurons arising from the SNpc. Moreover, a neurochemical analysis of dopaminergic contents in microdissected midbrain and striatal areas revealed a reduction of dopamine at five and nine weeks of age. It is noteworthy that later on (at nine weeks), the morphological parameters remain altered but not worsen, whereas the phenotype progresses and behavioral deficits are more severe. The amount of fully activated Th (Serine40-phosphorylated isoform) in neurons that remain in the SNpc is mildly affected at 5 weeks but severely impaired by 9 weeks. Finally, using a chronic and oral L-Dopa treatment on \"MeCP2\"-deficient mice authors reported an amelioration of some of the motor deficits previously identified. Altogether, these results argue for an alteration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway in \"MeCP2\"-deficient animals as a contributor of the neuromotor deficits.\n\nThere is an association of the disease with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF).\n\nAn has been published.\n\nPrior to the discovery of a genetic cause, Rett syndrome had been designated as a pervasive developmental disorder by the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM), together with the autism spectrum disorders. Some argued against this conclusive assignment because RTT resembles non-autistic disorders such as fragile X syndrome, tuberous sclerosis, or Down syndrome that also exhibit autistic features.\nAfter research proved the molecular mechanism, in 2013 the DSM-5 removed the syndrome altogether from classification as a mental disorder.\n\nRett syndrome diagnosis involves close observation of the child's growth and development to observe any abnormalities in regards to developmental milestones. A diagnosis is considered when decreased head growth is observed. Conditions with similar symptoms must first be ruled out.\n\nThere is a certain criteria that must be met for the diagnosis. A blood test can rule in or rule out the presence of the MECP2 mutation, however, this mutation is present in other conditions as well.\n\nFor a classic diagnosis, all four criteria for ruling in a diagnosis must be met, as well as the two criteria for ruling out a diagnosis. A period of symptom regression followed by recovery or symptom stabilization must also occur. Supportive criteria may also be present, but are not required for diagnosis. For an atypical or variant diagnosis, at least two of the four criteria for ruling in the diagnosis must be met, as well as five of the eleven supportive criteria. A period of symptom regression followed by recovery or symptom stabilization must also occur. Children are often misdiagnosed as having autism, cerebral palsy, or another form of developmental delay. A positive test for the MECP2 mutation is not enough to make a diagnosis.\n\nRuling in\nRuling out\n\nSupportive criteria\n\nSigns of Rett syndrome that are similar to autism:\nSigns of Rett syndrome that are also present in cerebral palsy (regression of the type seen in Rett syndrome would be unusual in cerebral palsy; this confusion could rarely be made):\n\nCurrently there is no cure for Rett syndrome. Treatment is directed towards improving function and addressing symptoms throughout life. A multi-disciplinary team approach is typically used to treat the person throughout life. This team may include primary care physician, physical therapist, occupational therapist, speech-language pathologist, nutritionist, and support services in academic and occupational settings.\n\nTreatment of Rett syndrome includes:\n\nBecause of the increased risk of sudden cardiac death, when long QT syndrome is found on an annual screening EKG it is treated with an anti-arrhythmic such as a beta-blocker. There is some evidence that phenytoin may be more effective than a beta-blocker.\n\nMales with pathogenic \"MECP2\" mutations usually die within the first 2 years from severe encephalopathy, unless they have an extra X chromosome (often described as Klinefelter syndrome), or have somatic mosaicism.\n\nMale fetuses with the disorder rarely survive to term. Because the disease-causing gene is located on the X chromosome, a female born with an MECP2 mutation on her X chromosome has another X chromosome with an ostensibly normal copy of the same gene, while a male with the mutation on his X chromosome has no other X chromosome, only a Y chromosome; thus, he has no normal gene. Without a normal gene to provide normal proteins in addition to the abnormal proteins caused by a MECP2 mutation, the XY karyotype male fetus is unable to slow the development of the disease, hence the failure of many male fetuses with a MECP2 mutation to survive to term.\n\nFemales with a MECP2 mutation, however, have a non-mutant chromosome that provides them enough normal protein to survive longer. Research shows that males with Rett syndrome may result from Klinefelter's syndrome, in which the male has an XXY karyotype. Thus, a non-mutant \"MECP2\" gene is necessary for a Rett's-affected embryo to survive in most cases, and the embryo, male or female, must have another X chromosome.\n\nThere have, however, been several cases of 46,XY karyotype males with a MECP2 mutation (associated with classical Rett syndrome in females) carried to term, who were affected by neonatal encephalopathy and died before 2 years of age. The incidence of Rett syndrome in males is unknown, partly owing to the low survival of male fetuses with the Rett syndrome-associated MECP2 mutations, and partly to differences between signs caused by MECP2 mutations and those caused by Rett's.\n\nFemales can live up to 40 years or more. Laboratory studies on Rett syndrome may show abnormalities such as:\n\nA high proportion of deaths are abrupt, but most have no identifiable cause; in some instances death is the result most likely of:\n"}
{"id": "42034632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42034632", "title": "Rudolf Rocker", "text": "Rudolf Rocker\n\nJohann Rudolf Rocker (March 25, 1873 – September 19, 1958) was an anarchist writer and activist. Though often described as an anarcho-syndicalist, he was a self-professed anarchist without adjectives, believing that anarchist schools of thought represented \"only different methods of economy\" and that the first objective for anarchists was \"to secure the personal and social freedom of men\".\n\nRudolf Rocker was born to the lithographer Georg Philipp Rocker (1845-1877) and his wife Anna Margaretha née Naumann (1869-1887, daughter of Heinrich Naumann) as one of their four children, in Mainz, Hesse (now Rhineland-Palatinate), Germany, on March 25, 1873. (His siblings were Philipp, 1870-1873; Catharina Barbara, 20 March 1870 – 3 April 1870; and Friedrich, b. 1877.) This Catholic, yet not particularly devout, family had a democratic and anti-Prussian tradition dating back to Rocker's grandfather, who participated in the March Revolution of 1848. However, Georg Philipp died just four years after Rocker's birth. After that, the family managed to evade poverty, only through the massive support by his mother's family. Rocker's uncle and godfather Carl Rudolf Naumann, a long-time member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), became a substitute for his dead parents and a role model, who directed the boy's intellectual development. Rocker was disgusted by his schoolteacher's authoritarian methods, calling the man a \"heartless despot\". He was, therefore, a poor student.\n\nRocker's father died in 1877. In October 1884, the Rocker household was joined by his mother's new husband Ludwig Baumgartner. This marriage presented Rudolf with a half brother, Ernest Ludwig Heinrich Baumgartner, with whom Rocker did not maintain close contact. Rocker was shocked once again as his mother died in February 1887. After his stepfather remarried soon thereafter, Rocker was put into an orphanage.\n\nDisgusted by the unconditional obedience demanded by the Catholic orphanage and drawn by the prospect of adventure, Rocker ran away from the orphanage twice. The first time he just wandered around in the woods around Mainz with occasional visits to the city to forage for food and was retrieved after three nights. The second time, which was at the age of fourteen and a reaction to the orphanage wanting him to be apprenticed as a tinsmith, he worked as a cabin-boy for Köln-Düsseldorfer Dampfschiffahrtsgesellschaft. He enjoyed leaving his hometown and traveling to places like Rotterdam. After he returned, he started an apprenticeship to become a typographer like his uncle Carl.\n\nCarl also had a substantial library consisting of socialist literature of all colors. Rocker was particularly impressed by the writings of , a federalist and opponent of Bismarck's centralized German Empire; Eugen Dühring, an anti-Marxist socialist, whose theories had some anarchist aspects; novels like Victor Hugo's \"Les Misérables\" and Edward Bellamy's \"Looking Backward\"; as well as the traditional socialist literature such as Karl Marx's \"Capital\" and Ferdinand Lasalle and August Bebel's writings. Rocker became a socialist and regularly discussed his ideas with others. His employer became the first person he converted to socialism.\n\nUnder the influence of his uncle, he joined the SPD and became active in the typographers' labor union in Mainz. He volunteered in the 1890 electoral campaign, which had to be organized in semi-clandestinity because of continuing government repression, helping the SPD candidate retake the seat for the district Mainz-Oppenheim in the \"Reichstag\". Because the seat was heavily contested, important SPD figures like August Bebel, Wilhelm Liebknecht, Georg von Vollmar, and Paul Singer visited the town to help Jöst and Rocker had a chance to see them speak.\n\nIn 1890, there was a major debate in the SPD about the tactics it would choose after the lifting of the Anti-Socialist Laws. A radical oppositional wing known as \"Die Jungen\" (\"The Young Ones\") developed. While the party leaders viewed the parliament as a means of social change, \"Die Jungen\" thought it could at best be used to spread the socialist message. Unwilling to wait for the collapse of capitalist society which Marxism predicted, they wanted to start a revolution as soon as possible. Although this wing was strongest in Berlin, Magdeburg, and Dresden, it also had a few adherents in Mainz, among them Rudolf Rocker. In May 1890, he started a reading circle, named \"Freiheit\" (\"Freedom\"), to study theoretical topics more intensively. After Rocker criticized Jöst and refused to retract his statements, he was expelled from the party. The same would happen to the rest of \"Die Jungen\" in October 1891. Nonetheless, he remained active and even gained influence in the socialist labor movement in Mainz. Although he had already encountered anarchist ideas as a result of his contacts to \"Die Jungen\" in Berlin, his conversion to anarchism did not take place until the International Socialist Congress in Brussels in August 1891. He was heavily disappointed by the discussions at the congress, as it, especially the German delegates, refused to explicitly denounce militarism. He was rather impressed by the Dutch socialist and later anarchist Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis, who attacked Liebknecht for his lack of militancy. Rocker got to know Karl Höfer, a German active in smuggling anarchist literature from Belgium to Germany. Höfer gave him Bakunin's \"God and the State\" and Kropotkin's \"Anarchist Morality\", two of the most influential anarchist works, as well as the newspaper \"Autonomie\".\n\nRocker became convinced that the source of political institutions is an irrational belief in a higher authority, as Bakunin claimed in \"God and the State\". However, Rocker rejected the Russian's rejection of theoretical propaganda and his claim that only revolutions can bring about change. Nevertheless, he was very much attracted by Bakunin's style, marked by pathos, emotion, and enthusiasm, designed to give the reader an impression of the heat of revolutionary moments. Rocker even attempted to emulate this style in his speeches, but was not very convincing. Kropotkin's anarcho-communist writings, on the other hand, were structured logically and contained an elaborate description of the future anarchist society. The work's basic premise, that an individual is entitled to receive the basic means of living from the community independently of his or her personal contributions, impressed Rocker.\n\nIn 1891, all \"Die Jungen\" were either expelled from the SPD or left voluntarily. They then founded the Union of Independent Socialists (VUS). Rocker became a member and founded a local section in Mainz, mostly active in distributing anarchist literature smuggled in from Belgium or the Netherlands in the city. He was a regular speaker at labor union meetings. On December 18, 1892, he spoke at a meeting of unemployed workers. Impressed by Rocker's speech, the speaker that followed Rocker, who was not from Mainz and therefore did not know at what point the police would intervene, advised the unemployed to take from the rich, rather to starve. The meeting was then dissolved by the police. The speaker was arrested, while Rocker barely escaped. He decided to flee Germany to Paris via Frankfurt. He had, however, already been toying with the idea of leaving the country, in order to learn new languages, get to know anarchist groups abroad, and, above all, to escape conscription.\n\nIn Paris, he first came into contact with Jewish anarchism. In Spring 1893, he was invited to meeting of Jewish anarchists, which he attended and was impressed by. Though neither a Jew by birth nor by belief, he ended up frequenting the group's meeting, eventually holding lectures himself. Solomon Rappaport, later known as S. Ansky, allowed Rocker to live with him, as they were both typographers and could share Rappaport's tools. During this period, Rocker also first came into contact with the blending of anarchist and syndicalist ideas represented by the General Confederation of Labor (CGT), which would influence him in the long term. In 1895, as a result of the anti-anarchist sentiment in France, Rocker traveled to London to visit the German consulate and examine the possibility of his returning to Germany but was told he would be imprisoned upon return.\n\nRocker decided to stay in London. He got a job as the librarian of the Communist Workers' Educational Union, where he got to know Louise Michel and Errico Malatesta, two influential anarchists. Inspired to visit the quarter after reading about \"Darkest London\" in the works of John Henry Mackay, he was appalled by the poverty he witnessed in the predominantly Jewish East End. He joined the Jewish anarchist \"Arbeter Fraint\" group he had obtained information about from his French comrades, quickly becoming a regular lecturer at its meetings. There, he met his lifelong companion Milly Witkop, a Ukrainian-born Jew who had fled to London in 1894. In May 1897, having lost his job and with little chance of re-employment, Rocker was persuaded by a friend to move to New York. Witkop agreed to accompany him and they arrived on the 29th. They were, however, not admitted into the country, because they were not legally married. They refused to formalize their relationship. Rocker explained that their \"bond is one of free agreement between my wife and myself. It is a purely private matter that only concerns ourselves, and it needs no confirmation from the law.\" Witkop added: \"Love is always free. When love ceases to be free it is prostitution.\" The matter received front-page coverage in the national press. The Commissioner-General of Immigration, the former Knights of Labor President Terence V. Powderly, advised the couple to get married to settle the matter, but they refused and were deported back to England on the same ship they had arrived on.\n\nUnable to find employment upon return, Rocker decided to move to Liverpool. A former Whitechapel comrade of his persuaded him to become the editor of a recently founded Yiddish weekly newspaper called \"Dos Fraye Vort\" (\"The Free Word\"), even though he did not speak the language at the time. The newspaper only appeared for eight issues, but it led the \"Arbeter Fraint\" group to re-launch its eponymous newspaper and invite Rocker to return to the capital and take over as its editor.\n\nAlthough it received some funds from Jews in New York, the journal's financial survival was precarious from the start. However, many volunteers helped by selling the paper on street corners and in workshops. During this time, Rocker was especially concerned with combating the influence of Marxism and historical materialism in London's Jewish labor movement. In all, the \"Arbeter Fraint\" published twenty-five essays by Rocker on the topic, the first ever critical examination of Marxism in Yiddish, according to William J. Fishman. \"Arbeter Fraint\"s unsound financial footing also meant Rocker rarely received the small salary promised to him when he took over the journal and he depended financially on Witkop. Despite Rocker's sacrifices, however, the paper was forced to cease publication for lack of funds. In November 1899, the prominent American anarchist Emma Goldman visited London and Rocker met her for the first time. After hearing of the \"Arbeter Fraint\"s situation she held three lectures to raise funds, but that was not enough.\n\nNot wanting to be left without any means of propaganda, Rocker founded the \"Germinal\" in March 1900. Compared to \"Arbeter Fraint\", it was more theoretical, applying anarchist thought to the analysis of literature and philosophy. It represented a maturation of Rocker's thinking towards Kropotkin-ite anarchism and would survive until March 1903. 1902 saw the London Jews being targeted by a wave of anti-alien sentiment, while Rocker was away for a year in Leeds. Upon return in September, he was happy to see the Jewish anarchists had kept the \"Arbeter Fraint\" organization alive. A conference of all Jewish anarchists of the city on December 26 decided for a re-launch of the \"Arbeter Fraint\" newspaper as the organ of all Jewish anarchists in Great Britain and Paris and made Rocker the editor. The first issue appeared on March 20, 1903. Following the Kishinev pogrom in the Russian Empire, Rocker led a demonstration in solidarity with the victims, the largest ever gathering of Jews in London. Afterwards he traveled to Leeds, Glasgow, and Edinburgh to lecture on the topic.\n\nFrom 1904, the Jewish labor and anarchist movements in London reached their \"golden years\", according to William J. Fishman. In 1905, publication of \"Germinal\" resumed, it reached a circulation of 2,500 a year later, while \"Arbeter Fraint\" reached a demand of 5,000 copies. In 1906, the \"Arbeter Fraint\" group finally realized a long-time goal, the establishment of a club for both Jewish and gentile workers. The Workers' Friend Club was founded in a former Methodist church on Jubilee Street. Rocker, by now a very eloquent speaker, became a regular speaker. As a result of the popularity of both the club and \"Germinal\" beyond the anarchist scene, Rocker befriended many prominent non-anarchist Jews in London, among them the Zionist philosopher Ber Borochov.\n\nFrom June 8, 1906, Rocker was involved in a garment workers' strike. Wages and working conditions in the East End were much lower than in the rest of London and tailoring was the most important industry. Rocker was asked by the union leading the strike to become part of the strike committee along with two other \"Arbeter Fraint\" members. He was a regular speaker at the strikers' gatherings. The strike failed, because the strike funds ran out. By July 1, all workers were back in their workshops.\n\nRocker represented the federation at the International Anarchist Congress in Amsterdam in 1907. Errico Malatesta, Alexander Shapiro, and he became the secretaries of the new Anarchist International, but it only lasted until 1911. Also in 1907, his son Fermin was born. In 1909, while visiting France, Rocker denounced the execution of the anarchist pedagogue Francisco Ferrer in Barcelona, leading him to be deported back to England.\n\nIn 1912, Rocker was once again an important figure in a strike by London's garment makers. In late April, 1,500 tailors from the West End, who were more highly skilled and better-paid than those in the East End, started striking. By May, the total number was between 7,000 and 8,000. Since much of the West Enders' work was now being performed in the East End, the tailors' union there, under the influence of the \"Arbeter Fraint\" group, decided to support the strike. Rudolf Rocker on the one hand saw this as a chance for the East End tailors to attack the sweatshop system, but on the other was afraid of an anti-Semitic backlash, should the Jewish workers remain idle. He called for a general strike. His call was not followed, since over seventy percent of the East End tailors were engaged in the ready-made trade, which was not linked with the West End workers' strike. Nonetheless, 13,000 immigrant garment workers from the East End went on strike following a May 8 assembly at which Rocker spoke. Not one worker voted against a strike. Rocker became a member of the strike committee and chairman of the finance sub-committee. He was responsible for collecting money and other necessities for the striking workers. On the side he published the \"Arbeter Fraint\" newspaper on a daily basis to disseminate news about the strike. He spoke at the workers' assemblies and demonstrations. On May 24 a mass meeting was held to discuss the question of whether to settle on a compromise proposed by the employers, which did not entail a closed union shop. A speech by Rocker convinced the workers to continue the strike. By the next morning, all of the workers' demands were met.\n\nRocker opposed both sides in World War I on internationalist grounds. Although most in the United Kingdom and continental Europe expected a short war, Rocker predicted on August 7, 1914 \"a period of mass murder such as the world has never known before\" and attacked the Second International for not opposing the conflict. Rocker with some other \"Arbeter Fraint\" members opened up a soup kitchen without fixed prices to alleviate the further impoverishment that came with the Great War. There was a debate between Kropotkin, who supported the Allies, and Rocker in \"Arbeter Fraint\" in October and November. He called the war \"the contradiction of everything we had fought for\".\n\nShortly after the publication of this statement, on December 2, Rocker was arrested and interned as an enemy alien. This was also the result of the anti-German sentiment in the country. \"Arbeiter Fraynd\" was suppressed in 1915. The Jewish anarchist movement in Britain never fully recovered from these blows.\n\nIn March 1918, Rocker was taken to the Netherlands under an agreement to exchange prisoners through the Red Cross. He stayed at the house of the socialist leader Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis and he recovered from the health problems from which he suffered as a result of his internment in the UK and met up with his wife Milly Witkop and his son Fermin. He returned to Germany in November 1918 upon an invitation from Fritz Kater to join him in Berlin to re-build the Free Association of German Trade Unions (FVdG). The FVdG was a radical labor federation that quit the SPD in 1908 and became increasingly syndicalist and anarchist. During World War I, it had been unable to continue its activities for fear of government repression, but remained in existence as an underground organization.\n\nRocker was opposed to the FVdG's alliance with the communists during and immediately after the November Revolution, as he rejected Marxism, especially the concept of the dictatorship of the proletariat. Soon after arriving in Germany, however, he once again became seriously ill. He started giving public speeches in March 1919, including one at a congress of munitions workers in Erfurt, where he urged them to stop producing war material. During this period the FVdG grew rapidly and the coalition with the communists soon began to crumble. Eventually all syndicalist members of the Communist Party were expelled. From December 27 to December 30, 1919, the twelfth national congress of the FVdG was held in Berlin.\n\nThe organization decided to become the Free Workers' Union of Germany (FAUD) under a new platform, which had been written by Rocker: the \"Prinzipienerklärung des Syndikalismus\" (\"Declaration of Syndicalist Principles\"). It rejected political parties and the dictatorship of the proletariat as bourgeois concepts. The program recognized only decentralized, purely economic, organizations. Although public ownership of land, means of production, and raw materials was advocated, nationalization and the idea of a communist state were rejected. Rocker decried nationalism as the religion of the modern state and opposed violence, championing instead direct action and the education of the workers.\n\nOn Gustav Landauer's death during the Munich Soviet Republic uprising, Rocker took over the work of editing the German publications of Kropotkin's writings. In 1920, the social democratic Defense Minister Gustav Noske started the suppression of the revolutionary left, which led to the imprisonment of Rocker and Fritz Kater. During their mutual detainment, Rocker convinced Kater, who had still held some social democratic ideals, completely of anarchism.\n\nIn the following years, Rocker became one of the most regular writers in the FAUD organ \"Der Syndikalist\". In 1920, the FAUD hosted an international syndicalist conference, which ultimately led to the founding of the International Workers Association (IWA) in December 1922. Augustin Souchy, Alexander Schapiro, and Rocker became the organization's secretaries and Rocker wrote its platform. In 1921, he wrote the pamphlet \"Der Bankrott des russischen Staatskommunismus\" (\"The Bankruptcy of Russian State Communism\") attacking the Soviet Union. He denounced what he considered a massive oppression of individual freedoms and the suppression of anarchists starting with the purge on April 12, 1918. He supported instead the workers who took part in the Kronstadt uprising and the peasant movement led by the anarchist Nestor Makhno, whom he would meet in Berlin in 1923. In 1924, Rocker published a biography of Johann Most called \"Das Leben eines Rebellen\" (\"The Life of a Rebel\"). There are great similarities between the men's vitas. It was Rocker who convinced the anarchist historian Max Nettlau to start publication of his anthology \"Geschichte der Anarchie\" (\"History of Anarchy\") in 1925.\n\nDuring the mid-1920s, the decline of Germany's syndicalist movement started. The FAUD had reached its peak of around 150,000 members in 1921, but then started losing members to both the Communist and the Social Democratic Party. Rocker attributed this loss of membership to the mentality of German workers accustomed to military discipline, accusing the communists of using similar tactics to the Nazis and thus attracting such workers. At first only planning a short book on nationalism, he started work on \"Nationalism and Culture\", which would be published in 1937 and become one of Rocker's best-known works, around 1925. 1925 also saw Rocker visit North America on a lecture tour with a total of 162 appearances. He was encouraged by the anarcho-syndicalist movement he found in the US and Canada.\n\nReturning to Germany in May 1926, he became increasingly worried about the rise of nationalism and fascism. He wrote to Nettlau in 1927: \"Every nationalism begins with a Mazzini, but in its shadow there lurks a Mussolini\". In 1929, Rocker was a co-founder of the \"Gilde freiheitlicher Bücherfreunde\" (Guild of Libertarian Bibliophiles), a publishing house which would release works by Alexander Berkman, William Godwin, Erich Mühsam, and John Henry Mackay. In the same year he went on a lecture tour in Scandinavia and was impressed by the anarcho-syndicalists there. Upon return, he wondered whether Germans were even capable of anarchist thought. In the 1930 elections, the Nazi Party received 18.3% of all votes, a total of 6 million. Rocker was worried: \"Once the Nazis get to power, we'll all go the way of Landauer and Eisner\" (who were killed by reactionaries in the course of the Munich Soviet Republic uprising).\n\nIn 1931, Rocker attended the IWA congress in Madrid and then the unveiling of the Nieuwenhuis memorial in Amsterdam. In 1933, the Nazis came to power. After the Reichstag fire on February 27, Rocker and Witkop decided to leave Germany. As they left they received news of Erich Mühsam's arrest. After his death in July 1934, Rocker would write a pamphlet called \"Der Leidensweg Erich Mühsams\" (\"The Life and Suffering of Erich Mühsam\") about the anarchist's fate. Rocker reached Basel, Switzerland on March 8 by the last train to cross the border without being searched. Two weeks later, Rocker and his wife joined Emma Goldman in St. Tropez, France. There he wrote \"Der Weg ins Dritte Reich\" (\"The Path to the Third Reich\") about the events in Germany, but it would only be published in Spanish.\n\nIn May, Rocker and Witkop moved back to London. There Rocker was welcomed by many of the Jewish anarchists he had lived and fought alongside for many years. He held lectures all over the city. In July, he attended an extraordinary IWA meeting in Paris, which decided to smuggle its organ \"Die Internationale\" into Nazi Germany.\n\nOn August 26, 1933, Rocker with his wife emigrated to New York. There they were reunited with Fermin who had stayed there after accompanying his father on his 1929 lecture tour in the US. The Rocker family moved to live with a sister of Witkop's in Towanda, Pennsylvania where many families with progressive or libertarian socialist views lived. In October, Rocker toured the US and Canada speaking about racism, fascism, dictatorship, socialism in English, Yiddish, and German. He found many of his Jewish comrades from London, who had since emigrated to America, and became a regular writer for \"Freie Arbeiter Stimme\", a Jewish anarchist newspaper. Back in Towanda, in the summer of 1934, Rocker started work on an autobiography, but news of Erich Mühsam's death led him to halt his work. He was working on \"Nationalism and Culture\", when the Spanish Civil War broke out in July 1936 instilling great optimism in Rocker. He published a pamphlet \"The Truth about Spain\" and contributed to \"The Spanish Revolution\", a special fortnightly newspaper published by American anarchists to report on the events in Spain. In 1937, he wrote \"The Tragedy of Spain\", which analyzed the events in greater detail. In September 1937, Rocker and Witkop moved to the libertarian commune Mohegan Colony about from New York City.\n\nIn 1937, \"Nationalism and Culture\", which he had started work on around 1925, was finally published with the help of anarchists from Chicago Rocker had met in 1933. A Spanish edition was released in three volumes in Barcelona, the stronghold of the Spanish anarchists. It would be his best-known work. In the book, Rocker traces the origins of the state back to religion claiming \"that all politics is in the last instance religion\": both enslave their very creator, man; both claim to be the source of cultural progress. He aims to prove the claim that culture and power are essentially antagonistic concepts. He applies this model to human history, analyzing the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, Enlightenment, and modern capitalist society, and to the history of the socialist movement. He concludes by advocating a \"new humanitarian socialism\".\n\nIn 1938, Rocker published a history of anarchist thought, which he traced all the way back to ancient times, under the name \"Anarcho-Syndicalism\". A modified version of the essay would be published in the Philosophical Library series \"European Ideologies\" under the name \"Anarchism and Anarcho-Syndicalism\" in 1949.\n\nIn 1939, Rocker had to undergo a serious operation and was forced to give up lecture tours. However, in the same year, the Rocker Publications Committee was formed by anarchists in Los Angeles to translate and publish Rockers writings. Many of his friends died around this time: Alexander Berkman in 1936, Emma Goldman in 1940, Max Nettlau in 1944; many more were imprisoned in Nazi concentration camps. Although Rocker had opposed his teacher Kropotkin for his support of the Allies during World War I, Rocker argued that the Allied effort in World War II was just, as it would ultimately lead to preservation of libertarian values. Although he viewed every state as a coercive apparatus designed to secure the economic exploitation of the masses, he defended democratic freedoms, which he considered a result of a desire for freedom of the enlightened public. This position was criticized by many American anarchists, who did not support any war.\n\nAfter World War II, an appeal in the \"Freie Arbeiter Stimme\" detailing the plight of German anarchists and called for Americans to support them. By February 1946, the sending of aid parcels to anarchists in Germany was a large-scale operation. In 1947, Rocker published \"Zur Betrachtung der Lage in Deutschland\" (\"Regarding the Portrayal of the Situation in Germany\") about the impossibility of another anarchist movement in Germany. It became the first post-World War II anarchist writing to be distributed in Germany. Rocker thought young Germans were all either totally cynical or inclined to fascism and awaited a new generation to grow up before anarchism could bloom once again in the country. Nevertheless, the Federation of Libertarian Socialists (FFS) was founded in 1947 by former FAUD members. Rocker wrote for its organ, \"Die Freie Gesellschaft\", which survived until 1953. In 1949, Rocker published another well-known work. In \"Pioneers of American Freedom\", a series of essays, he details the history of liberal and anarchist thought in the United States, seeking to debunk the idea that radical thought was foreign to American history and culture and had merely been imported by immigrants. On his eightieth birthday in 1953, a dinner was held in London to honor Rocker. Messages of gratitude were read by the likes of Thomas Mann, Albert Einstein, Herbert Read, and Bertrand Russell.\n\nOn September 10, 1958, Rocker died in the Mohegan Colony.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162986", "title": "Second language", "text": "Second language\n\nA person’s second language or L2 is a language that is not the native language/first language/L1 of the speaker, but is learned by the speaker after his/her native language (usually a foreign language, see below). Additionally, a person’s second language can be explained as the second language in the country the speaker lives in and they may be both used in daily life. For example, Canada has two official languages (English and French) and some citizens speak and use both of them.<br>\nA person’s dominant language, which is the language the speaker uses most or is most comfortable with, is not necessarily to be his/her first language. The second language can also be the dominant one. For example, the Canadian census defines first language for its purposes as \"the first language learned in childhood and still spoken\", recognizing that for some, the earliest language may be lost, a process known as language attrition. This can happen when young children move, with or without their family (because of immigration or international adoption), to a new language environment.<br>\n\nThe distinction between acquiring and learning was made by Stephen Krashen (1982) as part of his Monitor Theory. According to Krashen, the \"acquisition\" of a language is a natural process; whereas \"learning\" a language is a conscious one. In the former, the student needs to partake in natural communicative situations. In the latter, error correction is present, as is the study of grammatical rules isolated from natural language. Not all educators in second language agree to this distinction; however, the study of how a second language is \"learned/acquired\" is referred to as \"second-language acquisition\" (SLA).\n\nResearch in SLA \"...focuses on the developing knowledge and use of a language by children and adults who already know at least one other language... [and] a knowledge of second-language acquisition may help educational policy makers set more realistic goals for programmes for both foreign language courses and the learning of the majority language by minority language children and adults.\" (Spada & Lightbown, p. 115).\n\nSLA has been influenced by both linguistic and psychological theories. One of the dominant linguistic theories hypothesizes that a \"device\" or \"module\" of sorts in the brain contains innate knowledge. Many psychological theories, on the other hand, hypothesize that cognitive mechanisms, responsible for much of human learning, process language.\n\nOther dominant theories and points of research include 2nd language acquisition studies (which examine if L1 findings can be transferred to L2 learning), verbal behaviour (the view that constructed linguistic stimuli can create a desired speech response), morpheme studies, behaviourism, error analysis, stages and order of acquisition, structuralism (approach that looks at how the basic units of language relate to each other according to their common characteristics), 1st language acquisition studies, contrastive analysis (approach where languages were examined in terms of differences and similarities) and inter-language (which describes L2 learners’ language as a rule-governed, dynamic system) (Mitchell, Myles, 2004). \nThese theories have all influenced second-language teaching and pedagogy. There are many different methods of second-language teaching, many of which stem directly from a particular theory. Common methods are the grammar-translation method, the direct method, the audio-lingual method (clearly influenced by audio-lingual research and the behaviourist approach), the Silent Way, Suggestopedia, community language learning, the Total Physical Response method, and the communicative approach (highly influenced by Krashen’s theories) (Doggett, 1994). Some of these approaches are more popular than others, and are viewed to be more effective. Most language teachers do not use one singular style, but will use a mix in their teaching. This provides a more balanced approach to teaching and helps students of a variety of learning styles succeed.\n\nThe defining difference between a first language (L1) and a second language (L2) is the age the person learned the language. For example, linguist Eric Lenneberg used \"second language\" to mean a language consciously acquired or used by its speaker after puberty. In most cases, people never achieve the same level of fluency and comprehension in their second languages as in their first language. These views are closely associated with the critical period hypothesis.\n\nIn acquiring an L2, Hyltenstam (1992) found that around the age of six or seven seemed to be a cut-off point for bilinguals to achieve native-like proficiency. After that age, L2 learners could get \"near-native-like-ness\" but their language would, while consisting of few actual errors, have enough errors to set them apart from the L1 group. The inability of some subjects to achieve native-like proficiency must be seen in relation to the \"age of onset\" (AO). Later, Hyltenstam & Abrahamsson (2003) modified their age cut-offs to argue that after childhood, in general, it becomes more and more difficult to acquire native-like-ness, but that there is no cut-off point in particular.<br>\n\nAs we are learning more and more about the brain, there is a hypothesis that when a child is going through puberty, that is the time that accents \"start\". Before a child goes through puberty, the chemical processes in the brain are more geared towards language and social communication. Whereas after puberty, the ability for learning a language without an accent has been rerouted to function in another area of the brain—most likely in the frontal lobe area promoting cognitive functions, or in the neural system of hormone allocated for reproduction and sexual organ growth.\n\nAs far as the relationship between age and eventual attainment in SLA is concerned, Krashen, Long, and Scarcella, say that people who encounter foreign language in early age, begin natural exposure to second languages and obtain better proficiency than those who learn the second language as an adult. However, when it comes to the relationship between age and rate SLA, “Adults proceed through early stages of syntactic and morphological development faster than children (where time and exposure are held constant)” (Krashen, Long, Scarcella 573). Also, “older children acquire faster than younger children do (again, in early stages of morphological and syntactic development where time and exposure are held constant)” (573). In other words, adults and older children are fast learners when it comes to the initial stage of foreign language education.\n\nGauthier and Genesee (2011) have done a research which mainly focuses on the second language acquisition of internationally adopted children and results show that early experiences of one language of children can affect their ability to acquire a second language, and usually children learn their second language slower and weaker even during the critical period.<br>\n\nAs for the fluency, it is better to do foreign language education at an early age, but being exposed to a foreign language since an early age causes a “weak identification” (Billiet, Maddens and Beerten 241). Such issue leads to a \"double sense of national belonging,\" that makes one not sure of where he or she belongs to because according to Brian A. Jacob, multicultural education affects students' \"relations, attitudes, and behaviors\" (Jacob 364). And as children learn more and more foreign languages, children start to adapt, and get absorbed into the foreign culture that they “undertake to describe themselves in ways that engage with representations others have made” (Pratt 35). Due to such factors, learning foreign languages at an early age may incur one’s perspective of his or her native country.\nAcquiring a second language can be a lifelong learning process for many. Despite persistent efforts, most learners of a second language will never become fully \"native-like\" in it, although with practice considerable fluency can be achieved. However, children by around the age of 5 have more or less mastered their first language with the exception of vocabulary and a few grammatical structures, and the process is relatively very fast because language is a very complex skill. Moreover, if children start to learn a second language when they are 7 years old or younger, they will also be fully fluent with their second language in a faster speed comparing to the speed of learning by adults who start to learn a second language later in their life. <br>\n\nIn the first language, children do not respond to systematic correction. Furthermore, children who have limited input still acquire the first language, which is a significant difference between input and output. Children are exposed to a language environment of errors and lack of correction but they end up having the capacity to figure out the grammatical rules. Error correction does not seem to have a direct influence on learning a second language. Instruction may affect the rate of learning, but the stages remain the same. Adolescents and adults who know the rule are faster than those who do not. <br>\n\nIn the learning of a second language the correction of errors remains a controversial topic with many differing schools of thought. Throughout the last century much advancement has been made in research on the correction of students’ errors. In the 1950s and 60s the viewpoint of the day was that all errors must be corrected at all costs. Little thought went to students’ feelings or self-esteem in regards to this constant correction (Russell, 2009).\n\nIn the 1970s Dulay and Burt’s studies showed that learners acquire grammar forms and structures in a pre-determined, inalterable order, and that teaching or correcting styles would not change this (Russell, 2009).\n\nIn this same decade Terrell (1977) did studies that showed that there were more factors to be considered in the classroom than the cognitive processing of the students (Russell, 2009). He contested that the affective side of students and their self-esteem were equally important to the teaching process (Russell, 2009).\n\nA few years later in the 1980s, the strict grammar and corrective approach of the 1950s became obsolete. Researchers asserted that correction was often unnecessary and that instead of furthering students’ learning it was hindering them (Russell, 2009). The main concern at this time was relieving student stress and creating a warm environment for them. Stephen Krashen was a big proponent in this hands-off approach to error correction (Russell, 2009).\n\nThe 1990s brought back the familiar idea that explicit grammar instruction and error correction was indeed useful for the SLA process. At this time, more research started to be undertaken to determine exactly which kinds of corrections are the most useful for students. In 1998, Lyster concluded that “recasts” (when the teacher repeats a student’s incorrect utterance with the correct version) are not always the most useful because students do not notice the correction (Russell, 2009). His studies in 2002 showed that students learn better when teachers help students recognize and correct their own errors (Russell, 2009). Mackey, Gas and McDonough had similar findings in 2000 and attributed the success of this method to the student’s active participation in the corrective processes.\n\nAccording to Noam Chomsky, children will bridge the gap between input and output by their innate grammar because the input (utterances they hear) is so poor but all children end up having complete knowledge of grammar. Chomsky calls it the Poverty of Stimulus. And second language learners can do this by applying the rules they learn to the sentence-construction, for example. So learners in both their native and second language have knowledge that goes beyond what they have received, so that people can make correct utterances (phrases, sentences, questions, etc) that they have never learned or heard before.<br>\n\nBilingualism has been an advantage to today's world and being bilingual gives the opportunity to understand and communicate with people with different cultural backgrounds. However, a study done by Optiz and Degner in 2012 shows that sequential bilinguals (i.e. learn their L2 after L1) often relate themselves to the emotions more when they perceive these emotions by their first language/native language/L1, but feel less emotional when by their second language even though they know the meaning of words clearly. The emotional distinction between L1 and L2 indicates that the \"effective valence\" of words is processed less immediate in L2 because of the delayed vocabulary/lexical access to these two languages.<br>\n\nSuccess in language learning can be measured in two ways: likelihood and quality. First language learners \"will\" be successful in both measurements. It is inevitable that all people will learn a first language and with few exceptions, they will be fully successful. For second language learners, success is not guaranteed. For one, learners may become fossilized or \"stuck\" as it were with ungrammatical items. (Fossilization occurs when language errors become a permanent feature. See Canale & Swain (1980), Johnson (1992), Selinker (1972), and Selinker and Lamendella (1978).) The difference between learners may be significant. As noted elsewhere, L2 learners rarely achieve complete \"native-like\" control of the second language. <br>\nFor L2 pronounciation, there are two principles that haven been put forth by Levis (2005). The first is nativeness which means the speakers' ability to approximately reach the speaking pattern of the second language of speakers; and the second, understanding, refers to the speaker's ability to make themselves understood.\nBeing successful in learning a second language can seem like a daunting task. Research has been done to look into why some students are more successful than others. Stern (1975), Rubin (1975) and Reiss (1985) are just a few of the researchers who have dedicated time to this subject. They have worked to determine what qualities make a \"good language learner\" (Mollica, Neussel, 1997). Some of their common findings are that a good language learner uses positive learning strategies, is an active learner who is constantly searching for meaning. Also a good language learner demonstrates a willingness to practice and use the language in real communication. He also monitors himself and his learning, has a strong drive to communicate, and has a good ear and good listening skills (Mollica, Neussel, 1997).<br>\n\nÖzgür and Griffiths have designed an experiment in 2013 about the relationship between different motivations and second language acquisition. They have looked at four types of motivations—intrinsic (inner feelings of learner), extrinsic (reward from outside), integrative (attitude towards learning), and instrumental (practical needs). According to the test results, the intrinsic part has been the main motivation for these student who learn English as their second language. However, students report themselves being strongly instrumentally motivated. In conclusion, learning a second language and being successful depend on every individual.<br>\n\nIn pedagogy and sociolinguistics, a distinction is made between second language and foreign language, the latter is being learned for use in an area where that language is originally from another country and not spoken in the native country of the speakers. And in other words, foreign language is used from the perspective of countries; the second language is used from the perspective of individuals.\n\nFor example, arguably, English in countries such as India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, the Philippines, the Nordic countries and the Netherlands can be considered a second language for many of its speakers, because they learn it young and use it regularly; indeed in southern Asia it is the official language of the courts, government and business. The same can be said for French in Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia, although French is nominally not an official language in any of these Arabic-speaking countries. In practice, French is widely used in a variety of contexts in these countries, and public signs are normally printed in both Arabic and French. A similar phenomenon exists in post-Soviet states such as the Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan, where Russian can be considered a second language, and there are large Russophone communities there.\n\nHowever, in China (with the exception perhaps of Hong Kong), English must be considered a foreign language due to the lack of opportunities for use, such as historical links, media, conversation between people, and similar vocabulary. Likewise, French would be considered a foreign language in Romania and Moldova. This is despite Romanian and French being Romance languages (unlike Chinese and English, which come from two different language families: Sino-Tibetan and Indo-European). This is also despite Romania and Moldova being the only two countries in the world where Romanian is an official language at the national level, Romania's historical links to France, and both Romanian-speaking countries' membership in the Francophonie.\nPsychological studies have found that speaking two or more languages is good for people's cognitive process and the differences between brains of bilinguals and single language speakers usually provides some mental benefits, according to an article on The Telegraph in 2013. Including but not limited to these: <br>\nBecoming smarter<br>\nSpeaking a second language improves the functions of the brain by thinking and using the different language systems.<br>\nBuilding multitasking skills<br>\nAccording to a study from the Pennsylvania State University, \"juggling language can make better brains\". Because multilingual people are usually good at switching between different language systems, they can be good multitaskers as well. <br>\nImproving memory<br>\nThe vocabulary capacity for a high school graduate student is about 45000 words, according to Nagy and Anderson (1984), and being a bilingual will double this number because learning a language involves memorizing rules and vocabulary.<br>\nSee more in references.<br>\nGeorge H. J. Weber, a Swiss businessman and independent scholar, founder of the Andaman Association and creator of the encyclopedic andaman.org Web site, made a report in December 1997 about the number of secondary speakers of the world's leading languages. Weber used the Fischer Weltalmanach of 1986 as his only source for the L2-speakers data, in preparing the data in the following table. These numbers are here compared with those referred to by Ethnologue, a popular source in the linguistics field. See below Table 1.\n\nCollecting the number of second language speakers of every language is extremely difficult and even the best estimates contain the guess work. Data below updated June 2013 from Ethnologue.com See below Table 2&3.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20315589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20315589", "title": "Shiwiar language", "text": "Shiwiar language\n\nShiwiar, also known as Achuar, \"Jivaro, Maina\", is a Jivaroan language spoken along the Pastaza and Bobonaza rivers in Ecuador.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24786572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24786572", "title": "Susana Molinari Leguizamón", "text": "Susana Molinari Leguizamón\n\nSusana Molinari Leguizamón (pseudonym, Alma del Fiore) was an Argentine Spanish, Italian and French language writer active during the 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "6257181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6257181", "title": "Thin-shell structure", "text": "Thin-shell structure\n\nThin-shell structures are also called plate and shell structures. They are lightweight constructions using shell elements. These elements, typically curved, are assembled to make large structures. Typical applications include aircraft fuselages, boat hulls, and the roofs of large buildings.\n\nA thin shell is defined as a shell with a thickness which is small compared to its other dimensions and in which deformations are not large compared to thickness. A primary difference between a shell structure and a plate structure is that, in the unstressed state, the shell structure has curvature as opposed to the plates structure which is flat. Membrane action in a shell is primarily caused by in-plane forces (plane stress), but there may be secondary forces resulting from flexural deformations. Where a flat plate acts similar to a beam with bending and shear stresses, shells are analogous to a cable which resists loads through tensile stresses. The ideal thin shell must be capable of developing both tension and compression.\n\nThe most popular types of thin-shell structures are:\n\n\n"}
