{"id": "44909080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44909080", "title": "2015 in Andorra", "text": "2015 in Andorra\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 2015 in the Principality of Andorra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36861651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36861651", "title": "Africa World Airlines", "text": "Africa World Airlines\n\nAfrica World Airlines Limited (AWA) is a Ghanaian airline company with its head office in Accra, Greater Accra, Ghana, and its main hub at Kotoka International Airport in Accra.\n\nAfrica World Airlines was incorporated in 2010 and commenced flights in 2012. It is a joint venture between Hainan Airlines, China-Africa Development Fund, SSNIT and SAS Finance Group\n\nThe Africa World Airlines fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of October 2018):\n\nAfrica World Airlines took delivery on 30 August 2012 of its first Embraer 145 aircraft that will be used to operate domestic routes.\n. A second aircraft was delivered on 8 September 2012.. The airline added a 3rd aircraft in 2013 and a further 4 aircraft between 2016 and 2018. All these aircraft were previously operated by Tianjin Airlines which is a sister company within the HNA Group.\n\nAfrica World Airlines operates the following scheduled services as of June 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23943723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23943723", "title": "African Study Monographs", "text": "African Study Monographs\n\nAfrican Studies Monographs is a peer-reviewed open access academic journal that covers African studies. It was published annually from 1982 to 1987, moving to quarterly publication in 1988.\n"}
{"id": "28379783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28379783", "title": "Ardealul", "text": "Ardealul\n\nArdealul () was a weekly newspaper from Chişinău, the Moldavian Republic, founded by Onisifor Ghibu in October 1917. Initially, the newspaper was published weekly, later appeared three times a week. After January 1918, its successor was the daily newspaper România Nouă.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32234269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32234269", "title": "Association of African Tax Institutes", "text": "Association of African Tax Institutes\n\nThe Association of African Tax Institutes (AATI) is an industry association whose aim is, among other things, to provide a platform of collaboration between tax professionals in Africa and to help bridge the divide between tax professionals in the countries of member bodies, their governments and taxpayers.\n\nThe establishment of a Pan-African association for tax institutes was initiated and spearheaded by Stiaan Klue, the Chief Executive of the SA Institute of Tax Practitioners (SAIT).\n\nThe AATI was launched during a meeting of Presidents of Taxation Institutes and Heads of Revenue Agencies in Africa in Lagos in June 2011. Countries represented at the founding of AATI included South Africa, Nigeria, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Ghana, The Gambia, Côte d'Ivoire, Libya and Kenya. Sunday Jegede, president of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) was elected inaugural President.\nTwo vice-presidents were elected, one from Ghana and one from South Africa.\nRepresentatives from Liberia and Côte d'Ivoire are respectively Honorary Treasurer and Secretary.\n\nSunday Jegede said the AATI would help bridge the gap between the tax system and professionals in member countries, and would encourage all African countries to establish professional bodies. These would ensure that tax practice would be conducted by skilled professionals, and would help `their governments formulate sound tax policies.\nJegede said the AATI would further economic collaboration, harmonisation and integration within the continent through the use of taxation. He described this as a veritable economic transformation tool.\nThe secretariat of the AATI will be in Ghana.\n\nThe association was formally inaugurated in South Africa in October 2011 during the Annual Tax Conference of the SA Institute of Tax Practitioners (SAIT).\n"}
{"id": "18581934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18581934", "title": "Avar–Andi–Dido peoples", "text": "Avar–Andi–Dido peoples\n\nThe Avar–Andi–Dido peoples consists of 13 small ethnic groups plus the much larger Caucasian Avar peoples. Since the 1930s there have been attempts to classify them all as Avars, but the 2002 Russian Census presents a broad variety of designations of these people.\n\nAvar is a collective term for the Avar–Andi–Dido peoples and generalizes to various ethnic groups native to the foothills of Russia's Dagestan Republic; Avars can be classified into the following subgroups:\n"}
{"id": "28373182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28373182", "title": "Babičky", "text": "Babičky\n\nBabičky is a Czech novel, written by Petr Šabach. It was first published in 1999. The name of the novel, meaning \"Granny\", is because the author relates personal experiences of his grandmother in this humorous novel mixed with literary fiction.\n"}
{"id": "40286726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40286726", "title": "Bibiani Gold Stars F.C.", "text": "Bibiani Gold Stars F.C.\n\nBibiani Gold Stars FC, formerly the Complex Stars and often shortened to and more commonly known as the Gold Stars, is a Ghanaian professional football team. It was founded in 1998 and later given to the Bibiani Gold Mines, who play in the 2A Zone of the Ghana Division One League. Zone 2A has seven competing teams from the part of the Ashanti Region, Western Region and the Central Region of Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "45501526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45501526", "title": "Bolor Erike", "text": "Bolor Erike\n\nThe Bolor Erike (\"The Crystal Beads\"; Middle Mongolian: \"Bolor erikhe ᠪᠣᠯᠤᠷ ᠡᠷᠢᠬᠡ\", Modern Mongolian: \"Bolor erikh\") is a Mongolian chronicle written by Rashpuntsag in 1776.\"Information Mongolia\" calls the \"Bolor Erikh\" an important moment in Mongolian historiography. This history is said to have “made a successful attempt at critical assessment of the sources and appraisal of various historical events. Moreover, Rashpuntsag substantianed in his own way imperative need for ctiticism and dispute in recording history\". Rashpunstag have suggested that Xiongnu were a Mongolic people. American Mongolist Dr.Christopher Atwood of Indiana University, noted that Rashpuntsag \"was the first Mongolian historian to be significantly influenced by \nChinese historical writing and make use Chinese historical data (1998:330).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32242394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32242394", "title": "Brighton Collaboration", "text": "Brighton Collaboration\n\nThe Brighton Collaboration (BC) is a non-profit global vaccine safety research network for health care professionals, named after the city in England where the idea was first formulated.\nThe Brighton Collaboration was launched in 2000 The idea of the collaboration started in 1999, following a presentation by Bob Chen at an international scientific vaccine conference in Brighton, U.K. In his talk, he stressed the need to improve vaccine safety monitoring by developing internationally accepted standards. \n"}
{"id": "8756167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8756167", "title": "Burundian communal elections, 2005", "text": "Burundian communal elections, 2005\n\nCommunal elections were held in Burundi on 3 June and 7 June 2005. The elections were won by the National Council for the Defense of Democracy – Forces for the Defense of Democracy (CNDD-FDD), which won 1,781 of the 3,225 seats.\n\nEach of the 129 communes had 25 seats.\n\nThe election was largely peaceful in most parts of the country, however, violence and intimidation in some communes of Bujumbura Rural and Bubanza provinces led to a re-poll held on 7 June. Observers considered the communal elections generally free and fair, despite some minor irregularities. \n"}
{"id": "47228754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47228754", "title": "Bălți National Theatre", "text": "Bălți National Theatre\n\nVasile Alecsandri National Theatre () in Bălți, is one of the national theatres of Moldova. Founded in 1957, it was given the name of the renowned Romanian playwright and poet Vasile Alecsandri. On 26 January 1990, Vasile Alecsandri Theatre became the first national theatre in Moldova.\n\n"}
{"id": "21149547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21149547", "title": "Chamber TV", "text": "Chamber TV\n\nChamber TV is a Luxembourgish television channel that broadcasts coverage of the activities of the national legislature, the Chamber of Deputies. It is available by cable and by satellite. It is owned and managed by the Chamber of Deputies, under the direction of the President of the Chamber (currently Laurent Mosar).\n"}
{"id": "6883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6883", "title": "City of London", "text": "City of London\n\nThe City of London is a city and county that contains the historic centre and the primary central business district (CBD) of London. It constituted most of London from its settlement by the Romans in the 1st century AD to the Middle Ages, but the agglomeration has since grown far beyond the City's borders. The City is now only a tiny part of the metropolis of London, though it remains a notable part of central London. Administratively, it forms one of the 33 local authority districts of Greater London; however, the City of London is not a London borough, a status reserved for the other 32 districts (including London's only other city, the City of Westminster). It is also a separate county of England, being an enclave surrounded by Greater London. It is the smallest county in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe City of London is widely referred to simply as the City (differentiated from the phrase \"the city of London\" by capitalising \"City\") and is also colloquially known as the Square Mile, as it is in area. Both of these terms are also often used as metonyms for the United Kingdom's trading and financial services industries, which continue a notable history of being largely based in the City. The name \"London\" is now ordinarily used for a far wider area than just the City. \"London\" most often denotes the sprawling London metropolis, or the 32 London boroughs, in addition to the City of London itself. This wider usage of \"London\" is documented as far back as 1888, when the County of London was created.\n\nThe local authority for the City, namely the City of London Corporation, is unique in the UK and has some unusual responsibilities for a local council, such as being the police authority. It is also unusual in having responsibilities and ownerships beyond its boundaries. The Corporation is headed by the Lord Mayor of the City of London, an office separate from (and much older than) the Mayor of London. The current Lord Mayor, as of November 2018, is Peter Estlin.\n\nThe City is a major business and financial centre. Throughout the 19th century, the City was the world's primary business centre, and it continues to be a major meeting point for businesses. London came top in the Worldwide Centres of Commerce Index, published in 2008. The insurance industry is focused around the eastern side of the City, around Lloyd's building. A secondary financial district exists outside the City, at Canary Wharf, to the east.\n\nThe City has a resident population of 9,401 (ONS estimate, mid-2016) but over 300,000 people commute to and work there. About three quarters of the jobs in the City of London are in the financial, professional, and associated business services sectors. The legal profession forms a major component of the northern and western sides of the City, especially in the Temple and Chancery Lane areas where the Inns of Court are located, of which two—Inner Temple and Middle Temple—fall within the City of London boundary.\n\nKnown as \"Londinium\", the Roman legions established on the current site of the City of London around  43. Its bridge over the River Thames turned the city into a road nexus and major port, serving as a major commercial centre in Roman Britain until its abandonment during the 5th century. Archaeologist Leslie Wallace notes that \"Because no LPRIA settlements or significant domestic refuse have been found in London, despite extensive archaeological excavation, arguments for a purely Roman foundation of London are now common and uncontroversial.\"\n\nAt its height, the Roman city had a population of approximately 45,000–60,000 inhabitants. Londinium was an ethnically diverse city, with inhabitants from across the Roman Empire, including natives of Britannia, continental Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa. The Romans built the London Wall some time between 190 and 225 AD. The boundaries of the Roman city were similar to those of the City of London today, though Londinium did not extend further west than Ludgate or the Fleet, and the mid-estuary Thames was undredged and wider than it is today thus, the City's shoreline was north of its present position. The Romans built a bridge across the river, as early as 50 AD, near to today's London Bridge.\n\nBy the time the London Wall was constructed, the City's fortunes were in decline, and it faced problems of plague and fire. The Roman Empire entered a long period of instability and decline, including the Carausian Revolt in Britain. In the 3rd and 4th centuries, the city was under attack from Picts, Scots, and Saxon raiders. The decline continued, both for Londinium and the Empire, and in 410 AD the Romans withdrew entirely from Britain. Many of the Roman public buildings in Londinium by this time had fallen into decay and disuse, and gradually after the formal withdrawal the city became almost (if not, at times, entirely) uninhabited. The centre of trade and population moved away from the walled Londinium to Lundenwic (\"London market\"), a settlement to the west, roughly in the modern day Strand/Aldwych/Covent Garden area.\n\nDuring the Anglo-Saxon Heptarchy, the London area came in turn under the Kingdoms of Essex, Mercia, and later Wessex, though from the mid 8th century it was frequently under the control or threat of the Vikings.\nBede records that in 604 AD St Augustine consecrated Mellitus as the first bishop to the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of the East Saxons and their king, Sæberht. Sæberht's uncle and overlord, Æthelberht, king of Kent, built a church dedicated to St Paul in London, as the seat of the new bishop. It is assumed, although unproven, that this first Anglo-Saxon cathedral stood on the same site as the later medieval and the present cathedrals.\n\nAlfred the Great, King of Wessex and arguably the first king of the \"English\", occupied and began the resettlement of the old Roman walled area, in 886, and appointed his son-in-law Earl Æthelred of Mercia over it as part of their reconquest of the Viking occupied parts of England. The refortified Anglo-Saxon settlement was known as Lundenburh (\"London Fort\", a borough). The historian Asser said that \"Alfred, king of the Anglo-Saxons, restored the city of London splendidly ... and made it habitable once more.\" Alfred's \"restoration\" entailed reoccupying and refurbishing the nearly deserted Roman walled city, building quays along the Thames, and laying a new city street plan.\n\nAlfred's taking of London and the rebuilding of the old Roman city was a turning point in history, not only as the permanent establishment of the City of London, but also as part of a unifying moment in early England, with Wessex becoming the dominant English kingdom and the repelling (to some degree) of the Viking occupation and raids. While London, and indeed England, were afterwards subjected to further periods of Viking and Danish raids and occupation, the establishment of the City of London and the Kingdom of England prevailed.\n\nIn the 10th century, Athelstan permitted eight mints to be established, compared with six in his capital, Winchester, indicating the wealth of the city. London Bridge, which had fallen into ruin following the Roman evacuation and abandonment of Londinium, was rebuilt by the Saxons, but was periodically destroyed by Viking raids and storms.\n\nAs the focus of trade and population was moved back to within the old Roman walls, the older Saxon settlement of Lundenwic was largely abandoned and gained the name of \"Ealdwic\" (the \"old settlement\"). The name survives today as Aldwych (the \"old market-place\"), a name of a street and an area of the City of Westminster between Westminster and the City of London.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Hastings, William the Conqueror marched on London \"(reaching as far as Southwark)\", but failed to get across London Bridge or to defeat the Londoners. He eventually crossed the River Thames at Wallingford, pillaging the land as he went. Rather than continuing the war, Edgar the Ætheling, Edwin of Mercia and Morcar of Northumbria surrendered at Berkhamsted. William granted the citizens of London a charter in 1075; the City was one of a few examples of the English retaining some authority. The City was not covered by the Domesday Book.\n\nWilliam built three castles nearby, to keep Londoners subdued:\n\n\nAbout 1130, Henry I granted a sheriff to the people of London, along with control of the county of Middlesex: this meant that the two entities were regarded as one administratively (not that the county was a dependency of the City) until the Local Government Act 1888. By 1141 the whole body of the citizenry was considered to constitute a single community. This 'commune' was the origin of the City of London Corporation and the citizens gained the right to appoint, with the king's consent, a Mayor in 1189—and to directly elect the Mayor from 1215.\n\nFrom medieval times, the City has been composed of 25 ancient wards, each headed by an Alderman, who chairs Wardmotes, which still take place at least annually. A Folkmoot, for the whole of the City held at the outdoor cross of St Paul's Cathedral, was formerly also held. Many of the medieval offices and traditions continue to the present day, demonstrating the unique nature of the City and its Corporation.\n\nIn 1381, the Peasants' Revolt affected London. The rebels took the City and the Tower of London, but the rebellion ended after its leader, Wat Tyler, was killed during a confrontation that included Lord Mayor William Walworth.\n\nThe City was burnt severely on a number of occasions, the worst being in 1123 and (more famously) in the Great Fire of London in 1666. Both of these fires were referred to as \"the\" Great Fire. After the fire of 1666, a number of plans were drawn up to remodel the City and its street pattern into a renaissance-style city with planned urban blocks, squares and boulevards. These plans were almost entirely not taken up, and the medieval street pattern re-emerged almost intact.\n\nBy the late 16th century, London increasingly became a major centre for banking, international trade and commerce. The Royal Exchange was founded in 1565 by Sir Thomas Gresham as a centre of commerce for London's merchants, and gained Royal patronage in 1571. Although no longer used for its original purpose, its location at the corner of Cornhill and Threadneedle Street continues to be the geographical centre of the City's core of banking and financial services, with the Bank of England moving to its present site in 1734, opposite the Royal Exchange on Threadneedle Street. Immediately to the south of Cornhill, Lombard Street was the location from 1691 of Lloyd's Coffee House, which became the world-leading insurance market. London's insurance sector continues to be based in the area, particularly in Lime Street.\n\nIn 1708, Christopher Wren's masterpiece, St Paul's Cathedral, was completed on his birthday. The first service had been held on 2 December 1697, more than 10 years earlier. It replaced the original St Paul's, which had been completely destroyed in the Great Fire of London, and is considered to be one of the finest cathedrals in Britain and a fine example of Baroque architecture.\n\nThe 18th century was a period of rapid growth for London, reflecting an increasing national population, the early stirrings of the Industrial Revolution, and London's role at the centre of the evolving British Empire. The urban area expanded beyond the borders of the City of London, most notably during this period towards the West End and Westminster.\n\nExpansion continued and became more rapid by the beginning of the 19th century, with London growing in all directions. To the East the Port of London grew rapidly during the century, with the construction of many docks, needed as the Thames at the City could not cope with the volume of trade. The arrival of the railways and the Tube meant that London could expand over a much greater area. By the mid-19th century, with London still rapidly expanding in population and area, the City had already become only a small part of the wider metropolis.\n\nAn attempt was made in 1894 with the Royal Commission on the Amalgamation of the City and County of London to end the distinction between the City and the surrounding County of London, but a change of government at Westminster meant the option was not taken up. The City as a distinct polity survived despite its position within the London conurbation and numerous local government reforms. Supporting this status, the City was a special parliamentary borough that elected four members to the unreformed House of Commons, who were retained after the Reform Act 1832; reduced to two under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885; and ceased to be a separate constituency under the Representation of the People Act 1948. Since then the City is a minority (in terms of population and area) of the Cities of London and Westminster.\nThe City's population fell rapidly in the 19th century and through most of the 20th century, as people moved outwards in all directions to London's vast suburbs, and many residential buildings were demolished to make way for office blocks. Like many areas of London and other British cities, the City fell victim to large scale and highly destructive aerial bombing during World War II, especially in the Blitz. Whilst St Paul's Cathedral survived the onslaught, large swathes of the area did not and the particularly heavy raids of late December 1940 led to a firestorm called the Second Great Fire of London.\n\nThere was a major rebuilding programme in the decades following the war, in some parts (such as at the Barbican) dramatically altering the urban landscape. But the destruction of the older historic fabric allowed the construction of modern and larger-scale developments, whereas in those parts not so badly affected by bomb damage the City retains its older character of smaller buildings. The street pattern, which is still largely medieval, was altered slightly in places, although there is a more recent trend of reversing some of the post-war modernist changes made, such as at Paternoster Square.\n\nThe City suffered terrorist attacks including the 1993 Bishopsgate bombing (IRA) and the 7 July 2005 London bombings (Islamist). In response to the 1993 bombing, a system of road barriers, checkpoints and surveillance cameras referred to as the \"ring of steel\" has been maintained to control entry points to the City.\n\nThe 1970s saw the construction of tall office buildings including the 600-foot (183 m), 47-storey Natwest Tower, the first skyscraper in the UK. Office space development has intensified especially in the central, northern and eastern parts, with skyscrapers including 30 St. Mary Axe (\"the Gherkin\"'), Leadenhall Building (\"the Cheesegrater\"), 20 Fenchurch Street (\"the Walkie-Talkie\"), the Broadgate Tower and the Heron Tower, the tallest in the City. Another skyscraper, 22 Bishopsgate, is under construction.\n\nThe main residential section of the City today is the Barbican Estate, constructed between 1965 and 1976. The Museum of London is based there, as are a number of other services provided by the Corporation.\n\n\"For a history of the etymology behind the City's streets see: Street names of the City of London\"\n\nThe City has a unique political status, a legacy of its uninterrupted integrity as a corporate city since the Anglo-Saxon period and its singular relationship with the Crown. Historically its system of government was not unusual, but it was not reformed by the Municipal Reform Act 1835 and little changed by later reforms.\n\nIt is administered by the City of London Corporation, headed by the Lord Mayor of London (\"not the same as the more recent Mayor of London\"), which is responsible for a number of functions and has interests in land beyond the City's boundaries. Unlike other English local authorities, the Corporation has two council bodies: the (now largely ceremonial) Court of Aldermen and the Court of Common Council. The Court of Aldermen represents the wards, with each ward (irrespective of size) returning one Alderman. The chief executive of the Corporation holds the ancient office of Town Clerk of London.\n\nThe City is a ceremonial county which has a Commission of Lieutenancy headed by the Lord Mayor instead of a Lord-Lieutenant and has two Sheriffs instead of a High Sheriff (see list of Sheriffs of London), quasi-judicial offices appointed by the Livery Companies, an ancient political system based on the representation and protection of trades (Guilds). Senior members of the Livery Companies are known as Liverymen and form the Common Hall, which chooses the Lord Mayor, the Sheriffs and certain other officers.\n\nThe City is made up of . They are survivors of the medieval government system that allowed a very local area to exist as a self-governing unit within the wider city. They can be described as electoral/political divisions; ceremonial, geographic and administrative entities; sub-divisions of the City. Each ward has an Alderman, who until the mid-1960s held office for life but since put themselves up for re-election at least every 6 years. Wards continue to have a Beadle, an ancient position which is now largely ceremonial whose main remaining function is the running of an annual Wardmote of electors, representatives and officials. At the Wardmote the ward's Alderman appoints at least one Deputy for the year ahead. Each ward also has a Ward Club, which is similar to a residents' association.\n\nThe wards are ancient and their number has changed three times since time immemorial\n\nFollowing boundary changes in 1994, and later reform of the business vote in the City, there was a major boundary and electoral representation revision of the wards in 2003, and they were reviewed again in 2010 for change in 2013, though not to such a dramatic extent. The review was conducted by senior officers of the Corporation and senior judges of the Old Bailey; the wards are reviewed by this process to avoid malapportionment. The procedure of review is unique in the United Kingdom as it is not conducted by the Electoral Commission or a local government boundary commission every 8 to 12 years, which is the case for all other wards in Great Britain. Particular churches, livery company halls and other historic buildings and structures are associated with a ward, such as St Paul's Cathedral with Castle Baynard, and London Bridge with Bridge; boundary changes in 2003 removed some of these historic connections.\n\nEach ward elects an Alderman to the Court of Aldermen, and Commoners (the City equivalent of a Councillor) to the Court of Common Council of the Corporation. Only electors who are Freemen of the City of London are eligible to stand. The number of Commoners a ward sends to the Common Council varies from two to ten, depending on the number of electors in each ward. Since the 2003 review it has been agreed that the four more residential wards: Portsoken, Queenhithe, Aldersgate and Cripplegate together elect 20 of the 100 Commoners, whereas the business-dominated remainder elect the remaining 80 Commoners. 2003 and 2013 boundary changes have increased the residential emphasis of the mentioned four wards.\n\nCensus data provides eight nominal rather than 25 real wards, all of varying size and population. Being subject to renaming and definition at any time, these census 'wards' are notable in that four of the eight wards accounted for 67% of the 'square mile' and held 86% of the population, and these were in fact similar to and named after four City of London wards:\n\nThe City has a unique electoral system. Most of its voters are representatives of businesses and other bodies that occupy premises in the City. Its ancient wards have very unequal numbers of voters. In elections, both the businesses based in the City and the residents of the City vote.\n\nThe City of London Corporation was not reformed by the Municipal Corporations Act 1835, because it had a more extensive electoral franchise than any other borough or city; in fact, it widened this further with its own equivalent legislation allowing one to become a freeman without being a liveryman. In 1801, the City had a population of about 130,000, but increasing development of the City as a central business district led to this falling to below 5,000 after the Second World War. It has risen slightly to around 9,000 since, largely due to the development of the Barbican Estate. In 2009, the business vote was about 24,000, greatly exceeding residential voters. As the City of London Corporation has not been affected by other municipal legislation over the period of time since then, its electoral practice has become increasingly anomalous. Uniquely for city or borough elections, its elections remain independent-dominated.\n\nThe business or \"non-residential vote\" was abolished in other UK local council elections by the Representation of the People Act 1969, but was preserved in the City of London. The principal reason given by successive UK governments for retaining this mechanism for giving businesses representation, is that the City is \"primarily a place for doing business\". About 330,000 non-residents constitute the day-time population and use most of its services, far outnumbering residents, who number around 7,000 (2011). By contrast, opponents of the retention of the business vote argue that it is a cause of institutional inertia.\n\nThe City of London (Ward Elections) Act 2002, a private Act of Parliament, reformed the voting system and greatly increased the business franchise, allowing many more businesses to be represented. Under the new system, the number of non-resident voters has doubled from 16,000 to 32,000. Previously disenfranchised firms (and other organisations) are entitled to nominate voters, in addition to those already represented, and all such bodies are now required to choose their voters in a representative fashion. Bodies employing fewer than ten people may appoint one voter; those employing ten to 50 people one voter for every five employees; those employing more than 50 people ten voters and one additional voter for each 50 employees beyond the first 50. The Act also removed other anomalies which had been unchanged since the 1850s.\n\nInner Temple and Middle Temple (which neighbour each other) are two of the few remaining liberties, an old name for a geographic division. They are independent extra-parochial areas, historically not governed by the City of London Corporation (and are today regarded as local authorities for most purposes) and equally outside the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Bishop of London. They are within the boundaries and liberties of the City, but can be thought of as independent enclaves. They are both part of Farringdon Without.\n\nWithin the City, the Corporation owns and runs both Smithfield Market and Leadenhall Market. It owns land beyond its boundaries, including open spaces (parks, forests and commons) in and around Greater London, including most of Epping Forest, Hampstead Heath. The Honourable The Irish Society, a body closely linked with the Corporation, also owns many public spaces in Northern Ireland. The Corporation owns Old Spitalfields Market and Billingsgate Fish Market, in the neighbouring London Borough of Tower Hamlets. It owns and helps fund the Old Bailey, the Central Criminal Court for England and Wales, as a gift to the nation, having begun as the City and Middlesex Sessions.\n\nThe City has its own independent police force, the City of London Police—the Common Council (the main body of the Corporation) is the police authority. The rest of Greater London is policed by the Metropolitan Police Service, based at New Scotland Yard.\n\nThe City has one hospital, St Bartholomew's Hospital, also known as 'Barts'. Founded in 1123, it is located at Smithfield, and is undergoing a long-awaited regeneration after doubts as to its continuing use during the 1990s.\n\nThe City is the third largest UK patron of the arts. It oversees the Barbican Centre and subsidises several important performing arts companies.\n\nThe London Port Health Authority, which is the responsibility of the Corporation, is responsible for all port health functions on the tidal part of the Thames, including various seaports and London City Airport. The Corporation oversees the running of the Bridge House Trust, which maintains London Bridge, Blackfriars Bridge, Southwark Bridge, Tower Bridge and the Millennium Bridge. The City's flag flies over Tower Bridge, although neither footing is in the City.\n\nThe size of the City was constrained by a defensive perimeter wall, known as London Wall, which was built by the Romans in the late 2nd century to protect their strategic port city. However the boundaries of the City of London no longer coincide with the old city wall, as the City expanded its jurisdiction slightly over time. During the medieval era, the City's jurisdiction expanded westwards, crossing the historic western border of the original settlement—the River Fleet—along Fleet Street to Temple Bar. The City also took in the other \"City bars\" which were situated just beyond the old walled area, such as at Holborn, Aldersgate, Bishopsgate and Aldgate. These were the important entrances to the City and their control was vital in maintaining the City's special privileges over certain trades.\nMost of the wall has disappeared, but several sections remain visible. A section near the Museum of London was revealed after the devastation of an air raid on 29 December 1940 at the height of the Blitz. Other visible sections are at St Alphage, and there are two sections near the Tower of London. The River Fleet was canalised after the Great Fire of 1666 and then in stages was bricked up and has been since the 18th century one of London's \"lost rivers or streams\", today underground as a storm drain.\n\nThe boundary of the City was unchanged until minor boundary changes on 1 April 1994, when it expanded slightly to the west, north and east, taking small parcels of land from the London Boroughs of Westminster, Camden, Islington, Hackney and Tower Hamlets. The main purpose of these changes was to tidy up the boundary where it had been rendered obsolete by changes in the urban landscape. In this process the City also lost small parcels of land, though there was an overall net gain (the City grew from 1.05 to 1.12 square miles). Most notably, the changes placed the (then recently developed) Broadgate estate entirely in the City.\n\nSouthwark, to the south of the City on the other side of the Thames, was within the City between 1550 and 1899 as the \"Ward of Bridge Without\", a situation connected with the Guildable Manor. The City's administrative responsibility there had in practice disappeared by the mid-Victorian period as various aspects of metropolitan government were extended into the neighbouring areas. Today it is part of the London Borough of Southwark. The Tower of London has always been outside the City and comes under the London Borough of Tower Hamlets.\n\nThe Corporation of the City of London has a full achievement of armorial bearings consisting of a shield on which the arms are displayed, a crest displayed on a helm above the shield, supporters on either side and a motto displayed on a scroll beneath the arms.\n\nThe coat of arms is \"anciently recorded\" at the College of Arms. The arms consist of a silver shield bearing a red cross with a red upright sword in the first quarter. They combine the emblems of the patron saints of England and London: the Cross of St George with the symbol of the martyrdom of Saint Paul. The sword is often erroneously supposed to commemorate the killing of Peasants' Revolt leader Wat Tyler by Lord Mayor of London William Walworth. However the arms were in use some months before Tyler's death, and the tradition that Walworth's dagger is depicted may date from the late 17th century.\n\nThe Latin motto of the City is \"\"Domine dirige nos\", which translates as \"Lord, direct (guide) us\"\". It appears to have been adopted in the 17th century, as the earliest record of it is in 1633.\n\nA banner of the arms (the design on the shield) is flown as a flag.\n\nThe City is England's smallest ceremonial county by area and population, and the fourth most densely populated. Of the 326 English districts, it is the second smallest by population, after the Isles of Scilly, and the smallest by area. It is also the smallest English city by population (and in Britain, only two cities in Wales are smaller), and the smallest in the UK by area.\n\nThe elevation of the City ranges from sea level at the Thames to at the junction of High Holborn and Chancery Lane. Two small but notable hills are within the historic core, Ludgate Hill to the west and Cornhill to the east. Between them ran the Walbrook, one of the many \"lost\" rivers or streams of London (another is the Fleet).\n\nOfficial boundary map, with wards.\n\nBeginning in the west, where the City borders Westminster, the boundary crosses the Victoria Embankment from the Thames, passes to the west of Middle Temple, then turns for a short distance along Strand and then north up Chancery Lane, where it borders Camden. It turns east along Holborn to Holborn Circus, and then goes north east to Charterhouse Street. As it crosses Farringdon Road it becomes the boundary with Islington. It continues to Aldersgate, goes north, and turns east into some back streets soon after Aldersgate becomes Goswell Road, since 1994 embracing all of the Corporation's Golden Lane Estate. Here, at Baltic Street West, is the most northerly extent. The boundary includes all of the Barbican Estate and continues east along Ropemaker Street and its continuation on the other side of Moorgate, becomes South Place. It goes north, reaching the border with Hackney, then east, north, east on back streets, with Worship Street forming a northern boundary, so as to include the Broadgate estate. The boundary then turns south at Norton Folgate and becomes the border with Tower Hamlets. It continues south into Bishopsgate, and takes some backstreets to Middlesex Street (Petticoat Lane) where it continues south-east then south. It then turns south-west, crossing the Minories so as to exclude the Tower of London, and then reaches the river. It then runs up the centre of the Thames, with the exception that Blackfriars Bridge falls within the City; the City controls London Bridge (as part of Bridge ward) but only half of the river underneath it, a feature which is unique in British local administration.\n\nThe boundaries are marked by black bollards bearing the City's emblem, and by dragon boundary marks at major entrances, such as Holborn. A more substantial monument marks the boundary at Temple Bar on Fleet Street.\n\nIn some places the financial district extends slightly beyond the boundaries, notably to the north and east, into the London Boroughs of Tower Hamlets, Hackney and Islington, and informally these locations are seen as part of the \"Square Mile\". Since the 1990s the eastern fringe, extending into Hackney and Tower Hamlets, has increasingly been a focus for large office developments due to the availability of large sites compared to within the City.\n\nThe City has no sizeable parks within its boundary, but does have a network of a large number of gardens and small open spaces, many of them maintained by the Corporation. These range from formal gardens such as the one in Finsbury Circus, containing a bowling green and bandstand, to churchyards such as St Olave Hart Street, to water features and artwork in courtyards and pedestrianised lanes.\n\nGardens include:\n\nThere are a number of private gardens and open spaces, often within courtyards of the larger commercial developments. Two of the largest are those of the Inner Temple and Middle Temple Inns of Court, in the far southwest.\n\nThe Thames and its riverside walks are increasingly being valued as open space and in recent years efforts have been made to increase the ability for pedestrians to access and walk along the river.\n\nThe nearest weather station has historically been the London Weather Centre at Kingsway/ Holborn, although observations ceased in 2010. Now St. James Park provides the nearest official readings.\n\nThe City has an oceanic climate (Köppen \"Cfb\") modified by the Urban Heat Island in the centre of London. This generally causes higher night-time minima than outlying areas. For example, the August mean minimum of compares to a figure of for Greenwich and Heathrow whereas is at Wisley in the middle of several square miles of Metropolitan Green Belt. All figures refer to the observation period 1971–2000.\n\nAccordingly, the weather station holds the record for the UK's warmest overnight minimum temperature, , recorded on 4 August 1990. The maximum is , set on 10 August 2003. The absolute minimum for the weather station is a mere , compared to readings around towards the edges of London. Unusually, this temperature was during a windy and snowy cold spell (mid-January 1987), rather than a cold clear night—cold air drainage is arrested due to the vast urban area surrounding the city.\n\nThe station holds the record for the highest British mean monthly temperature, (mean maximum , mean minimum during July 2006). However, in terms of daytime maximum temperatures, Cambridge NIAB and Botanical Gardens with a mean maximum of , and Heathrow with all exceeded this.\n\nThe City is a police area and has its own police force, the City of London Police, separate from the Metropolitan Police Service covering the remainder of Greater London. The City Police have three police stations, at Snow Hill, Wood Street and Bishopsgate, and an administrative headquarters at Guildhall Yard East. The force comprises 813 police officers, 85 Special Constables and 48 PCSOs. It is the smallest territorial police force in England and Wales, in both geographic area and the number of police officers.\n\nWhere the majority of British police forces have silver-coloured badges, those of the City of London Police are black and gold featuring the City crest. The force has unique red and white chequered cap bands and red and white striped duty arm bands on the sleeve of the tunics of constables and sergeants (red and white being the colours of the City), which in most other British police forces are black and white. City police sergeants and constables wear crested helmets whilst on foot patrol. These helmets do not feature either St Edward's Crown or the Brunswick Star, which are used on most other police helmets in England and Wales.\n\nThe City's position as the United Kingdom's financial centre and a critical part of the country's economy, contributing about 2.5% of the UK's gross national product, has resulted in it becoming a target for political violence. The Provisional IRA exploded several bombs in the early 1990s, including the 1993 Bishopsgate bombing.\n\nThe area is also spoken of as a possible target for al-Qaeda. For instance, when in May 2004 the BBC's \"Panorama\" programme examined the preparedness of Britain's emergency services for a terrorist attack on the scale of September 11, 2001 attacks, they simulated a chemical explosion on Bishopsgate in the east of the City.\n\nThe \"Ring of Steel\" is a particularly notable measure, established in the wake of the IRA bombings, that has been taken against terrorist threats.\n\nThe City has fire risks in many historic buildings, including St Paul's Cathedral, Old Bailey, Mansion House, Smithfield Market, the Guildhall, and also in numerous high-rise buildings. There is one London Fire Brigade station in the City, at Dowgate, with one pumping appliance. The City relies upon stations in the surrounding London boroughs to support it at some incidents. The first fire engine is in attendance in roughly five minutes on average, the second when required in a little over five and a half minutes. There were 1,814 incidents attended in the City in 2006/2007—the lowest in Greater London. No-one died in an event arising from a fire in the four years prior to 2007.\n\nThere is power station located in Charterhouse Street that also provides heat to some of the surrounding buildings\n\nThe Office for National Statistics recorded the population in 2011 as 7,375; slightly higher than in the last census, 2001, and estimates the population as at mid-2016 to be 9,401. At the 2001 census the ethnic composition was 84.6% White, 6.8% South Asian, 2.6% Black, 2.3% Mixed, 2.0% Chinese and 1.7% were listed as \"other\". To the right is a table showing the change in population since 1801, based on decadal censuses. The first half of the 19th century shows a population of between 120,000–140,000, decreasing dramatically from 1851 to 1991, with a small increase between 1991 and 2001. The only notable boundary change since the first census in 1801 occurred in 1994.\n\nThe City's full-time working residents have much higher gross weekly pay than in London and Great Britain (England, Wales and Scotland): £773.30 compared to £598.60 and £491.00 respectively. There is a large inequality of income between genders (£1,085.90 in men compared to £653.50 in women), though this can be explained by job type and length of employment respectively. The 2001 Census showed the City as a unique district amongst 376 districts surveyed in England and Wales. The City had the highest proportional population increase, one-person households, people with qualifications at degree level or higher and the highest indications of overcrowding. It recorded the lowest proportion of households with cars or vans, people who travel to work by car, married couple households and the lowest average household size: just 1.58 people. It also ranked highest within the Greater London area for the percentage of people with no religion and people who are employed.\n\nThe City vies with New York City's Downtown Manhattan as the financial capital of the world; many banking and insurance institutions have their headquarters there. The London Stock Exchange (shares and bonds), Lloyd's of London (insurance) and the Bank of England are all based in the City. Over 500 banks have offices in the City, and the City is an established leader in trading in Eurobonds, foreign exchange, energy futures and global insurance. The Alternative Investment Market, a market for trades in equities of smaller firms, is a recent development. In 2009, the City of London accounted for 2.4% of UK GDP.\n\nLondon is the world's greatest foreign exchange market, with much of the trade conducted in the City of London. Of the $3.98 trillion daily global turnover, as measured in 2009, trading in London accounted for around $1.85 trillion, or 46.7% of the total. The pound sterling, the currency of the United Kingdom, is globally the fourth most traded currency and the third most held reserve currency.\n\nSince 1991 Canary Wharf, a few miles east of the City in Tower Hamlets, has become another centre for London's financial services industry which houses many banks and other institutions formerly located in the Square Mile. Although growth has continued in both locations, and there have been relocations in both directions, the Corporation has come to realise that its planning policies may have been causing financial firms to choose Canary Wharf as a location.\n\nMany major global companies have their headquarters in the City, including Aviva, BT Group, Lloyds Banking Group, Old Mutual, Prudential, Schroders, Standard Chartered, and Unilever.\n\nA number of the world's largest law firms are headquartered in the City, including four of the \"Magic Circle\" law firms (Allen & Overy, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, Linklaters and Slaughter & May), as well as other firms such as DLA Piper, Eversheds Sutherland, Herbert Smith Freehills and Hogan Lovells.\n\nWhilst the financial sector, and related businesses and institutions, continue to dominate, the economy is not limited to that sector. The legal profession has a strong presence, especially in the west and north (i.e., towards the Inns of Court). Retail businesses were once important, but have gradually moved to the West End of London, though it is now Corporation policy to encourage retailing in some locations, for example at Cheapside near St Paul's. The City has a number of visitor attractions, mainly based on its historic heritage as well as the Barbican Centre and adjacent Museum of London, though tourism is not at present a major contributor to the City's economy or character. The City has many pubs, bars and restaurants, and the \"night-time\" economy does feature in the Bishopsgate area, towards Shoreditch. The meat market at Smithfield, wholly within the City, continues to be one of London's main markets (the only one remaining in central London) and the country's largest meat market. In the east is Leadenhall Market, a fresh food market that is also a visitor attraction.\n\nThe trend for purely office development is beginning to reverse as the Corporation encourages residential use, albeit with development occurring when it arises on windfall sites. The City has a target of 90 additional dwellings per year. Some of the extra accommodation is in small pre-World War II listed buildings, which are not suitable for occupation by the large companies which now provide much of the City's employment. Recent residential developments include \"the Heron\", a high-rise residential building on the Milton Court site adjacent to the Barbican, and the Heron Plaza development on Bishopsgate is also expected to include residential parts.\n\nSince the 1990s, the City has diversified away from near exclusive office use in other ways. For example, several hotels and the first department store opened in the 2000s. A shopping centre was more recently opened at One New Change, Cheapside (near St Paul's Cathedral) in October 2010, which is open seven days a week. However, large sections remain quiet at weekends, especially in the eastern section, and it is quite common to find shops, pubs and cafes closed on these days.\n\nFire, bombing and post-World War II redevelopment has meant that the City, despite its history, has relatively few intact notable historic structures. They include the Monument to the Great Fire of London (\"the Monument\"), St Paul's Cathedral, the Guildhall, the Royal Exchange, Dr. Johnson's House, Mansion House and a , many designed by Sir Christopher Wren, who also designed St Paul's. 2 King's Bench Walk and Prince Henry's Room are notable historic survivors of heavy bombing of the Temple area, which has largely been rebuilt to its historic form. Another example of a bomb-damaged place having been restored is Staple Inn on Holborn. A few small sections of the Roman London Wall exist, for example near the Tower of London and in the Barbican area. Among the twentieth-century listed buildings are Bracken House, the first post World War II buildings in the country to be given statutory protection, and the whole of the Barbican and Golden Lane Estate.\n\nThe Tower of London is not in the City, but is a notable visitor attraction which brings tourists to the southeast of the City. Other landmark buildings with historical significance include the Bank of England, the Old Bailey, the Custom House, Smithfield Market, Leadenhall Market and St Bartholomew's Hospital. Noteworthy contemporary buildings include a number of modern high-rise buildings (see section below) as well as the Lloyd's building.\n\n\nA growing number of tall buildings and skyscrapers are principally used by the financial sector. Almost all are situated in the eastern side around Bishopsgate, Leadenhall Street and Fenchurch Street, in the financial core of the City. In the north there is a smaller cluster comprising the Barbican Estate's three tall residential towers and the commercial CityPoint tower. In 2007, the tall Drapers' Gardens building was demolished and replaced by a shorter tower.\n\nThe City's buildings of more than in height are:\n\nThe timeline of the tallest building in the City is as follows:\n\nSeven of the eleven London Underground lines run through the City, serving eleven stations.\n\nThe Docklands Light Railway (DLR) has two stations within the City: Bank and Tower Gateway.\n\nThree longer-distance rail termini are in the City: Liverpool Street (services primarily to Essex and East Anglia including Southend Airport), Fenchurch Street (services to East London and South Essex) and Cannon Street (services to the South).\n\nMoorgate is the terminus for suburban services from Hertfordshire, and two through-routes operate mostly underground along the main axes:\n\nThe Northern line connects to two other main railway termini, Euston) and (Waterloo)); the latter has a direct connection to the City via the Waterloo and City Line.\n\nThe City is in Travelcard Zone 1.\n\nThe national A1, A10 A3, A4, and A40 road routes begin in the City. The City is in the London congestion charge zone, with the small exception on the eastern boundary of the sections of the A1210/A1211 that are part of the inner ring road. The following bridges, listed west to east (downstream), cross the River Thames: Blackfriars Bridge, Blackfriars Railway Bridge, Millennium Bridge (footbridge), Southwark Bridge, Cannon Street Railway Bridge and London Bridge; Tower Bridge is not in the City. The City, like most of central London, is well served by buses, including night buses. Two bus stations are in the City, at Aldgate on the eastern boundary with Tower Hamlets, and at Liverpool Street by the railway station. There are approximately 28 Barclays Cycle Hire docking stations in the City. A number of existing and proposed cycle routes criss-cross the City, as part of the London Cycle Network.\n\nOne London River Services pier is on the Thames in the City, Blackfriars Millennium Pier, though the Tower Millennium Pier lies adjacent to the boundary near the Tower of London. One of the Port of London's 25 safeguarded wharves, Walbrook Wharf, is adjacent to Cannon Street station, and is used by the Corporation to transfer waste via the river. Swan Lane Pier, just upstream of London Bridge, is proposed to be replaced and upgraded for regular passenger services, planned to take place in 2012–2015. Before then, Tower Pier is to be extended.\n\nThere is a public riverside walk along the river bank, opened in stages over recent years. The only section not running along the river is a short stretch at Queenhithe. The walk along Walbrook Wharf is closed to pedestrians when waste is being transferred onto barges.\n\nAccording to a survey conducted in March 2011, the methods by which employed residents 16-74 get to work varied widely: 48.4% go on foot; 19.5% via light rail, (i.e. the Underground, DLR, etc.); 9.2% work mainly from home; 5.8% take the train; 5.6% travel by bus, minibus, or coach; and 5.3% go by bicycle; with just 3.4% commuting by car or van, as driver or passenger.\n\nThe City has only one directly maintained primary school, Sir John Cass's Foundation Primary School at Aldgate (ages 4 to 11). It is a Voluntary-Aided (VA) Church of England school, maintained by the Education Service of the City of London.\n\nCity residents send their children to schools in neighbouring Local Education Authorities, such as Islington, Tower Hamlets, Westminster and Southwark.\n\nThe City controls three independent schools, City of London School (a boys' school) and City of London School for Girls in the City, and the City of London Freemen's School (co-educational day and boarding) in Ashtead, Surrey. The City of London School for Girls has its own preparatory department for entrance at age seven. It is the principal sponsor of The City Academy, Hackney, City of London Academy, Islington, and City of London Academy, Southwark.\n\nThe City is home to the Cass Business School, The London Institute of Banking & Finance, the Guildhall School of Music and Drama and parts of three of the universities in London: the Maughan Library of King's College London on Chancery Lane, the business school of London Metropolitan University, and a campus of the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. The College of Law has its London campus in Moorgate. Part of Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry is on the Barts hospital site at West Smithfield.\n\nLibraries operated by the Corporation include three lending libraries; Barbican Library, Shoe Lane Library and Artizan Street Library and Community Centre. Membership is open to all – with one official proof of address required to join.\n\nGuildhall Library, and City Business Library are also public reference libraries, specialising in the history of London and business reference resources.\n\nAuthor and journalist Nicholas Shaxson argued that, in return for the financial institutions based in the City raising loans and finance for the British government, the City \"has extracted privileges and freedoms from rules and laws to which the rest of Britain must submit\". He further claims that the assistance provided to the institutions based within it, many of which help their rich clients with offshore tax arrangements, mean that the City is \"a tax haven in its own right\".\n\nThe documentary asserts the tax haven status that the City provides.\n\n"}
{"id": "2212571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2212571", "title": "Classic FM (Czech Republic)", "text": "Classic FM (Czech Republic)\n\nClassic FM is a classical music radio station in the Czech Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "39240196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39240196", "title": "Comorians in France", "text": "Comorians in France\n\nComorians in France consist of migrants from Comoros and their descendants living and working in France.\n\nOutside of Mayotte, where Comorians are an important proportion of the local population, a great Comorian community is settled in Metropolitan France, mostly in Marseille but also in Paris and Seine-Saint-Denis, Lyon and Dunkerque.\n"}
{"id": "39267282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39267282", "title": "Constitution of Italy (1802)", "text": "Constitution of Italy (1802)\n\nThe Constitution of the Italian Republic (), was the constitution of the Italian Republic, a client republic of France under Napoleon Bonaparte, roughly comprising the modern-day northern regions of Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna. It came into effect on 26 January 1802.\n\n"}
{"id": "28332487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28332487", "title": "Csirkefej", "text": "Csirkefej\n\nCsirkefej (színmű) is a Hungarian play, written by György Spiró. It was first produced in 1985.\n"}
{"id": "33440420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33440420", "title": "Dacian fortress of Porumbenii Mari", "text": "Dacian fortress of Porumbenii Mari\n\nIt was a Dacian fortified town.\n"}
{"id": "41047431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41047431", "title": "DaneAge Association", "text": "DaneAge Association\n\nDaneAge Association (Danish: Ældre Sagen) is a Danish nonprofit membership organization that works for the protection of senior citizens' interests in the society. It was founded in 1986 and has about 650,000 members (2013).\n\nDaneAge has 217 local chapters across Denmark. Some 14,000 volunteers do voluntary social work, arrange local membership activities, local advocacy, etc.\n\nThe association's headquarters is located on the corner of Nørre Voldgade and Nørregade in central Copenhagen. It maintains a staff of about 100. The artist Bjørn Nørgaard has decorated the interior of the building. He has also designed a proposed glass dome which will create a new public space with views of the city centre. The plans were announced in 2013.\n\nDane Age publishes the magazine Ældre Sagen Nu six times a year. It claims to be read by one third of all Danes aged 50+, placing it in the top three of all Danish magazines.\n\n"}
{"id": "56093251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56093251", "title": "Day of the Police of Belarus", "text": "Day of the Police of Belarus\n\nThe Day of the Police of Belarus (Belarusian:Дзень паліцыі Беларусі, Dzień palicyi Bielarusi) is a professional holiday of the Belarusian police. On March 4, 1917, Mikhail Frunze was appointed the chief of the militia of the city of Minsk. This date is considered to be the birthday of the Belarusian police. The holiday was officially approved by the decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko, on March 26, 1998. It is usually celebrated with a parade of the internal troops in October Square in Minsk.\n\n"}
{"id": "40506888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40506888", "title": "Egypt–Uruguay relations", "text": "Egypt–Uruguay relations\n\nEgypt–Uruguay relations are the relations between Egypt and Uruguay. Egypt has an embassy in Montevideo. Uruguay has an embassy in Cairo and a consulate in Alexandria.\n\nBoth countries are members of the Group of 77.\n\nIn trading relationships, Egypt is an important trading partner for Uruguay, with over USD 26m in soybean sales; Egypt is also an important buyer of Uruguayan lambs. Since 2004 there is a Framework Agreement between Egypt and the Mercosur countries.\n\nMontevideo has a small Ancient Egyptian Museum, held by the Uruguayan Society of Egyptology (established 1980); a notable Uruguayan Egyptologist is Juan José Castillos.\n\nThere is an Egyptian Center for Islamic Culture in Montevideo.\n\n"}
{"id": "28191808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28191808", "title": "Fundamentalisti", "text": "Fundamentalisti\n\nFundamentalisti (näytelmä) is a Finnish play. It was written by Juha Jokela and produced in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "17399746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17399746", "title": "Galaxy 18", "text": "Galaxy 18\n\nGalaxy 18 is a Space Systems/Loral (SS/L) 1300-series hybrid communications satellite owned by Intelsat and located in geosynchronous orbit at 123° W longitude, serving the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Mexico, and Canada with 24 C band, and 24 K band transponders. Galaxy 18 is intended to replace Galaxy 10R which was nearing the end of its design life.\n\nWhile this spacecraft is designed for a 15-year service life on orbit, Sea Launch’s direct insertion into equatorial orbit is expected to yield additional years of fuel life. Galaxy 18 was scheduled to be launched by Sea Launch on May 8, 2008 but was pushed to May 25. It was subsequently moved up to 21 May. The launch took place successfully at 09:43 GMT.\n\nGalaxy 18 is the home of many free-to-air television channels, including approximately three dozen US local stations operated by Equity Broadcasting. K band DVB-S programming may be received by compliant FTA receivers throughout North America using satellite dishes as small as one metre.\n\nAs of 2008, available free-to-air channels at 123°W include:\n\nFree ethnic programming includes Aaj TV, Hum TV, Peace TV and TV One (Pakistan).\n\nAll Equity Media-owned stations are programmed from a central hub in Little Rock, Arkansas, with the satellite feeds used to deliver the complete signals to the individual station transmitter sites and to cable television operators. The future status of these stations is unknown, as Equity Media Holdings filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy on December 8, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "24033661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24033661", "title": "Guardando il sole", "text": "Guardando il sole\n\n\"Guardando il sole\" (English translation: \"Looking into the sun\") was the Swiss entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1968, performed in Italian by Gianni Mascolo.\n\nIn the song Mascolo says that prays he would like to stay to looking into the sun, prays to see the rainbow. He says that he would like to see his lover and says \"I love you\" Finally he would like to hold the hand's lover in his hands even he wasn't a star of his lover.\n\nThe song was performed sixth on the night (following Luxembourg's Chris Bardo & Sophie Garel \"Nous vivrons d'amour\" and preceding Monaco's Line & Willy with \"À chacun sa chanson\"). At the close of voting, it had received 2 points, placing 13th in a field of 17.\n\nIt was succeeded as Swiss representative at the 1969 Contest by Paola Del Medico with \"Bonjour, Bonjour\".\n"}
{"id": "43940946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43940946", "title": "Hotel Terme Millepini", "text": "Hotel Terme Millepini\n\nHotel Terme Millepini is a four-star hotel in Montegrotto Terme, Padua, Italy. It contains 100 rooms and is recognized for having the world's deepest pool, the Y-40, which put it in the Guinness World Records. The hotel was first built in 1997 and renovated in 2013.\n\nY-40 \"The Deep Joy\" pool first opened on 5 June 2014 and was designed by architect Emanuele Boaretto. It is deep, making it the deepest pool in the world. It contains \nof thermal water kept at a temperature of . The pool features underwater caves and a suspended, transparent, underwater tunnel for guests to walk through. It includes platforms at various depths, ranging from to , before the walls of the pool narrow into a well-like funnel which plunges straight down to . The hotel offers tickets to freedive and scuba dive. Italian freediver Umberto Pelizzari first measured the depth before the pool was open.\n\nWhen it opened on 5 June 2014, it was awarded the \"Deepest Swimming Pool for Diving\" by the Guinness World Records. That record was previously held by the Nemo 33 pool in Belgium.\n\n"}
{"id": "3233934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3233934", "title": "Howard 100 News", "text": "Howard 100 News\n\nHoward 100 News was a radio news team established by American radio personality Howard Stern. The group was formed in October 2005 following Stern's announced move from regular radio to Sirius Satellite Radio in 2006. From January 2006 until February 2015, Howard 100 News would broadcast an hourly summary of stories related to Stern, his radio show, and those associated with it, on Howard 100 and Howard 101. The team was downsized in 2006 and again in February 2015, with only a few staffers remaining to follow the lives of the unusual Stern fans and callers known as \"The Wack Pack.\"\n\nOn October 6, 2004, Stern announced the signing of a five-year contract with Sirius Satellite Radio starting from January 2006. The move followed a crackdown on perceived indecency in broadcasting that occurred following the controversy surrounding the Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime show in February. The incident prompted tighter control over content by station owners and managers, leading to Stern feeling \"dead inside\" creatively. The five-year deal allowed Stern to produce up to three channels on Sirius with a $100 million per year budget for all production, staff and programming costs including the construction of a dedicated studio.\nHoward 100 and Howard 101 went live for the first time on September 29, 2005, initially broadcasting silence. As Stern was still under contract with Infinity Broadcasting until January 1, 2006, he could not broadcast any material from the two channels, or talk on its airwaves. Howard 100 News was created by Talk Radio Consultant Walter Sabo, then in-house at Sirius, who worked with Stern on the concept, and CBS News Anchor Jessica Ettinger Gottesman, then an anchor at CBS-owned 1010 WINS-AM all-news radio. Howard 100 News was crafted to sound like 1010 WINS, and aired its first newscast on October 19, 2005, after off-air trial runs. Original content included radio personality Bubba the Love Sponge interviewing Stern's former writer Jackie Martling. The team eventually grew to 17 staffers, many of whom were professional journalists, including Jessica Ettinger, who, while still employed at CBS, used the on-air name Erica Phillips, as well as Lisa Glasberg (known as Lisa G.), and Steve Langford. Just days after being fired from WNYW-TV, the Fox TV station in New York, reporter Penny Crone was hired to work for Howard 100 News. Crone has since left broadcasting and now works as a licensed real estate agent.\n\nIn June 2006, most of the Howard 100 News staffers were let go. Stern said that this was because it needed downsizing. News director Liz Aiello departed to become the vice president and general manager of Martha Stewart Living Radio on Sirius XM. Erica Phillips, who also worked at CBS News under her real name, became news director before assuming program director duties at other Sirius channels. Reporters Penny Crone and George Flowers left the team in January 2007 due to budget cuts. Most of the other staffers were released in February 2015, leaving Shuli Egar and Jon Leiberman, who had developed expertise covering Stern's unusual fans and callers, known as \"The Wack Pack.\" They are continuing those assignments, under News Director Brad Driver. The news team is no longer referred to as Howard 100 News.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10908583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10908583", "title": "Hromada", "text": "Hromada\n\nHromada () is a Ukrainian term for community or public, more precise an association of the people united by mutual interest, position or goal, widely known in Ukraine. Similar terms could be found in Poland and Belarus.\n\nIn history of Ukraine and Belarus such associations appeared first as peasant communes, which gathered their meetings for discussing and resolving current issues. In the 19th century there were number of political organization with the same name.\n\nHromada means not only social association of some people, but in broader sense a symbolic unity of any territorial population or the whole national society.\n\nName \"hromada\" was frequently used by political and social organizations, newspapers in Ukraine.\n\nAt present, the term is more often applied in Ukraine, as a \"territorial commune\" () naming the population of any region. The Constitution of Ukraine and some other laws, including the \"Law on local self-governance\", delegate certain rights and obligations for \"hromada\". But \"hromada\" does not have the rights of a legal entity. In his draft constitutional amendments of June 2014 Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko proposed changing the administrative divisions of Ukraine, which should include regions, districts and \"hromadas\".\n\nIn the History of Ukraine the word was used to denote medieval communes in Ukraine. There also were several political entities such as Hromada (political party) (modern Ukraine) and Hromada (secret society) (in Russian Empire).\n\nMykhailo Drahomanov in his exile was publishing Hromada magazine in Switzerland.\n\n"}
{"id": "3643449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3643449", "title": "Indygenat", "text": "Indygenat\n\nIndygenat or 'naturalization' in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth was the grant of nobility to foreign nobles. To grant \"indygenat\", a foreign noble had to submit proof of their service to the Republic, together with proof of nobility issued by a foreign court, swear an oath of allegiance, and buy land. Grants of \"indygenat\" were limited in the history of Poland to just over 400 foreign nobles. It was granted by the King, after 1641 it was only valid with approval of the General sejm (parliament).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13584832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13584832", "title": "Kenyan migration to the United Kingdom", "text": "Kenyan migration to the United Kingdom\n\nKenyan migration to the United Kingdom has been occurring for many decades. As a result, many people in the UK were born in Kenya, or have Kenyan ancestry. Many Kenyan people who migrated to the UK are of South Asian extraction.\n\nMost Kenyans in the UK are ethnically South Asian Kenyans who, like those in Uganda, were forced out during the late 1960s and early 1970s. This community has a substantial cluster in Leicester and London. The most recent growth may now be coming from ethnically black African Kenyans, mirroring wider trends across the continent of economic migration to the richer industrialised nations. There are also a small number of Kenyan-born people who are the children of British civil servants based there before the end of the Empire.\n\nThe 2001 UK Census recorded 129,633 Kenyan-born British residents. The equivalent figure in 2009 has been estimated at 203,000 by the Office for National Statistics.\n\nThe largest proportion of Kenyan-born British residents are found in the capital, London, where around half of the Kenyan-born population in Britain resides. There are also significant populations in the South East and the East Midlands.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9261582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9261582", "title": "Koulamoutou Airport", "text": "Koulamoutou Airport\n\nKoulamoutou Airport or Koula Moutou Airport is an airport serving Koulamoutou, the capital of the Ogooué-Lolo Province in central Gabon.\n\nThe Koulamoutou non-directional beacon (Ident:KL) is located just north of the runway.\n\nThe airport resides at an elevation of above mean sea level. It has one runway designated 15/33 with an asphalt surface measuring .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35773051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35773051", "title": "Kusu language", "text": "Kusu language\n\nKusu (Kutsu) is a Bantu language of Maniema Province, Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nGengele creole is reported to be partly based on Kusu.\n"}
{"id": "42802402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42802402", "title": "Kwacoco", "text": "Kwacoco\n\nKwacoco, sometimes spelled kwa-coco, is a dish consisting in pureed cocoyam (a root crop originated in Central and South America) wrapped and steamed in banana leaves. It is consumed by different ethnic groups from Cameroon, specially the Kwe people, for whom the traditional meal usually consists in kwacoco served with banga, which is a soup made from a base of palm nut pulp, and smoked fish. It is sometimes referred to as \"kwacoco bible\" when the cocoyam is mixed with other ingredients such as spinach, smoked fish, red oil and spices, and it can also be served along with many other stews and soups.\n\nThe combination of kwacoco and banga is a staple food for rural communities in Cameroon, who rely on the fats and carbohydrates provided by these foods to subsist. During the world food crisis of 2008, local farmers were encouraged to produce more cocoyam, and urban consumers were told to promote its consumption over imported food.\n\n"}
{"id": "34991883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34991883", "title": "L'enfant Roi", "text": "L'enfant Roi\n\nL'enfant Roi is a 2009 film.\n\nOnce upon a time on the African continent, there was a village called Nidiobina that was ravaged by flames. Foudi Mamaya and his wife had no choice but to leave their village in search of food, leaving behind their only son, Bouba, with his grandfather Wali. The old man teaches the boy how to become a man, and Bouba turns out to be a gifted pupil.\n\n"}
{"id": "27847383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27847383", "title": "Luxemburger Volksblatt (1901–02)", "text": "Luxemburger Volksblatt (1901–02)\n\nLuxemburger Volksblatt was a newspaper published in Luxembourg between 1901 and 1902.\n"}
{"id": "21753601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21753601", "title": "Member states of the Union of South American Nations", "text": "Member states of the Union of South American Nations\n\nThere are currently twelve member states of the Union of South American Nations, though six member states suspended their participation in the organization in April 2018.\n\nOf these, two belong to CARICOM, four belong to the Andean Community of Nations (CAN), and four to Mercosur.\n\nSix member states suspended their participation in the organization in April 2018.\n\nOn 28 August 2018, Colombian president Iván Duque announced that foreign minister Carlos Holmes had officially notified Unasur of their intention to leave the bloc, effective in 6 months, denouncing it as an institution created by Hugo Chávez to sideline existing international treaties and referring to it as an accomplice to what they referred to as the dictatorship in Venezuela.\n"}
{"id": "50699686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50699686", "title": "Mitzic Airport", "text": "Mitzic Airport\n\nMitzic Airport is an airport serving the town of Mitzic in the Woleu-Ntem Province of Gabon. The runway is within the village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40432577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40432577", "title": "Molepolole Airport", "text": "Molepolole Airport\n\nMolepolole Airport was an airport serving Molepolole, Botswana.\n\nGoogle Earth Historical Imagery (September 2002) shows a dirt runway. Current Google Maps imagery shows the runway overbuilt with buildings and a large parking area.\n\nOther airports in the area include Thebephatshwa Airport, northwest, and Sir Seretse Khama International Airport, southeast by Gaborone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53985058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53985058", "title": "NSS-806", "text": "NSS-806\n\nNSS-806 (New Skies Satellite 806), before Intelsat 806, is a communications satellite originally operated by Intelsat. Launched in 1998 it was operated in geostationary orbit at a longitude of 47 degrees west for around 15 years. It is currently located in the orbital position of 47.5 degrees west longitude, was initially operated by Intelsat, orbited at 40.5 degrees west, and was purchased by SES World Skies (a subsidiary of SES).\n\nNSS-806 is equipped with 28 transponders in C band and 3 in Ku band, making transmissions for the Americas and parts of Europe. In order to receive the signal it requires a monofocal antenna (LNBF antenna in the center), a LNBF for C band (5150 MHz) and a digital receiver compatible with C band. The NSS-806 emits its signal in circular polarization.\n\nThe launch of NSS-806 made use of a Atlas II rocket flying from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, United States. The launch took place at 00:16 UTC on February 28, 1998, with the spacecraft entering a geosynchronous transfer orbit. NSS-806 subsequently fired its apogee motor to achieve geostationary orbit.\n\nIn July 2017, seven years past its 12 year intended design life, NSS-806 lost the use of 12 of its 39 transponders. NSS-806's replacement, SES-14, was scheduled to be launched in first quarter of 2018 on a SpaceX Falcon 9, and SES predicted that the transponder failure would result in a revenue loss of between 7 and 9 million euros. The following month, SES arranged to swap flights so that SES-12 would launch in January 2018 on an Ariane 5, with SES-12, originally scheduled for that flight, now launching on the Falcon 9 later in Q1.\n\nSES-14 was launched from Kourou on 25 January, 2018, but was placed in an incorrect orbit due to a launch vehicle anomaly. SES reported that the all-electric SES-14 would take four more weeks than originally planned to reach its operating orbit, but that the satellite was healthy and was expected to meet its designed life time. SES-14's in-service date, originally set for July 2018, was expected to be pushed back until at least August 2018.\n"}
{"id": "5224381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5224381", "title": "Oasis Charitable Trust", "text": "Oasis Charitable Trust\n\nOasis Charitable Trust (known as Oasis) is a UK-based Christian registered charity. It was founded by the Reverend Steve Chalke in September 1985. Chalke had been assistant minister at Tonbridge Baptist Church, Kent, for four years. He left this job with the aim of setting up a hostel for homeless young people. Oasis now has over 5,000 staff in the UK as well as thousands more volunteers.\n\nSince its foundation Oasis has also developed into a family of charities now working on four continents (11 countries) around the world, with the goal of delivering housing, education, training, youthwork and healthcare. Oasis is now a significant voluntary sector provider, delivering services for local authorities and national governments, as well as self funded initiatives.\n\nOasis currently works in 51 local neighbourhoods – 35 of which are in the UK – where it seeks to bring together the resources, expertise and infrastructure that it has developed over the years, in order to build on existing strengths and assets in the local community. Oasis' aim is always to serve and respect all people regardless of their gender, race, ethnic origin, religion, age, sexual orientation or physical and mental capability and to work with the whole community to create a neighbourhood in which people feel known, are able to thrive, achieve their God-given potential and build deep and nourishing relationships.\n\nIn 2003, under Steve Chalke's leadership, Oasis, having become responsible for the buildings of Christ Church and Upton Chapel, in Waterloo, central London, worked with the existing members there to form what was initially known as Church.co.uk. Since then it has been renamed as Oasis Church, Waterloo.\n\nChrist Church and Upton Chapel actually began its life as Surrey Chapel in 1783, and was to provide a major influence in the start of the Ragged School Movement – which provided schools for local children from poor homes – and also supported the birth of the Shaftesbury Society, the YMCA and the Bible Society. In the 1800s it was also influential in the anti-slavery movement; William Wilberforce and friends made its building a venue for many of their anti-slavery meetings, and its spire, built in 1867, is named the Lincoln Tower, donated in memory of Abraham Lincoln who was both inspired and supported by in his work to achieve the emancipation of the slaves of North America through the network of friends based in London.\n\nThat same commitment to serve Christ through ‘loving God’ and ‘loving our neighbours as ourselves’ continues to underpin the work of the present day church. Over the years since 2003 a wide range of community services focussed on the half-mile radius around the building, have been developed including a children’s centre, a primary school, a secondary school, various adult education opportunities, a foodbank, a debt advice centre, a community farm, a coffee shop, as well as becoming responsible for the local public library and launching various other youth projects and programmes. Further Oasis churches have developed running alongside the communities of the Oasis Academies in Salford, Oldham, Brightstowe, Bristol, Enfield, Southampton (Lord's Hill & Mayfield), Immingham and Wintringham.\n\nThe Oasis church network has five values which are at the heart of their work; inclusion, interdependence, intimacy, involvement and influence.\n\nStop The Traffik is one of the Oasis subsidiary charities. It is a global coalition working in nearly 100 countries and in partnership with multiple other charitable organisations, businesses and anti-trafficking agencies with the goal of disrupting and preventing human trafficking.\n\nOasis Aquila Housing delivers bespoke and effective services for vulnerably housed and homeless people, in the North East as well as in South London. Annually it supports over 1000 people with housing needs.\n\nThe newest part of the Oasis family, is dedicated to demonstrating the effectiveness of Oasis' model of community engagement and to encouraging and facilitating its replication. The Foundation focuses on commissioning and disseminating research, on informing and influencing social policy but, most importantly, on promoting and supporting the role of local churches in public service delivery as an integrated part of their purpose.\n\nOasis Community Learning is one of OAsis Trust's subsidiary charities. It is an umbrella group to govern the Oasis Academies which are schools classed as academies. The first three Oasis academies in Enfield Lock, Grimsby and Immingham, opened in September 2007, with six more, two in Bristol, two in Southampton, two in Croydon and one in Salford, opening in September 2008. Since then, OAsis has grown to be one of the country's largest Multi-Academy Trusts (MATs) and is currently responsible for 47 schools around England; a mix of primary, secondary and all-through academies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16278961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278961", "title": "Outline of Liberia", "text": "Outline of Liberia\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Liberia:\n\nLiberia – country in West Africa, bordered by Sierra Leone, Guinea, Côte d'Ivoire, and the Atlantic Ocean. Liberia has a hot equatorial climate with most rainfall arriving in summer with harsh harmattan winds in the dry season. Liberia's populated Pepper Coast is composed of mostly mangrove forests while the sparse inland is forested, later opening to a plateau of drier grasslands. Since 1989, Liberia has been in a state of flux witnessing two civil wars, the First Liberian Civil War (1989–1996), and the Second Liberian Civil War (1999–2003), displacing hundreds of thousands of people and devastating the country's economy.\n\n\nGeography of Liberia\n\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of Liberia\n\nCounties of Liberia\n\nDistricts of Liberia\n\nClans of Liberia\n\n\nDemographics of Liberia\n\nPolitics of Liberia\n\nGovernment of Liberia\n\n\n\nCourt system of Liberia\n\nForeign relations of Liberia\n\nThe Republic of Liberia is a member of:\n\nLaw of Liberia\n\nMilitary of Liberia\n\nHistory of Liberia\n\nCulture of Liberia\n\n\nSports in Liberia\n\nEconomy of Liberia\n\nEducation in Liberia\n\nLiberia\n\n"}
{"id": "13864396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13864396", "title": "Party for Democracy and Social Progress", "text": "Party for Democracy and Social Progress\n\nThe Party for Democracy and Social Progress (\"Parti pour la Démocratie et le Progrès Social\") is a political party of Benin. In the parliamentary election held on 31 March 2007, the party won one out of 83 seats.\n"}
{"id": "357264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357264", "title": "Radio Canada International", "text": "Radio Canada International\n\nRadio Canada International (RCI) is the international broadcasting service of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC). Prior to 1970, RCI was known as the CBC International Service. The broadcasting service was also previously referred to as the \"Voice of Canada\". In June 2012, shortwave services were terminated and RCI became accessible exclusively via the Internet. It also reduced to services in five languages (in contrast with the 14 languages it used in 1990). CBC also ended production of RCI news.\n\nThe idea for creating an international radio voice for Canada was first proposed as far back as the 1930s. The CBC Archives website, however, has no archived news stories showing the historical documents where this early shortwave service is discussed. Several studies commissioned by the CBC Board of Governors in the late 1930s had come to the conclusion that Canada needed a radio service to broadcast a Canadian point of view to the world.\n\nBy the early 1940s, this need was also recognized by a series of Parliamentary Broadcasting Committees. Finally, in 1942, Prime Minister William Lyon MacKenzie King announced that Canada would begin a shortwave radio service that would keep members of the Canadian Armed Forces in touch with news and entertainment from home. The CBC International Service became a reality with the signing of an Order-in-Council on September 18, 1942.\n\nBy the end of 1944, both the production facilities and the transmitting plant were ready for test broadcasts. These tests, which began on December 25, 1944, were broadcast to Canadian troops in Europe in both English and French. Psychological warfare in German to Europe began in December 1944 as well. The German section was staffed by refugees such as Helmut Blume and Eric Koch and would go on to broadcast \"denazification\" programming as well as broadcasts aimed at East Germany during the Cold War.\n\nIn early 1945, it was announced that the CBC International Service was ready and would go on the air for real on February 25 using the name the \"Voice of Canada\".\n\nBy 1946, the CBC International Service had expanded to include regular transmissions in Czech and Dutch. Beginning in July, special once-a-week programs were broadcast to Scandinavia in Swedish and Danish and later in Norwegian, as well.\n\nIn November 1946, daily broadcasts started to the Caribbean in English. There were also Sunday night programs broadcast to Cuba, Colombia, Peru and Ecuador in Spanish and to Brazil in Portuguese.\n\nDaily Spanish and Portuguese transmissions began on July 6, 1947. At around the same time as the expansion into the Caribbean and Latin America, the CBC International Service became involved with the newly formed United Nations. United Nations broadcasts through the CBC International Service continued until November 29, 1952, when they were transferred to larger shortwave facilities run by the Voice of America.\n\nThroughout its early years, the CBC International Service concentrated on broadcasting to Western Europe in the aftermath of World War II.\n\nBy the early 1950s several international shortwave stations began to beam programs into the Soviet bloc countries in an effort to circumvent heavy censorship of world news to their citizens.\n\n\nNew English and French programs directed to Africa were added giving the International Service direct coverage to every continent except Asia.\n\nThe CBC International Service played a major role in covering Canada's Centennial celebrations in 1967. Ceremonies from coast to coast were carried over short-wave to the world on July 1, 1967 as Canada marked its 100th birthday.\n\nIn July 1970, the service was renamed Radio Canada International.\n\nThe change took place because it was felt that RCI should have its own identity, separate from the CBC domestic network, even though RCI had just been fully integrated into the CBC system.\n\nOn November 7, 1971, RCI inaugurated its new 250 kW transmitters which were five times more powerful than the existing units. This significantly improved RCI's signal quality in Europe and Africa.\n\nCanada recognized the People's Republic of China in 1971. Before beginning its Mandarin Chinese service, RCI produced a 40-week series called Everyday English which was broadcast in 1988 and early 1989 over local stations in Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou. With an estimated audience of almost 20 million, the course was a huge success.\n\nJust 10 months after beginning the Chinese broadcasts, RCI started a series of Arabic broadcasts to the Middle East. This coincided with the United Nations effort in the Persian Gulf to support the Gulf war, of which Canada was a participant.\n\nIn early 1991, facing further budget deficits, the Government of Canada ordered an across-the-board budget cut. Every ministry and Crown corporation, including the CBC, was required to participate. After evaluating its own budget, the CBC decided it could no longer pay for Radio Canada International without extra funding from the federal government. To save the service, RCI Program Director Allan Familiant announced a major restructuring that took effect on March 25, 1991. As a result, six of the thirteen languages included in the programming (Czech, German, Hungarian, Japanese, Polish, and Portuguese) were discontinued. There was also a short-wave program that went out to sub-Saharan Africa that was discontinued in 2000. \n\nWhile the English and French services survived, all RCI-produced programming (except for news broadcasts) were eliminated and replaced with CBC Domestic network programs. Since then, some RCI-produced programs in English and French have been restored. RCI then began a two audio stream, which became a three audio stream programming delivery structure after 2000.\n\nInitial programming delivery structure (2000-2004)\n\nLater programming delivery structure (2004-2006)\n\nThese audio streams were available from RCI's website as well as across Europe, the Middle East and Northern Africa, utilizing the Hotbird-6 satellite. In late 2006 the online streams were eliminated in favour of a single online multilingual stream.\n\nOn December 1, 2005, Radio Canada International began broadcasting its program across North America as RCIplus, utilizing the Sirius satellite radio system. This was part of a CBC/Radio-Canada selection of satellite channels which included national versions of domestic radio stations from CBC Radio and Première Chaîne.\n\nFollowing an internal review in the summer of 2006, Radio Canada International announced a restructuring of its programming output. Its homepage press release read: \"Radio Canada International is proud to announce that it will launch its new English programming on Monday, October 30th. In the interim, our current shows will be replaced by two programs, from October the 2nd to the 29th.\" On October 30, 2006 Radio Canada International relaunched its English and French programming with a new focus on information for new immigrants to Canada as well as continuing to broadcast to the world, moving away from news and current affairs. It also increased its broadcast hours to 12 hours a week, which can be heard via satellite and online, although its shortwave hours are restricted and remain unchanged.\n\nA new Internet service called RCI Viva acted as an online portal for new Canadian immigrants. RCI Viva is an on-demand listening portal as well as an online stream as RCI Viva, whereas listeners in North America can listen via satellite subscription radio from Sirius Canada entitled RCI plus. Both RCI Viva and RCI plus used a similar multilingual schedule.\n\nListeners in Europe were still able to listen to RCI's three channels in English, French and multilingual. An interim program, on the English-language service during October called \"Canada Today in Transition\" was broadcast as a single program across Europe, Africa and the Middle East, replacing the two regular editions for Europe and Africa. It was hosted by ex-\"Canada Today for Africa\" presenter Carmel Kilkenny. The new two-hour English-language flagship program is called The Link and is hosted by Marc Montgomery, replacing RCI's previous weekday programs \"Canada Today\", \"Media Zone\", \"Sci-Tech File\", and \"Business Sense\". Its French-language counterpart is called Tam-Tam Canada and is presented by Raymond Desmarteau, which replaced \"Le Canada en direct\", \"Le sens des affaires\" and its previous current-affairs based shows. Programs in Arabic, Russian, Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese and Ukrainian were relatively unchanged. \"The Link\" was also repeated on CBC Radio One, as part of the \"CBC Radio Overnight\" lineup.\n\nIn November 2006, Radio Sweden's medium-wave broadcast from Solsberg ceased regular transmissions as a result of a modification in its shortwave time-share agreement which had Radio Sweden to broadcast to North America via RCI's transmitters in Sackville and RCI to Europe via Radio Sweden until Sackville's closure in 2012.\n\nOn April 4, 2012 an approximate 80% budget cut to the International service from $12.3 million a year to $2.3 million a year was announced by RCI Director Hélène Parent. In the 2012 federal budget, a 10% funding reduction was announced for the domestic broadcaster, CBC/Radio-Canada. The Crown corporation subsequently translated this to an 80% reduction to the International service under its financial and managerial control.\n\nThese changes effectively ended broadcasting by RCI via shortwave and satellite. RCI News service (as a separate news service from the CBC/Radio-Canada derived news) ended, and the Brazilian and Russian sections closed.\n\nAll shortwave transmissions (including those from the Sackville Relay Station in Sackville, New Brunswick), satellite, and all broadcast programming ended on June 26, 2012. In addition:\n\n\nHistory of RCI Language Broadcasting Services\n\nRCI's interval signal is the first four notes of \"O Canada\" played on a piano, followed by \"Radio Canada International\" pronounced in English, and then French.\n\nThe main studios for RCI have been in Montreal since RCI was created in 1943–44.\n\nRCI as a corporate entity (separate from its broadcasting operations) has also been based in Montreal since its inception in the 1940s.\n\nFigures are Canadian dollars (CAD).\nRCI's Gross Cost per Canadian resident (per year) was: CAD0.38 (2003, 2004).\n\nNote: there are 168 hours in a week (24 hours × 7 days).\n\nRCI's Programming Production (historical)\n\nIn the 1990s RCI's programming output peaked\n\nRCI's current satellite schedule can be found at\n\nAs of May 15, 2012 space segment delivery of RCI programming ceased.\n\nThe Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, RCI's parent, owned and operated the Sackville transmitter site (CKCX). The site was on the Tantramar Marshes, several kilometres east of Sackville, New Brunswick. RCI leased or bartered its spare transmission capacity with other international broadcasters. Sackville was used by Radio Japan, China Radio International, the Voice of Vietnam, the BBC World Service, Deutsche Welle and Radio Korea as part of a transmitter-time exchange agreement. Canada's only high-power shortwave relay station, Sackville also broadcast CBC North to northern Quebec and Nunavut.\nThe CBC-SRC network runs three 1 kW relays of domestic radio, one of which originated from Sackville. Sackville's northern-hemisphere transmission-targeting capabilities were similar to those of the Wertachtal relay station in Bavaria. Its site layout was similar to Wertachtal's, with a few differences. Wertachtal has three arms of HRS type antennas spaced at about 120 degrees, allowing for near-360-degree global coverage.\n\nThe Sackville site was built in 1938 for local CBC broadcasting over CBA. Five years later, two RCA shortwave transmitters were installed. In 1970, all CBC operations moved to Moncton, New Brunswick for the installation of new Collins transmitters. During the mid-1980s, the RCA transmitters were replaced by three Harris transmitters.\n\nWith the end of Radio Canada International's shortwave service in June 2012, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation tried to sell the Sackville transmitter complex to another international broadcaster or a wind-farm company. According to CBC transmission director Martin Marcotte, \"[The Sackville complex] will be fairly costly to dismantle and as a last resort we would dismantle the facility, return it to bare land as it was when we first acquired that site.\" On October 30, the CRTC granted a CBC request to revoke CKCX's broadcast license effective November 1. When no purchase offers were received for the complex, its antennas were dismantled and the transmission towers demolished in 2014. In 2017, the property was sold to a non-profit consortium of New Brunswick Mi'kmaq bands known as Mi'gmawe'l Tplu'taqnn. The intend use of the property was not disclosed.\n\nThe Sackville facility was computerized in a main control room. Frequencies, antennas and input feeds are switched in accordance with internationally agreed-on schedules which were renegotiated twice per year. In 2012, there were nine transmitters in operation: three 100 kW, three 250 kW and three 300 kW. Although the site was capable of using 500 kW transmitters, the end of the Cold War and improved shortwave-frequency coordination made an upgrade to 500 kW unnecessary.\n\nNew Brown Boveri digital transmitters used phase-shift keying (PSK) and had 250 kW output. Newer Thales 300 kW transmitters could use amplitude and phase-shift keying (APSK), the design successor partially based on PSK modulation).\n\nAll modern Sackville shortwave transmitters employed dynamic carrier control (DCC), automatically reducing the carrier wave in the presence of low-level (or no) audio.\nWith no audio (silence) the carrier power was reduced by 50 percent; a 250 kW transmitter put out a carrier of 125 kW during audio pauses, saving power.\n\n\n\n\n\nSite of the Week June 7, 2012: Radio Canada International, Sackville, NB, 1998"}
{"id": "23651443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23651443", "title": "Rock Scorpion Books", "text": "Rock Scorpion Books\n\nRock Scorpion Books was an independent publishing forum run from the United Kingdom. It was formed in 2006 and specialised in publishing fiction and non-fiction which raised awareness about the British overseas territory of Gibraltar. Rock Scorpion books ceased to exist in 2013. Several of their former titles are currently published by Createspace International. \n\nTitles included \"Rock Black: Ten Gibraltarian Stories\" () and 'The Pearls of Morocco: Bresciano in Africa\" ().\n"}
{"id": "10374989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10374989", "title": "Sabur Printing Press", "text": "Sabur Printing Press\n\nThe Sabur Printing Press (SPP) is the exclusive printing company in Eritrea. Its headquarters are located in the national capital, Asmara.\n\nThe firm was established in 1997. Its press provides printing services for private individuals, as well as government organizations.\n"}
{"id": "13993862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13993862", "title": "Slavery in the Ottoman Empire", "text": "Slavery in the Ottoman Empire\n\nSlavery in the Ottoman Empire was a legal and significant part of the Ottoman Empire's economy and society. The main sources of slaves were war captives and organized enslavement expeditions in North and East Africa, Eastern Europe, the Balkans, and the Caucasus. It has been reported that the selling price of slaves fell after large military operations. In Constantinople (present-day Istanbul), the administrative and political center of the Empire, about a fifth of the population consisted of slaves in 1609. Sixteenth- and 17th-century customs statistics suggest that Istanbul's additional slave import from the Black Sea may have totaled around 2.5 million from 1450 to 1700.\n\nEven after several measures to ban slavery in the late 19th century, the practice continued largely unabated into the early 20th century. As late as 1908, female slaves were still sold in the Ottoman Empire. Sexual slavery was a central part of the Ottoman slave system throughout the history of the institution.\n\nA member of the Ottoman slave class, called a \"\" in Turkish, could achieve high status. Castrated harem guards and janissaries are some of the better known positions a slave could hold, but slaves were actually often at the forefront of Ottoman politics. A large percentage of officials in the Ottoman government were bought slaves raised free, and integral to the success of the Ottoman Empire from the 14th century into the 19th. Many officials themselves owned a large number of slaves, although the Sultan himself owned by far the most. By raising and specially training slaves as officials in palace schools such as Enderun, the Ottomans created administrators with intricate knowledge of government and fanatic loyalty.\n\nIn the mid-14th century, Murad I built an army of slaves, referred to as the \"Kapıkulu\". The new force was based on the Sultan's right to a fifth of the war booty, which he interpreted to include captives taken in battle. The captive slaves converted to Islam and trained in the sultan's personal service. The \"devşirme\" system could be considered a form of slavery because the Sultans had absolute power over them. However, as the 'servant' or 'kul' of the Sultan had high status within Ottoman society, they could become the highest officers of state and the military elite, and all taken children (but not their parents) were well remunerated.\n\nSlaves were traded in special marketplaces called \"Esir\" or \"Yesir\" that were located in most towns and cities. It is said that Sultan Mehmed II \"the Conqueror\" established the first Ottoman slave market in Constantinople in the 1460s, probably where the former Byzantine slave market had stood. According to Nicolas de Nicolay, there were slaves of all ages and both sexes, they were displayed naked to be thoroughly checked – especially children and young women – by possible buyers.\n\nIn the \"devşirme\", which connotes \"draft\", \"blood tax\" or \"child collection\", young Christian boys from the Balkans and Anatolia were taken from their homes and families, converted to Islam, and enlisted into the most famous branch of the \"Kapıkulu\", the Janissaries, a special soldier class of the Ottoman army that became a decisive faction in the Ottoman invasions of Europe. Most of the military commanders of the Ottoman forces, imperial administrators, and \"de facto\" rulers of the Empire, such as Sokollu Mehmed Pasha, were recruited in this way. By 1609, the Sultan's \"Kapıkulu\" forces increased to about 100,000.\n\nA Hutterite chronicle reports that in 1605, during the Long Turkish War, some 240 Hutterites were abducted from their homes in Upper Hungary by the Ottoman Turkish army and their Tatar allies, and sold into Ottoman slavery.\n\nDomestic slavery was not as common as military slavery. On the basis of a list of estates belonging to members of the ruling class kept in Edirne between 1545 and 1659, the following data was collected: out of 93 estates, 41 had slaves. The total number of slaves in the estates was 140; 54 female and 86 male. 134 of them bore Muslim names, 5 were not defined, and 1 was a Christian woman. Some of these slaves appear to have been employed on farms. In conclusion, the ruling class, because of extensive use of warrior slaves and because of its own high purchasing capacity, was undoubtedly the single major group keeping the slave market alive in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nRural slavery was largely a phenomenon endemic to the Caucasus region, which was carried to Anatolia and Rumelia after the Circassian migration in 1864. Conflicts frequently emerged within the immigrant community and the Ottoman Establishment intervened on the side of the slaves at selective times.\n\nThe Crimean Khanate maintained a massive slave trade with the Ottoman Empire and the Middle East until the early eighteenth century. In a series of slave raids euphemistically known as the \"harvesting of the steppe\", Crimean Tatars enslaved East Slavic peasants. The Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and Russia suffered a series of Tatar invasions, the goal of which was to loot, pillage, and capture slaves into \"\"jasyr\". The borderland area to the south-east was in a state of semi-permanent warfare until the 18th century. It is estimated that up to 75% of the Crimean population consisted of slaves or freed slaves.\n\nA study of the slave market of Ottoman Crete produces details about the prices of slaves. Factors such as age, skin color, virginity etc. significantly influenced prices. The most expensive slaves were those between 10 and 35 years of age, with the highest prices for European virgin girls 13–25 years of age and teenaged boys. The cheaper slaves were those with disabilities and sub-Saharan Africans. Prices in Crete ranged between 65 and 150 \"esedi guruş\" (see Kuruş). But even the lowest prices were affordable to only high income persons. For example, in 1717 a 12-year-old boy with mental disabilities was sold for 27 \"guruş\", an amount that could buy in the same year of lamb meat, of bread or of milk. In 1671 a female slave was sold in Crete for 350 \"guruş\", while at the same time the value of a large two-floor house with a garden in Chania was 300 \"guruş\". There were various taxes to be paid on the importation and selling of slaves. One of them was the \"pençik\" or \"penç-yek\"\" tax, literally meaning \"one fifth\". This taxation was based on verses of the Quran, according to which one fifth of the spoils of war belonged to God, to the Prophet and his family, to orphans, to those in need and to travelers. The Ottomans probably started collecting \"pençik\" at the time of Sultan Murad I (1362–1389). \"Pençik\" was collected both in money and in kind, the latter including slaves as well. Tax was not collected in some cases of war captives. With war captives, slaves were given to soldiers and officers as a motive to participate in war.\n\nThe recapture of runaway slaves was a job for private individuals called \"yavacis\". Whoever managed to find a runaway slave would collect a fee of \"good news\" from the \"yavaci\" and the latter took this fee plus other expenses from the slaves' owner. Slaves could also be rented, inherited, pawned, exchanged or given as gifts.\n\nFor centuries, large vessels on the Mediterranean relied on European galley slaves supplied by Ottoman and Barbary slave traders. Hundreds of thousands of Europeans were captured by Barbary pirates and sold as slaves in North Africa and the Ottoman Empire between the 16th and 19th centuries. These slave raids were conducted largely by Arabs and Berbers rather than Ottoman Turks. However, during the height of the Barbary slave trade in the 16th and 17th centuries, the Barbary states were subject to Ottoman jurisdiction and were ruled by Ottoman pashas. Furthermore, many slaves captured by the Barbary corsairs were sold eastward into Ottoman territories before, during, and after Barbary's period of Ottoman rule.\nAs there were restrictions on the enslavement of Muslims and \"People of the Book\" (Jews and Christians), pagan areas in Africa were a popular source of slaves. Known as the Zanj (Bantu), these slaves were mainly drawn from the African Great Lakes region as well as Central Africa. The Zanj were employed in households, on plantations and in the army as slave-soldiers. Some could ascend to high rank officials but in general were inferior to European and Caucasian slaves.\n\nOne of the only ways for Zanj slaves to serve in high ranking roles was to be one of the African eunuchs of the Ottoman palace. This position was used as a political tool by Sultan Murad III as an attempt to destabilize the Grand Vizier by introducing another source of power to the capital.\n\nAfter being purchased by a member of the Ottoman court, Mullah Ali was introduced to the first chief Black eunuch, Mehmed Aga. Due to Mehmed Aga’s influence, Mullah Ali was able to make connections with prominent colleges and tutors of the day, including Hoca Sadeddin Efendi, the tutor of Murad III. Through the network he had built with the help of his education and the black eunuchs, Mullah Ali secured several positions early on. He worked as a teacher in Istanbul, a deputy judge, and an inspector of royal endowments. In 1620, Mullah Ali was appointed as chief judge of the capital and in 1621 he became the \"kadiasker\", or chief judge, of the European provinces and the first black man to sit on the imperial council. At this time, he had risen to such power that a French ambassador described him as the person who truly ran the empire.\n\nAlthough Mullah Ali was often challenged because of his blackness and his connection to the African eunuchs, he was able to defend himself through his powerful network of support and his own intellectual productions. As a prominent scholar, he wrote an influential book in which he used logic and the Quran to debunk stereotypes and prejudice against dark-skinned people and delegitimize arguments for why Africans should be slaves. \n\nToday, tens of thousands of Afro Turks, the descendants of the Zanj slaves in the Ottoman Empire, continue to live in modern Turkey. Mustafa Olpak who is an Afro-Turk, founded the first officially recognised organisation of Afro Turks, the Africans' Culture and Solidarity Society (Afrikalılar Kültür ve Dayanışma Derneği) in Ayvalık. Olpak claims that in modern Turkey only about 2000 African former slaves have survived and live in modern Turkey.\n\nThe concubines of the Ottoman Sultan consisted chiefly of purchased slaves. The Sultan's concubines were generally of Christian origin. The mother of a Sultan, though technically a slave, received the extremely powerful title of \"Valide Sultan\" which raised her to the status of a ruler of the Empire (see Sultanate of Women). One notable example was Kösem Sultan, daughter of a Greek Christian priest, who dominated the Ottoman Empire during the early decades of the 17th century. Roxelana (also known as \"Hürrem Sultan\"), another notable example, was the favorite wife of Suleiman the Magnificent.\nThe concubines were guarded by enslaved eunuchs, themselves often from pagan Africa. The eunuchs were headed by the Kizlar Agha (\"agha of the [slave] girls\"). While Islamic law forbade the emasculation of a man, Ethiopian Christians had no such compunctions; thus, they enslaved and emasculated members of territories to the south and sold the resulting eunuchs to the Ottoman Porte. The Coptic Orthodox Church participated extensively in the slave trade of eunuchs. Coptic priests sliced the penis and testicles off boys around the age of eight in a castration operation.\n\nThe eunuch boys were then sold in the Ottoman Empire. The majority of Ottoman eunuchs endured castration at the hands of the Copts at Abou Gerbe monastery on Mount Ghebel Eter. Slave boys were captured from the African Great Lakes region and other areas in Sudan like Darfur and Kordofan then sold to customers in Egypt. During the operation, the Coptic clergyman chained the boys to tables and after slicing their sexual organs off, stuck bamboo catheters into the genital area, then submerged them in sand up to their necks. The recovery rate was 10 percent. The resulting eunuchs fetched large profits in contrast to eunuchs from other areas.\n\nCircassians, Syrians, and Nubians were the three primary races of females who were sold as sex slaves in the Ottoman Empire. Circassian girls were described as fair and light-skinned and were frequently enslaved by Crimean Tatars then sold to Ottomans. They were the most expensive, reaching up to 500 pounds sterling and the most popular with the Turks. Second in popularity were Syrian girls, with their dark eyes, dark hair, and light brown skin, and came largely from coastal regions in Anatolia. Their price could reach up to 30 pounds sterling. They were described as having \"good figures when young\". Nubian girls were the cheapest and least popular, fetching up to 20 pounds sterling.\n\nThroughout the 18th and 19th centuries, sexual slavery was not only central to Ottoman practice but a critical component of imperial governance and elite social reproduction. Dhimmi boys taken in the \"devşirme\" could also become sexual slaves, though usually they worked in places like bathhouses (hammam) and coffeehouses. They became \"tellaks\" (masseurs), \"köçeks\" (cross-dressing dancers) or \"sāqīs\" (wine pourers) for as long as they were young and beardless.\n\nResponding the influence and pressure of European countries in the 19th century, the Empire began taking steps to curtail the slave trade, which had been legally valid under Ottoman law since the beginning of the empire. One of the important campaigns against Ottoman slavery and slave trade was conducted in the Caucasus by the Russian authorities.\n\nA series of decrees were promulgated that initially limited the slavery of white persons, and subsequently that of all races and religions. In 1830, a \"firman\" of Sultan Mahmud II gave freedom to white slaves. This category included Circassians, who had the custom of selling their own children, enslaved Greeks who had revolted against the Empire in 1821, and some others. Attempting to suppress the practice, another \"firman\" abolishing the trade of Georgians and Circassians was issued in October, 1854. \n\nLater, slave trafficking was prohibited in practice by enforcing specific conditions of slavery in \"sharia\", Islamic law, even though sharia permitted slavery in principle. For example, under one provision, a person who was captured could not be kept a slave if they had already been Muslim prior to their capture. Moreover, they could not be captured legitimately without a formal declaration of war, and only the Sultan could make such a declaration. As late Ottoman Sultans wished to halt slavery, they did not authorize raids for the purpose of capturing slaves, and thereby made it effectively illegal to procure new slaves, although those already in slavery remained slaves.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire and 16 other countries signed the 1890 Brussels Conference Act for the suppression of the slave trade. Clandestine slavery persisted into the early 20th century. A circular by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in October 1895 warned local authorities that some steamships stripped Zanj sailors of their \"certificates of liberation\" and threw them into slavery. Another circular of the same year reveals that some newly freed Zanj slaves were arrested based on unfounded accusations, imprisoned and forced back to their lords.\n\nAn instruction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the Vali of Bassora of 1897 ordered that the children of liberated slaves be issued separate certificates of liberation to avoid both being enslaved themselves and separated from their parents. George Young, Second Secretary of the British Embassy in Constantinople, wrote in his \"Corpus of Ottoman Law\", published in 1905, that at time of writing the slave trade in the Empire was practiced only as contraband. The trade continued until World War I. Henry Morgenthau, Sr., who served as the U.S. Ambassador in Constantinople from 1913 until 1916, reported in his \"Ambassador Morgenthau's Story\" that there were gangs that traded white slaves during those years. He also wrote that Armenian girls were sold as slaves during the Armenian Genocide of 1915.\n\nThe Young Turks adopted an anti-slavery stance in the early 20th century. Sultan Abdul Hamid II's personal slaves were freed in 1909 but members of his dynasty were allowed to keep their slaves. Mustafa Kemal Atatürk ended legal slavery in the Turkish Republic, but in an ambivalent manner. Turkey waited until 1933 to ratify the 1926 League of Nations convention on the suppression of slavery. Illegal sales of girls were reported in the early 1930s. Legislation explicitly prohibiting slavery was adopted in 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "17638385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17638385", "title": "Svadbarsko", "text": "Svadbarsko\n\nSvadbarsko (Свадбарско) or \"Wedding dance\" in English is a Macedonian oro from the region of Veles.\n\nIt is a man dance with steady ad peaceful movements on whole feet. The dancers are holding shoulders and begin their dance in a position of a half circle. The dance rhythm is 2/4.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10953798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10953798", "title": "The Bridge at Narni", "text": "The Bridge at Narni\n\nThe Bridge at Narni (in French: \"Le pont de Narni\") is an 1826 painting of the Ponte d'Augusto at Narni by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. The painting is currently on display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris. \n\nThe painting is a product of one of Corot's youthful sojourns in Italy, and, in Kenneth Clark's words, \"as free as the most vigorous Constable\". It was painted in September 1826, and was the basis for the larger and more finished \"View at Narni\", which was exhibited at the Salon of 1827, and is now in the National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa.\n\nThe view was not a novel one: in 1821 Corot's teacher, Achille-Etna Michallon had drawn the same scene, as had Corot's friend Ernst Fries in 1826. Corot's study is a reconciliation of traditional and plein air painting objectives:\n\n\"So deeply did Corot admire Claude and Poussin, so fully did he understand their work, that from the outset he viewed nature in their terms...In less than a year (since his arrival in Rome) he had realized his goal of closing the gap between the empirical freshness of outdoor painting and the organizing principles of classical landscape composition.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27436513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27436513", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1208", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1208\n\nUnited Nations Security Council resolution 1208, adopted unanimously on 19 November 1998, after recalling Resolution 1170 (1998) on Africa, the Council discussed the treatment and status of refugees on the continent.\n\nIt was important that refugees were protected and that the humanitarian character of refugee camps preserved. The Security Council recognised the experience African countries had in dealing with refugees and refugee camps. There was insecurity in some camps due to the presence of armed groups which did not qualify for international protection, differences within the refugee population, crime, banditry, and the flow of weapons. It emphasised the need to assist African countries to provide security for refugees, maintain the humanitarian character of refugee camps and protect vulnerable groups such as women, children and the elderly.\n\nThe Security Council stressed the importance of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees of 1951 and of particular relevance was the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa. The host of a refugee camp was responsible for its security and humanitarian nature. In this regard, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, OAU, the international community and regional and subregional organisations were urged to assist African countries hosting refugee populations while the Secretary-General Kofi Annan had to respond to requests concerning the implementation of human rights and international humanitarian law. Finally, he was also asked to consider the establishment of a new category within the United Nations Trust Fund for Improving Preparedness for Conflict Prevention and Peacekeeping in Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218339", "title": "West Indies Federation", "text": "West Indies Federation\n\nThe West Indies Federation, also known as the West Indies, the Federation of the West Indies or the West Indian Federation, was a short-lived political union that existed from 3 January 1958 to 31 May 1962. Various islands in the Caribbean that were colonies of the United Kingdom, including Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, Jamaica, and those on the Leeward and Windward Islands, came together to form the Federation, with its capital in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. The expressed intention of the Federation was to create a political unit that would become independent from Britain as a single state—possibly similar to the Canadian Confederation, Australian Commonwealth, or Central African Federation; however, before that could happen, the Federation collapsed due to internal political conflicts over how the Federation itself would be governed or how it would viably function. The territories that would have become part of the Federation eventually became the nine contemporary sovereign states of Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago; with Anguilla, Montserrat, the Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos Islands becoming British overseas territories. British Guiana (Guyana) and British Honduras (Belize) held observer status within the West Indies Federation.\n\nThe total population of the West Indies Federation was between 3 and 4 million people, with the majority being of black West African descent. Minorities included Indians from the subcontinent (called East Indians), Europeans, Chinese, and Caribs. There was also a large population of mixed descent (mainly mulattos, but also Afro-Indian, Euro-Indian and mixed-Chinese). In terms of religion, most of the population was Protestant, with significant numbers of Catholics and some Hindus and Muslims (both almost exclusively from the East Indian population).\n\nThe West Indies Federation (or just West Indies) consisted of around 24 main inhabited islands and approximately 220–230 minor offshore islands, islets and cays (some inhabited, some uninhabited). The largest island was Jamaica, located in the far northwest of the Federation. To the southeast lay the second largest island, Trinidad, followed by Barbados (in terms of population), located at the eastern extremity of the Federation.\n\nThe Federation spanned all the island groupings in the Caribbean:\n\nAt its widest (west to east), from the Cayman Islands to Barbados it spanned some (and across approximately 22 degrees of longitude) and from the Turks and Caicos Islands in the north, to the Icacos Point, Trinidad in the south it extended (and across 12 degrees of latitude). However, most of the area along either of these distances was taken up by open water (with the exception of some of the other islands lying in between). By comparison Great Britain stretches across nearly 10 degrees of latitude and Spain extends across almost 20 degrees of longitude. Even though the West Indies was spread across such a vast area, most of its provinces were mostly contiguous and clustered fairly close together in the Eastern Caribbean, with the obvious exceptions of Jamaica, the Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos Islands.\n\nMost of the islands have mountainous interiors surrounded by narrow coastal plains. The exceptions were Anguilla, Antigua, Barbuda, the Cayman Islands, the Turks and Caicos Islands (which are all fairly flat), and Trinidad (which has a large mountain range in the north and a small central mountain range in the interior of the otherwise flat island). The narrow coastal plains as well as historical trade is the main reason why almost all of the major settlements (cities and towns) of the Federation were located on the coast. Chief towns included Kingston, Port of Spain, Bridgetown, Spanish Town, Montego Bay, Mandeville, Castries, Roseau, St. George's, Kingstown, St. John's, and Basseterre.\n\nThe climate in all the islands is tropical, with hot and humid weather, although inland regions in the larger islands have more temperate climates. Regions falling within the rain shadows (southern coasts of Jamaica and Trinidad and eastern coasts of the Lesser Antilles) are relatively drier. There are two seasons annually: the dry season for the first six months of the year, and the rainy season (also known as the hurricane season) in the second half of the year. Many of the islands fall within the traditional hurricane belt, with the exception of Trinidad (although it occasionally experiences low latitude hurricanes) and thus are at risk from potential wind and flood damage.\n\nBritain classified the Federation as being part of its \"Caribbean and North Atlantic Territories\" region which was shared alongside other possessions such as Bermuda.\n\nThe Federation today is geographically considered to be part of the North American continent as all of its islands are in and around the Caribbean, even though Trinidad is located just offshore from South America and lies on the same continental shelf. \"See Bicontinental countries.\"\n\nHistorically \"West Indian\" nations The Bahamas, Bermuda, Belize, the British Virgin Islands, and Guyana opted not to join because they believed that their future lay with association with North America (for both the Bahamas and Bermuda), Central America, and the United States Virgin Islands. Guyana opted not to join at that time due to its ongoing political and internal struggles for independence from the UK, started in the 1950s. At issue were the newly formed political party with socialist leanings, at the height of the cold war. It had hoped to join the federation once the issues were resolved. The Bahamas did participate in the 1960 West Indies Federation Games, with a future prime minister of the Bahamas, Perry Christie, as an athlete. There was however possible interest by Guyana in a very loose re-attempted Caribbean Federation around 1971.\n\nThe Federation was an internally self-governing, federal state made up of ten provinces, all British colonial possessions. The federation was created by the United Kingdom in 1958 from most of the British West Indies. Britain intended that the Federation would shortly become a fully independent state, thus simultaneously satisfying the demands for independence from all the colonies in the region. However, the project was doomed by political squabbling among the provinces, and the Federation never achieved full sovereignty.\n\nThe legal basis for the federation was the British Caribbean Federation Act 1956, and the date of formation—January 3, 1958—was set by an Order in Council proclaimed in 1957.\n\nAs with all British colonies of the period, Queen Elizabeth II was the head of state, and The Crown was vested with the legislative authority for matters concerning executive affairs, defence and the financing of the Federation. Her representative, Patrick Buchan-Hepburn, 1st Baron Hailes, was given the title of Governor-General rather than that of Governor more typical for a British colony. The title may have reflected the federal nature of the state, or indicated the expectations that the Federation would soon become independent. The Governor-General also had the full power by the British Government to veto any laws passed by the Federation.\n\nThe Federal Parliament was bicameral, consisting of a nominated Senate and a popularly elected House of Representatives. The Senate consisted of nineteen members. These members were appointed by the Governor General, after consulting the respective territorial governments. Two members represented each unit (with only one from Montserrat). The House of Representatives had 45 total elected members – Jamaica had seventeen seats, Trinidad and Tobago ten seats, Barbados five seats, Montserrat one seat, and the remaining islands two seats each.\n\nHowever the government (executive) would be a Council of State, not a Cabinet. It would be presided over by the Governor-General and consist of the Prime Minister and ten other officials.\n\nThere was also a Federal Supreme Court consisting of a Chief Justice and three (later five) other Justices. The Federal Supreme Court itself was the successor to the West Indian Court of Appeal (established in 1919) and had jurisdiction over the same territories (Barbados, British Guiana, the Leeward Islands (including the British Virgin Islands), Trinidad & Tobago and the Windward Islands) in addition to Jamaica and its dependencies. Under the 1956 British Caribbean Federation Act though, the Federal Supreme Court did not have any jurisdiction over British Honduras, as the British Honduras (Court of Appeal) Act, 1881, (which allowed for appeals from the British Honduras Supreme Court to go the Privy Council or the Supreme Court of Jamaica) was repealed under it (although the arrangement for appeals to the Supreme Court of Jamaica had generally ceased in 1911 anyway).\n\nSir Stanley Eugene Gomes, Chief Justice of Trinidad and Tobago, was appointed Chief Justice of the Federation in August, 1961.\n\nThree member states were proposed as hosts for the capital city of the federation: Jamaica, Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago. Earlier in the federal negotiations the general opinion had been that the capital should be one of the smaller islands so that the capital would be in a neutral position to the larger territories and it would be able to inject some buoyancy into one of the (then) poorer economies. To this end, Grenada was \"tentatively\" selected as the member state to host the capital but this was abandoned after protests from some of the parties involved, and at the London Conference the smaller islands were ruled out for consideration. Within Trinidad and Tobago the first proposed site was Chaguaramas, a few miles west of Port of Spain, but the site was part of a United States naval base. In practice, Port of Spain served as the \"de facto\" federal capital for the duration of the federation's existence.\n\nIn preparation for the first federal elections, two Federation-wide parties were organised as confederations of local political parties. Both were organised by Jamaican politicians: the West Indies Federal Labour Party by Norman Manley, and the Democratic Labour Party by Alexander Bustamante. In broad terms, the WIFLP consisted of the urban-based parties throughout the Federation, while the DLP consisted of the rural-based parties. A small third party, the Federal Democratic Party was founded in November 1957 by a group of Trinidadians, although it did not win any seats.\n\nThe platforms for the two major national parties were similar in many respects. Both advocated maintaining and strengthening ties with the United Kingdom, United States, and Canada (countries with which the islands had strong cultural and economic links); encouraging and expanding tourism; working to bring British Guiana and British Honduras into the Federation and to obtain loans, financial aid, and technical assistance. Despite these similarities, there were differences. The WIFLP had advocated the encouragement of agriculture while the DLP had promised a climate favourable to both private industry and labour, development of human and economic resources. The WIFLP promised to encourage the Bahamas (in addition to British Guiana and British Honduras) to join the Federation, whereas the DLP did not. The WIFLP also campaigned to establish a central bank for the extension of credit resources and advocated a democratic socialist society and full internal self-government for all the unit territories, whilst avoiding the issues of freedom of movement and a customs union. The DLP said nothing about full internal self-government, attacked socialism, wished to avoid high taxation (via loans and technical aid) and emphasized West Indian unity, freedom of worship and speech, and encouragement of trade unions.\n\nFederal elections were held on March 25, 1958. The WIFLP won the election, winning 26 seats while the DLP carried 19 seats. The bulk of the WIFLP seats came from the smaller islands while the DLP carried the majority in Jamaica and Trinidad & Tobago. The DLP won 11 of the Jamaican seats and 6 of the Trinidadian seats. In appointing the Senate, Governor General Lord Hailes realized that only the St Vincent island government was DLP controlled and as a result the Senate was going to be disproportionately pro WIFLP. In a controversial decision, he contacted the opposition DLP groups in Jamaica and Trinidad, and appointed one DLP senator from each of those islands. Thus the Senate consisted of a total of 15 WIFLP members and 4 DLP members.\n\nWIFLP leader Sir Grantley Adams of Barbados became Prime Minister. The selection of Adams as the Prime Minister was indicative of the problems the Federation would face. The expected leader of the WIFLP was Norman Manley, Premier of Jamaica, and the next logical choice was Dr. Eric Williams, Premier of Trinidad and Tobago. However, neither had contested the Federal elections, preferring to remain in control of their respective island power bases. This suggested that the leaders of the two most important provinces did not see the Federation as viable. Similarly, Alexander Bustamante, the Jamaican founder of the DLP, also declined to contest the Federal election, leaving the party leadership to the Trinidadian Ashford Sinanan. The absence of the leading Jamaican politicians from any role at the federal level was to undermine the Federation's unity.\n\nOther members of the Council of State included:\n\nThe Federation also had a number of units deemed to be common services for the entire federation, these were:\n\nThe politics of the embryonic Federation were wrecked by struggles between the federal government and the provincial governments, and between the two largest provinces (Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago) and the smaller provinces.\n\nThe West Indies Federation had an unusually weak federal structure. For instance, its provinces were not contained in a single customs union. Thus, each province functioned as a separate economy, complete with tariffs, largely because the smaller provinces were afraid of being overwhelmed by the large islands' economies. Also, complete freedom of movement within the Federation was not implemented, as the larger provinces were worried about mass migration from the smaller islands. In this sense, the current European Union can be said to have implemented a more unified economic space than the West Indian attempt.\n\nNor could the federal government take its component states to task. The initial federal budget was quite small, limiting the federal government's ability to use its financial largesse as a carrot. It was dependent upon grants from the United Kingdom and from its member states. The provincial budgets of Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago were both larger than the federal budget. This led to repeated requests for those states to provide greater financing to the federal government. These requests were not well received, as Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago together already contributed 85 percent of the federal revenue, in roughly equal portions.\n\nFurthermore, the office of the Prime Minister was a weak one. Unlike other Westminster systems with Prime Ministers, the West Indian Federation's PM could not dissolve Parliament.\n\nThe Federation maintained a particularly close relationship with Canada, which had a similar past in that it was a federation of several former British colonies. In the early years, several Caribbean leaders suggested that the West Indies Federation should investigate the possibility of becoming a Canadian province, though this was never more than a fleeting interest.\n\nDespite the breakdown in talks, in May 1961, Canada presented the West Indies Federation with two of the region's most important gifts: two merchant ships, named \"The Federal Palm\" and \"The Federal Maple\". These two vessels visited every island in the federation twice monthly, providing a crucial sea-link between the islands.\n\nMany reasons have been put forward to explain the demise of the federation. These include the lack of local popular support, competing insular nationalism, the weakness of the federal government, prohibitions on federal taxation and freedom of movement, inadequacies in the Federal constitution, fundamental changes made to the constitution very early in its existence, political feuds between the influential leaders, the decision of the three most influential politicians not to contest Federal elections, friction between these leaders and the Federal government, the overwhelming concentration of population and resources in the two largest units, geographic and cultural distance between the units, the lack of a history of common administration, and the impact of the period of self-government that followed the promotion from Crown Colony system.\n\nHowever, the immediate catalyst for the dissolution of the Federation was Jamaican discontent. By 1961, there were a number of reasons for Jamaica's dissatisfaction with the state of affairs:\n\nThe most important reason for Jamaican dissatisfaction was the Federation's continuing colonial status. Jamaica had joined the Federation because its leaders had believed that the West Indies would quickly be granted independence. Nearly three years after the formation of the Federation, this had not occurred; meanwhile, smaller British colonies, like Cyprus and Sierra Leone, had gained independence. Thus, many Jamaicans believed that the island could and should seek independence in its own right.\n\nThere were also problems with the Federation's proposed capital in Chaguaramas, at that time still in the hands of the United States (having leased it as a naval base from the United Kingdom during World War 2). Many of the Caribbean provincial leaders wanted Chaguaramas to be the Federation's capital. Provincial leaders such as Norman Manley of Jamaica and Eric Williams pushed for handing over of Chaguramas to the Federation from the US. However the US and the UK disagreed and the Federation's Prime Minister Grantley Adams stopped the provincial leaders from obtaining Chaguramas. For many Jamaicans it appeared that the Federation would then just hamper their development and movement towards independence.\n\nAs a result, the Bustamante-led Jamaica Labour Party (the local component of the West Indian DLP) successfully forced Manley to hold a referendum in September 1961 on political secession from the Federation. It passed, with 54% of the vote, despite the opposition of Manley, the province's Chief Minister at the time. Manley himself lost the subsequent island elections in April 1962, and Bustamante became the first Prime Minister of an independent Jamaica on 6 August 1962.\n\nAfter Jamaica left, there was an attempt to salvage a new federation from the wreckage of the old. Much depended on Premier Williams of Trinidad and Tobago, who had stated previously that he wanted a \"strong federation\". Premier Vere Bird of Antigua responded that his province would only be in a federation with Trinidad as an equal partner, not as \"a little Tobago\". He did indicate that a strong federation was acceptable provided that no attempt was made to create a unitary state.\n\nNegotiations on this new federation began in September 1961; however, they indicated that Trinidad would have to provide 75 to 80 percent of the new Federation's revenue. Also, even though Trinidad would now represent 60 percent of the new Federation's population, the proposals under consideration would give it less than half of the seats in parliament.\n\nBy November, Williams indicated that he was now in favour of the idea of a unitary state. Failing that, he resolved to take Trinidad and Tobago into independence. In this, he was buoyed by his re-election as Trinidadian leader on December 4, 1961. Later that December, Premier Errol Barrow of Barbados met with Williams, but failed to persuade him to keep Trinidad in the Federation.\n\nOn January 14, 1962, the People's National Movement (the Williams-led Trinidad component of the WIFLP) passed a resolution rejecting any further involvement with the Federation. Williams himself stated that \"one from ten leaves nought\"—in other words, without Jamaica, no Federation was possible. Trinidad and Tobago became independent on August 31, 1962.\n\nWithout Trinidad and Jamaica, the remaining \"Little Eight\" attempted to salvage some form of a West Indian Federation, this time centred on Barbados. However, these negotiations ultimately proved fruitless. Without its two largest states, the Federation was doomed to financial insolvency. Barbados now refused to shoulder the financial burden, and Antigua and Grenada began toying with the idea of merging with Jamaica and Trinidad, respectively.\n\nThe West Indies Federation was legally dissolved with the Parliament of the United Kingdom's West Indies Act 1962. The remaining \"Little Eight\" provinces once again became separate colonies supervised directly from London, most of which became independent later on, as follows:\n\nMontserrat remains an overseas territory of the United Kingdom. The Cayman Islands and Turks and Caicos Islands had been separated from Jamaica upon the latter's independence in 1962; Anguilla was separated from Saint Kitts and Nevis in 1980. All three remain UK territories as well.\n\nThe federation's currency was the West Indies dollar (though Jamaica continued to use the pound), which was later succeeded by the East Caribbean dollar, the Barbadian dollar, and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar. Successor organisations included the West Indies Associated States and CARICOM.\n\nThe Federal Supreme Court would also be succeed by a British Caribbean Court of Appeal (1962–1966) and then a West Indies Associated States Supreme Court (Court of Appeal and High Court) (1967–1980) and ultimately by an Eastern Caribbean Court of Appeal and Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court in 1981 for the OECS. More recently a Caribbean Court of Justice has been established which would also fulfill the role of the original Supreme Court if all CSME members accede to the court's appellate jurisdiction (currently Barbados, Belize and Guyana do so).\n\nSome see the West Indies cricket team as a legacy of the Federation, although the side was actually organised thirty years prior to the birth of the federation.\n\nAnother lasting regional fixture, officially created before the Federation, is the University of the West Indies. During the Federation, the University pursued a policy of regional expansion beyond the main Jamaica campus. Two other campuses were established: one in Trinidad and Tobago, established in 1960, and one in Barbados, established a short time after the Federation dissolved in 1963. Since 2004, the West Indies Federal Archives Centre has been located on the University's Cave Hill campus in Barbados.\n\nDuring the Federation's existence, each member continued to issue its own postage stamps as before; but on April 22, 1958, each of the members (except for the Cayman Islands) issued a set of three commemorative stamps. All of these stamps used a common design depicting a map of the Caribbean and a portrait of Queen Elizabeth II, with an inscription reading at the top and the name of the member state at the bottom. These stamps are quite common in both mint and used condition.\n\nThe Federation of the West Indies was not the first attempt at a British Caribbean federation (nor would it be the last). The history of the previous attempts at federations and unions, in part, explains the failure of the 1958 Federation.\n\nThe initial federal attempts never went so far as to try to encompass all of the British West Indies (BWI), but were more regional in scope. The historical regional groupings included the British Leeward Islands, British Windward Islands and Jamaica with nearby colonies. See History of the British West Indies.\n\n\n\n"}
