{"id": "58535189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58535189", "title": "Aberdeen, Maryland shooting", "text": "Aberdeen, Maryland shooting\n\nOn September 20, 2018, three people were shot and killed outside a Rite Aid distribution center in Aberdeen, Maryland, United States. The shooting occurred 30 miles northeast of Baltimore. This was the second mass shooting in Maryland in 2018, following the \"Capital Gazette shooting.\"\n\nThe suspect had entered the facility to report to work as usual, before opening fire on victims inside and outside of the facility. The Harford County sheriff stated that calls of \"shots fired\" came from the Rite Aid distribution center at approximately 9:06 a.m. EDT. Deputies responded at 9:09 am. Officers reportedly never discharged their weapons while responding to the scene. Agents from the Baltimore offices of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and the FBI responded to the scene.\n\nPreliminary reports suggest that at least three people were killed in the attack, although the Harford County Sheriff declined to give a precise number of wounded and deceased victims during the press conference. Two victims died at the scene and a third in the hospital. It was later reported that the suspect died at the hospital due to a self-inflicted gunshot wound to her head.\n\nVictims were transported to Johns Hopkins Bayview Hospital in Baltimore and Christiana Hospital in Delaware. Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center Trauma Director released a statement that the hospital received four victims with gunshot wounds, and by 2:30 p.m. ET, two patients were stable and two were seriously injured.\n\nThe shooter was admitted to the hospital, and officials did not immediately identify the suspect. It was confirmed that per initial sweeps of the site the suspect was armed with a single 9-mm Glock handgun. Later, the Harford County Sheriff's Office revealed the identity of the shooter as being Snochia Moseley, 26, an African American woman of Baltimore County. Moseley shot herself in the head and later died of her wounds at the hospital. \"The Washington Post\" reported that Moseley \"had been beset for years by mental illness as well as emotional turmoil related to her struggle with sexual identity, according to authorities and a close friend.\"\n\nAfter the shooting, a reunification center was set up at a fire department in Harve de Grace.\n\nMaryland Governor Larry Hogan, used Twitter to express his condolences and thoughts on the situation, and tweeted \"We are closely monitoring the horrific shooting in Aberdeen. Our prayers are with all those impacted, including our first responders.\"\n\nRite Aid, released a statement emphasizing their continuation to work closely with authorities as the investigation continued, and the company would provide grief counselors as long as needed. The company also offered their thoughts and prayers to all those involved in the situation.\n\n"}
{"id": "58946859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58946859", "title": "Aged Care Act 1997", "text": "Aged Care Act 1997\n\nThe Aged Care Act 1997 is an act of the Parliament of Australia. It regulates aged care in Australia, in particular services paid for by the government. \n\nIt has been described as a turning point for aged care policy in Australia. It led to an increase in private investment. Private equity firms, new foreign investors, and superannuation and property real estate investment trusts all entered the Australian residential aged care market. The staffing requirements contained in the Act have been condemned as disgracefully inadequate, and there is said to be “a complete absence of any positive and mandatory legal obligation on the part of facilities to take proactive measures to promote mental health and wellbeing of their residents”.\n\nOn 2 March 2018 the Federal Court of Australia decided that Regis Healthcare's Asset Replacement Charge was not consistent with the Act. These charges were intended to “fund reinstatements of fixtures, fittings and infrastructure, rebuilding and construction of, or at, Regis’s residential care facilities.” \n"}
{"id": "39139319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39139319", "title": "Aila (liquor)", "text": "Aila (liquor)\n\nAylā (Nepal Bhasa: अयला:) is a Newari beverage prepared by distillation of fermented ingredients such as rice, grains and millet. Apart from casual drinking, Aila is an important part of festivals in Nepal. This liquor is usually homemade and prepared by traditional methods. Its preparation is not yet commercial in Nepal, however it is sold in restaurant that serve Newa cuisine. It is about 60% alcohol and can be bought in local Newari restaurants . CNN has noted it as being one of the \"50 most delicious drinks in the world\".\n\nAila is usually prepared by Newari women before any festival or socio-cultural event. Rice along with many other ingredients is mixed with \"Marcha\", a local organic fermenting compound, and fermented at least four to five days to ensure the preparation of a good quality Aila. Millet is used instead of rice for an even stronger flavor. The final product is obtained after distillation. This is done by using traditional clay and brass vessel designed specifically for this purpose. The raw fermented mixture is cooked over a wood fire stove. Temperature of flame and cooling water are the two factors controlling the quality of this beverage during distillation.\n\nConsumption of alcohol is not just allowed but generally encouraged in Newari culture. This is a religious practice promoted by Tantric traditions. According to the Tantric practices, foods are divided into three groups. These food groups are, \"mamsa\" (meat), \"matsya\" (fish) and \"madya\" (alcoholic beverage).\nIt is believed that offering alcohol would satisfy the Tantric Gods who in turn grant followers with good luck. Aila is first offered to the Gods before every religious festival and cultural activities, and then it is served. One such famous Newari festival is Yenya.\n\n"}
{"id": "37404165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37404165", "title": "Anatomical Society", "text": "Anatomical Society\n\nThe Anatomical Society, previously known as the Anatomical Society of Great Britain and Ireland or ASGBI was founded in London in 1887 to \"promote, develop and advance research and education in all aspects of anatomical science\". \n\nThe society organises scientific meetings, publishes the \"Journal of Anatomy\" and \"Aging Cell\" and makes annual awards of PhD studentships, grants and prizes.\n\nThe society was suggested in early 1887 by Charles Barrett Lockwood, a surgeon and anatomist at St Bartholomew's Hospital, London and the first meeting was held on 6 May 1887. Lockwood was elected as Secretary and Sir George Murray Humphry, Professor of Anatomy and the first Professor of Surgery at Cambridge University, as first President of the society. Two resolutions were adopted: “That an Anatomical Society be founded, and that it be called the Anatomical Society of Great Britain and Ireland” and “That the scope and object of the Society be the Anatomy, Embryology and Histology of Man and of Animals in so far as they throw light upon the structure of Man”.\n\nIn 2010 the name of the society was changed to \"The Anatomical Society\"\nSource: Anatomical Society \n"}
{"id": "54607857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54607857", "title": "Autoimmune disease in women", "text": "Autoimmune disease in women\n\nAutoimmune disease in women is a description of the autoimmune diseases that affect women. Some of these differences are unique to women such as the effects during pregnancy. Women with autoimmune diseases can safely have children. There are be some risks for the mother or baby, depending on the disease and how severe it is. For instance, pregnant women with lupus have a higher risk of preterm birth and stillbirth. Pregnant women with myasthenia gravis (MG) might have symptoms that lead to trouble breathing during pregnancy. For some women, symptoms tend to improve during pregnancy, while others find their symptoms tend to flare up. Also, some medicines used to treat autoimmune diseases might not be safe to use during pregnancy.\n\nTalking with a health care provider before becoming pregnant is recommended. They may suggest to wait until the disease is in remission or suggest a change in medication before becoming pregnant. There are endocrinologists that specialize in treating women with high-risk pregnancies.\n\nSome women with autoimmune diseases may have problems getting pregnant. This can happen for many reasons. Tests can tell if fertility problems are caused by an autoimmune disease or an unrelated reason. Fertility treatments are able to help some women with autoimmune disease become pregnant.\n\nAlthough most autoimmune diseases cannot be cured, it is possible to manage the disease and participate in same activities that other women are able to do. Women with autoimmune diseases lead full, active lives. Seeing a specialist will assist in maintaining function and the maintenance of optimal health.\n\nNon-pharmacological treatments are effective in treating autoimmune disease and contribute to a sense of well-being. Women can:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12689719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12689719", "title": "Aziz Ishak", "text": "Aziz Ishak\n\nAbdul Aziz bin Ishak (1913–1999) was a Malaysian freedom fighter, politician and journalist.\n\nAziz was, in fact, the only member of the pre-war Kesatuan Melayu Muda (KMM) to have served in the 1955 and post-Merdeka Cabinets under Tunku Abdul Rahman. Between 1955 and 1963, he was the Minister for Agriculture and Co-operatives, where his efforts in rural development to improve the lives of padi farmers and fishermen were important although less known compared with similar efforts undertaken by the Rural Development Ministry.\n\nAziz remains an enigma unlike his brother Yusof Ishak who was well known both as a journalist and the founder of Utusan Melayu and as the first President of Singapore after the separation with Malaysia in 1965.\n\nBorn in 1913 the state of Perak, which was then part of the Federated Malay States, Aziz Ishak is the descendant of prominent Sumatran Malay Datuk Jannatun who migrated to Penang in 1759 or 15 years before Francis Light arrived on the island.\n\nAziz is of Minangkabau descent from his father's side while his mother is a native of Langkat regency in Indonesia. His brother is Yusof Ishak was the first President of Singapore and his face adorns the current paper currency of Singapore that is in circulation.\n\nDenied entry into the Malay College Kuala Kangsar because of his non-aristocratic background, Aziz attended Victoria Bridge School (now Victoria School) and Raffles Institution in Singapore.\n\nHis time at Raffles was an important learning experience. He mixed well with students of various ethnic backgrounds and was the School Captain for two years, perhaps the only Malay to have held this distinction.\n\nAt Raffles, he formed a Malay literary association with friends including Hamid Jumaat, Tun Sardon Jubir and Ahmad Ibrahim and contributed articles on the Malays and their plight to Warta Malaya, a leading Malay newspaper in Singapore. This was done through his brother Yusof who was already working as a journalist.\n\nUpon completing his Senior Cambridge, Aziz joined the colonial service in the Fisheries Department-based initially in Port Dickson in 1936, followed by Kuantan and then Batu Kurau where he was responsible for the northern region.\n\nIn Kuantan, his sympathy for the Malay fishermen did not go down well with officials, notably the English district officer, while in Kuala Kurau his immediate boss wanted him to read books on fisheries only and not literary works.\n\nFrustrated with British officialdom and after being unfairly accused of collaborating with the Japanese by his European boss (who was humiliated by the Japanese during 1942–45 and imprisoned in Changi), Aziz left the colonial service to join his brother Yusof Ishak after he founded Utusan Melayu.\n\nIt was through journalism that Aziz became widely known in Malaya. He wrote feature articles on UMNO, on the state and federal administrations and occasionally editorials.\n\nAziz was a member of the KMM while he was a fisheries officer in Kuala Kurau. In 1946, he and Abdul Samad Ismail formed Gerakan Angkatan Melayu Sedar (Geram), which was refused registration by the colonial authority. It was closely watched by the Special Branch. Geram was critical of the Malayan Union; it was also critical of UMNO because of the prominent role of the feudal aristocracy within the movement. Geram died a natural death when Aziz moved to Kuala Lumpur in 1948 as Utusan Melayu correspondent in the central region.\n\nAziz was the only journalist who was appointed a member of the Federal Legislative Council and he played an active role in its proceedings. In September 1951, he urged the government to declare an end to the Emergency.\n\nAziz's political involvement was varied. Before 1942, he was a member of the KMM and after 1945 sympathised with the PKMM. However, in 1950 he joined UMNO when it was still led by Datuk Onn Jaafar although his idea of full independence for Malaya at this time was neither acceptable to Onn nor the Tunku Abdul Rahman.\n\nWhen the Independence of Malaya Party was formed in 1951 by Onn, Aziz became deputy chairman of the IMP's Kuala Lumpur branch and contested the 1952 elections in Sentul but lost to the Alliance candidate.\n\nIn the same year, he left the IMP due to personal differences with Onn. Upon the Tunku's encouragement, he rejoined UMNO in April 1953. Aziz then held important positions within Umno and the Alliance. In 1953, he was appointed to the Alliance Round Table Conference that called for an early general election in Malaya.\n\nIn 1955, he was appointed head of Selangor UMNO and chairman of the Selangor Alliance. He was very much involved in drafting the 1955 Alliance manifesto for the general election held that year; the manifesto covered issues such as Malay language, agriculture, economy, education, and finance.\n\nIn the elections, he stood on the Alliance ticket and won in Kuala Langat. He faced a Parti Negara candidate, a former schoolmate. Despite official backing for Parti Negara, including from the colonial police force, the Alliance went on to win the first national elections, taking 51 of the 52 seats.\n\nEarlier in September 1954, Aziz had campaigned actively with the Tunku in the Terengganu election which was won by the Alliance despite open support for Parti Negara by the British.\n\nAziz was appointed Minister of Agriculture and co-operatives, a post he kept until 1963. Tun Abdul Razak took note of Aziz's useful work among the rural folk, especially the setting up of co-operatives to eliminate the exploitation by middlemen.\n\nThe year 1955 saw a growing rift between Aziz with his Cabinet colleagues, notably the Tunku and Abdul Razak who was overall in charge of rural development. Aziz's blunt criticisms of ministers, such as the wearing of uniforms, did not endear him well with the Tunku. He was also unhappy at the Alliance's neglect of the 1955 manifesto due to the exuberant push for political independence.\n\nIn his memoirs, Aziz claimed that the 1955 Cabinet was beset with policy differences on various issues, including the replacement of expatriate British officers with Malayans or Malayanisation. Aziz was equally passionate on press freedom that he claimed had been eroded after 1955.\n\nAziz resigned from the Cabinet in 1963 after he was transferred to the Health Ministry. This was due to irreconcilable differences with the Tunku and other Cabinet colleagues on strategies for rural development. There was no place for a socialist in a Cabinet that was pursuing capitalistic policies and firmly committed to upholding a free-market economy. Soon after, he was expelled from UMNO.\n\nAziz eventually went on to form the short lived National Convention Party that joined the left wing Malayan Peoples' Socialist Front together with the Labour Party of Malaya and Partai Ra'ayat to contest the 1964 general elections.\n\nIn 1963, soon after the outbreak of the Konfrontasi between Malaysia and Indonesia, the Alliance government began yet another massive round up of politicians and activists among the opposition under the Internal Security Act. Among those arrested and detained were Ahmad Boestaman, Ishak Haji Muhammad, Abdul Aziz Ishak (head of GERAM), Datuk Kampo Radjo (later the president of PRM), Tan Kai Hee, Tan Hock Hin, Dr. Rajakumar, Hasnul Hadi, Tajuddin Kahar and hundreds of others.\n\nAziz was accused of being a traitor and collaborating with Indonesian agents to form a government-in-exile, a charge that he denied. He was detained between 1965 and 1966 under the law.\n\nIn his book \"Special Guest: The Detention in Malaysia of an Ex-Cabinet Minister\" he describes in detail the irreconcilable differences with the Tunku and the events that led to his resignation, subsequent detention and release. The book was banned and only allowed restricted access in university libraries.\n\nHis earlier biographical account Katak Keluar dari Bawah Tempurong stopped at 1955 and his subsequent appointment as minister. As a result, not much is known about Aziz Ishak and his role in the struggle for independence through the newspaper Utusan Melayu and in the political arena when he was head of Selangor UMNO and Selangor Alliance in the mid-1950s when the political bargaining among the Alliance partners were struck.\n\nHe turned down all subsequent offers of state and federal awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "4578913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4578913", "title": "BIRDEM", "text": "BIRDEM\n\nBIRDEM, the Bangladesh Institute of Research and Rehabilitation for Diabetes, Endocrine and Metabolic Disorders at Shahbag, Dhaka, Bangladesh is a 600-bed multidisciplinary hospital complex of the Diabetic Association of Bangladesh. The Hospital was established in 1980 with the financial support of Bangladesh.In BIRDEM 3,000 patients are treated in the outside department every day. No other hospital in Bangladesh offers so many diabetes patients. According to the Denmark-based multinational pharmaceutical company Novo Nordics Vice President of the Pacific Ocean, Selvam Afsar Tuna, This is the world's largest hospital in treating diabetes. It has been designated as a WHO Collaborating Centre on Diabetes, Endocrine and Metabolic Disorders, as the only one of its kind in Asia. \n\nThe late national professor Muhammad Ibrahim is the founder of BIRDEM in 1980. Under his leadership, Bangladesh Diabetic Association (then named Diabetic Association for Pakistan) was formed in February 1956. Bangladesh Diabetic Association are nine separate organizations. These are the BIRDEM (Bangladesh Institute of Research and Rehabilitation in Diabetes, Endocrine and Metabolic Disorders), Rehabilitation and Vocational Training Center, National Healthcare Network, Ibrahim Cardiac Hospital and Research Center, Ibrahim Medical College, Bangladesh Institute of Health Sciences, BIRDEM Nursing College, Bangladesh University of Health Sciences and Healthcare Development Project. Professor Muhammad Ibrahim proposed a chamber of the lower house of his home in Segunbagicha, Dhaka to use the Association. In the home, he started the outdoor department for diabetes. First of all, there was a free medical treatment. During the Pakistan period, the Samity was given some land for the hospital in Segunbagicha. The hospital was inaugurated in 1980 at Shahbagh. In 2013 BIRDEM-2 hospital was started in Segunbagicha. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1446449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1446449", "title": "Bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria", "text": "Bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria\n\nBilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria (BFPP) is a genetic disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance that causes a cortical malformation. Our brain has folds in the cortex to increase surface area called gyri and patients with polymicrogyri have an increase number of folds and smaller folds than usual. Polymicrogyria is defined as a cerebral malformation of cortical development in which the normal gyral pattern of the surface of the brain is replaced by an excessive number of small, fused gyri separated by shallow sulci and abnormal cortical lamination. From ongoing research, mutation in GPR56, a member of the adhesion G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) family, results in BFPP. These mutations are located in different regions of the protein without any evidence of a relationship between the position of the mutation and phenotypic severity. It is also found that GPR56 plays a role in cortical pattering.\n\nThe GPR56 is grouped in the B family of GPCRs. This GPCR group have long N termini characterized by an extracellular “cysteine box” and hydrophilic, potentially mucin-rich. The cysteine box contains four conserved cysteines and two tryptophans arranged in a specific fashion (C-x2-W-x6-16-W-x4-C-x10-22-C-x-C) just before the first transmembrane domain and serves as a cleavage site in some members of this group of G protein–coupled receptors. Although, the molecular and cellular mechanisms of how GPR56 regulates brain development remain largely unknown. These types of receptors play an essential role in biological processes including embryonic development, central nervous system (CNS), immune system, and tumorigenesis.\nDiagnostic criteria for a BFPP patient entails a heterozygous genotype for a deletion of chromosome 16q12.1-q21 region,\nincluding GPR56 gene. To date the only gene known to be associated with polymicrogyria is GPR56. Testing for GPR56-related bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria is available clinically. Mutations in GPR56 hinders Collagen III, its specific ligand, to bind in a developing brain. To date, a total of fourteen BFPP-associated mutations have been identified, including one deletion, two splicing, and eleven missense mutations. Two mutations in the GPCR proteolytic site (GPS) domain, C346S and W349S, cause a brain malformation through trapping the mutated proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum.\n\nGPR56 are a part of the B class of the GPCR family, the largest cell surface gene family in the human genome. Within this family there are different types of bio-active molecules that transduce their signal to the intracellular compartment via interaction with this type of receptor. Children often present with developmental delay, spasticity, or seizures; they are also often microcephalic. Some patients with polymicrogyria go undiagnosed until they produce children with the disorder who have more severe manifestations. Retrospectively, these patients will often report some difficulty in their medical or educational history. BFPP patients demonstrate mental retardation, language impairment, motor developmental delay, and seizure disorders such as epilepsy. The association of epilepsy is in approximately 50% to 85% of affected BFPP patients.\n\nThe clinical manifestations of polymicrogyria are stable neurologic deficits:\n\nIn the mildest form, polymicrogyria is unilateral with only one small region of the brain involved; neurologic problems may not be evident.\n\nIn more severe forms, focal motor, sensory, visual, or cognitive problems may be present, depending on the location of the brain region affected.\n\nIn the most severe forms, polymicrogyria is bilateral and generalized, resulting in severe intellectual disability, cerebral palsy, and refractory epilepsy.\n\nIndividuals with the milder forms of polymicrogyria survive into adulthood, while those with the most severe forms, such as BFPP, may die at a young age as a result of such complications as seizures or pneumonia.\nThe prevalence of isolated polymicrogyria is unknown. Researchers believe that it may be relatively common overall, although BFPP is probably rare.\n\nThere are different tests or methods used to determine GPR56 expression or visuals of the brain to analyze the specific sections that are affected. These tests for example, using animals such as mice, RNAi, Behavioral assay, Electron microscopy, CT scan, or MRI demonstrate different results that concludes an affected BFPP patient. MRI's reveal either irregularity to the cortical surface suggestive of multiple small folds or an irregular, scalloped appearance of the gray matter-white matter junction.\n\nNeuroimaging The diagnosis of polymicrogyria is typically made by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) since computed tomography (CT) and other imaging methods generally do not have high enough resolution or adequate contrast to identify the small folds that define the condition. The cerebral cortex often appears abnormally thick as well because the multiple small gyri are fused, infolded, and superimposed in appearance.\n\nNeuropathology Gross neuropathologic examination reveals a pattern of complex convolutions to the cerebral cortex, with miniature gyri fused and superimposed together, often resulting in an irregular brain surface. The cortical ribbon can appear excessively thick as a result of the infolding and fusion of multiple small gyri.\n\nMicroscopic examination demonstrates that the cerebral cortex is in fact abnormally thin and has abnormal lamination; typically the cortex is unlayered or has four layers, in contrast to the normal six layers. The most superficial layers between adjacent small gyri appear fused, with the pia (layer of the meninges) bridging across multiple gyri. Prenatal diagnosis for BFPP is also available for pregnancies at risk if the GPR56 mutations have been identified in an affected family member.\n\nBFPP is a cobblestone-like cortical malformation of the brain. Disruptions of cerebral cortical development due to abnormal neuronal migration and positioning usually lead to cortical disorders, which includes cobblestone lissencephaly. Cobblestone lissencephaly is typically seen in three different human congenital muscular dystrophy syndromes: Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, Walker-Warburg syndrome, and muscle-eye-brain disease. In cobblestone lissencephaly, the brain surface actually has a bumpy contour caused by the presence of collections of misplaced neurons and glial cells that have migrated beyond the normal surface boundaries of the brain. Sometimes regions populated by these misplaced cells have caused a radiologic misdiagnosis of polymicrogyria. However, the presence of other abnormalities in these cobblestone lissencephaly syndromes, including ocular anomalies, congenital muscular dystrophy, ventriculomegaly, and cerebellar dysplasia, usually distinguishes these disorders from polymicrogyria. There are no anatomopathologic studies that have characterized the pattern of cortical laminar alterations in patients with GPR56 gene mutations, but it has been suggested that the imaging characteristics of BFPP, including myelination defects and cerebellar cortical dysplasia, are reminiscent of those of the so-called cobblestone malformations (muscle-eye-brain disease and Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy) that are also associated with N-glycosylation defects in the developing brain.\n\nLissencephaly (\"smooth brain\") is the extreme form of pachygyria. In lissencephaly, few or no sulci are seen on the cortical surface, resulting in a broad, smooth appearance to the entire brain. Lissencephaly can be radiologically confused with polymicrogyria, particularly with low-resolution imaging, but the smoothness and lack of irregularity in the gray-white junction, along with markedly increased cortical thickness, distinguishes lissencephaly.\n\nGPR56 mutation also can cause a severe encelphalopathy which is associated with electro clinical features of the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Lennox-Gastaut syndrome can be cryptogenic or symptomatic, but the symptomatic forms have been associated with multiple etiologies and abnormal cortical development. BFPP caused by GPR56 mutations is a representation of a malformation of cortical development that causes Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome.\n\nPolymicrogyria usually gets misdiagnose with pacygyria so therefore it needs to be distinguished from pachygyria. Pachygyria is a distinct brain malformation in which the surface folds are excessively broad and sparse. Pachygyria and polymicrogyria may look similar on low-resolution neuroimaging such as CT because the cortical thickness can appear to be increased and the gyri can appear to be broad and smooth in both conditions. This is why higher resolution neuroimaging are needed such as an MRI.\n\nParents of a proband\n\n\nSibs of a proband\n\n\nOffspring of a proband\n\n\nOther family members of a proband.\n\nTreatment plans will vary depending on the severity of the condition and its evidences in each patient.\nAreas that will probably need to be evaluated and assessed include speech, vision, hearing and EEG. Treatment measures may include physical therapy, occupational therapy, Speech therapy, anti-seizure drugs and orthotic devices. Surgery may be needed to assuage spastic motor problems. Various supportive measures such as joint contractures that could prevent complications.\nGenetic counseling may also be recommended\nOnce the diagnosis of polymicrogyria has been established in an individual, the following approach can be used for discussion of prognosis:\n\nA pregnancy history should be sought, with particular regard to infections, trauma, multiple gestations, and other documented problems. Screening for the common congenital infections associated with polymicrogyria with standard TORCH testing may be appropriate. Other specific tests targeting individual neurometabolic disorders can be obtained if clinically suggested.\n\nThe following may help in determining a genetic etiology:\n\nFamily history\n\nIt is important to ask for the presence of neurologic problems in family members, including seizures, cognitive delay, motor impairment, pseudobulbar signs, and focal weakness because many affected family members, particularly those who are older, may not have had MRI performed, even if these problems came to medical attention. In addition, although most individuals with polymicrogyria do present with neurologic difficulties in infancy, childhood, or adulthood, those with mild forms may have no obvious deficit or only minor manifestations, such as a simple lisp or isolated learning disability. Therefore, if a familial polymicrogyria syndrome is suspected, it may be reasonable to perform MRI on relatives who are asymptomatic or have what appear to be minor findings. The presence of consanguinity in a child's parents may suggest an autosomal recessive familial polymicrogyria syndrome.\n\nPhysical examination\n\nA general physical examination of the proband may identify associated craniofacial, musculoskeletal, or visceral malformations that could indicate a particular syndrome. Neurologic examination should assess cognitive and mental abilities, cranial nerve function, motor function, deep tendon reflexes, sensory function, coordination, and gait (if appropriate).\n\nGenetic testing\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4584562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4584562", "title": "Blinky Palermo", "text": "Blinky Palermo\n\nBlinky Palermo (2 June 1943 – 18 February 1977) was a German abstract painter.\n\nPalermo was born Peter Schwarze in Leipzig, Germany, in 1943, and adopted as an infant, with his twin brother, Michael, by foster parents named Heisterkamp. He adopted his outlandish name in 1964, during his studies with Bruno Goller and Joseph Beuys at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf between 1962 and 1967. The name refers to Frank \"Blinky\" Palermo, an American Mafioso and boxing promoter who managed Sonny Liston.\n\nIn 1969, Palermo moved to Mönchengladbach and set up a studio he would share with Imi Knoebel and Ulrich Rückriem. After a stay in New York in the early 1970s, he moved into Gerhard Richter's former Düsseldorf studio.\n\nBlinky Palermo died in 1977, aged 33, during a trip to the Maldives, of causes that often are referred to as \"mysterious\" but widely acknowledged as related to Palermo's drug use. His brother Michael Heisterkamp is the sole heir and owner of the copyright of Palermo.\n\nPalermo was best known for his spare monochromatic canvases and \"fabric paintings\" made from simple lengths of colored material cut, stitched and stretched over a frame. He painted on aluminum, steel, wood, paper and Formica, often making lines out of tape instead of paint.\n\nUnder Beuys, he became increasingly interested in the organized spatial relationship between form and colour, a polarity which is manifest throughout the rest of his oeuvre. In the mid 1960s, Palermo moved away from conventional rectangular canvases and increasingly opted for surfaces such as the circle, triangle, cruciform, totem pole and even the interior walls of buildings. For example, \"Untitled (Totem)\" (1964) \"...is simply a vertical strip of wood, 7 feet by about 2 inches. It is painted orange and punctuated, like a primitive ladder, with five short, horizontal pieces of canvas-wrapped wood, each painted white with a portion of a blue triangle\". Between 1964 and 1966, Palermo produced a small series of paintings on canvas in which he experimented with constructivist principles of order.\n\nBetween late 1966 and 1972 he produced a series of circa 65 \"Stoffbilder (Fabric Paintings)\", consisting of colored materials of different widths sewn together along horizontal or vertical seams and attached to stretchers. He took the colour and material quality ready-made from department-store fabrics and had them stitched together by others.\n\nIn 1970, he and Gerhard Richter jointly submitted designs for the sports facilities for the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich. For the front of the arena, they proposed an array of glass windows in 27 colors; each color would appear 50 times, with the distribution determined randomly.\n\nBeginning in 1968, Palermo realized more than 20 murals and wall drawings at various sites in Europe, including Edinburgh and Brussels, and recorded them in preparatory sketches and photographic documentation. The original work, however, having been affiliated with their place of installation, no longer exist. His \"Times of the Day I-IV\" consists of square, aluminum panels painted in colors arranged from bright to dark, a metaphor for the change sunlight through the day. He often outlined the shapes of some of the walls in a given room or filled them in with a different color, leaving only a border of the original white. A series of “Metallbilder” (Metal Pictures) followed in 1972, a series of acrylic paintings on steel or aluminium. They follow a consistent formula: groupings of, usually, four panels, fairly widely separated, with each panel bearing a single main acrylic color area bracketed by bands of one other color at the top and the bottom.\n\nAfter visiting New York with Gerhard Richter in 1970, he moved his practice to New York City in December 1973. Once back in Düsseldorf he produced \"To the People of New York City\" (1976), a 15-part work comprising 39 aluminum panels painted in variations of cadmium red, cadmium yellow, and black — the colors of the West and East German flags (and now the German one) - ever changing in pattern. It was shown at the Heiner Friedrich Gallery, New York, in 1977, and at the Dia Art Foundation in 1987.\n\nPalermo's first solo show was held in 1966 at Galerie Friedrich+Dahlem in Munich. He further participated in more than 70 exhibitions, including at documenta in 1972 and 1977, and at the 13th Bienal de São Paulo in 1975. In 1976, his work \"Himmelsrichtungen\" was shown at the Venice Biennale.\n\nIn 1987, Dia inaugurated its exhibition space in Chelsea with major shows of works by Palermo, Beuys, and Knoebel. Palermo has also had posthumous retrospectives at the Kunstmuseum Winterthur (1984); Kunstmuseum Bonn (1993); Museu d’Art Contemporani de Barcelona, in co-production with the Serpentine Gallery, London (2002–2003); and the Kunsthalle Düsseldorf (2007). In 2010, the Dia Art Foundation and the Center for Curatorial Studies and Art in Contemporary Culture at Bard College presented a joint retrospective, the first in the United States, of works by Palermo. The show was financed mostly with a $250,000 grant from Gucci and also travelled to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington. In 2013, the David Zwirner Gallery organized an exhibition of Palermo's works on paper from 1976-1977\n\nPublic collections holding major works by Palermo include the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Tate Gallery in London, and the Dia Art Foundation. Most of the artist's work, however, remains in the possession of private collectors and museums in Europe.\n\nPalermo's auction record is held by \"Untitled (Stoffbild)\" (1967–69), a large square panel of cotton fabric on burlap, painted with two bands of solid color of uneven height, respectively dark blue and turquoise. Auctioned from the collection of Gerhard and Anna Lenz at Sotheby's London in 2010, it sold for £1.11 million.\n\n\"The Unexpected Death of Blinky Palermo in the Tropics\" became the title of a painting by Julian Schnabel, now part of the collection of the Stedelijk Museum. In 1993, it was damaged during a rainstorm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56124391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56124391", "title": "Cannabis in Kazakhstan", "text": "Cannabis in Kazakhstan\n\nCannabis in Kazakhstan is illegal. \n\nExtensive amounts of cannabis grow wild in the country. The 2006 \"World Drug Report\" estimated that 400,000 hectares of cannabis grow wild in the Chui Valley.\n\nPer Russia's Ministry of Internal Affairs, 93% of the nation's marijuana comes from Kazakhstan.\n"}
{"id": "56206122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56206122", "title": "Cannabis in Liberia", "text": "Cannabis in Liberia\n\nCannabis in Liberia is illegal.\n\nDuring the First Liberian Civil War, Charles Taylor raised funds for his fighters by selling cannabis from territories under National Patriotic Front of Liberia control.\n"}
{"id": "5818044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5818044", "title": "Cerebellar abiotrophy", "text": "Cerebellar abiotrophy\n\nCerebellar abiotrophy (CA), also referred to as the cerebellar cortical abiotrophy (CCA), is a genetic neurological disease in animals best known to affect certain breeds of horses, dogs and cats. It can also develop in humans. It develops when the neurons known as Purkinje cells, located in the cerebellum of the brain, begin to die off. These cells affect balance and coordination. They have a critical role to play in the brain. The Purkinje layer allows communication between the granular and molecular cortical layers in the cerebellum. Put simply, without Purkinje cells, an animal loses its sense of space and distance, making balance and coordination difficult. People with damage to the cerebellum can experience symptoms like unsteady gait, poor muscle control, and trouble speaking or swallowing.\n\n\"Abiotrophy\" means the loss of a vital nutritive factor. The exact cause of cerebellar abiotrophy is not known, but it is thought to be due to an intrinsic metabolic defect.\n\nIn most cases, the Purkinje neurons begin to die off shortly after the animal is born and the condition is noticeable when the animal is less than six months old, though sometimes the onset of symptoms is gradual and the animal is much older before the owner or caretaker notices a problem.\n\nCA cannot be prevented, other than by selective breeding to avoid the gene, and it cannot be cured. Genetic testing can detect carriers. In addition to dogs and horses, there also have been cases of cerebellar abiotrophy in Siamese and Domestic shorthair cats; in Angus, Polled Hereford, Charolais and Holstein Friesian cattle; Merino and Wiltshire sheep; and Yorkshire pigs.\n\nThe condition in Kerry Blue Terriers is sometimes called \"progressive neuronal abiotrophy\" (PNA). Other terms used to describe the condition in dogs include cerebellar cortical atrophy and postnatal cerebellar cortical degeneration.\n\nCerebellar abiotrophy in horses was originally thought to be a form of cerebellar hypoplasia and was described as such in older research literature. However, it was discovered that in horses, the die-off of purkinje cells began after the animal was born, rather than occurring \"in utero.\" Cerebellar hypoplasia is particularly common in cats and has similar symptoms.\n\nThere are other diseases that lead to cerebellar degeneration, but the loss of Purkinje cells is a clear way to diagnose CA, and the combination of symptoms is sufficiently unique that CA can easily be distinguished from other conditions, even in a living animal.\n\nSymptoms of cerebellar abiotrophy include ataxia or lack of balance, an awkward wide-legged stance, a head tremor (intention tremor) (in dogs, body tremors also occur), hyperreactivity, lack of menace reflex, stiff or high-stepping gait, coarse or jerky head bob when in motion (or in very young animals, when attempting to nurse), apparent lack of awareness of where the feet are (sometimes standing or trying to walk with a foot knuckled over), poor depth perception, and a general inability to determine space and distance. The symptoms, when taken as a group, are distinctive and not easily mimicked by other illnesses, though certain types of neurological injury and infection need to be ruled out. Verifying the diagnosis in a laboratory setting is possible only by examining the brain post-mortem to determine if there has been a loss of Purkinje cells.\n\nMost affected animals have normal intelligence and mildly affected animals can, in theory, live out a normal lifespan. However, affected animals are quite accident-prone, and for this reason many animals that develop CA, particularly horses, are euthanized for humane reasons. Horses may experience difficulty stepping up and over objects, run into fences, fall easily, and even if allowed to mature to full growth, are generally considered unsafe to ride. Dogs may need lifetime assistance with tasks such as climbing stairs.\n\nIn horses, the symptoms may worsen from the time of onset for six to 12 months, but if not severe enough to mandate euthansia, they stabilize over time. In some dog breeds, symptoms appear to progressively worsen, but research is not consistent on this point. There also is some evidence that affected animals partially compensate for the condition by cognitively learning alternative methods for moving or to determine distance, and thus appear to improve because they become less accident-prone.\n\nCerebellar abiotrophy (CA) is best known as a condition affecting Arabian horses. It has also been observed in the Curly horse, Miniature horse, the Gotland Pony, one Eriskay Pony, and possibly the Oldenburg. Most foals appear normal at birth, with symptoms noticeable at an average age of four months, though there have been cases where the condition is first seen shortly after birth and other cases where symptoms are first recognized in horses over one year of age.\n\nBreeds DNA tested that reveal some carrier lines, but to date no affected animals, include the Welsh pony and the Trakehner. However, other breeds heavily influenced by Arabian breeding, such as the Thoroughbred and the American Saddlebred, do not appear to carry the mutation.\n\nIn horses, CA is believed to be linked to an autosomal recessive gene. This means it is not sex-linked, and the allele has to be carried and passed on by both parents in order for an affected animal to be born. Horses that only carry one copy of the gene may pass it on to their offspring, but themselves are perfectly healthy—without symptoms of the disease. Because it is recessive, the allele for CA may pass through multiple generations before it is expressed.\n\nCA is sometimes misdiagnosed. Though the symptoms are quite distinguishable from other neurological conditions, it has been confused with Wobbler's syndrome, Equine Protozoal Myeloencephalitis (EPM), and injury-related problems such as a concussion.\n\nA DNA test which identifies markers associated with cerebellar abiotrophy became available in 2008. The test was refined to identify the most likely mutations, and retesting of earlier samples based on an earlier indirect marker test developed by UCD, indicated a 97% accuracy rate for the old test relative to the newer version, with no false negatives. The causative mutation was identified in 2011. Research on CA and the DNA test was led by the Veterinary Genetics Laboratory at the UC Davis School of Veterinary Medicine. Researchers working on this problem include Dr. Cecilia Penedo, PhD, and Leah Brault, PhD. The late Dr. Ann T. Bowling made significant early contributions to the genetics research on CA.\n\nCA has been seen in the Australian Kelpie, Gordon Setter, Border Collie, Labrador Retriever, Airedale, English Pointer, Scottish Terrier, Kerry Blue Terrier, Miniature Schnauzer, Lagotto Romagnolo, and other dog breeds. Time of onset varies. In a few breeds, such as the Beagle, Rough Collie, and Miniature Poodle, Purkinje cells begin to die off at or shortly before birth, and pups are born with symptoms or develop symptoms by three to four weeks of age. Most breeds prone to the condition, such as the Kerry Blue Terrier, Border Collie, Australian Kelpie, and Labrador Retriever, begin showing symptoms between six and sixteen weeks of age. In a very few breeds, such as the American Staffordshire Terrier, Old English Sheepdog, Brittany Spaniel, and Gordon Setter, symptoms do not appear until adulthood or even middle age.\n\nIn dogs, CA is also usually an autosomal recessive gene, but in a few breeds, such as the English Pointer, the gene is sex-linked.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49085532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49085532", "title": "Circle of Poison", "text": "Circle of Poison\n\nThe Circle of Poison (COP) refers to the export of domestically banned pesticides for use on foods elsewhere, some of which returns by way of import. The \"circle\" is complete when the toxic chemicals that were exported are then used to grow fruit, meat, and produce that are imported and available for domestic consumption. This circle was first identified relative to the United States but the relationship also exists between other nations of the Global North and South.\n\nIn the book, \"Circle of Poison: Pesticides and People in a Hungry World\", David Weir and Mark Schapiro of the Oakland-based Center for Investigative Reporting present an investigative study of how certain dangerous chemicals, which are banned in the U.S., still enter back into the United States and the American diet through food imports. Many restricted chemicals, especially pesticides, are produced in the U.S. and exported to the global south. The banned chemicals are then used on 'cash crops', which are subsequently exported to the U.S. and other industrialized countries for high profit.\n\nThe investigative study done by Wier and Schapiro showed that the highly potent and dangerous chemicals used in domestic agriculture led to a public clamor for strict regulations, and that pesticides contribute to the expansion of an export-oriented agriculture at the expense of food production for local needs. Even where they are applied to food crops, pesticide are often linked to the Green Revolution, which can mean more hunger even while it raises production. Pesticides, they argue, are no solution to hunger-they bypass the needs of the poor who 'have neither money to buy food nor the land to grow it on'. Moreover, they claim because agrochemical companies are profit driven, they have tailored the regulations to permit unrestricted export of dangerous chemicals. Wier and Schapiro argue that this loophole has been a disaster.\n\nIn April 1991, the \"Circle of Poison prevention Act\" was introduced by Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) in the U.S. Senate and by Representatives Mike Synar (D-OK) and Leon Panetta (D-CA) in the House. This bill would have placed strict controls on exports of hazardous chemicals. Similar legislation passed both houses of Congress but died in conference committee.\n\nIn brief, the \"Circle of Poison Prevention Act\" would have:\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has the authority to regulate the sale and use of pesticides in the United States; before a pesticide can be sold, it must be licensed or registered by the EPA. While registration does not constitute \"approval\" by the EPA, it means that the agency has determined that a pesticide will not cause 'unreasonable adverse effects' on humans or the environment. The EPA may cancel or suspend the registration of a pesticide, if further evidence indicates that its use poses unreasonable hazard. Or it may restrict the uses for which it may be sold to very specific crops and application practices.\n\nThe EPA does not have the authority to prohibit the export of canceled or suspended pesticides; nor may it forbid the export of restricted use pesticides that may be equally hazardous in the hands of untrained applicators or new compounds, which have never been granted registration. Consequently, millions of pounds of pesticides, which have been determined to be unsafe for use in the U.S, are shipped to foreign ports.\n\nA 2005 summary report of pesticide residue done by the Pesticide Data Program (a program started by the United States Department of Agriculture) showed that out of 10,154 foods tested, fruits and vegetables such as apples and lettuce had the most pesticide residue.\nThe Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, are the two major laws responsible for pesticide control in the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and are also responsible for the safety of foods containing pesticide residues to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. The Secretary has delegated this responsibility to the Food and Drug Administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "44032205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44032205", "title": "Distinguished Gentleman's Ride", "text": "Distinguished Gentleman's Ride\n\nThe Distinguished Gentleman's Ride is a global motorcycle fund-raising event to raise awareness of prostate cancer and male suicide prevention\n\nOpen to all genders, the ride was founded in 2012 by Mark Hawwa in Sydney, Australia — inspired by a photo of Mad Men’s Don Draper on a classic bike in a fine suit.\n\nThe ride provides an outline of dress and behaviour, suggesting riders wear dapper clothing, silk vests, tweed suits and behave in an affable manner. Suggested motorcycles for the themed ride include café racers, bobbers, classics, modern classics, flat trackers, scramblers, old school choppers, brat styled, classic scooters, and classic sidecars. The ride carries no entry fee, and riders are encouraged to raise sponsorship money for prostate cancer research and male suicide prevention on behalf of charity partner The Movember Foundation.\n\nIn 2014 Triumph Motorcycles started to support and sponsor the ride, together with Dime City Cycles in 2015 as prize sponsor. In 2016 Zenith Watches joined Triumph Motorcycles as major co-sponsor with Hedon helmets supporting the event as prize sponsor. \n\nIn 2015 one of the three motorcycles ridden by actor Chris Pratt in \"Jurassic World\" was auctioned off, with the profits going to the prostate cancer funds.\n\n\nThe event takes place on the last Sunday in September each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "36992235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36992235", "title": "Drink mix", "text": "Drink mix\n\nA drink mix, or powdered drink mix is a processed-food product, a powder designed to mix usually with water to produce a beverage resembling fruit juice or soda in flavor. Another type of drink mix is represented by products that must be mixed into milk.\n\nWhile some are made with sugar, or sold unsweetened, the products are often made with artificial sweeteners such as aspartame, sucralose, cyclamates or saccharin, and often include artificial flavors and colors. Some of the product include vitamins or other nutrients. The products are variously marketed to children, athletes, bodybuilders, dieters, or as a vitamin supplement. Some brands are only sold as drink mixes, while some beverage companies produce powdered versions of their products, as does Gatorade and Ocean Spray. Another form of drink mix is represented by products mixed into milk, such as malted milk, Nesquik, Ovaltine and Carnation Instant Breakfast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4679336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4679336", "title": "EHealth Exchange", "text": "EHealth Exchange\n\nThe eHealth Exchange, formerly known as the \"Nationwide Health Information Network\" often abbreviated as the \"NHIN\" or \"NwHIN\", is an initiative for the exchange of healthcare information. It was developed under the auspices of the U.S. Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC), and now managed by a non-profit industry coalition called Sequoia Project (formerly HealtheWay). The exchange is a web-services based series of specifications designed to securely exchange healthcare related data. The NwHIN is related to the Direct Project which uses a secure email-based approach. One of the latest goals is to increase the amount of onboarding information about the NwHIN to prospective vendors of health care systems.\n\nThe Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology has been facilitating development of the NwHIN, which will tie together health information exchanges, integrated delivery networks, pharmacies, government, labs, providers, payors and other stakeholders into a \"network of networks.\"\n\nA health care system participating in the NwHIN acquires an Object identifier (OID). The OID, issued by the ONC, allows the individual health care system or vendor to receive and send messages to trusted entities within the NwHIN through an interface such as Mirth Connect or a custom-built Java UI. The NwHIN is built on open source code utilizing the Java platform. This creates a need for technical information sharing among programmers with the ONC also making information available.\n\nAccording to former Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt the NwHIN would be a public-private venture, and the Markle Foundation, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and California HealthCare Foundation were funding research and demonstration projects.\n\nThe NwHIN is funded through the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the Centers of Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Indian Health Service.\n\nThe stakeholders that participate in the NwHIN will be four broad classes of organizations:\n\nSome organizations may lack the necessary technical or operational competencies to conform to the architecture and provide the core services. Instead, they may choose to use the services of a Health Information Service Provider (HISP). A is a company or other organization that will support one or more NwHIN participants by providing them with operational and technical health exchange services necessary to fully qualify to connect to the NwHIN.\n\nThe business, trust and technical arrangements that will enable the NwHIN generally will be local and between organizations. Nonetheless, the primary users of the NwHIN will be people: healthcare providers, healthcare consumers and those who use the data in the NwHIN for public health, quality assessment or other purposes. These people will have several ways to take advantage of the information exchange available through the NwHIN.\n\nAccess Paths to the System:\n\n\nAn open source software package is available that implements the NwHIN architecture from CONNECT. The CONNECT software is the outcome of a 2008 decision by federal agencies to begin work on connecting their health IT systems into the NwHIN. Rather than individually build the software required to make this possible, the federal agencies collaborated through the Federal Health Architecture program to create a single solution that can be reused by each agency within its own environment. Twenty-two Cooperative members, including seven federal agencies using the CONNECT gateway, participated in testing and demonstrations in 2008.\n\nThe Direct project, which has been termed a scaled down version of the NwHIN, allows two trusted entities (for instance, a physician and a referred specialist) to share medical records. In this way, the patient's electronic record could be viewed by two trusted entities. These entities may not have access to the NwHIN in a product like the CONNECT software. However, they would have a trusted email address issued by the ONC.\n\nThe NwHIN, as an operational entity, is moving from public (ONC-backed) operations, to a non-profit public-private structure. Under this model, the ONC will maintain overall responsibility for the governance of the NwHIN. and the NwHIN operational entity will be known as the eHealth Exchange which will be facilitated by the non-profit Sequoia Project (formerly Healtheway), Inc. a membership-based corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "16300126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16300126", "title": "Episodic dyscontrol syndrome", "text": "Episodic dyscontrol syndrome\n\nEpisodic dyscontrol syndrome, otherwise known as intermittent explosive disorder(IED). Episodic dyscontrol syndrome (EDS, or sometimes just dyscontrol), is a pattern of abnormal, episodic, and frequently violent and uncontrollable social behavior in the absence of significant provocation; it can result from limbic system diseases, disorders of the temporal lobe, or abuse of alcohol or other psychoactive substances.\n\nEpisodic dyscontrol syndrome (EDS) is a clearly identified category in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM IV). EDS may affect children or adults. Children are often considered to have epilepsy or a mental health problem. The episodes consist of recurrent attacks of uncontrollable rage, usually after minimal provocation, and may last up to an hour. Following an episode, children are frequently exhausted, may sleep and will usually have no recall.\n\nTreatment for EDS usually involves treating the underlying causative factor(s). This may involve psychotherapy, or medical treatment for diseases.\n\nEDS has been successfully controlled in clinical trials using prescribed medications, including Carbamazepine, Ethosuximide, and Propranolol.\n\nThere have been few randomised controlled trials of treatment of EDS(Episodic dyscontrol syndrome)/IED(intermittent explosive disorder). Antidepressants and mood-stabilisers including lithium, sodium valproate and carbamazepine have been used in adults, and occasionally in children with oppositional defiant disorder or conduct disorder to reduce aggression. Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is effective in the treatment of anger. A recent trial randomised adults with IED to 12 weeks of individual therapy, group therapy or waiting list (no therapy). Intervention resulted in an improvement in anger and aggression levels, with no difference between group and individual CBT(Cognitive behavioural therapy). Adolescents and young adults may experience educational and social consequences but also mental health problems, including parasuicide, if IED/EDS is undiagnosed in early childhood.\n\nA diagnosis of EDS has been used as a defense in court for persons accused of committing violent crimes including murder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52606181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52606181", "title": "European Union disability policy", "text": "European Union disability policy\n\nThe European Union policy for disabled people guarantees governmental responsibility for all disabled people in all of EU's member states. This policy operates in the framework of the subsidiarity principle: if possible, one should improve at the national level, though in principle the EU will refrain from setting hefty laws in this area. Through the activities of the Council of Europe and the United Nations, the EU disability policy has since been in effect in many EU countries for years.\n\nDuring World War I, the disability protection system in Europe covered only war veterans and soldiers, based on the conviction that people are owed this protection when they have sacrificed for their country. This principle is also referred to in terms of a Quid pro quo duty, as the soldiers should receive something in exchange for their service.\n\nAfter World War II, attitudes changed towards disability, in part because of the millions of people injured in its aftermath. Furthermore, there existed a high level of unemployment among the disabled throughout Europe. Therefore, after 1945, European states responded to this situation by forcing employers to recruit disabled veterans and this policy was later extended to cover disabled civilians.\n\nFrom the beginning of the European Community, the process of lawmaking within the union was subject to the conventions and declarations of the United Nations. Eventually, the EC made its own laws regarding disabled people. Below is a timeline of legislation regarding disabled people established by the EU, or through its predecessor bodies, split into two periods, from 1945-1992 and from 1992-present. The first period guaranteed broad rights to persons with disabilities and non-disabled people alike, though during the second period, treaties and policies came into force which specifically focused on the rights of disabled people. \n\n\nThe EU established the year 2003 as the \"European Year of People with Disabilities.\" Following the success of this event, the European Commission introduced the \"Equal opportunities for people with disabilities: a European action plan for the years 2004-2010\". It aimed to develop a sustainable-operational approach to the case for the disabled in the extended Europe, finding out and protecting the rights of the disabled.\n"}
{"id": "723149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723149", "title": "Gamete intrafallopian transfer", "text": "Gamete intrafallopian transfer\n\nGamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) is a tool of assisted reproductive technology against infertility. Eggs are removed from a woman's ovaries, and placed in one of the Fallopian tubes, along with the man's sperm. The technique, first attempted by Steptoe and Edwards and later pioneered by endocrinologist Ricardo Asch, allows fertilization to take place inside the woman's uterus.\n\nWith the advances in IVF the GIFT procedure is used less as pregnancy rates in IVF tend to be equal or better and do not require laparoscopy when the egg is put back.\n\nIt takes, on average, four to six weeks to complete a cycle of GIFT. First, the woman must take a fertility drug to stimulate egg production in the ovaries. The doctor will monitor the growth of the ovarian follicles, and once they are mature, the woman will be injected with human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). The eggs will be harvested approximately 36 hours later, mixed with the man's sperm, and placed back into the woman's Fallopian tubes using a laparoscope.\n\nA woman must have at least one normal fallopian tube in order for GIFT to be suitable. It is used in instances where the fertility problem relates to sperm dysfunction, and where the couple has idiopathic (unknown cause) infertility. Some patients may prefer the procedure to IVF for ethical reasons, since the fertilization takes place inside the body. This is a semi invasive procedure and requires laparoscopy.\n\nAs with most fertility procedures, success depends on the couple's age and the woman's egg quality. It is estimated that approximately 25–30% of GIFT cycles result in pregnancy, with a third of those being multiple pregnancies.\nThe First GIFT baby in the UK was Todd Holden born in October 1986. The First GIFT baby in the US was Kaitlynne Kelley born on 28 April 1987. The first application of this method in Latin America was held in Argentina on 13 May 1986, and was led by Dr. Ricardo Asch, the treatment was successfully completed with the birth of Manuel Campo Lopez.\nIn Venezuela, the first GIFT babies were Luis Hernández, Rosa Helena Hernández and Luisa Hernández, who were born on 24 June 1987 and were also the first triplets to be born using the GIFT method.\n\nGamete intrafallopian transfer is not technically \"in vitro\" fertilisation because with GIFT, fertilisation takes place inside the body, not on a petri dish. Some Catholic moral theologians are nevertheless concerned with it because they \"consider this to be a replacement of the marital act, and therefore immoral.\"\n"}
{"id": "52392789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52392789", "title": "HIE of One", "text": "HIE of One\n\nHIE of One is a free software project developing tools for patients to manage their own health records. HIE stands for Health Information Exchange, an electronic network for sharing health information across different organizations, hospitals, providers, and patients. This is one of a growing number of tools for encrypted data exchange within the health care sphere.\n\nJournalist Doc Searls claims that a major structural problem with health care in the United States is that it is paid for by insurance companies and not patients, thus robbing patients of the power they would normally have as the customer in a free market. Searls writes that \"[t]he best approach I have seen so far to this challenge is HIE of One, a project of two MDs, Adrian Gropper and Michael Chen.\" He notes that HIE of One provides a patient-centered toolkit built around open source software and open data exchange standards. Prof. Phillip Windley, former Chief Information Officer of the State of Utah, has noted the positive impact that HIE of One could have on privacy and consent.\n\nA proposal for using HIE of One in conjunction with blockchain technology was reviewed by the US Office of the National Coordinator (ONC), winning an award from the ONC on the basis that the proposal was innovative, viable, and significant.\n\nThe project rests on the premise that patients should authorize the sharing of their own health data, instead of leaving these decisions up to hospitals and other healthcare providers who offer generic and opaque disclosure forms. The elements of sharing health data can be broken down into storage, authorization, and transmission. HIE of One has decentralization solutions for each of these elements, and provides an open platform on which far more capabilities can be built, such as decision support, analytics, public health efforts, and coordinated health care.\n\nFor most of medical history, doctors shared minimal information about patients. Before the computer age, a doctor might have a phone conversation with a specialist before sending over a patient, or send a few pages of a Continuity of Care Document (CCD) to the next health care provider or nursing facility. Many important aspects of treatment were dropped along the way, leading to suboptimal outcomes and duplication of work.\n\nThe advent of electronic records theoretically enabled much better care coordination, and the field of health information exchange (HIE) grew up around electronic records. Data sharing currently revolves around large, expensive organizations called Health Information Exchanges and industry-led efforts such as CommonWell. However, such data exchanges have made slow progress, as found in a literature survey by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Studies cited by that survey found the HIEs hard to use. An official 2016 government study found uneven progress, with a few states succeeding and many lagging.\n\nHIE of One, in contrast, dispenses with these middlemen by allowing each patient to direct the flow of data using an automated policy-driven authorization server. Data sharing is carried out through protocols run by the patient and the people to which she wishes to grant access (doctors, clinical researchers, family members, etc.).\n\nThe protocols forming the basis of HIE of One are developed by the OpenID HEART project. HEART grew out of a pair of meetings at the MIT Media Lab in 2014 designed to charter work on adding healthcare-specific authorization layer to a RESTful API. Once the scope and charter were defined, the workgroup began under the rules of the OpenID Foundation with industry and government representatives as co-chairs.\n\nThe success of HIE of One depends on shifting the sharing of patient data out of isolated doctors' offices and into patient authorization servers. Most patients are likely to use cloud computing for the authorization server, because robust cloud systems back up data and manage security measures. However, authorization servers can also be on a stand-alone computer or dedicated appliance at the patient's home, such as a FreedomBox.\n\nPatient control over access to her own data is the central goal of HIE of One, so authorization is the key feature. HIE of One employs standard technologies, including the OpenID OAuth and OpenID Connect standards, and User-Managed Access (UMA) from the Kantara Initiative.\n\nBoth the patient and the person requesting access to data authenticate and provide an identity.The patient delegates control over personal data held by a hospital system or other resource server using a typical OAuth flow. The requesting party authenticates and provides identity claims to the HIE of One authorization server specified by the patient. The HIE of One authorization server can accept direct login (username/password or multi-factor), federated identity, and even self-sovereign identity.\n\nHIE of One theoretically can use any RESTful (Representational state transfer) standard available for data transmission, as long as a it’s controlled by a supported authorization standard such as OAuth2. Currently, Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) seems to be emerging as the health care industry's choice for formatting data and transmitting it over the Web.\n"}
{"id": "169409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169409", "title": "Happiness", "text": "Happiness\n\nHappiness is used in the context of mental or emotional states, including positive or pleasant emotions ranging from contentment to intense joy. It is also used in the context of life satisfaction, subjective well-being, eudaimonia, flourishing and well-being.\n\nSince the 1960s, happiness research has been conducted in a wide variety of scientific disciplines, including gerontology, social psychology, clinical and medical research and happiness economics.\n\n'Happiness' is the subject of debate on usage and meaning, and on possible differences in understanding by culture.\n\nThe word is used in several related areas:\n\n\nThese uses can give different results. For instance the correlation of income levels has been shown to be substantial with life satisfaction measures, but to be far weaker, at least above a certain threshold, with affect measures.\n\nThe implied meaning of the word may vary depending on context, qualifying happiness as a polyseme and a fuzzy concept. \n\nSome users accept these issues, but continue to use the word because of its convening power.\n\nIn the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", written in 350 BCE, Aristotle stated that happiness (also being well and doing well) is the only thing that humans desire for its own sake, unlike riches, honour, health or friendship. He observed that men sought riches, or honour, or health not only for their own sake but also in order to be happy. Note that \"eudaimonia\", the term we translate as \"happiness\", is for Aristotle an activity rather than an emotion or a state. Thus understood, the happy life is the good life, that is, a life in which a person fulfills human nature in an excellent way. Specifically, Aristotle argues that the good life is the life of excellent rational activity. He arrives at this claim with the Function Argument. Basically, if it's right, every living thing has a function, that which it uniquely does. For humans, Aristotle contends, our function is to reason, since it is that alone that we uniquely do. And performing one's function well, or excellently, is good. Thus, according to Aristotle, the life of excellent rational activity is the happy life. Aristotle does not leave it at that, however. He argues that there is a second best life for those incapable of excellent rational activity. This second best life is the life of moral virtue.\n\nMany ethicists make arguments for how humans should behave, either individually or collectively, based on the resulting happiness of such behavior. Utilitarians, such as John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham, advocated the greatest happiness principle as a guide for ethical behavior.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche savagely critiqued the English Utilitarians' focus on attaining the greatest happiness, stating that \"Man does not strive for happiness, only the Englishman does.\" Nietzsche meant that making happiness one's ultimate \"goal\" and the aim of one's existence, in his words \"makes one contemptible.\" Nietzsche instead yearned for a culture that would set higher, more difficult goals than \"mere happiness.\" He introduced the quasi-dystopic figure of the \"last man\" as a kind of thought experiment against the utilitarians and happiness-seekers. these small, \"last men\" who seek after only their own pleasure and health, avoiding all danger, exertion, difficulty, challenge, struggle are meant to seem contemptible to Nietzsche's reader. Nietzsche instead wants us to consider the value of what is difficult, what can only be earned through struggle, difficulty, pain and thus to come to see the affirmative value suffering and \"unhappiness\" truly play in creating everything of great worth in life, including all the highest achievements of human culture, not least of all philosophy.\n\nDarrin McMahon claims that there has been a transition over time from emphasis on the happiness of virtue to the virtue of happiness.\n\nHappiness may be said to be a relative concept; the source of happiness for one person might not be the source of happiness for another.\n\nNot all cultures seek to maximise happiness, and some cultures are averse to happiness.\n\nHappiness forms a central theme of Buddhist teachings. For ultimate freedom from suffering, the Noble Eightfold Path leads its practitioner to Nirvana, a state of everlasting peace. Ultimate happiness is only achieved by overcoming craving in all forms. More mundane forms of happiness, such as acquiring wealth and maintaining good friendships, are also recognized as worthy goals for lay people (see \"sukha\"). Buddhism also encourages the generation of loving kindness and compassion, the desire for the happiness and welfare of all beings.\n\nIn Advaita Vedanta, the ultimate goal of life is happiness, in the sense that duality between Atman and Brahman is transcended and one realizes oneself to be the Self in all.\n\nPatanjali, author of the Yoga Sutras, wrote quite exhaustively on the psychological and ontological roots of bliss.\n\nThe Chinese Confucian thinker Mencius, who had sought to give advice to ruthless political leaders during China's Warring States period, was convinced that the mind played a mediating role between the \"lesser self\" (the physiological self) and the \"greater self\" (the moral self), and that getting the priorities right between these two would lead to sage-hood. He argued that if one did not feel satisfaction or pleasure in nourishing one's \"vital force\" with \"righteous deeds\", then that force would shrivel up (Mencius, 6A:15 2A:2). More specifically, he mentions the experience of intoxicating joy if one celebrates the practice of the great virtues, especially through music.\n\nHappiness or \"simcha\" () in Judaism is considered an important element in the service of God. The biblical verse \"worship The Lord with gladness; come before him with joyful songs,\" () stresses joy in the service of God. A popular teaching by Rabbi Nachman of Breslov, a 19th-century Chassidic Rabbi, is \"\"Mitzvah Gedolah Le'hiyot Besimcha Tamid\",\" it is a great mitzvah (commandment) to always be in a state of happiness. When a person is happy they are much more capable of serving God and going about their daily activities than when depressed or upset.\n\nThe primary meaning of \"happiness\" in various European languages involves good fortune, chance or happening. The meaning in Greek philosophy, however, refers primarily to ethics.\n\nIn Catholicism, the ultimate end of human existence consists in felicity, Latin equivalent to the Greek \"eudaimonia\", or \"blessed happiness\", described by the 13th-century philosopher-theologian Thomas Aquinas as a Beatific Vision of God's essence in the next life.\n\nAccording to St. Augustine and Thomas Aquinas, man's last end is happiness: \"all men agree in desiring the last end, which is happiness.\" However, where utilitarians focused on reasoning about consequences as the primary tool for reaching happiness, Aquinas agreed with Aristotle that happiness cannot be reached solely through reasoning about consequences of acts, but also requires a pursuit of good causes for acts, such as habits according to virtue. In turn, which habits and acts that normally lead to happiness is according to Aquinas caused by laws: natural law and divine law. These laws, in turn, were according to Aquinas caused by a first cause, or God.\n\nAccording to Aquinas, happiness consists in an \"operation of the speculative intellect\": \"Consequently happiness consists principally in such an operation, viz. in the contemplation of Divine things.\" And, \"the last end cannot consist in the active life, which pertains to the practical intellect.\" So: \"Therefore the last and perfect happiness, which we await in the life to come, consists entirely in contemplation. But imperfect happiness, such as can be had here, consists first and principally in contemplation, but secondarily, in an operation of the practical intellect directing human actions and passions.\"\n\nHuman complexities, like reason and cognition, can produce well-being or happiness, but such form is limited and transitory. In temporal life, the contemplation of God, the infinitely Beautiful, is the supreme delight of the will. \"Beatitudo\", or perfect happiness, as complete well-being, is to be attained not in this life, but the next.\n\nAl-Ghazali (1058–1111), the Muslim Sufi thinker, wrote \"The Alchemy of Happiness\", a manual of spiritual instruction throughout the Muslim world and widely practiced today.\n\nHappiness in its broad sense is the label for a family of pleasant emotional states, such as joy, amusement, satisfaction, gratification, euphoria, and triumph.\n\nHappiness can be examined in experiential and evaluative contexts. Experiential well-being, or \"objective happiness\", is happiness measured in the moment via questions such as \"How good or bad is your experience now?\". In contrast, evaluative well-being asks questions such as \"How good was your vacation?\" and measures one's subjective thoughts and feelings about happiness in the past. Experiential well-being is less prone to errors in reconstructive memory, but the majority of literature on happiness refers to evaluative well-being. The two measures of happiness can be related by heuristics such as the peak-end rule.\n\nSome commentators focus on the difference between the hedonistic tradition of seeking pleasant and avoiding unpleasant experiences, and the eudaimonic tradition of living life in a full and deeply satisfying way.\n\nTheories on how to achieve happiness include \"encountering unexpected positive events\", \"seeing a significant other\", and \"basking in the acceptance and praise of others\". \nHowever others believe that happiness is not solely derived from external, momentary pleasures.\n\nMaslow's hierarchy of needs is a pyramid depicting the levels of human needs, psychological, and physical. When a human being ascends the steps of the pyramid, he reaches self-actualization. Beyond the routine of needs fulfillment, Maslow envisioned moments of extraordinary experience, known as peak experiences, profound moments of love, understanding, happiness, or rapture, during which a person feels more whole, alive, self-sufficient, and yet a part of the world. This is similar to the flow concept of Mihály Csíkszentmihályi. Amitai Etzioni points out that Maslow's definition of human needs, even on the highest level, that of self-actualization, is self-centered (i.e. his view of satisfaction or what makes a person happy, does not include service to others or the common good—unless it enriches the self). As implied by its name, self-actualization is highly individualistic and reflects Maslow's premise that the self is “sovereign and inviolable” and entitled to “his or her own tastes, opinions, values, etc.”\n\nSelf-determination theory relates intrinsic motivation to three needs: competence, autonomy, and relatedness.\n\nRonald Inglehart has traced cross-national differences in the level of happiness based on data from the World Values Survey. He finds that the extent to which a society allows free choice has a major impact on happiness. When basic needs are satisfied, the degree of happiness depends on economic and cultural factors that enable free choice in how people live their lives. Happiness also depends on religion in countries where free choice is constrained.\n\nSince 2000 the field of positive psychology has expanded drastically in terms of scientific publications, and has produced many different views on causes of happiness, and on factors that correlate with happiness. Numerous short-term self-help interventions have been developed and demonstrated to improve happiness.\n\nSeveral scales have been developed to measure happiness:\n\nThe UK began to measure national well being in 2012, following Bhutan, which already measured gross national happiness.\n\nThe 2012 World Happiness Report stated that in subjective well-being measures, the primary distinction is between cognitive life evaluations and emotional reports. Happiness is used in both life evaluation, as in “How happy are you with your life as a whole?”, and in emotional reports, as in “How happy are you now?,” and people seem able to use happiness as appropriate in these verbal contexts. Using these measures, the World Happiness Report identifies the countries with the highest levels of happiness.\n\nEtzioni argues that happiness is the wrong metric, because it does not take into account that doing the right thing, what is moral, often does not produce happiness in the way this term is usually used.\n\nHappiness has been found to be quite stable over time.\n\nEven though no evidence of happiness causing improved physical health has been found, the topic is being researched by Laura Kubzansky, a professor at the Lee Kum Sheung Center for Health and Happiness at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard University. A positive relationship has been suggested between the volume of gray matter in the right precuneus area of the brain and the subject's subjective happiness score.\n\nJune Gruber suggests that seeking happiness can have negative effects, such as failure to meet over-high expectations, and instead advocates a more open stance to all emotions. Other research has analysed possible trade-offs between happiness and meaning in life. Not all cultures seek to maximise happiness.\n\nIn politics, \"happiness\" as a guiding ideal is expressed in the United States Declaration of Independence of 1776, written by Thomas Jefferson, as the universal right to \"the pursuit of happiness.\" This seems to suggest a subjective interpretation but one that nonetheless goes beyond emotions alone. In fact, this discussion is often based on the naive assumption that the word \"happiness\" meant the same thing in 1776 as it does today. In fact, \"happiness\" meant \"prosperity, thriving, wellbeing\" in the 18th century.\n\nCommon market health measures such as GDP and GNP have been used as a measure of successful policy. On average richer nations tend to be happier than poorer nations, but this effect seems to diminish with wealth. This has been explained by the fact that the dependency is not linear but logarithmic, i.e., the same percentual increase in the GNP produces the same increase in happiness for wealthy countries as for poor countries. Increasingly, academic economists and international economic organisations are arguing for and developing multi-dimensional dashboards which combine subjective and objective indicators to provide a more direct and explicit assessment of human wellbeing. Work by Paul Anand and colleagues helps to highlight the fact that there many different contributors to adult wellbeing, that happiness judgement reflect, in part, the presence of salient constraints, and that fairness, autonomy, community and engagement are key aspects of happiness and wellbeing throughout the life course.\n\nLibertarian think tank Cato Institute claims that economic freedom correlates strongly with happiness preferably within the context of a western mixed economy, with free press and a democracy. According to certain standards, East European countries (ruled by Communist parties) were less happy than Western ones, even less happy than other equally poor countries.\n\nHowever, much empirical research in the field of happiness economics, such as that by Benjamin Radcliff, professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, supports the contention that (at least in democratic countries) life satisfaction is strongly and positively related to the social democratic model of a generous social safety net, pro-worker labor market regulations, and strong labor unions. Similarly, there is evidence that public policies that reduce poverty and support a strong middle class, such as a higher minimum wage, strongly affects average levels of well-being.\n\nIt has been argued that happiness measures could be used not as a replacement for more traditional measures, but as a supplement. According to professor Edward Glaeser, people constantly make choices that decrease their happiness, because they have also more important aims. Therefore, the government should not decrease the alternatives available for the citizen by patronizing them but let the citizen keep a maximal freedom of choice.\n\nGood mental health and good relationships contribute more than income to happiness and governments should take these into account.\n\nResearch on positive psychology, well-being, eudaimonia and happiness, and the theories of Diener, Ryff, Keyes, and Seligmann covers a broad range of levels and topics, including \"the biological, personal, relational, institutional, cultural, and global dimensions of life.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77432", "title": "Hypertension", "text": "Hypertension\n\nHypertension (HTN or HT), also known as high blood pressure (HBP), is a long-term medical condition in which the blood pressure in the arteries is persistently elevated. High blood pressure typically does not cause symptoms. Long-term high blood pressure, however, is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease, stroke, heart failure, atrial fibrillation, peripheral vascular disease, vision loss, chronic kidney disease, and dementia.\nHigh blood pressure is classified as either primary (essential) high blood pressure or secondary high blood pressure. About 90–95% of cases are primary, defined as high blood pressure due to nonspecific lifestyle and genetic factors. Lifestyle factors that increase the risk include excess salt in the diet, excess body weight, smoking, and alcohol use. The remaining 5–10% of cases are categorized as secondary high blood pressure, defined as high blood pressure due to an identifiable cause, such as chronic kidney disease, narrowing of the kidney arteries, an endocrine disorder, or the use of birth control pills.\nBlood pressure is expressed by two measurements, the systolic and diastolic pressures, which are the maximum and minimum pressures, respectively. For most adults, normal blood pressure at rest is within the range of 100–130 millimeters mercury (mmHg) systolic and 60–80 mmHg diastolic. For most adults, high blood pressure is present if the resting blood pressure is persistently at or above 130/80 or 140/90 mmHg. Different numbers apply to children. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring over a 24-hour period appears more accurate than office-based blood pressure measurement.\nLifestyle changes and medications can lower blood pressure and decrease the risk of health complications. Lifestyle changes include weight loss, physical exercise, decreased salt intake, reducing alcohol intake and a healthy diet. If lifestyle changes are not sufficient then blood pressure medications are used. Up to three medications can control blood pressure in 90% of people. The treatment of moderately high arterial blood pressure (defined as >160/100 mmHg) with medications is associated with an improved life expectancy. The effect of treatment of blood pressure between 130/80 mmHg and 160/100 mmHg is less clear, with some reviews finding benefit and others finding unclear benefit. High blood pressure affects between 16 and 37% of the population globally. In 2010 hypertension was believed to have been a factor in 18% of all deaths (9.4 million globally).\nHypertension is rarely accompanied by symptoms, and its identification is usually through screening, or when seeking healthcare for an unrelated problem. Some people with high blood pressure report headaches (particularly at the back of the head and in the morning), as well as lightheadedness, vertigo, tinnitus (buzzing or hissing in the ears), altered vision or fainting episodes. These symptoms, however, might be related to associated anxiety rather than the high blood pressure itself.\n\nOn physical examination, hypertension may be associated with the presence of changes in the optic fundus seen by ophthalmoscopy. The severity of the changes typical of hypertensive retinopathy is graded from I–IV; grades I and II may be difficult to differentiate. The severity of the retinopathy correlates roughly with the duration or the severity of the hypertension.\n\nHypertension with certain specific additional signs and symptoms may suggest secondary hypertension, i.e. hypertension due to an identifiable cause. For example, Cushing's syndrome frequently causes truncal obesity, glucose intolerance, moon face, a hump of fat behind the neck/shoulder (referred to as a buffalo hump), and purple abdominal stretch marks. Hyperthyroidism frequently causes weight loss with increased appetite, fast heart rate, bulging eyes, and tremor. Renal artery stenosis (RAS) may be associated with a localized abdominal bruit to the left or right of the midline (unilateral RAS), or in both locations (bilateral RAS). Coarctation of the aorta frequently causes a decreased blood pressure in the lower extremities relative to the arms, or delayed or absent femoral arterial pulses. Pheochromocytoma may cause abrupt (\"paroxysmal\") episodes of hypertension accompanied by headache, palpitations, pale appearance, and excessive sweating.\n\nSeverely elevated blood pressure (equal to or greater than a systolic 180 or diastolic of 110) is referred to as a hypertensive crisis. Hypertensive crisis is categorized as either hypertensive urgency or hypertensive emergency, according to the absence or presence of end organ damage, respectively.\n\nIn hypertensive urgency, there is no evidence of end organ damage resulting from the elevated blood pressure. In these cases, oral medications are used to lower the BP gradually over 24 to 48 hours.\n\nIn hypertensive emergency, there is evidence of direct damage to one or more organs. The most affected organs include the brain, kidney, heart and lungs, producing symptoms which may include confusion, drowsiness, chest pain and breathlessness. In hypertensive emergency, the blood pressure must be reduced more rapidly to stop ongoing organ damage, however, there is a lack of randomized controlled trial evidence for this approach.\n\nHypertension occurs in approximately 8–10% of pregnancies. Two blood pressure measurements six hours apart of greater than 140/90 mm Hg is diagnostic of hypertension in pregnancy. High blood pressure in pregnancy can be classified as pre-existing hypertension, gestational hypertension, or pre-eclampsia.\n\nPre-eclampsia is a serious condition of the second half of pregnancy and following delivery characterised by increased blood pressure and the presence of protein in the urine. It occurs in about 5% of pregnancies and is responsible for approximately 16% of all maternal deaths globally. Pre-eclampsia also doubles the risk of death of the baby around the time of birth. Usually there are no symptoms in pre-eclampsia and it is detected by routine screening. When symptoms of pre-eclampsia occur the most common are headache, visual disturbance (often \"flashing lights\"), vomiting, pain over the stomach, and swelling. Pre-eclampsia can occasionally progress to a life-threatening condition called eclampsia, which is a hypertensive emergency and has several serious complications including vision loss, brain swelling, seizures, kidney failure, pulmonary edema, and disseminated intravascular coagulation (a blood clotting disorder).\n\nIn contrast, gestational hypertension is defined as new-onset hypertension during pregnancy without protein in the urine.\n\nFailure to thrive, seizures, irritability, lack of energy, and difficulty in breathing can be associated with hypertension in newborns and young infants. In older infants and children, hypertension can cause headache, unexplained irritability, fatigue, failure to thrive, blurred vision, nosebleeds, and facial paralysis.\n\nHypertension results from a complex interaction of genes and environmental factors. Numerous common genetic variants with small effects on blood pressure have been identified as well as some rare genetic variants with large effects on blood pressure. Also, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified 35 genetic loci related to blood pressure; 12 of these genetic loci influencing blood pressure were newly found. Sentinel SNP for each new genetic locus identified has shown an association with DNA methylation at multiple nearby CpG sites. These sentinel SNP are located within genes related to vascular smooth muscle and renal function. DNA methylation might affect in some way linking common genetic variation to multiple phenotypes even though mechanisms underlying these associations are not understood. Single variant test performed in this study for the 35 sentinel SNP (known and new) showed that genetic variants singly or in aggregate contribute to risk of clinical phenotypes related to high blood pressure.\n\nBlood pressure rises with aging and the risk of becoming hypertensive in later life is considerable. Several environmental factors influence blood pressure. High salt intake raises the blood pressure in salt sensitive individuals; lack of exercise, obesity, and depression can play a role in individual cases. The possible roles of other factors such as caffeine consumption, and vitamin D deficiency are less clear. Insulin resistance, which is common in obesity and is a component of syndrome X (or the metabolic syndrome), is also thought to contribute to hypertension. One review suggests that sugar may play an important role in hypertension and salt is just an innocent bystander.\n\nEvents in early life, such as low birth weight, maternal smoking, and lack of breastfeeding may be risk factors for adult essential hypertension, although the mechanisms linking these exposures to adult hypertension remain unclear. An increased rate of high blood urea has been found in untreated people with hypertension in comparison with people with normal blood pressure, although it is uncertain whether the former plays a causal role or is subsidiary to poor kidney function. Average blood pressure may be higher in the winter than in the summer.\n\nSecondary hypertension results from an identifiable cause. Kidney disease is the most common secondary cause of hypertension. Hypertension can also be caused by endocrine conditions, such as Cushing's syndrome, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, acromegaly, Conn's syndrome or hyperaldosteronism, renal artery stenosis (from atherosclerosis or fibromuscular dysplasia), hyperparathyroidism, and pheochromocytoma. Other causes of secondary hypertension include obesity, sleep apnea, pregnancy, coarctation of the aorta, excessive eating of liquorice, excessive drinking of alcohol, and certain prescription medicines, herbal remedies, and illegal drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamine. Arsenic exposure through drinking water has been shown to correlate with elevated blood pressure.\n\nA 2018 review found that any alcohol increased blood pressure in males while over one or two drinks increased the risk in females.\n\nIn most people with established essential hypertension, increased resistance to blood flow (total peripheral resistance) accounts for the high pressure while cardiac output remains normal. There is evidence that some younger people with prehypertension or 'borderline hypertension' have high cardiac output, an elevated heart rate and normal peripheral resistance, termed hyperkinetic borderline hypertension. These individuals develop the typical features of established essential hypertension in later life as their cardiac output falls and peripheral resistance rises with age. Whether this pattern is typical of all people who ultimately develop hypertension is disputed. The increased peripheral resistance in established hypertension is mainly attributable to structural narrowing of small arteries and arterioles, although a reduction in the number or density of capillaries may also contribute.\n\nIt is not clear whether or not vasoconstriction of arteriolar blood vessels plays a role in hypertension. Hypertension is also associated with decreased peripheral venous compliance which may increase venous return, increase cardiac preload and, ultimately, cause diastolic dysfunction.\n\nPulse pressure (the difference between systolic and diastolic blood pressure) is frequently increased in older people with hypertension. This can mean that systolic pressure is abnormally high, but diastolic pressure may be normal or low a condition termed isolated systolic hypertension. The high pulse pressure in elderly people with hypertension or isolated systolic hypertension is explained by increased arterial stiffness, which typically accompanies aging and may be exacerbated by high blood pressure.\n\nMany mechanisms have been proposed to account for the rise in peripheral resistance in hypertension. Most evidence implicates either disturbances in the kidneys' salt and water handling (particularly abnormalities in the intrarenal renin–angiotensin system) or abnormalities of the sympathetic nervous system. These mechanisms are not mutually exclusive and it is likely that both contribute to some extent in most cases of essential hypertension. It has also been suggested that endothelial dysfunction and vascular inflammation may also contribute to increased peripheral resistance and vascular damage in hypertension. Interleukin 17 has garnered interest for its role in increasing the production of several other immune system chemical signals thought to be involved in hypertension such as tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin 1, interleukin 6, and interleukin 8.\n\nConsumption of excessive sodium and/or insufficient potassium leads to excessive intracellular sodium, which contracts vascular smooth muscle, restricting blood flow and so increases blood pressure.\n\nHypertension is diagnosed on the basis of a persistently high resting blood pressure. The American Heart Association recommends at least three resting measurements on at least two separate health care visits. The UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recommends ambulatory blood pressure monitoring to confirm the diagnosis of hypertension if a clinic blood pressure is 140/90 mmHg or higher.\n\nFor an accurate diagnosis of hypertension to be made, it is essential for proper blood pressure measurement technique to be used. Improper measurement of blood pressure is common and can change the blood pressure reading by up to 10 mmHg, which can lead to misdiagnosis and misclassification of hypertension. Correct blood pressure measurement technique involves several steps. Proper blood pressure measurement requires the person whose blood pressure is being measured to sit quietly for at least five minutes which is then followed by application of a properly fitted blood pressure cuff to a bare upper arm. The person should be seated with their back supported, feet flat on the floor, and with their legs uncrossed. The person whose blood pressure is being measured should avoid talking or moving during this process. The arm being measured should be supported on a flat surface at the level of the heart. Blood pressure measurement should be done in a quiet room so the medical professional checking the blood pressure can hear the Korotkoff sounds while listening to the brachial artery with a stethoscope for accurate blood pressure measurements. The blood pressure cuff should be deflated slowly (2-3 mmHg per second) while listening for the Korotkoff sounds. The bladder should be emptied before a person's blood pressure is measured since this can increase blood pressure by up to 15/10 mmHg. Multiple blood pressure readings (at least two) spaced 1–2 minutes apart should be obtained to ensure accuracy. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring over 12 to 24 hours is the most accurate method to confirm the diagnosis.\n\nAn exception to this is those with very high blood pressure readings especially when there is poor organ function. Initial assessment of the hypertensive people should include a complete history and physical examination. With the availability of 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitors and home blood pressure machines, the importance of not wrongly diagnosing those who have white coat hypertension has led to a change in protocols. In the United Kingdom, current best practice is to follow up a single raised clinic reading with ambulatory measurement, or less ideally with home blood pressure monitoring over the course of 7 days. The United States Preventive Services Task Force also recommends getting measurements outside of the healthcare environment. Pseudohypertension in the elderly or noncompressibility artery syndrome may also require consideration. This condition is believed to be due to calcification of the arteries resulting in abnormally high blood pressure readings with a blood pressure cuff while intra arterial measurements of blood pressure are normal. Orthostatic hypertension is when blood pressure increases upon standing.\n\nOnce the diagnosis of hypertension has been made, healthcare providers should attempt to identify the underlying cause based on risk factors and other symptoms, if present. Secondary hypertension is more common in preadolescent children, with most cases caused by kidney disease. Primary or essential hypertension is more common in adolescents and has multiple risk factors, including obesity and a family history of hypertension. Laboratory tests can also be performed to identify possible causes of secondary hypertension, and to determine whether hypertension has caused damage to the heart, eyes, and kidneys. Additional tests for diabetes and high cholesterol levels are usually performed because these conditions are additional risk factors for the development of heart disease and may require treatment.\n\nSerum creatinine is measured to assess for the presence of kidney disease, which can be either the cause or the result of hypertension. Serum creatinine alone may overestimate glomerular filtration rate and recent guidelines advocate the use of predictive equations such as the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula to estimate glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). eGFR can also provide a baseline measurement of kidney function that can be used to monitor for side effects of certain anti-hypertensive drugs on kidney function. Additionally, testing of urine samples for protein is used as a secondary indicator of kidney disease. Electrocardiogram (EKG/ECG) testing is done to check for evidence that the heart is under strain from high blood pressure. It may also show whether there is thickening of the heart muscle (left ventricular hypertrophy) or whether the heart has experienced a prior minor disturbance such as a silent heart attack. A chest X-ray or an echocardiogram may also be performed to look for signs of heart enlargement or damage to the heart.\n\nIn people aged 18 years or older hypertension is defined as either a systolic or a diastolic blood pressure measurement consistently higher than an accepted normal value (this is above 129 or 139 mmHg systolic, 89 mmHg diastolic depending on the guideline). Other thresholds are used (135 mmHg systolic or 85 mmHg diastolic) if measurements are derived from 24-hour ambulatory or home monitoring. Recent international hypertension guidelines have also created categories below the hypertensive range to indicate a continuum of risk with higher blood pressures in the normal range. The \"Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation and Treatment of High Blood Pressure\" (JNC7) published in 2003 uses the term prehypertension for blood pressure in the range 120–139 mmHg systolic or 80–89 mmHg diastolic, while European Society of Hypertension Guidelines (2007) and British Hypertension Society (BHS) IV (2004) use optimal, normal and high normal categories to subdivide pressures below 140 mmHg systolic and 90 mmHg diastolic. Hypertension is also sub-classified: JNC7 distinguishes hypertension stage I, hypertension stage II, and isolated systolic hypertension. Isolated systolic hypertension refers to elevated systolic pressure with normal diastolic pressure and is common in the elderly. The ESH-ESC Guidelines (2007) and BHS IV (2004) additionally define a third stage (stage III hypertension) for people with systolic blood pressure exceeding 179 mmHg or a diastolic pressure over 109 mmHg. Hypertension is classified as \"resistant\" if medications do not reduce blood pressure to normal levels. In November 2017, the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology published a joint guideline which updates the recommendations of the JNC7 report.\n\nHypertension occurs in around 0.2 to 3% of newborns; however, blood pressure is not measured routinely in healthy newborns. Hypertension is more common in high risk newborns. A variety of factors, such as gestational age, postconceptional age and birth weight needs to be taken into account when deciding if a blood pressure is normal in a newborn.\n\nHypertension defined as elevated blood pressure over several visits affects 1% to 5% of children and adolescents and is associated with long term risks of ill-health. Blood pressure rises with age in childhood and, in children, hypertension is defined as an average systolic or diastolic blood pressure on three or more occasions equal or higher than the 95th percentile appropriate for the sex, age and height of the child. High blood pressure must be confirmed on repeated visits however before characterizing a child as having hypertension. Prehypertension in children has been defined as average systolic or diastolic blood pressure that is greater than or equal to the 90th percentile, but less than the 95th percentile. In adolescents, it has been proposed that hypertension and pre-hypertension are diagnosed and classified using the same criteria as in adults.\n\nThe value of routine screening for hypertension in children over the age of 3 years is debated. In 2004 the National High Blood Pressure Education Program recommended that children aged 3 years and older have blood pressure measurement at\nleast once at every health care visit and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and American Academy of Pediatrics made a similar recommendation. However, the American Academy of Family Physicians supports the view of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force that the available evidence is insufficient to determine the balance of benefits and harms of screening for hypertension in children and adolescents who do not have symptoms.\n\nMuch of the disease burden of high blood pressure is experienced by people who are not labeled as hypertensive. Consequently, population strategies are required to reduce the consequences of high blood pressure and reduce the need for antihypertensive medications. Lifestyle changes are recommended to lower blood pressure, before starting medications. The 2004 British Hypertension Society guidelines proposed lifestyle changes consistent with those outlined by the US National High BP Education Program in 2002 for the primary prevention of hypertension:\nEffective lifestyle modification may lower blood pressure as much as an individual antihypertensive medication. Combinations of two or more lifestyle modifications can achieve even better results. There is considerable evidence that reducing dietary salt intake lowers blood pressure, but whether this translates into a reduction in mortality and cardiovascular disease remains uncertain. Estimated sodium intake ≥6g/day and <3g/day are both associated with high risk of death or major cardiovascular disease, but the association between high sodium intake and adverse outcomes is only observed in people with hypertension. Consequently, in the absence of results from randomized controlled trials, the wisdom of reducing levels of dietary salt intake below 3g/day has been questioned.\n\nAccording to one review published in 2003, reduction of the blood pressure by 5 mmHg can decrease the risk of stroke by 34%, of ischemic heart disease by 21%, and reduce the likelihood of dementia, heart failure, and mortality from cardiovascular disease.\n\nVarious expert groups have produced guidelines regarding how low the blood pressure target should be when a person is treated for hypertension. These groups recommend a target below the range 140–160 / 90–100 mmHg for the general population. Cochrane reviews recommend similar targets for subgroups such as people with diabetes and people with prior cardiovascular disease.\n\nMany expert groups recommend a slightly higher target of 150/90 mmHg for those over somewhere between 60 and 80 years of age. The JNC-8 and American College of Physicians recommend the target of 150/90 mmHg for those over 60 years of age, but some experts within these groups disagree with this recommendation. Some expert groups have also recommended slightly lower targets in those with diabetes or chronic kidney disease with protein loss in the urine, but others recommend the same target as for the general population. The issue of what is the best target and whether targets should differ for high risk individuals is unresolved, although some experts propose more intensive blood pressure lowering than advocated in some guidelines.\n\nThe first line of treatment for hypertension is lifestyle changes, including dietary changes, physical exercise, and weight loss. Though these have all been recommended in scientific advisories, a Cochrane systematic review found no evidence for effects of weight loss diets on death, long-term complications or adverse events in persons with hypertension. The review did find a decrease in blood pressure. Their potential effectiveness is similar to and at times exceeds a single medication. If hypertension is high enough to justify immediate use of medications, lifestyle changes are still recommended in conjunction with medication.\n\nDietary changes shown to reduce blood pressure include diets with low sodium, the DASH diet, vegetarian diets, and green tea consumption.\n\nIncreasing dietary potassium has a potential benefit for lowering the risk of hypertension. The 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee (DGAC) stated that potassium is one of the shortfall nutrients which is under-consumed in the United States.\n\nPhysical exercise regimens which are shown to reduce blood pressure include isometric resistance exercise, aerobic exercise, resistance exercise, and device-guided breathing.\n\nStress reduction techniques such as biofeedback or transcendental meditation may be considered as an add-on to other treatments to reduce hypertension, but do not have evidence for preventing cardiovascular disease on their own. Self-monitoring and appointment reminders might support the use of other strategies to improve blood pressure control, but need further evaluation.\n\nSeveral classes of medications, collectively referred to as antihypertensive medications, are available for treating hypertension.\n\nFirst-line medications for hypertension include thiazide-diuretics, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors), and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs). These medications may be used alone or in combination (ACE inhibitors and ARBs are not recommended for use in combination); the latter option may serve to minimize counter-regulatory mechanisms that act to restore blood pressure values to pre-treatment levels. Most people require more than one medication to control their hypertension. Medications for blood pressure control should be implemented by a stepped care approach when target levels are not reached.\n\nPreviously beta-blockers such as atenolol were thought to have similar beneficial effects when used as first-line therapy for hypertension. However, a Cochrane review that included 13 trials found that the effects of beta-blockers are inferior to that of other antihypertensive medications in preventing cardiovascular disease.\n\nResistant hypertension is defined as high blood pressure that remains above a target level, in spite of being prescribed three or more antihypertensive drugs simultaneously with different mechanisms of action. Failing to take the prescribed drugs, is an important cause of resistant hypertension. Resistant hypertension may also result from chronically high activity of the autonomic nervous system, an effect known as \"neurogenic hypertension\". Electrical therapies that stimulate the baroreflex are being studied as an option for lowering blood pressure in people in this situation.\n\n, approximately one billion adults or ~22% of the population of the world have hypertension. It is slightly more frequent in men, in those of low socioeconomic status, and it becomes more common with age. It is common in high, medium, and low income countries. In 2004 rates of high blood pressure were highest in Africa, (30% for both sexes) and lowest in the Americas (18% for both sexes). Rates also vary markedly within regions with rates as low as 3.4% (men) and 6.8% (women) in rural India and as high as 68.9% (men) and 72.5% (women) in Poland. Rates in Africa were about 45% in 2016.\n\nIn Europe hypertension occurs in about 30-45% of people . In 1995 it was estimated that 43 million people (24% of the population) in the United States had hypertension or were taking antihypertensive medication. By 2004 this had increased to 29% and further to 32% (76 million US adults) by 2017. In 2017, with the change in definitions for hypertension, 46% of people in the United States are affected. African-American adults in the United States have among the highest rates of hypertension in the world at 44%. It is also more common in Filipino Americans and less common in US whites and Mexican Americans. Differences in hypertension rates are multifactorial and under study.\n\nRates of high blood pressure in children and adolescents have increased in the last 20 years in the United States. Childhood hypertension, particularly in pre-adolescents, is more often secondary to an underlying disorder than in adults. Kidney disease is the most common secondary cause of hypertension in children and adolescents. Nevertheless, primary or essential hypertension accounts for most cases.\n\nHypertension is the most important preventable risk factor for premature death worldwide. It increases the risk of ischemic heart disease, strokes, peripheral vascular disease, and other cardiovascular diseases, including heart failure, aortic aneurysms, diffuse atherosclerosis, chronic kidney disease, atrial fibrillation, and pulmonary embolism. Hypertension is also a risk factor for cognitive impairment and dementia. Other complications include hypertensive retinopathy and hypertensive nephropathy.\n\nModern understanding of the cardiovascular system began with the work of physician William Harvey (1578–1657), who described the circulation of blood in his book \"De motu cordis\". The English clergyman Stephen Hales made the first published measurement of blood pressure in 1733. However, hypertension as a clinical entity came into its own with the invention of the cuff-based sphygmomanometer by Scipione Riva-Rocci in 1896. This allowed easy measurement of systolic pressure in the clinic. In 1905, Nikolai Korotkoff improved the technique by describing the Korotkoff sounds that are heard when the artery is ausculated with a stethoscope while the sphygmomanometer cuff is deflated. This permitted systolic and diastolic pressure to be measured.\n\nThe symptoms similar to symptoms of patients with hypertensive crisis are discussed in medieval Persian medical texts in the chapter of \"fullness disease\". The symptoms include headache, heaviness in the head, sluggish movements, general redness and warm to touch feel of the body, prominent, distended and tense vessels, fullness of the pulse, distension of the skin, coloured and dense urine, loss of appetite, weak eyesight, impairment of thinking, yawning, drowsiness, vascular rupture, and hemorrhagic stroke. Fullness disease was presumed to be due to an excessive amount of blood within the blood vessels.\n\nDescriptions of hypertension as a disease came among others from Thomas Young in 1808 and especially Richard Bright in 1836. The first report of elevated blood pressure in a person without evidence of kidney disease was made by Frederick Akbar Mahomed (1849–1884).\n\nHistorically the treatment for what was called the \"hard pulse disease\" consisted in reducing the quantity of blood by bloodletting or the application of leeches. This was advocated by The Yellow Emperor of China, Cornelius Celsus, Galen, and Hippocrates. The therapeutic approach for the treatment of hard pulse disease included changes in lifestyle (staying away from anger and sexual intercourse) and dietary program for patients (avoiding the consumption of wine, meat, and pastries, reducing the volume of food in a meal, maintaining a low-energy diet and the dietary usage of spinach and vinegar).\n\nIn the 19th and 20th centuries, before effective pharmacological treatment for hypertension became possible, three treatment modalities were used, all with numerous side-effects: strict sodium restriction (for example the rice diet), sympathectomy (surgical ablation of parts of the sympathetic nervous system), and pyrogen therapy (injection of substances that caused a fever, indirectly reducing blood pressure).\n\nThe first chemical for hypertension, sodium thiocyanate, was used in 1900 but had many side effects and was unpopular. Several other agents were developed after the Second World War, the most popular and reasonably effective of which were tetramethylammonium chloride, hexamethonium, hydralazine, and reserpine (derived from the medicinal plant \"Rauwolfia serpentina\"). None of these were well tolerated. A major breakthrough was achieved with the discovery of the first well-tolerated orally available agents. The first was chlorothiazide, the first thiazide diuretic and developed from the antibiotic sulfanilamide, which became available in 1958. Subsequently, beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and renin inhibitors were developed as antihypertensive agents.\n\nThe World Health Organization has identified hypertension, or high blood pressure, as the leading cause of cardiovascular mortality. The World Hypertension League (WHL), an umbrella organization of 85 national hypertension societies and leagues, recognized that more than 50% of the hypertensive population worldwide are unaware of their condition. To address this problem, the WHL initiated a global awareness campaign on hypertension in 2005 and dedicated May 17 of each year as World Hypertension Day (WHD). Over the past three years, more national societies have been engaging in WHD and have been innovative in their activities to get the message to the public. In 2007, there was record participation from 47 member countries of the WHL. During the week of WHD, all these countries – in partnership with their local governments, professional societies, nongovernmental organizations and private industries – promoted hypertension awareness among the public through several media and public rallies. Using mass media such as Internet and television, the message reached more than 250 million people. As the momentum picks up year after year, the WHL is confident that almost all the estimated 1.5 billion people affected by elevated blood pressure can be reached.\n\nHigh blood pressure is the most common chronic medical problem prompting visits to primary health care providers in USA. The American Heart Association estimated the direct and indirect costs of high blood pressure in 2010 as $76.6 billion. In the US 80% of people with hypertension are aware of their condition, 71% take some antihypertensive medication, but only 48% of people aware that they have hypertension adequately control it. Adequate management of hypertension can be hampered by inadequacies in the diagnosis, treatment, or control of high blood pressure. Health care providers face many obstacles to achieving blood pressure control, including resistance to taking multiple medications to reach blood pressure goals. People also face the challenges of adhering to medicine schedules and making lifestyle changes. Nonetheless, the achievement of blood pressure goals is possible, and most importantly, lowering blood pressure significantly reduces the risk of death due to heart disease and stroke, the development of other debilitating conditions, and the cost associated with advanced medical care.\n\nA 2015 review of several studies found that restoring blood vitamin D levels by using supplements (more than 1,000 IU per day) reduced blood pressure in hypertensive individuals when they had existing vitamin D deficiency. The results also demonstrated a correlation of chronically low vitamin D levels with a higher chance of becoming hypertensive. Supplementation with vitamin D over 18 months in normotensive individuals with vitamin D deficiency did not significantly affect blood pressure.\n\nThere is tentative evidence that an increased calcium intake may help in preventing hypertension. However, more studies are needed to assess the optimal dose and the possible side effects.\n\nHypertension in cats is indicated with a systolic blood pressure greater than 150 mm Hg, with amlodipine the usual first-line treatment.\n\nNormal blood pressure can differ substantially between breeds but hypertension in dogs is often diagnosed if systolic blood pressure is above 160 mm Hg particularly if this is associated with target organ damage. Inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system and calcium channel blockers are often used to treat hypertension in dogs, although other drugs may be indicated for specific conditions causing high blood pressure.\n"}
{"id": "24146119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24146119", "title": "Icelandic Red Cross", "text": "Icelandic Red Cross\n\nIcelandic Red Cross has its headquarters in Reykjavík.\n\n"}
{"id": "54650904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54650904", "title": "Infant food safety", "text": "Infant food safety\n\nFoodborne illness (also foodborne disease and colloquially referred to as food poisoning) is any illness resulting from the food spoilage of contaminated food, pathogenic bacteria, viruses, or parasites that contaminate food.\nInfant food safety is the identification of risky food handling practices and the prevention of illness in infants. Fooddborne illness is a serious health issue, especially for babies and children. \nInfants and young children are particularly vulnerable to foodborne illness because their immune systems are not developed enough to fight off foodborne bacterial infections. In fact, 800,000 illnesses affect children under the age of 10 in the U.S. each year.\nTherefore, extra care should be taken when handling and preparing their food.\n\nHandwashing is the first step in maintaining the safety of infant food. Caregivers hands can pick up bacteria and spread bacteria to the baby. Objects that are high in bacteria are:\nHandwashing can remove harmful bacteria and will help to prevent foodborne illness. Instructing other children in a family on good handwashing will help to spread the bacteria that cause illness.\n\nHandwashing is most effective in providing safe food for the infant during 'key times':\n\nThough breastfeeding helps prevent many kinds of sicknesses among infants, caregivers often choose to use infant formula. Promoting food safety in infants requires safe preparation and use.\n\nUse infant formula within two hours of preparation. If the infant does not finish the entire bottle, the remainder is thrown away. If the prepared feed is not used right away, refrigerating it immediately will slow the growth of microorganisms, however it must be used within 24 hours.\n\n\"Cronobacter\", formerly known as Enterobacter sakazakii, is a group of bacteria that can be found in the environment. The germs can also live in dry foods, such as powdered infant formula. Anybody can get sick from \"Cronobacter\", but the infection occurs most often in infants. \"Cronobacter\" infections are rare, but they can be deadly in newborns. Infections in infants usually occur in the first days or weeks of life. \"Cronobacter\" germs can cause dangerous blood infections (sepsis) or infections of the linings surrounding the brain and spine (meningitis). Infants two months of age and younger are most likely to develop meningitis if they get sick with Cronobacter. Infants born prematurely and infants with a lower ability to fight germs and sickness due to illness (such as HIV) or medical treatment (such as chemotherapy for cancer) are also more likely to get sick. The first symptom of \"Cronobacter\" infection in infants is usually a fever, coupled with poor feeding, crying, or very low energy. Parents or caregivers should take an infant with these symptoms to see a doctor.\n\"Cronobacter\" infections can be prevented by:\n\nRecommendations from health organizations for the preparation of infant formula are:\n\n\nIf soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol (check the product label to be sure). Hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol is effective in killing Cronobacter germs. But use soap and water as soon as possible afterward because hand sanitizer does not kill all types of germs and may not work as well if hands are visibly greasy or dirty.\n\n\"Cronobacter\" can also cause diarrhea and urinary tract infections in people of all ages. The infection can be serious for older people and for people whose immune systems are weakened by other illnesses or conditions. They are also more likely to get sick.\n\nCaregivers can prepare infant formula safely by:\n\nThere are two ways to heat bottles with disposable inserts or hard plastic, and glass bottles. A bottle can be placed under hot, running tap water until the desired temperature is reached. This should take one-to-two minutes. A bottle can be placed in a pan after the water has been heated on a stove. The pan can be removed from the heat and set the bottle in it until it is warm. It is safer to shake milk or formula to even out the temperature. Heating breast milk or infant formula in the microwave is not recommended. This results in \"hot spots\" that can scald a baby's mouth and throat.\n\nCow's milk by itself is not appropriate for infants less than one year old. Cow’s milk does not have the correct balance of nutrients for infants to grow and develop normally, and it can cause problems with anemia and kidney function. Raw milk is never appropriate for infants – or anyone else. It should not be consumed by anyone at any time for any purpose. Raw milk can harbor dangerous microorganisms, such as \"Salmonella\", \"E. coli\", and \"Listeria\", that can pose serious health risks. Most infant formula is made with cow's milk, but it has been modified and supplemented with additional nutrients. As a result, the formula is more nutritious and easier for the baby to digest than cow’s milk. Other formula options include soy-based formulas and hypoallergenic (or protein hydrolysate and amino acid-based) formulas. Special formulas are available for babies who are premature or have other health problems.\n\nInfants put anything within reach into their mouths. It is also important to keep all objects that enter baby's mouths (such as pacifiers and teethers) clean. Though research into five-second rule has been done, results are inconclusive.\n\nInfants are introduced to solid foods at different ages. Breast milk alone is sufficient to support optimal growth and development for approximately the first six months after birth. For these very young infants water, juice, and other foods are generally unnecessary. Even when babies enjoy discovering new tastes and textures, solid foods should not replace breastfeeding, but merely complement breast milk as the infant’s main source of nutrients throughout the first year. Beyond one year, as the variety and volume of solid foods gradually increase, breast milk remains an ideal addition to the child’s diet. Parents and caregivers can reduce choking hazards in a child's environment. Special attention should be given to food and nonfood items (e.g., candy, nuts, and coins) commonly involved in choking. Younger children are particularly at risk because of their tendency to place objects in their mouths, poor chewing ability, and narrow airways compared with those of older children. Recommendations are available to guide parents and caregivers about the types of food items that are inappropriate for children aged less than four years. Removal of nonfood choking hazards also is important for infants and children aged less than five years because approximately one third of all choking episodes involve nonfood items.\n\nWhen baby food is microwaved in a jar it often heats unevenly. The hottest places are in the center of the foods. The coolest places are next to the glass sides, which could lead you to believe that the food is not too hot. Safe practices for microwaving food for infants are:\n\nEarly and effective treatment is crucial to prevent morbidity and mortality from childhood choking. Methods taught routinely in courses on cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) or first aid can be lifesaving when instituted early by trained parents and caregivers. Opening the airway quickly by ejecting the foreign body can avoid potentially severe injuries. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that all parents and caregivers participate in the American Heart Association's Basic Lifesaving Course or the American Red Cross' Infant/Child CPR Course. To prevent infant choking, be sure your child has adequate motor skills to swallow food. Do not offer babies or young children high-risk foods, such as chunks of meat, cheese, grapes, or raw vegetables, unless they are cut up into small pieces. Avoid hard foods, such as nuts, seeds, and popcorn.\n\nInfant food safety includes the evaluation of commercially prepared baby food before feeding it to a baby. Examining each jar of commercial baby food before using it and noting the position of the safety button on top of the jar will indicate whether or not the jar has been opened. Unopened baby food in jars will have a safety button that is down. A jar of baby food that is swelling, leaking, contain chipped glass is probably not safe to feed to a baby. Some baby food comes in pouches. If the pouch is leaking or swelling it may not be safe to feed to a baby.\n\nThe Food and Drug administration has published the following \"do's\" and \"don'ts\" regarding commercial baby food safety:\n\n\nHandwashing prevents spreading infection. Washing before and after handling food, after using the bathroom, changing diapers, or handling pets.\n\nCaregivers of infants less than four months old:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11558912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11558912", "title": "James Kennedy (social psychologist)", "text": "James Kennedy (social psychologist)\n\nJames Kennedy (born November 5, 1950) is an American social psychologist, best known as an originator and researcher of particle swarm optimization. The first papers on the topic, by Kennedy and Russell C. Eberhart, were presented in 1995; since then tens of thousands of papers have been published on particle swarms. The Academic Press / Morgan Kaufmann book, \"Swarm Intelligence\", by Kennedy and Eberhart with Yuhui Shi, was published in 2001.\n\nThe particle swarm paradigm draws on social-psychological simulation research in which Kennedy had participated at the University of North Carolina, integrated with evolutionary computation methods that Eberhart had been working with in the 1990s. The result was a problem-solving or optimization algorithm based on the principles of human social interaction. Individuals begin the program with random guesses at the problem solution. As the program runs, the \"particles\" share their successes with their topological neighbors; each particle is both teacher and learner. Over time, the population converges reliably on optimal vectors.\n\nA recent paper discusses the possible contribution of human female orgasm to the species' prosociality.\n\nKennedy has been an active combatant in the controversy over sex education in Montgomery County, Maryland, supporting the public schools' efforts to develop a comprehensive and inclusive program. He also worked to support a gender identity nondiscrimination law in Montgomery County that came under attack from conservatives.\n\nHe also worked as a professional musician for fifty years and currently plays in a rockabilly band called The Colliders, which released albums in 2011 and 2015. In 2018 Kennedy released a self-produced album, The Life of Mischief.\n\nKennedy worked in survey methods for the US government, and has conducted basic and applied research into social effects on cognition and attitude. He served as Director of the Office of Analysis and Research Services at the US International Trade Commission until his retirement in 2017. He has worked with particle swarms since 1994, with research publications in fields related and unrelated to swarms and surveys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3077956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3077956", "title": "Katrina cough", "text": "Katrina cough\n\nKatrina cough is a putative respiratory illness thought to be linked to exposure to mold and dust after the 2005 Hurricane Katrina in the United States. First described by doctors treating patients in the metro New Orleans area symptoms include cough, sinus headache, congestion, runny nose, and sore throat, and pink eye. This condition may make immunocompromised individuals more susceptible to bacterial bronchitis and sinusitis. Most patients are treated with antihistamines, nasal sprays, and/or antibiotics.\n\nThe Louisiana Office of Public Health conducted a case-control study of emergency department visits in New\nOrleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The OPH distributed a questionnaire to patients seeking treatment for cough, sinus drip, sneezing, wheezing, chest congestion, swollen red and puffy eye(s) and sore throat. According to the study, state epidemiologists found no increase in the rate of New Orleans-area respiratory illnesses. Although rates were found to be no different in comparison to state and country rates, the study showed that people with chronic sinus or respiratory symptoms were more affected by the hurricane. \n\nState epidemiologist Dr. Raoult Ratard disputed the existence of any disease cluster associated with the hurricane in 2006: \"There is no such thing as a single condition such as ‘Katrina Cough’ that would be different from the bacterial and viral respiratory conditions we would expect to see at that time of year...no such outbreak occurred because of Hurricane Katrina.\"\n\nStarting in 2008, Henry Glindmeyer, researcher and professor of pulmonary, critical care and environmental medicine at the Tulane University School of Medicine is conducting a five-year study to determine if workers in New Orleans face risks from inhalant exposure to minute particles such as mold, fungi or bacteria. The study is funded by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, an agency of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is providing $1.86 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49379441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49379441", "title": "Kit Kats in Japan", "text": "Kit Kats in Japan\n\nThere have been more than 300 limited-edition seasonal and regional flavors of Kit Kats produced in Japan since 2000. Nestlé, which operates the Kit Kat brand in Japan, reports that the brand overtook Meiji Chocolate as the top-selling confection in Japan from 2012 to 2014. The company's marketing campaign, which partnered with Japan Post to sell the bar in 20,000 post offices, won an award in 2010. That campaign encouraged associations of the product's name to the coincidental cognate , translated as \"You will surely win\", and could be mailed as a good luck charm for students ahead of university exams.\n\nKit Kats were introduced to Japan in 1973 when Rowntree's made an agreement with Fujiya. In 2014, they were the top-selling confection in the country. The Kit Kat brand took the number one sales position from Meiji chocolate in 2012, though Meiji remains the leading confection company in Japan overall.\n\nIn 2004, the green tea flavor was introduced. Since then, the product has been sold in more than 300 seasonal and regional flavors. The top-selling flavor of the candy bar in 2010 was soy sauce. Nestlé attributes the success of the flavor varieties to the tradition of \"omiyage\", in which regional specialties are brought back for family and co-workers from trips away. The company believes the limited-edition seasonal models create a \"scarcity and rarity of value\" for customers.\n\nThe business model was created to solve a problem the company found in Japanese convenience stores, which frequently rotated items and flavors off of shelves. By producing smaller runs of flavors, the company was better able to control its production costs. It was also economically viable in Japan because there is no initial product fee for listing new products in Japanese convenience stores.\n\nKit Kats in Japan are produced at Nestlé-owned factories in Himeji and Kasumigaura. The milk chocolate used for Kit Kats is made from whole-milk powder and Nestlé buys most of its cacao beans from West Africa.\n\nMarketing for Kit Kats in Japan is believed to have benefited from the coincidental false cognate with \"Kitto Katsu\", a phrase meaning \"You will surely win\" in Japanese. Some market research has shown that the brand is strongly correlated to good luck charms, particularly among students ahead of exams. Kit Kat's \"Lucky Charm\" advertising campaign in Japan won the Asian Brand Marketing Effectiveness Award in 2005.\n\nNestlé and the Japan Post launched a campaign in 2009, allowing people to write messages and mail the chocolate bars from 20,000 post offices. The special packages included a space to write a message of encouragement and affix a stamp. The promotional packages were sold out within a month. That campaign won the Media Grand Prix in 2010's Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival.\n\nThe Kit Kat Chocolatory stores, with recipes designed by chef Yasumasa Takagi, opened in 2014, and had expanded to seven branches by 2015. The company claims it has served more than 1 million customers and earned more than 2 billion yen. These shops sell high-end Kit Kat products such as raspberry-infused dark chocolate, orange-chocolate rum, and \"sakura\" green tea. A variety of Takagi's flavors have been introduced as seasonal products, including flavors such as \"plum, passion fruit and chilli, ginger and kinako soybean powder\". In 2016, Nestlé introduced a sake Kit Kat, which combines sake powder with white chocolate.\n\nSome varieties are restricted to a specific region associated with that particular bar. Others are limited-run varieties, with excess supply saved for year-end \"happy bag\" specials. In 2015, 500 single-finger bitter chocolate bars were sold with gold leaf wrapping for about $16 in high-end retail shops.\n\nNotable varieties include adzuki (red bean), beni imo (purple sweet potato), brown sugar syrup, matcha (green tea), and soy sauce.\n\nThe cafe shop Pronto has introduced croissants incorporating Kit Kats. Pizza chains Napoli no Kama and Strawberry Cones introduced dessert pizzas with bakeable Kit Kat toppings in March 2014.\n\nIn October 2018, Nestle opened a Kit Kat store at Namba Station, in the Chuo ward of Osaka, on Japan's Honshu island.\n"}
{"id": "47724155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47724155", "title": "Larry Dossey", "text": "Larry Dossey\n\nLarry Dossey (born 1940, Groesbeck, Texas) is a physician and author who propounds the importance for healing of prayer, spirituality, and other non-physical factors.\n\nAccording to his written biography on his personal website, Dossey graduated from University of Texas at Austin and received an M.D. from University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas (1967). Dossey served as a battalion surgeon in Vietnam, being decorated for valor, and served as Chief of Staff of Medical City Dallas Hospital (1982).\n\nDossey's writings and opinions have been controversial, having drawn both praise and criticism.\n\nSurgical oncologist David Gorski has written that Dossey utilizes straw man arguments, misrepresents and misunderstands medical research and \"the evidence base in favor of the woo that Dr. Dossey favors is pathetic in comparison to that supporting science-based medicine.\" In 2010 Dossey co-wrote a post in the Huffington Post called \"The Mythology Of Science-Based Medicine\" with Deepak Chopra and Rustum Roy, which Gorski characterized as \"an exercise that combines cherry-picking, logical fallacies, and whining, raising the last of these almost to an art form.\"\n\nGary P. Posner, a physician, has criticized Dossey for writing \"New Age psychobabble\". Posner in a review has stated that Dossey uncritically accepts psychic powers, parapsychology experiments and dubious claims such as voodoo or \"distant healing\" as genuine, whilst ignoring the literature that has refuted these subjects.\n\nPsychologist Robert A. Baker in a review for Dossey's \"Healing Words\" wrote that it is an entertaining book but \"We'd all be better served-Dossey, his patients, his readers, and the general public-if Dossey would take his head out of the clouds, plant his feet on the ground, and stop talking nonsense. Everyone knows that evil looks won’t kill you. We also know that sticks and stones will break your bones and a doctor’s words alone-no matter how kind or gentle-will never heal you.\"\n\nJohn Roberts in the \"British Medical Journal\" has described \"Healing Words\" as a religious book, useful to see how an argument could be made on how humans could utilize prayer to heal but some of the book was \"convoluted new-age jargon\".\n\nDossey's views and activities have frequently been reported in the media. For example, \"Business Insider\" quoted Dossey as having \"coined the term 'time-sickness' in 1982 to describe the belief that 'time is getting away, that there isn’t enough of it, and that you must pedal faster and faster to keep up.'\"\n\nThe \"Belfast Telegraph\" described Dossey as a \"distinguished American physician\" and a \"New York Times best-selling author\", while quoting his views on Lorna Byrne. The Minnesota \"Star Tribune\" reported that in 1993, Dossey had appeared on the Oprah Winfrey show, in an episode themed on the power of prayer, describing Dossey as \"a physician who advocates for spirituality in health care\".\n\nThe \"Jacket Copy\" blog of the \"Los Angeles Times\" interviewed Dossey and quoted him extensively when reviewing one of his books.\n\n"}
{"id": "11742936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11742936", "title": "List of political parties in the Caribbean by country", "text": "List of political parties in the Caribbean by country\n"}
{"id": "57393901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57393901", "title": "Mental health in Puerto Rico", "text": "Mental health in Puerto Rico\n\nPuerto Rico is and has been in economic crisis for a very long time due to the unpayable debt the island has. As of 2015 it is 72 billion dollars. The mounting debt has caused a lot of damage to the society in question. Cutbacks on a lot of necessities in the island have caused a health care problem. In the mental health care, the problem grows bigger as people find themselves unemployed or with lack of good jobs a lot of people have fled the island, causing a lack of professionals.\n\nWith a large amount of people migrating out of Puerto Rico to find better jobs an opportunity, professionals and students are lacking. This greatly impacts the mental healthcare of the public, with a lack of people and funds to pay professionals, leaving those who are in need, to suffer. This leaves the mental health care specialized areas severely limited.\n\nThe suicide rate in Puerto Rico is high with it being one of the top 15 causes of death in the island. A study shows that people with chronic illnesses are likely to think about, and attempt suicide. 25% of all suicides attempts are committed by people with chronic illness.\n\nSuicide ideation is high among people with depression and active depression symptoms. Socioeconomic issues were linked to increased suicide attempts or ideation by education, those without a college degree were more likely to think about or commit suicide.\n\nThe professionals in charge of treating mental illness lack training in suicide prevention is also a problem.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, 60% of children live in poverty.\n\nAccording to research and statistics, men tend to lash out in violence when unemployed. It threatens their masculinity and to re-ensure power and control, they would physically and mentally abuse their wife or significant others.\n\nThereafter, women and men both lack the potential and qualification to retain a job. The stress of experiencing poverty and the lack of financial support impacts executive functions. In the case of poverty, people are prone to experience depression, stress, addiction, low self-esteem and suicide. As mentioned above, suicide records in Puerto Rico reached a high 25% before the 20th century. In the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, researchers and ‘The Commission for the Prevention of Suicide’ reported an 16% increase. Approximately, a suicide per day since 2016.\n\nDaniel C. Marston, a cognitive and behavioral psychologist, conducted a study on the ‘Neurobehavioral and psychological effect on poverty’. Marston's findings distinguish the differences poverty has on adults, children, families and new moms. As stated, the psychological effects with poverty causes depression, anxiety and suicidal thoughts. Marston's study states that adults in poverty display higher levels of withdrawal symptoms, somatic complaints and pervasive negative thinking. Adults are impacted by feeling worry and anxious about what how handle the situation. In contrast, children are impacted by feeling a sense of helplessness and lack of control. Children are more likely to experience developmental delays, attention problem and disciplinary problems.\n\nIn addition, factors such as poverty, lack of resources, malnutrition and environmental factors significantly impacts a fetus physical development and executive functions. They are in higher risks to develop ADHD and autism. Newborn babies are troubled by lack of proper functions, such as communicating and socializing.\n\nOn the other hand, denial may not be the case for all Puerto Ricans since the economic crisis effects most poverty and minority individuals. Lack of public resources affects both the psychologist and patient. According to the welfare system, they will be responsible to cover some of the many visits, medication and tests. Leaving unemployed or lower class Puerto Ricans responsible to pay out of pocket for further services. To top it off, beginning 2018, Governor Ricardo Rosselló enforced work/employment requirement for welfare recipients on the island, presenting great challenges for Puerto Ricans, when more than 48% of the island's people live below the federally defined poverty line.\n\nThe first epidemiological study the status of mental health in Puerto Rico in 1985, shows that 165,497 people suffer from serious conditions in a population of 3,187,671. Many of the participants suffered from mental, emotional and behavioral conditions, while many remained silent. Quoting the research, facilities accepted and treated those with serious and disabling conditions and not to those who, despite also suffering from mental illnesses, are still considered “functional.” One out of every 10 Puerto Rican, since 1985, have suffered from anxiety and panic disorder, mood disorders and depression. Some experienced a combination of disorders.\n\nDaniel C. Marston concluded, “lack of access to appropriate care due to economic crisis, traditionally identified as in main reason why people in poverty do not receive services to help address neuro-behavioral problems.” Overall the economic crisis in Puerto Rico negatively affects all aspects of life but the mental healthcare system is an important aspect of this.\n"}
{"id": "1327943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1327943", "title": "Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare", "text": "Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare\n\nThe is a cabinet level ministry of the Japanese government. It is commonly known as in Japan. The ministry provides regulations on maximum residue limits for agricultural chemicals in foods, basic food and drug regulations, standards for foods, food additives, etc.\n\nIt was formed with the merger of the former Ministry of Health and Welfare or and the Ministry of Labour or .\n\nThe Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare is a member of the Cabinet and is chosen by the Prime Minister, typically from among members of the Diet.\n\nThe ministry contains the following sections: \n\nAfter a fatal bus accident on April 29, 2012, where a bus bound for Tokyo Disneyland crashed in Gunma Prefecture killing seven and injuring 39 others, the ministry launched an investigation into highway bus companies. Investigations were carried out at a total of 339 businesses. It was discovered that 95.6% (324 firms) were violating the Labor Standards Law and the Industrial Safety and Health Law. 219 businesses (64.6%) broke the law by having their drivers work behind the wheel more than the legal maximum of eight hours a day and 40 hours a week, or longer than what was agreed upon with their labor union. It also found 37 businesses, (10.9%), did not provide \"at least one day off a week,\" which the law obliges employers to give their drivers. Also, it found that 260 (76.6%) did not observe standards involving bus driver working hours, which prohibit them from working more than 16 hours a day in combined driving and office time. The ministry said it took \"corrective measures\" with those who violated the laws.\n\nPublished ministry employee and outspoken critic Moriyo Kimura states that the ministry's medical officers (\"ikei gikan\") are \"corrupt and self-serving.\" Kimura states that the officers, who number 250, have little experience and see no patients nor practice medicine after being hired by the ministry. Thus, says Kimura, Japan's public health policies lag behind other developed countries, by \"decades\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7790555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7790555", "title": "Molecular modification", "text": "Molecular modification\n\nMolecular modification is chemical alteration of a known and previously characterized lead compound for the purpose of enhancing its usefulness as a drug. This could mean enhancing its specificity for a particular body target site, increasing its potency, improving its rate and extent of absorption, modifying to advantage its time course in the body, reducing its toxicity, changing its physical or chemical properties (like solubility) to provide desired features.\n\nMolecular modification is used to enhance drug’s water solubility by incorporating water solubilizing groups in its structure. The discussion of the introduction of water solubilizing groups into the structure of a lead compound can be conveniently broken down into four general areas:\n\n\nThe incorporation of polar functional groups, such as the alcohol, amine, amide, carboxylic acid, sulfonic acid and phosphate groups, which either ionize or are capable of relatively strong intermolecular forces of attraction with water (hydrogen bonding), will usually result in analogues with an increased water solubility. Acidic and basic groups are particularly useful, since these groups can be used to form salts, which would give a wider range of dosage forms for the final product. However, the formation of zwitterions by the introduction of either an acid group into a structure containing a base or a base group into a structure containing an acid group can reduce water solubility. Introduction of weakly polar groups, such as carboxylic acid esters, aryl halides and alkyl halides, will not significantly improve water solubility and can result in enhanced lipid solubility.\n\nThe incorporation of acidic residues into a lead structure is less likely to change the type of activity, but it can result in the analogue exhibiting haemolytic properties. Furthermore, the introduction of an aromatic acid group usually results in anti-inflammatory activity, whilst carboxylic acids with an alpha functional group may act as chelating agents. Basic water solubilizing groups have a tendency to change the mode of action, since bases often interfere with neurotransmitters and biological processes involving amines. However, their incorporation does mean that the analogue can be formulated as a wide variety of acid salts. Non-ionizable groups do not have the disadvantages of acidic and basic groups.\n\nThe type of group selected also depends on the degree of permanency required. Groups that are bound directly to the carbon skeleton of the lead compound by less reactive C–C, C–O and C–N bonds are likely to be irreversibly attached to the lead structure.\n\nGroups that are linked to the lead by ester, amide, phosphate, sulfate and glycosidic bonds are more likely to be metabolized from the resulting analogue to reform the parent lead compound as the analogue is transferred from its point of administration to its site of action. Compounds with this type of solubilizing group are acting as prodrugs and so their activity is more likely to be the same as the parent lead compound. However, the rate of loss of the solubilizing group will depend on the nature of the transfer route, and this could affect the activity of the drug.\n\nIn order to preserve the type of activity exhibited by the lead compound, the water solubilizing group should be attached to a part of the structure that is not involved in the drug–receptor interaction. Consequently, the route used to introduce a new water solubilizing group and its position in the lead structure will depend on the relative reactivities of the pharmacophore and the rest of the molecule. The reagents used to introduce the new water solubilizing group should be chosen on the basis that they do not react with, or in close proximity to, the pharmacophore. This will reduce the possibility of the new group affecting the relevant drug–receptor interactions.\n\nWater solubilizing groups are best introduced at the beginning of a drug synthesis, although they may be introduced at any stage. Introduction at the beginning avoids the problem of a later introduction changing the type and/or nature of the drug–receptor interaction. A wide variety of routes may be used to introduce a water solubilizing group; the one selected will depend on the type of group being introduced and the chemical nature of the target structure. Many of these routes require the use of protecting agents to prevent unwanted reactions of either the water solubilizing group or the lead structure.\n\nExamples of water solubilizing structures and the routes used to introduce them into the lead structures. O-alkylation, N-alkylation, O-acylation and N-acylation reactions are used to introduce both acidic and basic groups. Acetylation methods use both the appropriate acid chloride and anhydride.\n\nExamples of water solubilizing structures and the routes used to introduce them into lead structures. Phosphate acid halides have been used to introduce phosphate groups into lead structures. Structures containing hydroxy groups have been introduced by reaction of the corresponding monochlorinated hydrin and the use of suitable epoxides amongst other methods. Sulphonic acid groups may be introduced by either direct sulfonation or the addition of bisulfite to reactive C = C bonds amongst other methods.\n"}
{"id": "41929074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41929074", "title": "National Council for Homeopathy", "text": "National Council for Homeopathy\n\nThe National Council for Homeopathy (NCH) is an autonomous body constituted to regulate the education and registration of homeopathic medical practitioners in Pakistan. Based in Rawalpindi, the council was formed in 1965, when homeopathic system of medicine was recognized by the Government of Pakistan under the Unani, Ayurvedic and Homeopathic Practitioners Act, 1965.\n\nThe council consisted of 21 members. Four members, being registered homeopaths, are nominated by the provincial government, one from each province eleven members are elected from among the registered and listed homeopaths, two members are elected from among themselves by the teachers of recognized homeopathy institutions and four members are nominated by the Federal Government, of whom one a scientist from the related field and one Deputy Secretary (Budget), Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation and Coordination.\n\nThe election of members are held after five years on provincial basis by direct balloting system. All registered homeopathic practitioners cast their votes for all seats of their related province. The council accredits and registers the four year Diploma in Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery (D.H.M.S.) and the five year Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery (B.H.M.S.) degree programs by different colleges and universities throughout Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11423322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11423322", "title": "National Doughnut Day", "text": "National Doughnut Day\n\nNational Doughnut Day, or National Donut Day — celebrated in the United States, is on the first Friday of June of each year, succeeding the Doughnut event created by The Salvation Army in Chicago in 1938 to honor those of their members who served doughnuts to soldiers during World War I. The holiday celebrates the doughnut. Many American doughnut stores offer free doughnuts on National Doughnut Day.\n\nNational Doughnut Day started in 1938 as a fund raiser for Chicago's The Salvation Army. Their goal was to help those in need during the Great Depression, and to honor The Salvation Army \"Lassies\" of World War I, who served doughnuts to soldiers.\n\nSoon after the US entrance into World War I in 1917, The Salvation Army sent a fact-finding mission to France. The mission concluded that the needs of US enlisted men could be met by canteens/social centers termed \"huts\" that could serve baked goods, provide writing supplies and stamps, and provide a clothes-mending service. Typically, six staff members per hut would include four female volunteers who could \"mother\" the boys. These huts were established by The Salvation Army in the United States near army training centers.\n\nAbout 250 Salvation Army volunteers went to France. Because of the difficulties of providing freshly baked goods from huts established in abandoned buildings near to the front lines, the two Salvation Army volunteers (Ensign Margaret Sheldon and Adjutant Helen Purviance) came up with the idea of providing doughnuts. These are reported to have been an \"instant hit\", and \"soon many soldiers were visiting The Salvation Army huts\". Margaret Sheldon wrote of one busy day: \"Today I made 22 pies, 300 doughnuts, 700 cups of coffee.\"\n\nSoon, the women who did this work became known by the servicemen as \"Doughnut Girls\".\n\nA misconception has taken hold that the provision of doughnuts to US enlisted men in World War I is the origin of the term \"doughboy\" to describe US infantry. But, the term was in use as early as the Mexican–American War of 1846–47.\n\nIn Chicago and other cities, National Doughnut Day is still a fundraiser for The Salvation Army. In 2017, the organization joined with Russ's Market, Super Saver, LaMar's Donuts, Hurts Donut and Krispy Kreme in Lincoln, Nebraska and Tempe, Arizona to raise funds on National Doughnut Day.\n\nIn the Second World War, Red Cross Volunteers also distributed doughnuts, and it became routine to refer to the Red Cross girls as Doughnut Dollies as well.\n\nThere are three other doughnut holidays, the origins of which are obscure. International Jelly-Filled Doughnut Day is widely recognized as June 8 (occasionally as June 9). National Cream-Filled Doughnut Day is celebrated on September 14 although there is also a National Boston Cream Pie Day observed October 23rd. Buy a Doughnut Day occurs on October 30.\n\nThe birthday of the United States Marine Corps was once referred to as National Donut Day, in a successful ruse by American prisoners of war at Son Tay prison camp to trick the North Vietnamese into giving out donuts in honor of the occasion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48925128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48925128", "title": "Nose-blowing", "text": "Nose-blowing\n\nNose-blowing is the act of expelling nasal mucus by exhaling forcefully through the nose, usually into a facial tissue or handkerchief. In some cultures, blowing one's nose in public may be considered a breach of etiquette.\n\nNose-blowing may be used to alleviate nasal congestion or rhinorrhea (runny nose). A 2000 study showed that nose-blowing produces a high degree of pressure in the nasal cavities and may worsen a cold by propelling nasal mucus into the paranasal sinuses.\n\n"}
{"id": "53917585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53917585", "title": "Paxherbals", "text": "Paxherbals\n\nPaxherbals also known as Pax Herbal Clinic and Research Laboratories is a Nigerian alternative medicine product manufacturing company founded by Adodo Anselm in 1996 at Ewu Monastery.\n\nThe company adopted a science-based approach to its Traditional African medicine brand of alternative medicine by establishing three sets of science laboratories for its operations. This was with a view to diffusing the age-long bias associated with African herbal practices in Nigeria and in most parts of Africa which associated herbal medicine with witchcraft, sorcery, ritualism, paganism, and all sorts of fetish practices.\n\nAs of 2017, Paxherbals has a presence in 26 states out Nigeria's 36 states with a network of 1,000 alternative medicine product distributors. Thirty-three health products are certified by Nigerian National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC).\n\nIn 1997, the founder of Paxherbals (Adodo Anselm) started a small herbal garden in Ewu Monastery where he grew medicinal plants. The first herbal preparations from the herbal garden were used in making herbal remedies for common ailments like malaria and cough. A loan of about thirty thousand Nairas (NGN 40,000 or approx. $200) was used to build a three-room clinic where patients from nearby villages were attended to by Anselm and his first employee Gbogbo John. The three-room clinic soon came to be called Pax Herbal Center.\nBy May 2006, Paxherbals have built a set of laboratories which was commissioned by Chief Lucky Igbinedion, Governor of Edo State (1999-2007). The laboratories include a quality control laboratory and microbiology laboratory. By 2008, Pax Herbal Clinic and Research Laboratories had become the biggest, best-equipped, best organized, and most modern herbal research center in Africa.\n\nPoor regulation and insufficient research has always been the bane of herbal medicine practice in Africa. In order to change this narrative, Paxherbals created a research team which is a mixture of exogenous (pharmacists, botanists, pharmacologists, microbiologists, laboratory scientists and plant scientists) and the indigenous (traditional birth attendants, bone setters, local taxonomists, village historians, and chemists). The research team is headed by professor Okogun Joseph, who is the head of Scientific Research and Development.\n\nPaxherbals have formed a partnership with the Institute of African Studies (IAS) with the view of changing the way herbal medicine is learned and taught in Nigeria. With the university's curriculum committee approving a new curriculum, the university is open to admitting students for masters and Ph.D studies in Traditional African Medicine.\n\nA major challenge to research effort at Paxherbals has been Nigerian government's regulations which requires that clinical trials have to be done in partnership with the government and so far, this have not proved possible until 2016 when some collaborative efforts was recorded.\n\n"}
{"id": "16756345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16756345", "title": "Peroxide value", "text": "Peroxide value\n\nDetection of peroxide gives the initial evidence of rancidity in unsaturated fats and oils. Other methods are available, but peroxide value is the most widely used. It gives a measure of the extent to which an oil sample has undergone primary oxidation, extent of secondary oxidation may be determined from p-anisidine test.\n\nThe double bonds found in fats and oils play a role in autoxidation. Oils with a high degree of unsaturation are most susceptible to autoxidation. The best test for autoxidation (oxidative rancidity) is determination of the peroxide value. Peroxides are intermediates in the autoxidation reaction.\n\nAutoxidation is a free radical reaction involving oxygen that leads to deterioration of fats and oils which form off-flavours and off-odours. Peroxide value, concentration of peroxide in an oil or fat, is useful for assessing the extent to which spoilage has advanced.\n\nThe peroxide value is defined as the amount of peroxide oxygen per 1 kilogram of fat or oil. Traditionally this was expressed in units of milliequivalents, although if we are using SI units then the appropriate option would be in millimoles per kilogram (N.B. 1 milliequivalents = 0.5 millimole; because 1 mEq of O2 =1 mmol/2=0.5 mmol of O2, where 2 is valence). Note also that the unit of milliequivalent has been commonly abbreviated as mequiv or even as meq.\n\nThe peroxide value is determined by measuring the amount of iodine which is formed by the reaction of peroxides (formed in fat or oil) with iodide ion.\n\n2 I + HO + HOOH -> HOH + 2OH + I\n\nNote that the base produced in this reaction is taken up by the excess of acetic acid present. The iodine liberated is titrated with sodium thiosulphate.\n\n2SO + I -> SO + 2 I\n\nThe acidic conditions (excess acetic acid) prevents formation of hypoiodite (analogous to hypochlorite), which would interfere with the reaction.\n\nThe indicator used in this reaction is a starch solution where amylose forms a blue to black solution with iodine and is colourless where iodine is titrated.\n\nA precaution that should be observed is to add the starch indicator solution only near the end point (the end point is near when fading of the yellowish iodine colour occurs) because at high iodine concentration starch is decomposed to products whose indicator properties are not entirely reversible.\n\nPeroxide values of fresh oils are less than 10 milliequivalents/kg; when the peroxide value is between 30* and 40 milliequivalents/kg, a rancid taste is noticeable.\n"}
{"id": "54903991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54903991", "title": "Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Yojana Kendra", "text": "Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Yojana Kendra\n\nPradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi PariYojana Kendra(PMBJPK) is a campaign launched by the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Govt. Of India, to provide quality medicines at affordable prices to the masses through special kendras known as Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra. Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana Kendra (PMBJPK) have been set up to provide generic drugs, which are available at lesser prices but are equivalent in quality and efficacy as expensive branded drugs. BPPI (Bureau of Pharma Public Sector Undertakings of India) has been established under the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Govt. of India, with the support of all the CPSUs for co-coordinating procurement, supply and marketing of generic drugs through Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra.\n\n“Jan Aushadhi” is the novel project launched by Government of India in the year 2014 for the noble cause – Quality Medicines at Affordable Prices for All. The campaign was undertaken through sale of generic medicines through exclusive outlets namely “Jan Aushadhi Medical Store”in various districts of the country. In September 2015, the 'Jan Aushadhi Scheme' was revamped as 'Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Yojana' (PMJAY). In November 2016, to give further impetus to the scheme, it was again renamed as \"Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana\" (PMBJP).\n\nYear-wise Phasing of Expenditure (Rs. in crores)\nThe Jan Aushadhi initiative will make available quality drugs at affordable prices through dedicated stores selling generic medicines which are available at lesser prices but are equivalent in quality and efficacy as expensive branded drugs. Some comparative prices are: Prices in Rs. as of (Sep 2013)\nJan Aushadhi Store (JAS) can be opened by State Governments or any organization / reputed NGOs / Trusts / Private hospitals / Charitable institutions / Doctors / Unemployed pharmacist/ individual entrepreneurs are eligible to apply for new Jan Aushadhi stores. The applicants shall have to employ one B Pharma / D Pharma degree holder as Pharmacist in their proposed store.\n\nThe following financial support is available:\n\nNGOs/agencies/individuals establishing Jan Aushadhi stores in Government hospital premises where space is provided free of cost by Government to operating agency:\n\nBPPI will provide one time financial assistance up to Rs. 2.50 lakh as per details given below\nJan Aushadhi stores established anywhere else by private entrepreneurs / institutions / NGOs / Trusts / Charitable organizations which are linked with BPPI headquarters through internet.\n\nThe concept of Jan Aushadhi Kendra, which was launched at government hospitals to provide patients with medicines at affordable rates, has miserably failed to serve its purpose at Civil Hospital, Ludhiana. Only 20 per cent patients at Civil Hospital are able to benefit from this facility. Most of the stores, set up under the Jan Aushadhi Scheme to provide non-branded generic medicines to all, haven’t stocked common medicines for months for lack of supply. These include medicines for seasonal infections, gas, cough, cold, etc. Officials said the shortage of medicines is due to logistical issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "57254307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57254307", "title": "Prestressed concrete cylinder pipe", "text": "Prestressed concrete cylinder pipe\n\nPrestressed concrete cylinder pipe (PCCP) is a common variety of large-diameter concrete pressure pipe used for transporting water and wastewater. PCCP is typical manufactured according to the American Water Works Association (AWWA) standard C304.\n"}
{"id": "40749890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40749890", "title": "Psoriatic Arthritis Quality of Life", "text": "Psoriatic Arthritis Quality of Life\n\nThe Psoriatic Arthritis Quality of Life (PsAQoL) measure is a disease specific patient-reported outcome measure which measures the effect that psoriatic arthritis has on a patient’s quality of life.\n\nIt is a self-administered, 20-item questionnaire that takes about three minutes to complete. The answers are restricted to true or false.\n\nThe PsAQoL was first published in 2004 by Galen Research. The development of the measure was a joint effort between Galen Research, the University of Leeds and St. Vincent’s University Hospital in Dublin. The study was funded by the Arthritis Research Campaign in the UK.\n\nQualitative interviews were conducted with 48 patients, after which a 51-item questionnaire was created. A follow up survey with 94 patients was then conducted which reduced the items to 35. An additional 286 patients were surveyed and Rasch analysis was performed, which finalized the PsAQoL to 20 items. A high score on the PsAQoL indicates a lower quality of life.\n\nThe Psoriatic Arthritis Quality of Life measure has been translated into 30 languages, other than UK English. These languages include Dutch and Swedish.\nThe PsAQoL has also been utilized in clinical research studies in order to determine whether a medication or treatment is effective in treating psoriatic arthritis. If the scores on the PsAQoL change after treatment, this means that the given treatment has had an effect on quality of life. The PsAQoL has been used to evaluate infliximab and adalimumab.\n"}
{"id": "16942392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16942392", "title": "Response-rate ratio", "text": "Response-rate ratio\n\nResponse-rate ratio is a measure of efficacy of the therapy in clinical trials. It is defined as the proportion of improved patients in the\ntreatment group, divided by the proportion of improved patients in the control group. The same term has been used in marketing.\n"}
{"id": "34724937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34724937", "title": "Sahastralinga Tank", "text": "Sahastralinga Tank\n\nSahasralinga Tank or Sahasralinga Talav is a medieval artificial water tank in Patan, Gujarat, India. It was commissioned during Chaulukya (Solanki) rule, but now it is empty and in a ruined state. It is a Monument of National Importance protected by Archaeological Survey of India (N-GJ-161).\n\nJasma Odan, a wife of Rooda who belonged to the Od community of tank diggers, cursed Chaulukya ruler, Siddhraj Jaisinh when he proposed her marriage who was captivated by her beauty. Due to the curse, the tank was not filled with water. To repeal the curse, a human sacrifice was needed. Mayo or Mahya, from lower caste Dhed community, committed self-sacrifice which resulted in water filling the tank. Jaysinh, out of gratitude, allowed his caste to stay with higher castes in town.\n\nSahasralinga Tank are among the many artificial tanks built in different parts of Gujarat under the patronages of Jayasimha Siddharaja (1092-1142 AD).\n\nBairam Khan, Akbar's tutor, while passing through Patan on his way to Mecca, was said to have been murdered after he returned from boating in this tank in 1561.\n\nThe architecture of this tank integrated the great sense of water management and sanctity of water in Hindu religion. The tank used to receive water from a canal of the Saraswati River and had spread of about 5 km with good stone masonry embankments. There were thousand Shiva Shrines on the edge of the tank. Some remains of the same are even visible today.\n\nOne of the largest and the grandest in size is the Sahasralinga Tank. It must have been a reservoir of immense size and derived its name from the numerous little temples containing linga placed on the banks which were dismantled during the late medieval period, when a large octagonal rouza was raised on a part of its ruins. The great embankment surrounding it is of solid brick work and was faced with stone masonry forming flights of steps to the water's edge. Near the middle of the eastern embankment are the remains of the old Siva temple, comprising the basements of the pavilions together with a colonnade of forty eight pillars; it was in good condition till 16th century A.D.\nTowards the western end there is a rudra kupa in which water from the river Saraswati was collected and then allowed to pass into the inlet channel of the Sahasralinga Tank. This cistern is about forty meters in diameter.\n\n\nSahasra is the correct suffix that means \"a thousand\", not SahasTra. However, it is invariably misspelled as the latter. Notice how the same suffix is spelled when it occurs in family names (example: Sahasrabuddhe) \"without\" a T. The confusion arises because the hindi letter \"Sa\" (स) merges with \"ra\" (र) and looks like \"tra\".\n"}
{"id": "29918586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29918586", "title": "Sorokdo", "text": "Sorokdo\n\nSorokdo (Sorok island) is an island in Goheung, Jeolla, South Korea. \"Sorok\" means \"small deer\", which the island's coastline, viewed from above, is supposed to resemble.\n\nIt takes five minutes to reach Sorokdo from Nokdong-hang (Nokdong harbor) in Goheung. As of 3 March 2009, Sorok-Daegyo (bridge) is open for traffic.\n\nSorokdo is the site of a leper colony with a history of patient abuse including slave labor, forced sterilizations, and starvation, under both Japanese and Korean administration.\n\n월간 GEO, 한센인들의 마음의 고향-소록도 기사.\n"}
{"id": "42010769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42010769", "title": "StatsDirect", "text": "StatsDirect\n\nStatsDirect is a statistical software package designed for biomedical, public health, and general health science uses. The second generation of the software was reviewed in general medical and public health journals.\n\nStatsDirect's interface is menu driven and has editors for spreadsheet-like data and reports. The function library includes common medical statistical methdods that can be extended by users via an XML-based description that can embed calls to native StatsDirect numerical libraries, R scripts, or algorithms in any of the .NET languages (such as C#, VB.Net, J#, or F#).\n\nCommon statistical misconceptions are challenged by the interface. For example, users can perform a chi-square test on a two-by-two table, but they are asked whether the data are from a cohort (perspective) or case-control (retrospective) study before delivering the result. Both processes produce a chi-square test result but more emphasis is put on the appropriate statistic for the inference, which is the odds ratio for retrospective studies and relative risk for prospective studies.\n\nProfessor Iain Buchan of the University of Manchester wrote a doctoral thesis on the foundational work and is credited as creator of the software. Buchan said he wished to address the problem of clinicians lacking the statistical knowledge to select and interpret statistical functions correctly, and often misusing software written by and for statisticians as a result.\n\nThe software debuted in 1989 as Arcus, then Arcus ProStat in 1993, both written for the DOS platform. Arcus Quickstat for Windows followed in 1999. In 2000, an expanded version, StatsDirect, was released for Microsoft Windows. In 2013, the third generation of this software was released, written in C# for the .NET platform.\n\nStatsDirect reports embed the metadata necessary to replay calculations, which may be needed if the original data is ever updated. The reproducible report technology follows the research object approach for replaying in \"eLabs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9299124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9299124", "title": "Teruki Miyamoto", "text": "Teruki Miyamoto\n\nMiyamoto was born in Hiroshima on December 26, 1940. After graduating from high school, he joined Yawata Steel (later \"Nippon Steel\") in 1959. The club won 1964 Emperor's Cup. In 1965, Yawata Steel joined new league Japan Soccer League. In 1967, he was elected Japanese Footballer of the Year awards. He retired in 1976. He played 138 games and scored 68 goals in the league. He was elected Best Eleven for 6 years in a row (1966-1971).\n\nIn June 1961, Miyamoto was elected Japan national team for 1962 World Cup qualification. At this qualification, on June 11, he debuted against South Korea. He was elected Japan for 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo and 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City. He played all matches at both Olympics and Japan won the bronze medal 1968 Olympics. He also played at 1962, 1966 and 1970 Asian Games. At 1972 Summer Olympics qualification in 1971, Japan's failure to qualify for 1972 Summer Olympics. This qualification was his last game for Japan. He played 58 games and scored 19 goals for Japan until 1971.\n\nIn 1976, when Miyamoto played for Nippon Steel, he became a playing manager. He managed until 1979.\n\nOn February 2, 2000, Miyamoto died of heart failure in Kitakyushu at the age of 59. In 2006, he was elected Japan Football Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26555908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26555908", "title": "Vermin", "text": "Vermin\n\nVermin (colloquially varmint or varmit) are pests or nuisance animals, that spread diseases or destroy crops or livestock. Since the term is defined in relation to human activities, which species are included vary from area to area and person to person.\n\nThe term derives from the Latin \"vermis\" (worm), and was originally used for the worm-like larvae of certain insects, many of which infest foodstuffs. The term \"varmint\" (and \"vermint\") has been found in sources from c. 1530–1540s.\n\n\"Varmint\" or \"varmit\" is an American-English colloquialism, particularly common to the American East and South-east within the nearby bordering states of the vast Appalachia region. The term describes farm pests which raid farms as opposed to those that infest farms, referring mainly to predators such as feral dogs, foxes, weasels, and coyotes, sometimes even wolves or rarely bears, but also, to a lesser degree, herbivores and burrowing animals that directly damage crops and land.\n\nAlthough this version of the word \"vermin\" is not a prevalent term in Standard Written English, it is a common descriptor for certain kinds of weapons and pest control situations in the Appalachian and nearby states and the American west and south-west which have adopted terms such as \"varmint rifle\" and \"varmint hunting\".\n\nThe term \"vermin\" is used to refer to a wide scope of organisms, including rodents, cockroaches, termites, and bed bugs.\n\nHistorically, in the 16th and 17th century, the expression also became used as a derogatory term associated with groups of persons typically plagued by vermin, namely beggars and vagabonds, and more generally the poor.\n\nDisease-carrying rodents and insects are the usual case, but the term is also applied to larger animals—especially small predators—typically because they consume resources which humans consider theirs, such as livestock and crops. Birds which eat cereal crops and fruit are an example. The American crow (\"Corvus brachyrhynchos\"), is widely hated by farmers because of crop depredation. Pigeons, which have been widely introduced in urban environments, are also sometimes considered vermin. Some varieties of snakes and arachnids may also be referred to as vermin. Vermin is also used as a term for vile people, an enemy of a state or nation, or certain ethnic groups that are considered subhuman.\n\nAny species can develop into vermin if introduced into a region where there is favorable living conditions and few natural predators. In such cases, they are seen as an invasive species and humans often choose to fill the role of the predator to limit the danger to the environment. Examples of vermin include goats on the Galápagos Islands, rabbits in Australia or cats on Prince Edward Islands. Rats, mice, and cockroaches are common urban and suburban vermin.\n\nHunting laws and definitions vary by province in Canada.\n\nUnder Tudor \"vermin laws\", many creatures were seen as competitors for the produce of the countryside and bounties were paid by the parish for their carcasses. The declaration of the red kite as vermin led to its decline to the point of extirpation in the UK by the 20th century. However, the red kite is being reintroduced by the trans-location of breeding pairs from other parts of Europe.\n\nVermin types can also include ferrets, stoats, sables, rats, and occasionally foxes.\n\n"}
{"id": "5090829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5090829", "title": "Vienna Psychoanalytic Society", "text": "Vienna Psychoanalytic Society\n\nThe Vienna Psychoanalytic Society (, WPV), formerly known as the Wednesday Psychological Society, is the oldest psychoanalysis society in the world. It commenced meetings in Sigmund Freud's apartment in 1902. By 1908 the group adopted its new name and was the international psychoanalytic authority of the time.\n\nThe first president was Alfred Adler, who resigned in 1911.\n\nProminent members:\n\nIn November 1902, Sigmund Freud wrote to Alfred Adler, \"A small circle of colleagues and supporters afford me the great pleasure of coming to my house in the evening (8:30 PM after dinner) to discuss interesting topics in psychology and neuropathology. . . .Would you be so kind as to join us?\" The group included Wilhelm Stekel, Max Kahane and Rudolf Reitler, soon joined by Adler. Stekel, a Viennese physician who had been in analysis with Freud, provided the initial impetus for the meetings. Freud made sure that each participant would contribute to the discussion by drawing names from an urn and asking each to address the chosen topic.\n\nNew members were invited only with the consent of the entire group, and only a few dropped out. By 1906, the group, then called the Wednesday Psychological Society, included 17 doctors, analysts and laymen. Otto Rank was hired that year to collect dues and keep written records of the increasingly complex discussions. Each meeting included the presentation of a paper or case history with discussion and a final summary by Freud. Some of the members presented detailed histories of their own psychological and sexual development.\n\nAs the meetings grew to include more of the original contributors to psychoanalysis, analytic frankness sometimes became an excuse for personal attacks. In 1908 Max Graf, whose five-year-old son had been an early topic of discussion as Freud's famous \"Little Hans\" case, deplored the disappearance of congeniality. There were still discussions from which important insights could be gleaned, but many became acrimonious. Many members wanted to abolish the tradition that new ideas discussed at the meetings were credited to the group as a whole, not the original contributor of the idea. Freud proposed that each member should have a choice, to have his comments regarded as his own intellectual property, or to put them in the public domain.\n\nIn an attempt to resolve some of the disputes, Freud officially dissolved the informal group and formed a new group under the name Vienna Psychoanalytic Society. On the suggestion of Alfred Adler, the election of new members was based on secret ballot rather than Freud's invitation. Although the structure of the group became more democratic, the discussions lost some of their original eclectic character as the identity of the group developed. The psychosexual theories of Freud became the primary focus of the participants.\n\n"}
{"id": "9925103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9925103", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Bolivia", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Bolivia\n\nBolivia's drinking water and sanitation coverage has greatly improved since 1990 due to a considerable increase in sectoral investment. However, the country continues to suffer from what happens to be the continent's lowest coverage levels and from low quality of services. Political and institutional instability have contributed to the weakening of the sector's institutions at the national and local levels. Two concessions to foreign private companies in two of the three largest cities—Cochabamba and La Paz/El Alto—were prematurely ended in 2000 and 2006 respectively. The country's second largest city, Santa Cruz de la Sierra, relatively successfully manages its own water and sanitation system by way of cooperatives. The government of Evo Morales intends to strengthen citizen participation within the sector. Increasing coverage requires a substantial increase of investment financing.\n\nAccording to the government the main problems in the sector are low access to sanitation throughout the country; low access to water in rural areas; insufficient and ineffective investments; a low visibility of community service providers; a lack of respect of indigenous customs; \"technical and institutional difficulties in the design and implementation of projects\"; a lack of capacity to operate and maintain infrastructure; an institutional framework that is \"not consistent with the political change in the country\"; \"ambiguities in the social participation schemes\"; a reduction in the quantity and quality of water due to climate change; pollution and a lack of integrated water resources management; and the lack of policies and programs for the reuse of wastewater.\n\nIn 2015, in Bolivia 90% of the total population had access to \"improved\" water, or 97% and 76%, in urban and rural areas, respectively. Regarding sanitation, 50% of the total population had access to \"improved\" sanitation, or 61% and 28%, in urban and rural areas, respectively.\n\nThe quality of service in the majority of the country’s water and sanitation systems is low. In 2000, according to the WHO, in only 26% of the urban systems water was disinfected and only 25% of the collected wastewater was treated.\n\nIn the last decades, frequent changes of government resulted in several restructurings of the institutional framework to face the problems of the sector. Consequently, it seems difficult to draw up a long-term continuous and sustainable sector policy.\n\nIn 1999, during the second mandate of Hugo Banzer (1997–2001), the sectoral institutional framework law (Law 2029) established the legal framework for the sector that is in force today. It allows for private sector participation and formalized SISAB as a regulator (SISAB replaced the former Superintendencia de Agua created in 1997). During that period two major concessions for water and sanitation were granted to the private sector: One in La Paz/El Alto to the Aguas de Illimani S.A. (AISA), a subsidiary of the French Suez (formerly Lyonnaise des Eaux) in 1997; and a second one in Cochabamba to Aguas de Tunari, a subsidiary of the multinationals Biwater and Bechtel in 1999.\n\nFollowing two popular uprisings against water privatization, the first in Cochabamba in April 2000 and the second in La Paz/El Alto in January 2005, which centered on natural gas concessions, the two water concessions were terminated. In the latter case, Aguas de Illimani was replaced by the public utility Empresa Pública Social de Agua y Saneamiento (EPSAS), which came under severe criticism in 2008 due to water shortages, accounting errors, tariff increases and poor disaster preparedness. Consequently, representatives of the La Paz neighborhood association announced to create their own service provider.\n\nThe Bolivian Norm NB 688, an important technical norm for the design and construction of sewage and sanitation, was revised in 2001. The revised norm permits the installation of more efficient and of lower cost condominial sewerage systems and helps to increase sanitation coverage with limited funds.\n\nFurthermore, the government defined the National Plan for Basic Sanitation Services 2001-2010 to increase the water and sanitation access to improve the quality of service and promote their sustainability. \n\nIn 2006 the MAS won the elections and Evo Morales became president of the Republic. \"Water cannot be a private business because it converts it into a merchandise and thus violates human rights. Water is a resource and should be a public service,\" emphasized president-elect Morales. The new president created the Water Ministry (see below) and nominated a leader of the protests in El Alto against Aguas de Illimani as the country's first water minister. He nominated Luis Sánchez-Gómez Cuquerella, who was formerly an activist of the struggle against the privatization in Cochabamba, as vice-minister of Basic Services. In May 2006 the government dissolved the regulatory agency SISAB, saying that it failed to properly regulate tariffs and that it lacked accountability.\n\nThe government of Evo Morales considers passing a new water and sanitation services law called “Water for Life”. According to vice-minister Rene Orellana, under this law the legal concept of the concession would be eliminated. A preferential electricity tariff would be introduced for EPSAs and community water rights would be strengthened.\n\nIn 2008 the government published a National Basic Sanitation Plan that analyzes the main problems in the sector, puts forward a vision, sets targets (90% access to water and 80% access to sanitation by 2015) and defines the investments needed to achieve the targets (US$ 283 million per year). These figures include investments for the reuse of wastewater and to adapt to climate change.\n\nIn November 2016, the worst drought in 25 years led to water rationing in La Paz and El Alto. Various causes were cited for the shortage, which saw the capital's main reservoir level drop to less than 1% capacity. Just two weeks into the crisis, Bolivia's Vice Ministry of Civil Defense estimated that the drought had affected 125,000 families and threatened 290,000 hectares (716,605 acres) of agricultural land and 360,000 heads of cattle. President Evo Morales called on local governments to devote funds and workers to drill wells and transport water to cities in vehicles, with the support of the armed forces, from nearby bodies of water. \n\nA national state of emergency was declared after 172 of the country's 339 municipalities declared their own emergencies related to the drought.\n\nThe sector’s institutional framework is the Law #2029 of 1999, or Water and Sanitation Services Law, revised in 2000 as Law #2066. As mentioned above in “Recent Developments”, the Morales government is contemplating a new water and sanitation services law, named “Water for Life”.\n\nPolicies are set by the government; within the government the Vice-Ministry of Basic Sanitation in the Ministry of Environment and Water and is in charge of setting water policies. Another Vice-Ministry in the same ministry is in charge of water resources management and irrigation. Before 2006 these sectors were under different ministries, notably the Ministry of Housing and Basic Services and the Ministry of the Environment.\n\nIn urban areas, municipal governments (either directly or through decentralized companies) are in charge of service provision as well as the development of plans and programs for service expansion in areas under their jurisdiction, in coordination with departmental governments. \n\nIn some cities, cooperatives (utilities owned by their consumers) are in charge of water supply and sanitation service provision. SAGUAPAC in Santa Cruz is the largest consumer cooperative utility in the world. According to the World Bank, its performance indicators place it among the best water utilities in Latin America.\n\nThe country has 9 departments and 327 municipalities. It also has 14 water and sanitation providers, which are called Empresas Prestadores de Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado (EPSA) in the largest cities. In 1982, the EPSAs have formed the National Association of Water and Sewage Companies (ANESAPA). \n\nIn rural areas Juntas or Water Committees are in charge of operating and maintaining the systems. In more dispersed areas of the country it is often the households themselves who take the initiative to obtain access to water and sanitation services, an approach called self-supply of water and sanitation.\n\nIn the 1980s investment in the sector was below US$20 million per year. Starting in 1990, this average increased to approximately US$40 million. In 1999, when US$69.4 million were invested the annual investment reached its peak. After 2000 investments dropped back again (see table below)\n\nBetween 1992 and 2000, 58% of investments were externally financed (mainly from the IDB, World Bank, Japanese JICA and the German KfW), 17% by municipal governments, 8% by the private sector and 17% by departmental governments.\n\nIn 2004 the government of President Carlos Mesa defined a new Sectoral Financial Policy. The EPSA would receive credits and transfers for investments for participating in a Plan for Institutional Modernization (PMI) and establishing an Integral Development Plan (PID). Resources are assigned to each EPSA with priority to those with larger poverty levels and lower levels of coverage, according to a mathematic formula called Asignador Financiero Sectoral (AFS). The subsidies are higher and the conditions of loans less onerous to the EPSA with lower coverage and higher levels of poverty. The National Fund for Regional Development (FNDR) is the government’s instrument for the targeting of loans destined for water and sanitation investments.\n\nThe Foundation for the Support to Sustainable Basic Sanitation (FUNDASAB) channels technical assistance to services to promote their sustainability.\n\n\n\n\nThe water supply issue in Bolivia was the main theme of the James Bond movie \"Quantum of Solace\". The story was based on the Cochabamba Water Revolt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21378125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21378125", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in the State of Palestine", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in the State of Palestine\n\nThe water resources of Palestine are fully controlled by Israel and the division of groundwater is subject to provisions in the Oslo II Accord.\n\nGenerally, the water quality is considerably worse in the Gaza strip when compared to the West Bank. About a third to half of the delivered water in the Palestinian territories is lost in the distribution network. The lasting blockade of the Gaza Strip and the Gaza War have caused severe damage to the infrastructure in the Gaza Strip.\nConcerning wastewater, the existing treatment plants do not have the capacity to treat all of the produced wastewater, causing severe water pollution. The development of the sector highly depends on external financing.\n\nSince the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the issue of the development of the area's water resources, has been a critical issue in regional conflict and negotiations, initially involving Syria, Jordan and Israel. After the Six-Day War, when Israel occupied the Palestinian territories, water use and sanitation have been closely linked to developments in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. The water and land resources in the West Bank in particular are considered to constitute the major obstacle to the resolution of conflict in the area. Palestinians claim they have a legal right to ownership, or claim to use of three water sources in the area:(a)the groundwater reservoir of the Mountain Aquifer, the Gaza Strip Coastal Aquifer and the Jordan River to the amount of 700 MCM/Y, over 50% of natural water resources between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River.\n\nIn 1995, the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) was established by a presidential decree. One year later, its functions, objectives and responsibilities were defined through a by-law, giving the PWA the mandate to manage water resources and execute the water policy.\n\nThe 1995 Oslo II Accord allows the Palestinians in the West Bank the use of up to 118 million cubic meters (mcm) water per year. 80 mcm was supposed to come from to drill new wells. However, the PWA was able to drill new wells for only 30 mcm at the expense of the existing springs and wells. In the Oslo II Accord, the Israelis are allotted four times the Palestinian portion or 80% of the joint-aquifer resources. However, 94% (340 mcm) of the Western Aquifer was allotted to the Israelis for use within Israel. The allowed quantities have not been adapted after the end of the supposed five years interim period. The parties established the Joint Water Committee to carry out the provisions of the concerning article 40 of Annex III.\n\nAccording to a World Bank report, Israel extracted 80% more water from the West Bank than agreed in the Oslo Accord, while Palestinian abstractions were within the agreed range. Contrary to expectations under Oslo II, the water actually extracted by Palestinians in the West Bank has dropped between 1999 and 2007. Due to the Israeli over-extraction, aquifer levels are near \"″the point where irreversible damage is done to the aquifer.″\" Israeli wells in the West Bank have dried up local Palestinian wells and springs.\n\nThe Upper Jordan River flows south into Sea of Galilee, which provides the largest freshwater storage capacity along the Jordan River. Lake Tiberias drains into the Lower Jordan River, which winds further south through the Jordan Valley to its terminus in the Dead Sea. The Palestinians are denied any access to this water. About a quarter of the 420 million m Israel pumps from the Sea of Galilee goes to the local communities in Israel and to Jordan; the rest is diverted to Israel through the National Water Carrier (NWC) before it can reach the West Bank. Virtually all water from the Yarmouk River, north of the West Bank is diverted by Israel, Syria and Jordan. The water of the Tirza Stream, the largest stream in the central Jordan Valley, fed by rainwater, is diverted by Israel to the Tirza Reservoir and used by settlements in the area for irrigation of crops and for raising fish.\n\nIn Gaza, the only source of surface water has been the Wadi Gaza. There are claims that Israel diverts part of its water for agricultural purposes within Israel prior to its arrival to Gaza.\n\nIn the West Bank, the main groundwater resource is the \"Mountain Aquifer\", which consists of three aquifers:\n\n\nAccording to Hiniker, at an average sustainable rate, the amount of renewable shared freshwater available throughout the entire Jordan Valley is roughly 2700 mcm per year, which is composed of 1400 million cubic metres of groundwater and 1300 million cubic metres of surface water. However, only a fraction of this can be used by Palestinians in the West Bank. Israel has denied Palestinians access to the entire Lower Jordan River since 1967. After the start of Israel’s military occupation in 1967, Israel declared the West Bank land adjacent to the Jordan River a closed military zone, to which only Israeli settler farmers have been permitted access.\n\nIn 1982, the West Bank water infrastructure controlled by the Israeli army was handed over to the Israeli national water company Mekorot. As of 2009, Mekorot operates some 42 wells in the West Bank, mainly in the Jordan Valley region, which mostly supply the Israeli settlements. The amount of water Mekorot can sell to the Palestinians is subject to approval of the Israeli authorities.\n\nDrilling of wells into the mountain aquifer by the Palestinians is restricted. Most of its water thus flows underground towards the slopes of the hills and into Israeli territory. According to different estimates, between 80 and 85% of groundwater in the West Bank is used either by Israeli settlers or flows into Israel.\n\nThe Coastal Aquifer is the only source of water in the Gaza strip. It runs beneath the coast of Israel, with Gaza downstream at the end of the basin. With the water flows underground mainly east-west, however, Palestinian extractions from the aquifer have no effect on the Israeli side. Israel, on the contrary, has installed a cordon of numerous deep wells along the Gaza border and in this way extracts much of the groundwater before it can reach Gaza. Israel sells a limited part of the water to the Palestinians in Gaza. While Israel transports water from the north of its territory to the south, the Palestinians are not allowed to move water from the West Bank to Gaza. This is a reason why this aquifer is heavily over-exploited, resulting in seawater intrusion. The aquifer is polluted by salt as well as nitrate from wastewater infiltration and fertilizers. Only 5-10% of the aquifer yields drinking water quality. By 2000, the water from the Coastal Aquifer in the Gaza region was considered no longer drinkable due to high salinity from the sea water intrusion and high nitrate pollution from agricultural activity.\n\nPursuant Oslo II (Annex III, Article 40.7), Israel committed itself to sell 5 mcm/year to the Gaza Strip. In 2015 Israel had doubled the amount to 10 mcm/year. Gaza also imports water, or produces drinkwater by means of desalination plants.\n\nIn Gaza, desalinated brackish groundwater has become an important source of drinking water. Over 20,000 consumers in over 50% of the Gaza households have installed domestic ‘reverse osmosis’ (RO) units to desalinate water for drinking purposes. The water quality is high, though the water lacks basic minerals. As of January 2014, there were 18 neighborhood desalination plants in the Gaza strip, providing safe drinking water for free to 95,000 people who come to fill their canisters at the plants. 13 of these plants are operated by UNICEF.\n\nIn 2009, approximately 100 industrial desalination plants were operational. Due to the Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip, the import of spare parts – essential to operate the desalination plants of industry, communities and households – as well as necessary chemicals, is problematic.\n\nAs of 2007, there was one seawater desalination plant in Deir al-Balah in the Gaza Strip, built in 1997–99 with funding by the Austrian government. It has a capacity of per day and it is owned and operated by the Coastal Municipalities Water Utility. At least initially, the operating costs were subsidized by the Austrian government. The desalinated water is distributed to 13 water kiosks.\n\nDesalination of seawater is expected to become more important in the future through a long-planned regional desalination plant that would provide desalinated water using the piped water network throughout the entire Gaza strip. For over 20 years, a major desalination plant for Gaza has been discussed. The Palestinian Water Authority has approved a $500 million facility. Israel supports it and has quietly begun to offer Palestinians desalination training. In 2012 the French government committed a 10 million-euro grant for the plant. Arab countries, coordinated by the Islamic Development Bank, committed to provide half of the necessary funds, matching an expected European financial commitment. The European Investment Bank provides technical assistance.\n\nAnother major problem is that desalination is very energy-intensive, while the import of fuel to produce the necessary electricity is restricted by Israel and Egypt. Furthermore, revenues from drinking water tariffs are insufficient to cover the operating costs of the envisaged plant at the current tariff level.\n\nIn the West Bank, collection of rainwater is a very limited resource in addition to tanker truck water for Palestinians who lack connection to the water grid, notably in rural areas. However, Israeli authorities control even the collection of small quantities of rainwater. According to the 2009 report \"Troubled Waters\" by Amnesty International, some 180,000–200,000 Palestinians living in rural communities have no access to running water and the Israeli army often prevents them from even collecting rainwater. The Israeli army frequently destroys small rainwater harvesting cisterns built by Palestinian communities who have no access to running water, or prevents their construction.\n\nIn view of the limited availability of water resources, water reuse is seen as an important source. In the West Bank, Israel collects wastewater in two facilities in the Jordan Valley. Not only wastewater from Israelis in Jerusalem and settlements is collected, but also from Palestinians. All recycled water is used for irrigation in settlements in the Jordan Valley and northern Dead Sea area.\n\nAs of 2007, the estimated average \"per capita supply\" in the West Bank had increased to about 98 \"liter per capita per day\" (98 lpcd). The estimated \"household use\" was 50 lpcd, with many households consuming as little as 20 lpcd, even if connected to the network. Due to the fragmentation of the West Bank, movement of water from water-rich areas to Palestinian communities with water shortage is inhibited. Therefore, there are huge differences in water use in the eastern and southern West Bank. While the daily consumption in the Jericho district was 161 liters in 2009, in Jericho city even 225 liters, it was less than 100 liters in other areas. In the central Jordan Valley it was about 60 liters. Inhabitants of a-Nu’ima, east of Jericho, had only 24 liters. Residents of villages that are cut off from water supply have to buy water from watertanker operators. All of the eastern West Bank, except the Israeli settlements and Jericho are designated as a closed military area or as an area that for other reasons has access restrictions for Palestinians. In 2012, 90% of the small Palestinian communities living there had less than 60 lpcd. Over half of them, mostly Bedouin or herding communities, often cut off from their traditional wells, had even less than 30 litres per person per day.\n\nAs of 2009, the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) or municipalities provided about 70 lpcd in Gaza, but could not reach all households.\n\nFor 2012, the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS) provided the following figures (domestic use):\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> MCM=million cubic meters per year\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> lpcd=liter per capita per day\n\nIn 2012, about 44% of the groundwater was for use in agriculture. Industrial use was only 3% in 2005.\n\nThe household \"use\" is less than the \"supply\", which includes industrial, commercial and public consumption as well as losses. In the Gaza strip, for example, the estimated average \"per capita supply\" in 2005 was 152 lpcd, but due to high network losses, the actual water use was only 60% of it, which would be about 91 liter. The minimum quantity \"for domestic use\", recommended by the WHO is 100 lpcd.\n\nIn 2008, the settlements in the Jordan Valley and northern Dead Sea area were allocated 44.8 million m (MCM) of water, 97.5 percent of which (43.7 MCM) were for agricultural use. Seventy percent of it was provided by Mekorot. According to Israeli figures, the household use of settlers in the Jordan Valley was 487 liters per capita per day (lpcd) and in the northern Dead Sea area even 727 lpcd. That is three to four times the use of 165 liters in Israel. As the settlers in the eastern West Bank use nearly all the water use for agriculture, they in fact export water from the Palestinian Territories.\n\nIn 2009, settlers in Pnei Hever, Hebron District, consumed 194 liters per day; those in Efrat, east of Bethlehem, 217 liters.\n\nAccording to the Palestinian Water Authority, the average Israeli consumption of water is 300 liter per person per day, which is more than 4 times that of the Palestinian use of 72 liters per day. Some Palestinian village communities live on even less water than the average Palestinian consumption, in some cases no more than 20 liters per person per day. According to the World Bank, water extractions per capita for West Bank Palestinians are about one quarter of those for Israelis, and have declined over the last decade. In 1999, Palestinians in the West Bank used only 190 lpcd from the West Bank resources, the settlers 870 lpcd, and the Israelis used even 1,000 lpcd. Israeli settlers in the West Bank thus used about 4.5 times the amount of water available to the Palestinians.\n\nIn 2008, the settlers in the Niran settlement, north of Jericho, used more than 5 times the amount of the nearby Palestinian village al-A’uja. The Argaman settlement, in the central Jordan Valley, used more than 5 times the amount of the adjacent Palestinian village a-Zubeidat. The household use in the Ro’i settlement, in the northern Jordan Valley, was per head 21 times that of the adjacent Bedouin community al-Hadidya, which is not connected to the regular water supply.\n\nIn 2009, the settlers in Efrat consumed, with 217 liters, three times the amount of the per capita use of 71 liters in the nearby Palestinian Bethlehem Governorate.\n\nWhile many Palestinians living in rural communities have no access to running water, Israeli settlers who export their products have irrigated farms, lush gardens and swimming pools. The 450,000 settlers use as much or even more water than all 2.3 million Palestinians together. Many Palestinians have to buy water from Israel, of often dubious quality, delivered with tanker trucks at very high prices. Water tankers are forced to take long detours to avoid Israeli military checkpoints and roads which are out of bounds to Palestinians, resulting in steep increases in the price of water.\n\nAccording to the Joint Monitoring Program (JMP) of the World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF, about 90% of the Palestinians in the Territories had access to an improved water source.\n\nA survey carried out by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS) found that the number of households in the Palestinian territories connected to the water network was 91.8% in 2011. In the West Bank, 89.4% of the households were connected while the connection share in the Gaza Strip was 96.3%.\n\nAccording to a 2004 study by Karen Assaf, there are low service levels especially in small villages and refugee camps. The gap between urban and rural areas concerning water supply house connections may be due to the fact that available water resources are not accessible for the Palestinian actors in many cases. In 42% of the localities, water supply\ngot uninterrupted; 19% received it at least partially. Furthermore, about 40% of all served localities suffer from water shortages.\n\nThe Euro-Mediterranean Water Information System (EMWIS) states that continuity in the Palestinian territories is 62.8%\n\nDue to unreliable water delivery, virtually every Palestinian house has at least one, most several, water cisterns to store water. In the West Bank, water cisterns are often targeted by the IDF or Israeli settlers and destroyed under the pretext of illegality.\n\nData of a survey carried out in 2011 revealed that 47.2% of the households in the Palestinian Territories consider the water quality as good. The share is significantly higher in the West Bank (70.9%) than in the Gaza Strip (5.3%). Compared to an earlier study, the results indicate that the percentage of households which consider the water quality as good decreased from 67.5% in 1999.\n\nIn 2012, the losses of water in the network were estimated some 28% in the West Bank and even half of the supplied amount in Gaza. In the West Bank, construction and maintenance of water and sewage infrastructure are problematic. The Palestinian areas are enclaves in the Israeli-controlled Area C. Therefore, all projects are subject to approval of the Joint Water Committee and the Israeli army. In Gaza, the infrastructure is subject to periodic large-scale destruction by Israeli attacks, such as in the 2004 Raid on Beit Hanoun, or the 2008/2009 Operation Cast Lead. The groundwater in Gaza is highly contaminated by leaked sewage.\n\nThe high water loss rates are ascribed to illegal connections, worn out pipe systems in the networks, and utility dysfunction. Especially in the Gaza Strip, high losses are caused by illegal connections. Illegal use of water is often the result of water shortages and insufficient supply. Furthermore, the conditions of water supply utilities suffer from grave deficiencies causing high leakage rates and a weak water pulse in the system, ascribed to both institutional weakness and the restrictions posed by the occupation on the development of the water and sanitation sectors, including the Gaza blockade.\n\nFollowing the 2008–2009 Israel–Gaza conflict, the World Bank reported severe damages to the water and sanitation infrastructure in the Gaza Strip. Almost all sewage and water pumps were out of operation due to a lack of electricity and fuel. Spare parts and other maintenance supplies were in urgent need to be replenished. This situation resulted in a serious shortage of water and sewage overflows in urban areas, posing a threat to public health.\n\nThe Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip impedes the provision of spare parts and thus contributes to exacerbate the problem. Several aid agencies and the top United Nations humanitarian official in the Palestinian territories therefore demanded the immediate opening of crossings. According to the United Nations, about 60% of the population in the Gaza Strip did not have access to continuous water supply in 2009.\n\nAbout 90% of the Palestinians in the Territories had access to improved sanitation in 2008. Cesspits were used by 39% of households, while access to the sewer network increased to 55% in 2011, up from 39% in 1999.\n\nIn the Gaza strip, from the 110,000 m³ of wastewater per day which is produced in the Gaza Strip, 68,000 m³ was treated, according to a study from 2001. 20% of the treated wastewater was reused. The World Bank reported in 2009 that the three existing wastewater treatment plants work discontinuously. Damaged sewage infrastructure can often not be repaired due to the ongoing Israeli blockade. It leads to delays in repairs and a lack of electricity and fuel which would be necessary to operate the wastewater treatment facilities. The United Nations estimate that per day 50,000 to 80,000 cubic meters of untreated and partially treated wastewater are discharged into the Mediterranean Sea since January 2008, threatening the environment in the region.\n\nIn the West Bank, only 13,000 out of 85,000 m³ of wastewater were treated in five municipal wastewater treatment plants in Hebron, Jenin, Ramallah, Tulkarem and Al-Bireh. The Al Bireh plant was constructed in 2000 with funding by the German aid agency KfW. According to the World Bank report, the other four plants perform poorly concerning efficiency and quality.\n\nThe current sector legislation was established after the 1995 Oslo Accords, with a by-law establishing the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) in 1996, a 1998 Water Resources Management Strategy and the 2002 water law. The Water Law of 2002 clarifies the responsibilities of the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) and establishes a National Water Council (NWC) with the task to set national water policies. It also establishes \"national water utilities\".\n\nGeneral water sector policies are set by the Palestinian cabinet of ministries and the National Water Council (NWC). The council has the authority to suspend or dismantle the services of the board of directors of the regional water and wastewater services providers. The members of the council include the main Palestinian ministries. The Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) acts as regulatory authority, responsible for the legislation, monitoring and human resources development in the sector. The PWA is also in charge of water resources management. It has the mandate to carry out regular inspections and to keep a register of all water related data and information. The authority shares responsibility for irrigation with the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and for environmental protection with the Environment Quality Authority (EQA).\n\nAs part of the 1995 Interim Agreement, a Joint Water Committee (JWC) has been established between Israel and the Palestinian territories. The JWC was expected to implement the regulations of article 40 of the agreement which concern water and sanitation. The committee is composed of an equal number of participants by the two parties and all decisions need consensus, which means that each side has a veto. The JWC is not independent from Israel and the PA. Instead, decisions can be passed to a higher political level. Jägerskog reports several delays concerning the implementation of Palestinian project proposals within the committee, partly due to missing Palestinian funding, time-consuming approval procedures, hydrological and political reasons.\n\nThe Water Law No. 3 provided the legal basis for the establishment of \"national water utilities\". The PWA's goal is to establish four regional utilities, one in Gaza and three in the West Bank (North, Center and South). However, in reality as of 2011 only the regional utility for Gaza has been established.\n\nWest Bank. Water services in the West Bank continue to be provided by municipalities, two multi-municipal utilities and village councils. The largest and oldest multi-municipal utility in the West Bank is the Jerusalem Water Undertaking (JWU) in the Ramallah and Al-Bireh area. JWU, founded in 1966 when the West Bank was still part of Jordan, serves the two cities as well as 10 smaller towns, more than 43 villages and 5 refugee camps. A second much smaller multi-municipal utility is the Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (WSSA) that serves Bethlehem and the neighboring towns Beit Jala and Beit Sahour. In other cities such as Tulkarem, Qalqilya, Nablus, Jenin, Jericho and Hebron as well as in small towns, municipalities provide water and - if existing - sewer services. Both utilities and municipalities depend to a varying extent on bulk water supply by the Israeli water company Mekorot, which delivers about 80% of the water used by JWU. In rural areas, water is provided by Village Council water departments. In the North-Eastern Jenin area a Joint Service Council (JSC) formed by six villages provides water.\n\nGaza strip In all 25 municipalities in the Gaza strip, water provision is the responsibility of the Coastal Municipalities Water Utility (CMWU). However, the utility is still in the process of being set up and exercise its legal tasks. The intended procedure is that the municipalities receive technical assistance by the CMWU and gradually transfer their staff and assets to it. According to the World Bank, this model led to some improvements like faster repair of leakage and economies of scale. However, the plan is far from being fully implemented. The model experienced serious problems which are mainly caused by the unstable political conditions in the Gaza strip since 2008, including differences between municipalities governed by Hamas and Fatah, so that some municipalities refused to transfer their assets and staff to CMWU.\n\nNon-governmental organisations (NGOs) are very active in the field of water and wastewater treatment and reuse. One NGO network is the Palestinian Environmental NGOs Network (PENGON) that was initiated after the 2000 al-Aqsa Intifada. It has more than 20 members, including NGOs, universities and research centers.\n\nTwo management contracts were awarded for Gaza in 1996 and for the Bethlehem area in 1999. In 2002, soon after the outbreak of the Second Intifada, the Bethlehem contract was terminated and the Gaza contract expired.\n\nIn Gaza, a four-year management contract was awarded to a joint venture of Lyonnaise des Eaux (now Suez) and Khatib and Alami in 1996. The contract was entirely funded by a US$25 million World Bank credit. According to a 1998 World Bank paper, water quality improved since the contract became active. Furthermore, water losses fell and water consumption and revenues rose. However, actual responsibility for service provision remained with municipalities. When the contract ended in 2000, it was renewed twice for one year until 2002. The World Bank reports that from 1996 to 2002, 16,000 illegal connections have been identified and more than 1,900 km of pipes have been observed for leakage. Moreover, 22,000 connections have been replaced, more than 20 km of pipes have been repaired and more than 30,000 water meters have been replaced. The amount of non-revenue water (NRW) decreased to about 30%. After the end of the contract, the Coastal Municipal Water Utility (CMWU) has been established to manage water and sanitation in the Gaza strip.\n\nAnother managemenent contract was awarded in 1999 covering water supply of about 600,000 people in the governorates of Bethlehem and Hebron, with a focus on the former one. The contract was awarded to a joint venture of the French Vivendi and the Lebanese-Palestinian company Khatib and Alami. Among other things, it included the improvement of infrastructure and billing procedures. The contract was financed with a credit of US$21 million, while the European Investment Bank (EIB) provided US$35.7 million. Mainly due to the continuing hostilities and the premature cancellation of EIB support, the World Bank rates the total outcome of the project as unsatisfactory. According to the World Bank, non-revenue water was reduced from about 50% to 24% in Hebron and only 10% in Bethlehem in 2004. Illegal connections were eliminated in Hebron and more than halved in Bethlehem.\n\nAbout half (44%) of the produced water is non-revenue water (NRW), water which is not billed due to leakage or water theft. The share varies widely from 25% in Ramallah to 65% in Jericho. In the Gaza Strip, NRW is estimated to be about 45%, out of which 40% is caused by physical losses and 5% by unregistered connections and meter losses. For comparison leakage of water at Israeli municipal pipes amount to about 10% of water usage.\n\nA water-pricing policy is under preparation. Currently, increasing block tariffs are applied in the Palestinian territories. There is no price differentiation according to the purpose (residential, commercial, industrial). The average cost of water supply is $22 per month ($25 in the West Bank and $10 in Gaza). Karen Assaf reported an average tariff of US$1.20 (5 NIS) per m³ in 2004. In areas where piped water is not available, water is purchased from water tankers for prices five to six times higher than for piped water. The long term objective to recover water production costs, or at least operation and maintenance costs, is still not reached.\n\nThe following table gives an overview of the distribution of households in the Palestinian Territories by the cost of monthly consumed water in 2003.\n\nBill collection rates average 50% in the West Bank and only 20% in Gaza.\n\nThe PWA issues periodic reports including information about projects and donor contributions. In the West Bank, the total investment cost of water projects from 1996 to 2002 amounted to about US$500 million, out of which 150 million were already spent on completed projects. The costs of ongoing projects were US$300 million, and the remaining US$50 million were committed to future projects. Out of the total cost of US$500 million, 200 million were invested in the water supply sector and 130 million in the wastewater sector. The remaining financial resources were spent in water conservation (80m), institutional and capacity building (30m), storm water, water resources and irrigation systems.\n\nAt the same time, the total investment costs of water projects in the Gaza Strip were about US$230 million, out of which most was spent on ongoing projects (US$170 million), while the remaining 60 million were implemented costs. About 90% of these investments were financed by grants and 10% by loans from the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the World Bank. US$100 million were invested in the water sector and 40 million in the wastewater sector.\nIt is estimated that a future investment of about US$1.1 billion for the West Bank and US$0.8 billion is needed for the planning period from 2003 to 2015.\n\nAbout 15 bilateral and multilateral donor agencies support the Palestinian water sector. In 2006, the PWA complained that coordination between PWA and donors was \"still not successful\" and that some donors and NGOs were \"bypassing\" the PWA. Donor coordination mechanisms in the sector include Emergency Water, Sanitation and Hygiene group (EWASH) regrouping UN agencies and NGOs as well as Emergency Water Operations Center (EWOC) led by USAID. Both were established to coordinate the reconstruction after the 2002 Israeli incursions into the West Bank.\n\nThe European Investment Bank (EIB) provided loan funding for refurbishing water reservoirs and was expected to fund the construction of the south regional wastewater treatment plant and a section of the North-South municipal water carrier in Gaza. Within the framework of the Facility for Euro-Mediterranean Investment and Partnership (FEMIP), the EIB financed operations with more than 137 million Euro in the West Bank and Gaza between 1995 and 2010. 10% of the funds were allocated to the water and environment sector.\n\nThe French development agency, Agence française de développement (AFD), supports several projects in the Palestinian territories. For example, AFD finances the connection of densely populated areas of Rafah to the sewage system, the construction of water pipes and reservoirs in Hebron, and the construction of a water distribution network in six villages in the district of Jenin.\n\nGerman development cooperation has been engaged in the water and sanitation sector in the Palestinian Territories since 1994. It consists of financial cooperation through KfW and technical cooperation through GIZ, both working on behalf of the German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development.\n\nKfW is engaged in Nablus, Tulkarem, Salfit, Ramallah / Al-Bireh, Jenin and Gaza City. The water supply activities focus on the reduction of non-revenue water so that the available water resources can be used more efficiently. One successful example of water loss reduction is the first phase of the KfW-supported program in Nablus: the frequency of supply for 8,000 inhabitants in the Rafidia neighbourhood was increased from every 4 days to every 2–3 days. This was achieved by reducing distribution losses from 40% to currently 30%. Sanitation activities include the construction of sewer networks and wastewater treatment. The town of Al Bireh had the only functioning wastewater treatment plant in the West Bank in 2009. The plant, which was funded by KfW, was commissioned in 2000 and operates in a satisfactory way despite the challenging environment of the West Bank. The construction of wastewater treatment plants in Gaza City, Western Nablus, Salfeet and the Tulkarem region, however, was substantially delayed as of 2009. Until 2008 new financial cooperation commitments were granted in the form of projects that identified specific investments at an early stage. This approach changed in 2008 with the approval of a new KfW-supported water and sanitation program for the West Bank and Gaza. This program is open for proposals from small and medium-sized towns if they comply with certain selection criteria. The program’s main focus is on water loss reduction.\n\nOutcomes of technical cooperation include improved performance for the Jerusalem Water Undertaking, the utility serving Ramallah, as a result of capacity building and training. Employees of the municipality Al-Bireh were trained in operating the town's wastewater treatment plant. Wells have been drilled or rehabilitated in the Nablus and Ramallah area, supplying 120,000 people with drinking water. GTZ also supported the creation of the National Water Council in 2006. Furthermore, at least 6,000 schoolchildren have been taught water conservation measures.\n\nThe Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) has participated in the development of feasibility and design studies for the north regional wastewater treatment plant and associated sewerage collection systems in Gaza.\n\nUSAID is a leading development agency within the sector in the Palestinian territories. Their work includes the repair and rehabilitation of small scale water and sanitation facilities, rehabilitation of water and sewage networks as well as replacement of water pumps. In addition, USAID helps communities without access to piped water through water supply via tankers. In rural areas, the agency provides water collection cisterns to poor families. USAID helps to connect households to water and to install rainwater drainage pipes.\n\nOn the official web page, USAID announces to provide more than 60 km of water pipes in oder to supply ten additional villages in the southern Nablus area with potable water. By 2009, USAID has improved water supply for more than 19,500 households while about 30,000 households gained improved sanitation and connections to sewage networks.\n\nAn example of USAID's work in the Palestinian territories is the Emergency Water and Sanitation and Other Infrastructure Program. Between 2008 and 2013 USAID finances the second phase of the program. It is supposed to address the urgent need of adequate water and sanitation systems e.g. by providing emergency relief and rehabilitation of existing systems.\nAnother program funded by USAID from 2008-2013 is the Infrastructure Needs Program. It does not only focus on water, but also includes the financing of other infrastructure that is critical for economic growth. With regard to water, several achievements have been accomplished in 2010. For example, a water transmission line, water distribution systems, reservoirs, and steel water pipes have been built.\n\nUnder the Second Gaza Water and Sanitation Project which is active from 2005 to 2010, the World Bank provides US$20 million. One objective of the project is to develop a sustainable institutional structure of the water and sanitation sector. This is planned to be achieved through supporting the establishment of a Coastal Water Utility which is owned by the local governments and through increased private sector participation. In addition, the project seeks to strengthen the regulatory and institutional capacity of the PWA. The second objective of the project is the improvement of the water and sanitation services through rehabilitation, upgrade and expansion of the existing facilities.\n\nIn January 2008, another US$5 million for the project have been approved by the bank. The additional funding will contribute to finance the institutional strengthening of the Coastal Municipal Water Utility, which has suffered from a very difficult security situation. Moreover, operation and maintenance costs of the water and sanitation facilities in the Gaza Strip for one additional year are covered. One aim is to reduce non-revenue water from 45% to 35%, accompanied by an increase of revenues and customer satisfaction. The funding also provides for water meters, chemicals for water treatment and disinfection and the rehabilitation of water production wells.\n\nIn addition, the bank provides US$12 million for the North Gaza Emergency Sewage Treatment (NGEST) Project, which seeks to mitigate the health and environmental risks which arise from the Beit Lahia Waterwater Treatment Plant. Effluents of the treatment plant are discharged into a lake, putting the surrounding communities at risk. The objective of the project is to provide a long-term solution to wastewater treatment in the Gaza northern governorate. In order to achieve this, the lake is drained. New infiltration basins are built in another location, where the effluent of the lake will be transferred. A new wastewater treatment plant with improved quality standards will be built, covering the whole northern governorate.\n\nIn 2011, the World Bank approved three water and sanitation projects in the West Bank and Gaza. The Water Sector Capacity Building Project is supposed to support the Palestinian Water Authority by providing e.g. advisory support, technical assistance and staff training. The objective is to strengthen the PWA's capacity of monitoring, planning and regulating water sector development in the Palestinian territories.\nFurthermore, the Water Supply and Sanitation Improvements for West Bethlehem Villages Project aims at the preparation of a feasibility study and a project concept for wastewater management and reuse in selected rural communities. Other components shall strengthen the capacity of the Water and Wastewater Department and increase the reliability of an existing water supply system.\nFinally, the bank approved the third additional financing of the Second Gaza Emergency Water Project. Besides the capacity improvement of both the PWA and the coastal municipalities' water utility, the project shall ensure the management, operation and delivery of wastewater and water services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37537790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37537790", "title": "Xenophagy", "text": "Xenophagy\n\nXenophagy (Greek \"strange\" + \"eating\") and allotrophy (Greek \"other\" + \"nutrient\") are changes in established patterns of biological consumption, by individuals or groups.\n\n• In entomology, xenophagy is a categorical change in diet, such as an herbivore becoming carnivorous, a predator becoming necrophagous, a coprophage becoming necrophagous or carnivorous, or a reversal of such changes. Allotrophy is a less extreme change in diet, such as in the case of the seven-spot ladybird, which can diversify a diet of aphids to sometimes include pollen. There are several apparent cases of allotrophy in Israeli \"Longitarsus\" beetles.\n\n• In microbiology, xenophagy is the process by which a cell directs autophagy against pathogens, as reflected in the study of antiviral defenses. Cellular xenophagy is an innate component of immune responses, though the general importance of xenophagy is not yet certain.\n\n• In ecology, allotrophy is also reflected in eutrophication, being a change in nutrient source such as an aquatic ecosystem that starts receiving new nutrients from drainage of the surrounding land.\n"}
