{"id": "36874696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36874696", "title": "Association Pesinet", "text": "Association Pesinet\n\nAssociation Pesinet is a French NGO, founded in late 2007, that leverages ICT and mobile agents to improve detection and early treatment of childhood diseases in Mali. The service combines frequent monitoring of simple health indicators with an affordable insurance system and education on preventive health practices.\n\nPesinet was founded in 2007 and launched activities in Mali in 2009, after a formal agreement was signed between Pesinet and Mali’s Health Ministry for the implementation and evaluation of the pilot site.\n\nThe first program was launched in January 2010 during an official ceremony attended by the Health Minister. It covers the neighbourhoods of Bamako Coura and Bamako Coura Bolibana.\n\nIn 2011, and at the request of the two community health centers in Dravela and Ouolofobougou, two neighboring districts of Bamako Coura, Pesinet began to work on the extension of its activities in these two areas. The launch of the two new programs was made official during a ceremony that took place in October 2011, during which the partnership agreement with the community health centers was officially signed.\n\nThe mission of Association Pesinet is to sustainably reduce infant and child mortality by facilitating access of populations to existing healthcare systems. In partnership with local health centers, Pesinet designs and deploys home-based health monitoring services for children and mothers.\n\nPesinet’s action is motivated by the following facts:\n\n\nThe founding principles of the organization are:\n\n\nThe service is based on the voluntary enrollment of families and costs 500 FCFA/child per month, or less than 1 euro. For this price, families are entitled to regular home visit by the health agents as well as free doctor consultations and 50% reduction on medications. Pesinet agents visit families several times each month to examine children, collect key data (weight, cough, fever, diarrhea…) and enter it in an application on a mobile phone. The data collected by the agents is transmitted in real time to a database accessible by the doctors at the closest health center. Doctors at the health center read that data and summon children at risk through the responsible health agent. A survey of families enrolled in the program found that 94% of subscribers were satisfied with the service and 97% of them found it affordable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52573293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52573293", "title": "Barry S. Anton", "text": "Barry S. Anton\n\nBarry S. Anton is an American psychologist. He served as the president of the American Psychological Association (APA) in 2015.\n\nAnton earned a Ph.D. from Colorado State University. He is a distinguished professor emeritus at the University of Puget Sound and is in the private practice of clinical psychology in Tacoma, Washington. He spent more than 30 years the University of Puget Sound. He was the co-author of a textbook, \"Introduction to Clinical Psychology\".\n\nIn 1997, Anton received the Karl F. Heiser APA Presidential Award for Advocacy. After serving on several APA task forces, Anton became president-elect in 2014 and APA president in 2015. Anton said that a focus of his presidency would be future opportunities for early-career psychologists.\n"}
{"id": "1093094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1093094", "title": "Bradfield Scheme", "text": "Bradfield Scheme\n\nThe Bradfield Scheme, a proposed Australian water diversion scheme, is an inland irrigation project that was designed to irrigate and drought-proof much of the western Queensland interior, as well as large areas of South Australia. It was devised by Dr John Bradfield (1867–1943), a Queensland born civil engineer, who also designed the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Brisbane's Story Bridge. Some people considered the plan to be lacking in scientific justification, excessively expensive, and overly optimistic.\n\nThe scheme that Bradfield proposed in 1938 required large pipes, tunnels, pumps and dams. It involved diverting water from the upper reaches of the Tully, Herbert and Burdekin rivers. These Queensland rivers are fed by the monsoon, and flow east to the Coral Sea. It was proposed that the water would enter the Thomson River on the western side of the Great Dividing Range and eventually flow south west to Lake Eyre. An alternative plan was to divert water into the Flinders River.\n\nThere have been no attempts to implement the scheme, although the plan is raised from time to time.\n\nThe water was expected to provide irrigation for more than of agricultural land in Queensland. The scheme would reduce the massive natural erosion problems in areas of Central Queensland. The scheme had the ability to generate of power and the potential to double that amount. Controlling and reducing the flow of northern rivers into the ocean may benefit the Great Barrier Reef as fresh water causes coral bleaching, and the excess nutrients in the rivers from coastal farming and development support algal growth that can harm the reef.\n\nIt is claimed that extra water and vegetation in the interior may then produce changes to the climate of Australia, however various studies have concluded that this is unlikely. This may increase the rainfall in areas of southern Queensland and northern New South Wales. Extra rainfall may drought-proof Eastern Queensland, and thereby improve river inflows to the Murray-Darling River system. It is claimed that a full Lake Eyre would moderate the air temperature in the region by the absorption of sunlight by the water instead of heat radiation from dry land into the air. No evidence to support the theory that an inland sea would increase rainfall has ever been produced, nor have any of the other claims been supported.\n\nIt would provide large areas suitable for the production of algae fuel, a type of biofuel. The catchment area of the Herbert River holds a population of approximately 18,000, 75% of whom dwell in the lower flood plain area. Diverting some water from this river would reduce the risk of flood.\n\nBradfield's scheme and others have been criticised because they are not practical. This scheme has been criticised because of the high capital and ongoing running costs which would make the project uneconomic.\n\nElevation measurements were taken with a barometer, leading to inaccuracies in land heights and mistakes in the proposal. In most cases no flow record of the rivers were available to Bradfield. He used an empirical formula which assumed 33% of the water flow would be lost to evaporation and seepage. The estimated water available for the scheme was .\n\nThe extreme evaporation rate in the interior is another negative determinant. No clear evidence has been provided that the amount of water supplied will exceed the evaporation rate. The reduction in river discharge to the Great Barrier Reef Lagoon may diminish coastal fisheries by reducing the supply of terrestrial organic matter to the coastal and estuarine environment.\n\nIn 1947, W.H.R. Nimmo, conducted a critical review of the scheme. He proved that Bradfield's estimates of the amount of water available from the easterly flowing rivers were about two and half times greater than it actually was. The error was attributed to the methodology used to calculate flow estimates was based on German rivers where the average temperature was much less than in northern Australia.\n\nThe Bradfield Scheme has not received broad political support from any of the major Australian parties in recent times however it has been pushed by individual politicians such as Bob Katter who advocated the plan whilst he was a member of the Nationals for the state seat of Flinders during the 1980s and continues to support it as an independent, representing the federal seat of Kennedy. In February 2007, the then Queensland Premier Peter Beattie urged the Federal Government to look at a modern version, saying it is better to find more water than to cut back on current supplies.\n\nIn contrast to this, the scheme is often amongst the policies of a number of minor parties and independent candidates. A modified scheme was also strongly supported by Selwyn Johnston, an independent candidate for the Senate representing Queensland at the 2007 federal election. Adrian Watts, a Citizens Electoral Council candidate for the federal seat of Bass at the 2010 federal election stated that:\nOn 14 August 2018, Senator Fraser Anning indicated support for the scheme during his maiden speech.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14863504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14863504", "title": "CIA transnational anti-crime and anti-drug activities", "text": "CIA transnational anti-crime and anti-drug activities\n\nThis article deals with activities of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency related to transnational crime, including the illicit drug trade.\n\nTwo offices of the CIA Directorate of Intelligence have analytical responsibilities in this area. The Office of Transnational Issues applies unique functional expertise to assess existing and emerging threats to US national security and provides the most senior US policymakers, military planners, and law enforcement with analysis, warning, and crisis support.\n\nThe CIA Crime and Narcotics Center researches information on international narcotics trafficking and organized crime for policymakers and the law enforcement community. Since the CIA has no domestic police authority, it sends its analytic information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and other law enforcement organizations, such as the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (OFAC).\n\nAnother part of the CIA, the National Clandestine Service, collects human intelligence (HUMINT) in these areas.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODOC),\n\nDrug cultivation thrives on instability, corruption and poor governance. The world's biggest drug producing centres are in regions beyond the control of the central government, like South Afghanistan, South-West Colombia and East Myanmar. Until government control, democracy and the rule of law are restored, these regions will remain nests of insurgency and drug production—and represent the biggest challenge to containment.\n\nEspecially in developing countries in conflict, there have been allegations that the CIA assisted the illicit drug activities of local leaders who saw that as a payment for their assistance.\n\nCIA publishes reference materials in this area, such as \"Heroin Movement Worldwide\".\n\nThere have been allegations that CIA was involved in the Latin American drug trade, possibly to finance operations in Nicaragua and other areas where Congress had denied funding, such as Afghanistan during the Soviet invasion, and in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War. According to a personal account by Everett Ellis Briggs, former U.S. Ambassador to Panama and Honduras, CIA undermined efforts to put a stop to the drug smuggling activities of Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega prior to the December, 1989 U.S. invasion of Panama.\n\nReleased on April 13, 1989, the Kerry Committee report found that the U.S. State Department had assisted drug traffickers:\n\nwho provided support for the Contras were involved in drug trafficking ... and elements of the Contras themselves knowingly received financial and material assistance from drug traffickers.\n\nSome of these payments were after the traffickers had been indicted by federal law enforcement agencies on drug charges or while traffickers were under active investigation by these same agencies. The report declared, \"It is clear that individuals who provided support for the Contras were involved in drug trafficking ... and elements of the Contras themselves knowingly received financial and material assistance from drug traffickers.\"\n\nRepresentative Maxine Waters testified to Congress:\n\nIn 1996, investigative journalist Gary Webb wrote a series of articles for the \"San Jose Mercury News\" entitled, \"Dark Alliance\", in which he reported evidence that CIA aircraft, which had ferried arms to the Nicaraguan \"Contras,\" had been used to ship cocaine to the United States on their return flights. In 1998 the new DCI, George Tenet, declared that he was releasing the report. The report of CIA Inspector General Frederick Hitz and Hitz's testimony showed that the \"CIA did not 'expeditiously' cut off relations with alleged drug traffickers\" and \"the CIA was aware of allegations that 'dozens of people and a number of companies connected in some fashion to the contra program' were involved in drug trafficking\" Hitz also said that under an agreement in 1982 between Ronald Reagan's Attorney General William French Smith and the CIA, agency officers were not required to report allegations of drug trafficking involving non-employees, which was defined as meaning paid and non-paid \"assets [meaning agents], pilots who ferried supplies to the contras, as well as contra officials and others. This agreement was revealed, at a time when there were allegations that the CIA was using drug dealers in its covert operation to bring down the leftist Sandinista government in Nicaragua. Only after Congressional funds were restored in 1986 was the agreement modified to require the CIA to stop paying agents whom it believed were involved in the drug trade.\n\nWebb also alleged that Central American narcotics traffickers could distribute cocaine in U.S. cities in the 1980s without the interference of normal law enforcement agencies, and that the CIA intervened to prevent the prosecution of drug dealers who were helping to fund the \"Contras\". The \"Mercury News\" ultimately retracted Webb's conclusions, and Webb was not authorized to conduct any further investigative reporting. Webb was transferred to cover non-controversial suburban stories and subsequently gave up journalism and committed suicide.\n\nIn 1984, U.S. officials began receiving reports of Contra cocaine trafficking. Three officials told journalists that they considered these reports \"reliable.\" Former Panamanian deputy health minister Dr. Hugo Spadafora, who had fought with the Contra army, outlined charges of cocaine trafficking to a prominent Panamanian official and was later found murdered. The charges linked the Contra trafficking to Sebastian Gonzalez Mendiola, who was charged with cocaine trafficking on November 26, 1984, in Costa Rica.\n\nOn March 16, 1986, the \"San Francisco Examiner\" published a report on the \"1983 seizure of 430 pounds of cocaine from a Colombian freighter\" in San Francisco which indicated that a \"cocaine ring in the San Francisco Bay area helped finance Nicaragua's Contra rebels.\" Carlos Cabezas, convicted of conspiracy to traffic cocaine, said that the profits from his crimes \"belonged to ... the Contra revolution.\" He told the Examiner, \"I just wanted to get the Communists out of my country.\" Julio Zavala, also convicted on trafficking charges, said \"that he supplied $500,000 to two Costa Rican-based Contra groups and that the majority of it came from cocaine trafficking in the San Francisco Bay area, Miami and New Orleans.\"\n\nFormer CIA agent David MacMichael explained the inherent relationship between CIA activity in Latin America and drug trafficking:\n\nOnce you set up a covert operation to supply arms and money, it's very difficult to separate it from the kind of people who are involved in other forms of trade, and especially drugs. There is a limited number of planes, pilots and landing strips. By developing a system for supply of the Contras, the US built a road for drug supply into the US.\n\nIn November 1996, shortly after then-CIA Director John Deutsch went to Los Angeles to refute allegations raised by the Gary Webb investigative report on cocaine trafficking and the CIA, a Miami jury indicted Venezuelan CIA asset, General Ramon Guillen Davila, who \"led a CIA counter-narcotics program that put a ton of cocaine on U.S. streets in 1990.\" \"The New York Times\" reported:\n\nThe CIA—over the objections of the Drug Enforcement Administration, a branch of the Justice Department—approved the shipment of at least one ton of nearly pure cocaine to Miami International Airport as a way of gathering information about the Colombian drug cartels. But the cocaine ended up on the street because of \"poor judgment and management on the part of several CIA officers,\" the intelligence agency said.\n\nAlfred McCoy, author of The Politics of Heroin in Southeast Asia, described CIA complicity in the Vietnam-era drug trade originating in Southeast Asia, and further described CIA attempts to interfere with publication of the book.\n\nOn June 1 of this year an official of the US Central Intelligence Agency paid a visit to the New York offices of my publisher, Harper and Row, Inc. This CIA official was Mr. Cord Meyer, Jr. (now the CIA's Assistant Deputy Director of Plans; formerly the CIA official in charge of providing covert financial subsidies for organizations such as the National Student Association, Encounter Magazine, and the Congress for Cultural Freedom). Mr. Meyer urged several of his old friends among Harper and Row's senior management to provide him with a copy of the galley proofs of my history of the international narcotics traffic, The Politics of Heroin in Southeast Asia. In this book I show the complicity of various US agencies—particularly the CIA and the State Department—in organizing the Southeast Asian drug traffic since the early 1950s.\n\nAccording to Dr. McCoy, the agency intimidated his sources and tried to keep the book from being published. There is also an article in Peace Magazine containing similar allegations. The Mel Gibson film, \"Air America\". \"Air America\" was based on the Christopher Robbins book \"Air America\", which chronicled the history of CIA proprietary airlines in Southeast Asia.\n\nIn his book, McCoy wrote\n\nIt is transported in the planes, vehicles, and other conveyances supplied by the United States. The profit from the trade has been going into the pockets of some of our best friends in Southeast Asia. The charge concludes with the statement that the traffic is being carried on with the indifference if not the closed-eye compliance of some American officials and there is no likelihood of its being shut down in the foreseeable future.\"\n\nThis is not inconsistent with Leary's description (with respect to Laos and Southeast Asia), although there seem to be differences in the degree of knowledge and consent by CIA management.\n\nMcCoy asserts that the French administration of Indochina had financed its covert operations with the drug trade, and the CIA had simply replaced the French, to finance similar operations. He said he had gone to Paris and interviewed retired general Maurice Belleux, the former head of the French equivalent of the CIA, an organization called Service de Documentation Extérieure et de Contre-Espionnage (SDECE, predecessor of the current French service, the Direction générale de la sécurité extérieure).\n\nIn an amazing interview he told me that French military intelligence had financed all their covert operations from the control of the Indochina drug trade ... The French paratroopers fighting with hill tribes collected the opium and French aircraft would fly the opium down to Saigon and the Sino-Vietnamese mafia that was the instrument of French intelligence would then distribute the opium. The central bank accounts, the sharing of the profits, was all controlled by French military intelligence. He concluded the interview by telling me that it was his information that the CIA had taken over the French assets and were pursuing something of the same policy. So I went to Southeast Asia to follow up on that lead and that's what took me into doing this whole book. It was basically pulling a thread and keep tucking at it and a veil masking the reality began to unravel.\n\n During the 40 years of the cold war, from the late 1940s to this year, the CIA pursued a policy that I call \"radical pragmatism\". Their mission was to stop communism and in pursuit of that mission they would ally with anyone and do anything to fight communism.\n\nMcCoy does not so much accuse the CIA of direct participation in the drug trade, than protecting the drug trade of people the CIA believed essential allies in its primary mission.\n\nPowerful, upland political figures control the societies and economies in these regions and part of that panoply of power is the opium trade. The CIA extended the mantle of their alliance to these drug lords and in every case the drug lords used it to expand a small local trade in opium into a major source of supply for the world markets and the United States.\n\nWhile they were allied with the United States these drug lords were absolutely immune to any kind of investigation. If you're involved in any kind of illicit commodity trade, organized crime activity like drug trafficking, there is only one requisite for success, immunity, and the CIA gave them that. As long as they were allied with the CIA, the local police and then the DEA stayed away from the drug lords.\n\nUNODOC observes\n\nSoutheast Asia is closing a tragic chapter that has blighted the Golden Triangle for decades—the region is now almost opium free. Yet it is not free of poverty and therefore farmers remain vulnerable to the temptations of illicit incomes. Much more assistance—for alternative crops and also for viable income substitution—is needed to ensure that drug-free development is sustained in the greater Mekong basin.\n\nIt may well be that US aid, perhaps not from the CIA but from the Agency for International Development, will be needed create these alternatives. This level of strategy is the responsibility of the United States Department of State.\n\nAccording to William M. Leary, a University of Georgia historian who analyzed Laotian operations in a study backed by the CIA's Center for the Study of Intelligence, CIA-led covert action in Laos was the largest paramilitary operation in the history of the Agency. Although a large body of evidence exists claiming that the CIA was knowingly complicit in opium smuggling operations, Leary takes a position which claims that the CIA, which funded his work, was not complicit in the drug trade.\n\nWhile the CIA reports on the flow of opium, and its derivative, heroin, in Southwest Asia, US government researchers also observe that the indirect effects of the United States Department of Defense and the Central Intelligence Agency, as well as the Afghan Northern Alliance, have increased the flow.\"Afghanistan and Pakistan produced an estimated 41 percent of the world's opium in 1998. Europe remains the primary market for Southwest Asian heroin, but the drug is also consumed in Africa, the United States, and Canada.\" \nAccording to the CIA flow study,\n\nLTC John Glaze, USAF, Deputy Commander of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan, writing for the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College,\n\nOpium production in Afghanistan has skyrocketed since the U.S. military teamed with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and Afghanistan's Northern Alliance in toppling the Taliban in 2001 ... This growing opium trade is threatening to destabilize the Afghan government and turn the conflict-ridden country back into a safe haven for drug traffickers and terrorists.\n\nHe quotes Afghan President Hamid Karzai as saying \"Either Afghanistan destroys opium or opium will destroy Afghanistan.\" Glaze does not suggest that the CIA takes an active role in the ongoing drug trade, but sees the CIA as having influenced the current Afghan economic, governance, and security situations, which encourage the growth of opium and heroin production.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)\n\nThe magnitude and importance of Afghanistan's opium economy are virtually unprecedented and unique in global experience—it has been roughly estimated as equivalent to 36% of licit (i.e. non-drug) GDP in 2004/05, or if drugs are also included in the denominator, 27% of total drug-inclusive GDP\n\nKarzai, on the Ministry of Counternarcotics webpage in 2006, said \"Our goal is to secure a sustainable decrease in poppy cultivation, drug production, consumption of illicit drugs, and trafficking with a view to complete and sustain elimination. As a result, it will pave the way for a pro-poor, private sector-led economic growth.\" However, as of July 2007, efforts at eradication alienate the population and are carried out only half-heartedly by local military in the face of U.S. pressure.\nThe exact same situation was dramatized in 1989 in the British TV drama Traffik. A 2006 NY Times article said that 2006 Afghan opium production was up 50% over 2005. A recent United Nations report analyzes the economics of the opium industry.\n\nIt was alleged by the Soviets on multiple occasions that American CIA agents were helping smuggle opium out of Afghanistan, either into the West, in order to raise money for the Afghan resistance or into the Soviet Union in order to weaken it through drug addiction. According to Alfred McCoy, the CIA supported various Afghan drug lords, for instance Gulbuddin Hekmatyar.\n\nAfter the September 11, 2001 attacks, a combination of U.S. CIA and military forces (US and allied powers), in support of the Northern Alliance, quickly regained control of Afghanistan from the Taliban, leaving the country \"in economic ruin and political chaos. In December 2001, a number of prominent Afghans met in Bonn, Germany, under United Nations (UN) auspices to develop a plan to reestablish the State of Afghanistan, including provisions for a new constitution and national elections. As part of that agreement, the United Kingdom (UK) was designated the lead country in addressing counter-narcotics issues in Afghanistan. Afghanistan subsequently implemented its new constitution and held national elections. On December 7, 2004, Hamid Karzai was formally sworn in as president of a democratic Afghanistan.\"\n\nApproximately 40,000 foreign troops help manage security in Afghanistan, principally of 32,000 regular soldiers from 37 North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces: the International Security Assistance Force. 8,000 US and other special operations forces make up the balance. To manage this turmoil, over 40,000 foreign troops still occupy Afghanistan. There is significant resistance, both from the ideological/theocratic Taliban, especially in southern Afghanistan, and also independent local warlords and drug organizations. Antonio Maria Costa, Executive Director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), described the situation this way: \"There is no rule of law in most of the southern parts of Afghanistan—the bullets rule.\"\n\nIt is helpful to be aware of certain areas of Afghanistan, which play a role in the drug traffic.\n\nThe 2004 United Nations Development Programme ranked Afghanistan number 173 of 177 countries, using a human development index, with Afghanistan near or at the bottom of virtually every development indicator including nutrition, infant mortality, life expectancy, and literacy. Several factors encourage opium production, the greatest being economic: the high rate of return on investment from opium poppy cultivation has driven an agricultural shift in Afghanistan from growing traditional crops to growing opium poppy. Much of the funds involved do not go through traditional banks, but rather the \"hawala\" system, which makes tracking by the CIA much more difficult, although not impossible. See the role of \"hawala\" and Afghan drugs, and also the FININT section of CIA transnational anti-terrorism activities.\n\nIt must be emphasized that opium cultivation, on this scale, is not traditional.\n\nDespite the fact that only 12 percent of its land is arable, agriculture is a way of life for 70 percent of Afghans and is the country's primary source of income. During good years, Afghanistan produced enough food to feed its people as well as supply a surplus for export. Its traditional agricultural products include wheat, corn, barley, rice, cotton, fruit, nuts, and grapes. However, its agricultural economy has suffered considerably ... Afghanistan's largest and fastest cash crop is opium.\n\nAfghanistan's rugged terrain encourages local autonomy, which, in some cases, means local leadership committed to an opium economy. The terrain makes surveillance and enforcement difficult.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) \"2007 Afghanistan Opium Survey\", Afghanistan produced approximately 8,200 metric tonnes of opium — nearly double the estimate of global annual consumption. In an April 25, 2007 op-ed in \"The Washington Post\", Antonio Maria Costa, Executive Director of UNODC, asked \"Does opium defy the laws of economics? Historically, no. In 2001, prices surged tenfold from 2000, to a record high, after the Taliban all but eliminated opium poppy cultivation across the Afghan territory under its control. So why, with last year's bumper crop, is the opposite not occurring? Early estimates suggest that opium cultivation is likely to increase again this year. That should be an added incentive to sell.\n\nHe speculated,\n\nAs of October, 2009, the Taliban are supporting the opium trade and deriving funding from it.\n\nAgain, that \"hawala\" handles and launders much of the funds involved make enforcement even more difficult.\n\nWorking with the UK and the Afghan government, the United States developed its own strategy to counter the opium problem in Afghanistan, which has the following five pillars: \n\nThe Department of State (DoS), the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the Department of Defense (DoD), and the Department of Justice (DoJ) are the primary organizations involved in carrying out this counternarcotics strategy for the US. The role of the CIA has not been mentioned, although the CIA is involved in preparing lists of terrorism suspects for the United States Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control. UNODC's executive director believes these measures are insufficient: \"What can be done? Since NATO forces are wary of making enemies out of opium farmers by being associated with eradication, and since the Afghan government is opposed to spraying poppy fields, rounding up the major traffickers may be the best available option for disrupting Afghanistan's lucrative opium market.\"\n\nBoth demand and supply reduction are important. \"the consuming countries need to get serious about curbing drug addiction. If there was less demand for heroin, the bottom really would fall out of the opium market.\" Farmers economically dependent on opium must have viable alternatives that give sustainable income. On the supply side, identifying the most-wanted traffickers and subjecting them to international arrest warrants with extradition, asset seizure, and travel bans could help. While it is not easy to destroy opium storage and heroin production laboratories, it is far easier to destroy drugs at the source than in transit.\n\n\"Afghanistan's neighbors are either accomplices or victims in the opium trade, so they need to be part of the solution. They could, for example, improve intelligence-sharing and border security to ensure that more opium is seized. At the moment, less than a quarter of the world's opium is intercepted, compared with around half of global cocaine output.\" This complicates, of course, the complex US relations with Pakistan and Iran.\n\nThere is an important nexus between drugs and \"hawala\" (informal money transfer system) in Afghanistan. The UN analysis is based on interviews with a sample of 54 \"hawala\" brokers in the main centers of \"hawala\" activity of Afghanistan as well as during a visit to Peshawar, Pakistan. In addition, interviews were conducted with users of the hawala system (drug dealers, businessmen, traders, international aid workers), regulators (government officials, central bank personnel), and formal\nservice providers (bankers, accountants). In addition to \"hawala\", they found protection payments and connections, by which the drug industry has major linkages with local administration as well as high levels of the national government.\n\nSee informal money transfer systems to support clandestine activity, including terrorism, drug trade, and intelligence collection. See the section of the article, CIA transnational anti-terrorism activities on how the intelligence community and the United States Department of the Treasury attempt to control \"hawala\" used to finance terrorism.\n\nDifferent localities studied by the UNODC give different views of the laundering of drug funds. It is difficult to get a solid sense of the overall economy. In Faizabad, for example, indicated that during certain times of the year close to 100% of the liquidity of the hawala system in the province is derived from drugs, whereas in Herat, the Northern Alliance stronghold, it was estimated that only 30% of the \"hawala\" market's overall transaction volume is directly linked to drugs. Analysis of data gathered in places like Herat was complicated by confirmed links between drug money and legitimate imports. The southern region (Helmand and Kandahar provinces) is also a key centre for money laundering in Afghanistan (about 60% of the funds are drug related and 80-90% of the hawala dealers in Kandahar [the former Taliban stronghold] and Helmand are involved in money transfers related to narcotics).\n\nHelmand has emerged as a key facilitator of the opium trade, both between provinces and exports, while overall estimates of the local hawala markets' drug-related component are of a similar order of magnitude to those in Kandahar. This finding\nadds weight to the notion that the major trading centers in these two neighboring provinces should be treated as essentially one market. Bearing this in mind, the study calculated that Helmand could account for roughly US$800 million of Afghanistan's drug-related hawala business and that Herat is the second largest contributor, with in the range of US$\n300-500 million of drug money laundered annually.\n\nFurthermore, Dubai appears to be a central clearing house for international hawala activities. In addition, various cities in Pakistan, notably Peshawar, Quetta, and Karachi, are major transaction centers. It appears that even in the case of drug shipments to Iran, payments for them come into Afghanistan from Pakistan ... the hawala system has been key to the deepening and widening of the \"informal economy\" in Afghanistan, where there is anonymity and the opportunity to launder money.\n\nHawala, however, also contributes positively to the regional economy. It has been central to the survival of Afghanistan's financial system through war. According to Maimbo (2003), \"integral to processes of early developmentand vital for the continued delivery of funds to the provinces.\"\n\"The hawala system also plays an important role in currency exchange. It participates in the Central Bank's regular foreign currency auctions, and was instrumental in the successful introduction of a new currency for Afghanistan in 2002-2003.\"\n\nThere are claims and counterclaims that the US may have used groups involved in drug smuggling in an effort to destabilize Iran. Hard evidence is lacking. The group, \"Jundullah\", is made up of ethnic Baluchis, and is in the Baluchistan region of Pakistan, bordering Iran. It has taken responsibility for the deaths and kidnappings of more than a dozen Iranian soldiers and officials. Again, there is no hard evidence. The situation also may reflect a conflict between the U.S. military and the Vice-President Dick Cheney, in that the military believes the weapons may be purchased through the drug trade, but Cheney believes they are being supplied by the government of Iran.\n\nThe Inter Press Service report quoted United States Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns as saying, on June 12, 2007, that Iran was \"transferring arms to the Taliban in Afghanistan\", putting it in the context of a larger alleged Iranian role of funding \"extremists\" in the Palestinian territories, Lebanon and Iraq. \"The following day he asserted that there was \"irrefutable evidence\" of such Iranian arms supply to the Taliban.\" The reporter mentioned that Cheney had used the same phrase \"irrefutable evidence\" on Sep. 20, 2002, in referring to the administration's accusation that Saddam Hussein had a programme to enrich uranium as the basis for a nuclear weapon. It is the reporter's theory that the recurrence of the phrase meant the statement could have been crafted by Cheney, but it also could be a coincidental use of a phrase that has been used in other official announcements.\n\nThe Jundallah group is made up Baluchi tribesmen, often operating out of Pakistan, but the Baluchi have a complex relationship with Pakistan, Iran, and Afghanistan. While news sources agree that the US government has not made a Presidential Finding that covert action is needed, nor reported such action to the eight senior members of Congress who oversee the most sensitive operations, the argument is made that CIA subsidies go to Pakistan, which, in turn, funds the group. If Pakistan does all the funding, the letter of the law would be followed, in that the US is not subsidizing the group.\n\nIt is possible that, as in Southeast Asia, the activities of a group are not directly funded, but are funded by allowing them to operate in the drug trade. General Dan McNeill, the NATO commander in Afgahanistan, pointed to the \"U.S. command's knowledge of the link between the heroin trade and trafficking in arms between southeastern Iran and southern Afghanistan. The main entry point for opium and heroin smuggling between Afghanistan and Iran runs through the Iranian province of Sistan-Baluchistan to the capital of Zahedan. The two convoys of arms which were intercepted by NATO forces last spring had evidently come through that Iranian province.\" \n\nAccording to a report by Robert Tait of The Guardian Feb. 17, Sistan-Baluchistan province has also been the setting for frequent violent incidents involving militant Sunni groups and drug traffickers. Tait reported that more than 3,000 Iranian security personnel had been killed in armed clashes with drug traffickers since the 1979 Islamic revolution.\n\nCIA representatives denied involvement to ABC News, saying \"the account of alleged CIA action is false\" and reiterated that the U.S. provides no funding of the Jundullah group, and no hard evidence of US involvement. Pakistani government sources say the secret campaign against Iran by Jundullah was on the agenda when Vice President Dick Cheney met with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf in February.\nWhile Herat is not the highest-volume area of opium trade, Herat, and the other Iranian border areas of Farah, and Nimroz, have some of the highest prices, presumably due to demand from the Iranian market. \"Opium prices are especially high in Iran, where law enforcement is strict and where a large share of the opiate consumption market is still for opium rather than heroin. Not surprisingly, it appears that very significant profits can be made by crossing the Iranian border or by entering Central Asian countries like Tajikistan.\"\n\n\"The UNODC estimates 60 percent of Afghanistan's opium is trafficked across Iran's border (much of it in transit to Europe). Seizures of the narcotic by Iranian authorities in the first half of this year are up 29 percent from the same period last year, according to the country's police chief, as reported by Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) ... The Washington Post reports that Iran has the world's highest per capita number of opium addicts ... Experts say those affected most are the millions of unemployed Iranians and youth chafing under the restrictions placed on them from the Islamic government and basij, or civilian morals police. The Iranian government has gone through several phases in dealing with its drug problem.\n\nFirst, during the 1980s, its approach was supply-sided: \"Law-and-order policies with zero tolerance led to the arrest of tens of thousands of addicts and the execution of thousands of narcotics traffickers.\" \"There are an estimated 68,000 Iranians imprisoned for drug trafficking and another 32,000 for drug addiction (out of a total prison population of 170,000, based on 2001 statistics)\"\n\nBeehner said \"Tehran also has spent millions of dollars and deployed thousands of troops to secure its porous 1,000-mile border with Afghanistan and Pakistan ... a few hundred Iranian drug police die each year in battles with smugglers. Referring to the head of the UNODC office in Iran, Roberto Arbitrio, Beehner quoted Arbitrio in an interview with \"The Times.\" \"You have drug groups like guerrilla forces, [who] ... shoot with rocket launchers, heavy machine guns, and Kalashnikovs.\"\n\nA second-phase strategy came under President Mohammad Khatami, focused more on prevention and treatment. Drug traffic is considered a security problem, and much of it is associated with Baluchi tribesmen, who recognize traditional tribal rather than national borders. Current (2007) reports cite , possibly supported by the CIA.\n\nIranian drug strategy changed again under President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who took office in 2005. Iran's drug policy has been reconsidered and shifted back toward supply interdiction and boosting border security. It is unclear if this is connected to more wide-ranging concerns with border security, perhaps in relation to \n\nSamii's 2003 paper described Iran's \"primary approach to the narcotics threat [as] interdiction.Iran shares a 936 kilometer border with Afghanistan and a 909 kilometer border with Pakistan, and the terrain in the two eastern provinces—Sistan va Baluchistan and Khorasan—is very rough. The Iranian government has set up static defenses along this border. This includes concrete dams, berms, trenches, and minefields ...\n\nVarious forms of slavery are still present throughout the world. Some put individuals into local service for labor, sex, or the related issues of child soldiers. There is also a form that ships individuals from less developed to more developed countries. Others are based on debt bondage. The US has a Special Advisor to the Secretary of State, at an Ambassadorial level, to deal with the problem in the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons.\n\nA CIA analyst in an independent research program characterized the agency's understanding of the problem.\n\nCIA provided analytic support to the Department of State on human smuggling and trafficking, with an expert who oversaw the assessment, drafting, and coordination of the 2002 Trafficking in Persons report. As part of intergovernmental work, it collected and reported intelligence to US law enforcement agencies conducting operations against members of Latin American and Middle Eastern terrorist groups and against smugglers of aliens into the United States.\n\nCIA works with the United States Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FINCen). With respect to efforts to apply the Patriot Act to a foreign bank involved in money laundering. CIA analysts identified key players in the bank, their relationship to international organized crime, and the bank's efforts to hide its accounts from US law enforcement. See Financial intelligence (FININT).\n\n"}
{"id": "51192724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51192724", "title": "Canterbury District Health Board", "text": "Canterbury District Health Board\n\nThe Canterbury District Health Board (Canterbury DHB) is a district health board with the focus on providing healthcare to the entire Canterbury Regional area, located within the South Island of New Zealand. It is responsible for roughly 510,000 residents; or 12% of New Zealand's population. The Canterbury District Health Board covers a territory of 26,881 square kilometers and is divided between six territorial local authorities.\n\nIn July 2005, \"The New Zealand Herald\" reported that the Canterbury District Health Board and Telecom NZ had signed a three-year telecommunications deal. The deal gave Telecom NZ the responsibility for providing all health board telecommunications. There was also a two-year right of renewal clause.\n\nIt has been regarded as a successful accountable care system which has moderated the rate of growth in hospital use by investing in services in the community. GPs and consultants agreed health pathways for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with common medical conditions thereby breaking down barriers between clinicians.\n\nIn 2001, after multiple union contracts fell through, more than 1100 staff members of the Princess Margaret Hospital went on strike to protest the uncertainty regarding their jobs at the hospital. However, the scope of the full strike was roughly 3000 people from hospitals throughout the region.\n\nIn September 2005, the health board was accused of \"virtually sweat shop conditions\" by the National Union of Public Employees. The board denied all accusations against them. Following the accusations, roughly 500 personnel from the district started a five day strike for a 30% pay rise.\n\nIn December 2016, approximately 3974 appointments were postponed due to a payment dispute with the Regional District Health Boards, including Canterbury, and members of the Association of Salaried Medical Specialists. It was estimated that the resident medical officers had forfeited roughly $1.1 million in lost wages.\n"}
{"id": "50376737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50376737", "title": "Childbirth in Mexico", "text": "Childbirth in Mexico\n\nIn its early history, Mexico was occupied by multiple indigenous tribes such as the Mayans and Aztecs. In the 16th century, Spain colonized Nueva Espana and took over the land from the indigenous people. Though it is now an independent nation, Mexico retains much of the cultural influence of Spain, including its official religion of Catholicism, the Spanish language, and the importance of machismo- the belief that men are superior to women. Mexico also retains much of the traditional beliefs of the indigenous people who first occupied the country. Besides Spanish, there are over one hundred different languages spoken in the country today. As a result, the current medical system involves a mix of traditional and Western medicinal techniques.\n\nTraditional beliefs such as Susto, also known as fear of illness, is thought to occur when the soul leaves the body and wanders. It is believed that women experience this more often than men. Empacho, or the dislocation of body functions is often associated with morning sickness in pregnancy because it is believed that the baby is bringing increased energy to the digestive process. Mal de Ojo is another important perceived cause of illness which relates to birth. It is believed that if someone is looked upon with admiration or jealousy that they will become ill themselves.\n\nToday in Mexico, 24% of families live in poverty, nearly 40% of the population is uninsured, and the average life expectancy is 77.3 years. 95% of the population is literate. Mexico has a low infant mortality rate (7 per 1,000 births) and maternal mortality rate (43.2 per 100,000 births), which are low in comparison to other countries with a similar economic status. Mexico's contraceptive use rate of 72.9% is high compared to similar countries.\n\nMexico contains a variety of indigenous groups, cultural influences, and socioeconomic situations which all affect health outcomes. The machismo culture definitely influences pregnancy and the perception of women. However, amongst all groups pregnancy is welcome. It was found in 2012 that only 12% of births were unwanted, compared to a much higher global average. Furthermore, there is little information on the sexual education received by women from different socioeconomic classes and geographic regions, which may influence pregnancy behaviors and beliefs. Traditional culture believes that pregnancy is a sacred event. This belief carries over into the post-Colombian Catholic culture that is very prevalent in Mexico today. The traditional birth culture is shaped by the beliefs of a hot-cold balance within the body. This balance must be maintained throughout the pregnancy and delivery process. To ensure the balance, women will avoid “hot” foods during their pregnancy, as the gestation is considered a “hot” event. Furthermore, women attempting to become pregnant are advised to avoid cold surfaces, like medical examination tables, as they are thought to promote sterility or infertility.\n\nA main differentiator of pregnancy behaviors is socioeconomic status. This will influence a woman’s outlook on pregnancy, her level of care received during pregnancy and the lifestyle changes that she makes during this time. Women are encouraged to avoid strenuous work during pregnancy, and some are encouraged to leave work altogether in order to ensure a healthy pregnancy and birth. During pregnancy a majority of women will receive some form of prenatal care. World Data Bank’s most recent statistic for Mexican prenatal care stated that 98% of women were seeking some prenatal care (2012). While a vast majority of women are receiving care, this is often not consistent and varies across socioeconomic class. Women of a higher socioeconomic class are more likely to seek care from a GP than their counterparts. Historically, women have been more likely to seek prenatal care later in their pregnancy, with many women not obtaining such care until the second trimester. Data that breaks down incidence of modern prenatal care needs to be collected.\nBesides maintaining the hot-cold balance and avoiding work, there are other lifestyle changes that a woman may take on during her pregnancy. Women are encouraged to walk frequently throughout their pregnancies and often take to their mothers or grandmothers for comfort or advice. Strong familial support is tied to improved pregnancy outcomes as the family is traditionally very supportive of the pregnant woman.\n\nAccess to care is restricted in many ways, and to such an extent that certain members of the population have access to forms of care and choices that others do not. There are private healthcare institutions available for those who can afford them, and large public health institutions which can provide care without costs to those eligible to be enrolled in their programs. In 1987 more than 80% of births in Mexico took place under the care of traditional midwives and empirical midwives.\nThere are two fundamental concepts in the traditional medicine practiced in Mexico; hot-cold duality and naturaleza (inherent nature):\n\nTraditional midwives sometimes use hydrotherapy, there are two basic types described in the literature:\n\n\nTraditionalist midwives may sometimes also incorporate some of the following to help ease the process of labor:\n\n\nPolicies surrounding labor vary from location and type of facility, so labor processes can vary amongst women geographically and by socioeconomic status. In large public hospitals women who birth there tend to have some sort of Psychoprophylaxis class prior to going into labor. These are the equivalent of Lamaze classes, where women are taught techniques in preparation for childbearing without the use of anesthesia. Techniques include education, psychological and physical conditioning, and breathing exercises. These classes are not necessarily hospital affiliated (i.e. they are taught outside of the hospital and obstetricians do not directly refer women to them, so there is not a wide attendance). Women often laboring in these hospitals will have epidurals or other forms of analgesia, if deemed necessary. Family members are not allowed in labor unless the family member has also taken Psychoprophylaxis courses.\n\nIn privately ran hospitals, women will often get discharged 24hrs after vaginal delivery and 48hrs following a Cesarean. Standard practice is that all laboring women have intravenous lines, pubic hair is not routinely shaved, and all primaparas are given episiotomies. In these hospitals the father or other family members are required to be present during labor and birth (even for Cesareans), although only one member is allowed to be present because of space. Presence of support system (family members or father) is also encouraged at prenatal visits. During labor women are allowed to walk, drink juice (among other liquids). Babies must remain with their mother’s postpartum because the only nursery available is meant for babies with low apgar scores and/or low temperatures, and even these babies are only kept under observation at the nursery for 3–4 hours. Really sick babies who might need serious medical treatment are transferred elsewhere. Most, if not all, neonates are breastfed.\n\nIn local midwife practice, the homes the midwife would attend would often have no telephones, electricity, nor running water. She (the midwife) will bring an oxygen tank, Doppler unit, Pitocin and methergine in case of hemorrhage, herbal tinctures, suture material, bulb syringe among other things. She might also bring a car in case emergency transportation is necessary. During labor the midwife will massage the laboring person with oils and use hot compresses, and encourage walking and position changes to facilitate labor. Delivery will often happen in a semi sitting or squatting position. After the baby is born the midwife will stay with the mother and baby from 2 - 4 hrs. She might use aceite de palo (plant oil extract) for the cord stump, which is to be applied with every diaper change to help disinfect and dry the cord rapidly.\n\nBirth attendants can include a variety of providers, including general physicians (GP), obstetric nurses (ON), professional midwives (PM) and traditional birth attendants (TBA). ONs and PMs are not widely used in the hospital setting and physicians account for 87% of obstetric care in Mexico. The education and outcomes for each profession are outlined here. The WHO-supported competencies for skilled birth attendants are met 43% by GP education, 54% by ON education, and 89% by PM education. The ON is educated at the University level while the PM must have completed secondary education and then a 3-year midwifery education program. A 2011 study found that PMs often have improved outcomes compared to GPs and ONs, possibly due to their apprentice-like education. GPs and ONs are associated with higher use of episiotomy and oxytocin.\n\nTBAs have varying levels of education. ‘Traditional’ TBAs tend to live in remote indigenous regions and their knowledge is passed down through oral tradition. Trained TBAs have typically attended some form of institutional training program. Unskilled TBAs lack the generational knowledge of indigenous TBAs and do not have the education of the trained TBAs. While the overall number of hospital births and physician-based obstetric care has increased in recent years, maternal mortality has not significantly changed. This is because in rural states, 50% of births still occur at home either with or without a skilled birth attendant. Additionally, rural clinics tend to be staffed by GPs or medical students, who often lack obstetric experience or expertise. There is an 80.2% rate of institutional delivery, with 46.2% of births being C-section. In more traditional births, women are allowed to birth in whichever position is most comfortable for them, with many opting for a squatting position. In some cases, the spouse will hold the birthing woman as she pushes .\n\nPain relief is variable amongst women, with rates of pharmaceutical analgesia being higher in institutional births. This is further outlined in the section regarding labor. After the infant is expelled from the body, a TBA may stand in between the mother’s legs to prevent the heat of pregnancy escaping, which throws off the hot-cold balance. Once the placenta is delivered, it is typically set aside to be analyzed for completeness. Indication of a retained placenta can be cause for increased medical intervention. If the birth is taking place in a home, the birth attendant may bring the mother into a clinic or hospital in case of complication related to retained placenta. Traditionally, the placenta is buried at the home, with a male’s placenta being buried under the porch and a female’s being buried near the stove.\n\nPostpartum visits will often include family planning and teaching; still there are some similar beliefs across the board about the harmful effects of contraceptives. Especially since fertility is highly valued among the culture, pregnancy is viewed as a gift from God. In traditional practice it is believed that the maternal postpartum diet should only include chicken, burned tortillas, coffee and atole (corn and flour based beverage), nothing of a cold nature is allowed. Shifts in modern medicine have a lot less restrictions, including a varied diet and milk. The biggest postpartum ritual in Mexico is the idea of the cuarentena. This is a forty-day postpartum period of rest, where women are supposed to avoid bathing, intimacy, and remain in some ways secluded. Family relatives (especially female family relatives) are supposed to help with cooking, cleaning, and taking care of the mother’s older children while she rests. Diet restrictions during cuarentena include no chili, other spices, cold foods, fish, pork and citrus. This is a practice that can be traced to biblical times (Leviticus 12 from the bible, this practice continues to play on the Catholic influence on the population’s overall culture). More midwives are teaching women to practice a prompt return to normal activity, instead of observing the cuarentena. Not observing the cuarentena was thought to lead to illness, infertility, infection and even death.\n\nIn private hospitals, patients will be seen as soon as a week after discharge for a complete check up. They will have follow up family planning visits one month into the postpartum period, women are then encouraged to have annual vaginal exams after the cuarentena. IUDs (Intrauterine Devices) are the most popular forms of contraception, these will be inserted during these visits. Paternalism is a major cultural principle and practice that also plays out during postpartum visits because men tend to be very involved in the decision making of what kind of contraception may be used, if any.\n\nIn Mexican culture, newborns are highly revered. The cuarentena period mentioned above is also largely for the newborn. The traditional cultural belief of “mal de ojo” is the main rationale behind this. It is believed that if the baby receives too much admiration from others, especially those outside of the family structure, that the baby will fall ill. For this reason, there are not any public ceremonies honoring the baby, though many families participate in a christening to thank God for the gift that they have been given. \nWhile the responsibility of caring for the newborn falls mainly on the mother, it is very common for the extended family to have a large part in child rearing. Often many families live in very close proximity, sometimes even in the same house as each other due to a strong emphasis placed on family values in Mexican culture. This transcends the nuclear family and extends into extended family. For example, the elders in the family are in charge of the care of the baby’s umbilical stump. The stump is covered by a coin and then the abdomen is wrapped tightly in a cloth, which is often red, as the color red is thought to ward off bad spirits. This dressing is changed daily, as it is thought necessary to place an herbal blend on the stump to aide in healing and prevent infection.\n\nThe concept of purity is important when taking care of newborns in Mexican culture, and therefore most babies are not breastfed. Breastmilk is viewed as impure and unsafe. The breastfeeding rate at one month checkups is around 11%. Babies are generally exclusively formula fed until two to three months at which time non-milk items are added to their diet.\nIn Mexican culture, it is believed that in order to keep an infant pure of heart, and in turn healthy, they must never experience distress. For this reason, infants spend most of their time being held by a family member to prevent them from crying. As young newborns, they are also swaddled in blankets made by family members to make them feel safe. Co-sleeping and baby-wearing are also encouraged as they are thought to allow the infant to gain spiritual strength through their mother which will protect them from evil spirits and promote good health. In an effort to avoid upsetting the infant and putting them at risk of being impure, circumcision is discouraged in Mexico, with only 11% of infants becoming circumcised.\n"}
{"id": "15232067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15232067", "title": "Condom effectiveness", "text": "Condom effectiveness\n\nCondom effectiveness is how effective condoms are at preventing STDs and pregnancy. Correctly using male condoms and other barriers like female condoms and dental dams, every time, can reduce (though not eliminate) the risk of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and viral hepatitis. They can also provide protection against other diseases that may be transmitted through sex like Zika and Ebola. Using male and female condoms correctly, every time, can also help prevent pregnancy.\n\nConsistent and correct use of male latex condoms can reduce (though not eliminate) the risk of STD transmission and pregnancy. To achieve the maximum protective effect, condoms must be used both consistently and correctly. Inconsistent use can lead to STD acquisition or pregnancy because transmission or conception can occur with a single act of intercourse. Similarly, if condoms are not used correctly, the protective effect may be diminished even when they are used consistently. The most reliable ways to avoid transmission of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), are to abstain from sexual activity or to be in a long-term mutually monogamous relationship with an uninfected partner. However, many infected persons may be unaware of their infections because STDs are often asymptomatic or unrecognized.\n\nLatex condoms, when used consistently and correctly, are highly effective in preventing the sexual transmission of HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. In addition, consistent and correct use of latex condoms reduces the risk of other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including diseases transmitted by genital secretions, and to a lesser degree, genital ulcer diseases. Condom use may reduce the risk for genital human papillomavirus (HPV) infection and HPV-associated diseases, e.g., genital warts and cervical cancer.There are two primary ways that STDs are transmitted. Some diseases, such as HIV infection, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and trichomoniasis, are transmitted when infected urethral or vaginal secretions contact mucosal surfaces (such as the male urethra, the vagina, or cervix). In contrast, genital ulcer diseases (such as genital herpes, syphilis, and chancroid) and human papillomavirus (HPV) infection are primarily transmitted through contact with infected skin or mucosal surfaces.\n\nLaboratory studies have demonstrated that latex condoms provide an essentially impermeable barrier to particles the size of STD pathogens.\n\nCondoms can be expected to provide different levels of protection for various STDs, depending on differences in how the diseases are transmitted. Condoms block transmission and acquisition of STDs by preventing contact between the condom wearer’s penis and a sex partner’s skin, mucosa, and genital secretions. A greater level of protection is provided for the diseases transmitted by genital secretions. A lesser degree of protection is provided for genital ulcer diseases or HPV because these infections also may be transmitted by exposure to areas (e.g., infected skin or mucosal surfaces) that are not covered or protected by the condom.\n\nEpidemiologic studies seek to measure the protective effect of condoms by comparing risk of STD transmission among condom users with nonusers who are engaging in sexual intercourse. Accurately estimating the effectiveness of condoms for prevention of STDs, however, is methodologically challenging. Well-designed studies address key factors such as the extent to which condom use has been consistent and correct and whether infection identified is incident (i.e. new) or prevalent (i.e. pre-existing). Of particular importance, the study design should assure that the population being evaluated has documented exposure to the STD of interest during the period that condom use is being assessed. Although consistent and correct use of condoms is inherently difficult to measure, because such studies would involve observations of private behaviors, several published studies have demonstrated that failure to measure these factors properly tends to result in underestimation of condom effectiveness.\nEpidemiologic studies provide useful information regarding the magnitude of STD risk reduction associated with condom use. Extensive literature review confirms that the best epidemiologic studies of condom effectiveness address HIV infection. Numerous studies of discordant couples (where only one partner is infected) have shown consistent use of latex condoms to be highly effective for preventing sexually acquired HIV infection. Similarly, studies have shown that condom use reduces the risk of other STDs. However, the overall strength of the evidence regarding the effectiveness of condoms in reducing the risk of other STDs is not at the level of that for HIV, primarily because fewer methodologically sound and well-designed studies have been completed that address other STDs. Critical reviews of all studies, with both positive and negative findings (referenced here) point to the limitations in study design in some studies which result in underestimation of condom effectiveness; therefore, the true protective effect is likely to be greater than the effect observed.\n\nOverall, the preponderance of available epidemiologic studies have found that when used consistently and correctly, condoms are highly effective in preventing the sexual transmission of HIV infection and reduce the risk of other STDs\".\"\n\nThe effectiveness of condoms at preventing pregnancy can be assessed two ways. \"Perfect use\" or \"method\" effectiveness rates only include people who use condoms properly and consistently. \"Actual use\", or \"typical use\" effectiveness rates are of all condom users, including those who use condoms incorrectly or do not use condoms at every act of intercourse. Rates are generally presented for the first year of use. Most commonly the Pearl Index is used to calculate effectiveness rates, but some studies use decrement tables.\n\nThe typical use pregnancy rate among condom users varies depending on the population being studied, ranging from 10 to 18% per year. The perfect use pregnancy rate of condoms is 2% per year. Condoms may be combined with other forms of contraception (such as spermicide) for greater protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "159209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159209", "title": "Conduct disorder", "text": "Conduct disorder\n\nConduct disorder (CD) is a mental disorder diagnosed in childhood or adolescence that presents itself through a repetitive and persistent pattern of behavior in which the basic rights of others or major age-appropriate norms are violated. These behaviors are often referred to as \"antisocial behaviors.\" It is often seen as the precursor to antisocial personality disorder, which is per definition not diagnosed until the individual is 18 years old.\nConduct disorder is estimated to affect 51.1 million people globally as of 2013.\n\nOne of the symptoms of conduct disorder is a lower level of fear. Research performed on the impact of toddlers exposed to fear and distress shows that negative emotionality (fear) predicts toddlers' empathy-related response to distress. The findings support that if a caregiver is able to respond to infant cues, the toddler has a better ability to respond to fear and distress. If a child does not learn how to handle fear or distress the child will be more likely to lash out at other children. If the caregiver is able to provide therapeutic intervention teaching children at risk better empathy skills, the child will have a lower incident level of conduct disorder.\n\nCurrently, two possible developmental courses are thought to lead to conduct disorder. The first is known as the \"childhood-onset type\" and occurs when conduct disorder symptoms are present before the age of 10 years. This course is often linked to a more persistent life course and more pervasive behaviors. Specifically, children in this group have greater levels of ADHD symptoms, neuropsychological deficits, more academic problems, increased family dysfunction, and higher likelihood of aggression and violence.\n\nThere is debate among professionals regarding the validity and appropriateness of diagnosing young children with conduct disorder. The characteristics of the diagnosis are commonly seen in young children who are referred to mental health professionals. A premature diagnosis made in young children, and thus labeling an individual, may be inappropriate. It is also argued that some children may not in fact have conduct disorder, but are engaging in developmentally appropriate disruptive behavior.\n\nThe second developmental course is known as the \"adolescent-onset type\" and occurs when conduct disorder symptoms are present after the age of 10 years. Individuals with adolescent-onset conduct disorder exhibit less impairment than those with the childhood-onset type and are not characterized by similar psychopathology. At times, these individuals will remit in their deviant patterns before adulthood. Research has shown that there is a greater number of children with adolescent-onset conduct disorder than those with childhood-onset, suggesting that adolescent-onset conduct disorder is an exaggeration of developmental behaviors that are typically seen in adolescence, such as rebellion against authority figures and rejection of conventional values. However, this argument is not established and empirical research suggests that these subgroups are not as valid as once thought.\n\nIn addition to these two courses that are recognized by the DSM-IV-TR, there appears to be a relationship among oppositional defiant disorder, conduct disorder and antisocial personality disorder. Specifically, research has demonstrated continuity in the disorders such that conduct disorder is often diagnosed in children who have been previously diagnosed with oppositional defiant disorder, and most adults with antisocial personality disorder were previously diagnosed with conduct disorder. For example, some research has shown that 90% of children diagnosed with conduct disorder had a previous diagnosis of oppositional defiant disorder. Moreover, both disorders share relevant risk factors and disruptive behaviors, suggesting that oppositional defiant disorder is a developmental precursor and milder variant of conduct disorder. However, this is not to say that this trajectory occurs in all individuals. In fact, only about 25% of children with oppositional defiant disorder will receive a later diagnosis of conduct disorder. Correspondingly, there is an established link between conduct disorder and the diagnosis of antisocial personality disorder as an adult. In fact, the current diagnostic criteria for antisocial personality disorder require a conduct disorder diagnosis before the age of 15. However, again, only 25-40% of youths with conduct disorder will develop antisocial personality disorder. Nonetheless, many of the individuals who do not meet full criteria for antisocial personality disorder still exhibit a pattern of social and personal impairments or antisocial behaviors. These developmental trajectories suggest the existence of antisocial pathways in certain individuals, which have important implications for both research and treatment.\n\nChildren with conduct disorder have a high risk of developing other adjustment problems. Specifically, risk factors associated with conduct disorder and the effects of conduct disorder symptomatology on a child's psychosocial context have been linked to overlap with other psychological disorders. In this way, there seems to be reciprocal effects of comorbidity with certain disorders, leading to increased overall risk for these youth.\n\nADHD is the condition most commonly associated with conduct disorders, with approximately 25-30% of boys and 50-55% of girls with conduct disorder having a comorbid ADHD diagnosis. While it is unlikely that ADHD alone is a risk factor for developing conduct disorder, children who exhibit hyperactivity and impulsivity along with aggression is associated with the early onset of conduct problems. Moreover, children with comorbid conduct disorder and ADHD show more severe aggression.\n\nConduct disorder is also highly associated with both substance use and abuse. Children with conduct disorder have an earlier onset of substance use, as compared to their peers, and also tend to use multiple substances. However, substance use disorders themselves can directly or indirectly cause conduct disorder like traits in about half of adolescents who have a substance use disorder. As mentioned above, it seems that there is a transactional relationship between substance use and conduct problems, such that aggressive behaviors increase substance use, which leads to increased aggressive behavior.\n\nSubstance use in conduct disorder can lead to antisocial behavior in adulthood.\n\nWhile the cause of conduct disorder is complicated by an intricate interplay of biological and environmental factors, identifying underlying mechanisms is crucial for obtaining accurate assessment and implementing effective treatment. These mechanisms serve as the fundamental building blocks on which evidence-based treatments are developed. Despite the complexities, several domains have been implicated in the development of conduct disorder including cognitive variables, neurological factors, intraindividual factors, familial and peer influences, and wider contextual factors. These factors may also vary based on the age of onset, with different variables related to early (e.g., neurodevelopmental basis) and adolescent (e.g., social/peer relationships) onset.\n\nThe development of conduct disorder is not immutable or predetermined. A number of interactive risk and protective factors exist that can influence and change outcomes, and in most cases conduct disorder develops due to an interaction and gradual accumulation of risk factors. In addition to the risk factors identified under cause, several other variables place youth at increased risk for developing the disorder, including child physical abuse and prenatal alcohol abuse and maternal smoking during pregnancy. Protective factors have also been identified, and most notably include high IQ, being female, positive social orientations, good coping skills, and supportive family and community relationships.\n\nHowever, a mere correlation between a particular risk factor and a later developmental outcome (such as conduct disorder) cannot be taken as definitive evidence for a causal link. Co-variation between two variables can arise, for instance, if they represent age-specific expressions of similar underlying genetic factors. For example, the tendency to smoke during pregnancy (SDP) is subject to substantial genetic influence (D'Onofrio et al., 2007), as is conduct disorder. Thus, the genes that dispose the mother to SDP may also dispose the child to CD following mitotic transmission. Indeed, Rice et al. (2009) found that in mother-fetus pairs that were not genetically related (by virtue of in-vitro fertilisation), no link between SDP and later conduct problems arose. Thus, the distinction between causality and correlation is an important consideration.\n\nWhile language impairments are most common, approximately 20-25% of youth with conduct disorder have some type of learning disability. Although the relationship between the disorders is complex, it seems as if learning disabilities result from a combination of ADHD, a history of academic difficulty and failure, and long-standing socialization difficulties with family and peers. However, confounding variables, such as language deficits, SES disadvantage, or neurodevelopmental delay also need to be considered in this relationship, as they could help explain some of the association between conduct disorder and learning problems.\n\nIn terms of cognitive function, intelligence and cognitive deficits are common amongst youths with conduct disorder, particularly those with early-onset and have intelligence quotients (IQ) one standard deviation below the mean and severe deficits in verbal reasoning and executive function. Executive function difficulties may manifest in terms of one's ability to shift between tasks, plan as well as organize, and also inhibit a prepotent response. These findings hold true even after taking into account other variables such as socioeconomic status (SES), and education. However, IQ and executive function deficits are only one piece of the puzzle, and the magnitude of their influence is increased during transactional processes with environmental factors.\n\nBeyond difficulties in executive function, neurological research on youth with conduct disorder also demonstrate differences in brain anatomy and function that reflect the behaviors and mental anomalies associated in conduct disorder. Compared to normal controls, youths with early and adolescent onset of conduct disorder displayed reduced responses in brain regions associated with social behavior (i.e., amygdala, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, insula, and orbitofrontal cortex). In addition, youths with conduct disorder also demonstrated less responsiveness in the orbitofrontal regions of the brain during a stimulus-reinforcement and reward task. This provides a neural explanation for why youths with conduct disorder may be more likely to repeat poor decision making patterns. Lastly, youths with conduct disorder display a reduction in grey matter volume in the amygdala, which may account for the fear conditioning deficits. This reduction has been linked to difficulty processing social emotional stimuli, regardless of the age of onset. \nAside from the differences in neuroanatomy and activation patterns between youth with conduct disorder and controls, neurochemical profiles also vary between groups. Individuals with conduct disorder are characterized as having reduced serotonin and cortisol levels (e.g., reduced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis), as well as reduced autonomic nervous system (ANS) functioning. These reductions are associated with the inability to regulate mood and impulsive behaviors, weakened signals of anxiety and fear, and decreased self-esteem. Taken together, these findings may account for some of the variance in the psychological and behavioral patterns of youth with conduct disorder.\n\nAside from findings related to neurological and neurochemical profiles of youth with conduct disorder, intraindividual factors such as genetics may also be relevant. Having a sibling or parent with conduct disorder increases the likelihood of having the disorder, with a heritability rate of .53. There also tends to be a stronger genetic link for individuals with childhood-onset compared to adolescent onset. In addition, youth with conduct disorder also exhibit polymorphism in the monoamine oxidase A gene, low resting heart rates, and increased testosterone.\n\nElements of the family and social environment may also play a role in the development and maintenance of conduct disorder. For instance, antisocial behavior suggestive of conduct disorder is associated with single parent status, parental divorce, large family size, and young age of mothers. However, these factors are difficult to tease apart from other demographic variables that are known to be linked with conduct disorder, including poverty and low socioeconomic status. Family functioning and parent-child interactions also play a substantial role in childhood aggression and conduct disorder, with low levels of parental involvement, inadequate supervision, and unpredictable discipline practices reinforcing youth's defiant behaviors. \nPeer influences have also been related to the development of antisocial behavior in youth, particularly peer rejection in childhood and association with deviant peers. Peer rejection is not only a marker of a number of externalizing disorders, but also a contributing factor for the continuity of the disorders over time. Hinshaw and Lee (2003) also explain that association with deviant peers has been thought to influence the development of conduct disorder in two ways: 1) a “selection” process whereby youth with aggressive characteristics choose deviant friends, and 2) a “facilitation” process whereby deviant peer networks bolster patterns of antisocial behavior. In a separate study by Bonin and colleagues, parenting programs were shown to positively affect child behavior and reduce costs to the public sector.\n\nIn addition to the individual and social factors associated with conduct disorder, research has highlighted the importance of environment and context in youth with antisocial behavior. However, it is important to note that these are not static factors, but rather transactional in nature (e.g., individuals are influenced by and also influence their environment). For instance, neighborhood safety and exposure to violence has been studied in conjunction with conduct disorder, but it is not simply the case that youth with aggressive tendencies reside in violent neighborhoods. Transactional models propose that youth may resort to violence more often as a result of exposure to community violence, but their predisposition towards violence also contributes to neighborhood climate.\n\nConduct disorder is classified in the fourth edition of \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM). It is diagnosed based on a prolonged pattern of antisocial behaviour such as serious violation of laws and social norms and rules in people younger than the age of 18. Similar criteria are used in those over the age of 18 for the diagnosis of antisocial personality disorder. No proposed revisions for the main criteria of conduct disorder exist in the \"DSM-5\"; there is a recommendation by the work group to add an additional specifier for callous and unemotional traits. According to DSM-5 criteria for conduct disorder, there are four categories that could be present in the child's behavior: aggression to people and animals, destruction of property, deceitfulness or theft, and serious violation of rules.\n\nAlmost all adolescents who have a substance use disorder have conduct disorder-like traits, but after successful treatment of the substance use disorder, about half of these adolescents no longer display conduct disorder-like symptoms. Therefore, it is important to exclude a substance-induced cause and instead address the substance use disorder prior to making a psychiatric diagnosis of conduct disorder.\n\nThe most effective treatment for an individual with conduct disorder is one that seeks to integrate individual, school, and family settings. Additionally, treatment should also seek to address familial conflict such as marital discord or maternal depression.\n\nAbout 25-40% of youths diagnosed with conduct disorder qualify for a diagnosis of antisocial personality disorder when they reach adulthood. For those that do not develop ASPD, most still exhibit social dysfunction in adult life.\n\nConduct disorder is estimated to affect 51.1 million people globally as of 2013. The percentage of children affected by conduct disorder is estimates to range from 1-10%. However, among incarcerated youth or youth in juvenile detention facilities, rates of conduct disorder are between 23% and 87%.\n\nThe majority of research on conduct disorder suggests that there are a significantly greater number of males than females with the diagnosis, with some reports demonstrating a threefold to fourfold difference in prevalence. However, this difference may be somewhat biased by the diagnostic criteria which focus on more overt behaviors, such as aggression and fighting, which are more often exhibited by males. Females are more likely to be characterized by covert behaviors, such as stealing or running away. Moreover, conduct disorder in females is linked to several negative outcomes, such as antisocial personality disorder and early pregnancy, suggesting that sex differences in disruptive behaviors need to be more fully understood.\n\nFemales are more responsive to peer pressure including feelings of guilt than males.\n\nResearch on racial or cultural differences on the prevalence or presentation of conduct disorder is limited. However, it appears that African-American youth are more often diagnosed with conduct disorder, while Asian-American youth are about one-third as likely to develop conduct disorder when compared to White American youth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56729946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56729946", "title": "Constantin Rădulescu (footballer, born 1924)", "text": "Constantin Rădulescu (footballer, born 1924)\n\nConstantin \"Jumate\" Rădulescu (30 May 1924 – 2001), commonly known as Dr. Constantin Rădulescu, was a Romanian doctor, footballer and manager. As a footballer he played mainly as a midfielder.\n\nIn 2005, as a tribute to the work done in building and rising the club, CFR Cluj renamed its stadium as Stadionul Dr. Constantin Rădulescu.\n\nBorn in Bucharest, Rădulescu started his career at Olympia București then moved to Sportul Studențesc in 1942, for which he played in 8 matches in the Divizia A.\n\nIn 1943 the doctor signed with Universitatea Cluj, team that played at Sibiu in that period as a consequence of the territorial agreement known as the Second Vienna Award, by which Northern Transylvania became part of the Kingdom of Hungary as a result of World War II events. That team would be known as a symbol of the Romanian resistance in Transylvania. In 1949 he left \"U\" as a result of some misunderstandings and would declare later in his book, \"O viaţă închinată fotbalului\" (A life dedicated to football): \"Honestly, I split hard and regretfully from this wonderful team, which deserves any superlatives.\"\n\nAfter leaving \"U\", Constantin Rădulescu chose to continue his career at the rival CFR, known at the time as \"Locomotiva\", a small team that still did not seem to become the Universitatea's bitter rival. For CFR he played 6 years and retired in 1956, at only 31 years old due to a serious injury.\n\nAfter reitrement the doctor started immediately his football manager career at CFR and after some seasons in the Divizia B and Divizia C he signed with his first love, Universitatea Cluj, known at that time as \"Știința\", but only resisting one season in this position.\n\nIn the summer of 1963 he went back to CFR Cluj, known at that time as \"CSM Cluj\", and would begin the building of the team that later would become the bitter rival of Universitatea. In 1969 he succeeded the first Divizia A promotion in the history of CFR, managing to maintain the team on the first stage of the Romanian football until 1976 and at the end of 1972–73 season, a 5th place, the best ranking in history of the club until 2006. These performances are all the more incredible as the team has inadequate training, organizational and financial conditions, Rădulescu was telling in his book: \"No finances and players, no headquarters, secretary or organizer. So we started in the first league in 1969.\"\n\nAfter relegation he moved back to \"U\" for one season, then reaching lower league teams such as CUG Cluj or Sticla Arieșul Turda.\n\nIn 1992 at 68 years old the doctor returned to his creation, CFR, and managed the team for 3 years in Liga III, helping at the creation of the team that would promote a year later.\n\nAs a player, Rădulescu turned throw-ins into real corner kicks.\n\nAs a manager he is considered a real Alex Ferguson of CFR Cluj by former player Marius Bretan and former player Romică Petrescu said: \"Ajax and CFR used the same training methods. The training cycle was taken from Ajax, with two training sessions on Tuesday, two on Thursday, free on Wednesday. Everything was done counter-clockwise, after pulse, after tension.\"\n\nAugustin Ţegean, a CFR legend described him: \"A distinct character from all points of view: tough, severe, does not give up his principles. He always told us that he was only allowed to make fun because he was from Bucharest. He was a strong personality, we all respected him. We were afraid of him. [..] I can say he was using new methods for those times. He explained the game schemes on the board. The marks were made man-to-man. Everyone knew exactly what area to cover on the pitch. His methods were the most modern.\"\n\n\"He refused the national team so that he would not lose his doctor's position\", told the doctor's daughter, Ioana Stanca Gidro. In 1972, the Minister of Transport asked him to take over Rapid București, but he refused again, this time using a tertip, demanding that Rică Răducanu, a legend of Rapid, to be kicked out.\n\nRădulescu's daughter, Stanca Ioana Gidro is a lawyer and former dean of the Cluj-Napoca Bar, among other.\n\n"}
{"id": "28968716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28968716", "title": "Doctor Down Under", "text": "Doctor Down Under\n\nDoctor Down Under is an Australian television comedy series based on a set of books by Richard Gordon about the misadventures of a group of doctors. The series follows directly from its predecessor \"Doctor on the Go\", and was produced by the Seven Network in association with the Paul Dainty organization and broadcast in 1979.\n\nWriters for the \"Doctor Down Under\" episodes were Bernard McKenna, Jon Watkins and Bernie Sharp. The episodes were directed by William G. Stewart and John Eastway; all episodes were produced by Stewart.\n\nWhen Dr Duncan Waring and Dr Dick Stuart-Clark take up positions at St. Barnabas hospital in Sydney, they wreak havoc for the local medical staff, especially for Professor Beaumont, who is Professor of Surgery, and Dr Maurice Griffin, a surgeon with whom they share their office. The nurses at the hospital, however, find Dr Waring and Dr Stuart-Clark charming, as the two English doctors continue their pursuit of women.\n\n\n\n\nThe building used as the fictional St Barnabas Hospital is Hornsby Hospital, in Hornsby, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.\n\n\"Doctor Down Under\" was first aired in the United Kingdom on ITV in 1980. Granada TV was the first ITV Station to broadcast the series on Saturday 5 January. Southern TV, was the second to start the series from Tuesday 12 February 1980. Anglia started the series from April broadcasting at 15.15 slot. Nearly all the other ITV Stations pick up the series during between June - July 1980, but was not fully networked:\nATV and Westward broadcast it 17.15,\nYorkshire broadcast it 10.30,\nBorder, Grampian, Granada, HTV, STV, and Southern broadcast it 19.30.\n\nLast ITV area to broadcast the series was London. Thames Television did not broadcast the series but LWT started the series from January 1981.\n\n\"Doctor Down Under\", all 13 episodes have been released as a two Disc DVD set by Umbrella Entertainment in Australia (2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "52195083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52195083", "title": "Dorothy Walter Baruch", "text": "Dorothy Walter Baruch\n\nDorothy Walter Baruch (5 August 1899 – 4 September 1962) was an American psychologist and children's book author. She studied children's language acquisition and wrote about childhood development whilst also supplying fiction for children\n\nBaruch was born in San Francisco to Clarence and Rosalie (Neustadter) Walter. From 1917 to 1919, she attended Bryn Mawr College, and from 1919 to 1920 she attended the University of Southern California. She went on to attend Whittier College, and earned a M.E. in 1931. She received a PhD from Claremont Graduate University in 1937. She was the first person to receive a doctoral degree from Claremont College. In 1919 she married Herbert Baruch, of the Herbert M. Baruch Corporation, and they had two children named Herbert & Nancy. They divorced, and in 1946 she married Dr. Hyman Miller. In 1962, Dr. Baruch died in Los Angeles.\n\nBaruch was the founder and director the Grammercy Cooperative Nursery School, and also did groundbreaking experimental work in children's language acquisition at the Normandie Nursery School. In 1928, she worked with the National Council of Jewish Women and directed their parent education department. From 1930 to 1940, she was a professor of education at Whittier College. From 1937 to 1941, Baruch headed the public relations program for the National Association for Nursery Education. She opened a private practice in 1946 as a consulting psychologist, and continued to lecture on child psychology and education. She wrote many stories for children, including more than twenty books of fiction for children. She also wrote eleven nonfiction books, in addition to numerous psychological journal articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "53149914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53149914", "title": "Emma Gaudreau Casgrain", "text": "Emma Gaudreau Casgrain\n\nEmma Gaudreau Casgrain (b. 2 June 1861, Montmagny, Quebec, d. 1934 ) was the first woman to be licensed as a dentist in Canada.\n\nGaudreau, born in Montmagny, studied with the Ursulines.\n\nIn 1879, she married Henri-Edmond Casgrain (1846-1914), dental surgeon, inventor, alderman and first Quebec motorist.\n\nShe trained as a dentist under her husband, a dental surgeon who was 15 years her senior. In 1898, she became the first woman in Canada to be admitted to the profession of dentistry, when she graduated from the Ordre des dentistes du Québec and obtained her license. She practiced until 1920.\n\nShe and her husband had an office on Rue Saint-Jean from 1898.\n\nShe died in 1934. The city of Quebec placed an plaque on the house she lived at 180 Aberdeen Street.\n"}
{"id": "3878427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3878427", "title": "Environmental issues in Afghanistan", "text": "Environmental issues in Afghanistan\n\nEnvironmental issues in Afghanistan predate the political turmoil of the past few decades. Forests and wetlands have been depleted by centuries of grazing and farming, practices which have only increased with modern population growth. In Afghanistan, environmental conservation and economic concerns are not at odds; with 80% of the population dependent on herding or farming, the welfare of the environment is critical to the economic welfare of the people. In 2007, the World Health Organization released a report ranking Afghanistan as the lowest among non-African nations in deaths from environmental hazards.\n\nMuch of the population depends on forests for firewood and the revenue generated by export of pistachios and almonds, which grow in natural woodlands in the central and northern regions. The Badghis and Takhar provinces have lost more than 50% of pistachio woodland. During the conflicts of the past few decades, residents and the militias such as the Northern Alliance have used wood for fuel, and these militia forces have cleared trees which could have provided hiding places for ambushes from their opponents. Further, the use of the woodlands for grazing ground and the collection of nuts for export apparently prevent new pistachio trees from growing.\n\nDenser forests in the eastern Nangarhar, Kunar, Nuristan, and other provinces are at risk from timber harvesting by timber mafia. Although the logging is illegal, profits from exporting the timber to neighboring Pakistan are very high. The reason for this is that Pakistani government has its forests tightly protected so the timber mafia are busy cutting down trees in Afghanistan instead. The timber makes its way not only to Peshawar but also to Islamabad, Rawalpindi, and Lahore, where most of it is used to make expensive furnitures.\n\nAs forest cover decrease, the land becomes less and less productive, threatening the livelihood of the rural population and the floods are washing the agricultural lands and destroying the houses. Loss of vegetation also creates a higher risk of floods, which not only endanger the people, but cause soil erosion and decrease the amount of land available for agriculture. To tackle this problem, the Afghan government and agencies from a number of NATO states have teamed up over the past several years to turn Afghanistan green again by planting new trees.\n\nWith very little government infrastructure to discourage hunting, and habitat disappearing because of conflict and drought, much of the country's wildlife is at risk. In 2006, Afghanistan and the Wildlife Conservation Society began a three-year project to protect wildlife and habitats along the Wakhan Corridor and Central Plateau regions. \n\n\nLittle is known about the status of the salamander \"Batrachuperus mustersi\", which is found only in the Hindu Kush.\n\nThe primary threat to Afghanistan's water supply is the droughts, which created food shortages for millions in the recent past. The resulting agricultural crises between 1995 and 2001 have driven major migrations from rural to urban areas. \nIn response to drought, deep wells for irrigation have been drilled which decreased the under ground water level, further draining groundwater resources, which rely on rain for replenishment.\n\nBy 2003, about 99% of the Sistan wetlands were dry, another result of continued drought and lack of water management. The wetlands, an important habitat for breeding and migrant waterfowl including the dalmatian pelican and the marbled teal, have provided water for agricultural irrigation for at least 5,000 years. They are fed by the Helmand River, which ran at 98% below average in drought years 2001-2003. As in other areas of the country, the loss of natural vegetation resulted in soil erosion; here, sandstorms submerged as many as 100 villages by 2003.\n\nSome of the major water reservoirs and dams include the following:\n\nUrban populations have swelled in the past several years. Since 2002, over 5 million former refugees living in Pakistan and Iran have returned home to Afghanistan. Many of these settled in the capital Kabul, which also include migrants that have come from drought-ravaged rural areas.\n\nIn 2008, the Afghan government alleged that Pakistan had dumped nuclear waste in southern Afghanistan during the Taliban rule (1994-2001). Farooq Wardak, Afghan Parliamentary affairs minister, said the government was setting up a commission to investigate the matter. Afghan President Hamid Karzai recently announced that his administration will investigate the matter.\n\nIn 2002, the United Nations Environment Programme found that a lack of waste management systems was creating dangerous conditions in several urban areas. In Kabul's districts 5 and 6, household and medical waste was discarded on streets. Human waste was contained in open sewers, which flowed into the Kabul River and contaminated the city’s drinking water.\n\nUrban dumpsites are used in lieu of managed landfills in Kabul, Kandahar and Herat, often without protection of nearby rivers and groundwater supplies. Medical waste from hospitals is disposed in the dumpsites with the rest of the cities’ waste, contaminating water and air with bacteria and viruses.\n\nLack of sewage management is not unique to Kabul. In urban areas, open sewers are common while wastewater treatment is not. Much of the urban water supply is contaminated by Escherichia coli and other bacteria.\n\nOil refineries are another source of water contamination. In Herat and Mazar-e-Sharif, crude oil spills and leaks are uncontained and unsafe levels of hydrocarbons reach residential water supplies.\n\nAir pollution does not constitute a major problem in Afghanistan, but its reliance on inexpensive energy has created some issues. Most vehicles run on diesel fuel, and household energy often rely on burning wood and other materials. As a result, air pollution in urban areas is visible and may pose health issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "17625193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17625193", "title": "European Sleep Apnea Database", "text": "European Sleep Apnea Database\n\nThe European Sleep Apnea Database (ESADA) (also referred to with spelling European Sleep Apnoea Database and European Sleep Apnoea Cohort) is a collaboration between European sleep centres as part of the European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) Action B 26. The main contractor of the project is the Sahlgrenska Academy at Gothenburg University, Institute of Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, and the co-ordinator is Jan Hedner, MD, PhD, Professor of Sleep Medicine.\n\nThe book \"Clinical Genomics: Practical Applications for Adult Patient Care\" said ESADA was an example initiatives which afford an \"excellent opportunity\" for future collaborative research into genetic aspects of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). Both the European Respiratory Society and the European Sleep Research Society have noted the impact for research cooperative efforts of the database resource.\n\nIn 2006 the European Sleep Apnea Database (ESADA) began as an initiative between 27 European sleep study facilities to combine information and compile it into one shared resource. It was formed as part of the European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) Action B 26. In addition to financial help from COST, the initiative received assistance from companies Philips Respironics and ResMed. The database storing the association's resource information is located in Gothenburg, Sweden. The group's goal was twofold: to serve as a reference guide to those researching sleep disorders, and to compile information about how different caregivers treat patients suffering from sleep apnea.\n\n5,103 patients were tracked from March 2007 to August 2009. Data collected on these patients included symptoms suffered, medication, medical history, and sleep data, all inputted into an online format for further analysis. Database researchers reported on their methodology and results in 2010 to the American Thoracic Society, on their observed findings regarding percentages of metabolic and cardiovascular changes related to patients with obstructive sleep apnea. The 2010 research resulted from collaboration between 22 study centres across 16 countries in Europe involving 27 researchers. The primary participants who presented to the American Thoracic Society included researchers from: Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden; Technion – Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel; National TB & Lung Diseases Research Institute, Warsaw, Poland; CNR Institute of Biomedicine and Molecular, Palermo, Italy; Instituto Auxologico Italiano, Ospedale San Luca, Milan, Italy; and St. Vincent University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. Their analysis was published in 2010 in the \"American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine\".\n\nIn 2011 there were 22 sleep disorder centres in Europe involved in the collaboration. The group published research in 2011 analyzing the percentage of patients suffering from sleep apnea that have obesity. By 2012 the database maintained information on over 12,500 patients in Europe; it also contained DNA samples of 2,600 individuals. ESADA was represented in 2012 at the 21st annual meeting of the European Sleep Research Society in Paris, France, and was one of four European Sleep Research Networks that held a session at the event. Pierre Escourrou and Fadia Jilwan wrote a 2012 article for the \"European Respiratory Journal\" after studying data from ESADA involving 8,228 total patients from 23 different facilities. They analyzed whether polysomnography was a good measure for hypopnea and sleep apnea. Researchers from the department of pulmonary diseases at Turku University Hospital in Turku, Finland compared variations between sleep centres in the ESADA database and published their findings in the \"European Respiratory Journal\". They looked at the traits of 5,103 patients from 22 centres. They reported on the average age of patients in the database, and the prevalence by region of performing sleep study with cardiorespiratory polygraphy.\n\nThe database added a centre in Hamburg, Germany in 2013 managed by physician Holger Hein. The group's annual meeting in 2013 was held in Edinburgh, United Kingdom and was run by Renata Riha. By March 2013, there were approximately 13,000 total patients being studied in the program, with about 200 additional patients being added into the database each month. Analysis published by researchers from Italy and Sweden in September 2013 in the \"European Respiratory Journal\" analyzed if there was a correlation between renal function problems and obstructive sleep apnea. They analyzed data from 17 countries in Europe representing 24 sleep centres and 8,112 total patients. They tested whether patients of different types of demographics with other existing health problems had a change in probability of kidney function problems, if they concurrently suffered from obstructive sleep apnea.\n\nIn 2014, researchers released data studying 5,294 patients from the database compared prevalence of sleep apnea with increased blood sugar. Their results were published in the \"European Respiratory Journal\". They studied glycated hemoglobin levels in the patients and compared them with measured severity in sleep apnea. The researchers analyzed glycated hemoglobin levels among a class of individuals with less severe sleep apnea and those with a higher determined amount of sleep apnea problems. As of 20 March 2014 the database included information on a total of 15,956 patients. A 2014 article in the \"European Respiratory Journal\" drawing from the ESADA analyzed whether lack of adequate oxygen during a night's sleep was an indicator for high blood pressure.\n\nIn the 2013 book \"Clinical Genomics: Practical Applications for Adult Patient Care\", ESADA is said to be an example of the kind of initiative which affords an \"excellent opportunity\" for future collaborative research into genetic aspects of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). Both the European Respiratory Society and the European Sleep Research Society have noted the impact for research cooperative efforts of the database resource.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29975268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29975268", "title": "Flexible barge", "text": "Flexible barge\n\nA flexible barge is a fabric barge (non-rigid) for the transportation of bulk fresh water or other liquid bulk items such as chemicals or oil.\n\nOne such barge is called the Dracone Barge invented in 1956. Other similar devices are the Spragg Bag invented in the 1980s, the water bag proposed by Nordic Water Supply in the late 1990s and the more recent REFRESH modular waterbag, developed in the 2010s. Terry Spragg of Manhattan Beach, California, builds flexible fabric barges for the transportation of bulk fresh water and is the reason why his product is referred to as the \"Spragg Bag.\" In the 1970s Spragg was a promoter of icebergs as a large source of fresh water, but soon realized this was impractical. He then put his skills into developing the waterbag technology starting in the 1980s. Spragg has worked on and perfected this over the last twenty years with his associates. The first field test of his waterbag was in December 1990. The waterbag was long and it contained approximately of fresh water. It was towed from the Port Angeles harbor in the state of Washington. Another test was done in 1996 with a voyage from Port Angeles to Seattle, Washington. This test ended on April 29 when the fabric of one of the two bags under tow developed a tear. Spragg says that his next goal is to run another test voyage demonstration between Northern and Southern California and a demonstration of the waterbag technology in the Middle East as well as around the world. There are various reasons why it has been difficult to gain support for demonstrating the viability of waterbag technology in California and around the world. Spragg claims when two waterbags pass underneath the Golden Gate Bridge for the first time in history the media will let the whole world know about it. A novel, \"Water, War, and Peace,\" has been completed that details the solutions waterbag technology offers to the complex political problems surrounding water issues throughout the Middle East, the United States, and the world.\n\nThe Norwegian company Nordic Water Supply developed a 10.800 m bag in 1997 under an agreement with the Turkish government to transport freshwater to Northern Cyprus. Within two years at least 7 million m of water had to be delivered annually at a cost of €2.7M per year, with volumes growing over time, but the actual transport only amounted to 4 million m in four years and the contract was discontinued by Turkish authorities. As a result, NWS went out of business and was de-listed from the Oslo Stock Exchange in 2003. NSW's waterbag technology was acquired by the Monohakobi Institute of Technology in Japan.\n\nThe REFRESH waterbag was developed by a consortium of companies and research institutes from Greece, Spain, Italy, Turkey and the Czech Republic within two European FP7 projects, REFRESH (running from 2010 to 2012) and the follow-up XXL-REFRESH (running from 2013 to 2015). The first project was focused on validation of the concept of modular waterbag; it developed a small scale prototype of 200 m capacity, tested in Greece in 2012. The second project was focused on scale-up and partial redesign of the REFRESH system. At the end of the second project the REFRESH waterbag concept reached commercial scale and a 2500 m system made of five 500m modules was tested offshore Spain in 2015. The length of the waterbag was 60 m long.\n\nThe REFRESH concept is different from concepts of waterbag proposed earlier, based on huge monolithic containers (as the one proposed by Nordic Water Supply) or \"trains\" of smaller containers each one being sealed in itself (as the Spragg bag). The REFRESH waterbag is made of a series of modules, each one being a cylinder open at both bases, joined by watertight zippers. This makes it possible to perform all \"dry\" operations on ground at the level of single modules, overcoming the handling problems of monolithic containers and improves the behaviour in navigation with respect to the \"trains\" of connected bags.\n\nThe 1995 associated Spragg patents (#5,413,065 and #5,488,921) indicate that the inventions relate to a flexible fabric barge technology or combination of several barges made of a rubber polyurethane material. The main body portion of a flexible fabric barge is cylindrical in shape. The barge can be used by itself or as several connected flexible fabric barges that can be towed through the open ocean under extreme conditions. The patents further explain that the goal of Spragg's inventions are a practical water delivery system of fresh drinkable water that could be delivered to dry regions worldwide that have a shortage of potable water.\n\nOne of the flexible fabric barge concepts aims at an economical delivery system for fresh water that would be considerably cheaper than desalination plants, rigid ships, tanker trucks, conventional barges, aqueducts or pipeline transport. Waterbags are more economical and better for the environment than desalination of the seas and oceans.\n\nThe flexible fabric barge is a plastic container that is buoyant. It can be linked together with an attachment system to other flexible fabric barges to make a \"train.\" The \"waterbags\", which are sometimes referred to as balloons or bladders, are made up of a vinyl lining inside a stronger material net. It is a type of \"fabric water pipeline\" when several are strung together for transport of liquids by tugboat through seas or open oceans to remote locations.\n\nZippers play an important part in extending the capacity of the waterbag beyond what is practically achievable by a single textile piece. The Spragg and REFRESH concepts both feature prominently zippers, albeit with a fundamental difference in its function.\n\nIn the Spragg design, large waterbags are connected together like boxcars in a \"train\" fashion to increase the amount of liquids delivered at a time. It is estimated that the flexible barges could be as large as 14 meters in diameter and 150 meters in length, holding up to 17,000 cubic meters of fresh water or any other transportable liquid. Theoretically as many as 50 to 60 \"waterbags\" could be connected to one another and towed, although such a test has not been done to date. \nEngineers suggest that the fabric barge can hold a \"train\" of of liquids.\nA zipper coupler system is 10 times stronger than what is pulled by a 4,300 hp tug. Laborde Marine estimates a 4,300 horsepower tug with a bollard pull of 110,000 pounds can pull a \"train\" of fifty or so flexible barges weighing up to 1,300,000 tons. The \"train\" speed would be about 3 knots. This is over of fresh water or other liquid per trip.\n\nIn the REFRESH design, the container itself is assembled on shore starting from planar cuts of fabric. Zippers run all along the perimeter of the fabric and make it possible to join an indefinite number of modules. Since each module is not closed by itself, zippers need to be watertight in order to ensure that no seawater leaks in.\n\nThe basic invention is a device for the delivery of huge amounts of fresh water (700,000 to in each bag) at one time in a hostile wind and wave environment typical of oceans and large seas. Since freshwater is lighter than seawater the filled \"bladders\" (as they are sometimes referred to) float on top, similarly to icebergs, with little above the surface and most below the surface. Fresh water can be taken from rivers just before it discharges into salty seas or oceans, which then would not interfere with salmon spawning.\n\nThe associated coupler and zipper patent describes that to be economically feasible there should be several such flexible barges towed at one time. The greater the volume of water that can be delivered per trip, the better the economics. This string of barges would typically consist of barges in size from 25 to in diameter and 200 to in length each.\n\nThe unique characteristic of the Spragg Bag system is not the large volume of water in each bag, but what is called the world's strongest zipper (produced by Italian company Ziplast) that allows connection of several bags together in long trains. The large connecting zipper can be operated manually or by remote control with radio signals. The string of such flexible fabric \"waterbags\" may be coupled to a barge via a reinforced fabric nose cone where a tow line is attached.\n\nThe REFRESH scheme is enabled by a specialty zipper, again developed by Ziplast, that uses a completely different tooth engagement design able to keep the strength of the original \"Spragg\" zipper while adding watertightness. Tests performed by the Spanish research centre have confirmed that the zipper is able to stay watertight even when in tension.\n\nEach \"waterbag\" is generally filled to 80-90% capacity (so that it is not stiff and remains able to adapt to deformations when turning) and is flat across its top.\n\nOne San Francisco area reporter writes that waterbag technology would provide economical fresh water delivery to the Monterey Peninsula district and a solution to the shortage of fresh water in the area. He reports that the average family of four uses one acre-foot of water a year. This costs over $1000 for delivery using conventional methods, however this same amount of water delivered by Spragg Bags would cost about 30% less. Another newspaper reporter explains that towing Spragg Waterbags is environmentally friendly and is more economical than carrying water in ships or water tanker trucks or even using conventional rigid pipelines. An article in the July issue of ECONOMIST Magazine in 2008 explains that worldwide there is enough water for all, however most is often in the wrong place at the wrong time and it is just too expensive to transport.\n\nWaterbag technology offers an easy and inexpensive solution to the problem of today's expensive conventional water transportation. It eliminates the difficulty of transporting water long distances by using the ocean as the means of transport. Waterbags considerably lower the capital costs and operating costs of moving fresh water from place to place. If a train was able to only move one or two box cars at a time, rather than in a train of dozens of boxcars at a time, it would not be very efficient and extremely expensive. Linking waterbags into \"trains\" of strings of waterbags and moving them through the ocean increases the economics of water transportation making it a viable practical option.\n\nThe cost to transport water 300 to through the ocean, based on deliveries of to , is estimated to be between $350 to $450 per acre foot, depending on the length of the voyage and the amount of water delivered per trip. Increasing the amount of water delivered per day in each waterbag train will help to significantly reduce the cost of the water delivered. Once the reliability of the waterbag delivery system has proven its economics and reliability it will just be a matter of adding more waterbags to the trains, and more trains to the system in order to increase the amount of water delivered to selected locations, while also reducing the cost of the water delivered. Based on the increasing reliability of the waterbag delivery system over time, it should be possible to be able to economically deliver 100,000's of acre feet per year to many coastal locations around the world.\n\nAccording to the inventor of the Spragg bag, the total cost of delivering fresh water down the California coast by his waterbag technology for a distance of from British Columbia to Monterey would cost about $966 per acre-foot per year. Keith Spain in a study for a Master Of Arts then shows in an analysis that it would save the residents of the Monterey Peninsula some $1,134 per-acre foot otherwise using a desalination plant. This is a savings of over $19 million per year for the Monterey taxpayers. This number assumes a usage of approximately per year (17,000 X $1,134 = $19,278,000 savings).\n\nOne application seen is in the Middle East where large quantities of fresh water that are available in the Turkey region could be delivered to other places around the Mediterranean Sea that have an extreme shortage of drinkable fresh water, like Israel and Gaza. Spragg believes that delivering fresh drinking water to water-poor nations can promote world peace.\n\nIsraeli President Shimon Peres has written a letter in support of implementing a demonstration of Spragg Bag technology in the Mediterranean Sea as a tool for helping to bring Peace to the Middle East. In this letter President Peres states, \"The draft of WATER, WAR AND PEACE written as a novel is in my view an original approach to highlight this grave problem and its solutions, that will pave the path to a better and more peaceful region. Your efforts to embark on a demonstration voyage to enlighten us all, both regarding the technological viability as well as cost, will surely contribute to meet the critical dilemma.\"\n\nHe also points out that using waterbags towed through the Mediterranean Sea would be much more economical than transporting water through pipeline systems. This view is shared by the REFRESH consortium.\n\nWaterbags have been proposed to be used for emergency purposes in order to link the Gulf Cooperation Counsel countries' desalination plants all along the Persian Gulf coast.\n\nAnother application is the regular delivery of fresh water over long distance routes.\n\nProposed routes include from the state of Washington to dry regions of Southern California, from Mad River in Northern California to the San Francisco area and from Southern Chile to Atacama. Other applications are that it:\n\n\nSpragg has proposed to deliver water from the Manavgat River in Turkey across the Mediterranean Sea to Israel and the Gaza Strip, which has an extreme shortage of water, which presently is being reviewed by the World Bank.\n\nSpragg has proposed to the Australian government that bulk fresh drinking water using his waterbag technology could be applied to urban water supplies that have a shortage. It would establish an economically sound new industry for bulk fresh water transport. An analysis of the economic and environmental advantages for waterbag technology by using the ocean currents from the Tully River to Brisbane, Queensland has been completed.\nOn the Gold Coast the Tugan desalination plant is being built to supply 120 megaliters of drinking water daily at a cost of approximately $1.2 billion. Operation of the Tugan desalination plant will produce 235,000 tons of CO greenhouse gases annually. Preliminary cost estimates indicate that using waterbag technology to deliver the same amount of water from the Tully river to the Gold Coast may be 30 times less expensive than desalination, and that waterbag technology may emit 60 times less greenhouse gas. These figures suggest that waterbag technology would deliver water for much less cost than the proposed pipeline from the Burdekin River to Brisbane which is projected to cost approximately $7.5 billion for infrastructure and about $250 million for annual operation.\n\nSpragg has proposed to the White House the idea of a peace offering in the Middle East by supplying 20 to 30 of his waterbags with fresh water and transport them from Turkey to the Palestinians and Israelis. The technology could also be used for the collection of Australia's factory waste water outputs, storm water, and sewerage for processing and reuse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45346682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45346682", "title": "Ghana Medical and Dental Council", "text": "Ghana Medical and Dental Council\n\nThe Ghana Medical and Dental Council is an agency of the Ghana government responsible for regulating the standards of training and practice of medicine and dentistry in Ghana. It is located in Accra the capital city of Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "42707047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42707047", "title": "Gustatory technology", "text": "Gustatory technology\n\nGustatory technology is the engineering discipline dealing with gustatory representation.\n\nVirtual taste refers to a taste experience generated by a digital taste simulator. Electrodes are used to simulate the taste and feel of real food in the mouth. In 2012 a team of researchers at the National University of Singapore developed the digital lollipop, an electronic device capable of transmitting four major taste sensations (salty, sour, sweet and bitter) to the tongue. In 2016 the same team created a square with thermoelectric elements to simulate the sensation of sweetness through changes in temperature. If this system is implemented in mugs or drinking glasses, it could make low-sugar drinks taste sweeter helping people reduce sugar intake. \nA team from the University of Tokyo created a device that simulates the different textures of food through electricity. The device uses electrodes place on the masseter muscle (a jaw muscle used for chewing) and simulates the texture by changing this muscle frequency. For example, a higher frequency gives the food a harder texture.\n"}
{"id": "3255903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3255903", "title": "Harold McCluskey", "text": "Harold McCluskey\n\nHarold R. McCluskey (July 12, 1912 – August 17, 1987) was a chemical operations technician at the Hanford Plutonium Finishing Plant located in Washington State who is known for having survived, on August 30, 1976, exposure to the highest dose of radiation from americium ever recorded. He became known as the 'Atomic Man'.\n\nOn August 30, 1976, McCluskey, then 64, was exposed to 500 times the occupational standard for americium-241, a plutonium byproduct, as the result of an accident in a glove box resulting in an explosion. As nitric acid was added to a column containing an ion-exchange resin and americium, the chemicals exploded, blowing out the leaded glass of the glove box. Harold was exposed to at least 37 MBq of americium-241 and nitric acid. He was hit on the right side by a mixture of nitric acid, broken glass, americium and ion exchange resin. \n\nHarold was helped from the room, had his clothing removed and was washed with water at the scene. He was transferred to a decontamination facility where he was washed again and given a dose of one gram of Ca-DTPA on arrival. For the first week he had two baths per day, then he had one bath per day for two months. For the first five days he was treated with the calcium complex of DTPA and then after that for four years he was treated with a total of 583 grams of the zinc complex of DTPA. The treatment reduced the systemic deposition to 500 kBq instead of the 19 MBq which he would otherwise retained inside his body.\n\nBecause of risk of exposure to other individuals, he was placed in isolation in the Hanford Emergency Decontamination Facility for five months and underwent chelation therapy using DTPA by Dr. Bryce Breitenstein. By 1977, his body's radiation count had fallen by about 80 percent. When McCluskey returned home, friends and church members avoided him. His minister finally had to tell people it was safe to be around him.\n\nAlthough McCluskey largely avoided the media, Breitenstein said McCluskey sometimes accompanied him when he gave lectures on the case. \"He really wanted people to know what happened as long as it is rationally presented,\" Breitenstein said. Several times after the explosion, McCluskey spoke in favor of developing nuclear power, saying he saw his injuries as the result of \"purely an industrial accident.\"\nHe died on August 17, 1987, of coronary artery disease. He had this disease before the accident, and a post mortem examination found no signs of cancer. At the time of his death he had 55 kBq of americium in his soft tissues (27.9 kBq in the liver), 470 kBq in the mineral surfaces of the bones and bone marrow contained 20 kBq of americium.\n\n"}
{"id": "33222575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33222575", "title": "Harold Pollack", "text": "Harold Pollack\n\nHarold Pollack is an American professor at the University of Chicago who has been appointed to two Institute of Medicine committees. His research has focused on public health and health policy. At the University of Chicago, he has chaired the Center for Health Administration Studies. A special correspondent for the \"New Republic\" during 2009 and 2010, he writes frequently about public policy for a variety of national publications. Pollack is a frequent contributor to Healthinsurance.org, where he has conducted interviews with other prominent health policy bloggers, including Jonathan Cohn.\n\nPollack went to Princeton University for his undergraduate education. He received his masters and doctoral degrees in Public Policy from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. After attending Harvard, he was a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation fellow at Yale University before teaching at the University of Michigan School of Public Health and then the University of Chicago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "660960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660960", "title": "Hashimoto's thyroiditis", "text": "Hashimoto's thyroiditis\n\nHashimoto's thyroiditis, also known as chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis and Hashimoto's disease, is an autoimmune disease in which the thyroid gland is gradually destroyed. Early on there may be no symptoms. Over time the thyroid may enlarge forming a painless goiter. Some people eventually develop hypothyroidism with its accompanying weight gain, feeling tired, constipation, depression, and general pains. After many years the thyroid typically shrinks in size. Potential complications include thyroid lymphoma.\nHashimoto's thyroiditis is thought to be due to a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Risk factors include a family history of the condition and having another autoimmune disease. Diagnosis is confirmed with blood tests for TSH, T4, and anti-thyroid autoantibodies. Other conditions that can produce similar symptoms include Graves’ disease and nontoxic nodular goiter.\nHashimoto's thyroiditis is typically treated with levothyroxine. If hypothyroidism is not present some may recommend no treatment while others may treat to try to reduce the size of the goiter. Those affected should avoid eating large amounts of iodine; however, sufficient iodine is required especially during pregnancy. Surgery is rarely required to treat the goiter.\nHashimoto's thyroiditis affects about 5% of the population at some point in their life. It typically begins between the ages of 30 and 50 and is much more common in women than men. Rates of disease appear to be increasing. It was first described by the Japanese physician Hakaru Hashimoto in 1912. In 1957 it was recognized as an autoimmune disorder.\n\nThere are many symptoms that are attributed to Hashimoto's thyroiditis or Hashimoto's disease. The most common symptoms include the following: fatigue, weight gain, pale or puffy face, feeling cold, joint and muscle pain, constipation, dry and thinning hair, heavy menstrual flow or irregular periods, depression, panic disorder, a slowed heart rate, and problems getting pregnant and maintaining pregnancy.\n\nHashimoto’s disease is about seven times more common in women than in men. It can occur in teens and young women, but more commonly shows up in middle age, particularly for men. People who develop Hashimoto’s disease often have family members who have thyroid or other autoimmune diseases, and sometimes have other autoimmune diseases themselves.\n\nThe thyroid gland may become firm, large, and lobulated in Hashimoto's thyroiditis, but changes in the thyroid can also be nonpalpable. Enlargement of the thyroid is due to lymphocytic infiltration and fibrosis rather than tissue hypertrophy. Physiologically, antibodies against thyroid peroxidase (TPO) (also called TPOAb) and/or thyroglobulin cause gradual destruction of follicles in the thyroid gland. Accordingly, the disease can be detected clinically by looking for these antibodies in the blood. It is also characterized by invasion of the thyroid tissue by leukocytes, mainly T-lymphocytes. A rare but serious complication is thyroid lymphoma, generally the B-cell type, non-Hodgkin lymphoma.\n\nThe strong genetic component is borne out in studies on monozygotic twins, with a concordance of 38-55%, with an even higher concordance of circulating thyroid antibodies not in relation to clinical presentation (up to 80% in monozygotic twins). Neither result was seen to a similar degree in dizygotic twins, offering strong favour for high genetic aetiology.\n\nHashimoto's thyroiditis is associated with \"CTLA-4\" (\"Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte Antigen-4\") gene polymorphisms. CTLA-4 downregulates., i.e. transmits an inhibitory signal to T cells so reduced functioning is associated with increased T-lymphocyte activity. A family history of thyroid disorders is common, with the \"HLA-DR5\" gene most strongly implicated conferring a relative risk of 3 in the UK.\n\nHaving other autoimmune diseases is a risk factor to develop Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, and the opposite is also true. Autoimmune diseases most commonly associated to Hashimoto’s thyroiditis include celiac disease, type 1 diabetes, vitiligo, and alopecia.\n\nPreventable environmental factors, including high iodine intake, selenium deficiency, as well as infectious diseases and certain drugs, have been implicated in the development of autoimmune thyroid disease in genetically predisposed individuals.\n\nThe genes implicated vary in different ethnic groups and the incidence is increased in people with chromosomal disorders, including Turner, Down, and Klinefelter syndromes usually associated with autoantibodies against thyroglobulin and thyroperoxidase. Progressive depletion of these cells as the cytotoxic immune response leads to higher degrees of primary hypothyroidism, presenting with low T3/T4 levels, and compensatory elevations of TSH.\n\nThere are multiple suggested mechanisms by which the pathology of Hashimoto's thyroiditis develops.\n\nVarious autoantibodies may be present against thyroid peroxidase, thyroglobulin and TSH receptors, although a small percentage of people may have none of these antibodies present. As indicated in various twin studies a percentage of the population may also have these antibodies without developing Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Nevertheless, antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity is a substantial factor behind the apoptotic fall-out of Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Activation of cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CD8+ T-cells) in response to cell-mediated immune response affected by helper T-lymphocytes (CD4+ T-cells) is central to thyrocyte destruction. As is characteristic of type IV hypersensitivities, recruitment of macrophages is another effect of the helper T-lymphocyte activation, with Th1 axis lymphocytes producing inflammatory cytokines within thyroid tissue to further macrophage activation and migration into the thyroid gland for direct effect.\n\nGross morphological changes within the thyroid are seen in the general enlargement which is far more locally nodular and irregular than more diffuse patterns (such as that of hyperthyroidism). While the capsule is intact and the gland itself is still distinct from surrounding tissue, microscopic examination can provide a more revealing indication of the level of damage.\n\nHistologically, the hypersensitivity is seen as diffuse parenchymal infiltration by lymphocytes, particularly plasma B-cells, which can often be seen as secondary lymphoid follicles (germinal centers, not to be confused with the normally present colloid-filled follicles that constitute the thyroid). Atrophy of the colloid bodies is lined by Hürthle cells, cells with intensely eosinophilic, granular cytoplasm, a metaplasia from the normal cuboidal cells that constitute the lining of the thyroid follicles. Severe thyroid atrophy presents often with denser fibrotic bands of collagen that remains within the confines of the thyroid capsule.\n\nDiagnosis is usually made by detecting elevated levels of anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies (TPOAb) in the serum, but seronegative (without circulating autoantibodies) thyroiditis is also possible.\n\nGiven the relatively non-specific symptoms of initial hypothyroidism, Hashimoto's thyroiditis is often misdiagnosed as depression, cyclothymia, PMS, chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia and, less frequently, as erectile dysfunction or an anxiety disorder. On gross examination, there is often presentation of a hard goiter that is not painful to the touch; other symptoms seen with hypothyroidism, such as periorbital myxedema, depend on the current state of progression of the response, especially given the usually gradual development of clinically relevant hypothyroidism. Testing for thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), free T3, free T4, and the anti-thyroglobulin antibodies (anti-Tg), anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies (anti-TPO, or TPOAb) and anti-microsomal antibodies can help obtain an accurate diagnosis. Earlier assessment of the person may present with elevated levels of thyroglobulin owing to transient thyrotoxicosis, as inflammation within the thyroid causes damage to the integrity of thyroid follicle storage of thyroglobulin; TSH secretion from the anterior pituitary increases in response to a decrease in negative feedback inhibition secondary to decreased serum thyroid hormones. Typically T4 is the preferred thyroid hormone test for hypothyroidism. This exposure of the body to substantial amounts of previously isolated thyroid enzymes is thought to contribute to the exacerbation of tolerance breakdown, giving rise to the more pronounced symptoms seen later in the disease. Lymphocytic infiltration of the thyrocyte-associated tissues often leads to the histologically significant finding of germinal center development within the thyroid gland.\n\nHashimoto's when presenting as mania is known as Prasad's syndrome after Ashok Prasad, the psychiatrist who first described it.\n\nHypothyroidism caused by Hashimoto's thyroiditis is treated with thyroid hormone replacement agents such as levothyroxine, triiodothyronine or desiccated thyroid extract. A tablet taken once a day generally keeps the thyroid hormone levels normal. In most cases, the treatment needs to be taken for the rest of the person's life. In the event that hypothyroidism is caused by Hashimoto's thyroiditis, it may be recommended that the TSH levels be kept under 3.0 mIU/L.\n\nOvert, symptomatic thyroid dysfunction is the most common complication, with about 5% of persons with subclinical hypothyroidism and chronic autoimmune thyroiditis progressing to thyroid failure every year. Transient periods of thyrotoxicosis (over-activity of the thyroid) sometimes occur, and rarely the illness may progress to full hyperthyroid Graves' disease with active orbitopathy (bulging, inflamed eyes). Rare cases of fibrous autoimmune thyroiditis present with severe dyspnea (shortness of breath) and dysphagia (difficulty swallowing), resembling aggressive thyroid tumors – but such symptoms always improve with surgery or corticosteroid therapy. Primary thyroid B cell lymphoma affects fewer than one in a thousand persons, and it is more likely to affect those with long-standing autoimmune thyroiditis.\n\nThis disorder is believed to be the most common cause of primary hypothyroidism in North America; as a cause of non-endemic goiter, it is among the most common. Hashimoto's thyroiditis affects about 5% of the population at some point in their life. About 1 to 1.5 in 1000 people have this disease at any point in time. It occurs between eight and fifteen times more often in women than in men. Though it may occur at any age, including in children, it is most often observed in women between 30 and 60 years of age. It is more common in regions of high iodine dietary intake, and among people who are genetically susceptible.\n\nAlso known as Hashimoto's disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis is named after the Japanese physician Hakaru Hashimoto (1881−1934) of the medical school at Kyushu University, who first described the symptoms of persons with \"struma lymphomatosa\", an intense infiltration of lymphocytes within the thyroid, in 1912 in a German publication. The report gave new insight into a condition (hypothyroidism) more commonly seen in areas of iodine deficiency that was occurring in the developed world, and without evident causation by dietary deficiency.\n\nIn 1957 it was recognized as an autoimmune disorder and was the first organ-specific one identified.\n\nPregnant women who are positive for Hashimoto's thyroiditis may have decreased thyroid function or the gland may fail entirely. If a woman is TPOAb-positive, clinicians can inform her of the risks for themselves and their infants if they go untreated. \"Thyroid peroxidase antibodies (TPOAb) are detected in 10% of pregnant women,\" which presents risks to those pregnancies. Women who have low thyroid function that has not been stabilized are at greater risk of having an infant with: low birth weight, neonatal respiratory distress, hydrocephalus, hypospadias, miscarriage, and preterm delivery. The embryo transplantion rate and successful pregnancy outcomes are improved when Hashimoto's is treated. Recommendations are to only treat pregnant women who are TPOAb-positive throughout the entirety of their pregnancies and to screen all pregnant women for thyroid levels. Close cooperation between the endocrinologist and obstetrician benefits the woman and the infant. The Endocrine Society recommends screening in pregnant women who are considered high-risk for thyroid autoimmune disease.\n\nThyroid peroxides antibodies testing is recommended for women who have ever been pregnant regardless of pregnancy outcome. \"...[P]revious pregnancy plays a major role in development of autoimmune overt hypothyroidism in premenopausal women, and the number of previous pregnancies should be taken into account when evaluating the risk of hypothyroidism in a young women [\"sic\"].\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46810902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46810902", "title": "Health Care for Women International", "text": "Health Care for Women International\n\nHealth Care for Women International is a monthly peer-reviewed healthcare journal covering health care and related topics that concern women around the globe.\n\nIt is the official journal for Women's Health Issues and it is published by Taylor & Francis. Its editor-in-chief is Eleanor Krassen Covan (University of North Carolina at Wilmington).\n\nThe journal was originally titled \"Issues in Health Care of Women\" (1978–1983).\n\nThe editor-in-chief from 1983 to 2001 was Phyllis Stern (University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing).\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 0.950, ranking it 20th out of 40 journals in the category \"Women's Studies\" and 115th out of 153 journals in the category \"Public, Environmental & Occupational Health\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59151589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59151589", "title": "Health in Seychelles", "text": "Health in Seychelles\n\nSeychelles has reached the epidemiological shift from communicable to noncommunicable diseases. Most communicable and infectious diseases have been controlled or eradicated. In 2014 the World Health Organization reported that the country was on target to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and had addressed some of the social determinants of health. \n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook:\n\nThe infant mortality rate was 15.53 deaths per 1,000 live births in 2005\nThere is free access to primary healthcare for all citizens but to access tertiary health services people travel to Kenya or South Africa and pay. There are specialized services on Mahé. There are some small private medical clinics on Mahé.\n\nIn 2014 there was about one doctor per 780 people and one nurse for 400 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "21249078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21249078", "title": "Healthcare in Ukraine", "text": "Healthcare in Ukraine\n\nThe Healthcare in Ukraine is part of universal health care system being a successor of the Soviet healthcare system. The Ministry of Healthcare implements the state policy in the country in the field of medicine and healthcare.\n\nAs of March 2009 the Ukrainian government planned on reforming the health care system, by the creation of a national network of family doctors and improvements in the medical emergency services. Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko wanted (in November 2009) to start introducing a public healthcare system based on health insurance in the spring of 2010.\n\nFurther reform was promised by Health Minister Alexander Kvitashvili in 2014 but proposals failed to make political progress and he offered his resignation - which was not accepted. State funding for hospitals cover only the electricity and meager staff salaries, leading to widespread bribery. Even hot water is a problem. Charitable donations are needed to buy even basic medicines or fuel needed to visit patients.\n\nAlthough some companies (in their collective agreement) supply their employees insurance medicine Ukraine doesn't. But it is making a switch to insurance medicine, a transformation that will start in 2017 and will last until 2020.\n\nUkrainian healthcare should be free to citizens according to law, but in practice patients contribute to the cost of most aspects of healthcare.\n\n"}
{"id": "28341777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28341777", "title": "Illegal drug trade in Guatemala", "text": "Illegal drug trade in Guatemala\n\nThe illegal drug trade in Guatemala includes trans-shipment of cocaine to the United States. According to some reports, Mexican drug cartels such as Sinaloa have also established poppy growing operations there. There is a reported relationship between the Mexican Los Zetas cartel and the Guatemalan Kaibiles military force. \n\nGuatemala has become one of the larger drug smuggling countries in Latin America precisely because drug cartels in neighboring states have offered their support. Cartels in Colombia have sent upwards of 48 tons worth of cocaine to Guatemala and the cartels have shared techniques for moving cocaine unnoticed, such as mixing cocaine with fruit pulp. Additionally, Mexican cartels have actively cooperated with Guatemalan drug dealers because Mexico has become the primary destination for smuggled drugs. This relationship has encompassed most major drugs, including the selling of raw opium gum and, eventually, the processed poppy, which carries a higher price per kilo for Guatemalan growers. Belizean support has allowed inhabitants in Guatemala to start growing marijuana as well, which has become popular for both consumption and smuggling to Mexico.\n\nWithin Guatemala, the domestic police has experienced difficulty combating the growing and selling of drugs and combating the inefficiency and corruption in the police force. In the 1980s, there was a low police officer to citizen ratio and the state poorly trained police officers and offered low wages, which contributed to low morale. Consequently, bribes became a common method for circumventing anti-drug police efforts and countering successful arrests. Additionally, police forces in many areas were involved with the drug cartels, offering assistance, making money, and acquiring additional local power and influence. The low quality of policing and different forms of corruption lead to low public support and faith in the ability of the police and has led to the public’s unwillingness to cooperate and decision to start lynch mobs.\n\nGeography in Guatemala has created both an ideal climate for growing drugs and divided regions for smuggling drugs.  The vast amounts of mountains and forests that divide the country make governing and policing more difficult. In the mountains located in the provinces of San Marcos and Huehuetenango, inhabitants are able to grow different types of drugs, primarily opium. Additionally, these provinces are along the northern border of Guatemala which connects the opium fields to Mexico, the primary destination of the majority of drugs that are grown or smuggled through Guatemala. Due to the close proximity with Mexico, Guatemalan and Mexican police have experienced difficulty combating the fields as the two governments must respect the other’s sovereign borders and do not have complete authority in the area. The northern forests in Guatemala have allowed marijuana growers and smugglers to maneuver away from authorities as well. Through the support of growers in Belize, people in Guatemala were able to acquire seeds and connections to start growing and exporting their product to Mexico, while avoiding the more restrictive laws and effort by the government in Belize.\n\nGuatemala connects Honduras and Mexico along common drug routes between Central America and the United States. Its long, unpatrolled coastline and sparse jungles make it a popular landing point for boats and planes carrying drugs from South America, while its borders are understaffed and ill-equipped to fully exert customs controls.\n\n\"According to a December 2008 report from the U.S. National Drug Intelligence Center, less than 1 percent of the estimated 600 to 700 tons of cocaine that departed South America for the United States in 2007 transited Central America. The rest, for the most part, passed through the Caribbean Sea or Pacific Ocean en route to Mexico. Since then, land-based shipment of cocaine through Central America appears to have ballooned. Earlier this month, U.S. Ambassador to Guatemala Stephen McFarland estimated in an interview with a Guatemalan newspaper that cocaine now passes through that country at a rate of approximately 300 to 400 tons per year.\"\n\nAccording to the International Crisis Group, “the presence of Mexican cartels fighting on Guatemalan territory demonstrated how important and competitive the eastern region had become for the transnational cocaine trade”.\n\nA 2009 STRATFOR report corroborates: \"Mexican drug traffickers appear to operate much more extensively than in any other Central American country; this may be due, at least in part, to the relationship between Los Zetas and the Guatemalan Kaibiles. Beyond the apparently more-established Zeta smuggling operations there, several recent drug seizures — including an enormous 1,800-acre poppy plantation attributed to the Sinaloa cartel — make it clear that other Mexican drug-trafficking organizations are currently active inside Guatemala.\"\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "8051124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8051124", "title": "Institute of Tropical Medicine Antwerp", "text": "Institute of Tropical Medicine Antwerp\n\nThe Institute of Tropical Medicine () previously known as Prince Leopold Institute of Tropical Medicine is located in Antwerp, Belgium. ITM is one of the world's leading institutes for training and research in tropical medicine and the organisation of health care in developing countries. It also delivers outpatient, clinical and preventive services in tropical pathologies and sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nThe institute has a strong reputation in biomedical, clinical and public health research, advanced education, travel medicine and care for HIV and Sexually Transmitted Infections, as well as capacity-building in developing countries. Peter Piot and colleagues at the institute were the first to demonstrate that AIDS was a tropical African disease. ITM has been recognized by the World Health Organization as a reference centre for AIDS research. ITM also is a national and international reference centre for a series of diseases and pathogens (such as the Ebola virus).\n\nAt ITM, some 450 scientists and technicians do research on pathogens, patients and populations. Yearly, an average of 500 medical doctors, nurses and scientists follow advanced courses; some 120 young researchers are completing their PhD. Each year, the medical services handle around 35 000 consultations. The website www.travelhealth.be services more than 100 000 visitors a year.\n\nMore than 75% of its publications appear in the top-25% of journals in its field. (Scimago World Ranking, 2010)\n\nITM also carries out an extensive capacity strengthening program in developing countries, and is part of a large network of institutions in Africa, South America and Asia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30942606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30942606", "title": "James Yearsley", "text": "James Yearsley\n\nJames Yearsley (1805–1869), aural surgeon, was born in 1805 to a north-country family settled in Cheltenham.\n\nAdopting a medical career, he became a pupil of Ralph Fletcher of Gloucester, (a surgeon of considerable eminence in his profession, and of some note as a collector of pictures), and later married his daughter. Yearsley moved to London, where he entered himself a student at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. He was admitted a member of the Royal College of Surgeons of England and a licentiate of the Society of Apothecaries in 1827; later in life he added to these qualifications the licentiateship of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh (1860), and he graduated M.D. at St. Andrews University in 1862.\n\nAfter practising for a short time in Cheltenham, he established himself about 1829 as a general practitioner at Ross in Herefordshire. He removed to London about 1837, and started to practise as an aural surgeon. He opened an institution for the relief of diseases of the ear in Sackville Street, Piccadilly, and in 1846 he became surgeon to the Royal Society of Musicians. He founded a hospital specialising in the diseases of the ear, the Metropolitan Ear Nose and Throat Hospital in Kensington.\n\nYearsley deserves recognition as one who assisted in bringing aural surgery out of the degraded position it held at the beginning of the 19th century. He insisted strongly upon the connection between deafness and disease of the naso-pharynx. At first he practised freely the removal of the tonsils as an aid to recovery from deafness, but in later life experience led him to modify his views, and he performed tonsillectomy much less often. Yearsley learnt, too, the value of an artificial tympanum in the relief of certain forms of deafness, and he very justly recommended the use of the simplest form of film in preference to the more complex tympana employed by some of his contemporaries.\n\nYearsley was less scientific than either George Pilcher or Joseph Toynbee, and, though original in his views and bold in expressing his opinions, he too often spoilt his cause by his controversial temperament.\n\nHe was the originator and proprietor of the Medical Circular from 1852 until it was consolidated with the Dublin Medical Press in January 1866. Jointly with two other members of his profession, Dr. Tyler Smith and Dr. Forbes Benignus Winslow, he founded the ‘'Medical Directory'’, becoming its sole proprietor on the retirement of his two partners.\n\nYearsley's works were: \n\nYearsley died at his house in Savile Row, London, on 9 July 1869, and was buried at Sutton Bonnington, in Nottinghamshire.\n\nA memorial plaque on his former clinic at 32 Sackville Street, Piccadilly was unveiled on 27 May 1994 which reads \"Westminster City Council Dr. James Yearsley, MD, MRCS, LRCP, 1805 - 1869, founded the Metropolitan Ear Institute here in 1838. Mr. Ronnie Yearsley.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "378426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378426", "title": "Kela (Finnish institution)", "text": "Kela (Finnish institution)\n\nKela, abbr. from , (Fpa), (SII), is a Finnish government agency in charge of settling benefits under national social security programs. Kela was founded in 1937 to handle retirement pay. In the 1980s and 1990s, its role was expanded to handle other fields like child benefits, unemployment benefits, sickness benefits, health insurance and student financial aid.\n\nKela is funded from compulsory payments to some of the administered schemes (24 % 2015) and by taxation. Coverage under the schemes is given to all permanent residents of Finland. \"Kansaneläkelaitos/Folkpensionsanstalten\" literally means \"People's Pension Institute\", reflecting its original function as the national provider of retirement benefits.\n\nIn May 2008, a Kela e-service apparently disclosed confidential medical insurance information to the wrong client, and subsequently Kela took that service offline.\n"}
{"id": "38934936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38934936", "title": "MD–MS program", "text": "MD–MS program\n\nAn MD–MS program is a dual degree graduate school program awarding both a Doctor of Medicine (MD) and a Master of Science (MS) degree. Post-graduate diploma holders and Diplomate of National Board (India) candidates can upgrade to an MD-MS degree through opportunities such as post-graduate–up-gradation programs.\n\nAn MD-MS Program is a tutor-based program in which students are trained by research professionals on modern innovations in the healthcare industry. The MD-MS degree is designed for people who intend to pursue clinical practice and want to develop their research skills in a related area of engineering. It is well suited for students who desire a better understanding of the types of technology they may employ as practicing physicians. The MD-MS degree program provides a funded research experience in engineering that is expected to lead to research publishing. The program also provides practice in engineering design and analysis. The entire course is developed to be mentor-based, enabling the students to be coached by experts attached to a recommended medical center. Most of the courses take place online, via distance learning, leaving professionals free to study without leaving their jobs.\n\n\nRequirements for the combined MD and master's degrees are equivalent to those of the separate degrees of the Doctor of Medicine of the School of Medicine and the specific Master of Science degree at a particular campus. The dual degree program can usually be completed within five to six years.\n\nEvaluation of the course is assessed by the guide and university through thesis/dissertation submitted by the student based on their research project done.\n\nBiomedical Informatics (BMI) applies statistical techniques and technologies to the medical and health sciences.\n\nEpidemiology involves the study of disease — and the predisposing conditions for disease — among human populations in all parts of the world, with an emphasis on approaches to improving levels of health. The MS Program in Epidemiology is presented by the Department of Health Research and Policy (HRP) at the School of Medicine.\n\nHealth Services Research (HSR) is concerned with the analysis of health policy in the public and private sectors. The MS Program in HSR is part of the Department of Health Research and Policy (HRP) at the School of Medicine.\n\nMasters of Medicine (MOM) includes experience in clinical medicine with a view to foster translational research. Students who pursue the MS in Medicine while engaged in their doctoral programs will be highly knowledgeable about human biology and disease, and thus more able to translate scientific discoveries into useful medical advances.\n\nMasters of Human Genetics and Genetic Counseling is a program that trains students to understand the molecular, clinical and psychological implications of differences in the human genome, and to translate these intricacies to health care professionals, laboratory researchers and patients/families. Graduates of this program will be eligible for board certification by the American Board of Genetic Counselling.\n\n"}
{"id": "5551141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5551141", "title": "Master of Pharmacy", "text": "Master of Pharmacy\n\nThe Master of Sciences of Pharmacy (MPharm) is the standard master's degree program in Pharmacy. It is the oldest honourable Diploma (Degree) authorized from the European Faculties of Pharmacy as it takes four years to complete. It is based on a credit system higher than the normal Bachelor of Pharmacy degree (BPharm) and the American Pharmaceutical Diploma, Doctor of Pharmacy,(PharmD). The Faculty is a member of the Association of European Faculties of Pharmacy and its graduates meet all the requirements for the profession as defined by the European Union. In the initial three years students revise and broaden their knowledge of elementary natural and medical subjects to the level required for understanding specific subjects from the field of Pharmacy. Students attend lectures and seminars and take part in practical pharmacy placements. During the last year of study they work on their thesis. The programme is concluded by defending the thesis and taking the final state examination. Then the students are awarded the master's degree (abbreviated Mgr.). The study programme is compliant with EU directive 2005/36/EC.\nGraduates awarded the master's degree can later sit for a thorough state exam including an advanced thesis defence. After passing they are awarded the \"Testing Board\" degree (abbreviated EPhB).\nGraduates can apply for postgraduate after studying several branches of Pharmacy in the five accredited years. After defending their dissertation, submit their researches in their selected branches of Pharmacy and passing the final state examination they are awarded the Ph.D. degree.\nThe Faculty closely cooperates with industry and runs a Faculty Pharmacy on the premises. It cooperates with private and public pharmacies in the country where students conduct their placements and also with the Chamber of Pharmacists and the Association of Pharmacy owners.\n\nIn Finland, \"proviisori\" is an academic degree awarded after completing the post graduate programme in pharmacy. The degree is equivalent to English term \"Master of Pharmacy\". Proviisori degree is required in order to be a druggist in Finland. Pharmacy is taught in University of Helsinki and University of Eastern Finland.\n\nThe University of Malta, Department of Pharmacy within the Faculty of Medicine & Surgery, offers a Master of Pharmacy (M.Pharm.) course for students who have successfully completed the Bachelor of Science (Hons.) in Pharmaceutical Science. The M.Pharm is a requirement in obtaining the warrant to practice as a Pharmacist in Malta.\n\nIn Poland, \"magister farmacji\" (abbreviated to \"mgr farmacji\") is an academic degree awarded following five and a half years of academic study in pharmacy. Completing a dissertation in this area is a prerequisite. The degree is equivalent to American Pharm.D.\n\n\nLiverpool John Moores University\n\n\n\n\nIn Ireland, the M.Pharm is awarded after five years: four years of undergraduate study leading to a BSc.Pharm and a one-year placement in a community or hospital pharmacy setting.\n\n\n\nIn the United Kingdom, MPharm is an undergraduate academic degree awarded following four years academic study in pharmacy. The degree is awarded by all of the schools of pharmacy in the UK and superseded the BSc (Pharmacy) or BPharm degree when the length of the undergraduate pharmacy course was increased from three to four years in 1997—partly due to EU harmonisation of pharmacy training and partly to extend the scope of the undergraduate degree.\n\nThe MPharm is the only qualification in the UK which leads to professional registration as a pharmacist. MPharm programs are accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) in England, Scotland and Wales, and Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (PSNI) in Northern Ireland.\nAspiring pharmacists in the UK qualify by first completing this degree, then undertaking a year of pre-registration training. On successful completion of this training, and after passing the pre-registration exam, they become registered pharmacists. In Great Britain it used to be the case, until September 2010, that with registration they became members of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, able to use the postnominal letters \"MRPharmS\" (Member of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain). However, the RPS split off its regulatory role in September 2010 and the new regulatory body, the GPhC, does not grant postnominals to its registrants. MRPharmS is still granted by the RPS to its member but no longer has an automatic link to current registration as a pharmacist. In Northern Ireland regulation has not been removed from the PSNI and therefore registration as a pharmacist and membership of the PSNI are still simultaneous, granting use of the postnominals \"MPSNI\" (Member of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland).\n\nMaster of Pharmacy (MPharma) in India is offered as post graduate (graduate) course after completion of BPharma degree. The MPharma course is normally of two years duration.In some universities it is one-year research and one year theory examination, while some offers M Pharm by research completely leading to doctorate degree. The course focuses on specialisation in the field of pharmacy. The MPharma courses are offered by pharmacy colleges affiliated to uniee leading to entry into the pharmacy profession. In 2004, the University of Newcastle introduced a two-year postgraduate MPharm coursework program, to provide an alternative means to gain qualification for registration to practice as a pharmacist for graduates with a bachelor's degree in any science or medical science that includes the required prerequisites. The MPharm degree is not an advanced follow-up degree for pharmacists. Following the commencement of the MPharm program at the University of Newcastle, other universities across Australia also began offering MPharm coursework programs. At present, either the BPharm or MPharm degree is accepted for registration as a practicing pharmacist.\n\nSee list of pharmacy schools: Australia for a listing of institutions offering the MPharm degree.\n\nWith the success and popularity of the MPharm coursework degrees, research MPharm degrees have now been redesignated Master of Pharmacy (Clinical) (abbreviated MPharm (Clinical)) or Master of Clinical Pharmacy (abbreviated MClinPharm). This degree offers advanced training to graduates of a Bachelor of Pharmacy, and does not by itself meet the requirements for registration as a pharmacist.\nThese are the following colleges imparting M Pharma in India in various specialties like Industrial Pharmacy, Bulk Drugs, Pharmacology, Pharmaceutics, Pharmacognosy, Pharmaceutical Biotechnology etc.:\n\n1. Department of Pharmacy, University of Development Alternative (UODA) \n\n2. Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Dhaka \n\n3. Department of Pharmacy, Jagannath University \n\n4. Department of Pharmacy, State University of Bangladesh \n\nThe post graduate M.Phil program is offered in Pakistan instead of Master of pharmacy in four disciplines, namely, Pharmaceutics, Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Pharmacology and Pharmacognosy. A new discipline Pharmacy Practice is also introduced by some universities.\n\nIn Kenya, the School of Pharmacy, University of Nairobi, offers three Master of Pharmacy degrees:\nThese are 2-year Master's degree programs that have both taught and research components.\n"}
{"id": "8766752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8766752", "title": "Meat riots", "text": "Meat riots\n\nThe Meat riot (Spanish: \"Huelga de la carne\"), in the Chilean capital Santiago in October 1905, was a violent riot that originated from a demonstration against the tariffs applied to the cattle imports from Argentina. \n\nThe establishment of the Buenos Aires-Mendoza railroad in 1885 ended the lengthy and costly trade with carts that connected these two regions of Argentina and facilitated cattle exports from the pampas to Chile, albeit in the last portion of the route the cattle had to walk over the high mountain passes of the Andes. These imports resulted in a lowering of meat prices in Chile.\n\nIn 1887 \"Sociedad Nacional de la Agricultura\" (National Agriculture Society), a landowners organization, proposed to put a tariff on the Argentine cattle that Chile was importing from Argentina. In 1888 the attempt to pass this as a law in the Chamber of Deputies was frustrated by several urban workers social organizations, the Democrat Party, and mine owners that protested against it.\n\n\"Sociedad Nacional de la Agricultura\" continued to support the implementation of a tariff and in 1897 it was passed as a law in congress, principally as part of a protectionist law package. The package was supported by the Democrat Party, but in 1898 and 1899 it called for the abolition of the tariff returning to its old stance. In 1902 a series of demonstrations against the tariff took place. Scholar Benjamin S. Orlove suggest that it was the rise of staple food prices that led to renewed protests against the tariff in 1905. This would have been because high staple prices would have led people to have less money available for buying meat. The prices of meat themselves remained stable in the period preceding the Meat riots.\n\nIn September 1905, members of the Democrat Party and several mutual aid societies of Santiago met to form an umbrella organization named \"Comité Central de Abolición del Impuesto al Ganado\" (Central Committee for the Abolishment of the Livestock Tariff). The new organisation called for a demonstration on Sunday October 22. State authorities approved a demonstration route. The plans for the demonstration spread through word of mouth and support from the centrist Catholic newspaper \"El Chileno\".\n\nAt the place and time of meeting in Santiago on Sunday, it has been estimated that fifty thousand people gathered. Another estimate puts the number at twelve thousand of which at least 6000 belonged to the working class. Considering that Santiago at the time had 320 000 inhabitants, the demonstration was huge. Apart from those that gathered in Santiago demonstrations were held all over Chile.\n\nFrom the meeting point at La Alameda, a demonstration group that included ten neighborhood associations plus 41 trade unions and mutual aid societies marched to Palacio de La Moneda where they planned to deliver a petition to president Germán Riesco.\n\nUpon arrival to La Moneda it was found that president Germán Riesco was not there. A minor group of protesters were told by government representative that the president was at his residence a few blocks away. This minority group marched to the residence where protest leaders were allowed to enter to deliver the petition document and to chat with the president. The chat went over to lengthy discussions. Meanwhile, the majority of the protesters were unaware of the meeting and thought that the president had turned his back on them by refusing a meeting. A rumour saying that the president had left Santiago spread. In this atmosphere violence erupted. Demonstrators attacked \"buildings and public structure\" and police attacked the demonstrators.\n\nPolice stations, private residences, telegraph and telephone lines were attacked and stores were pillaged. At 4-5 o'clock most workers retired from the city centre. By the same time the looting intensified.\n\n"}
{"id": "11996107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11996107", "title": "Medical education in the Philippines", "text": "Medical education in the Philippines\n\nMedical education in Philippines is principally offered and developed by accredited and government recognized medical schools in the country.\n\nThe Philippine medical schools are graduate schools offering the Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree. The M.D. is a four-year professional degree program which qualifies the degree holder to take the licensure exam for medical doctors in the Philippines.\n\nBefore applying to any medical school, a candidate must earn a bachelor's degree with credits in certain required subjects. The most common pre-medical degrees include biology, psychology, pharmacy, medical technology, biochemistry, microbiology, nursing, and physical therapy.\n\nIn addition, a candidate must take the National Medical Admission Test (NMAT), the national entrance exam for all medical schools in the Philippines.\n\nThe Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) is a four-year professional degree program dealing with medical theories, practices, technologies, and problem solving.\n\nThe completion of the degree program with one-year postgraduate internship qualifies a candidate to take the licensure exam for medical doctors in the Philippines.\n\nMedical schools in the country are regulated by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) of the Philippines, and accredited by the Association of Philippine Medical Colleges.\n\nThe Board of Medicine of the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) of the Philippines. has released a list of the outstanding colleges of medicine in the Philippines with percentage passing above the national average (62.71%) based on the Physician Licensure Examinations. They were recognized in the oath-taking of the new physicians held at the PICC Plenary Hall in Pasay City on September 15, 2016.\n\nThere are 38 APMC member schools and colleges as of 2009.\n\nThe licensure exams for physicians (board exam for doctors) are administered by the Philippine Board of Medicine, a professional regulatory body under the general control and supervision of the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) of the Philippines.\n\nAfter graduation from medical school and passing the board exam for doctors, a Filipino doctor is labelled as a \"general medical practitioner\". He may seek further training by way of graduate programs in medicine (i.e., Master of Public Health, Master of Health Services Administration, etc.), or by way of medical specialization.\n\nGraduate programs are offered in some medical schools in the country and abroad. Candidates usually attend lectures and practical exercises in an academic environment and in laboratory settings. The program may require the presentation and defense of a graduate-level thesis, an independent research project, or supervised professional practice as a final graduation requirement. The entire academic program may last from one year to five years, depending on the requirements of the curriculum; the demands of the institution; and the academic load, availability, and dedication of the individual student.\n\nMedical specialization usually takes three to six years of residency training in accredited hospitals and clinics, and the taking of diplomate board examinations conducted by a board of medical specialists in a particular field (i.e., Philippine Board of Psychiatry, Philippine Board of Pediatrics, Philippine Board of Surgery, Philippine Specialty Board of Internal Medicine, Philippine Academy of Family Physicians Board of Examiners etc.).\nAfter specialization, the doctor may practice his field of specialty or pursue one to three years of subspecialty training / fellowship such as\nA) Pediatrics and internal medicine: cardiology, pulmonology, gastroenterology, endocrinology, infectious disease, oncology etc.\nB) Surgery: thoracic and cardiovascular, pediatric, transplant, trauma, minimally invasive, oncology\nC) Anesthesiology: pain, cardiovascular\nD) OB Gyn: oncology, ultrasound, reproductive endocrinology and infertility\nStraight programs for subspecialties are also offered : urology, orthopedics, plastic and reconstructive, neurosurgery\nMedical practice in the Philippines is developed, monitored, and regulated by the Philippine Medical Association (PMA), the largest organization of medical doctors in the country. Other medical and health societies co-exist to pursue more specific interests in the medical field (i.e. Philippine Academy of Family Physicians, Philippine Dermatological Society, Philippine Cancer Society, Philippine Pediatric Society, Philippine Association for the Study of Overweight and Obesity, etc.).\n\nThe Department of Health, a cabinet-level department under the Office of the President of the Philippines, exercises general monitoring supervisory powers over medical practitioners and allied health personnel in the Philippines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6306595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6306595", "title": "Ministry of Health and Welfare (South Korea)", "text": "Ministry of Health and Welfare (South Korea)\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Welfare (MOHW previously MW, ) is a branch of the government of South Korea. The headquarters is in Sejong City. Previously the headquarters were on floors 6 through 12 of the Hyundai Building in Jongno District, Seoul, when they were the Ministry for Health, Welfare and Family Affairs.\n\nOn December 23, 1994, the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (보건사회부) changed their name to Ministry of Health and Welfare. On February 29, 2008, the ministry merged the National Youth Commission, Prime Minister's Office of Korea, the Family Affairs from Ministry of Gender Equality and Family and Centre on Measures for Bipolarization and Livelihood, Ministry of Planning and Budget to become the \"Ministry for Health, Welfare and Family Affairs\" (보건복지가족부).\n\nHowever, on March 19, 2010, the Ministry was reorganized to become the \"Ministry of Health and Welfare\" while transferring their responsibilities of overseeing youth and family affairs to Ministry of Gender Equality and Family. However, the Ministry of Health and Welfare still governs Children's affairs.\n\nThe main tasks include health care and quarantine, compulsory administration, pharmacist administration, health insurance, basic living insurance, welfare support, social security and social service policies, and population policy to cope with low birth rate and aging child welfare.\n\n"}
{"id": "22373489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22373489", "title": "Mozart and smallpox", "text": "Mozart and smallpox\n\nIn 1767, the 11-year-old composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was struck by smallpox. Like all smallpox victims, he was at serious risk of dying, but he survived the disease. This article discusses smallpox as it existed in Mozart's time, the decision taken in 1764 by Mozart's father Leopold not to inoculate his children against the disease, the course of Mozart's illness, and the aftermath.\n\nSmallpox in 18th-century Europe was a devastating disease, recurring in frequent epidemics and killing or disfiguring millions of people. The 18th century was probably a particularly terrible time for smallpox in Europe: urbanization had increased crowding, making it easier for the disease to spread; yet effective protection from smallpox through a smallpox vaccine was discovered only at the end of the century (see below).\n\nThe disease was a terrible one for its victims. Ian and Jenifer Glynn write:\nSo what was it like? As children, we were told it was like chickenpox but worse. In fact it is not related to chickenpox, and it was unimaginably worse. In an unvaccinated population, something like 10–30 percent of all patients with smallpox would be expected to die. And dying was not easy; smallpox was, as Macaulay wrote, 'the most terrible of all the ministers of death.'\n\nThose who survived smallpox did not always survive intact; it frequently inflicted blindness on its survivors. The survival rate was particularly low for children.\n\nThe physical appearance of the disease was frightening to patients and to their caretakers: the patient's skin became covered with large, bulging pustules, which often left conspicuous pitting on the skin of patients who survived the disease.\n\nMedicine had made only slight progress against the disease in Mozart's time. Around the second decade of the 18th century the method of inoculation, which had originated in Asia, reached European countries. Inoculation was not the same as the vaccination which later succeeded in eradicating the disease; rather, an inoculated person was treated with live smallpox virus, taken from pustules of the mildest variety of smallpox that could be found.\n\nInoculation offered immunity to smallpox, but the procedure carried a definite risk that the inoculated person could die from smallpox as a result. Thus, many parents felt that they would rather do nothing, risking future smallpox arriving at random, rather than carry out a deliberate act that might well kill their children immediately.\n\nAs Mozart biographer Ruth Halliwell points out, it is in this context that we must interpret a letter sent by Leopold Mozart on 22 February 1764 to his landlord and friend Lorenz Hagenauer concerning smallpox:\nThey are trying to persuade me to let my boy be inoculated with smallpox. But as I have expressed sufficiently clearly my aversion to this impertinence they are leaving me in peace. Here inoculation is the general fashion. But for my part I leave the matter to the grace of God. It depends on His grace whether He wishes to keep this prodigy of nature in this world in which He placed it or to take it to Himself.\n\nFrom the modern perspective—with most children now made safe from several terrible diseases by vaccination—it is easy to make the superficial interpretation that Leopold was acting foolishly, relying on divine will when direct action was available that would have helped his children. However, since in Leopold's day it was not firmly established that inoculation was beneficial, his remarks can be seen to be more of appeal to religion to resolve what must have seemed an impossible dilemma.\n\nThe Mozart family (Wolfgang, his father Leopold, his mother Anna Maria, and his older sister Nannerl) left their home in Salzburg for Vienna on 11 September, 1767. They had been there before, exhibiting the children's talents, in 1762; by this time they had completed their \"Grand Tour\" of Europe, performing in England, France, and elsewhere, and hoped to achieve even greater recognition (and income) in the Imperial capital. The forthcoming marriage of the 16-year-old Archduchess Maria Josepha, daughter of Empress Maria Theresa, scheduled for October 14, promised many festivities and thus opportunities for visiting musicians.\n\nUnfortunately, there was an outbreak of smallpox in Vienna at the time. On 28 May of that year, Emperor Joseph II had lost his second wife Maria Josepha to the disease, and his mother Maria Theresa also caught it (she survived). The imperial bride-to-be Maria Josepha caught the disease in October and died of it on the 15th, the day after she had been scheduled to be married.\n\nThe Mozarts were renting rooms in the home of the goldsmith Johann Schmalecker, and were horrified when all three of Schmalecker's children came down with smallpox. Alarmed, Leopold first left Schmalacker's house, taking Wolfgang (only) with him (17 October). Six days later (23 October), the entire family fled the city.\n\nThey headed north, into what today is the Czech Republic, first reaching Brno (then called by its German name, Brünn), where they called on the Count Franz Anton Schrattenbach, brother of Leopold's employer in Salzburg, the Prince-Archbishop Sigismund von Schrattenbach. Count Schrattenbach invited them to give a concert, but Leopold, impelled by an \"inner urge,\" wanted to go farther, and the family continued northward after two days to Olmütz (today Olomouc). It was there that, on 26 October, Wolfgang showed the first symptoms of smallpox. Given the incubation period of the disease (roughly, 12 days), it can be ascertained that he had already caught it in Vienna.\n\nLeopold consulted an acquaintance, Count Leopold Anton Podstatsky, who was dean of the Cathedral and rector of the University in Olmütz. Leopold had known Podstatsky when the Count had previously worked in Salzburg. The count, learning that Wolfgang was showing symptoms of smallpox, insisted that the Mozarts move into his home, and he placed Mozart under the excellent care of his personal physician, Dr. Joseph Wolff.\n\nLeopold later wrote:\nWolfgang was complaining of his eyes. I noticed his head was warm, that his cheeks were hot and very red, but that his hands were cold as ice. Moreover, his pulse was not right. So we gave him some black powder and put him to bed. During the night he was rather restless and in the morning he still had the dry fever.\n\nA frightening symptom of Wolfgang's illness, not made explicit in Leopold's letter, was an inability to see. In a letter written much later (1800), his sister Nannerl reported:\nHe caught the smallpox, which made him so ill that he could see nothing for nine days and had to spare his eyes for several weeks after his recovery.\n\nAlthough blindness was indeed a common result of smallpox, ophthalmologist Richard H. C. Zegers suggests that Mozart's symptoms did not represent actual blindness, but rather resulted from the pustular rash of the disease affecting his eyelids.\n\nBy 10 November, Wolfgang was feeling better, but then Nannerl also contracted smallpox, and was ill for three weeks. The Mozart children were thereafter safe from the disease, which confers immunity on its survivors. According to Leopold, both children were pitted in the locations of the former pustules, but neither seriously.\n\nDuring his recovery, Wolfgang, who needed to spare his eyes, spent the time learning card tricks and fencing.\n\nWith both children's illness to contend with, the Mozarts spent a total of four months away from Vienna. They eventually returned there and were received in the Imperial court on 19 January, 1768. The Empress, who had by now lost three children to smallpox, conversed with Frau Mozart about the disease.\n\nThe remainder of the trip was not especially successful. Leopold apparently misinterpreted a chance remark of the Emperor as a firm invitation for Wolfgang to compose an opera; this resulted in Wolfgang writing \"La finta semplice\". However, the opera went unperformed in Vienna; the singers and musicians did not like it, and intrigues prevented the work from reaching the stage. \"La finta semplice\" eventually was premiered in Salzburg, following the Mozarts' return there on 5 January 1769.\n\nThe experience of losing three of her children to smallpox led Empress Maria Theresa to become a convert to inoculation. In 1768 she engaged the Dutch physician Jan Ingenhousz to conduct an inoculation program. Ingenhousz's program worked first among poor people, with the goal of developing a weakened strain of the disease; poor parents in Vienna were paid a ducat to have their children inoculated. The inoculations performed with this weakened strain on the imperial family were successful, and led to greater public acceptance for the procedure.\n\nSmallpox struck the Mozart family again in the next generation: Nannerl's eldest son Leopold and two of her stepchildren caught the disease during an outbreak in the Salzburg area in 1787. All three children survived.\n\nIn 1796, the discovery of vaccination—the use of the related cowpox virus to immunize against smallpox—by Edward Jenner revolutionized the ability of medicine to deal with smallpox. Vaccination reached Vienna around 1800, when yet another local epidemic created impetus for its adoption. One of the doctors trained in the Vienna campaign, named Doutrepout, then brought vaccination to Mozart's native city of Salzburg. According to Halliwell, \"popular resistance was fierce,\" and both the government and the Roman Catholic Church (previously an opponent) took stern measures to promote vaccination. The first relative of Mozart's known to have been vaccinated was Johanna Berchtold von Sonnenberg, called \"Jeannette\" (1789–1805), Nannerl's youngest child; she was vaccinated during the 1802 campaign in Salzburg.\n\nWith vaccination, great progress was made in reducing incidence of the disease, and it was eventually confirmed as eradicated in 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "51801172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51801172", "title": "Negative mental capital", "text": "Negative mental capital\n\nNegative mental capital, like positive mental capital, is related to habit formation. According to Ho(2014) \"When a bad habit is formed, it becomes a negative mental capital that keeps undermining our wellbeing, because we would then effectively lose control of ourselves, and succumb to the potentially ruinous inertia that prevents us from reaching greater goals that await us.\"(p. 35) The reference to \"capital\" is because like capital in economics, habit formation is a process of accumulation. This process of accumulation leads to entrenched neural pathways that makes breaking a habit very difficult. \n"}
{"id": "5217251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5217251", "title": "Norman William Kater", "text": "Norman William Kater\n\nSir Norman William Kater (18 November 1874—18 August 1965) was a medical practitioner, pastoralist and member of the New South Wales Legislative Council. He was born into a socially prominent rural family. His father Henry Edward Kater also was a member of the Legislative Council, and his grandfather William Forster was Premier of New South Wales. He served as a member of the Legislative Council for 30 years, from 1921 to 1955. He was educated at All Saints College, Bathurst, and Sydney Grammar School. He read medicine at the University of Sydney He served during first world war with the Red Cross and was appointed a Chevalier de La Legion d'Honneur. He also served as the President of the Australian Club.\nHis commercial appointments included directorships of Peko Wallsend Limited and Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited.\n"}
{"id": "33954934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33954934", "title": "Ognyanovo Reservoir", "text": "Ognyanovo Reservoir\n\nOgnyanovo reservoir, also called Lake Ognyanovo, or Ognyanova, is a reservoir in Bulgaria near Sofia. Holding 32 million cubic metres of water, it is an important reservoir in Bulgaria. It impounds the waters of the Lesnovska river.\n\nOn October 27, 2011, while the second-unit stunt team was filming a stuntman (Kun Liu) was killed and another (Nuo Sun), was critically injured in a staged explosion on a rubber boat. Sun underwent a five-hour operation, which left him in stable condition.\n"}
{"id": "2832162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832162", "title": "Oxygen radical absorbance capacity", "text": "Oxygen radical absorbance capacity\n\nOxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) was a method of measuring antioxidant capacities in biological samples \"in vitro\". In 2012, stating that no physiological proof \"in vivo\" existed in support of the free-radical theory, ORAC was withdrawn due to absence of correlation between test results and biological activity. \n\nA wide variety of foods were tested using this method, with certain spices, berries and legumes rated highly in extensive tables once published by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Alternative measurements include the Folin-Ciocalteu reagent, and the Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity assay.\n\nThe assay measures the oxidative degradation of the fluorescent molecule (either beta-phycoerythrin or fluorescein) after being mixed with free radical generators such as azo-initiator compounds. Azo-initiators are considered to produce the peroxyl radical by heating, which damages the fluorescent molecule, resulting in the loss of fluorescence. Antioxidants are considered to protect the fluorescent molecule from the oxidative degeneration. The degree of protection is quantified using a fluorometer. Fluorescein is currently used most as a fluorescent probe. Equipment that can automatically measure and calculate the capacity is commercially available (Biotek, Roche Diagnostics).\n\nThe fluorescent intensity decreases as the oxidative degeneration proceeds, and this intensity is typically recorded for 35 minutes after the addition of the azo-initiator (free radical generator). So far, AAPH (2,2’-azobis(2-amidino-propane) dihydrochloride) is the sole free-radical generator used. The degeneration (or decomposition) of fluorescein is measured as the presence of the antioxidant slows the fluorescence decay. Decay curves (fluorescence intensity vs. time) are recorded and the area between the two decay curves (with or without antioxidant) is calculated. Subsequently, the degree of antioxidant-mediated protection is quantified using the antioxidant trolox (a vitamin E analogue) as a standard. Different concentrations of trolox are used to make a standard curve, and test samples are compared to this. Results for test samples (foods) have been published as \"trolox equivalents\" or TEs.\n\nOne benefit of using the ORAC method to evaluate substances' antioxidant capacities is that it takes into account samples with and without lag phases of their antioxidant capacities. This is especially beneficial when measuring foods and supplements that contain complex ingredients with various slow- and fast-acting antioxidants, as well as ingredients with combined effects that cannot be precalculated.\n\nDrawbacks of this method are: 1) only antioxidant activity against particular (probably mainly peroxyl) radicals is measured; however, peroxyl radical formation has never been proven; 2) the nature of the damaging reaction is not characterized; 3) there is no evidence that free radicals are involved in this reaction; and 4) there is no evidence that ORAC values have any biological significance following consumption of any food. Moreover, the relationship between ORAC values and a health benefit has not been established.\n\nResulting from scientific refutation of the physiological significance of ORAC, the USDA, which had been collating and publishing ORAC data for more than a decade, withdrew its web publication of ORAC values for common American foods in May 2012.\n\nSeveral modified ORAC methods have been proposed. Most of them employ the same principle (i.e. measurement of AAPH-radical mediated damage of fluorescein); however, ORAC-EPR, electron paramagnetic resonance-based ORAC method directly measures the decrease of AAPH-radical level by the scavenging action of the antioxidant substance.\n\nIn the following discussion, the term \"antioxidant\" refers mainly to non-nutrient compounds in foods, such as polyphenols, which have antioxidant capacity\" in vitro\", so provide an artificial index of antioxidant strength—the ORAC measurement.\n\nOther than for dietary antioxidant vitamins—vitamin A, vitamin C and vitamin E—no food compounds have been proved with antioxidant efficacy \"in vivo\". Accordingly, regulatory agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration of the United States and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) have published guidance forbidding food product labels to claim or imply an antioxidant benefit when no such physiological evidence exists. This guidance for the United States and European Union establishes it is illegal to imply potential health benefits on package labels of products with high ORAC.\n\nAlthough research \"in vitro\" indicates polyphenols are good antioxidants and probably influence the ORAC value, antioxidant effects \"in vivo\" are probably negligible or absent. By \"non\"-antioxidant mechanisms still undefined, flavonoids and other polyphenols may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer.\n\nAs interpreted by the Linus Pauling Institute, EFSA and the USDA, dietary polyphenols have little or no direct antioxidant food value following digestion. Not like controlled test tube conditions, the fate of polyphenols \"in vivo\" shows they are poorly conserved (less than 5%), with most of what is absorbed existing as chemically modified metabolites destined for rapid excretion.\n\nThe increase in antioxidant capacity of blood seen after the consumption of polyphenol-rich (ORAC-rich) foods is not caused directly by the polyphenols, but most likely results from increased uric acid levels derived from metabolism of flavonoids. According to Frei, \"we can now follow the activity of flavonoids in the body, and one thing that is clear is that the body sees them as foreign compounds and is trying to get rid of them.\"\n\nValues are expressed as the sum of the lipid soluble (e.g. carotenoid) and water-soluble (e.g. phenolic) antioxidant fractions (i.e., “total ORAC”) reported as in micromoles trolox equivalents (TE) per 100 gram sample, and are compared to assessments of total polyphenol content in the samples.\n\nThese values are considered biologically irrelevant by the EFSA and USDA.\n\nWith nearly all vegetables, conventional boiling can reduce the ORAC value by up to 90%, while steaming retains more of the antioxidants.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture, previously a publisher of ORAC data, withdrew its web publication of ORAC values for common American foods in 2012 due to absence of scientific evidence that ORAC has any biological significance.\n\nWhen comparing ORAC data, care must be taken to ensure the units and food being compared are similar. Some evaluations will compare ORAC units per gram of dry weight of the intact food or its milled powder, others will evaluate ORAC units in fresh or frozen wet weight, and still others will look at ORAC units per serving. Under each evaluation, different foods can appear to have higher ORAC values. For example, although a raisin has no more antioxidant potential than the grape from which it was dried, raisins will appear to have a higher ORAC value per gram of wet weight than grapes due to their reduced water content. Likewise, the large water content in watermelon can make it appear as though this fruit is low in ORAC. Similarly, the typical quantity of food used should be considered; herbs and spices may be high in ORAC, but are applied in much smaller quantities compared to intact whole foods.\n\nNumerous health food and beverage companies and marketers have erroneously capitalized on the ORAC rating by promoting products claimed to be \"high in ORAC\". As most of these ORAC values have not been independently validated or subjected to peer review for publication in scientific literature, they remain unconfirmed, are not scientifically credible, and may mislead consumers.\n\n"}
{"id": "41620783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41620783", "title": "Porphyridium cruentum", "text": "Porphyridium cruentum\n\nPorphyridium cruentum is a species of red alga in the family Porphyridiophyceae.\n\nThe microalga \"Porphyridium sp\". is a potential source for several products like fatty acids, lipids, cell-wall polysaccharides and pigments . The polysaccharides of this species are sulphated and their structure gives rise to some unique properties that could lead to a broad range of industrial and pharmaceutical applications. Additionally, \"P. cruentum\" biomass contains carbohydrates of up to 57% have been reported. Thus, the combined amount of carbohydrates in biomass and exopolysaccharides of this microalga could potentially provide the source for bio-fuel and pharmaceutical \n\nThe genus \"Porphyridium\" has been classified among blue-green, red, and green algae.\n"}
{"id": "20763305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20763305", "title": "Primary enamel cuticle", "text": "Primary enamel cuticle\n\nPrimary enamel cuticle, also called Nasmyth's membrane, is thin membrane of tissue also known as reduced enamel epithelium (REE) produced by the ameloblast, that covers the tooth once it has erupted. This tissue is primarily basal lamina. It is usually worn away by mastication and cleaning. The primary enamel cuticle protects enamel from resorption by cells of the dental sac and also secretes desmolytic enzymes for elimination of the dental sac, allowing fusion between reduced enamel epithelium and oral epithelium. This process allows eruption of the tooth without bleeding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25541329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25541329", "title": "Project Gaia", "text": "Project Gaia\n\nProject Gaia is a U.S. non-governmental, non-profit organization involved in the creation of a commercially viable household market for alcohol-based fuels in Ethiopia and other countries in the developing world. The project considers alcohol fuels to be a solution to fuel shortages, environmental damage, and public health issues caused by traditional cooking in the developing world. Targeting poor and marginalized communities that face health issues from cooking over polluting fires, Gaia currently works in Ethiopia, Nigeria, Brazil, Haiti, and Madagascar, and is in the planning stage of projects in several other countries.\n\nMore than 3 billion people cook with wood fire worldwide. Approximately 60% of African families cook with traditional biomass, a percentage that increases to 90% for Sub-Saharan Africa. Smoke and gaseous emissions pour out of burning wood, animal dung, or crop residues, leading to lung disease and respiratory illnesses in women and children. Traditional biomass fuels release emissions that contain pollutants dangerous to health, such as small particles, carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen dioxide, butadiene, formaldehyde, and carcinogens such as benzopyrene and benzene. The World Health Organization estimates that more than 4 million people die each year from household air pollution generated by cooking with solid fuels in poorly ventilated spaces. 500,000 of these deaths are from childhood pneumonia. Indoor air pollution is especially deadly for children; it is responsible for nearly 50% of pneumonia deaths in children under the age of five.\n\nBecause of their constant exposure to cook fires, women and children are particularly at risk. Indoor air pollution causes 56% of deaths and 80% of the global burden of disease for children under the age of five. Indoor air pollution also increases the risk of acute lower respiratory infections, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and is associated with tuberculosis, perinatal mortality, low birth weight, asthma, otitis media, cancer of the upper airway, and cataracts. Respiratory disease in children is the leading cause of death for children, though malaria and diarrheal diseases are better known. Indoor air pollution also disproportionately effects refugee, poor urban, and HIV/AIDs populations living in crowded and poorly ventilated conditions, and already carrying the burden of disease.\n\nMeanwhile, collecting wood involves risk to personal safety. Women and older children usually collect wood, often facing gender-based harassment and disputes with landowners who accuse them of trespassing. Women in Ethiopia's UNHCR refugee camps say that they fear assault, rape, and violence while searching for wood.\n\nBeyond these public health issues, cooking with wood fires is also unsustainable and contributes to rapid deforestation in the developing world. Where wood is already limited, its collection leads to desertification. In Africa, collection of wood for cooking and charcoal production is the primary reason for the disappearance of the forests. Further, the burning of hydrocarbon fuels, coal, charcoal, and even dung contributes to the accumulation of greenhouse gases. Smoky cooking fires and stoves contribute to the soot that is estimated to cause approximately 16% of global warming. Black carbon particles in the atmosphere are considered one of the most dangerous pollutants after carbon dioxide. Furthermore, higher rates of deforestation and desertification force women to travel further and further to gather fuelwood, increasing their vulnerability to the dangers of fuelwood collection.\n\nThe available alternatives to biomass fuels do not offer much improvement. Kerosene is imported at significant expense, and is burnt with a wick stove that does not combust the fuel efficiently and tips or spills easily. The projected retail cost of ethanol is lower than that of government-subsidized kerosene in Ethiopia today. Kerosene stoves are also prone to flare ups and explosions; accidental kerosene fires cause many injuries and deaths each year. Kerosene releases carcinogenic emissions and is often poorly refined or adulterated by the time it is acquired for domestic use. Liquified petroleum gas (LPG) burns cleanly but is expensive and cannot be produced locally. Charcoal, a processed biomass fuel, burns with less smoke, but emits carbon monoxide. Meanwhile, coal produces all of the dangerous emissions of traditional biomass fuels and depending on its quality, also produces sulfur oxides and toxic elements such as arsenic, lead, fluorine, and mercury.\nAid initiatives and emergency response projects rarely provide energy for cooking, focusing instead on food rations and necessary cookware. Occasionally the UNHCR purchases and provides biomass and transports it to communities where it is desperately needed. When aid projects do involve stoves, many undertake the dissemination of improved biomass stoves. These burn biomass fuel more efficiently but do not eliminate the household need for biomass nor eliminate indoor air pollution.\n\nAlcohol fuels have a low-flammability limit (LFL) that is higher than hydrocarbon fuels, which means they do not catch fire easily, even when spilled. They are extinguishable by water and are not prone to explosion like LPG (propane and butane). Alcohol burns cleanly, producing only carbon dioxide and water vapor, and none of the soot or toxic chemicals produced by solid fuels and kerosene.\nAlcohol fuels are clean (with particle emissions far below the WHO levels). When paired with an efficient stove, alcohol fuels can drastically improve indoor air quality, and thus improve respiratory health and quality of life by reducing the global burden of disease.\" \n\nAlcohol is beginning to gain wider recognition as a source of fuel. Because of initiatives like Project Gaia, the UNDP has placed the previously absent ethanol and methanol near the top of its “energy ladder,” a progression of fuels that range from dirty and inefficient (e.g. biomass) to clean and efficient (e.g. biogas, LPG, ethanol, methanol). Project Gaia believes in gradual introduction of ethanol-burning appliances into both the private household market and the small or large institutional market, to ensure widespread acceptance. As the alcohol fuel market increases, and acceptance of clean cookstoves grows, Project Gaia sees the potential for the use of other high-performing alcohol appliances that provide lighting, refrigeration and air-tempering, and generation.\n\nEthanol can be produced locally from byproducts that would otherwise cause environmental damage. It can be produced from biomass, natural gas, coal, and even landfill gas—resources plentiful in many developing countries. The use of alcohol fuel for household fuel, therefore, is efficient resource management—transforming waste products to a highly valuable resource. This transformation can lead to a cleaner environment, the forming of new jobs in industry, agriculture, manufacturing, and the service sector, and a decreased need for imported fuels.\n\nProject Gaia's team currently works with the alcohol-based CleanCook stove, a stable, stainless steel, one or two-burner stove adapted from the Origo stove invented by Bengt Ebbeson in 1979 and manufactured by Swedish company Dometic AB, the leading manufacturer of alcohol stoves and appliances worldwide. The Origo stove, recognized as the best alcohol stove available, is popular in the leisure markets in the U.S. and Europe, commonly for boating and camping use. The stove's working life is to projected to be 5–10 years for daily use. Project Gaia works to adapt the stove to local cooking needs and habits. Some of the adaptations made to the CleanCook include the slight raising and redesign of the pot-stand to allow for larger pots and for more oxygen to reach the flame, and the addition of handles to make transport and refill of the stove easier.\n\nDometic seeks to address the developing world market because alcohol fuel technologies are particularly appropriate for it. The CleanCook contains a non-pressurized, no-spill fuel tank that can hold methanol or ethanol. The CleanCook stove was designed with several specific safety measures. The CleanCook stove's fuel canister holds an absorbent mineral fiber covered by a protective metal mesh, preventing fuel from spilling from the canister even when the stove is inverted. The design of this fuel tank eliminates risk of explosion, flare-up, or leakage, and other safety features built into the stove make the CleanCook less likely to cause burns than other cooking methods. Meanwhile, the CleanCook is a high-performing stove, equivalent in power (1.5 to 2kW) and temperature to an LPG stove.\nTo operate the stove, its fuel canister must be filled with one liter of ethanol. If pouring the fuel results in drops around the hole, these must be wiped away. The canister must be clipped onto the base of the stove, the regulator opened, and the ethanol vapor lit with a match or lighter. After cooking, the canister should be left in position to limit further evaporation of remaining ethanol.\n\nThe US-based Aprovecho Research Center has conducted tests comparing the emissions and energy performance of the CleanCook in comparison with conventional LPG and kerosene stoves. When compared with kerosene, the CleanCook used less energy, produced lower emissions, and was quicker than to bring water to a boil. Compared with LPG, the CleanCook produced the same level of particulate emissions, but LPG released lower emissions of CO and was quicker to boil water. The UNDP in Malawi compared the CleanCook with wood and charcoal stoves and found that the CleanCook cut wood stoves’ CO emission in half, particulate emission by 99%, and energy use by 71%. The findings in comparison with charcoal showed similar results, with the energy use decreased by 55% and the emission and particulate reduction even greater than for wood stoves.\n\nProject Gaia believes that sustainable business is the best way to accomplish the goal of providing clean and safe cooking technology, and is supported by the UNDP Growing Sustainable Business (GSB) in its initiatives to bring the private and public sectors together. Project Gaia's business model involves the merging of stove manufacture and sale with fuel production and sale, thereby giving consumers confidence that they will receive fuel after purchasing stoves, and also allowing part of the stoves’ costs to transfer to the fuel. This financing mechanism is the model used for mobile phones and airtime – the initial cost of the stove would be cheaper to ensure its affordability, and this discount would be recovered over the course of several years in a very small mark-up in fuel cost. Another benefit of this system is that it allows for ownership of the right to produce the stove or parts of the stove in Ethiopia. The CleanCook is currently manufactured in Slovakia, but the possibility of local production in Ethiopia is currently being explored. Local production is in its early stages in Addis Ababa, with a starting goal of 18,000 stoves to be produced yearly. Project Gaia's business goals also include certification through the CDM Gold Standard for dissemination of CleanCook stoves and promotion of alcohol fuels.\n\nEducation about indoor air pollution is a fundamental element of Project Gaia's mission, which it has pursued by spreading awareness about the impact of IAP through workshops, seminars, media coverage, and engagement with local, state, and federal government, and organizations such as the WHO in Ethiopia, and the FDRE’s Ministry of Health. The danger of IAP and its effects on populations is often neglected, with malaria, HIV/AIDS, and infectious diseases receiving the majority of attention.\n\nProject Gaia is also working to educate the public about alcohol fuels and their potential for use in the developing world, and specifically, in the context of household energy. The market for families throughout the developing world that could benefit from the use of alcohol fuels for cooking and household energy is in the range of 600 million. As stated by the UNDP World Energy Assessment (2000), supplying modern energy services to the two billion people who still cook with traditional solid fuels and lack access to electricity is one of the most pressing problems facing humanity today.\n\nThe Ethiopian counterpart of Project Gaia, Inc. is the Ethiopian non-governmental organization, the Gaia Association, which is a UNHCR implementing partner. Ethiopia possesses all of the necessary factors for successful technology transfer of alcohol fuel: the quantity of ethanol produced by its sugar industry, the fact that it depends on imported petroleum fuels and biomass, and its need for improved fuels and safer stoves. In 2009, Ethiopia was producing approximately 8 million liters of ethanol annually. Molasses and other byproducts of the industry were being dumped in Ethiopia's rivers until about a decade ago when one of Ethiopia's five mills, Finchaa Sugar Company, solved the waste problem by acquiring a distillery and producing ethanol. Gaia answered an early query that Finchaa Sugar opened, proposing a household energy market for the ethanol, as no gasoline blending or export market was being successfully developed. Ethiopia's other mills have also become interested in producing ethanol, as a way to balance the fluctuations of sugar pricing. Ethiopia's government is developing plans to build ethanol-producing distilleries at all sugar mills, creating an ethanol supply that could fuel over 200,000 stoves.\n\nGaia is now planning to build its own micro distillery in Ethiopia as a demonstration project for what can be achieved with small and micro scale distillation plants. Gaia is working with the Ethiopian Environmental Protection authority, the Ministry of Mines and Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture to build this distillery. A range of feedstocks are being considered, including more conventional feedstocks such as molasses, and sugar cane or sweet sorghum juice, or unconventional feedstocks such as fruit waste from the markets in Addis Ababa or sugary materials from plants growing wild such as cactus, the bean pods from the mesquite tree (Prosopis), a noxious invasive species in Ethiopia, or the Giant Milkweed plant (Calotropis procera). Gaia is hoping to encourage very small scale distilleries owned by farmer groups or co-ops and small to medium-sized local entrepreneurs.\n\nThe domestic fuel blending market and the export market for ethanol remain difficult in Ethiopia for several reasons. The technical precision and regulation necessary for successful blending has prevented its success in Ethiopia; major petroleum sellers like Shell, Total, Mobil, and domestic companies such as National Oil resist the blending of ethanol in petroleum fuels because the fuel supply system is poorly regulated and the fuel is sometimes adulterated. Fuel sellers cannot trust the integrity of their fuel if blended with ethanol, because the ethanol may take up water into the fuel and promote phase separation and worsened contamination. As for the export market, Ethiopia's ethanol production is too small to attract large international buyers and has only succeeded in selling ethanol at lower prices than other exporters. Ethiopia's landlocked location also makes export difficult. The local selling of Finchaa's ethanol, therefore, provides a sustainable opportunity for Ethiopia, with prices that are affordable but also competitive with the potential export market.\nEthiopia is energy-poor and 95-98% deforested, although most of its population still depends on biomass fuels. Before beginning its pilot studies, Gaia found that refugee families use approximately 3.7 tons of fuel wood a year, and spend up to eight hours every two or three days collecting this wood.\n\nCleanCook stoves have now been tested in and placed in three UNHCR refugee camps, HIV/AIDS orphanages run by Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity, in a rural village in Ethiopia's Somali State, and in lower and middle-income private homes in Addis Ababa. Pilot studies conducted by the Gaia Association have yielded positive results and acceptance and widespread approval among households both in the refugee camps and in Addis Ababa. Project Gaia is also working to bring stove manufacturing to Addis Ababa by linking the Ethiopian business Makobu Enterprises PLC and Dometic AB, and encouraging government support for the designation of ethanol for household fuel purposes.\n\nRefugee camps in Eastern Ethiopia that house refugees of Somali conflict have placed heavy pressure on the environment and resources of Ethiopia for the past two decades, reaching a combined population of 600,000 refugees in the early 1990s. The UNHCR and its partner NGOs supply these camps with basic needs but have not provided cooking fuel until recently. Fuel wood gathering, the responsibility of refugee women, has resulted in the almost complete deforestation of the regions around the refugee camps, and Ethiopia's government has banned all cutting of live trees around the camps. The UNHCR must provide alternatives to wood fuel at any new refugee camps.\n\nProject Gaia is currently active in Awbarre refugee camp (formerly known as Teferi Ber) and Kebribeyah refugee camp, where all of the camp's approximately 1780 families have CleanCook stoves and a daily ration of ethanol, funded cooperatively by the UNHCR and the Gaia Association. The combined population of Kebribeyah and Awbarre camps is approximately 27,000 people, and the UNHCR is planning to re-open at least two more camps to make room for past refugees who have fled to Ethiopia again after returning to Somalia and experiencing worsening conditions since July 2007.\n\nIn 2012, Gaia Association received a grant from the Nordic Climate Fund (NCF) to demonstrate the feasibility of locally produced ethanol for cooking. The grant provided funds to build a community owned and operated ethanol microdistillery. The distillery, which is currently under construction in the Kolfe-Keranio community on the outskirts of Addis Ababa, will be run by a local women's cooperative, the Former Women Fuelwood Carriers Association.\n\nAlso in 2012, in an effort to address the environmental and social problems associated with the overreliance on traditional biomass for household cooking, Gaia Association, together with the Ethiopian Environmental Protection Authority, is piloting a project to demonstrate small-scale, community owned and driven ethanol production from sugarcane (in the form of ethanol microdistilleries) in Amhara, Oromya & Gambella regional states. Partial installation of the EMDs has been completed in two of the three regional states.\n\nProject Gaia works in collaboration with many organizations that help support pilot studies, encourage government involvement, and provide local or regional support. Gaia's lead business partners are members of the United Nations Global Compact, and many members of the Gaia team have joined the Partners for Clean Indoor Air (PCIA), which developed out of the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in Johannesburg with the goal of cleaning up indoor air. Project Gaia is also a member of the HEDON Household Energy Network which unites key actors and stakeholders in the movement for a cleaner, more efficient, and affordable household energy sector.\n\nIn Ethiopia, Gaia has created partnerships with organizations that serve poor communities and refugee camps. Gaia's Ethiopia partners include the UNHCR-RLO and the UNDP, the Good Shepherd Sisters, the Missionaries of Charity, the Former Women Fuelwood Carriers’ Association, Finchaa Sugar Company, the Ethiopian Rural Energy Development and Promotion Center, and the Ogaden Welfare and Development Association. Under its Breathe Easy Program, the Shell Foundation is a technical and a funding partner for Gaia's Ethiopia and Brazil projects. These partners have supported Gaia's pilot studies and helped to strengthen the relationships between Ethiopian businesses and European and American businesses, with the goal of facilitating the sustainable transfer of technology, goods, and services to Ethiopia.\n\nBy 2050 Nigeria is expected to outgrow the population of the USA. The market for cookstoves- and more importantly, cooking fuels- is huge. Spurring both ethanol and methanol production will create local jobs, help give farmers new markets, and be locally sourced.\n\nNigeria, like Ethiopia has high potential for large-scale ethanol production from starchy cassava and sugarcane molasses. Nigeria also possesses an excess of natural gas in the form of gas flares; it is responsible for 40% of worldwide flaring. This natural gas can be easily converted to methanol and Nigeria's flared gas alone could fuel CleanCook stoves in every household in West Africa. Nigeria, like other West African countries, is energy poor and depends on fuelwood for cooking. In Nigeria, Project Gaia depends on the local support of the Centre of Household Energy and Health, based in the Niger Delta. Gaia's main sponsor in Delta State is the U.S. EPA in partnership with the Delta State Government.\n\nGaia's technical partner for Nigeria, HydroChem, which is part of the Linde Group, is the leading provider of small-scale hydrogen, CO, and CO2 plants. These plants are easily adapted to manufacture methanol, by converting natural gas into liquid form, and thereby creating a fuel that can be used in the household energy market. In gas or electric form, it is not feasible for the developing world market because of the investment, infrastructure, and maintenance necessary and subsidies that are required to make it affordable. HydroChem's plants are ideal for local, small-scale production at low expense in countries like Nigeria, where gas flares could be converted into household fuel.\nCurrently, Project Gaia is working with local commercial partners to begin a 10,000 stove pilot study.\n\nProject Gaia studied the acceptance of the CleanCook ethanol stove in different urban and rural households in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil between 2006-2007. Because LPG was too costly for low-income families, most households in the study had been using firewood for cooking. In some areas, woodfuel collection is banned. Participating families could get fuel for cooking easily and cheaply at the gas pump. Households found ethanol easy, safe and affordable to use. The ability to buy ethanol in small quantities, rather than being forced to purchase large canisters of LPG, was most beneficial to low-income households.\n\nBrazil's strong social policies have helped to lift families out of poverty and increase access to energy. As Brazil develops, Project Gaia is working to replicate the Brazilian model in other project sites. Project Gaia's work continues in partnership with Prolenha.\n\nProject Gaia began work in Madagascar beginning in 2008 at the request of the Government of Madagascar. Project Gaia's work is commissioned with the objective of multifaceted contribution to the goals of the Africa Action Plan (AAP) and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and to the goals of several initiatives related to the development of alternative household energy sources. Gaia's work with household or indoor air pollution will address other MDGs such as the promotion of gender equality, improving maternal health, and ensuring environmental sustainability. The Madagascar Action Plan (MAP) is one initiative that is working to promote alternative sources of energy that will decrease the burden on Madagascar's forests and to reduce child mortality, a large factor of which is the household use of solid fuels. Project Gaia's involvement also contributes to goals in several specific sectors including those of the Ministère de l’Environnement, des Eaux et Forêts et du Tourisme, the Ministère de l’Energie et des Mines, the Ministère de la Santé, du Planning Familial et de la Protection, the Ministère de l’Agriculture, Elevage et la Pêche, and the Foundation Tany Meva - piloting community-based use of ethanol for household cooking.\n\nProject Gaia launched operations in Haiti, in response to the increased need for relief after the 2010 hurricane and in the hopes of contribution to the “Build Back Better” strategy being developed by Haiti's government and other engaged nations and organizations. That Haiti is more than 98% deforested makes transition away from wood fuels essential, especially since 70% of Haiti's population continues to rely on charcoal and firewood for fuel. Since the earthquake, Haitian families have been spending at least 40% of their income on charcoal and all fuel prices have surged.\n\nMeanwhile, Haiti has great potential for local, sustainable production of ethanol because of its past status as a significant sugar cane producer and the capacity for revival of this industry. One million tons of sugar cane is produced annually – a decrease from 3 million in 1987 – and sugar mills and distilleries are already in place. Ethanol, even before it is produced locally, can still be sold locally for a lower price than Haitian charcoal.\n\nFor this project, Gaia is receiving donations of ethanol fuel for CleanCook stoves from the Brazilian government and the Brazilian ethanol industry. Gaia's approach in Haiti involves three phases: 1) small-scale emergency intervention through donation of 500–5000 stoves, and work with local mills and distilleries to scale up domestic production of ethanol 2) larger-scale scale-up of 20,000–50,000 stoves and ethanol to IDP camps and large communities, partnership with other organizations and 3) sustainability work and local development, cooperation with government to encourage the passage of a biofuels plan, assessment of the state of local mills and distilleries that are closed, and of the possibility for micro distillery.\n\nGaia's collaborators for its Haiti Project include the Government of Haiti Ministry of Women's Affairs, Government of Brazil Ministry of External Relations, UNICA, COSAN, Dometic Group, Viva Rio Haiti, Marin Biological Lab (Woods Hole), CODEP, Terra Endeavors, Inc., J&J Import, BDP International, Trees Water People, Public-Private Alliance Foundation (PPAF).\n\nGaia Association conducted thorough pilot studies on the use of different household fuels in Addis Ababa, their varying prices, and the rates of their consumption. In 2004, Gaia began testing two-burner prototype stoves in 850 homes. Before and after the 850 stoves were placed, Gaia's field staff conducted household energy audits, consumer satisfaction studies and fuel price elasticity studies. In 50 homes, Gaia monitored IAP, recording levels of CO and particulate matter. Approximately 150 of the stoves that were tested in Addis Ababa were placed in very low-income homes. This part of the study helped Gaia determine the ideal price level for ethanol so that it would be affordable to the average household and also reach the poorer households.\n\nThroughout the process of pilot studies in each of its project sites, Gaia's team documented progress and compiled reports that charted the study results. Project Gaia used the study results to develop its business plan and to answer questions such as: Who is interested in the stove? Who can produce it? How should it be adapted to better suit its use? Who can distribute it? Who can supply the fuel? How will stove and fuel be linked?\n\nTo simulate reality and ensure affordability of the stove, Gaia charged for ethanol during the Pilot studies. After a month of free fuel, during which families could get used to cooking with the stove, each household paid for its fuel, allowing fuel use and rationing to be accurately documented. After the first month of purchasing fuel, its price was increased to reflect the cost of ethanol once the local market is fully developed. Price Elasticity studies documented the impact of the price increase on the family and their capacity and willingness to pay. Pilot study data showed that these households demonstrated the necessary purchasing power to afford CleanCook stoves and their fuel, if the purchasing price of the stove was subsidized.\n\nEven the poorest urban communities pay for cooking fuels because they cannot gather their fuel, as many refugees do in rural areas of Ethiopia. Wood and charcoal prices have risen because of the need to travel further and further outside of the city to gather them. Poor families are often forced to pay more for fuel because they buy small quantities of low-quality fuel when they can afford to – sometimes before each meal. Even the lowest grade of fuel is often expensive when purchased this way.\nDomestically produced ethanol would not require as much subsidization as petroleum-based fuels like kerosene because it can be sold for a lower price. Its domestic production, meanwhile, benefits the economy, and the subsidy that is contributed for its purchase does not leave the country as it does for imported fuel.\n\nIn the context of the refugee camps, ethanol was not sold because of the lack of purchasing power among refugees. When fuel gathering exhausts the little remaining biomass, energy provisions will have to be donor-supplied. Providing stoves and improved fuel, however, can save long-term costs by increasing productivity and well-being among refugees, increasing industry, and reducing health care costs.\n\nResponse to the stoves was very positive, both in households where families had experience with modern stoves and improved fuels, and in households without previous experience. The dominant response included appreciation for the cleanliness and safety of the stove and fuel and a positive evaluation of the stove's power and efficiency. In the refugee camps, CleanCook stoves allowed more women to cook inside their homes, and diminished the need for fuel wood gathering and allowed women more time to pursue income-generating activities, take care of personal health, provide childcare, and seek education. A reduced amount of fuel wood gathering also eased tensions between refugees and local landowners who do not welcome the gathering of wood from their land.\n\nMany groups supported Gaia in its pilot studies, including the UNHCR management and logistical staff for the refugee camps, by the Refugee Care Netherlands (ZOA) staff and FDRE Administration for Refugee and Returnee Affairs (ARRA) staff, field survey staff from the Ethiopian Rural Energy Development and Promotion Center, an Ethiopian government agency under the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the UNDP Growing Sustainable Businesses Program, Winrock International's Clean Energy Group, Makobu Enterprises management personnel, Dometic AB representatives from Research & Development, the Stove Division and Marketing, the Stokes Consulting Group, UNDP-GSB consultants, Finchaa Sugar, consultants from the Center for Entrepreneurship in International Health and Development at the University of California at Berkeley, and Shell Foundation advisors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59007041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59007041", "title": "Roger Barr", "text": "Roger Barr\n\nRoger C. Barr is an American professor of biomedical engineering at Duke University and a fellow of the Biomedical Engineering Society and the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering. He obtained his Bachelor of Science and Ph.D. degrees from Duke University in 1964 and 1968 respectively.\n"}
{"id": "17514197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17514197", "title": "S*", "text": "S*\n\nS* (pronounced \"S Star\") is the diminutive for the S* Life Science Informatics Alliance, a collaboration between seven universities and the Karolinska Institutet of Sweden, and its course, the S-Star Bioinformatics Online course. The goal is to provide course material for training in bioinformatics and genomics.\nThe following institutions are members of the S* Life Science Informatics Alliance:\n\n"}
{"id": "30970833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30970833", "title": "Sisterhood method", "text": "Sisterhood method\n\nThe Sisterhood Method is a household survey to estimate maternal deaths recommended by the World Health Organization. Although maternal deaths are a major problem in developing countries, high quality data are rare. Yet, numbers are needed for planning in order to reduce the problem of maternal death. Several methods have been used to estimate maternal deaths. According to the WHO, \"The approach was designed to overcome the problem of large sample sizes and thus reduce cost.\"\n\nThe death of a woman during or shortly after a pregnancy is an important medical problem in developing countries. 99% of all maternal deaths occur in developing countries. In the poorest countries in the world, e.g. Sierra Leone, the lifetime risk for a woman dying because of a maternal death is approx 1 in 6, whereas in developed countries, e.g. Sweden, the same lifetime risk is approx 1 in 30,000. Half of all maternal deaths occur in six countries only: Afghanistan, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, India, Nigeria, and Pakistan. Worldwide, maternal deaths decreased from approx 500,000 in 1980 to approx 350,000 in 2008. This decline in maternal deaths was associated mainly with better maternal education, maternal income, increased availability of trained birth attendants, and decreased pregnancy rates.\n\nAlthough maternal deaths are a major problem in developing countries, seen globally, the numbers are not very large, and there is an absence of high quality data. Yet, numbers are needed for planning in order to reduce maternal deaths. Several methods have been used to estimate maternal deaths. They include analysing census records and medical/death certificates, and \"Reproductive Age Mortality Studies\" (RAMOS). Also, household surveys are used. All of these methods are not totally precise, but they can provide some useful information to decrease maternal mortality.\n\nIn contrast, full surveillance programmes would be too costly and too unrealistic for many developing countries.\n\nThe Sisterhood Method is the most common household survey for estimating maternal deaths. It is time- and cost-effective, and reduces sample size requirements; in countries or areas with high levels of maternal deaths, i.e. over 500 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births, a sample size of 4000 households or less is acceptable for this method. But the method still provides a useful means of assessing maternal mortality.\n\nThis method includes four questions about the sisters of the woman in question:\n\nDeaths occurring over a large interval of time are documented. The overall estimate of maternal mortality is determined for 10–12 years before the survey. The Sisterhood Method is useful because usually maternal mortality changes slowly. It provides some meaningful data in countries or areas where there are no alternative means of generating estimates.\n\nThe Sisterhood Method is not appropriate in countries or areas where the total fertility rate is less than 4 children per family, in areas of significant migration, as well as during civil war, civil unrest or other significant social disruption.\n\nThe original Sisterhood Method is an indirect method. The newer Direct Sisterhood Method targets a more limited reference period for sister deaths and uses more in depth questions (e.g., deaths among all siblings, all deaths that are pregnancy related, and when these deaths occurred). This variant relies on fewer assumptions than the original Sisterhood Method. However, it requires a larger sample size, data gathering and analysis are more complex, and has large confidence intervals. Despite these limitations, the Direct Sisterhood Method can result in greater specificity of information. A retrospective maternal mortality ratio (MMR) can be calculated. This variant is used by Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS).\n"}
{"id": "37650376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37650376", "title": "Suicide in Bangladesh", "text": "Suicide in Bangladesh\n\nSuicide in Bangladesh is a common cause of unnatural death and a long term social issue. Of all the people reported dead due to suicide worldwide every year, 2.06% are Bangladeshi.\n\nAccording to a report by the World Health Organization 19,697 people committed suicide in Bangladesh in 2011. According to a report by Shaheed Suhrawardy Medical College Hospital, Dhaka, published in 2010, around 6,500,000 people of Bangladesh are prone to suicide. The rate is 128.08 people per 100,000 commit suicide in Bangladesh every year. The six-member team led by Dr AHM Feroz and Dr SM Nurul Islam of the medical college conducted the survey at Mominpur union of Chuadanga district from January to April 2010. But this has been noted that the above rate was assumed only based on survey conducted in one union which is not a good reflector of the total suicide rate in the whole country as total suicide rate per year is far less than what was mentioned in the report in the last couple of years.\n\nAccording to a report by \"The Daily Star\", from 2002 to 2009, 73,389 people committed suicide in Bangladesh. Of these 73,389 people, 31,857 people hanged themselves and 41,532 swallowed poison to commit suicide. \"Bangladesh Manabadhikar Bastabayan Sangstha\", a human rights group of Bangladesh shows that from January 2011 to August 2011, 258 people committed suicide, and of them, 158 were women and the remainder were men.\n\nAccording to a 2010 report by Shaheed Suhrawardy Medical College Hospital, of the 128.08 per 100,000 people who committed suicide in 2010, 89% were women and most them were unmarried. Statistics of \"Jatiya Mahila Ainjibi Samity,\", a Bangladeshi women's organizations shows, show that from 2006 to 2010, 40 girls committed suicide as victims of stalking. From 2001 to 2010, 4,747 women and girls committed suicide because of physical and domestic violence.\n\nAccording to a report published in the \"Lancet\" published in BBC News, suicidal tendency among women in Bangladesh is higher, because they have inferior status in society. Another factor is a higher rate of illiteracy and their economic dependence on men.\n\nIn 2007, in Mymensingh, a family of 9 committed mass suicide by hurling themselves onto a train. According to the diaries recovered from their home, they wanted a pure life as lived by Adam and Eve, freeing themselves from bondage to any religion.\n\nHanging is the most common method of suicide in Bangladesh. There is no cost involvement in this method other than ligature material, i.e., a rope, and thus that is why it is the preferred method. Swallowing poison is another common method in Bangladesh to commit suicide. In urban areas, people follow other methods to commit suicide, such as by an overdose of barbiturate tablets, or by other means.\n"}
{"id": "37640860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37640860", "title": "The Big Necessity", "text": "The Big Necessity\n\nThe Big Necessity: The Unmentionable World of Human Waste and Why It Matters (published in the United Kingdom as \"The Big Necessity: Adventures in the World of Human Waste\"), written by Rose George, is a descriptive representation of the history, advancement, cultural variation, solutions, and international need of sanitation. This work, written for the purpose of global awareness of sanitation, highlights the current state of a global crisis. George gives insight into how sanitation around the world depicts the standard of living in that area. George uses her own personal experiences as examples to explain the sanitary conditions of areas around the world. Worldwide, 2.6 billion people (40% of the world's population) do not have sanitary facilities or systems to dispose of waste. Studies show that 95% of human waste is released into lakes, rivers, and ponds in developing countries. George discusses the lack of sanitation and toilets for the majority of the world and the resultant infection of water supplies causing 10% of the world’s communicable diseases.\n\nThe Big Necessity is an informative book that brings to light the different ways people around the world dispose of their excrement. This book brings to light certain facts such as that access to a toilet adds 20 years to the average life.\n"}
{"id": "4412934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4412934", "title": "The Man Who Would Be Queen", "text": "The Man Who Would Be Queen\n\nThe Man Who Would Be Queen: The Science of Gender-Bending and Transsexualism is a 2003 book by the psychologist J. Michael Bailey, published by Joseph Henry Press.\n\nIn the first section of the book, Bailey discusses gender-atypical behaviors and gender dysphoria in children, emphasizing the biological determination of gender. In the second section he deals primarily with gay men, including the link between childhood gender dysphoria and male homosexuality later in life. Bailey reviews evidence that male homosexuality is congenital (a result of genetics and prenatal environment), and he argues for the accuracy of some stereotypes about gay men. In the third section, Bailey summarizes evidence for a psychological typology of trans women that says there are two forms of transsexualism that affects transgender women: one that he describes as an extreme type of male homosexuality and one that is a sexual interest in having a female body, called autogynephilia.\n\nThe book caused considerable controversy which led to complaints and a formal investigation by Northwestern University, where Bailey was chair of the psychology department until shortly before the conclusion of the investigation. Northwestern ultimately found no basis for the complaints, and a Northwestern University spokesperson said that his departure from the department chairmanship had nothing to do with the investigation. Bailey says that some of his critics were motivated by a desire to suppress discussion of the book's ideas about the autogynephilia theory of transsexual women. In her comprehensive review of the episode in her book \"Galileo's Middle Finger\", bioethicist Alice Dreger claims that accusations against Bailey were \"a sham. Bailey’s sworn enemies had used every clever trick in the book—juxtaposing events in misleading ways, ignoring contrary evidence, working the rhetoric, and using anonymity whenever convenient, to make it look as though virtually every trans woman represented in Bailey’s book had felt abused by him and had filed a charge.\"\n\n\"The Man Who Would Be Queen\" is divided into three sections: \"The Boy Who Would Be Princess\", \"The Man He Might Become\", and \"Women Who Once Were Boys\".\n\nIt starts with an anecdote about a child Bailey calls \"Danny\". Bailey writes of Danny's mother, who has been frustrated by other therapists she has seen about her son's \"feminine\" behavior. Bailey discusses psychologist and sexologist Kenneth Zucker's work with children whose parents have noticed significant gender-atypical behaviors. Bailey uses the anecdote about Danny to describe gender identity disorder, a label applied to males with significant feminine behaviors and females with significant masculine behaviors, such as cross-dressing. For example, this class includes boys that prefer to play with dolls and regularly identify with female characters in stories or movies, and girls that prefer to play with toy cars and identify with male characters. This section of the book also discusses some case studies of men who were, for varying reasons, reassigned to the female sex shortly after their birth, and emphasizes the fact that, despite this, they tended to exhibit typically male characteristics and often identified as men.\n\nThe second section deals primarily with gay men, including a suggested link between childhood gender identity disorder and male homosexuality later in life. Bailey discusses whether homosexuality is a congenitally or possibly even genetically related phenomenon. This discussion includes references to Bailey's studies as well as those of neuroscientist Simon LeVay and geneticist Dean Hamer. He also discusses the behavior of gay men and its stereotypically masculine and feminine qualities.\n\nIn the third section, Bailey summarizes a taxonomy of transsexual women that was proposed by Ray Blanchard about fifteen years earlier. According to Blanchard, there are two types of transsexual women: one described as an extreme form of male homosexuality, the other being motivated by a sexual interest in having a female body. Bailey also discusses the process by which transition from male to female occurs.\n\nThe book elicited both strongly supportive and strongly negative reactions. The controversial aspects included the contents of the book, whether the research was conducted ethically, whether it should have been published by the National Academies Press, and whether it should have been promoted as a scientific work. According to Benedict Carey's story in \"The New York Times\", \"To many of Dr. Bailey’s peers, his story is a morality play about the corrosive effects of political correctness on academic freedom.\" Interviewed by Carey, bioethicist Alice Dreger argues that \"what happened to Bailey is important, because the harassment was so extraordinarily bad and because it could happen to any researcher in the field. If we’re going to have research at all, then we’re going to have people saying unpopular things, and if this is what happens to them, then we’ve got problems not only for science but free expression itself.\"\n\nHowever, critics such as Deirdre McCloskey think that the pointed criticism, including filing charges, was warranted: \"Nothing we have done, I believe, and certainly nothing I have done, overstepped any boundaries of fair comment on a book and an author who stepped into the public arena with enthusiasm to deliver a false and unscientific and politically damaging opinion\". The concern over academic freedom was dismissed by Charles Allen Moser, who wrote: \"The death of free speech and academic freedom has been highly exaggerated. Science is not free of politics, never has been, and never will be.\"\n\n\"Kirkus Reviews\" concluded: \"Despite its provocative title, a scientific yet superbly compassionate exposition.\" The book received praise from gay sexual behavior scientist Simon LeVay, from sex-differences expert David Buss, and from research psychologist Steven Pinker, who wrote: \"The Man Who Would Be Queen may upset the guardians of political correctness on both the left and the right, but it will be welcomed by intellectually curious people of all sexes and sexual orientations.\" It also received praise from conservative journalist Steve Sailer, as well as \"Fortune\" magazine's Daniel Seligman, and Mark Henderson. Conservative commentator John Derbyshire said: \"a wealth of fascinating information, carefully gathered by (it seems to me) a conscientious and trustworthy scientific observer.\" It also received a positive review from writer Ethan Boatner of \"Lavender\" magazine and Duncan Osborne in \"Out\". Research psychologist James Cantor also wrote a positive review of the book in the newsletter of APA's Society for the Psychological Study of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Issues (Division 44).\n\nThe public response of members of the transgender community was almost entirely negative. Among other things, they opposed the book's endorsement of Blanchard's taxonomy of male-to-female transsexualism, and its publication by the National Academies Press, by whom it was \"advertised as science\" and marketed as \"scientifically accurate,\" which they argued was untrue. They also claimed the book exploited children with gender dysphoria. Among those criticizing the book were computer scientist Lynn Conway, biologists Joan Roughgarden and Ben Barres, physician Rebecca Allison, economist Deirdre McCloskey, psychologist Madeline Wyndzen, writers Dallas Denny, Pauline Park, Jamison Green, and Andrea James, as well as Christine Burns of Press for Change, and Executive Director Monica Casper of the Intersex Society of North America. James, a transgender advocate, attacked Bailey by constructing a website with pictures of Bailey's children taken from his public website beside sexually explicit captions, in one instance calling his young daughter a \"cock-starved exhibitionist\" as a way to mock Blanchard's taxonomy and its possible effects on transgender youth. \n\nNegative responses came from outside the transgender community as well. Liza Mundy of the \"Washington Post\" thought the book exceptionally dull despite the potentially interesting topic. Psychologist Eli Coleman referred to the book as \"an unfortunate setback in feelings of trust between the transgender community and sex researchers,\" and his colleague, Walter Bockting, wrote that it was \"yet another blow to the delicate relationship between clinicians, scholars, and the transgender community.\" Kinsey Institute Director John Bancroft said the book promoted a derogatory explanation of transgender identity that would hurt many vulnerable transgender people, and that the book, which was written in a popular science style, did not support the material in a scientific manner. Psychologist Randi Ettner said of Bailey, \"He's set back the field 100 years, as far as I'm concerned.\"\n\nOriginally, the Lambda Literary Foundation nominated the book as a finalist in the transgender award category for 2003. Transgender people immediately protested the nomination and gathered thousands of petition signatures in just a few days. Under pressure from the petition, the Foundation withdrew the nomination.\n\nIn 2008, Northwestern University professor of clinical medical humanities and bioethics Alice Dreger commented on Bailey's response to the negative reactions: \"Bailey may claim he was not insensitive, but given the number of people he offended with his prose, he is obviously, objectively wrong—being perceived as insensitive by this many people surely means you have been insensitive. (Especially if you don’t get that.)\" Physician Charles Allen Moser, though, believes that Bailey caused his own controversy by being mean spirited. \"To call a transsexual who denies Autogynephilia vigorously autogynephilic or an autogynephile-in-denial is also inflammatory and inappropriate. One can convey the same point with more cautious language. In general, researchers should avoid inciting hostility from their subjects. Stating that a subject is in denial or misleading the researcher usually leads to an angry reaction. Ridiculing someone for their beliefs, religious, political, or gender identification is never a good strategy. Ignoring these common courtesies will probably lead to an ugly confrontation, such as this “controversy.” Being a researcher does not confer immunity from the consequences of incivility.\"\n\nTwo of the transsexual women in Bailey's book, two who mistakenly thought they were represented in the book, and several organizations have accused him of ethical breaches in his work by talking to them about their life stories without obtaining formal written consent. All of the people were aware that Bailey was writing a book about trans women at the time of the interviews: some of them read the drafts of the book before publication, and several said they felt their stories had been told \"accurately and sympathetically.\" Bailey has denied that it is unethical for a university professor to talk to people in the same manner that journalists do, or to write books with the resulting anecdotes. He also stated that the book was \"popular and not 'scientific'\" so it was not required to follow IRB rules.\n\nAccording to Dreger, whether federal regulations required professors to obtain formal approval from a university Institutional Review Board (IRB) before interviewing people was uncertain at the time; she points out that shortly after publication of this book, the US Department of Health and Human Services, in conjunction with the Oral History Association and American Historical Association, issued a formal statement that taking oral histories, conducting interviews, collecting anecdotes, and similar activities do not constitute IRB-qualified research, and were never intended to be covered by clinical research rules, when such work is \"neither systematic nor generalizable in the scientific sense.\"\n\nAlso as cited as harassment of Bailey were legal complaints that Bailey was practicing psychology without a license. The basis for these complaints was that sex-reassignment surgery in the US requires authorization letters from two psychologists, and Bailey had written a second letter, at no charge and upon request, for some individuals Bailey had spoken with while writing the book. American bioethicist Alice Dreger notes that there was no legal basis for this claim, as Bailey received no compensation for his services, and was forthright in this letters about his qualifications, even attaching copies of his C.V: \"Presumably all this was why [Illinois] never bothered to pursue the charge, although you’d never know that from reading the press accounts, which mentioned only the complaints, not that they had petered out.\" State regulators took no action on these complaints.\n\n"}
{"id": "12233871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12233871", "title": "Trichilemmal cyst", "text": "Trichilemmal cyst\n\nA trichilemmal cyst, also known as a wen, pilar cyst or isthmus-catagen cyst, is a common cyst that forms from a hair follicle. They are most often found on the scalp. The cysts are smooth, mobile and filled with keratin, a protein component found in hair, nails, skin, and horns. They are, however, clinically and histologically distinct from trichilemmal horns, which are much more rare and not limited to the scalp. Trichilemmal cysts may run in families and they may or may not be inflamed and tender, often depending on whether they have ruptured. Rarely, these cysts may grow more extensively and form rapidly multiplying trichilemmal tumors, also called proliferating trichilemmal cysts, which are benign but may grow aggressively at the cyst site. Very rarely, trichilemmal cysts can become cancerous.\n\nTrichilemmal cysts are derived from the outer root sheath of the hair follicle. Their origin is currently unknown, but it has been suggested that they are produced by budding from the external root sheath as a genetically determined structural aberration. They arise preferentially in areas of high hair follicle concentrations, therefore, 90% of cases occur on the scalp. They are solitary in 30% of cases and multiple in 70% of cases.\n\nHistologically, they are lined by stratified squamous epithelium that lacks a granular cell layer and are filled with compact \"wet\" keratin. Areas consistent with proliferation can be found in some cysts. In rare cases, this leads to formation of a tumor, known as a proliferating trichilemmal cyst. The tumor is clinically benign, although it may display nuclear atypia, dyskeratotic cells, and mitotic figures. These features can be misleading, and a diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma may be mistakenly rendered.\nSurgical excision is required to treat a trichilemmal cyst. The method of treatment varies depending on the physician's training. Most physicians perform the procedure under local anesthetic. Others prefer a more conservative approach. This involves the use of a small punch biopsy about 1/4 the diameter of the cyst. The punch biopsy is used to enter the cyst cavity. The content of the cyst is emptied, leaving an empty sac. As the pilar cyst wall is the thickest and most durable of the many varieties of cysts, it can be grabbed with forceps and pulled out of the small incision. This method is best performed on cysts larger than a pea which have formed a thick enough wall to be easily identified after the sac is emptied. Small cysts have walls that are thin, and easily fragmented on traction. This increases the likelihood of cyst recurrence. This method often results in only a small scar, and very little if any bleeding.\n\n"}
{"id": "2015316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015316", "title": "Tympanostomy tube", "text": "Tympanostomy tube\n\nTympanostomy tube, also known as a grommet or myringotomy tube, is a small tube inserted into the eardrum in order to keep the middle ear aerated for a prolonged period of time, and to prevent the accumulation of fluid in the middle ear. The operation to insert the tube involves a myringotomy and is performed under local or general anesthesia. The tube itself is made in a variety of designs. The most commonly used type is shaped like a grommet. When it is necessary to keep the middle ear ventilated for a very long period, a \"T\"-shaped tube may be used, as these \"T-tubes\" can stay in place for 2–4 years. Materials used to construct the tube are most often plastics such as silicone or Teflon. Stainless steel tubes exist, but are no longer in frequent use.\n\nGuidelines state that tubes are an option in:\n\n\nAlthough myringotomy with tube insertion can be performed under local anesthesia during a regular doctor's appointment in co-operative adults, patients requiring tube insertion are very often young children. Since damage to the ear is possible unless the patient stays quite still while being manipulated, any patient who may have difficulty lying still during the procedure typically undergoes myringotomy and tube insertion under general anesthesia.\n\nThe insertion of tympanostomy tubes is one of the most common surgical procedures performed on children. In the United States, it is the most common reason for a child to undergo a general anesthetic.\n\nTympanostomy tubes generally remain in the eardrum for six months to two years, with T-tubes lasting up to four years. They generally spontaneously fall out of the eardrum as the skin of the eardrum slowly migrates out towards the ear canal wall over time. The eardrum usually closes without a residual hole at the tube site but in a small number of cases a perforation can persist. There is debate among clinicians as to whether long-lasting tubes are associated with a higher incidence of adverse outcomes, such as persistent perforation, cholesteatoma, tympanosclerosis and others, as opposed to tubes designed to last for shorter durations.\n\nA common complication of getting a tympanostomy tube is experiencing , which is a discharge from the ear. Oral antibiotics should not be used to treat uncomplicated acute tympanostomy tube otorrhea. Oral antibiotics are not a sufficient response to bacteria which cause this condition and have significant side effects including increased risk of opportunistic infection. In contrast, topical antibiotic eardrops can treat this condition.\n"}
{"id": "17810063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17810063", "title": "Vicente Salias", "text": "Vicente Salias\n\nVicente Salias (March 23, 1776 – September 17, 1814) was a Venezuelan doctor, journalist, and writer who wrote Venezuela's \"Gloria al Bravo Pueblo\" \"Glory to the Brave People.\" national anthem. Born in Puerto Cabello, Carabobo on March 23, 1776.\n\nSalias' parents were Francisco Salias Tordesillo and María Margarita Sanija Cabeza de Vaca. He had four siblings and the names were Juan Marino, Carlos Pedro and Francisco Salias who fought for the emancipation movement. All perished during the struggle except Francisco.\nHe enrolled in philosophy courses in the Universidad Central de Venezuela, University of Caracas on September 18, 1788. Three years later he took several courses in Law, which he dropped out a year later.\n\nStill pursuing much more academic achievement during high school, he enrolled in medicine and his mentor during this time was Felipe Tamariz, who was an important influence in shaping a future scholar. He graduated from high school with a degree in Philosophy and a year later earned another degree in medicine, all of this was before going to college. In that same year, he enrolls as a medical student and begins his illustrious career in medicine.\n\nHis biggest contributions were his articles 1804 and 1805 on Small Pox Vaccination.\n\nHe was the founder and leader of the Patriotic Society of Caracas (Sociedad Patriotica de Caracas). Following the events of the where Salias and his brothers participated activelly, the commanding General and other colonial officials designated by Joseph Bonaparte to oversee the Captaincy General of Venezuela, were deposed by an expanded municipal government in Caracas that called itself: the Supreme Junta to Preserve the Rights of Ferdinand VII (\"La Suprema Junta Conservadora de los Derechos de Fernando VII\"). One of the first measures of revolutionaries was to send diplomatic missions abroad to seek support and recognition of the Supreme Junta of Caracas as the legitimate councilor of Venezuela in the absence of the King. Salias along with Mariano Montilla were sent by the Junta to Jamaica and Curaçao to spread the news about revolutionaries events in Venezuela.In charged of the Ministry of Finance, and collaborated with General Francisco de Miranda during the First Republic of Venezuela. He was captured by the Spaniards and was transferred to the castle of Puerto Cabello and Valencia, which then was released 1813.\n\nSalias fought alongside Simon Bolivar, Venezuela's liberator, and in the year 1814 he was captured and executed in the Castle of San Felipe. His last words were \"God Almighty if in the Heavens they admit the Spaniards, then I renounce to the Heavens!\".\n\n"}
