{"id": "68451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68451", "title": "Abetalipoproteinemia", "text": "Abetalipoproteinemia\n\nAbetalipoproteinemia is a disorder that interferes with the normal absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins from food. It is caused by a mutation in microsomal triglyceride transfer protein resulting in deficiencies in the apolipoproteins B-48 and B-100, which are used in the synthesis and exportation of chylomicrons and VLDL respectively. It is not to be confused with familial dysbetalipoproteinemia.\n\nIt is a rare autosomal recessive disorder.\n\nOften symptoms will arise that indicate the body is not absorbing or making the lipoproteins that it needs. These symptoms usually appear \"en masse\".\n\nThese symptoms come as follows:\n\nAbetalipoproteinemia affects the absorption of dietary fats, cholesterol, and certain vitamins. People affected by this disorder are not able to make certain lipoproteins, which are molecules that consist of proteins combined with cholesterol and particular fats called triglycerides. This leads to a multiple vitamin deficiency, affecting the fat-soluble vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, and vitamin K. However, many of the observed effects are due to vitamin E deficiency in particular.\nThe signs and symptoms of abetalipoproteinemia appear in the first few months of life (because pancreatic lipase is not active in this period). They can include failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive); diarrhea; abnormal spiny red blood cells (acanthocytosis); and fatty, foul-smelling stools (steatorrhea). The stool may contain large chunks of fat and/or blood. Other features of this disorder may develop later in childhood and often impair the function of the nervous system. They can include poor muscle coordination, difficulty with balance and movement (ataxia), and progressive degeneration of the retina (the light-sensitive layer in the posterior eye) that can progress to near-blindness (due to deficiency of vitamin A, retinol). Adults in their thirties or forties may have increasing difficulty with balance and walking. Many of the signs and symptoms of abetalipoproteinemia result from a severe vitamin deficiency, especially vitamin E deficiency, which typically results in eye problems with degeneration of the spinocerebellar and dorsal column tracts.\n\nMutations in the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) gene has been associated with this condition. (Apolipoprotein B deficiency, a related condition, is associated with deficiencies of apolipoprotein B.)\n\nThe \"MTTP\" gene provides instructions for making a protein called microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, which is essential for creating beta-lipoproteins. These lipoproteins are both necessary for the absorption of fats, cholesterol, and fat-soluble vitamins from the diet and necessary for the efficient transport of these substances in the bloodstream. Most of the mutations in this gene lead to the production of an abnormally short microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, which prevents the normal creation of beta-lipoproteins in the body. MTTP-associated mutations are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene must be faulty to produce the disease.\n\nThe initial workup of abetalipoproteinemia typically consists of stool sampling, a blood smear, and a fasting lipid panel though these tests are not confirmatory. As the disease is rare, though a genetics test is necessary for diagnosis, it is generally not done initially.\n\nAcanthocytes are seen on blood smear. Since there is no or little assimilation of chylomicrons, their levels in plasma remains low.\n\nThe inability to absorb fat in the ileum will result in steatorrhea, or fat in the stool. As a result, this can be clinically diagnosed when foul-smelling stool is encountered. Low levels of plasma chylomicron are also characteristic.\n\nThere is an absence of apolipoprotein B. On intestinal biopsy, vacuoles containing lipids are seen in enterocytes. This disorder may also result in fat accumulation in the liver (hepatic steatosis). Because the epithelial cells of the bowel lack the ability to place fats into chylomicrons, lipids accumulate at the surface of the cell, crowding the functions that are necessary for proper absorption.\n\nTreatment normally consists of rigorous dieting, involving massive amounts of vitamin E. Vitamin E helps the body restore and produce lipoproteins, which people with abetalipoprotenimia usually lack. Vitamin E also helps keep skin and eyes healthy; studies show that many affected males will have vision problems later on in life. Developmental coordination disorder and muscle weakness are usually treated with physiotherapy or occupational therapy. Dietary restriction of triglycerides has also been useful.\n\nIf treatment is initiated early in disease the neurologic sequelae may be reversed and further deterioration can be prevented. If left untreated the condition may lead to death. \n\n"}
{"id": "44559879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44559879", "title": "Abortion in Bhutan", "text": "Abortion in Bhutan\n\nAbortion in Bhutan is only legal when the abortion is a result of rape, incest, to preserve the woman's mental health, or to save her life. Despite this however, the United Nations report on abortion notes that the exact status of the country's abortion law is under. \"Because the state religion of Bhutan is Buddhism, which disapproves of abortion, it is probable that the procedure is allowed only to save the life of the pregnant woman.\"\n\nSince abortions are difficult for women to obtain in Bhutan, they often cross the border into India, where they get abortions in unsafe conditions. The danger and resulting fatalities has led many people to push for the legalization and decriminalization of abortion for Bhutanese women.\n\n"}
{"id": "760165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=760165", "title": "Arcuate nucleus", "text": "Arcuate nucleus\n\nThe arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (also known as ARH, ARC, or infundibular nucleus) is an aggregation of neurons in the mediobasal hypothalamus, adjacent to the third ventricle and the median eminence. The arcuate nucleus includes several important and diverse populations of neurons that help mediate different neuroendocrine and physiological functions, including: neuroendocrine neurons, centrally projecting neurons, and astrocytes. The populations of neurons found in the arcuate nucleus are based on the hormones they secrete or interact with and are responsible for hypothalamic function, such as regulating hormones released from the pituitary gland or secreting their own hormones. Neurons in this region are also responsible for integrating information and providing inputs to other nuclei in the hypothalamus or inputs to areas outside this region of the brain. These neurons, generated from the ventral part of the periventricular epithelium during embryonic development, locate dorsally in the hypothalamus, becoming part of the ventromedial hypothalamic region. The function of the arcuate nucleus relies on its diversity of neurons, but its central role is involved in homeostasis. The arcuate nucleus provides many physiological roles involved in feeding, metabolism, fertility, and cardiovascular regulation.\n\nDifferent groups of arcuate nucleus neuroendocrine neurons secrete various types or combinations of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides, such as neuropeptide Y (NPY), gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), agouti-related peptide (AgRP), cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), kisspeptin, dopamine, substance P, growth hormone–releasing hormone (GHRH), neurokinin B (NKB), β-endorphin, melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH), and somatostatin. Proopiomelanocortin (POMC) is a precursor polypeptide that is cleaved into MSH, ACTH, and β-endorphin and expressed in the arcuate nucleus.\n\nGroups of neuroendocrine neurons include:\n\nOther types of neurons have projection pathways from the arcuate nucleus to mediate different regions of the hypothalamus or to other regions outside of the hypothalamus. Projections of these neurons extend a long distance from the arcuate nucleus to the median eminence to influence the release of hormones from the pituitary gland. Neurons of the arcuate nucleus have intrahypothalamic projections for neuroendrocrine circuitry. such as neural projections that influence feeding behavior project to the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH), the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH, and the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). Populations of neurons connect to the intermediate lobes of the pituitary gland, from the lateral division of the ARH to the neural and intermediate parts of the pituitary gland, and the caudal division of ARH to the median eminence.\n\nGroups of neurons that project elsewhere within the central nervous system include:\n\nOther cell populations include:\n\n"}
{"id": "9917616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9917616", "title": "Barber and Calverley", "text": "Barber and Calverley\n\nTheodore Xenophon Barber (1927–2005) and David Smith Calverley (1937–2008) were American psychologists who studied \"hypnotic behaviour\". They measured how susceptible patients were to hypnotic induction. One result of their research was showing that the hypnotic induction was not superior to motivational instructions in producing a heightened state of suggestibility. The Barber Suggestibility Scale, a product of their research, measures hypnotic susceptibility with or without the use of a hypnotic induction.\n\nBarber was the author of \"Hypnosis: A Scientific Approach\" (1969). He argued in this work that hypnosis and related constructs are \"unnecessary and misleading and that the phenomena that have been traditionally subsumed under these terms can be better understood by utilizing a different set of concepts that are an integral part of present-day psychology.\" It was positively reviewed by the scientific community. Psychologist Theodore R. Sarbin noted that the work \"demystifies and demythologizes\" the subject, \"the construction of hypnosis as a special mental state ha[s] no ontological footing.\"\n\nBarber was a fellow of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (CSI). At a meeting of the executive council of CSI in Denver, Colorado in April 2011, Barber was selected for inclusion in CSI's Pantheon of Skeptics. The Pantheon of Skeptics was created by CSI to remember the legacy of deceased fellows of CSI and their contributions to the cause of scientific skepticism.\n\nTheodore Xenophon Barber\n\n"}
{"id": "56062679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56062679", "title": "Cannabis in Belarus", "text": "Cannabis in Belarus\n\nCannabis in Belarus is illegal.\n\nA 1996 report noted that cultivation of cannabis was present in Belarus, fueling usage in the country; the same report noted that personal possession of cannabis was not at that time illegal. Though production and use of cannabis was already illegal, on 31 December 2016 Belarus also banned the cultivation of cannabis.\n"}
{"id": "635422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=635422", "title": "Children's Health Insurance Program", "text": "Children's Health Insurance Program\n\nThe Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) – formerly known as the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) – is a program administered by the United States Department of Health and Human Services that provides matching funds to states for health insurance to families with children. The program was designed to cover uninsured children in families with incomes that are modest but too high to qualify for Medicaid.\n\nThe program came in response to the failure of comprehensive health care reform proposed in 1993 by President Bill Clinton. The legislation to create it was sponsored by Senator Ted Kennedy in a partnership with Senator Orrin Hatch, with support coming from First Lady Hillary Clinton during the Clinton administration.\nAt its creation in 1997, SCHIP was the largest expansion of taxpayer-funded health insurance coverage for children in the U.S. since Lyndon Johnson established Medicaid in 1965. The statutory authority for CHIP is under title XXI of the Social Security Act.\n\nStates are given flexibility in designing their CHIP eligibility requirements and policies within broad federal guidelines. Some states have received authority through waivers of statutory provisions to use CHIP funds to cover the parents of children receiving benefits from both CHIP and Medicaid, pregnant women, and other adults. CHIP covered 7.6 million children during federal fiscal year 2010, and every state has an approved plan. Despite CHIP, the number of uninsured children continued to rise, particularly among families that cannot qualify for CHIP. An October 2007 study by the Vimo Research Group found that 68.7 percent of newly uninsured children were in families whose incomes were 200 percent of the federal poverty level or higher as more employers dropped dependents or dropped coverage altogether due to annual premiums nearly doubling between 2000 and 2006. Vimo cites the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured when it says 48 percent of the newly uninsured were not eligible for any kind of public coverage, and that only those in the lowest income bracket might offset the loss of employer-sponsored coverage with increases in Medicaid and SCHIP. In FY 2008, the program faced funding shortfalls in several states.\n\nTwo attempts to expand funding for the program were vetoed by President George W. Bush, who argued that such efforts were steps toward federalization of health care, and would \"steer the program away from its core purpose of providing insurance for poor children and toward covering children from middle-class families.\" On February 4, 2009, President Barack Obama signed the Children's Health Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2009, expanding the healthcare program to an additional 4 million children and pregnant women, including “lawfully residing” immigrants without a waiting period.\n\nA 2018 survey of the existing research noted that the availability of \"CHIP coverage for children has led to improvements in access to health care and to improvements in health over both the short-run and the long-run.\"\n\nAs of February 2018, the CHIP program has been authorized to continue through the year 2027.\n\nThe Children's Health Insurance Program grew out of years of work in the U.S. Congress to improve Americans' health coverage. Almost a decade prior, the U.S. Bipartisan Commission on Comprehensive Health Care was formed in 1989 and charged with recommending “legislative action to ensure coverage for all Americans.” The Commission, renamed the Pepper Commission in honor of its creator and first chair Representative Claude Pepper (D-Fla.), laid out a blueprint to achieve universal coverage. Given the challenges of comprehensive health reform, Governor Jay Rockefeller, who was elected chair following Rep. Pepper's death, emphasized his commitment to pursue legislative action not only on the commission's full set of recommendations but also on a \"down payment\" — to expand public health coverage immediately for children and pregnant women, consistent with the principles the commission put forward. The legislation would guarantee public insurance coverage through Medicaid for every American child living in poverty and offset the cost of the improvements by doubling the federal excise tax on cigarettes.\n\nQuickly after his election in 1992, President Bill Clinton assembled a task force to write a comprehensive health reform bill, and he worked with Congress to introduce the Health Security Act (HSA) in November 1993. It included provisions such as universal coverage and a basic benefit package, health insurance reform, and consumer choice of health plans.\n\nAfter the HSA failed in the fall of 1994, congressional leaders and the administration recognized the need for an incremental, bipartisan approach to health care reform. Senator Jay Rockefeller continued to argue for expanded coverage for children. He referenced an amendment for accelerated coverage children and pregnant women offered during the Senate Finance Committee’s health care reform markup that was adopted by a bipartisan majority of 12 to 8 as evidence that there was bipartisan support to provide assistance to children. He also went on to say expanding coverage for children was essential to reforming the welfare system to “prevent families from having to go and off welfare to qualify for Medicaid.”\n\nThe 1996 Bipartisan Budget Agreement made net reductions in federal Medicaid spending over a five-year period but anticipated an additional $16 billion in spending on children's health care over the same period. However, it did not provide details on how that money would be spent. In 1997, several members of Congress introduced bills to cover uninsured children using that $16 billion, and the two most popular proposals were the Chafee-Rockefeller proposal and the Kennedy-Hatch proposal.\n\nSenator Ted Kennedy, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) was intrigued by a children's health insurance plan in Massachusetts that had passed in 1996, and met with a Boston Medical Center pediatrics director and a Massachusetts state legislator to discuss the feasibility of a national initiative. Kennedy also saw using an increase in tobacco taxes as a way to pay for the expanded coverage. Thus, in October 1996, Kennedy introduced a bill to provide health care coverage for children of the working poor, to be financed via a 75 cents a pack cigarette tax increase.\n\nKennedy brought Republican Senator Orrin Hatch onto the legislation as a co-sponsor. Kennedy and Hatch had worked together as an \"odd couple\" in the Senate before, and here Hatch said that \"Children are being terribly hurt and perhaps scarred for the rest of their lives\" and that \"as a nation, as a society, we have a moral responsibility\" to provide coverage. Hatch's role would infuriate some Republican colleagues and conservative commentators.\n\nOn April 8, 1997, Senators Kennedy and Hatch introduced S. 525, the “Child Health Insurance and Lower Deficit Act (CHILD). This legislation amended the Public Health Service Act to create a new grant program for states to purchase private health insurance for children. It proposed to raise $30 billion over 5 years by raising the tobacco tax with $20 billion going to expanded coverage for children under a block grant approach and $10 billion for deficit reduction. S. 525 was referred to the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. Hearings were held on the bill in the HELP Committee but legislation to expand coverage for children was never acted on in the HELP Committee.\n\nOn April 30, 1997, Senators John Chafee (R-RI) and Jay Rockefeller (D-WVa.) introduced S. 674, a bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security Act “to expand health coverage of low income children and pregnant women and to provide funds to promote outreach efforts to enroll eligible children.” On the same day, Representative John Dingell (D-MI) introduced an identical bipartisan companion bill in the House of Representatives with Republican cosponsor, Representative Margaret Scafati Roukema (R-NJ).\n\nMeanwhile, in December 1996 First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton examined several possible initiatives and decided expanding health care insurance to children who had none was the one to advance, especially as its focus on children would be politically popular. This had precedents from earlier in the Clinton administration: a different variant of this approach, dubbed \"Kids First\", had been envisioned as a backup plan during the original 1993 Task Force on National Health Care Reform meetings. Additionally, Hillary Clinton had discussed an SCHIP-like program with a White House health policy coordinator during the time her full-blown health care plan had suffered political failure.\n\nThe new initiative was proposed at Bill Clinton's January 1997 State of the Union address, with the stated goal of coverage up to five million children. Kennedy continued to write much of the bill, using the increase in tobacco taxes to pay the $20 billion price tag. In March 1997, Kennedy brought Republican Senator Orrin Hatch onto the legislation as co-sponsor; Kennedy and Hatch had worked together as an \"odd couple\" in the Senate before, and here Hatch said that \"Children are being terribly hurt and perhaps scarred for the rest of their lives\" and that \"as a nation, as a society, we have a moral responsibility\" to provide coverage. Hatch's role would infuriate some Republican colleagues and conservative commentators. The First Lady did not hold news conferences or testify before Congress on behalf of the bill.\n\nAn initial objection of Republicans in the Senate was that proposing to pay for the services by raising the federal tax on cigarettes, from 24 cents a pack to 67 cents a pack, ignored the likely consequence that sale of tobacco products would decrease and tax revenues would increasingly fall short of those needed to pay for the expansion of benefits. Kennedy and Hatch scoffed at the objection, with the former saying, \"If we can keep people healthy and stop them from dying, I think most Americans would say 'Amen; isn't that a great result?' If fewer people smoke, states will save far more in lower health costs than they will lose in revenues from the cigarette tax.\" Republicans also criticized the bill as an open-ended entitlement program, although it was structured as a block grant rather than an entitlement; Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott was an early opponent of the measure, calling it a \"big-government program\" that would not pass.\n\nThen the bill had to comply with the existing balanced budget agreement between Congress and the White House, something that Lott said it did not. Pressure was on to reduce the amount of grants involved, with $16 billion a possible compromise; Hillary Clinton instead argued for $24 billion. The Clinton administration had a deal with the Republican leadership in Congress that forbade the administration from backing any amendments to the budget resolution. Thus, Bill Clinton phoned members of Congress and asked that they kill the children's health insurance provision when it came to the floor. On May 22, it was so done, with the necessary cigarette tax amendment defeated by a 55–45 margin. Hillary Clinton defended her husband's action at the time, saying \"He had to safeguard the overall budget proposal,\" but Kennedy was surprised and angered by it, considering it a betrayal, and saying that his calls to Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore had not been returned. Hatch was also upset, saying that Lott may have been bluffing and that, \"I think the President and the people in the White House caved here.\"\n\nKennedy did not give up on the measure, saying: \"We shall offer it again and again until we prevail. It's more important to protect children than to protect the tobacco industry.\" Both Bill and Hillary Clinton argued for including the children's health insurance in subsequent legislation. The bill was indeed revived by Kennedy and Hatch a month after its initial defeat. Organizations from the Children's Defense Fund to the Girl Scouts of the USA lobbied for its passage, putting public pressure on Congress; Hillary Clinton was pushing for it as well, with Kennedy urging her to use her influence within the White House. SCHIP was then passed and signed into law by Bill Clinton on August 5, 1997 as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, to take effect the following month. At a press conference following the signing, Kennedy thanked Hatch, Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, Children's Defense Fund head Marian Wright Edelman, Bill Clinton, and Hillary Clinton. About the last, Kennedy said, \"Mrs. Clinton ... was of invaluable help, both in the fashioning and the shaping of the program and also as a clear advocate.\"\n\nSCHIP is located at Title IV, subtitle J of H.R. 2015 [105th] Balanced Budget Act of 1997. H.R. 2015 was introduced and sponsored by Rep John Kasich [R-OH] with no cosponsors. On 25 June 1997, H.R. 2015 passed House Vote Roll #241 mainly among partisan lines, 270 ayes and 162 nays, with most Democrats in the House of Representatives in opposition.\nOn the same day, the bill passed in the Senate, with a substitute amendment, by unanimous consent. After a conference between the House and Senate, passage in both House (Roll #345: 346-85) and Senate (Roll #209: 85-15) on the conference substitute became more bipartisan.\nLike Medicaid, SCHIP is a partnership between federal and state governments. The programs are run by the individual states according to requirements set by the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. States may design their SCHIP programs as an independent program separate from Medicaid (separate child health programs), use SCHIP funds to expand their Medicaid program (SCHIP Medicaid expansion programs), or combine these approaches (SCHIP combination programs). States receive enhanced federal funds for their SCHIP programs at a rate above the regular Medicaid match.\n\nBy February 1999, 47 states had set up SCHIP programs, but it took effort to get children enrolled. That month, the Clinton administration launched the \"Insure Kids Now\" campaign, designed to get more children enrolled; the campaign would fall under the aegis of the Health Resources and Services Administration. By April 1999, some 1 million children had been enrolled, and the Clinton administration set a goal of raising the figure to 2.5 million by 2000.\n\nStates with separate child health programs follow the regulations described in Section 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Section 457. Separate child health programs have much more flexibility than Medicaid programs. Separate programs can impose cost sharing, tailor their benefit packages, and employ a great deal of flexibility in eligibility and enrollment matters. The limits to this flexibility are described in the regulations, and states must describe their program characteristics in their SCHIP state plans. Out of 50 state governors, 43 support SCHIP renewal. Some states have incorporated the use of private companies to administer portions of their SCHIP benefits. These programs, typically referred to as Medicaid managed care, allow private insurance companies or health maintenance organizations to contract directly with a state Medicaid department at a fixed price per enrollee. The health plans then enroll eligible individuals into their programs and become responsible for assuring SCHIP benefits are delivered to eligible beneficiaries.\n\nIn Ohio, SCHIP funds are used to expand eligibility for the state's Medicaid program. Thus all Medicaid rules and regulations (including cost sharing and benefits) apply. Children from birth through age 18 who live in families with incomes above the Medicaid thresholds in 1996 and up to 200% of the federal poverty level are eligible for the SCHIP Medicaid expansion program. In 2008, the maximum annual income needed for a family of four to fall within 100% of the federal poverty guidelines was $21,200, while 200% of the poverty guidelines was $42,400.\n\nOther states have similar SCHIP guidelines, with some states being more generous or restrictive in the number of children they allow into the program. With the exception of Alaska, Idaho, North Dakota and Oklahoma, all states have a minimum threshold for coverage at 200% of the federal poverty guidelines. North Dakota currently has the lowest at 175%. New York currently has the highest at 405% of the federal poverty guidelines. SCHIP Medicaid expansion programs typically use the same names for the expansion and Medicaid programs. Separate child health programs typically have different names for their programs. A few states also call the SCHIP program by the term \"Children's Health Insurance Program\" (CHIP).\n\nStates are allowed to use Medicaid and SCHIP funds for premium assistance programs that help eligible individuals purchase private health insurance. As of 2008 relatively few states had premium assistance programs, and enrollment was relatively low. Interest in this approach remained high, however.\n\nIn August 2007, the Bush Administration announced a rule requiring states (as of August 2008) to sign up 95% of families with children earning 200% of the federal poverty level, before using the funds to serve families earning more than 250% of the federal poverty level. The federal government said that 9 out the 17 states that offer benefits to higher-earning families were already compliant. Opponents of this rule argued that signing up higher-income families makes lower-income families more likely to sign up, and that the rule was incompassionate toward children who would otherwise go without medical insurance.\n\n\nA 2018 survey of the existing research noted that the availability of \"CHIP coverage for children has led to improvements in access to health care and to improvements in health over both the short-run and the long-run.\"\n\nIn 2007, researchers from Brigham Young University and Arizona State found that children who drop out of SCHIP cost states more money because they shift away from routine care to more frequent emergency care situations. The conclusion of the study is that an attempt to cut the costs of a state healthcare program could create a false savings because other government organizations pick up the tab for the children who lose insurance coverage and later need care.\n\nIn a 2007 analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, researchers determined that \"for every 100 children who gain coverage as a result of SCHIP, there is a corresponding reduction in private coverage of between 25 and 50 children.\" The CBO speculates this is because the state programs offer better benefits at lower cost to enrollees than the private alternatives. A briefing paper by libertarian think-tank Cato Institute estimated the \"crowding out\" of private insurers by the public program could be as much as 60%.\n\nSCHIP was created in 1997 as a ten-year program; to continue past federal fiscal year 2007, passage of a reauthorization bill was required. The first two reauthorization bills to pass through Congress would also expand the program's scope; President George W. Bush vetoed them as improper expansions. A two-year reauthorization bill was signed into law by the President in December 2007 that would merely extend current SCHIP services without expanding any portion of the program. With the 2008 Presidential and Congressional elections giving Democrats control of the Oval Office as well as expanded majorities in both houses of Congress, SCHIP was reauthorized and expanded in the same bill through fiscal year 2013.\n\nIn 2007, both houses of Congress passed a bipartisan measure to expand the SCHIP program, . The measure would have expanded coverage to over 4 million more participants by 2012, while phasing out most state expansions in the program that include any adults other than pregnant women. The bill called for a budget increase for five years totaling $35 billion, increasing total SCHIP spending to $60 billion for the five-year period. Opposition to HR 976 focused on the $35 billion increase in government health insurance as well as $6.5 billion in Medicaid benefits to illegal immigrants. Originally intended to provide health care coverage to low-income children, HR 976 was criticized as a giveaway that would have benefited adults as well as non-U.S. citizens. The program expansion was to have been funded by sharply increasing federal excise taxes on tobacco products. On the other hand, opponents said this proposed expansion was for families with annual incomes up to $82,600 (400 percent of the federal poverty level)\n\nOn October 3, 2007, President Bush vetoed the bill, stating that he believed it would \"federalize health care\", expanding the scope of SCHIP much farther than its original intent. The veto was the fourth of his administration. After his veto, Bush said he was open to a compromise that would entail more than the $5 billion originally budgeted, but would not agree to any proposal drastically expanding the number of children eligible for coverage.\n\nOn October 18, 2007, the House of Representatives fell 13 votes short (273–156) of the two-thirds majority required to override the president's veto, although 44 Republicans joined 229 Democrats in supporting the measure.\n\nWithin a week of the failed veto override vote, the House passed a second bill attempting a similar expansion of SCHIP. According to Democrats, the second bill, , created firmer caps on income eligibility, prevented adults from joining, and banned children of illegal immigrants from receiving benefits. According to its opponents, however, this second proposed expansion was for families with annual incomes up to $62,000 (300 percent of the federal poverty level). The Senate passed the measure on November 1, 2007, but on December 12, 2007, Bush vetoed this bill as well, saying it was \"essentially identical\" to the earlier legislation, and a House vote in January 2008 failed to override the veto.\n\n, which extended SCHIP funding through March 31, 2009, and the President signed it into law on December 21, 2007.\n\nIn the wake of President Barack Obama's inauguration and the Democrats' increased majorities in both houses of Congress, legislative leaders moved quickly to break the political stalemate over SCHIP expansion. On January 14, 2009, the House passed on a vote of 290-138. The bill authorized spending and added $32.8 billion to expand the health coverage program to include about 4 million more children, including coverage of legal immigrants with no waiting period for the first time. A cigarette tax increase of 62 cents—bringing the total tax on a pack of cigarettes to $1.01—an increase of tax on chewing tobacco from $0.195/lb. to $0.50/lb.—as well as tax increases on other tobacco products was proposed as a funding source for the program's expansion. On January 29, the Senate passed the House bill by a 66-32 margin, with two amendments. The House accepted the amended version on a vote of 290 to 135, and President Obama signed the bill into law as on February 4, 2009.\n\nThe 2010 passage and signing of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act included funding for CHIP through 2015.\n\nIn 2015, Congress passed the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA), and it was signed by President Obama.\n\nCHIP expired on September 30, 2017. At the time, most states had sufficient funds to keep the program running for a period of months. \n\nOn September 18, 2017, Senators Orrin Hatch and Ron Wyden introduced the Keeping Kids’ Insurance Dependable and Secure (KIDS) Act (Bill S.1827), which would fund CHIP until 2022. On November 3, 2017, the House of Representatives passed the CHAMPION Act, which also would fund CHIP until 2022.\n\nOn January 22, 2018, President Trump signed legislation that reauthorized CHIP for six years. Bill H.195 (known as the Federal Register Printing Savings Act of 2017, including Extension of Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018) passed the House by a vote of 266-150 and passed the Senate a vote of 81-18. Fifteen Senate Democrats and 144 House Democrats voted against the bill because they objected to ending a three-day government shutdown without legally enshrining the DACA program for certain undocumented immigrants.\n\nOn February 9, 2018, Congress passed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which reauthorized CHIP for an additional four years. The bill was passed by vote of 71-28 in the Senate and by a vote of 240-186 in the House of Representatives. President Trump signed the bill into law that same day, allowing for CHIP's extension through 2027.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2992411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2992411", "title": "Corvalol", "text": "Corvalol\n\nCorvalol (Корвалол, Corvalolum, Korvalol) is a mild tranquilizer based on valerian (herb) root and phenobarbital, popular in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union as a heart medication. It is available as a transparent liquid with a characteristic strong aroma, and as white bi-concave scored tablets. While not available for sale in the Western countries, Corvalol is sometimes brought over from Eastern Europe for self-administration to other countries of residence. Corvalol contains documented amounts of psychoactive chemicals, and may interact with other prescription medications that a person is taking.\n\nCorvalol is labeled by the manufacturer for use in\n\nValerian (herb) extract (a component of corvalol) has been historically used for insomnia and conditions associated with anxiety. It has also been used for mood disorders such as depression, infantile convulsions, mild tremors, epilepsy, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). Additional historical uses include to help alleviate muscle and joint pain, nervous asthma, hysterical states, excitability, hypochondria, headaches, migraine, menstrual cramps and symptoms associated with menopause, including hot flashes and anxiety. However, few of these indications are supported by clinical trials in humans.\nTaking a combination product containing valerian extract plus hops extract has been shown to modestly improve subjective sleep measures including subjective sleep latency compared to placebo after 28 days of treatment.\nThere is evidence in limited animal trials that valerian root may reduce coronary vessel spasm, such as one that may occur in an attack of vasospastic angina or angina pectoris. The same study demonstrated that valerian may reduce bronchospasm in animals after administration of bronchospastic agents. These studies justify the traditional use of this plant in the treatment of some respiratory and cardiovascular disorders.\n\nPhenobarbital is a barbiturate anticonvulsant used in epilepsy and to induce sedation. Currently there is no evidence to support the use of phenobarbital in cardiovascular or bronchospastic disease states.\n\nDue to lack of scientific evidence supported by randomized clinical trials in humans, Corvalol and its components should be used with caution in patients with serious cardiovascular conditions, such as hypertension, angina, or respiratory conditions such as asthma. Prescription medications that have been scientifically proved to be effective in these disease states should be preferred due to evidence supporting their clinical use.\n\nAccording to the American Geriatrics Society, phenobarbital should not be used in the elderly population due to high rate of physical dependence, tolerance to sleep benefits, and the risk of overdose at low dosages.\n\nAccording to the manufacturer, overdose is possible due to accumulation of the ingredients when Corvalol is used frequently and in large doses. Symptoms of overdose include central nervous system depression, confusion, dizziness, ataxia, and somnolence. In serious cases overdose may result in breathing depression, tachycardia, arrhythmia, hypotension (low blood pressure), cardiovascular collapse, and coma.\n\nPhenobarbital is a strong inducer (activator) of several hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP3A4 and others. One of the functions of these enzymes is to change the molecular structure of medications and other substances taken in by the human body. Taking phenobarbital-containing products, such as Corvalol, while taking other medications may reduce their effectiveness. Some of the medications that may have decreased effectiveness when used with Corvalol are apixaban, rivaroxaban, clozapine, itraconazole, nifedipine, biologics, and many others.\nCorvalol may increase CNS depressant effect of other sedatives and hypnotics.\n\nCorvalol belongs to the sedative-hypnotic category.\nValerianate component of the preparation is purported to offer mild spasmolytic effects on the vasculature. Phenobarbital is a central nervous system depressant.\n\nAccording to the Farmak product label of Colvalol oral solution, the composition per 1 mL (26 drops) is as follows:\nInactive ingredients: stabilizer, ethanol 96%, purified water.\n\nAccording to the Farmak product label, the composition of 1 tablet is as follows:\nInactive ingredients: lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, β-cyclodextrin, acesulfame potassium.\n\nPhenobarbital, one of the principal ingredients in Corvalol, is a DEA Schedule IV substance in the United States. Schedule IV substances have a low potential for abuse relative to substances in Schedules I–III. Examples of Schedule IV substances are alprazolam (Xanax), carisoprodol (Soma), clonazepam (Klonopin), diazepam (Valium) and others. It is illegal to import Corvalol into United States (see Health Hazard with Unapproved Imported Drug from Russia )\n\nIn some countries of Eastern Europe, Corvalol is believed to be safe enough to use in recommended doses without prescription. It is widely used to treat elevated blood pressure and as a general-purpose tranquilizer/sedative. Despite the -lol suffix, the drug is not a beta-blocker. Corvalol is so common in Eastern Europe that, in 1996, the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation included it in the list of mandatory items in all Russian passenger vehicle first aid kits, alongside such drugs as aspirin, metamizole sodium (branded Analgin), nitroglycerin, and activated charcoal.\n\nCorvalol was produced by Kiev Chemical and Pharmaceutical Plant in Kiev, Ukraine in 1960-1991, and by its successor, the Joint Stock Company \"Farmak\", from 1991 onward. Farmak currently owns the exclusive trade mark to the drug name in Ukraine and a number of countries of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, but not in Russia, where Corvalol is available from a number of different drug companies.\n\nThe manufacturer Farmak produces another similar product, Corvaldin, which is similar in composition to Corvalol, but also contains 0.2 mg hops oil per 1mL on tincture.\n"}
{"id": "9562130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9562130", "title": "Culinary name", "text": "Culinary name\n\nCulinary names, menu names, or kitchen names are names of foods used in the preparation or selling of food, as opposed to their names in agriculture or in scientific nomenclature. The menu name may even be different from the kitchen name. For example, from the 19th until the mid-20th century, many restaurant menus were written in French and not in the local language.\n\nExamples include veal (calf), calamari (squid), and sweetbreads (pancreas or thymus gland). Culinary names are especially common for fish and seafood, where multiple species are marketed under a single familiar name.\n\nFoods may come to have distinct culinary names for a variety of reasons:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48551793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48551793", "title": "Dean Harold Noyes", "text": "Dean Harold Noyes\n\nHarold Judd Noyes (1898 - 1968), often called \"Dean Noyes\", was an American orthodontist who graduated from Angle School of Orthodontia. He was the Chairman of the Orthodontic Department of the Northwestern University Dental School. He also served as the Dean of University of Oregon Dental School.\n\nHe was the son of Frederick Bogue Noyes and grandson of Edmund Noyes, who both served as deans of American dental schools. He received his college degree from Beloit College. He received his dental degree in 1928 from University of Illinois College of Dentistry and received his medical degree in 1933 from Rush Medical School. His education was interrupted because of World War I in 1917 and 1919. He was married to Elizabeth Noyes and had a daughter, Loren N. Bates.\n\nIn his professional career, Dr. Noyes served as a pediatrician at Presbyterian Hospital, Children's Memorial in Chicago. He served as a consultant to Zoller Memorial Dental Clinic in Chicago in 1940. He was the Chairman of the Orthodontic Department of the Northwestern University Dental School from 1940 to 1946. He then served as the Dean of University of Oregon Dental School from 1946 until his death in 1967.\n\nWhile being Dean at Oregon Health & Science University School of Dentistry, Dr. Noyes introduced the \"Vertical Curriculum\" for dental students. He allowed first-year dental students to construct full dentures and participate in exercise of tooth morphology. This made a profound impact in dental education, as this curriculum was widely accepted and implemented in other dental schools.\n\nHe also co-authored a textbook with his father, \"Oral Histology and Embryology with Laboratory Directions\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53951", "title": "Diarrhea", "text": "Diarrhea\n\nDiarrhea, also spelled diarrhoea, is the condition of having at least three loose or liquid bowel movements each day. It often lasts for a few days and can result in dehydration due to fluid loss. Signs of dehydration often begin with loss of the normal stretchiness of the skin and irritable behaviour. This can progress to decreased urination, loss of skin color, a fast heart rate, and a decrease in responsiveness as it becomes more severe. Loose but non-watery stools in babies who are exclusively breastfed, however, are normal.\nThe most common cause is an infection of the intestines due to either a virus, bacteria, or parasite – a condition also known as gastroenteritis. These infections are often acquired from food or water that has been contaminated by feces, or directly from another person who is infected. The three types of diarrhea are: short duration watery diarrhea, short duration bloody diarrhea, and persistent diarrhea (lasting more than two weeks). The short duration watery diarrhea may be due to an infection by cholera, although this is rare in the developed world. If blood is present it is also known as dysentery. A number of non-infectious causes can result in diarrhea. These include lactose intolerance, irritable bowel syndrome, non-celiac gluten sensitivity, celiac disease, inflammatory bowel disease, hyperthyroidism, bile acid diarrhea, and a number of medications. In most cases, stool cultures to confirm the exact cause are not required.\nDiarrhea can be prevented by improved sanitation, clean drinking water, and hand washing with soap. Breastfeeding for at least six months and vaccination against rotavirus is also recommended. Oral rehydration solution (ORS)--clean water with modest amounts of salts and sugar—is the treatment of choice. Zinc tablets are also recommended. These treatments have been estimated to have saved 50 million children in the past 25 years. When people have diarrhea it is recommended that they continue to eat healthy food and babies continue to be breastfed. If commercial ORS are not available, homemade solutions may be used. In those with severe dehydration, intravenous fluids may be required. Most cases; however, can be managed well with fluids by mouth. Antibiotics, while rarely used, may be recommended in a few cases such as those who have bloody diarrhea and a high fever, those with severe diarrhea following travelling, and those who grow specific bacteria or parasites in their stool. Loperamide may help decrease the number of bowel movements but is not recommended in those with severe disease.\nAbout 1.7 to 5 billion cases of diarrhea occur per year. It is most common in developing countries, where young children get diarrhea on average three times a year. Total deaths from diarrhea are estimated at 1.26 million in 2013 – down from 2.58 million in 1990. In 2012, it was the second most common cause of deaths in children younger than five (0.76 million or 11%). Frequent episodes of diarrhea are also a common cause of malnutrition and the most common cause in those younger than five years of age. Other long term problems that can result include stunted growth and poor intellectual development.\n\nDiarrhea is defined by the World Health Organization as having three or more loose or liquid stools per day, or as having more stools than is normal for that person.\n\nAcute diarrhea is defined as an abnormally frequent discharge of semisolid or fluid fecal matter from the bowel, lasting less than 14 days, by World Gastroenterology Organization.\n\nSecretory diarrhea means that there is an increase in the active secretion, or there is an inhibition of absorption. There is little to no structural damage. The most common cause of this type of diarrhea is a cholera toxin that stimulates the secretion of anions, especially chloride ions (Cl). Therefore, to maintain a charge balance in the gastrointestinal tract, sodium (Na) is carried with it, along with water. In this type of diarrhea intestinal fluid secretion is isotonic with plasma even during fasting. It continues even when there is no oral food intake.\n\nOsmotic diarrhea occurs when too much water is drawn into the bowels. If a person drinks solutions with excessive sugar or excessive salt, these can draw water from the body into the bowel and cause osmotic diarrhea. Osmotic diarrhea can also be the result of maldigestion (e.g. pancreatic disease or coeliac disease), in which the nutrients are left in the lumen to pull in water. Or it can be caused by osmotic laxatives (which work to alleviate constipation by drawing water into the bowels). In healthy individuals, too much magnesium or vitamin C or undigested lactose can produce osmotic diarrhea and distention of the bowel. A person who has lactose intolerance can have difficulty absorbing lactose after an extraordinarily high intake of dairy products. In persons who have fructose malabsorption, excess fructose intake can also cause diarrhea. High-fructose foods that also have a high glucose content are more absorbable and less likely to cause diarrhea. Sugar alcohols such as sorbitol (often found in sugar-free foods) are difficult for the body to absorb and, in large amounts, may lead to osmotic diarrhea. In most of these cases, osmotic diarrhea stops when the offending agent (e.g. milk, sorbitol) is stopped.\n\nExudative diarrhea occurs with the presence of blood and pus in the stool. This occurs with inflammatory bowel diseases, such as Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, and other severe infections such as \"E. coli\" or other forms of food poisoning.\n\nInflammatory diarrhea occurs when there is damage to the mucosal lining or brush border, which leads to a passive loss of protein-rich fluids and a decreased ability to absorb these lost fluids. Features of all three of the other types of diarrhea can be found in this type of diarrhea. It can be caused by bacterial infections, viral infections, parasitic infections, or autoimmune problems such as inflammatory bowel diseases. It can also be caused by tuberculosis, colon cancer, and enteritis.\n\nIf there is blood visible in the stools, it is also known as dysentery. The blood is a trace of an invasion of bowel tissue. Dysentery is a symptom of, among others, \"Shigella\", \"Entamoeba histolytica\", and \"Salmonella\".\n\nDiarrheal disease may have a negative impact on both physical fitness and mental development. \"Early childhood malnutrition resulting from any cause reduces physical fitness and work productivity in adults,\" and diarrhea is a primary cause of childhood malnutrition. Further, evidence suggests that diarrheal disease has significant impacts on mental development and health; it has been shown that, even when controlling for helminth infection and early breastfeeding, children who had experienced severe diarrhea had significantly lower scores on a series of tests of intelligence.\n\nDiarrhea can cause electrolyte imbalances, renal impairment, dehydration, and defective immune system responses. When oral drugs are administered, the efficiency of the drug is to produce a therapeutic effect and the lack of this effect may be due to the medication travelling too quickly through the digestive system, limiting the time that it can be absorbed. Clinicians try to treat the diarrheas by reducing the dosage of medication, changing the dosing schedule, discontinuation of the drug, and rehydration. The interventions to control the diarrhea are not often effective. Diarrhea can have a profound effect on the quality of life because fecal incontinence is one of the leading factors for placing older adults in long term care facilities (nursing homes).\nAcute diarrhea is most commonly due to viral gastroenteritis with rotavirus, which accounts for 40% of cases in children under five. In travelers, however, bacterial infections predominate. Various toxins such as mushroom poisoning and drugs can also cause acute diarrhea.\n\nChronic diarrhea can be the part of the presentations of a number of chronic medical conditions affecting the intestine. Common causes include ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, microscopic colitis, celiac disease, irritable bowel syndrome and bile acid malabsorption.\n\nThere are many causes of infectious diarrhea, which include viruses, bacteria and parasites. Infectious diarrhea is frequently referred to as gastroenteritis. Norovirus is the most common cause of viral diarrhea in adults, but rotavirus is the most common cause in children under five years old. Adenovirus types 40 and 41, and astroviruses cause a significant number of infections. Shiga-toxin producing Escherichia coli, such as , are the most common cause of infectious bloody diarrhea in the United States.\n\n\"Campylobacter\" spp. are a common cause of bacterial diarrhea, but infections by \"Salmonella\" spp., \"Shigella\" spp. and some strains of \"Escherichia coli\" are also a frequent cause.\n\nIn the elderly, particularly those who have been treated with antibiotics for unrelated infections, a toxin produced by \"Clostridium difficile\" often causes severe diarrhea.\n\nParasites, particularly protozoa (e.g., \"Cryptosporidium\" spp., \"Giardia\" spp., \"Entamoeba histolytica\", \"Blastocystis\" spp., \"Cyclospora cayetanensis\"), are frequently the cause of diarrhea that involves chronic infection. The broad-spectrum antiparasitic agent nitazoxanide has shown efficacy against many diarrhea-causing parasites.\n\nOther infectious agents, such as parasites or bacterial toxins, may exacerbate symptoms. In sanitary living conditions where there is ample food and a supply of clean water, an otherwise healthy person usually recovers from viral infections in a few days. However, for ill or malnourished individuals, diarrhea can lead to severe dehydration and can become life-threatening.\n\nMalabsorption is the inability to absorb food fully, mostly from disorders in the small bowel, but also due to maldigestion from diseases of the pancreas.\n\nCauses include:\n\nThe two overlapping types here are of unknown origin:\n\nAnother possible cause of diarrhea is irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), which usually presents with abdominal discomfort relieved by defecation and unusual stool (diarrhea or constipation) for at least 3 days a week over the previous 3 months. Symptoms of diarrhea-predominant IBS can be managed through a combination of dietary changes, soluble fiber supplements and medications such as loperamide or codeine. About 30% of patients with diarrhea-predominant IBS have bile acid malabsorption diagnosed with an abnormal SeHCAT test.\n\nDiarrhea can be caused by other diseases and conditions, namely: \n\nOpen defecation is a leading cause of infectious diarrhea leading to death.\n\nPoverty is a good indicator of the rate of infectious diarrhea in a population. This association does not stem from poverty itself, but rather from the conditions under which impoverished people live. The absence of certain resources compromises the ability of the poor to defend themselves against infectious diarrhea. \"Poverty is associated with poor housing, crowding, dirt floors, lack of access to clean water or to sanitary disposal of fecal waste (sanitation), cohabitation with domestic animals that may carry human pathogens, and a lack of refrigerated storage for food, all of which increase the frequency of diarrhea... Poverty also restricts the ability to provide age-appropriate, nutritionally balanced diets or to modify diets when diarrhea develops so as to mitigate and repair nutrient losses. The impact is exacerbated by the lack of adequate, available, and affordable medical care.\"\n\nOne of the most common causes of infectious diarrhea is a lack of clean water. Often, improper fecal disposal leads to contamination of groundwater. This can lead to widespread infection among a population, especially in the absence of water filtration or purification. Human feces contains a variety of potentially harmful human pathogens.\n\nProper nutrition is important for health and functioning, including the prevention of infectious diarrhea. It is especially important to young children who do not have a fully developed immune system. Zinc deficiency, a condition often found in children in developing countries can, even in mild cases, have a significant impact on the development and proper functioning of the human immune system. Indeed, this relationship between zinc deficiency and reduced immune functioning corresponds with an increased severity of infectious diarrhea. Children who have lowered levels of zinc have a greater number of instances of diarrhea, severe diarrhea, and diarrhea associated with fever. Similarly, vitamin A deficiency can cause an increase in the severity of diarrheal episodes. However, there is some discrepancy when it comes to the impact of vitamin A deficiency on the rate of disease. While some argue that a relationship does not exist between the rate of disease and vitamin A status, others suggest an increase in the rate associated with deficiency. Given that estimates suggest 127 million preschool children worldwide are vitamin A deficient, this population has the potential for increased risk of disease contraction.\n\nSome medications, such as the penicillum can cause diarrhea. Over 700 medications are known to cause diarrhea. The classes of medications that are known to cause diarrhea are laxatives, antacids, heartburn medications, antibiotics, anti-neoplastic drugs, anti-inflammatories as well as many dietary supplements.\n\nAccording to two researchers, Nesse and Williams, diarrhea may function as an evolved expulsion defense mechanism. As a result, if it is stopped, there might be a delay in recovery. They cite in support of this argument research published in 1973 that found that treating \"Shigella\" with the anti-diarrhea drug (Co-phenotrope, Lomotil) caused people to stay feverish twice as long as those not so treated. The researchers indeed themselves observed that: \"Lomotil may be contraindicated in shigellosis. Diarrhea may represent a defense mechanism\".\n\nThe following types of diarrhea may indicate further investigation is needed:\n\n\nA severity score is used to aid diagnosis in children.\n\nNumerous studies have shown that improvements in drinking water and sanitation (WASH) lead to decreased risks of diarrhoea. Such improvements might include for example use of water filters, provision of high-quality piped water and sewer connections.\n\nIn institutions, communities, and households, interventions that promote hand washing with soap lead to significant reductions in the incidence of diarrhea. The same applies to preventing open defecation at a community-wide level and providing access to improved sanitation. This includes use of toilets and implementation of the entire sanitation chain connected to the toilets (collection, transport, disposal or reuse of human excreta).\n\nBasic sanitation techniques can have a profound effect on the transmission of diarrheal disease. The implementation of hand washing using soap and water, for example, has been experimentally shown to reduce the incidence of disease by approximately 42–48%. Hand washing in developing countries, however, is compromised by poverty as acknowledged by the CDC: \"Handwashing is integral to disease prevention in all parts of the world; however, access to soap and water is limited in a number of less developed countries. This lack of access is one of many challenges to proper hygiene in less developed countries.\" Solutions to this barrier require the implementation of educational programs that encourage sanitary behaviours.\n\nGiven that water contamination is a major means of transmitting diarrheal disease, efforts to provide clean water supply and improved sanitation have the potential to dramatically cut the rate of disease incidence. In fact, it has been proposed that we might expect an 88% reduction in child mortality resulting from diarrheal disease as a result of improved water sanitation and hygiene. Similarly, a meta-analysis of numerous studies on improving water supply and sanitation shows a 22–27% reduction in disease incidence, and a 21–30% reduction in mortality rate associated with diarrheal disease.\n\nChlorine treatment of water, for example, has been shown to reduce both the risk of diarrheal disease, and of contamination of stored water with diarrheal pathogens.\n\nImmunization against the pathogens that cause diarrheal disease is a viable prevention strategy, however it does require targeting certain pathogens for vaccination. In the case of Rotavirus, which was responsible for around 6% of diarrheal episodes and 20% of diarrheal disease deaths in the children of developing countries, use of a Rotavirus vaccine in trials in 1985 yielded a slight (2-3%) decrease in total diarrheal disease incidence, while reducing overall mortality by 6-10%. Similarly, a Cholera vaccine showed a strong reduction in morbidity and mortality, though the overall impact of vaccination was minimal as Cholera is not one of the major causative pathogens of diarrheal disease. Since this time, more effective vaccines have been developed that have the potential to save many thousands of lives in developing nations, while reducing the overall cost of treatment, and the costs to society.\n\nA rotavirus vaccine decrease the rates of diarrhea in a population. New vaccines against rotavirus, \"Shigella\", Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC), and cholera are under development, as well as other causes of infectious diarrhea.\n\nDietary deficiencies in developing countries can be combated by promoting better eating practices. Zinc supplementation proved successful showing a significant decrease in the incidence of diarrheal disease compared to a control group. The majority of the literature suggests that vitamin A supplementation is advantageous in reducing disease incidence. Development of a supplementation strategy should take into consideration the fact that vitamin A supplementation was less effective in reducing diarrhea incidence when compared to vitamin A and zinc supplementation, and that the latter strategy was estimated to be significantly more cost effective.\n\nBreastfeeding practices have been shown to have a dramatic effect on the incidence of diarrheal disease in poor populations. Studies across a number of developing nations have shown that those who receive exclusive breastfeeding during their first 6 months of life are better protected against infection with diarrheal diseases. One study in Brazil found that non-breastfed infants were 14 times more likely to die from diarrhea than exclusively breastfed infants. Exclusive breastfeeding is currently recommended for the first six months of an infant's life by the WHO, with continued breastfeeding until at least two years of age.\n\nProbiotics decrease the risk of diarrhea in those taking antibiotics.\n\nIn many cases of diarrhea, replacing lost fluid and salts is the only treatment needed. This is usually by mouth – oral rehydration therapy – or, in severe cases, intravenously. Diet restrictions such as the BRAT diet are no longer recommended. Research does not support the limiting of milk to children as doing so has no effect on duration of diarrhea. To the contrary, WHO recommends that children with diarrhea continue to eat as sufficient nutrients are usually still absorbed to support continued growth and weight gain, and that continuing to eat also speeds up recovery of normal intestinal functioning. CDC recommends that children and adults with cholera also continue to eat.\n\nMedications such as loperamide (Imodium) and bismuth subsalicylate may be beneficial; however they may be contraindicated in certain situations.\n\nOral rehydration solution (ORS) (a slightly sweetened and salty water) can be used to prevent dehydration. Standard home solutions such as salted rice water, salted yogurt drinks, vegetable and chicken soups with salt can be given. Home solutions such as water in which cereal has been cooked, unsalted soup, green coconut water, weak tea (unsweetened), and unsweetened fresh fruit juices can have from half a teaspoon to full teaspoon of salt (from one-and-a-half to three grams) added per liter. Clean plain water can also be one of several fluids given. There are commercial solutions such as Pedialyte, and relief agencies such as UNICEF widely distribute packets of salts and sugar. A WHO publication for physicians recommends a homemade ORS consisting of one liter water with one teaspoon salt (3 grams) and two tablespoons sugar (18 grams) added (approximately the \"taste of tears\"). Rehydration Project recommends adding the same amount of sugar but only one-half a teaspoon of salt, stating that this more dilute approach is less risky with very little loss of effectiveness. Both agree that drinks with too much sugar or salt can make dehydration worse.\n\nAppropriate amounts of supplemental zinc and potassium should be added if available. But the availability of these should not delay rehydration. As WHO points out, the most important thing is to begin preventing dehydration as early as possible. In another example of prompt ORS hopefully preventing dehydration, CDC recommends for the treatment of cholera continuing to give Oral Rehydration Solution during travel to medical treatment.\n\nVomiting often occurs during the first hour or two of treatment with ORS, especially if a child drinks the solution too quickly, but this seldom prevents successful rehydration since most of the fluid is still absorbed. WHO recommends that if a child vomits, to wait five or ten minutes and then start to give the solution again more slowly.\n\nDrinks especially high in simple sugars, such as soft drinks and fruit juices, are not recommended in children under 5 years of age as they may \"increase\" dehydration. A too rich solution in the gut draws water from the rest of the body, just as if the person were to drink sea water. Plain water may be used if more specific and effective ORT preparations are unavailable or are not palatable. Additionally, a mix of both plain water and drinks perhaps too rich in sugar and salt can alternatively be given to the same person, with the goal of providing a medium amount of sodium overall. A nasogastric tube can be used in young children to administer fluids if warranted.\n\nThe WHO recommends a child with diarrhea continue to be fed. Continued feeding speeds the recovery of normal intestinal function. In contrast, children whose food is restricted have diarrhea of longer duration and recover intestinal function more slowly. The WHO states \"Food should \"never\" be withheld and the child's usual foods should \"not\" be diluted. Breastfeeding should \"always\" be continued.\" And in the specific example of cholera, CDC also makes the same recommendation. Breastfed infants with diarrhea often choose to breastfeed more, and should be encouraged to do so. In young children who are not breast-fed and live in the developed world, a lactose-free diet may be useful to speed recovery.\n\nWhile antibiotics are beneficial in certain types of acute diarrhea, they are usually not used except in specific situations. There are concerns that antibiotics may increase the risk of hemolytic uremic syndrome in people infected with . In resource-poor countries, treatment with antibiotics may be beneficial. However, some bacteria are developing antibiotic resistance, particularly \"Shigella\". Antibiotics can also cause diarrhea, and antibiotic-associated diarrhea is the most common adverse effect of treatment with general antibiotics.\n\nWhile bismuth compounds (Pepto-Bismol) decreased the number of bowel movements in those with travelers' diarrhea, they do not decrease the length of illness. Anti-motility agents like loperamide are also effective at reducing the number of stools but not the duration of disease. These agents should only be used if bloody diarrhea is not present.\n\nBile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine can be effective in chronic diarrhea due to bile acid malabsorption. Therapeutic trials of these drugs are indicated in chronic diarrhea if bile acid malabsorption cannot be diagnosed with a specific test, such as SeHCAT retention.\n\nZinc supplementation may benefit children over six months old with diarrhea in areas with high rates of malnourishment or zinc deficiency. This supports the World Health Organization guidelines for zinc, but not in the very young.\n\nProbiotics reduce the duration of symptoms by one day and reduced the chances of symptoms lasting longer than four days by 60%. The probiotic lactobacillus can help prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea in adults but possibly not children. For those with lactose intolerance, taking digestive enzymes containing lactase when consuming dairy products often improves symptoms.\n\nWorldwide in 2004, approximately 2.5 billion cases of diarrhea occurred, which resulted in 1.5 million deaths among children under the age of five. Greater than half of these were in Africa and South Asia. This is down from a death rate of 4.5 million in 1980 for gastroenteritis. Diarrhea remains the second leading cause of infant mortality (16%) after pneumonia (17%) in this age group.\n\nThe majority of such cases occur in the developing world, with over half of the recorded cases of childhood diarrhea occurring in Africa and Asia, with 696 million and 1.2 billion cases, respectively, compared to only 480 million in the rest of the world.\n\nInfectious diarrhea resulted in about 0.7 million deaths in children under five years old in 2011 and 250 million lost school days. In the Americas, diarrheal disease accounts for a total of 10% of deaths among children aged 1–59 months while in South East Asia, it accounts for 31.3% of deaths. It is estimated that around 21% of child mortalities in developing countries are due to diarrheal disease.\n\nThe word diarrhea is from the Ancient Greek from ' \"through\" and ' \"flow\".\n\nDiarrhea is the spelling in American English while diarrhoea is the spelling in Commonwealth English.\n\nSlang terms for the condition include \"the runs\", \"the squirts\", and \"the trots\".\n"}
{"id": "19808062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19808062", "title": "Einstein Medical Center", "text": "Einstein Medical Center\n\nThe Einstein Medical Center is an independent Academic Medical Center in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area of the United States. Einstein is a part of the Einstein Healthcare Network. The medical center offers residency and fellowship training programs in many specialized areas. It also includes a Level I Regional Resource Trauma Center and a Level III Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.\n\nFounded as the Jewish Hospital for the Aged, Infirmed and Destitute (\"Jewish Hospital\" for short) in August, 1864, this hospital was an important institution in the history of the Jews in Philadelphia, providing care for \"the suffering poor of all religions\". It officially opened in 1866, starting with 22 beds (the linens donated by philanthropist Moses Rosenbach) at 56th and Haverford Road in West Philadelphia. The hospital soon expanded, moving to Old York Road in 1873, and opening various homes and clinics. In 1952, the Jewish hospital merged with Northern Liberties Hospital and Mount Sinai Hospital to form a single medical center. It was named for Albert Einstein after the volunteer president of Mount Sinai wrote a letter asking Einstein for permission to use his name. Einstein granted his permission on June 28 of that year.\n\nThe Henry S. Frank Memorial Synagogue, on the hospital grounds, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. It is a copy of the ancient synagogue at Kfar Bar'am, Israel.\n\n"}
{"id": "38954429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38954429", "title": "Great Gibraltar Sand Dune", "text": "Great Gibraltar Sand Dune\n\nThe Great Gibraltar Sand Dune is an ancient sand dune in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar. It forms part of the Upper Rock Nature Reserve and dominates the eastern cliffs of the Rock of Gibraltar. It was once used to capture rainwater which was contained in underground tanks within the Rock to satisfy the population's potable water needs.\n\nThe prehistoric dune is made from yellow, windblown sands lacking the red component of the sands on the west side of the Rock. It is made of the same sand that once formed part of a vast savanna of the late Pleistocene where Neanderthals hunted. The levant winds of prehistory continuously blew sand from this savanna westwards, accumulating against the eastern cliffs of the Rock, reaching from the base of the cliff right down to sea level (at that time there was no road where Sir Herbert Miles Road is today). The occasional rockfall from the precipice above added boulders to the dune so the formation seen today is a consolidated composite of rocks and windblown sands. The upper limits of the dune were scarped by the British garrison for two reasons - to avoid soldiers deserting the place and to prevent surprise attacks by Spanish troops. The Great Sand Dune was constantly shifting right up to the late 19th century when corrugated iron sheets were laid over the dune for the collection of rainwater. John White described this and the efforts to make it inaccessible:\n\n\"The Eastern side of the hill consists of an immense sloping bank of whitish sand interspersed with huge fragments of rock, and reaching from the sea nearly to the summit of the rock in some parts not far from the Signal House, and the Middle-hill Guards. These parts were formerly accessible, which made it necessary to keep constant guards there, as well to prevent desertions from within as a surprise from without. Of late years, much labour has been bestowed in making all these parts more abrupt and difficult, yet it is still necessary to watch them, as there are always some hardy adventurers who will wantonly risk their lives down these perilous cliffs, either in attempting to desert or in search of flowers.\"\n\nGibraltar has few natural sources of fresh water which has been historically problematic for its population over the centuries. In 1898, the construction on the waterworks began with the construction of four reservoirs cut inside the western side of the Rock at an elevation of above sea level, each being long high and with an average width of , with a total capacity of . They were officially inaugurated by Governor of Gibraltar Sir George White in 1901. These reservoirs were initially fed by relatively small water catchment areas on the western side of the Rock above the Moorish Castle.\n\nAs Gibraltar's population and demand for a fresh water supply increased, further sources of supply were required and a scheme to expand the system was proposed and carried out. This consisted of the construction of a water catchment area on the east side of the Rock and the driving of an tunnel through the Rock running east-west to channel the water to the existing reservoirs. The catchment which was the original idea of the then City Engineer of Gibraltar and was constructed in 1903 on the Great Sand Dune which has an average inclination of 1⅓ to 1. The largest of the boulders embedded in the dune were blasted away in order to trim the surface as even as possible. A footpath and channel for the collection of rainwater were constructed along the lower perimeter of the catchment area. Timber piles x x were driven their full length into the smoothed dune. To these a timber framing of x x purlins and x x rafters were nailed to them which was followed by screwing corrugated galvanised iron sheets x round the edges. The timber had been previously pressure treated with creosote at a pressure of . Further expansions of the Great Sand Dune catchments were carried out in stages up until 1961. The original plan was to cover an area of . Between 1911 and 1914 a fifth reservoir was excavated inside the Rock and the catchment area increased to . By 1961 the total catchment area had increased to its maximum of . It took roughly 5,928 rafters, 1,112 purlins, 1,161 piles, 5,928 sheets, 2,920 kg of screws and 850 kg of washers for every hectare of the Great Dune that was covered.\n\nThe Great Dune served to maintain a regular supply of sand on the eastern beaches of Gibraltar, especially Sandy Bay particularly when the sea removed material from the beach. This dynamic nature meant that little vegetation of any significant height could grow on the dune with any permanence as many pre-catchment photographs demonstrate.\n\nIn 2001, the Gibraltar Ornithological and Natural History Society began to manage the phased work of dismantling the catchment construction. By 2006 the slope was entirely restored to its natural state and is now completely covered in vegetation native to the habitat of Gibraltar.\n\n"}
{"id": "54213253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54213253", "title": "Health in Monaco", "text": "Health in Monaco\n\nMonaco has the third highest proportion of doctors for its population in Europe - 581 per 100,000 in 2015.\n\nInfant mortality rate:\n1.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2012 estimate)\n\nLife expectancy at birth:\n<br>\"total population:\"\n89.68 years(2012 estimate)\n<br>\"male:\"\n85.74 years(2012 estimate)\n<br>\"female:\"\n93.77 years (2012 estimate)\n\nThe Caisses Sociales de Monaco is the compulsory social insurance scheme in the principality which gives entitlement to the public healthcare system. Employers have to contribute 24% of their gross payroll for healthcare and employees 15% of their earnings. This entitles contributors and their families to reimbursement of between 80% and 100% of the cost of medical procedures, prescriptions, dentistry, rehabilitation, pregnancy and childbirth, and some hospitalizations. French and Italian citizens can use public health facilities if they have contributed to their home country’s state health care scheme. The Carte Vitale, which is issued on registration with the Caisses Sociales de Monaco, is used to record administrative, not clinical, information about patients. Patients must register with a doctor employed through the scheme.\n\nThere is also a great deal of private practice. \n\nThere are three public hospitals: Princess Grace Hospital Centre, the Cardiothoracic Center of Monaco and the Haemodialysis Centre.\n\nTotal health expenditure in the country was only about 4% in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "24968669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24968669", "title": "Holdsworth fracture", "text": "Holdsworth fracture\n\nIn medicine the Holdsworth fracture is an unstable fracture dislocation of the thoraco lumbar junction of the spine. The injury comprises a fracture through a vertebral body, rupture of the posterior spinal ligaments and fractures of the facet joints.\n\nThe injury was described by Frank Wild Holdsworth in 1963. He described the mechanism of this injury as a flexion-rotation injury, and said that the unstable fracture dislocation should be treated by fusion of the two affected vertebrae.\n"}
{"id": "22346539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22346539", "title": "Hurry Down Sunshine", "text": "Hurry Down Sunshine\n\nHurry Down Sunshine is a best-selling 2008 memoir by nonfiction writer Michael Greenberg. The book tells the story of the author's daughter and her battle with mental illness. \n\nThe book received attention for both its literary style and its provocative content. In \"The New York Times\", Rachel Donadio's review focussed on Greenberg's attention to New York City, writing that the work was \"filled with the kind of characters increasingly rare in a city where real kooks can no longer afford to live.\" Cultural critic Jacob Appel praised the memoir \"one of those extremely rare works of literature that operates well as both a love story and a social indictment—without either aspect interfering with the dramatic force of the other.\"\n"}
{"id": "24785779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24785779", "title": "Jacob Arlow", "text": "Jacob Arlow\n\nJacob Arlow (1912–2004) was an American teacher, scholar, and clinician who served as president of the American Psychoanalytic Association and the New York Psychoanalytic Institute.\n\nArlow was an editor of the \"Psychoanalytic Quarterly\" from 1972 to 1979; and published several articles on psychoanalysis, as well as writing a history of psychoanalytic history, and co-authoring with Charles Brenner the influential text \"Psychoanalytic Concepts and the Structural Theory\".\n\nIn perhaps his most significant theoretical contribution to psychoanalysis, Arlow explored the role of unconscious fantasy from the point of view of ego psychology, both subsuming its use in Kleinian theory, and providing the building block for Brenner's later development of conflict theory.\n\nHis earlier article on 'Fantasy Systems in Twins' (1960) was used by Maynard Solomon to illuminate the inner development of Beethoven, Arlow observing that the “bond of complete understanding which is missing with the parent unites the twins in the wish fantasy...The existence of another individual who is a reflection of the self brings the experience of twinship in line with the psychology of the double”.\n\nHe also explored the role of myth in bridging the gap between individual instinctual conflicts and cultural ideals.\n\nArlow insisted on the limitations of psychoanalysis, inherent both in its technique and in the human experience itself, and warned against any quest for perfection through psychoanalysis.\n\nHeinz Kohut in his self psychology would challenge the Arlow/Brenner belief that narcissistic personality disorder could be understood within the methodology of the transference neurosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "34009798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34009798", "title": "June Jackson Christmas", "text": "June Jackson Christmas\n\nDr June Jackson Christmas is a psychiatrist, a former New York City Commissioner of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services, member of President Jimmy Carter transition team, the beneficiary of Human-Services Award, the founder of a community psychiatric program in Harlem - Harlem Rehabilitation Center. Dr. Christmas served as a member of Governor Mario Cuomo's Advisory Committee on Black Affairs.\n\nDr. Christmas has served as vice-president of the American Psychiatric Association and the president of the Public Health Association of NYC. In 1999, she received the Lifetime Achievement Award by the National Medical Fellowships. She also was a member of Vassar's Board of Trustees from 1978 to 1989. She is a former executive director of the Urban Issues Group, an organization with focus on issues specific to New Yorkers of African descent.\n\nDr. June Jackson Christmas was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She graduated from Vassar College and the Boston University School of Medicine. She left private practice to set up the Harlem Hospital Rehabilitation Center and to teach at Columbia University. Her achievements with the Rehabilitation Center were later honored with awards:\n\nDr. Christmas was appointed Commissioner of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services on August 16, 1972, by New York Mayor John Lindsay. In 1976 she was part of the Jimmy Carter presidential campaign as a health advisor, and subsequently as part the Carter transition team, leading the transition of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare from Republican to Democratic hands. In 1978 Mayor Ed Koch reappointed Christmas as the city's Commissioner of Mental Health, Mental Retardation.\n"}
{"id": "33567030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33567030", "title": "Kerala Nurses and Midwives Council", "text": "Kerala Nurses and Midwives Council\n\nThe Kerala Nurses and Midwives Council was established in 1953 under the provisions of Nurses and Midwives Act and works as an autonomous body under the Government of Kerala, Department of Health and Family Welfare. It is a regulatory body for nurses and education in nursing in Kerala and It is monitored by Indian Nursing Council. The main functions of the council are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11711372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11711372", "title": "Latrepirdine", "text": "Latrepirdine\n\nLatrepirdine (INN, also known as dimebolin and sold as Dimebon), is an antihistamine drug which has been used clinically in Russia since 1983.\n\nResearch was conducted in both Russia and western nations into potential applications as a neuroprotective drug to treat Alzheimer's disease and, possibly, as a nootropic, as well. After a major phase III clinical trial for Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment failed to show any benefit, three other AD trials continued. Major industry-based development in this indication essentially stopped after another Phase III trial suffered the same fate in 2012. Latrepirdine failed in the phase III trial for Huntington disease.\n\nLatrepirdine is an orally active, small molecule compound that has been shown to inhibit brain cell death in animal models of Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. Research suggests it may also have cognition-enhancing effects in healthy individuals, in the absence of neurodegenerative disease pathology. However, because of negative results in human clinical trials, the drug remains unlicensed for any neurodegenerative condition.\n\nLatrepirdine attracted renewed interest in 2009 after being shown in small preclinical trials to have positive effects on persons suffering from Alzheimer's disease. Animal studies showing potential beneficial effects on Alzheimer's disease models were shown in Russian research in 2000. Preliminary results from human trials have also been promising. In an initial six-month phase II trial, results have shown significant improvement over placebo at 12 months. Latrepirdine showed promising results in a phase III-equivalent, double-blind trial in Russia with mild–moderate stage patients. In April 2009, Pfizer and Medivation initiated a phase III trial (CONCERT study) aiming for FDA approval. In March 2010, Pfizer announced that this clinical trial failed to show any benefit for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease patients.\n\nNumerous phase III trials for AD were recruiting in 2009.\n\nIn July 2009, Pfizer and Medivation announced that \"latrepirdine\" was to be the proposed international nonproprietary name for latrepirdine for the treatment of Alzheimer's.\n\nIn March 2010, the results of a clinical trial phase III were released; the investigational Alzheimer's disease drug dimebon failed in the pivotal CONNECTION trial of patients with mild-to-moderate disease.\n\nWith CONCERT, the remaining Pfizer and Medivation Phase III trial for latrepirdine in Alzheimer's disease failed in 2012, effectively ending the development in this indication.\n\nA Cochrane meta-analysis of the three pivotal phase III efficacy trials found no significant effect of latrepirdine on cognition and function in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's patients, though there appears to be a modest benefit for overall behavior disturbances.\n\nIn April 2011, latrepirdine failed in a phase III clinical trial of patients affected with Huntington's disease. The trial was sponsored by Medivation Inc. and Pfizer.\n\nLatrepirdine appears to operate through multiple mechanisms of action, both blocking the action of neurotoxic beta-amyloid proteins and inhibiting L-type calcium channels, modulating the action of AMPA and NMDA glutamate receptors, and may exert a neuroprotective effect by blocking a novel target that involves mitochondrial pores, which are believed to play a role in the cell death that is associated with neurodegenerative diseases and the aging process. It also blocks a number of other receptors, including α-adrenergic, 5-HT, 5-HT, and 5-HT. It is of significance to note latrepirdine lacks any anticholinergic effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "39060340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39060340", "title": "List of Permanent Representatives of the United Kingdom to the United Nations in Geneva", "text": "List of Permanent Representatives of the United Kingdom to the United Nations in Geneva\n\nThe United Kingdom's Permanent Representative to the United Nations and Other International Organisations in Geneva is the United Kingdom's Permanent Representative to the United Nations Office at Geneva and other international organisations based in Geneva including the World Trade Organization, the International Organization for Migration, the International Committee of the Red Cross and other non-governmental organizations. Permanent Representatives normally hold the personal rank of Ambassador. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35458791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35458791", "title": "List of countries with universal health care", "text": "List of countries with universal health care\n\nUniversal health coverage is a broad concept that has been implemented in several ways. The common denominator for all such programs is some form of government action aimed at extending access to health care as widely as possible and setting minimum standards. Most implement universal health care through legislation, regulation and taxation. Legislation and regulation direct what care must be provided, to whom, and on what basis. \n\nUsually some costs are borne by the patient at the time of consumption but the bulk of costs come from a combination of compulsory insurance and tax revenues. Some programs are paid for entirely out of tax revenues. In others tax revenues are used either to fund insurance for the very poor or for those needing long term chronic care. In some cases, government involvement also includes directly managing the health care system, but many countries use mixed public-private systems to deliver universal health care.\n\nThe UN has adopted a resolution on universal health care. It may be the next stage after the Millennium Development Goals.\n\nAlgeria operates a public healthcare system. It is a universal healthcare system as well. A network of hospitals, clinics, and dispensaries provide treatment to the population, with the Social Security system funding health services, although many people must still cover part of their costs due to the rates paid by the Social Security system unchanged since 1987. The poor are generally entitled to health services free of charge, while the wealthy pay for treatment according to a sliding scale.\n\nBotswana operates a system of public medical centers, with 98% of health facilities in the country run by the government. All citizens are entitled to be treated in public facilities free of charge, though a nominal fee of ~70 BWP (~$6.60 USD) is typically charged for public health services except for sexual reproductive health services and antiretroviral therapy services, which are free.\n\nBurkina Faso provides universal healthcare to citizens through a system called Universal Health Insurance (AMU)—administered by two bodies, one for civilians and the other for the armed forces.\n\nEgypt operates a system of public hospitals and clinics through the Ministry of Health. Egyptian citizens can receive treatment at these facilities free of charge. However, those Egyptians who can afford it prefer to pay out of pocket for private healthcare.\n\nGhana operates the National Health Insurance Scheme to provide citizens with health insurance. The level of premiums citizens must pay varies according to their level of income. Most medical facilities are run directly by the Ministry of Health or Ghana Health Service.\n\nThe Government of Mauritius operates a system of medical facilities that provide treatment to citizens free of charge.\n\nMorocco operates a public health sector run by the government that operates 85% of the country's hospital beds. It deals mainly with the poor and rural populations, who cannot afford private healthcare. In addition, a non-profit health sector operated by the National Social Security Fund covers 16% of the population. Private medical care is available for those who can afford it.\n\nRwanda operates a system of universal health insurance through the Ministry of Health called Mutuelle de Santé (Mutual Health), a system of community-based insurance where people pay premiums based on their income level into local health insurance funds, with the wealthiest paying the highest premiums and required to cover a small percentage of their medical expenses, while those at the lowest income levels are exempt from paying premiums and can still utilize the services of their local health fund. In 2012, this system insured all but 4% of the population.\n\nThe Government of Seychelles operates a system of medical facilities that provide treatment to citizens free of charge.\n\nSouth Africa has a public healthcare system that provides services to the vast majority of the population, though it is chronically underfunded and understaffed, and a private system that is far better equipped, which covers the wealthier sectors of society.\n\nTunisia operates a public healthcare system under the National Health Insurance Fund (\"Caisse Nationale d'Assurance Maladie\"). All Tunisian citizens and residents can receive treatment in state-run hospitals and clinics free of charge.\n\nCountries and regions that provide public healthcare in Asia include Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bahrain, China, Hong Kong, India, Iran, Israel (see below), Jordan, Kazakhstan, Macau (see below), Malaysia, Mongolia, Oman, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Taiwan (R.O.C.) (see below), Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan.\n\nThe Royal Government of Bhutan maintains a policy of free and universal access to primary health care. As hospital facilities in the country are limited, patients with diseases that cannot be treated in Bhutan, such as cancer, are normally referred to hospitals in India for treatment. Such referral treatment is also carried out at the cost of the Royal Government.\n\nIn 2013, Georgia adopted a universal health care system.\n\nHong Kong has early health education, professional health services, and well-developed health care and medication system. The life expectancy is 84 for females and 78 for males, which is the second highest in the world, and 2.94 infant mortality rate, the fourth lowest in the world.\n\nThere are two medical schools in Hong Kong, and several schools offering courses in traditional Chinese medicine. The Hospital Authority is a statutory body that operates and manages all public hospitals. Hong Kong has high standards of medical practice. It has contributed to the development of liver transplantation, being the first in the world to carry out an adult to adult live donor liver transplant in 1993.\n\nIndia's healthcare system is dominated by the private sector, although there are various public healthcare systems like Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana in Maharashtra that provides free healthcare to those below the poverty line. Currently, the majority of Indian citizens do not have health insurance, and must pay out of pocket for treatment. There are government hospitals that provide treatment at taxpayer expense. Some essential drugs are offered free of charge in these hospitals.\n\nAn outpatient card at AIIMS costs a one-time fee of 10 rupees (around 20 cents U.S.) and thereafter outpatient medical advice is free. In-hospital treatment costs depend on the financial condition of the patient and the facilities utilized, but are usually much less than the private sector. For instance, a patient is waived treatment costs if their income is below the poverty line. However, getting treatment at high quality government hospitals is very tough due to the high number of people needing healthcare and the lack of sufficient facilities.\n\nPrimary health care is provided by city and district hospitals and rural primary health centres (PHCs). These hospitals provide treatment free of cost, but only if they are functional. Primary care is focused on immunization, prevention of malnutrition, pregnancy, child birth, postnatal care, and treatment of common illnesses. Patients who receive specialized care or have complicated illnesses are referred to secondary (often located in district and taluk headquarters) and tertiary care hospitals (located in district and state headquarters or those that are teaching hospitals).\n\nNow organizations like Hindustan Latex Family Planning Promotional Trust and other private organizations have started creating hospitals and clinics in India, which also provide free or subsidized health care and subsidized insurance plans.\n\nThe government-run healthcare suffers from a lack of hygiene; the rich avoid the government hospitals and go to private hospitals. With the advent of privatized healthcare, this situation has changed. India now has medical tourism for people from other countries while its own poor find high-quality healthcare either inaccessible or unaffordable.\n\nThe current Indian government is planning to unveil a national universal healthcare system called the National Health Assurance Mission, which will provide all Indian citizens with insurance coverage for serious illnesses, and free drugs and diagnostic treatments.\n\nIsrael has a system of universal healthcare as set out by the 1995 National Health Insurance Law. The state is responsible for providing health services to all residents of the country, who can register with one of the four national health service funds. To be eligible, a citizen must pay a health insurance tax. Coverage includes medical diagnosis and treatment, preventive medicine, hospitalization (general, maternity, psychiatric and chronic), surgery and transplants, preventive dental care for children, first aid and transportation to a hospital or clinic, medical services at the workplace, treatment for drug abuse and alcoholism, medical equipment and appliances, obstetrics and fertility treatment, medication, treatment of chronic diseases and paramedical services such as physiotherapy and occupational therapy.\n\nIn Israel, the \"National Health Insurance Law\" (or \"National Health Insurance Act\") is the legal framework that enables and facilitates basic, compulsory universal health care. The Knesset put the law into effect on January 1, 1995—basing it on recommendations from a National Committee of Inquiry headed by Shoshana Netanyahu, which examined restructuring the health care system in Israel in the late 1980s. Prior to the law's passage, over 90% of the population was already covered by voluntarily belonging to one of four nationwide, not-for-profit sickness funds. These operated some of their own medical facilities, funded in part by employers and the government, and in part by the insured via levies that varied according to income. However, there were three problems associated with this arrangement. First, membership in the largest fund, Clalit, required one to belong to the Histadrut labor organization, even if a person did not want to (or could not) have such an affiliation, and other funds restricted entry to new members based on age, pre-existing conditions, or other factors. Second, different funds provided different levels of benefit coverage or services to their members. Lastly, some of the population, albeit a small percentage, had no health insurance.\n\nBefore the law went into effect, all the funds collected premiums directly from members. However, upon passage of the law, a new progressive national health insurance tax was levied through Bituah Leumi (Israel's social security agency), which then re-distributes the proceeds to the sickness funds based on their membership and its demographic makeup. This ensured that \"all\" citizens would now have health coverage. While membership in one of the funds now became compulsory for all, free choice was introduced into movement of members between funds (a change is allowed once every six months), effectively making the various sickness funds compete equally for members among the populace. Annually, a committee appointed by the ministry of health publishes a \"basket\" or uniform package of medical services and prescription formulary that all funds must provide as a minimum to all members. Achieving this level of equality guaranteed basic healthcare regardless of fund affiliation, which was one of the principal aims of the law. An appeals process handles rejection of treatments and procedures by the funds and evaluates cases that fall outside the \"basket\" of services or prescription formulary.\n\nThe law is generally considered a success, and Israeli citizens enjoy a high standard of medical care comparatively, with more competition in the country's health care, and order has been brought to what was once a somewhat disorganized system—however, the law has its critics. First among the criticisms is that the \"basket\" may not provide enough coverage. To partly address this, the HMOs and insurance companies began offering \"supplementary\" insurance to cover certain additional services not in the basket. However, since this insurance is optional (though usually very modestly priced, costing the equivalent of about US$10 to $20 a month), critics argue that it goes against the spirit of the new law, which stressed equality of healthcare for all citizens. Another criticism is that, to provide universal coverage to all, the tax income base amount (the maximum amount of yearly earnings that are subject to the tax) was set rather high, causing many high-income taxpayers to see the amount they pay for their health premiums (now health tax) skyrocket. Finally, some complain about the constantly rising costs of copayments for certain services.\n\nMacau offers universally accessible single-payer system funded by taxes. Health care is provided by the Bureau for Health.\n\nAasandha is the national healthcare insurance scheme of the Maldives. It provide taxpayer-funded medical assistance to all Maldivian Citizens. National Social Protection Agency Of Maldives.formed under the National Social Health Insurance Act on 27 August 2008 is mandated to administer the National Social Health Insurance Scheme and by an executive order under the same act mandated to conduct social protection programs identified by the government of Maldives. NSPA is also the responsible agency to regulate and conduct Social Protection programs under the Social Protection Act.\n\nSince the founding of the People's Republic of China, the goal of health care programs has been to provide care to every member of the population and to make maximum use of limited health-care personnel, equipment, and financial resources.\n\nChina is undertaking a reform on its health care system, which was largely privatized in the 1990s. The New Rural Co-operative Medical Care System (NRCMCS), is a new 2005 initiative to overhaul the healthcare system, particularly intended to make it more affordable for the rural poor. Under the NRCMCS, the annual cost of medical coverage is 50 yuan (US$7) per person. Of that, 20 yuan is paid in by the central government, 20 yuan by the provincial government and a contribution of 10 yuan is made by the patient. As of September 2007, around 80% of the whole rural population of China had signed up (about 685 million people). The system is tiered, depending on the location. If patients go to a small hospital or clinic in their local town, the scheme covers from 70–80% of their bill. If they go to a county one, the percentage of the cost being covered falls to about 60%. And if they need specialist help in a large modern city hospital, they have to bear most of the cost themselves, the scheme would cover about 30% of the bill.\n\nOn January 21, 2009, the Chinese government announced it would provide 850 billion yuan (US$127.5 billion) between 2009 and 2011 to improve the existing health care system.\n\nAt the end of 2008, the government published its reform plan clarifying government's responsibility by saying that it would play a dominant role in providing public health and basic medical service. It declared \"Both central and local governments should increase health funding. The percentage of government's input in total health expenditure should be increased gradually so that the financial burden of individuals can be reduced,\" The plan listed public health, rural areas, city community health services and basic medical insurance as four key areas for government investment. It also promised to tighten government control over medical fees in public hospitals and to set up a \"basic medicine system\" to quell public complaints of rising drug costs.\n\nThe plan was passed by the Chinese Cabinet in January 2009. The long-awaited medical reform plan promised to spend 850 billion yuan by 2011 to provide universal medical service and that measures would be taken to provide basic medical security to all Chinese.\n\nSingapore has a universal health care system where government ensures affordability, largely through compulsory savings and price controls, while the private sector provides most care. Overall spending on health care amounts to only 3% of annual GDP. Of that, 66% comes from private sources. Singapore currently has the second lowest infant mortality rate in the world and among the highest life expectancies from birth, according to the World Health Organization. Singapore has \"one of the most successful healthcare systems in the world, in terms of both efficiency in financing and the results achieved in community health outcomes,\" according to an analysis by global consulting firm Watson Wyatt. Singapore's system uses a combination of compulsory savings from payroll deductions (funded by both employers and workers) a nationalized health insurance plan, and government subsidies, as well as \"actively regulating the supply and prices of healthcare services in the country\" to keep costs in check; the specific features have been described as potentially a \"very difficult system to replicate in many other countries.\" Many Singaporeans also have supplemental private health insurance (often provided by employers) for services not covered by the government's programs.\n\nSri Lanka provides free universal healthcare to their citizens.\n\nThe current health care system in Taiwan, known as National Health Insurance (NHI), was instituted in 1995. NHI is a single-payer compulsory social insurance plan that centralizes the disbursement of health care dollars. The system promises equal access to health care for all citizens, and the population coverage had reached 99% by the end of 2004. NHI is mainly financed through premiums based on the payroll tax, and is supplemented with out-of-pocket payments and direct government funding. In the initial stage, fee-for-service predominated for both public and private providers.\n\nNHI delivers universal coverage offered by a government-run insurer. The working population pays premiums split with their employers, others pay a flat rate with government help and the poor or veterans are fully subsidized.\n\nUnder this model, citizens have free range to choose hospitals and physicians without using a gatekeeper and do not have to worry about waiting lists. NHI offers a comprehensive benefit package that covers preventive medical services, prescription drugs, dental services, Chinese medicine, home nurse visits and many more. Since NHI, the previously uninsured have increased their usage of medical services. Most preventive services are free such as annual checkups and maternal and child care. Regular office visits have co-payments as low as US $5 per visit. Co-payments are fixed and unvaried by the person's income.\n\nThailand introduced universal coverage reforms in 2001, becoming one of only a handful of lower-middle income countries to do so at the time. Means-tested health care for low income households was replaced by a new and more comprehensive insurance scheme, originally known as the 30 baht project, in line with the small co-payment charged for treatment. People joining the scheme receive a gold card that they use to access services in their health district, and, if necessary, get referrals for specialist treatment elsewhere. The bulk of finance comes from public revenues, with funding allocated to Contracting Units for Primary Care annually on a population basis. According to the WHO, 65% of Thailand's health care expenditure in 2004 came from the government, 35% was from private sources. Although the reforms have received a good deal of critical comment, they have proved popular with poorer Thais, especially in rural areas, and survived the change of government after the 2006 military coup. The then Public Health Minister, Mongkol Na Songkhla, abolished the 30 baht co-payment and made the UC scheme free. It is not yet clear whether the scheme will be modified further under the coalition government that came to power in January 2008.\n\nIn 2016, Thailand became the first country in Asia to eliminate HIV transmission from mother to child, owing to its robust public healthcare system.\n\nVirtually all of Europe has either publicly sponsored and regulated universal health care or publicly provided universal healthcare. The public plans in some countries provide basic or \"sick\" coverage only, with their citizens being able to purchase supplemental insurance for additional coverage. Countries with universal health care include Austria, Belarus, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom.\n\nHealthcare in Austria is universal for residents of Austria as well as those from other EU countries. Austria has a two-tier health care system in which many individuals receive publicly funded care; they also have the option to purchase supplementary private health insurance.\n\nHealthcare in Belgium is composed of three parts. Firstly there is a primarily publicly funded healthcare and social security service run by the federal government, which organises and regulates healthcare; independent private/public practitioners, university/semi-private hospitals and care institutions. There are a few (commercially run for-profit) private hospitals. Secondly is the insurance coverage provided for patients. Finally, industry coverage covers the production and distribution of healthcare products for research and development. The primary aspect of this research is done in universities and hospitals.\n\nCroatia has a universal health care system that provides high quality medical services and is coordinated by the Ministry of Health. The population is covered by a basic health insurance plan provided by statute and optional insurance and administered by the Croatian Health Insurance Fund. In 2012, annual compulsory healthcare related expenditures reached 21.0 billion kunas (c. 2.8 billion euro). There are hundreds of healthcare institutions in Croatia, including 79 hospitals and clinics with 25,285 beds, caring for more than 760 thousand patients per year, 5,792 private practice offices and 79 emergency medical service units.\n\nCzech Republic has a universal public health system paid largely from taxation. Private health care systems do co-exist freely alongside public ones, sometimes offering better quality or faster service. Almost all medical services are covered by health insurance and insurance companies, though certain services such as prescription drugs or vision and dental care are only covered partially.\n\nDenmark has a universal public health system paid largely from taxation with local municipalities delivering health care services in the same way as other Scandinavian countries. Primary care is provided by a general practitioner service run by private doctors contracting with the local municipalities with payment on a mixed per capita and fee for service basis. Most hospitals are run by the municipalities (only 1% of hospital beds are in the private sector).\n\nIn Finland, public medical services at clinics and hospitals are run by the municipalities (local government) and are funded 76% by taxation, 20% by patients through access charges, and 4% by others. Private provision is mainly in the primary care sector. There are a few private hospitals. The main hospitals are either municipally owned (funded from local taxes) or run by the medical teaching universities (funded jointly by the municipalities and the national government). According to a survey published by the European Commission in 2000, Finland's is in the top 4 of EU countries in terms of satisfaction with their hospital care system: 88% of Finnish respondents were satisfied compared with the EU average of 41.3%. Finnish health care expenditures are below the European average. The private medical sector accounts for about 14 percent of total health care spending. Only 8% of doctors choose to work in private practice, and some of these also choose to do some work in the public sector.\n\nTaxation funding is partly local and partly nationally based. The national social insurance institution KELA reimburses part of patients prescription costs and makes a contribution towards private medical costs (including dentistry) if they choose to be treated in the private sector rather than the public sector. Patient access charges are subject to annual caps. For example, GP visits cost €11 per visit with annual €33 cap; hospital outpatient treatment €22 per visit; a hospital stay, including food, medical care and medicines €26 per 24 hours, or €12 if in a psychiatric hospital. After a patient has spent €590 per year on public medical services (including prescription drugs), all treatment and medications thereafter in that year are free.\n\nFinland has a highly decentralized three-level public system of health care and alongside this, a much smaller private health-care system.\nOverall, the municipalities (funded by taxation, local and national) meet about two thirds of all medical-care costs, with the remaining one third paid by the national insurance system (nationally funded), and by private finance (either employer-funded or met by patients themselves).\nPrivate inpatient care forms about 3–4% of all inpatient care. In 1999 only 17 per cent of total funding for health care came from insurance, comprising 14.9% statutory (government) insurance and 2.1% private health insurance. Spectacles are not publicly subsidized at all, although dentistry is available as a municipal service or can be obtained privately with partial reimbursement from the state. The government announced in 2009 that Kela would re-imburse the cost of private dental-hygiene work, starting in 2010.\n\nThe percentage of total health expenditure financed by taxation in Finland (78%) is above the OECD average and similar to the levels seen in Germany (77%) and France (80%) but below the level seen in the UK (87%). The quality of service in Finnish health care, as measured by patient satisfaction, is excellent. According to a survey published by the European Commission in 2000, Finland has one of the highest ratings of patient satisfaction with their hospital care system in the EU: 88% of Finnish respondents were satisfied compared with the EU average of 41.3%.\n\nThere are caps on total medical expenses that are met out-of-pocket for drugs and hospital treatments. The National Insurance system pays all necessary costs over these caps. Public spending on health care in 2006 was 13.6 billion euros (equivalent to US$338 per person per month). The increase over 2005 at 8.2 per cent was below the OECD average of 9 percent. Household budgets directly met 18.7 per cent of all health-care costs.\n\nFrance has a system of universal health care largely financed by government through a system of national health insurance. Nonetheless, not all medical care is paid for by the state, with only 70% of initial GP care covered and anywhere between 35% and 100% of prescription medication covered. It is consistently ranked as one of the best in the world.\n\nGermany has the world's oldest national social health insurance system, with origins dating back to Otto von Bismarck's Sickness Insurance Law of 1883. The system is decentralized with private practice physicians providing ambulatory care, and independent, mostly non-profit hospitals providing the majority of inpatient care. Approximately 92% of the population is covered by a 'Statutory Health Insurance' plan, which provides a standardized level of coverage through any one of approximately 1100 public or private sickness funds. Standard insurance is funded by a combination of employee contributions, employer contributions and government subsidies on a scale determined by income level. Higher income workers sometimes choose to pay a tax and opt out of the standard plan, in favor of 'private' insurance. The latter's premiums are not linked to income level but instead to health status.\n\nHistorically, the level of provider reimbursement for specific services is determined through negotiations between regional physician's associations and sickness funds. Since 1976 the government has convened an annual commission, composed of representatives of business, labor, physicians, hospitals, and insurance and pharmaceutical industries. The commission takes into account government policies and makes recommendations to regional associations with respect to overall expenditure targets. In 1986 expenditure caps were implemented and were tied to the age of the local population as well as the overall wage increases. Although reimbursement of providers is on a fee-for-service basis the amount to be reimbursed for each service is determined retrospectively to ensure that spending targets are not exceeded. Capitated care, such as that provided by U.S. health maintenance organizations, has been considered as a cost containment mechanism but would require consent of regional medical associations, and has not materialized. Copayments were introduced in the 1980s in an attempt to prevent overutilization and control costs. The average length of hospital stay in Germany has decreased in recent years from 14 days to 9 days, still considerably longer than average stays in the U.S. (5 to 6 days). The difference is partly driven by the fact that hospital reimbursement is chiefly a function of the number of hospital days as opposed to procedures or the patient's diagnosis. Drug costs have increased substantially, rising nearly 60% from 1991 through 2005. Despite attempts to contain costs, overall health care expenditures rose to 10.7% of GDP in 2005, comparable to other western European nations, but substantially less than that spent in the U.S. (nearly 16% of GDP).\n\nThe Greek healthcare system provides high quality medical services to insured citizens and is coordinated by the Ministry for Health and Social Solidarity. Public health services are provided by the National Healthcare Service, or ESY (). In 2010 there were 35,000 hospital beds and 131 hospitals in the country.\n\nThe Greek healthcare system has received high rankings by the World Health Organization, ranked 14th in the overall assessment and 11th in quality of service in a 2000 report by the WHO.\n\nThe medical care system in the Channel Islands is very similar to that of the UK in that many of the doctors and nurses have been trained from the UK health perspective. There is universal health care for residents of the islands.\n\nIceland has a universal public health system paid largely from taxation with local municipalities delivering health care services in the same way as other Scandinavian countries. Iceland's entire population has equal access to health care services.\n\nThe public health care system of the Republic of Ireland is governed by the Health Act 2004, which established a new body to be responsible for providing health and personal social services to everyone living in Ireland – the Health Service Executive. The new national health service came into being officially on January 1, 2005; however, the new structures are currently in the process of being established as the reform program continues. In addition to the public-sector, there is a large private health care market.\n\nIn Ireland, 37% of the population have a means tested medical card that gives the holder access to tax-funded GP care and requires €2.50 for each prescription drug. Otherwise the average price for an appointment with a family doctor is €50.\n\nThe Isle of Man provides universal public health coverage to its residents.\n\nItaly has a public health care service for all the residents called \"Servizio Sanitario Nazionale\" or SSN (National Health Service). It is similar to the UK National Health Service. It is publicly run and funded mostly from taxation. Some services require variable co-pays, while other services (like emergency medicine and a general doctor) are free. Like the UK, there is a small parallel private health care system, especially in the field of Dental Medicine and Ophthalmology.\n\nLuxembourg provides universal health care coverage to all residents (Luxembourgers and foreigners) by the National Health Insurance (CNS - \"Caisse nationale de santé\" (French) or \"National Gesondheetskeess\" (Luxembourgish)). It is funded by mandatory contributions of employers and the workforce, and by government subsidies for insuring jobseekers, the poor, and for financing medical infrastructure. The nation also has mandatory public long-term care insurance.\n\nThe Netherlands has a dual-level system. All primary and curative care (family doctors, hospitals, and clinics) is financed from private compulsory insurance. Long term care for the elderly, the dying, the long term mentally ill etc. is covered by social insurance funded from taxation. According to the WHO, the health care system in the Netherlands was 62% government funded and 38% privately funded as of 2004.\n\nInsurance companies must offer a core universal insurance package for universal primary, curative care, including the cost of all prescription medicines. They must do this at a fixed price for all. People pay the same premium whether young or old, healthy or sick. It is illegal in The Netherlands for insurers to refuse an application for health insurance, to impose special conditions (e.g., exclusions, deductibles, co-pays etc., or refuse to fund treatments that a doctor has determined are medically necessary). The system is 50% financed from payroll taxes paid by employers to a fund controlled by the Health regulator. The government contributes an additional 5% to the regulator's fund. The remaining 45% is collected as premiums paid by the insured directly to the insurance company. Some employers negotiate bulk deals with health insurers and some even pay the employees' premiums as an employment benefit. All insurance companies receive additional funding from the regulator's fund. The regulator has sight of the claims made by policyholders and therefore can redistribute the funds its holds on the basis of relative claims made by policy holders. Thus insurers with high payouts receive more from the regulator than those with low payouts. Insurance companies have no incentive to deter high cost individuals from taking insurance and are compensated if they have to pay out more than might be expected. Insurance companies compete with each other on price for the 45% direct premium part of the funding and try to negotiate deals with hospitals to keep costs low and quality high. The competition regulator is charged with checking for abuse of dominant market positions and the creation of cartels that act against the consumer interests. An insurance regulator ensures that all basic policies have identical coverage rules so that no person is medically disadvantaged by his or her choice of insurer.\n\nHospitals in the Netherlands are also regulated and inspected but are mostly privately run and not for profit, as are many of the insurance companies. Patients can choose where they want to be treated, and have access to information on the internet about the performance and waiting times at each hospital. Patients dissatisfied with their insurer and choice of hospital can cancel at any time, but must make a new agreement with another insurer.\n\nInsurance companies can offer additional services at extra cost over and above the universal system laid down by the regulator, e.g., for dental care. The standard monthly premium for health care paid by individual adults is about €100 per month. Persons on low incomes can get assistance from the government if they cannot afford these payments. Children under 18 are insured by the system at no additional cost to them or their families because the insurance company receives the cost of this from the regulator's fund. There is a fixed yearly threshold of €375 for each adult person, excluding first visits for diagnosis to general physicians.\n\nNorway has a universal public health system paid largely from taxation in the same way as other Scandinavian countries. Norway's entire population has equal access to health care services. The Norwegian health care system is government-funded and heavily decentralized. The health care system in Norway is financed primarily through taxes levied by county councils and municipalities. Dental care is included for children until 18 years old, and is covered for adults for some ailments.\n\nNorway regularly comes top or close to the top of worldwide healthcare rankings.\n\nPortugal's National Healthcare Service, known nationally as Serviço Nacional de Saúde (SNS), is a universal and free healthcare service provided nationwide since 1979 and available to both Portuguese and foreign residents. In 2014, Portugal SNS ranked 13th best healthcare service in Europe. The National Medical Emergency Institute (INEM) is the main emergency medical serviced and can be activated by calling 112.\n\nAccording to Article 34 of the Constitution of Romania, the state is obliged \"to guarantee the protection of healthcare\". Romania has a fully universal health care system, which covers up medical check-ups, any surgical interventions, and any post-operator medical care, as well as free or subsidized medicine for a range of diseases. The state is also obliged to fund public hospitals and clinics. Dental care is not funded by the state, although there are public dental clinics in some hospitals, which treat patients free of charge. \nHowever, due to inadequate funding and corruption, it is estimated that a third of medical expenses are, in some cases, supported by the patient. Furthermore, Romania spends, per capita, less than any other EU state on medical care.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, the preferred term was \"socialist medicine\"; the Russian language has no term to distinguish between \"socialist\" and \"socialized\" (other than \"public\", Rus: \"obshchestvenniy/общественный\", sometimes \"collectivized\" or \"nationalized\", Rus: \"obobshchestvlenniy/обобществленный\").\n\nRussia in Soviet times (between 1917 and the early 1990s) had a totally socialist model of health care with a centralised, integrated, hierarchically organised with the government providing free health care to all citizens. Initially successful at combating infectious diseases, the effectiveness of the socialized model declined with underinvestment. Despite a doubling in the number of hospital beds and doctors per capita between 1950 and 1980, the quality of care began to decline by the early 1980s and medical care and health outcomes were below western standards.\n\nThe new mixed economy Russia has switched to a mixed model of health care with private financing and provision running alongside state financing and provision. The OECD reported that unfortunately, none of this has worked out as planned and the reforms have in many respects made the system worse. The population's health has deteriorated on virtually every measure. The resulting system is overly complex and very inefficient. It has little in common with the model envisaged by the reformers. Although there are more than 300 private insurers and numerous public ones in the market, real competition for patients is rare leaving most patients with little or no effective choice of insurer, and in many places, no choice of health care provider either. The insurance companies have failed to develop as active, informed purchasers of health care services. Most are passive intermediaries, making money by simply channelling funds from regional OMS funds to healthcare providers.\n\nMain source: OECD: Health care reforms in Russia \n\nArticle 41 of the Constitution of the Russian Federation confirms a citizen's right to state healthcare and medical assistance free of charge. This is achieved through state compulsory medical insurance (OMS), which is free to Russian citizens, funded by obligatory medical insurance payments made by companies and government subsidies. Introduction in 1993 reform of new free market providers in addition to the state-run institutions intended to promote both efficiency and patient choice. A purchaser-provider split help facilitate the restructuring of care, as resources would migrate to where there was greatest demand, reduce the excess capacity in the hospital sector and stimulate the development of primary care. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin announced a new large-scale health care reform in 2011 and pledged to allocate more than 300 billion rubles ($10 billion) in the next few years to improve health care in the country. He also said that obligatory medical insurance tax paid by companies will increase from current 3.1% to 5.1% starting from 2011.\n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that it is a right of every citizen to seek medical assistance free of charge. This is achieved by mutual contribution to the Compulsory Social Healthcare Fund of RZZO (Republički Zavod za Zdravstveno Osiguranje or National Health Insurance Institution). The amount of contribution depends on the amount of money the person is making. During the 1990s, Serbia's healthcare system has been of a poor quality due to severe underfunding. In the recent years, however, that has changed and the Serbian government has invested heavily in new medical infrastructure, completely remodeling existing hospitals and building two new hospitals in Novi Sad and Kragujevac.\n\nSpain enjoys a public universal health care system for all citizens and, under certain conditions, also non-citizens. The system is essentially free except for small, often symbolic co-payments in some products and services; it is mostly paid from the Social Security budget. All services are provided in the extensive and readily available network of public and chartered facilities, so private care bills will not be paid. Adult dental care is not covered but for basic extractions or problems that could result in serious stomatological conditions.\n\nIrrespective of the nationality and insurance situation of the patient, the public system always treats medical emergencies until achieving the best possible outcome. If not covered by the Spanish Social Security (i.e., a visiting foreigner), the provider later negotiates payment with the patient or the patient's insurer. If actually unable to pay, it is covered by the Social Security on humanitarian grounds unless the patient purposely traveled to Spain to get free healthcare. Obvious unexpected emergencies like accidental injuries or sudden illness are customarily covered, but those that could be reasonably expected (e.g., arising from a chronic condition or from avoidable risk-taking) are studied on a case-per-case basis.\n\nPrivate health insurance is available for those who prefer it, and recommended for visitors not covered by the Spanish Social Security or a foreign public or private insurer with overseas coverage.\n\nSweden has a universal public health system paid largely from taxation in the same way as other Scandinavian countries. Sweden's entire population has equal access to health care services. The Swedish public health system is funded through taxes levied by the county councils, but partly run by private companies. Government-paid dental care for those under 21 years old is included in the system. Dental care above a fixed amount is also subsidised.\n\nSweden also has a smaller private health care sector, mainly in larger cities or as centers for preventive health care financed by employers.\n\nSweden regularly comes in top in worldwide healthcare rankings.\n\nHealthcare in Switzerland is universal and is regulated by the Federal Health Insurance Act of 1994. Basic health insurance is mandatory for all persons residing in Switzerland (within three months of taking up residence or being born in the country). Insurers are required to offer insurance to everyone, regardless of age or medical condition. They are not allowed to make a profit off this basic insurance, but can on supplemental plans.\n\nEach of the Countries of the United Kingdom has a National Health Service that provides public healthcare to all UK permanent residents that was originally designed to be free at the point of need and paid for from general taxation; but changes included introducing charging for prescription medicines and dentistry (those below 16 and those on certain benefits may still get free treatment). However, since Health is now a devolved matter, considerable differences are developing between the systems in each of the countries as for example Scotland and Wales abolished prescription charges. Private healthcare companies are free to operate alongside the public one.\n\nThe National Health Service (NHS), created by the National Health Service Act 1946, has provided the majority of healthcare in England since its launch on 5 July 1948.\n\nThe NHS Constitution for England documents, at high level, the objectives of the NHS, the legal rights and responsibilities of the various parties (patients, staff, NHS trust boards), and the guiding principles that govern the service. The NHS constitution makes it clear that it provides a comprehensive service, available to all irrespective of age, gender, disability, race, sexual orientation, religion, or belief; that access to NHS services is based on clinical need and not an individual's ability to pay; and that care is never refused on unreasonable grounds. Patient choice in terms of doctor, care, treatments, and place of treatment is an important aspect of the NHS's ambition, and in some cases patients can elect for treatment in other European countries at the NHS's expense. Waiting times are low, with most people able to see their primary care doctor on the same day or the following day. Only 36.1% of hospital admissions are from a waiting list, with the remainder being either emergencies admitted immediately or else pre-booked admissions or the like (e.g., child birth). One of the main goals of care management is to ensure that patients do not experience a delay of more than 18 weeks from initial hospital referral to final treatment, inclusive of time for all associated investigative tests and consultations. At present, two-thirds of patients are treated in under 12 weeks.\n\nThough centrally funded, the NHS is not managed by a large central bureaucracy. Responsibility is divided among geographical areas through Strategic Health Authorities. Management is distributed even more locally through NHS primary care trusts, NHS hospital trusts—and increasingly to NHS foundation trusts that providing even more decentralized services within the NHS framework, with more decisions left to local people, patients, and staff. The central government office—the Department of Health—is not involved in day-to-day decision making in either the Strategic Health Authorities or the individual local trusts (primarily health, hospital, or ambulance) or the national specialist trusts such as NHS Blood and Transplant. It does lay down general guidelines they must follow. Local trusts are accountable to their local populations, whilst government ministers are accountable to Parliament for the service overall.\n\nThe NHS provides, among other things, primary care, in-patient care, long-term healthcare, psychiatric care and treatments, ophthalmology, and dentistry. All treatment is free with the exception of certain charges for prescriptions, dentistry and ophthalmology (which themselves are free to children, certain students in full-time education, the elderly, the unemployed and those on low incomes). Around 89 pc of NHS prescriptions are obtained free of charge, mostly for children, pensioners, and pregnant women. Others pay a flat rate of £8.80, and others may cap their annual charges by purchasing an NHS Prescription Prepayment Certificate. Private health care has continued parallel to the NHS, paid for largely by private insurance. Private insurance accounts for only 4 percent of health expenditure and covers little more than a tenth of the population. Private insurers in the UK only cover acute care from specialists. They do not cover generalist consultations, pre-existing conditions, medical emergencies, organ transplants, chronic conditions such as diabetes, or conditions such as pregnancy or HIV.\n\nMost NHS general practitioners are private doctors who contract to provide NHS services, but most hospitals are publicly owned and run through NHS Trusts. A few NHS medical services (such as \"surgicentres\") are sub-contracted to private providers as are some non-medical services (such as catering). Some capital projects such as new hospitals have been funded through the Private Finance Initiative, enabling investment without (in the short term) increasing the public sector borrowing requirement, because long-term contractually obligated PFI spending commitments are not counted as government liabilities.\n\nHealth and Social Care in Northern Ireland is the designation of the national public health service in Northern Ireland.\n\nNHS Scotland, created by the National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1947, was also launched on 5 July 1948, although it has always been a separate organization. Since devolution, NHS Scotland has followed the policies and priorities of the Scottish Government, including the phasing out of all prescription charges by 2011.\n\nNHS Wales was originally formed as part of the same NHS structure created by the National Health Service Act 1946 but powers over the NHS in Wales came under the Secretary of State for Wales in 1969, in turn being transferred under devolution to what is now the Welsh Government.\n\nThe Bahamas, Barbados, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba, Mexico, Panama, and Trinidad and Tobago all provide some level of universal health coverage.\n\nThe Bahamas approved the National Health Insurance Act in August 2016. The legislation establishes a universal health coverage system that begins with universal coverage of primary health care services, and later expands to include a wide set of benefits that includes all specialized care. The system allows for universal coverage of a basic benefit package and for voluntary insurance to be purchased as a top-up policy to cover services or amenities that are not included in the government plan.\n\nIn 1984, the Canada Health Act was passed, which prohibited extra billing by doctors on patients while at the same time billing the public insurance system. In 1999, the prime minister and most premiers reaffirmed in the Social Union Framework Agreement that they are committed to health care that has \"comprehensiveness, universality, portability, public administration and accessibility.\"\n\nThe system is for the most part publicly funded, yet most of the services are provided by private enterprises or private corporations, although most hospitals are public. Most doctors do not receive an annual salary, but receive a fee per visit or service. About 29% of Canadians' health care is paid for by the private sector or individuals. This mostly goes towards services not covered or only partially covered by Medicare such as prescription drugs, dentistry and vision care. Many Canadians have private health insurance, often through their employers, that cover these expenses.\n\nThe Canada Health Act of 1984 \"does not directly bar private delivery or private insurance for publicly insured services,\" but provides financial disincentives for doing so. \"Although there are laws prohibiting or curtailing private health care in some provinces, they can be changed,\" according to a report in the New England Journal of Medicine. The legality of the ban was considered in a decision of the Supreme Court of Canada, which ruled in \"Chaoulli v. Quebec\" that \"the prohibition on obtaining private health insurance, while it might be constitutional in circumstances where health care services are reasonable as to both quality and timeliness, is not constitutional where the public system fails to deliver reasonable services.\" The appellant contended that waiting times in Quebec violated a right to life and security in the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. The Court agreed, but acknowledged the importance and validity of the Canada Health Act, and at least four of the seven judges explicitly recognized the right of governments to enact laws and policies that favour the public over the private system and preserve the integrity of the public system.\n\nUniversal healthcare and pensions are run by the Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS). In 1941, Costa Rica established Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social (CCSS), a social security insurance system for wage-earning workers. In 1961, coverage was expanded to include workers’ dependents and from 1961 to 1975, a series of expansions extended coverage for primary care and outpatient and inpatient specialized services to people in rural areas, the low-income population, and certain vulnerable populations. Further expansions during the late 1970s extended insurance coverage to farmers, peasants, and independent contract workers. Additionally, CCSS mandates free health service provision to mothers, children, indigenous people, the elderly, and people living with disabilities, regardless of insurance coverage. By 2000, 82 percent of the population was eligible for CCSS, which has continued to expand in the ensuing period. By covering all population groups through the same system, Costa Rica has avoided social insurance stratification and inequity common in many other countries in the region.\n\nCCSS is funded by a 15 percent payroll tax, as well as payments from retiree pensions [6]. Taxes on luxury goods, alcohol, soda, and imported products also help to cover poor households who do otherwise pay into the system. All CCSS funds are merged into a single pool, which is managed by the central financial administration of CCSS. In 1973, the Ministry of Health decided to move away from direct service provision and adopt a steering role. Responsibility for the provision of most care was transferred to the CCSS, although the Ministry retained responsibility for disease control, food and drug regulation, environmental sanitation, child nutrition, and primary care for the poor. Through the CCSS, health care is now essentially free to nearly all Costa Ricans. Private health care is also widely available and INS offers private health insurance plans to supplement CCSS insurance.\n\nThe Cuban government operates a national health system and assumes fiscal and administrative responsibility for the health care of all its citizens. There are no private hospitals or clinics as all health services are government-run. The present Minister for Public Health is Roberto Morales Ojeda. However, although the coverage is wide, the system is underfunded and recently also understaffed. The government organized medical missions in other countries has taken a very significant number of doctors and other personal. In 2005 there were 25,000 Cuban doctors in Venezuela.\n\nPublic health care delivery is accomplished via an elaborate provisioning and delivery system instituted by the Mexican Federal Government. Public health care is provided to all Mexican citizens as guaranteed via Article 4 of the Constitution. Public care is either fully or partially subsidized by the federal government, depending on the person's (Spanish: derechohabiente's) employment status. All Mexican citizens are eligible for subsidized health care regardless of their work status via a system of health care facilities operating under the federal Secretariat of Health (formerly the Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia, or SSA) agency.\nEmployed citizens and their dependents, however, are further eligible to use the health care program administered and operated by the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS) (English: Mexican Social Security Institute). The IMSS health care program is a tripartite system funded equally by the employee, its private employer, and the federal government. The IMSS does not provide service to employees of the public sector. Employees in the public sector are serviced by the Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado (ISSSTE) (English: Institute for Social Security and Services for State Workers), which attends to the health and social care needs of government employees. This includes local, state, and federal government employees. The government of the states in Mexico also provide health services independently of those services provided by the federal government programs. In most states, the state government has established free or subsidized healthcare to all their citizens.\n\nIn 2006, the Mexican government created the Health Insurance for a New Generation also known as \"life insurance for babies\". On May 28, 2009, Universal Care Coverage for Pregnant Women was introduced.\n\nIn August 2012 Mexico achieved universal healthcare system.\n\nA universal health care system is used in Trinidad and Tobago and is the primary form of health-care available in the country. It is used by the majority of the population seeking medical assistance, as it is free for all citizens.\n\nSince the enactment of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, health insurance coverage has been increasing with the goal of eventually reaching near 100% coverage.\n\nThe United States as a whole does not have a fully implemented universal health care system, but about 92% of its citizens have health insurance coverage as of 2017. Furthermore, Massachusetts became the first state to mandate universal health insurance in 2006. Furthermore, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, sought to have expanded insurance coverage to legal residents by 2014. The act provides for federally mandated health insurance to be implemented in the United States during the 2010–2019 decade with the Federal government subsidizing legal resident households with income up to 400% of the Federal poverty level. This threshold varies according to State and household size, but for an average family of four, subsidies would be available for families whose income was about $88,000 or lower. In June 2010 adults with pre-existing conditions became eligible to join a temporary high-risk pool. In 2014, applicants of the same age began to be able to obtain health insurance at the same published rate regardless of health status — the first time in U.S. history that insurers no longer had the right to load the premium or deny coverage prior to contract, or cancel a policy after contract due to an adverse health condition, or test result indicating that one may be imminent. The law prohibits insurers from capping their liability for a person's health care needs, a move expected to rectify medically induced bankruptcy. As of October 7, 2016, the U.S. uninsured rate fell to 10.9% from the 14.6% recorded when President Obama came into office. During the debates about proposed Obamacare, more and more Americans dropped their existing insurance in hopes of something better from Obama's plan, and the uninsured rate peaked at 17.1% just before Obamacare, the Affordable Care Act, started its \"exchanges\" and made the new plans available. 85.4% of Americans had insurance when Obama entered office; 89.1% had insurance by the time he left office.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office and related government agencies scored the cost of a universal health care system several times since 1991, and have uniformly predicted cost savings, partly from the elimination of insurance company overhead costs. In 2009, a universal health care proposal was pending in Congress, the United States National Health Care Act (H.R. 676, formerly the \"Medicare for All Act\").\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that the bill would reduce the number of nonelderly people who are uninsured by about 32 million, leaving about 23 million nonelderly residents uninsured (about one-third of whom would be illegal immigrants). Under the legislation, the share of legal nonelderly residents with insurance coverage would rise from about 83 percent in 2010 to about 94 percent by 2019.\n\nIn May 2011, the state of Vermont became the first state to pass legislation establishing a single-payer health care system. The legislation, known as Act 48, establishes health care in the state as a \"human right\" and lays the responsibility on the state to provide a health care system that meets the needs of the citizens of Vermont. The proposal was shelved not long after the main provisions of the law took effect in 2014. A revised estimate in July 2012 by the CBO stated 30 million people would gain access to health insurance under the law.\n\nDiscussion in the United States commonly uses the term socialized medicine to impart a pejorative meaning to the idea of universal health care.\n\nArgentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela all have public universal health care provided.\n\nHealth care is provided through a combination of employer and labor union-sponsored plans (Obras Sociales), government insurance plans, public hospitals and clinics and through private health insurance plans. It costs almost 10% of GDP and is available to anyone regardless of ideology, beliefs, race or nationality.\n\nThe universal health care system was adopted in Brazil in 1988 after the end of the military regime's rule. However, universalized/socialized health care was available many years before, in some cities, once the 27th amendment to the 1969 Constitution imposed the duty of applying 6% of their income in healthcare on the municipalities.\n\nHealth care in Chile is provided by the government (via Fonasa) and by private insurers (via Isapre). All workers and pensioners are mandated to pay 7% of their income for health care insurance (the poorest pensioners are exempt from this payment). Workers who choose not to join an Isapre, are automatically covered by Fonasa. Fonasa also covers unemployed people receiving unemployment benefits, uninsured pregnant women, insured worker's dependant family, people with mental or physical disabilities and people who are considered poor or indigent.\n\nFonasa costs vary depending on income, disability or age. Attention at public health facilities via Fonasa is free for low-income earners, people with mental or physical disabilities and people over the age of 60. Others pay 10% or 20% of the costs, depending on income and number of dependants. Fonasa beneficiaries may also seek attention in the private sector, for a designated fee.\n\nAdditionally, there are a number of high-mortality illnesses (currently 69) that have special attention guarantees for both Isapre and Fonasa affiliates, in relation to access to treatment, waiting times, maximum costs and quality of service.\n\nIn 1993 a reform transformed the health care system in Colombia, trying to provide a better, sustainable, health care system and to reach every Colombian citizen.\n\nOn April 10, 2009, the Government of Peru published the Law on Health Insurance to enable all Peruvians to access quality health services, and contribute to regulate the financing and supervision of these services. The law enables all population to access diverse health services to prevent illnesses, and promote and rehabilitate people, under a Health Basic Plan (PEAS).\n\nOn April 2, 2010, President Alan Garcia Perez on Friday signed a supreme ordinance approving the regulations for the framework law on the Universal Health Insurance, which seeks to provide access to quality health care for all Peruvian citizens.\n\nPeru's Universal Health Insurance law aims to increase access to timely and quality health care services, emphasizes maternal and child health promotion, and provides the poor with protection from financial ruin due to illness.\n\nThe regulation states that membership of the Universal Health Insurance (AUS for its Spanish acronym) is compulsory for the entire population living in the country. To that end, the Ministry of Health will approve, by supreme ordinance, the mechanisms leading to compulsory membership, as well as escalation and implementation.\n\nAustralia and New Zealand have universal health care.\n\nIn Australia, Medibank — as it was then known — was introduced, by the Whitlam Labor government on July 1, 1975, through the Health Insurance Act 1973. The Australian Senate rejected the changes multiple times and they were passed only after a joint sitting after the 1974 double dissolution election. However, Medibank was supported by the subsequent Fraser Coalition (Australia) government and became a key feature of Australia's public policy landscape. The exact structure of Medibank/Medicare, in terms of the size of the rebate to doctors and hospitals and the way it has administered, has varied over the years. The original Medibank program proposed a 1.35% levy (with low income exemptions) but these bills were rejected by the Senate, and so Medibank was funded from general taxation. In 1976, the Fraser Government introduced a 2.5% levy and split Medibank in two: a universal scheme called Medibank Public and a government-owned private health insurance company, Medibank Private.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Medibank Public was renamed Medicare by the Hawke Labor government, which also changed the funding model, to an income tax surcharge, known as the Medicare Levy, which was set at 1.5%, with exemptions for low income earners. The Howard Coalition government introduced an additional levy of 1.0%, known as the Medicare Levy Surcharge, for those on high annual incomes ($70,000) and do not have adequate levels of private hospital coverage. This was part of an effort by the Coalition to encourage take-up of private health insurance. According to WHO, government funding covered 67.5% of Australia's health care expenditures in 2004; private sources covered the remaining 32.5% of expenditures.\n\nAs with Australia, New Zealand's healthcare system is funded through general taxation. According to the WHO, government sources covered 77.4% of New Zealand's health care costs in 2004; private expenditures covered the remaining 22.6%.\n\n"}
{"id": "36287931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36287931", "title": "Marian University College of Osteopathic Medicine", "text": "Marian University College of Osteopathic Medicine\n\nThe Marian University College of Osteopathic Medicine is a private, non-profit medical school for osteopathic medicine located in Indianapolis, in the U.S. state of Indiana. It is one of the colleges at Marian University, and the first osteopathic medical school to open at a Roman Catholic university.\n\nFounded in 2010, the college holds accreditation status with the American Osteopathic Association's Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA). Graduates of the college will receive a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.).\n\nThe college shares a 140,000-square-foot building, called the Michael A. Evans Center for Health Sciences, with the Marian University School of Nursing, which is located on the southeast region of campus.\n\nMarian University opened its College of Osteopathic Medicine in 2010, with funding by a $48 million donation from Michael Evans, the CEO of Indianapolis-based AIT Laboratories. The college opened as the second medical school in the state of Indiana. The inaugural class of 162 students began courses in August 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50314733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50314733", "title": "Medische Zending", "text": "Medische Zending\n\nMedische Zending Primary Health Care Suriname, commonly known as Medische Zending (Dutch for \"medical mission\") or MZ is a Surinamese charitable organization offering primary healthcare to remote villages in the interior of Suriname.\n\nMedische Zending and the Amazon Conservation Team cooperate through a memorandum of understanding signed in July 1999.\n\nMedische Zending operates 52 primary healthcare centres in the Surinamese interior:\n\n"}
{"id": "50514841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50514841", "title": "Mr. Yoga", "text": "Mr. Yoga\n\nDaniel Lacerda, also known as Mr. Yoga, is a \"New York Times\" best selling author. He is the founder of Mr. Yoga, Inc. The Mr. Yoga, Inc. office is located in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nLacerda was born on February 11, 1985 in Toronto, Canada.\n\nIn 2015, Hachette Book Group published a book by Lacerda, called Mr. Yoga's 2,100 Asanas. It features 2,100 yoga poses (Asanas) photographed in colour by the author. All the poses in the book are demonstrated by Lacerda's yoga students. Mr. Yoga's 2,100 Asanas became a Toronto Star bestseller, Indie Healthy Living bestseller, was mentioned on Vanity Fair (magazine) Hot Type list, as well as making The New York Times bestsellers list. \n\nLacerda began his yoga studies in India under the Hindu Monk Dada Hari Krishnamacharya. He states that has catalogued many yoga poses mentioned in the Hatha Yoga Pradipika. Lacerda states further that the 2,100 Asanas of the first edition will be increased to \"50,000 Asanas\" in the second edition.\n"}
{"id": "55631749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55631749", "title": "Natasha Gajewski", "text": "Natasha Gajewski\n\nNatasha Gajewski () is the CEO and Founder of Symple Health.\n\nGajewski was born to Dana Roy and Riaz Hussein Rana. Her father, Rana, was a commercial pilot and later statistician. Rana immigrated to the United States from Zafar Chowk, Pakistan in 1960. Gajewski has one sister, Holly Bossard. Gajewski has a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and Statistics from Rutgers University.\n\nAfter being diagnosed, in 2010, with the rare condition, Mixed connective tissue disease (MTCD), Gajewski told by her physician to keep track of her symptoms between medical appointments. This motivated her to improve health prospects for patients. This led to the idea to create a mobile symptom journal. Gajewski was initially faced with the prohibitive costs of developing a Mobile app after approaching developers from the United States and India. To evaluate the feasibility and validity of the app, she attend Eric Ries's 2011 Lean startup - San Francisco where her idea was the 2nd-place winner and was voted \"most fundable\" and \"most likely to succeed.\" In a February 2017 Heart Sisters interview, Gajewksi said of her experience designing a mobile app:\nShe has been described as a \"revolutionary\" in the engaged patient movement along with Dave deBronkart and Jamie Heywood. In 2014, the Symple App had 60,000 users. It is distributed through the App Store (iOS). In an interview with MedCity News, Gajewski stated that she used simplistic design for the Symple App which operates as an online health journal. In 2016, Symple was recommended by a National Health Service general practitioner, Dr. Golda Parker, for patients to use to create lists of symptoms so they come prepared to appointments. Gajewski's Symple app has been the subject of research in academic journals. A 2017 academic study rated her mobile app as one of the \"highest performing apps\" for heart failure monitoring. Gajewski provided input on point of care patient decisions in a 2016 study. Danny Gorog of Macworld had positive remarks on the App, stating that it \" is a powerful iPhone app that lets users track up to 20 different symptoms at once. It also functions as a health diary, to let you note the things you eat, daily exercise and medications you take.\" \n\nGajewski serves as an Advisor for Princeton University's Keller Center eLab Summer Accelerator. She is also a member of University of California, San Diego and Irvine's Health Data Exploration Project. In December 2011, Gajewski was one of the Princeton alumni and women entrepreneurs and business leaders who served as a panelist for the event entitled \"Women in Entrepreneurship\" hosted by the Keller Center. The panel explored the underrepresentation of women in venture capital and startup ventures to which, Gajewski reported \"I just never imagined limitations based on my sex.” Later remarking, “It just never occurred to me.\" Gajewski is a faculty member for the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation sponsored National Health Care Transparency Summit. Gajewski serves on the Advisory Board of Flip the Clinic, a project of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.\n\nGajewksi resides in Princeton, New Jersey. To combat her Autoimmune disease, Gajewski practices Zumba. Gajewski's parents later divorced and her father remarried to Jacqueline Nicole Marchal of Paris, through which, Gajewski gained three stepsiblings including Christopher Emery. Gajewski's mother remarried to jeweler Samuel Kind, through which, she gained two stepsiblings, actor and voice actor Richard Kind and Joanne Hinton.\n\n"}
{"id": "37248295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37248295", "title": "Nun's Well, Gibraltar", "text": "Nun's Well, Gibraltar\n\nNun's Well is an ancient underground water reservoir in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar. It is located at Europa Point, and is thought to be of the Moorish period. It represents some of the earliest evidence of an artificial water supply in Gibraltar. The name of the cistern is thought to be derived from the nuns associated with the Shrine of Our Lady of Europe. In the eighteenth century, Nun's Well supplied the military with water. In the early nineteenth century, it provided water for the brewery that was built next door. In 1988, the Royal Engineers constructed what is now the main building, which has a castle-like appearance. Nun's Well became the focus of controversy during the 2010-2011 restoration of the site.\n\nNun's Well is an ancient subterranean water reservoir in Gibraltar, the British Overseas Territory at the southern end of the Iberian Peninsula. It is located at Europa Point, the southernmost portion of Gibraltar. The cistern is on Europa New Road at Europa Flats, across from the south entrance to Keightley Way Tunnel, just south of the Ibrahim-al-Ibrahim Mosque. On the east side of the structure, the reservoir is accessed by stairs which lead to a door constructed at the underground level. The water reservoir includes a pair of large underground arched chambers into which ground water was permitted to drain. Nun's Well is thought to be of the Moorish period, and represents some of the earliest evidence of the attempts to provide a water supply in Gibraltar.\n\nIt is thought that the name of the cistern originated with the nuns who previously cared for the Shrine of Our Lady of Europe, another historic site at Europa Point. Nun's Well is also in proximity to the Europa Point Lighthouse.\n\nIn 1753, Governor of Gibraltar Humphrey Bland ordered that the chambers be cleaned. Afterwards, the reservoir supplied the military with water. Nun's Well was described in the second edition of the journal of British officer and military historian John Drinkwater Bethune, \"A history of the late siege of Gibraltar\", published in 1786. \nPrince Edward, the Duke of Kent (2 November 1767 – 23 January 1820), later the father of Queen Victoria, arrived in Gibraltar for the second time in May 1802. His first arrival had been in 1790 as an officer; his second stay at Gibraltar was as Governor, following the death of Governor General Charles O'Hara. Prince Edward was ordered by his brother Prince Frederick, Duke of York to restore discipline at the garrison, as the soldiers spent much of their time inebriated. Before the prince's arrival, Gibraltar had ninety-two taverns which served its approximately 7,000 civilians and soldiers. After his arrival, he closed down the majority of the wine houses that had been frequented by the soldiers. In addition, the Governor ordered that all the remaining taverns be off-limits for the soldiers except for three: The Three Light Infantrymen, The Halfway House, and the Three Guns. He established a brewery at Europa Point, next to Nun's Well. His brewery was known as Brewery Yard or Brewers Yard, and utilised water from Nun's Well. It was the source of “a wholesome supply of Beer for the Troops.” The Duke of Kent was recalled to England in the spring of 1803. Later, in 1805, the brewery was converted into military barracks. The Italian architect Giovanni Maria Boschetti has been credited with demolishing the brewery and constructing a barracks in its place. \n\nIn the mid nineteenth century, Nun's Well was described by Spanish historian Ignacio López de Ayala in his \"History of Gibraltar\", published in 1845.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, the military barracks next to the Nun's Well site, referred to as Brewery Barracks, was reported to be in an \"insanitary\" condition. Discussions at Parliament further indicated that large amounts of money had already been spent on the barracks, and that they were scheduled to be replaced. \n\nIn May 1987, the Royal Engineers conducted an investigation of the Nun's Well site. The following year, the Royal Engineers constructed what is now the main building. It has a castle-like appearance; its addition was part of a general restoration of the site. The site of the previous brewery and later barracks is now open ground which is utilised by the military for target practice. While the reservoir had been thought to fill with water that drains along the fractures of the nearby Beefsteak Fault, recent investigation has led researchers to believe that it fills with a combination of rain, street flushing, and sea spray, particularly during levanter winds. \n\nIn 2010, the Government of Gibraltar requested that the Gibraltar Ornithological and Natural History Society (GONHS) make suggestions for the landscaping of Europa Point, as the government was intent on restoring the site. A report was completed and contractors transplanted vegetation to the area by Nun's Well to be tended while awaiting replanting. However, irrigation was not provided for the landscaping plants, with the result that most of the plants at Nun's Well died. Another thousand plants that replaced them were also neglected and largely died. Concurrently, an adjacent area which was covered with the strictly protected Gibraltar Sea Lavender \"(Limonium emarginatum)\" had rubble dumped upon it. The errors were compounded when replacement planting took place in the heat of summer, and dumping of rubble on the lavender continued. The society contended that the events which transpired were against both the government's own Environment Charter and Environmental Action and Management Plan.\n\nIn October 2011, the council of the Gibraltar Ornithological and Natural History Society declined an invitation for its General Secretary John Cortes to attend the inauguration of the recently restored Europa Point. The reasons cited included the destruction of the habitat, the flouting of laws relating to the removal of Gibraltar's protected species, and the ignoring of solicited advice on landscaping with salt-resistant native plants. The decision was criticised by Chief Minister Peter Caruana as a \"political stunt.\" Caruana's statements were denounced by the GONHS as a \"vitriolic attack\" and a spokesman indicated that their society was an \"apolitical ... independent NGO\" (non-governmental organization).\n\n"}
{"id": "21017052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21017052", "title": "Placebo-controlled study", "text": "Placebo-controlled study\n\nPlacebo-controlled studies are a way of testing a medical therapy in which, in addition to a group of subjects that receives the treatment to be evaluated, a separate control group receives a sham \"placebo\" treatment which is specifically designed to have no real effect. Placebos are most commonly used in blinded trials, where subjects do not know whether they are receiving real or placebo treatment. Often, there is also a further \"natural history\" group that does not receive any treatment at all.\n\nThe purpose of the placebo group is to account for the placebo effect, that is, effects from treatment that do not depend on the treatment itself. Such factors include knowing one is receiving a treatment, attention from health care professionals, and the expectations of a treatment's effectiveness by those running the research study. Without a placebo group to compare against, it is not possible to know whether the treatment itself had any effect.\n\nPatients frequently show improvement even when given a sham or \"fake\" treatment. Such intentionally inert placebo treatments can take many forms, such as a pill containing only sugar, a surgery where nothing efficacious is actually done (just an incision and sometimes some minor touching or handling of the underlying structures), or a medical device (such as an ultrasound machine) that is not actually turned on. Also, due to the body's natural healing ability and statistical effects such as regression to the mean, many patients will get better even when given no treatment at all. Thus, the relevant question when assessing a treatment is not \"does the treatment work?\" but \"does the treatment work better than a placebo treatment, or no treatment at all?\" As one early clinical trial researcher wrote, \"the first object of a therapeutic trial is to discover whether the patients who receive the treatment under investigation are cured more rapidly, more completely or more frequently, than they would have been without it.\" More broadly, the aim of a clinical trial is to determine what treatments, delivered in what circumstances, to which patients, in what conditions, are the most effective.\n\nTherefore, the use of placebos is a standard control component of most clinical trials, which attempt to make some sort of quantitative assessment of the efficacy of medicinal drugs or treatments. Such a test or clinical trial is called a \"placebo-controlled\" study, and its control is of the negative type. A study whose control is a previously tested treatment, rather than no treatment, is called a \"positive-control\" study, because its control is of the positive type. Government regulatory agencies approve new drugs only after tests establish not only that patients respond to them, but also that their effect is greater than that of a placebo (by way of affecting more patients, by affecting responders more strongly, or both).\n\nThings like sugar pills, that look like real treatments but in fact have no physical effect are used to create \"blind\" trials in which the participants do not know whether they are getting the active treatment or not, so that physical effects can be measured independently of the participants' expectations. Single Blind trials control all of these by making whatever expectations there are equal for all cases.\n\nPlacebos are not the only possible technique for creating \"blindness\" (= unawareness of the treatment): to test the effectiveness of prayer by others, the participants are not told who has and has not had prayers said for them. To test the effect of changing the frequency of fluorescent lights on headaches, the light fittings are changed at night in the absence of the office workers (this is a real case). It has been shown that \"mock\" surgery can have similar effects, and so some surgical techniques must be studied with placebo controls (rarely double blind, due to the difficulty involved).\n\nBecause a doctor's belief in the value of a treatment can affect his or her behavior, and thus what his or her patient believes, clinical trials are usually conducted in \"double-blind\" manner: that is, not only are the patients made unaware when they are receiving a placebo, the doctors are made unaware too.\n\nNearly all studies conducted find benefit in the placebo group. For example, Khan published a meta-analysis of studies of investigational antidepressants and found a 30% reduction in suicide and attempted suicide in the placebo groups and a 40% reduction in the treated groups. However, studies generally do not include an untreated group, so determining the actual size of the placebo effect, compared to totally untreated patients, is difficult.\n\nThe practice of using an additional natural history group as the trial's so-called \"\"third arm\" has emerged; and trials are conducted using three randomly selected, equally matched trial groups, David wrote: \"... it is necessary to remember the adjective ‘random’ [in the term ‘random sample’] should apply to the method of drawing the sample and not to the sample itself.\"\".\n\n\nThe outcomes within each group are observed, and compared with each other, allowing us to measure:\nIt is a matter of interpretation whether the value of P-NH indicates the \"efficacy of the entire treatment process\" or the \"magnitude of the \"placebo response\"\". The results of these comparisons then determine whether or not a particular drug is considered efficacious.\n\nIn certain clinical trials of particular drugs, it may happen that the level of the \"placebo responses\" manifested by the trial's subjects are either considerably higher or lower (in relation to the \"active\" drug's effects) than one would expect from other trials of similar drugs. In these cases, with all other things being equal, it is reasonable to conclude that:\n\nHowever, in particular cases such as the use of Cimetidine to treat ulcers, a significant level of placebo response can also prove to be an index of how much the treatment has been directed at a wrong target.\n\nThe Coronary Drug Project was intended to study the safety and effectiveness of drugs for long-term treatment of coronary heart disease in men. Those in the placebo group who adhered to the placebo treatment (took the placebo regularly as instructed) showed nearly half the mortality rate as those who were not adherent.\nA similar study of women similarly found survival was nearly 2.5 times greater for those who adhered to their placebo. This apparent placebo effect may have occurred because:\n\nAppropriate use of a placebo in a clinical trial often requires or at least benefits from a double-blind study design, which means that neither the experimenters nor the subjects know which subjects are in the \"test group\" and which are in the \"control group\". This creates a problem in creating placebos that can be mistaken for active treatments. It therefore can be necessary to use a psychoactive placebo, a drug that produces physiological effects that encourage the belief in the control groups that they have received an active drug.\n\nA psychoactive placebo was used in the Marsh Chapel Experiment, a double-blind study in which the experimental group received the psychedelic substance psilocybin while the control group received a large dose of niacin, a substance that produces noticeable physical effects intended to lead the control subjects to believe they had received the psychoactive drug. The term \"psychoactive placebo\" is rare in the literature; but, when it is used, it always denotes a placebo of this type. For example, \"Neither the experienced investigator nor the naive [subject] is easily fooled on the matter of whether he has received a psychedelic substance or merely a psychoactive placebo such as amphetamine.\"\n\nIn 1747, James Lind (1716–1794), the ship's doctor on HMS Salisbury, conducted the first clinical trial when he investigated the efficacy of citrus fruit in cases of scurvy. He randomly divided twelve scurvy patients, whose \"cases were as similar as I could have them\", into six pairs. Each pair was given a different remedy. According to Lind’s 1753 \"Treatise on the Scurvy in Three Parts Containing an Inquiry into the Nature, Causes, and Cure of the Disease, Together with a Critical and Chronological View of what has been Published of the Subject\", the remedies were: one quart of cider per day, twenty-five drops of elixir vitriol (sulfuric acid) three times a day, two spoonfuls of vinegar three times a day, a course of sea-water (half a pint every day), two oranges and one lemon each day, and electuary, (a mixture containing garlic, mustard, balsam of Peru, and myrrh).\n\nHe noted that the pair who had been given the oranges and lemons were so restored to health within six days of treatment that one of them returned to duty, and the other was well enough to attend the rest of the sick.\n\nIn 1784, the French Royal Commission looked into the existence of animal magnetism, comparing the effects of allegedly \"magnetized\" water with that of plain water.\nIt did not examine the practices of Franz Mesmer, but examined the significantly different practices of his associate Charles d'Eslon (1739–1786).\n\nIn 1799, John Haygarth investigated the efficacy of medical instruments called \"Perkins tractors\", by comparing the results from \"dummy\" wooden tractors with a set of allegedly \"active\" metal tractors, and published his findings in a book \"On the Imagination as a Cause & as a Cure of Disorders of the Body\".\n\nIn 1863 Austin Flint (1812–1886) conducted the first-ever trial that directly compared the efficacy of a dummy simulator with that of an active treatment; although Flint's examination did not compare the two against each other in the same trial. Even so, this was a significant departure from the (then) customary practice of contrasting the consequences of an active treatment with what Flint described as \"the natural history of [an untreated] disease\".\n\nFlint’s paper is the first time that he terms \"placebo\" or \"placeboic remedy\" were used to refer to a dummy simulator in a clinical trial.\n\nFlint treated 13 hospital inmates who had rheumatic fever; 11 were \"acute\", and 2 were \"sub-acute\". He then compared the results of his dummy \"placeboic remedy\" with that of the active treatment’s already well-understood results. (Flint had previously tested, and reported on, the active treatment’s efficacy.) There was no significant difference between the results of the active treatment and his \"placeboic remedy\" in 12 of the cases in terms of disease duration, duration of convalescence, number of joints affected, and emergence of complications. In the thirteenth case, Flint expressed some doubt whether the particular complications that had emerged (namely, pericarditis, endocarditis, and pneumonia) would have been prevented if that subject had been immediately given the \"active treatment\".\n\nJellinek in 1946 was asked to test whether or not the headache drug's overall efficacy would be reduced if certain ingredients were removed. In post-World War II 1946, pharmaceutical chemicals were restricted, and one U.S. headache remedy manufacturer sold a drug composed of three ingredients: a, b, and c, and chemical b was in particular short supply.\n\nJellinek set up a complex trial involving 199 subjects, all of whom suffered from \"\"frequent headaches\". The subjects were randomly divided into four test groups. He prepared four test drugs, involving various permutations of the three drug constituents, with a placebo as a scientific control. The structure of this trial is significant because, in those days, the only time placebos were ever used \"was to express the efficacy or non-efficacy of a drug in terms of \"how much better\" the drug was than the \"placebo\"\". (Note that the trial conducted by Austin Flint is an example of such a drug efficacy vs. placebo efficacy trial.) The four test drugs were identical in shape, size, colour and taste:\n\nEach time a subject had a headache, they took their group’s designated test drug, and recorded whether their headache had been relieved (or not). Although \"some subjects had only three headaches in the course of a two-week period while others had up to ten attacks in the same period\", the data showed a \"great consistency\" across all subjects Every two weeks the groups’ drugs were changed; so that by the end of eight weeks, all groups had tested all the drugs. The stipulated drug (i.e., A, B, C, or D) was taken as often as necessary over each two-week period, and the two-week sequences for each of the four groups were:\n\nOver the entire population of 199 subjects, there were 120 \"\"subjects reacting to placebo\" and 79 \"subjects not reacting to placebo\"\".\n\nOn initial analysis, there was no difference between the self-reported \"success rates\" of Drugs A, B, and C (84%, 80%, and 80% respectively) (the \"success rate\" of the simulating placebo Drug D was 52%); and, from this, it appeared that ingredient b was completely unnecessary.\n\nHowever, further analysis on the trial demonstrated that ingredient b made a significant contribution to the remedy’s efficacy. Examining his data, Jellinek discovered that there was a very significant difference in responses between the 120 placebo-responders and the 79 non-responders. The 79 non-responders' reports showed that if they were considered as an entirely separate group, there was a significant difference the \"success rates\" of Drugs A, B, and C: viz., 88%, 67%, and 77%, respectively. And because this significant difference in relief from the test drugs could only be attributed to the presence or absence of ingredient b, he concluded that ingredient b was essential.\n\nTwo conclusions came from this trial:\n\nIt used to be thought that the first-ever randomized clinical trial was the trial conducted by the Medical Research Council (MRC) in 1948 into the efficacy of streptomycin in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis. In this trial, there were two test groups:\nWhat made this trial novel was that the subjects were randomly allocated to their test groups. The up-to-that-time practice was to allocate subjects alternately to each group, based on the order in which they presented for treatment. This practice could be biased, because those admitting each patient knew to which group that patient would be allocated (and so the decision to admit or not admit a specific patient might be influenced by the experimenter's knowledge of the nature of their illness, and their knowledge of the group to which they would occupy).\n\nRecently, an earlier MRC trial on the antibiotic patulin on the course of common colds has been suggested to have been the first randomized trial. Another early and until recently overlooked randomized trial was published on strophanthin in a local Finnish journal in 1946.\n\nFrom the time of the Hippocratic Oath questions of the ethics of medical practice have been widely discussed, and codes of practice have been gradually developed as a response to advances in scientific medicine.\nThe Nuremberg Code, which was issued in August 1947, as a consequence of the so-called Doctors' Trial which examined the human experimentation conducted by Nazi doctors during World War II, offers ten principles for legitimate medical research, including informed consent, absence of coercion, and beneficence towards experiment participants.\n\nIn 1964, the World Medical Association issued the Declaration of Helsinki, which specifically limited its directives to health research by physicians, and emphasized a number of additional conditions in circumstances where \"medical research is combined with medical care\"\".\nThe significant difference between the 1947 Nuremberg Code and the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki is that the first was a set of principles that was \"suggested\" to the medical profession by the \"Doctors’ Trial\" judges, whilst the second was \"imposed\" by the medical profession upon itself.\nParagraph 29 of the Declaration makes specific mention of placebos:\n\nIn 2002, World Medical Association issued the following elaborative announcement:\n\nIn addition to the requirement for informed consent from all drug-trial participants, it is also standard practice to inform all test subjects that they may receive the drug being tested or that they may receive the placebo.\n\n\"Talking therapies\" (such as hypnotherapy, psychotherapy, counseling, and non-drug psychiatry) are now required to have scientific validation by clinical trial. However, there is controversy over what might or might not be an appropriate placebo for such therapeutic treatments. In 2005, the \"Journal of Clinical Psychology\", devoted an issue to the issue of \"The Placebo Concept in Psychotherapy\" that contained a range of contributions to this question. As the abstract of one paper noted:\nUnlike within the domain of medicine, in which the logic of placebos is relatively straightforward, the concept of placebo as applied to psychotherapy is fraught with both conceptual and practical problems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32996235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32996235", "title": "Planmeca", "text": "Planmeca\n\nPlanmeca, established in 1971, is a Finnish manufacturer of high-tech dental team, 3D digital imaging devices and software.\nPlanmeca’s product lines are organised in\n\nPlanmeca offers integrated product concepts consisting of a dental unit, digital imaging equipment and software. Planmeca works in close co-operation with dental universities and institutions.\nPlanmeca’s products are designed and manufactured in Helsinki, Finland, and distributed worldwide via a network of dealers operating around the world. More than 98% of Planmeca’s production is exported to over 100 countries.\n\nPlanmeca was founded by Heikki Kyöstilä in 1971. Kyöstilä is the president and owner of Planmeca.\n\nIn the 1970s, Planmeca manufactured dental stools and instrument cabinets, and created its first patient chair and dental unit.\n\nThe 1980s was a decade of international expansion and subsidiaries were established abroad. Planmeca introduced a microprocessor-controlled dental chair, panoramic X-ray device and dental unit.\n\nIn the 1990s, Planmeca introduced a dental unit with an integrated patient chair. The decade was also an era of digital progress – Planmeca introduced an integrated information technology system for a digital dental practice, the all in one -concept. The concept allowed instant access to all digital clinical patient information at chair side via one software.\n\nIn the 2000s, Planmeca introduced a dental unit that could be converted from right- to left-handed use with motorised movements as well as the Planmeca Romexis software for processing patient information, dental unit’s user activities and images. Planmeca also introduced a new SCARA technology in its X-ray units, which enabled free formation of imaging geometry.\n\nIn the 2010s, the concept of \"Digital perfection\" was launched. The combination of a digital intraoral scan, a 3D X-ray (CBVT) and a 3D facial photo provides comprehensive information on the patient’s anatomy.\n\nCooperative work between Planmeca and universities in product and software development is widespread. Planmeca offers solutions designed especially for teaching environments. Planmeca has supplied dental units and X-ray units to universities and hospitals around the world.\n\nPlanmeca Oy is the parent company of Planmeca Group. The Group operates in the field of health care and consists of six companies. The Group employs approximately 2,650 people worldwide and the estimated turnover for 2014 amounts to MEUR 800. The headquarters is located in Helsinki, Finland.\n\nIn addition to Planmeca Oy, the companies belonging to Planmeca Group are: Planmed Oy, a manufacturer of mammography and orthopaedic imaging equipment, Plandent Oy, a full-service dental supply company, LM-Instruments Oy, a manufacturer of dental hand instruments, Opus Systemer AS, a developer of dental software solutions and Triangle Furniture Systems Inc., a manufacturer of dental practice cabinetry solutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "4795146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4795146", "title": "Päijänne Water Tunnel", "text": "Päijänne Water Tunnel\n\nThe Päijänne Water Tunnel (, ), located in Southern Finland, is the world's second longest tunnel (after the Delaware Aqueduct in the USA). It is long and runs 30–100 meters under the surface in bedrock. The purpose of the tunnel is to provide fresh water for the million plus people in Southern Finland in the cities of Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa, Hyvinkää, Järvenpää, Kerava, Kauniainen, Kirkkonummi, Sipoo, and Tuusula. The former Porvoo Rural Municipality, now merged with the municipality of Porvoo, also took part in the building of the scheme but has never drawn water from it for domestic use.\n\nThe tunnel starts at Asikkalanselkä in Lake Päijänne, which is the second largest lake in Finland, with an area of 1,080 square kilometres. The tunnel slopes slightly downhill so that water flows naturally. Water from the southern portion of Lake Päijänne is of rather good quality at the water tunnel intake and is usually drinkable without processing. The tunnel ends at the Silvola reservoir in Vantaa in the Greater Helsinki area. From the reservoir covering 0.5 square kilometres, water is pumped to water treatment plants in Pitkäkoski and Vanhakaupunki. Since the constant low temperature in the deep tunnel ensures high quality during transport, only minimal processing is required before use.\n\nTunnel construction started in 1972 and was completed in 1982 at a cost of approximately €200 million (adjusted for inflation). In 1999 and 2001, portions of the tunnel required repair due to rock falls. In 2008, the tunnel underwent an extensive renovation. The southern part of the tunnel was reinforced in order to prevent cave-ins. During the renovation, from April 15 to December 31, 2008, the raw water for the Greater Helsinki metropolitan area was drawn from the Vantaa River.\n\nThe tunnel has a cross section of 16 square metres (wide enough for a truck) and enables a water flow of 10 cubic metres per second. At current water usage rates, treatment plants take water at a rate of about 3.1 cubic metres per second for drinking water processing. The tunnel can be used as an emergency water reserve during water supply disruption.\n\n"}
{"id": "31204196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31204196", "title": "Richmond House", "text": "Richmond House\n\nRichmond House was until 2017 the headquarters building of the Department of Health and Social Care of the United Kingdom at 79 Whitehall, London, SW1A 2NS. It is where the ministerial team and key National Health Service officials was based until November 2017. The building is located behind New Scotland Yard and across Richmond Terrace from the Ministry of Defence.\n\nThe design was by William Whitfield and was completed in 1987.\n\nIn January 2018, the House of Commons voted to move to Richmond House in 2025, for an estimated six years, to allow a full renovation of the Houses of Parliament. Plans revealed in October 2018 indicated that most of the building would be demolished in preparation for this move, with only the facade retained in front of a new building designed by Allford Hall Monaghan Morris and containing a permanent chamber and offices.\n"}
{"id": "20138057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20138057", "title": "Rihand Dam", "text": "Rihand Dam\n\nRihand Dam (), also known as Govind Ballabh Pant Sagar, is the largest dam of India by volume. The reservoir of Rihand Dam is called Govind Ballabh Pant Sagar and is India's largest artificial lake. Rihand Dam is a concrete gravity dam located at Pipri in Sonbhadra District in Uttar Pradesh, India. Its reservoir area is on the border of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. It is located on the Rihand River, a tributary of the Son River. The catchment area of this dam extends over Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh & Chhattisgarh whereas it supplies irrigation water in Bihar located downstream of the river.\nGovind Ballabh Pant Sagar is the largest man made lake in India. \nRihand dam is a concrete gravity dam with a length of 934.45 m. The maximum height of the dam is 91.46 m and was constructed during period 1954-62. The dam consists of 61 independent blocks and ground joints. The powerhouse is situated at the toe of the dam, with installed capacity of 300 MW (6 units of 50 MW each). The Intake Structure is situated between blocks no. 28 and 33. The Dam is in distress condition. It is proposed to carry out the rehabilitation works in the dam and the powerhouse. The F.R.L. of the dam is 268.22 m and it impounds 8.6 Million Acre ft of water.The construction of the dam resulted in forced relocation of nearly 100,000 people \n\nMany super thermal power stations are located in the catchment area of the dam. These are Singrauli, Vindyachal, Rihand, Anpara & Sasan super thermal power stations and Renukoot thermal station. The high alkalinity run off water from the ash dumps (some are located in the reservoir area) of these coal-fired power stations ultimately collects in this reservoir enhancing its water alkalinity and pH range. Using high alkalinity water for irrigation converts the agriculture fields in to fallow Alkali soils.\n"}
{"id": "50167089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50167089", "title": "Saline Water Conversion Corporation", "text": "Saline Water Conversion Corporation\n\nSaline Water Conversion Corporation (SWCC) is a government corporation that operates desalinization plants and power stations in Saudi Arabia. It is the second largest electrical provider in the country. It is the largest desalinating sea water corporation in the world, responsible for 20% of worldwide desalinated water production. SWCC has 30 plants, 14 transmission systems, and 4000 km of pipelines. SWCC workforce is 10,000+ employees and its assets value is 20+ B $.\n"}
{"id": "16108122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16108122", "title": "School of Human Genetic and Population Health", "text": "School of Human Genetic and Population Health\n\nSchool of Human Genetic and Population Health (SOHGAPH) is a non-governmental organization registered under West Bengal Societies Registration Act, 1961, India.\n\nSOHAGPH was founded on April 1993 by Dr. Deba Prasad Mukherjee, as a platform for anthropologists, physicians and biologists to launch service-oriented researches in the field of human genetics among West Bengal population.\n\nIn 2005, SOHAGPH is granted Bharat Nirman Award for the Area of Rural Development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56532571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56532571", "title": "Stanley Gelbier", "text": "Stanley Gelbier\n\nStanley Gelbier (born November 1935) is emeritus professor of dental public health and honorary professor of the history of dentistry at King's College London. He is a past president of the History of Medicine Society, and the former curator of the British Dental Association's museum.\n\nStanley Gelbier was born in November 1935 at Clapton Common, Hackney, London. He is Jewish, and experienced antisemitism in his youth after the end of the Second World War. He received his pre-clinical training at King's College and clinical dental training at the Royal Dental Hospital (1957–61). Subsequently, he gained a licence in Dental Surgery from the Royal College of Surgeons in 1961.\n\nIn 1961, Gelbier started his first job as school dental officer for Essex, where he remained until 1967. During some of this time, he also took on part-time dental work in Stoke Newington.\n\nIn 1962, he was appointed house surgeon to the orthodontic and children’s departments at the Royal Dental Hospital. Gelbier recalls in his memoirs that during this post, many years before other articles on the damage to teeth by sugary drinks, he was encouraged to write his first paper about a child with tooth decay who drank about 8 bottles of cola a day. Subsequently he was assigned to the Department of Children’s dentistry, followed by a post at The London Hospital, Whitechapel, and then a lectureship in child dental health at The London Hospital Medical College. He was inspired by the founder of dental clinics for children with disabilities, Neil Swallow, amongst others.\n\nGelbier was professor and head of the department of dental public health at King's College London from 1990 to 2002. He is now professor emeritus there. He was the first dentist to receive an honorary fellowship from the Faculty of Public Health (then PH Medicine). Since 2010 he has been honorary professor in the history of dentistry at King's. He is a past president of the History of Medicine Society, and the former curator of the British Dental Association's museum.\n\nGelbier was appointed assistant curator of the British Dental Association Museum in 1982 and full curator in 1987. He became the first U.K. honorary professor in the history of dentistry. His research has ranged from care of pauper children to the lives and work of leading dentists. His historical writings have covered the British Paedodontic Society, the International Association of Dentistry for Children and the British Society of Oral Health and Disability.\n\nIn 2002, Gelbier was awarded the BDA's John Tomes Medal, which honours members of the dental profession and of scientific importance. The BDA later honoured Gelbier with life membership in December 2007. In 2016, Gelbier was presented with the American Academy of the History of Dentistry's Hayden Harris Award by Dr Sheldon Peck.\n\nHe is the author of numerous works about dentistry and its history. In 1962 he wrote a paper for the \"Royal Dental Hospital Magazine\" on \"Tooth Erosion in a Boy Consuming a High Intake of Cola and Similar Drinks\". He has written biographies of notable dentists including Sydney William Garne of Ceylon and James Smith Turner of the BDA.\n\nGelbier co-organised the Witness Seminars on the history of dentistry at the BDA as part of the John McLean Archive of Living Dental History, funded by a bequest from the estate of dental pioneer John Walford McLean. Gelbier is the joint editor with Nairn Wilson of the transcripts of all five of the seminars which were published by the BDA in 2014.\n\nIn 2015, Gelbier retired after 33 years as deputy and then honorary curator of the British Dental Association Museum. In 2017 he published his autobiography, \"From Public Health Dentist to Dental Historian\".\n\nAll BDA, London, 2014. Edited by Stanley Gelbier and Nairn Wilson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2007748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007748", "title": "Structural equation modeling", "text": "Structural equation modeling\n\nStructural equation modeling (SEM) is a form of causal modeling that includes a diverse set of mathematical models, computer algorithms, and statistical methods that fit networks of constructs to data. SEM includes confirmatory factor analysis, path analysis, partial least squares path modeling, and latent growth modeling. The concept should not be confused with the related concept of structural models in econometrics, nor with structural models in economics. Structural equation models are often used to assess unobservable 'latent' constructs. They often invoke a measurement model that defines latent variables using one or more observed variables, and a structural model that imputes relationships between latent variables. The links between constructs of a structural equation model may be estimated with independent regression equations or through more involved approaches such as those employed in LISREL.\n\nUse of SEM is commonly justified in the social sciences because of its ability to impute relationships between unobserved constructs (latent variables) from observable variables. To provide a simple example, the concept of human intelligence cannot be measured directly as one could measure height or weight. Instead, psychologists develop a hypothesis of intelligence and write measurement instruments with items (questions) designed to measure intelligence according to their hypothesis. They would then use SEM to test their hypothesis using data gathered from people who took their intelligence test. With SEM, \"intelligence\" would be the latent variable and the test items would be the observed variables.\n\nA simplistic model suggesting that intelligence (as measured by four questions) can predict academic performance (as measured by SAT, ACT, and high school GPA) is shown above (top right). In SEM diagrams, latent variables are commonly shown as ovals and observed variables as rectangles. The diagram above shows how error (e) influences each intelligence question and the SAT, ACT, and GPA scores, but does not influence the latent variables. SEM provides numerical estimates for each of the parameters (arrows) in the model to indicate the strength of the relationships. Thus, in addition to testing the overall theory, SEM therefore allows the researcher to diagnose which observed variables are good indicators of the latent variables.\n\nVarious methods in structural equation modeling have been used in the sciences, business, and other fields. Criticism of SEM methods often addresses pitfalls in mathematical formulation, weak external validity of some accepted models and philosophical bias inherent to the standard procedures.\n\nStructural equation modeling, as the term is currently used in sociology, psychology, and other social sciences evolved from the earlier methods in genetic path modeling of Sewall Wright. Their modern forms came about with computer intensive implementations in the 1960s and 1970s. SEM evolved in three different streams: (1) systems of equation regression methods developed mainly at the Cowles Commission; (2) iterative maximum likelihood algorithms for path analysis developed mainly by Karl Gustav Jöreskog at the Educational Testing Service and subsequently at the University of Uppsala; and (3) iterative canonical correlation fit algorithms for path analysis also developed at the University of Uppsala by Hermann Wold. Much of this development occurred at a time that automated computing was offering substantial upgrades over the existing calculator and analogue computing methods available, themselves products of the proliferation of office equipment innovations in the late 20th century. The 2015 text \"Structural Equation Modeling: From Paths to Networks\" provides a history of the methods.\n\nLoose and confusing terminology has been used to obscure weaknesses in the methods. In particular, PLS-PA (the Lohmoller algorithm) has been conflated with partial least squares regression PLSR, which is a substitute for ordinary least squares regression and has nothing to do with path analysis. PLS-PA has been falsely promoted as a method that works with small datasets when other estimation approaches fail. Westland (2010) decisively showed this not to be true and developed an algorithm for sample sizes in SEM. Since the 1970s, the 'small sample size' assertion has been known to be false (see for example Dhrymes, 1972, 1974; Dhrymes & Erlat, 1972; Dhrymes et al., 1972; Gupta, 1969; Sobel, 1982).\n\nBoth LISREL and PLS-PA were conceived as iterative computer algorithms, with an emphasis from the start on creating an accessible graphical and data entry interface and extension of Wright's (1921) path analysis. Early Cowles Commission work on simultaneous equations estimation centered on Koopman and Hood's (1953) algorithms from the economics of transportation and optimal routing, with maximum likelihood estimation, and closed form algebraic calculations, as iterative solution search techniques were limited in the days before computers. Anderson and Rubin (1949, 1950) developed the limited information maximum likelihood estimator for the parameters of a single structural equation, which indirectly included the two-stage least squares estimator and its asymptotic distribution (Anderson, 2005) and Farebrother (1999). Two-stage least squares was originally proposed as a method of estimating the parameters of a single structural equation in a system of linear simultaneous equations, being introduced by Theil (1953a, 1953b, 1961) and more or less independently by Basmann (1957) and Sargan (1958). Anderson's limited information maximum likelihood estimation was eventually implemented in a computer search algorithm, where it competed with other iterative SEM algorithms. Of these, two-stage least squares was by far the most widely used method in the 1960s and the early 1970s.\n\nSystems of regression equation approaches were developed at the Cowles Commission from the 1950s on, extending the transportation modeling of Tjalling Koopmans. Sewall Wright and other statisticians attempted to promote path analysis methods at Cowles (then at the University of Chicago). University of Chicago statisticians identified many faults with path analysis applications to the social sciences; faults which did not pose significant problems for identifying gene transmission in Wright's context, but which made path methods such as PLS-PA and LISREL problematic in the social sciences. Freedman (1987) summarized these objections in path analyses: \"failure to distinguish among causal assumptions, statistical implications, and policy claims has been one of the main reasons for the suspicion and confusion surrounding quantitative methods in the social sciences\" (see also Wold's (1987) response). Wright's path analysis never gained a large following among U.S. econometricians, but was successful in influencing Hermann Wold and his student Karl Jöreskog. Jöreskog's student Claes Fornell promoted LISREL in the US.\n\nAdvances in computers made it simple for novices to apply structural equation methods in the computer-intensive analysis of large datasets in complex, unstructured problems. The most popular solution techniques fall into three classes of algorithms: (1) ordinary least squares algorithms applied independently to each path, such as applied in the so-called PLS path analysis packages which estimate with OLS; (2) covariance analysis algorithms evolving from seminal work by Wold and his student Karl Jöreskog implemented in LISREL, AMOS, and EQS; and (3) simultaneous equations regression algorithms developed at the Cowles Commission by Tjalling Koopmans.\n\nPearl has extended SEM from linear to nonparametric models, and proposed causal and counterfactual interpretations of the equations. For example, excluding a variable Z from the arguments of an equation asserts that the dependent variable is independent of interventions on the excluded variable, once we hold constant the remaining arguments. Nonparametric SEMs permit the estimation of total, direct and indirect effects without making any commitment to the form of the equations or to the distributions of the error terms. This extends mediation analysis to systems involving categorical variables in the presence of nonlinear interactions. Bollen and Pearl survey the history of the causal interpretation of SEM and why it has become a source of confusions and controversies.\n\nSEM path analysis methods are popular in the social sciences because of their accessibility; packaged computer programs allow researchers to obtain results without the inconvenience of understanding experimental design and control, effect and sample sizes, and numerous other factors that are part of good research design. Supporters say that this reﬂects a holistic, and less blatantly causal, interpretation of many real world phenomena – especially in psychology and social interaction – than may be adopted in the natural sciences; detractors suggest that many flawed conclusions have been drawn because of this lack of experimental control.\n\nDirection in the directed network models of SEM arises from presumed cause-effect assumptions made about reality. Social interactions and artifacts are often epiphenomena – secondary phenomena that are difficult to directly link to causal factors. An example of a physiological epiphenomenon is, for example, time to complete a 100-meter sprint. A person may be able to improve their sprint speed from 12 seconds to 11 seconds, but it will be difficult to attribute that improvement to any direct causal factors, like diet, attitude, weather, etc. The 1 second improvement in sprint time is an epiphenomenon – the holistic product of interaction of many individual factors.\n\nAlthough each technique in the SEM family is different, the following aspects are common to many SEM methods.\n\nTwo main components of models are distinguished in SEM: the \"structural model\" showing potential causal dependencies between endogenous and exogenous variables, and the \"measurement model\" showing the relations between latent variables and their indicators. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis models, for example, contain only the measurement part, while path diagrams can be viewed as SEMs that contain only the structural part.\n\nIn specifying pathways in a model, the modeler can posit two types of relationships: (1) \"free\" pathways, in which hypothesized causal (in fact counterfactual) relationships between variables are tested, and therefore are left 'free' to vary, and (2) relationships between variables that already have an estimated relationship, usually based on previous studies, which are 'fixed' in the model.\n\nA modeler will often specify a set of theoretically plausible models in order to assess whether the model proposed is the best of the set of possible models. Not only must the modeler account for the theoretical reasons for building the model as it is, but the modeler must also take into account the number of data points and the number of parameters that the model must estimate to identify the model. An identified model is a model where a specific parameter value uniquely identifies the model, and no other equivalent formulation can be given by a different parameter value. A data point is a variable with observed scores, like a variable containing the scores on a question or the number of times respondents buy a car. The parameter is the value of interest, which might be a regression coefficient between the exogenous and the endogenous variable or the factor loading (regression coefficient between an indicator and its factor). If there are fewer data points than the number of estimated parameters, the resulting model is \"unidentified\", since there are too few reference points to account for all the variance in the model. The solution is to constrain one of the paths to zero, which means that it is no longer part of the model.\n\nParameter estimation is done by comparing the actual covariance matrices representing the relationships between variables and the estimated covariance matrices of the best fitting model. This is obtained through numerical maximization via expectation–maximization of a \"fit criterion\" as provided by maximum likelihood estimation, quasi-maximum likelihood estimation, weighted least squares or asymptotically distribution-free methods. This is often accomplished by using a specialized SEM analysis program, of which several exist.\nHaving estimated a model, analysts will want to interpret the model. Estimated paths may be tabulated and/or presented graphically as a path model. The impact of variables is assessed using path tracing rules (see path analysis).\n\nIt is important to examine the \"fit\" of an estimated model to determine how well it models the data. This is a basic task in SEM modeling: forming the basis for accepting or rejecting models and, more usually, accepting one competing model over another. The output of SEM programs includes matrices of the estimated relationships between variables in the model. Assessment of fit essentially calculates how similar the predicted data are to matrices containing the relationships in the actual data.\n\nFormal statistical tests and fit indices have been developed for these purposes. Individual parameters of the model can also be examined within the estimated model in order to see how well the proposed model fits the driving theory. Most, though not all, estimation methods make such tests of the model possible.\n\nOf course as in all statistical hypothesis tests, SEM model tests are based on the assumption that the correct and complete relevant data have been modeled. In the SEM literature, discussion of fit has led to a variety of different recommendations on the precise application of the various fit indices and hypothesis tests.\n\nThere are differing approaches to assessing fit. Traditional approaches to modeling start from a null hypothesis, rewarding more parsimonious models (i.e. those with fewer free parameters), to others such as AIC that focus on how little the fitted values deviate from a saturated model (i.e. how well they reproduce the measured values), taking into account the number of free parameters used. Because different measures of fit capture different elements of the fit of the model, it is appropriate to report a selection of different fit measures. Guidelines (i.e., \"cutoff scores\") for interpreting fit measures, including the ones listed below, are the subject of much debate among SEM researchers.\n\nSome of the more commonly used measures of fit include:\n\nFor each measure of fit, a decision as to what represents a good-enough fit between the model and the data must reflect other contextual factors such as sample size, the ratio of indicators to factors, and the overall complexity of the model. For example, very large samples make the Chi-squared test overly sensitive and more likely to indicate a lack of model-data fit. )\n\nThe model may need to be modified in order to improve the fit, thereby estimating the most likely relationships between variables. Many programs provide modification indices which may guide minor modifications. Modification indices report the change in χ² that result from freeing fixed parameters: usually, therefore adding a path to a model which is currently set to zero. Modifications that improve model fit may be flagged as potential changes that can be made to the model. Modifications to a model, especially the structural model, are changes to the theory claimed to be true. Modifications therefore must make sense in terms of the theory being tested, or be acknowledged as limitations of that theory. Changes to measurement model are effectively claims that the items/data are impure indicators of the latent variables specified by theory.\n\nModels should not be led by MI, as Maccallum (1986) demonstrated: \"even under favorable conditions, models arising from specification searches must be viewed with caution.\"\n\nWhile researchers agree that large sample sizes are required to provide sufficient statistical power and precise estimates using SEM, there is no general consensus on the appropriate method for determining adequate sample size. Generally, the considerations for determining sample size include the number of observations per parameter, the number of observations required for fit indexes to perform adequately, and the number of observations per degree of freedom. Researchers have proposed guidelines based on simulation studies (Chou & Bentler, 1995), professional experience (Bentler and Chou, 1987), and mathematical formulas (MacCallum, Browne, and Sugawara, 1996; Westland, 2010).\n\nSample size requirements to achieve a particular significance and power in SEM hypothesis testing are similar for the same model when any of the three algorithms (PLS-PA, LISREL or systems of regression equations) are used for testing.\n\nThe set of models are then interpreted so that claims about the constructs can be made, based on the best fitting model.\n\nCaution should always be taken when making claims of causality even when experimentation or time-ordered studies have been done. The term \"causal model\" must be understood to mean \"a model that conveys causal assumptions\", not necessarily a model that produces validated causal conclusions. Collecting data at multiple time points and using an experimental or quasi-experimental design can help rule out certain rival hypotheses but even a randomized experiment cannot rule out all such threats to causal inference. Good fit by a model consistent with one causal hypothesis invariably entails equally good fit by another model consistent with an opposing causal hypothesis. No research design, no matter how clever, can help distinguish such rival hypotheses, save for interventional experiments.\n\nAs in any science, subsequent replication and perhaps modification will proceed from the initial finding.\n\n\nSeveral software packages exist for fitting structural equation models. LISREL was the first such software, initially released in the 1970s.\n\nThere are also several packages for the R open source statistical environment. The OpenMx R package provides an open source and enhanced version of the Mx application.\n\nScholars consider it good practice to report which software package and version was used for SEM analysis because they have different capabilities and may use slightly different methods to perform similarly-named techniques.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13718339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13718339", "title": "Succedaneous tooth", "text": "Succedaneous tooth\n\nThe succedaneous teeth are the permanent teeth that replace the deciduous teeth. Permanent molars are not succedaneous teeth because they do not replace any primary teeth. Succedaneous teeth originate from successional laminae whereas permanent molars originate from the general dental lamina. \n\nBegin to form as early as 24 weeks.\n\nDental anatomy.\n\n^ Ash, Major M. and Stanley J. Nelson. Wheeler’s Dental Anatomy, Physiology, and Occlusion. 8th edition. 2003. p. 3. .\n"}
{"id": "51011714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51011714", "title": "The Good Food Institute", "text": "The Good Food Institute\n\nThe Good Food Institute (GFI) is a U.S.-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit that promotes plant-based meat, dairy, and egg substitutes as well as clean meat (also known as cultured meat) alternatives to the products of conventional animal agriculture. The organization launched in February 2016 with the vision of creating a healthy, humane, and sustainable food supply. GFI targets scientists, policymakers, and entrepreneurs to promote plant-based products and cellular agriculture.\n\nThe group has conducted activities in Washington D.C., which include filing lawsuits against the FDA and the USDA. \n\nGFI’s promotion of plant-based and \"clean meat\" has been featured on various news outlets including the \"Washington Post Magazine\" and \"VICE\". According to Co-Founder and Executive Director Bruce Friedrich, “it’s likely that, in a few generations, animal slaughter for food will be extremely rare in the developed world.”\n\nAmong GFI's 25 advisors are entrepreneurs, food industry experts, CEOs, scientists, authors, and financial advisors, including:\n\n\nIn June 2016, GFI filed a lawsuit in a D.C. federal court demanding that the FDA turn over all records related to its regulation of the term \"soy milk,\" after the agency failed to respond to several Freedom of Information Act requests GFI submitted in April 2016. According to Politico's Morning Agriculture report, GFI wants the FDA to formally \"allow the use of the term 'soy milk,' and says the agency's inconsistency on the matter has led to 'consumer confusion and an uneven competitive landscape.'\"\n\nAfter filing three Freedom of Information Act requests to obtain documents from the USDA related to its open investigation of the American Egg Board's allegedly anti-competitive actions against egg-free Mayo company, Hampton Creek, GFI sued the agency on Monday, August 8, 2016, for failing to respond to the requests in full.\nAccording to an article on Vice Motherboard, GFI filed FOIA requests in December for meeting minutes and budgetary documents from the Egg Board, but was only given access to documents that had already been made public.\n\nIn September 2016, the Open Philanthropy Project (OPP) awarded GFI a $1,000,000 grant for general support. The grant was made under OPP’s farm animal welfare effort, which is one of their major focus areas given the large number of farmed animals subject to considerable suffering.\n\nGFI has ties with the effective altruism (EA) movement, as helping farmed animals is one of EA's major cause areas. GFI was founded as a sister project of Mercy for Animals, one of EA organization Animal Charity Evaluators' top charities, and GFI Executive Director Bruce Friedrich spoke on EA Global 2016's panel on \"Rethinking Meat and the End of Factory Farming\". In 2016, effective altruist Michael Dickens wrote an essay explaining his decision to donate $20,000 to GFI, arguing it was among the most promising targets for donors interested in maximizing impact.\n\nIn November 2016, Animal Charity Evaluators (ACE) named GFI as one of its Top Charities in its annual animal charity recommendations. The ACE review lists GFI's strengths as its potential to decrease demand for animal products—possibly much more rapidly than moral arguments—and the focus of GFI's leadership on effectiveness. Their weaknesses, according to ACE, include its short track record, the difficulty of developing cost-competitive \"clean meat\", and the possible difficulties with finding and hiring the right staff.\n\nACE estimates that GFI could use $500,000 to $1 million more in 2017 than it did in 2016. These funds would likely go to filling their operating reserve and hiring new staff.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50322370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50322370", "title": "The Immigrant of St. Louis (book)", "text": "The Immigrant of St. Louis (book)\n\nThe Immigrant of St. Louis, a survey (published 1916, written by Ruth Crawford) is a non-fiction book that tells of the average's immigrants lives in St. Louis in the early twentieth century. It includes many graphs and tables that details the number of occupations, households in what district, births, deaths, imprisonments, etc. from each cultural group.\n\nIt was one of the first books written and published for social work. Crawford, throughout the course of the book, emphasizes the need for current citizens to help immigrants assimilate to living in the United States. In this manner, all of the data she collected was to work to increasing social activism and help equalize the members of the St. Louis community.\n\nIn this piece of literature, Crawford touches on subjects of:\n"}
{"id": "245085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245085", "title": "The Young Doctors", "text": "The Young Doctors\n\nThe Young Doctors is an Australian early-evening soap opera. The series was set in the fictional Albert Memorial hospital and primarily concerned with romances between younger members of the hospital staff, rather than typical medical issues and procedures. It screened on the Nine Network from Monday, 8 November 1976 until Wednesday, 30 March 1983. The program was shown in numerous international locations, particularly throughout the United Kingdom and North America, and also in France and Spain.\n\nThe series was created and produced by the Reg Grundy Organisation and started a week earlier than the Nine Network's other soap opera, \"The Sullivans\", which was produced by Crawford Productions. Nine Network made it clear only one of the series would be kept after 13 weeks.\n\nAfter the 13-week trial period \"The Sullivans\" (which had a budget which was three times bigger than \"The Young Doctors\") emerged as the critical success, so \"The Young Doctors\" was cancelled. Fans of \"The Young Doctors\" lobbied Channel 9, who reversed their decision. \"The Young Doctors\" continued in its 6.00 pm slot and had a successful run. After several years, many long running characters left the series and in the final season during 1982 several new cast members were added.\n\nProducer and creator Alan Coleman also left, and was replaced by Sue Masters shortly before the series finished production in late 1982. Masters went on to produce Grundy's stablemate \"Prisoner\" from 1983; several \"The Young Doctors\" cast members, including Judy McBurney, Genevieve Lemon, Babs McMillan and Peter Bensley also went into leading roles in \"Prisoner\" after \"The Young Doctors\" finished.\n\nThe advent of one-day cricket led to Channel 9 moving the show around the schedules. These factors contributed to a decline in ratings which saw the series cancelled in late 1982. The final episode was aired in March 1983.\n\nWhen the series ended after 1396 episodes, it held the record of Australia's longest-running commercial television drama serial, which was previously held by \"Number 96\". This was later surpassed by \"A Country Practice\" and then \"Neighbours\", which is currently the longest-running Australian drama serial.\n\n\"The Young Doctors\" also holds the distinction, rare among long-running Australian dramas, of having never won any sort of television award.\n\nPopular Actress Peta Toppano who appeared in the first season of \"Prisoner\" had also previously appeared in \"The Young Doctors\" for just over a year. One of the more popular cast members was Gwen Plumb, a recipient of the British Empire Medal and AM recipient for her service to the arts and communities service, who portrayed gossippy kiosk lady Ada Simmonds for the length of the series. The original cast members Lyn James who portrayed the doctors secretary Helen Gordon and Tim Page who portrays Dr. Grahame Steele, appeared to the end of the series, as did Judy McBurney as Nurse Tania Livingstone who first appeared in episode 40.\n\nThe relatively long-running serial also achieved modest international cult success, particularly in the United Kingdom, where it aired in a daytime slot on the commercial ITV network. The programme was shown regionally, meaning each region was free to show the series as and when they liked. Central Independent Television were the first ITV region to start the serial from January 1982. Most other regions gradually followed over the next few years and Yorkshire Television were the last to start in 1988. Central were the first to finish in August 1992, and Westcountry Television was the last ITV region to air \"Young Doctors\" in December 1995.\n\nDespite the medical setting, medical procedures rarely figured in storylines, with most of the stories and plots focusing more on the personal life and romances of the staff. The local Club \"Bunnys\" was another venue for the staff to mingle.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the United Kingdom the programme was acquired by 13 of the 14 weekday members of the ITV Network, Scottish Television never purchased the series. Most of the ITV regions initially screened \"The Young Doctors\" at their own regional pace in their 15:30 slot on Mondays and Tuesdays with \"Sons and Daughters\" on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays.\n\nIn November 2007, the Nine Network announced plans to remake the series in conjunction with FremantleMedia. Originally, it was set to be broadcast in 2008 but due to script delays, the premiere date had been pushed back to 2009. The remake was set to be named \"Young Doctors\" (minus \"The\"). However, at the end of 2008, the Nine Network officially passed on the idea. The network decided against the remake, instead, confirming a second series of the popular Australian drama Underbelly. FremantleMedia is currently searching for another television station to contract the programme.\n\nSelected episodes of the serial were released on DVD in October 2006, under the title of \"The Best Romances\". A second set of selected episodes, under the title of \"Classic Cliffhangers\", was released in February 2008. In 1994, prior to the DVDs, a VHS was edited in the UK by \"NTV entertainment\" collecting episodes A, B (pilots) & 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "56339315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56339315", "title": "Thirty-sixth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland", "text": "Thirty-sixth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland\n\nThe Thirty-sixth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland (previously bill no. 29 of 2018) is an amendment to the constitution of Ireland which permits the Oireachtas (parliament of Ireland) to legislate for abortion. The constitution had previously prohibited abortion unless there was a serious risk to the life of the mother.\n\nThe proposal is often described as the Repeal of the Eighth Amendment, referring to the 1983 constitutional amendment which guarantees the unborn the right to life, making abortion illegal unless the pregnancy is life-threatening. The 2018 bill replaces Article 40.3.3° of the Constitution, which was added in 1983 and amended in 1992.\n\nThe bill was introduced to the Oireachtas on 9 March 2018 by the Fine Gael minority coalition government, and completed its passage through both houses on 27 March 2018. It was put to a referendum on 25 May 2018 and approved by 66.4% of voters. It took effect once signed into law by the President on 18 September 2018.\n\nThe British Offences Against the Person Act 1861, which made \"unlawful procurement of a miscarriage\" a crime, remained in force after Irish independence in 1922. The 1983 Eighth Amendment of the Constitution, which declares \"the right to life of the unborn ... equal [to the] right to life of the mother\", was instigated by the Pro-Life Amendment Campaign for fear that the 1861 prohibition might be weakened by liberal legislators or activist judges. The 1992 \"X case\" (Attorney General v. X) ruled that abortion is permitted where pregnancy threatens a woman's life, including by risk of suicide. No regulatory framework within the limited scope of the X case judgment was passed until the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013, impelled by the 2010 A, B and C v Ireland case in the European Court of Human Rights and the 2012 death of Savita Halappanavar after miscarriage. The 2013 act repealed the 1861 act and makes \"destruction of unborn human life\" a crime. In the three years 2014–2016 a total of 77 legal abortions were performed under the 2013 act.\n\nIllegal surgical abortions in Ireland have been practically unknown since the UK's Abortion Act 1967 allowed Irish women to travel to Great Britain for a legal abortion. The 13th and 14th amendments to the constitution, passed in 1992 after the X case, guarantee the right to information about foreign abortions and to travel abroad for an abortion. The number of women at UK abortion clinics giving Irish addresses peaked at 6,673 in 2001 and was 3,265 in 2016. The decline is partly due to unregulated use of abortion pills illegally delivered from online pharmacies.\n\nWhile left-wing parties and feminists opposed the 1983 amendment and have advocated its repeal, this was not supported by the two largest parties for most of the interim, Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael. In the 2010s while both parties' leadership opposed broad liberalisation, some accepted the argument for abortion in cases like fatal foetal abnormalities and pregnancy resulting from rape or incest, which are not permitted by the 1983 amendment. These became the focus of campaigning after the 2013 act. The Abortion Rights Campaign, a pro-choice alliance formed in 2012, holds an annual \"March for Choice\" in Dublin. Pro-life groups have countered with a \"Rally for Life\". In the run up to the 2016 general election, a number of parties committed to a referendum to repeal the Eighth Amendment (Labour, Green Party, Social Democrats, Sinn Féin, and Workers' Party) and a group of feminist law academics published model legislation to show what a post-Eighth Amendment abortion law could look like.\n\nA Fine Gael-led government under Taoiseach Enda Kenny took office after the 2016 election with a programme which promised a randomly selected Citizens' Assembly to report on possible changes to the Eighth Amendment, which would be considered by an Oireachtas committee, to whose report the government would respond officially in debates in both houses of the Oireachtas. Leo Varadkar replaced Enda Kenny as Taoiseach on 14 June 2017 and promised to hold a referendum on abortion in 2018. The Citizens' Assembly, chaired by Supreme Court judge Mary Laffoy, discussed the issue from November 2016 to April 2017 with invited experts and stakeholders, and voted to recommend repealing the existing text and replacing it with an explicit mandate for the Oireachtas to legislate on abortion. It also made recommendations for the consequent legislation, which were more liberal than media commentators had expected. The assembly's report was considered from September to December 2017 by a special Oireachtas committee of 21 members, which also discussed the issue with invited experts; its recommendations by majority vote were broadly similar to those of the assembly. However, it said that because of difficulties legislating for rape and incest, abortion should be legal up to 12 weeks' gestation without restriction; on the other hand, it did not favour socio-economic grounds for abortion after 12 weeks. In January 2018, Minister for Health Simon Harris opened the Dáil debate on the committee's report by listing the numbers from each county who travelled to Great Britain for an abortion in 2016. Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin declared that he had changed his view on the issue and gave his support for Repeal of the Eighth Amendment and for the Committee's recommendations.\n\nFurther action was called into question by a July 2016 High Court ruling that a foetus was a child within the meaning of Article 42A of the Constitution, which guarantees children's rights. The Supreme Court agreed to expedite the government's appeal of the decision, and on 7 March 2018 overturned the High Court judgment, ruling that a foetus was not a child and had no rights other than the right to life mentioned in Article 40.3.3.\n\nThe Amendment proposes to replace the text of Article 40.3.3º, which reads:\n\nAs the amendment passed, the subsection will be replaced with the following text:\n\nThe Department of Health published a policy paper on \"Regulation of Termination of Pregnancy\" on 9 March 2018. This provided an outline of the policies for legislation which would repeal and replace the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 if the Amendment of Constitution Bill was passed in a referendum. Under this scheme, abortion would be permissible in circumstances where:\n\nThe Policy Paper also proposed that:\n\nOn 26 March 2018, Tánaiste Simon Coveney announced he would support legislation on the lines of the policy paper, but suggested that this should be entrenched by requiring a two-thirds supermajority in the Dáil for any later amendment. This was aimed at voters prepared to accept the policy-paper regulations but wary of subsequent liberalisation. Coveney's proposal was dismissed as unconstitutional. On 27 March 2018, the cabinet agreed the general scheme of the proposed \"Regulation of Termination of Pregnancy Bill 2018\", which health minister Simon Harris summarised that evening in the Seanad. The scheme was published online the following day.\n\nEven after the referendum had passed, \"Abortion [would] remain illegal in almost all circumstances until the Oireachtas passes legislation providing otherwise\". Health Minister Simon Harris, speaking a few days before the referendum, said the Government hoped to introduce the bill in the Dail in the autumn and to have passed it by the end of 2018.\n\nThe Thirty-sixth Amendment of the Constitution Bill was introduced by Minister for Health Simon Harris. The debate on the Second Stage began on 9 March 2018. The Bill passed all stages in the Dáil on 21 March.\nThe main vote on the bill was at second stage, with 110 in favour and 32 against. Of the 16 who did not vote at second stage, five voted in favour in subsequent votes. At committee stage, there were votes on Section 2 of the bill (98–18) and the short title (96–20); there was also a vote on the final stage (97–25). Fianna Fáil TDs had a free vote although Micheál Martin was reported to be upset at how many voted against the bill. Fine Gael also gave a free vote, including for ministers.\n\nIn the Seanad, the second stage was held on 27 March, with a 35–10 vote in favour. Remaining stages were the following day, with the bill passed 39–8 at committee stage and 40–10 at final stage. Eight of the thirteen Fianna Fáil senators voted against, as did two of nineteen from Fine Gael, and independent Rónán Mullen.\n\nOn 9 March 2018, Minister for Housing, Planning and Local Government Eoghan Murphy established the statutory Referendum Commission to oversee the referendum campaign, with High Court judge Isobel Kennedy as Chair.\n\nBoth Fine Gael and Fianna Fáil had allowed their TDs a free vote on the issue in the Dáil. However, although Fine Gael \"cannot adopt an official party position because members have been afforded a freedom of conscience vote on issues to do with the referendum\", on 21 April Taoiseach and Fine Gael leader Leo Varadkar launched a Fine Gael 'Vote Yes' campaign for Yes-supporting party members, along with party colleagues, including Minister for Health Simon Harris and Fine Gael referendum coordinator, Josepha Madigan.\n\nOn 8 May 2018, due to controversy over the origin, number, content and targeting of adverts on social media, Facebook announced that it would block advertisements placed by foreign entities, most of whom are in the United States, and limit them to adverts placed by Irish organisations. On 9 May, Google announced that it was blocking all adverts on the referendum from its advertising platform and YouTube, citing concerns around the integrity of elections.\n\nOn 9 May, the fundraising web pages of Together for Yes, Amnesty Ireland and Termination for Medical Reasons were subjected to a denial-of-service attack.\n\nOn 20 May, the parents of Savita Halappanavar called for a Yes vote, her father saying \"I hope the people of Ireland will vote yes for abortion, for the ladies of Ireland and the people of Ireland. My daughter, she lost her life because of this abortion law, because of the diagnosis, and she could not have an abortion. She died.\" After the landslide Yes vote, Halappanavar's father thanked the people of Ireland.\n\nOn 23 May, CNN reported that American-based anti-abortion groups, such as \"Let Them Live\", have flown to Ireland in order to sway voters to vote No to the amendment. They entered into Ireland by lying to Irish border control about their reason for coming to Ireland, claiming they were only in Ireland to document the event and nothing more, therefore breaking Irish law by their activities—they did not obtain a \"Volunteer Visa\", required to do voluntary work.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWhen voters were asked how they voted, exit polls showed the following results:\nWhen respondents were asked if they would support the amendment, opinion polls showed the following results:\nDuring the course of the referendum campaign some surveys asked if respondents supported the proposed legislation allowing termination for any reason for the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. The following results were recorded:\n\nPolls opened at 07:00 IST (UTC+1) and closed at 22:00 IST on 25 May 2018. Twelve offshore islands voted the day before, to allow for possible delays delivering ballot boxes to the count centres. Counting began at 09:00 on 26 May. All Irish citizens entered on the electoral register were eligible to vote. A total of 3,229,672 people were on the annual electoral register (as of 15 February 2018) and an additional 118,389 electors were added to the supplementary register by the closing date of 8 May 2018, an unusually high number of late registrations. Dáil constituencies were used to organise the voting, with the returning officer for each appointed by the city or county council, and results sent to the national returning officer in Dublin. Although a close result had been expected by observers, an exit poll conducted by \"The Irish Times\" predicted a 68% Yes result, while one conducted by RTÉ predicted a similar Yes result of 69.4%. The day after the vote, Save the 8th campaign conceded defeat.\n\nThe turnout of voters, at 2,159,655, was the highest thus far in any Irish constitutional referendum. This beat the previous record, which had been held by the 2015 marriage equality referendum, by 209,930 votes.\n\nAll four regions voted Yes, ranging from 57.5% Yes for Connacht-Ulster to 75.5% for Dublin.\nAccording to exit polls by \"The Irish Times\" and by RTÉ every age group voted Yes except those aged 65 and over, with the highest Yes vote being from the youngest age groups. The details were:\n\nAccording to the exit polls, both genders voted Yes, with women doing so somewhat more heavily than men. The details were:\n\nAccording to the exit polls, both urban and rural voters voted Yes, with urban voters doing so more heavily than rural ones. The detail were:\n\n\nTaoiseach Leo Varadkar said: \"I think what we've seen today really is the culmination of a quiet revolution that’s taken place in Ireland for the past 10 or 20 years. This has been a great exercise in democracy and the people have spoken. The people have said we want a modern constitution for a modern country, that we trust women and we respect them to make the right decision, the right choices about their own healthcare.\"\n\nTánaiste Simon Coveney said: \"For me, the margin of victory is important but equally important is that there is no Dublin versus the rest or no urban/rural divide – in virtually every part of the country, people have voted in big numbers to allow the government and the Oireachtas to change Ireland for the better.\"\n\nOrla O'Connor, director of the National Women's Council and co-director of Together for Yes thanked Yes voters, saying: \"This is phenomenal. This was a grassroots, people campaign and I think what today will show is that this is a people's referendum. Presuming that these exit polls are correct, the public haven’t just spoken, this is a resounding roar from Irish people about the horrors of the Eighth and how women should no longer be treated as second class citizens in our society.\"\n\nCora Sherlock, of the LoveBoth campaign, said: \"This is a very sad day for Ireland, that people have voted for abortion. We need to remember what they have won. All that is being offered is abortion. There has been no talking about why Irish woman travel, what options could have been put on the table.\"\n\nDeclan Ganley tweeted: \"I've been thinking about conscientious objection. I will not pay for the killing of Ireland's unborn children, I cannot be a party to it. So there will need to be a way to exempt conscientious objectors taxes from paying for them in any way, shape or form.\"\n\nCatholic Bishop Kevin Doran said: \"While the Catholic Church is a family and nobody ever gets struck off what I'd say to a Catholic who voted Yes is this, if you voted Yes knowing and intending that abortion would be the outcome then you should consider coming to confession.\"\n\nUK Prime Minister Theresa May contacted Taoiseach Leo Varadkar, and posted to Twitter, saying \"The Irish Referendum yesterday was an impressive show of democracy which delivered a clear and unambiguous result. I congratulate the Irish people on their decision and all of #Together4Yes on their successful campaign.\" However, she later reiterated her position that abortion is considered a devolved matter in Northern Ireland, and accordingly that the UK government would not intervene. This followed a statement from Arlene Foster, leader of the Northern Ireland's anti-abortion DUP, whose votes are needed to give May's Conservative Government its Parliamentary majority, that the issue should be decided by the Northern Ireland Assembly.\n\nBut senior Conservatives, such as Commons Health Committee chairperson Sarah Wollaston and education minister Anne Milton, backed calls for a free vote on the issue, while Labour MP Stella Creasy said she would table an amendment on the matter to the Domestic Violence Bill and said that over 150 parliamentarians had expressed support for the change, and Labour's shadow Attorney General Shami Chakrabarti called the issue a test for May's feminism. May's spokesperson refused to say whether Conservative MPs would be given a free vote in such a \"hypothetical\" situation, but said that there had been free votes on the abortion issue in the past.\n\nThe result re-opened the debate about the legality of abortion in Northern Ireland. In all constituent countries of the United Kingdom but Northern Ireland, abortion is legal in many circumstances under the Abortion Act 1967. Abortion in Northern Ireland has historically been considered a devolved matter to be decided by the Northern Ireland Assembly.\nIn Belfast a rally took place advocating for the liberalisation of abortion laws in Northern Ireland, where there were calls for the UK government to step in. UK intervention to liberalise abortion laws in Northern Ireland is opposed by the Democratic Unionist Party, the largest party in Northern Ireland and which currently supports the minority Conservative government in the UK.\n\n\nThe Provisional Referendum Certificate was signed by Barry Ryan, the Referendum Returning Officer, on 28 May 2018, and published in \"Iris Oifigiúil\" on 29 May. Challenges against the validity of the referendum must be brought within seven days of publication.\n\nThree petitions challenging the result were made within the deadline, by Joanna Jordan, Charles Byrne, and Ciarán Tracey. These alleged variously that the Referendum Commission information booklet was biased and that the electoral register was unreliable, with unexplained deletion of older voters' details and failure to delete those of emigrants who were thus able to travel back to vote despite being ineligible. Jordan's unsuccessful petition against the children's rights amendment delayed its enactment from 2012 until 2015. Enactment of the 2015 marriage equality amendment was similarly delayed for three months.\n\nThe applications seeking leave to bring judicial review proceedings were heard in the High Court from 26 to 29 June. Tracey withdrew and leave was refused for another man, Diarmaid McConville, to take over his application. On 20 July Justice Peter Kelly ruled against the other two applicants, saying they had failed to provide \"prima facie\" evidence of anything likely to have changed the result of the vote, but left them a week to challenge this in the Court of Appeal. Costs were awarded against both applicants. Byrne did not appeal, while Jordan's appeal was heard on 17 August.\n\nSeparately, on 31 July the Court of Appeal rejected McConville's appeal against the refusal to allow him to take over Tracey's petition application, but gave him time to apply to the Supreme Court, which on 16 August denied him leave to appeal. On 27 August, the Court of Appeal dismissed Jordan's challenge, with Justice George Birmingham stating that \"Jordan's assertions were so entirely devoid of substance that we can only conclude they were made with reckless and irresponsible abandon\". Before the 31 August deadline, Jordan applied to the Supreme Court for leave to appeal; the court decided on 7 September to refuse to hear the appeal, thus allowing the amendment to be signed into law by President Higgins on 18 September 2018.\n\nEven though the referendum has been carried, \"Abortion will remain illegal in almost all circumstances until the Oireachtas passes legislation providing otherwise\", which the Government originally hoped to introduce into the Dáil in the autumn, and to have passed by the end of 2018, according to Health Minister Simon Harris, speaking a few days before the referendum. However, after the referendum there were calls for the process to be speeded up, and Harris said that the bill would be introduced before the summer recess and would be sent to the President for signature by the autumn. \"The Irish Times\" reported on 6 June that the Dáil second stage would begin on 11 July, possibly extending the Dáil term, and that remaining Oireachtas stages would be in September and October. The introduction of legislation was held up until after the processing of the petitions against the referendum result.\n\nMedia had speculated before the vote that a narrow Yes majority would encourage No-supporting legislators to obstruct or weaken the legislative provisions compared to the draft published in March. Conversely, media said afterwards that the large majority made such moves unlikely; in particular, Fianna Fáil opponents would not \"stand in the way\" of the \"will of the people\".\n\nAn updated general scheme of the Health (Regulation of Termination of Pregnancy) Bill 2018 was published by the Department of Health on 10 July. The final text was agreed by the cabinet at a meeting on 27 September and published the same day. Its second reading in the Dáil was introduced by minister Simon Harris on 4 October.\n\nOfficial:\n\nNews:\n"}
{"id": "9046614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9046614", "title": "Tooth eruption", "text": "Tooth eruption\n\nTooth eruption is a process in tooth development in which the teeth enter the mouth and become visible. It is currently believed that the periodontal ligament plays an important role in tooth eruption. The first human teeth to appear, the deciduous (primary) teeth (also known as baby or milk teeth), erupt into the mouth from around 6 months until 2 years of age, in a process known as \"teething\". These teeth are the only ones in the mouth until a person is about 6 years old creating the primary dentition stage. At that time, the first permanent tooth erupts and begins a time in which there is a combination of primary and permanent teeth, known as the mixed dentition stage, which lasts until the last primary tooth is lost. Then, the remaining permanent teeth erupt into the mouth during the permanent dentition stage.\n\nAlthough researchers agree that tooth eruption is a complex process, there is little agreement on the identity of the mechanism that controls eruption. There have been many theories over time that have been eventually disproven. According to Growth Displacement Theory, tooth is pushed upward into the mouth by the growth of the tooth's root in opposite direction. Continued Bone Formation Theory advocated that a tooth is pushed upward by the growth of the bone around the tooth. In addition, some believed teeth were pushed upward by vascular pressure or by an anatomic feature called the cushioned hammock. The cushioned hammock theory, first proposed by Harry Sicher, was taught widely from the 1930s to the 1950s. This theory postulated that a ligament below a tooth, which Sicher observed under a microscope on a histologic slide, was responsible for eruption. Later, the \"ligament\" Sicher observed was determined to be merely an artifact created in the process of preparing the slide.\n\nThe most widely held current theory is that while several forces might be involved in eruption, the periodontal ligament provides the main impetus for the process. Theorists hypothesize that the periodontal ligament promotes eruption through the shrinking and cross-linking of their collagen fibers and the contraction of their fibroblasts.\n\nThere is good evidence from experimental animals that a traction force is unlikely to be involved in tooth eruption: Animals treated with lathyrogens that interfere with collagen cross-link formation showed similar eruption rates to control animals, provided occlusal forces were removed.\n\nInherent in most of the theories outlined above, is the idea that a force is generated in the periodontal ligament beneath unerupted teeth, and that this force physically drives teeth out through the bone. This idea may have been superseded by a further recent theory. This new theory proposes firstly that areas of tension and compression are generated in the soft tissues surrounding unerupted teeth by the distribution of bite forces through the jaws. These patterns of tension and compression, are further proposed to result in patterns of bone resorption and deposition that lift the tooth into the mouth. This theory is based on Wolff's Law, which is the long established idea that bone changes shape in accordance with the forces applied. Significantly, a recent finite element analysis study, analysing the distribution of force through the jaw of an 8 year old child, observed overall compression in the soft tissues above, and tension in the soft tissues below, unerupted teeth. Because bone resorbs when compressed, and forms under tension, this finite element analysis strongly supports the new theory. Further work is required, however, to confirm this new theory experimentally.\n\nAlthough tooth eruption occurs at different times for different people, a general eruption timeline exists. Typically, humans have 20 primary teeth and 32 permanent teeth. The dentition goes through three stages. The first, known as primary dentition stage, occurs when only primary teeth are visible. Once the first permanent tooth erupts into the mouth, the teeth that are visible are in the mixed (or transitional) dentition stage. After the last primary tooth is shed or exfoliates out of the mouth, the teeth are in the permanent dentition stage. Each patient should be assigned a dentition period to allow for effective dental treatment.\n\nPrimary dentition stage starts on the arrival of the mandibular central incisors, typically from around six months, and lasts until the first permanent molars appear in the mouth, usually at six years. There are 20 primary teeth and they typically erupt in the following order: (1) central incisor, (2) lateral incisor, (3) first molar, (4) canine, and (5) second molar. As a general rule, four teeth erupt for every six months of life, mandibular teeth erupt before maxillary teeth, and teeth erupt sooner in females than males. During primary dentition, the tooth buds of permanent teeth develop inferior to the primary teeth, close to the palate or tongue.\n\nMixed dentition stage starts when the first permanent tooth appears in the mouth, usually at five or six years with the first permanent molar, and lasts until the last primary tooth is lost, usually at ten, eleven, or twelve years. There are 32 permanent teeth and those of the maxillae erupt in a different order from permanent mandibular teeth. Maxillary teeth typically erupt in the following order: (1) first molar (2) central incisor, (3) lateral incisor, (4) first premolar, (5) second premolar, (6) canine, (7) second molar, and (8) third molar. Mandibular teeth typically erupt in the following order: (1) first molar (2) central incisor, (3) lateral incisor, (4) canine, (5) first premolar, (6) second premolar, (7) second molar, and (8) third molar. While this is the most common eruption order, variation is not uncommon.\n\nSince there are no premolars in the primary dentition, the primary molars are replaced by permanent premolars. If any primary teeth are shed or lost before permanent teeth are ready to replace them, some posterior teeth may drift forward and cause space to be lost in the mouth. This may cause crowding and/or misplacement once the permanent teeth erupt, which is usually referred to as malocclusion. Orthodontics may be required in such circumstances for an individual to achieve a functioning and aesthetic dentition.\n\nThe permanent dentition begins when the last primary tooth is lost, usually at 11 to 12 years, and lasts for the rest of a person's life or until all of the teeth are lost (edentulism). During this stage, permanent third molars (also called \"wisdom teeth\") are frequently extracted because of decay, pain or impactions. The main reasons for tooth loss are decay or periodontal disease.\n\nActive eruption is known as eruption of teeth into the mouth towards the occlusal plane. This is a natural path of eruption of all the teeth as they emerge from gingiva and continue erupting until they make contact with the opposing tooth.\n\nPassive eruption is known as movement of the gingiva apically or away from the crown of the tooth to the level of Cementoenamel junction (CEJ) after the tooth has erupted completely. Problems in gingival tissue migrating apically can give rise to what is known as Altered or Delayed passive eruption. In this phenomenon, the gingival tissues fail to move apically and thus lead to shorter clinical crowns with more square-shaped teeth and appearance of what is known as Gummy smile.\n\nCoslet et al. classified delayed passive eruption into two types which related the bone crest of a tooth to the Mucogingival junction (MGJ) of that tooth. These two groups were further divided based on the position of the alveolar bone crest to the cementoenamel junction. \nAbnormalities in tooth eruption (timing and sequence) is often caused by genetics and may result in malocclusion. In severe cases, such as in Down syndrome, the eruption may be delayed by several years and some teeth may never erupt.\n\n"}
{"id": "32090767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32090767", "title": "Treponema pallidum particle agglutination assay", "text": "Treponema pallidum particle agglutination assay\n\nThe \"Treponema pallidum\" particle agglutination assay (also called TPPA test) is an indirect agglutination assay used for detection and titration of antibodies against the causative agent of syphilis, \"Treponema pallidum\" subspecies \"pallidum\".\n\nIn the test, gelatin particles are sensitized with \"T. pallidum\" antigen. Patient serum is mixed with the reagent containing the sensitized gelatin particles. The particles aggregate to form clumps when the patient serum is positive for syphilis. In other words, the patient's serum contains antibodies to \"T. pallidum\". A negative test shows no clumping of gelatin particles. This is a type of specific treponemal test for syphilis. \n\nA similar specific treponemal test for syphilis is the \"Treponema pallidum\" hemagglutination assay or TPHA. TPHA is an indirect hemagglutination assay used for the detection and titration of antibodies against the causative agent of syphilis, \"Treponema pallidum\" subspecies \"pallidum\".\n\nIn the test, red blood cells (erythrocytes) are sensitized with antigens from \"T. pallidum pallidum\". The cells then aggregate on the surface of a test dish if exposed to the serum of a patient with syphilis. It is used as a confirmatory test for syphilis infection. A negative test result shows a tight button or spot of red blood cells on the surface of the test dish. Often a plastic test plate containing many small \"wells\" is used as the test dish so that many patients may be tested at the same time but their results can be kept separate from each other. Please note the image of the wells on the test plate and the positive and negative test results look different.\n\nFor primary syphilis, TPPA has a sensitivity of 85% to 100%, and a specificity of 98% to 100%. In secondary and late-latent syphilis, TPPA has a sensitivity of 98% to 100%.\n\nAntibodies against other treponemal organisms, such as the \"T. pallidum\" subspecies \"endemicum\", \"pertenue\", or \"carateum\", can cause false positive results. A variety of methods exist to adsorb these antibodies from the test sample before hemagglutination.\n"}
{"id": "37738366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37738366", "title": "Verification bias", "text": "Verification bias\n\nIn statistics, verification bias is a type of measurement bias in which the results of a diagnostic test affect whether the gold standard procedure is used to verify the test result. This type of bias is also known as \"work-up bias\" or \"referral bias\".\n\nIn clinical practice, verification bias is more likely to occur when a preliminary diagnostic test is negative. Because many gold standard tests can be invasive, expensive, and carry a higher risk (e.g. angiography, biopsy, surgery), patients and physicians may be more reluctant to undergo further work-up if a preliminary test is negative. \n\nIn cohort studies, obtaining a gold standard test on every patient may not always be ethical, practical, or cost effective. These studies can thus be subjected to verification bias. One method to limit verification bias in clinical studies is to perform gold standard testing in a random sample of study participants. \n\nIn most situations, verification bias introduces a sensitivity estimate that is too high and a specificity that is too low. \n"}
{"id": "44006329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44006329", "title": "Vienna School of Osteopathy", "text": "Vienna School of Osteopathy\n\nThe Vienna School of Osteopathy (WSO) is a private educational institution in Austria specialising in osteopathy. Extra occupational and postgradual trainings are offered for physiotherapists and doctors of medicine. University programmes are also open for graduates from other osteopathy schools. Up to now 550 students finished their training and currently 350 students are enrolled in training groups. Established in 1991, the WSO was the first provider of osteopathic training at academic level in Austria. It is located in Vienna, Hietzing at Frimbergergasse 6.\n\nThe \"Vienna School of Osteopathy (WSO)\" was established through its funding body \"International School of Osteopathy\" by Raphael van Assche, Margot Seitschek and Raimund Engel in cooperation with Bernard Ligner and the \"Centre International d’Osteopathie\" in St. Etienne, France. In 1998 this cooperation model was expanded to the \"European School of Osteopathy (ESO)\" in Maidstone, Great Britain.\n\nThe first courses were held in the facilities of the \"Kaiser Franz Josef Hotel\" and in the \"Kolpinghaus Währing\" in Vienna. In 1997 the WSO was relocated to Frimbergergasse 6 in the 13th district of Vienna. From the very start courses were held by mostly international lecturers.\n\nSince 2005 the university programme \"Master of Science (Osteopathy)\" is offered in cooperation with the Danube University Krems.<ref name=\"Newsletter 18/2005 der DUK\">\"Newsletter 18/2005\" of the Danube University Krems. Website of the Danube University Krems. 1 September 2014.</ref> In this context scientific work at the WSO was enhanced and further developed. Diploma thesis and master thesis of a series of European osteopathy schools are published in the \"Osteopathic Research Web\", which was initiated and is managed by the WSO. Since September 2009 the \"Teaching Hospital\" plays a vital role in WSO's osteopatic education. It is located in the facilities of the \"Wiener Privatklinik\" in Pelikangasse 15 in the 9th district of Vienna.\n\nThe training at the WSO is separated into two parts, the basic education and the university programme. The \"basis education\" comprises 1.200 course units and is a profound and overall osteopathic training, taught by an international team. The university programmes \"Master of Science (Osteopathy)\" and \"Academic Expert (Osteopathy)\" are offered in cooperation with the Danube University Krems and encompass 1090 and 535 course units, respectively. Furthermore the WSO is provider of a broad range of postgraduate seminars.\n\nThe WSO is politically tightly linked. It participated significantly in the founding of the \"Austrian Society for Osteopathy (ÖGO)\". Together with the \"Osteopathic Centre for Children (OCC)\" in London, Great Britain the WSO established the \"Osteopathisches Zentrum für Kinder (OZK)\" as a training centre for paediatric osteopathy, which subsequently became an autonomous institution. Since 2000 the WSO is involved in the \"Osteopathic European Academic Network (OsEAN')\", which was founded in Great Britain. The WSO is a member school of OsEAN with Raimund Engel as president since 2006. The WSO also worked actively in the establishment of the \"Forum for Osteopathic Regulation in Europe (FORE)\". Through its cooperation with \"Fortbildungszentrum Klagenfurt (FBZ)\" the educational institution can offer another course location in Graz, Austria. In 2010, Raimund Engel took part in writing the \"Benchmarks for Training in Osteopathy\" of the World Health Organization.\n\nIn the \"Teaching Hospital\" the WSO offers mandatory clinic days in collaboration with the \"Wiener Privatklinik\". Practicing in the \"Teaching Hospital\" together with supervised treatments form the practical part of WSO’s education. In addition, in the university programmes, practical work is documented in a portfolio.\n\nThe WSO is certified by \"Ö-Cert\" and \"CERT NÖ\" and is involved in a certification at European level from the European Committee for Standardization, conducted by the Austrian Standards Institute in May, 2014. Training at the WSO also correspond with the Standards of the \"Benchmarks for Training in Osteopathy\" of the World Health Organization.\n\nRaimund Engel, co-founder of the WSO, is Managing Director and Erich Mayer-Fally is Medical Director.\n\n"}
{"id": "33417946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33417946", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in New Zealand", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in New Zealand\n\nThe provision of water supply and sanitation in New Zealand is generally of good quality in urban areas. It is provided by local government called Territorial Authorities which include 15 city councils in urban areas and 53 district councils in rural areas. The legal framework includes the Health Act 1956 amended in 2007, the Local Government Act 2002 and the Resource Management Act 1991.\n\nMuch of rural New Zealand relies on collection of rainwater for water supply and septic tanks for sewage disposal.\n\nNew Zealand enjoys high rainfall, especially along its west coast and the country is notable for its many large, and sometimes braided rivers. However, although the population is relatively small, the population density in North Island is much greater than in South Island where most of the rain falls. \n\nIn rural communities, it remains common-place for houses to be served by their own private supply - usually by the collection of rain-water from roofs. This practice is not constrained by any regulations.\n\nAll significant sized urban developments are served by municipal sewers which drain to modern treatment works with final discharges to river or the sea. Rural communities and isolated housing is served by septic tanks or by chemical toilets or earth closets depending on location and usage.\nThe 135 wastewater treatment plants discharge into the following type of environment:\n\nThe low level of water pollution and the relative abundance of rain-fall ensures that water shortages are relatively uncommon. Regional authorities provide abstraction, treatment and distribution infrastructure to most developed areas. Many municipal systems draw water from deep aquifers thus avoiding the cost of long pipelines. Some of these aquifer fed systems such as that serving Christchurch was of sufficiently good quality that no disinfection of final water was practised until the recent earthquake events. Following restoration of the network the water is no longer chlorinated. Water taken from shallower or less secure aquifers are at risk of contamination. An outbreak of Cryptosporidiosis in Hawkes Bay area affecting Hastings and Napier has been attributed to the consequences of intensive agricultural in the area overlying the aquifer. \n\nAbout 87% of the population receives drinking water from local authorities, including 53 District Councils and 5 Unitary Authorities. \n\nDomestic water usage demand is relatively poorly documented with few authorities collecting relevant or reliable information and several relying exclusively on abstraction volumes as a surrogate for use. For example, in Nelson residential water use was estimated at 180 liters/person/day while total water use including commercial use and public buildings was estimated at 500 litre/person/day.\n\nIn 2009, the country's infrastructure for drinking water was valued at about NZ$11 billion. For the years 2009 to 2019, local authorities' operational expenditure for supplying drinking water was projected at an average of NZ$605 million each year, and the average annual capital expenditure at NZ$390 million.\n\nIn most of New Zealand, the cost of water supply and sewage disposal is recovered from house holders through property tax as a percentage of the rateable value of the property. In urban Auckland, water use is metered and charged separately from rates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7675311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7675311", "title": "Without Pity: A Film About Abilities", "text": "Without Pity: A Film About Abilities\n\nWithout Pity: A Film About Abilities is a 1996 American television documentary film narrated by Christopher Reeve. This documentary celebrates the efforts of the disabled to live full, productive lives. It originally premiered on HBO on October 8, 1996.\n\nThe viewers meet a cross section of Americans in the film. A young woman with cerebral palsy who cares for her baby, while a man with cerebral palsy lives successfully on his own after 40 years in a Colorado institution. The film takes a trip to school with a remarkable 6-year-old boy without arms or legs, visits the workplace of a blind computer expert, and meets a professor with polio who teaches the history of discrimination against people with disabilities. A young man recently made paraplegic discusses his daily battle with depression and his determination and motivation to overcome it and get on with his life.\n\nThis film applauds the resilience and potential of people with disabilities and their need to be determined to be self-sufficient.\n"}
{"id": "25217362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25217362", "title": "Women's Memorial March", "text": "Women's Memorial March\n\nThe Women's Memorial March is an annual event held on Valentine's Day that originated in Vancouver's Downtown Eastside, to call attention to missing and murdered women in the district. As of 2009, the Missing Women's Task Force, a joint program of the Vancouver Police and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, lists 39 women as missing from the Downtown Eastside.\n\nThe event was initiated by First Nations women in 1992, when the body of Cheryl Anne Joe was found dismembered at the corner of Powell and Salsbury streets. The march became an annual event to protest the high numbers of women missing and murdered in the community.\n\nThe event has since spread to other Western Canadian cities, including Edmonton and more recently, Calgary. A 2014 study by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police found that nearly 1,200 aboriginal women were murdered or went missing between 1980 and 2012 although some investigators believe the numbers are actually far higher.\n\nBy the year 2009, close to 67,000 Aboriginal women who were aged 15 and above reported being subjected to violence within the previous 12 months. About 63% of these were aged 15 to 34 years old. 76% of the incidents reported were non-spousal violence and were not reported to police, as is the case with incidents of violence against Aboriginal women. Although many of these crimes against Aboriginal women were not reported to police or other service organizations, such as shelters, etc., 98% of women victimized told an informal source such as a friend or family member.\n\nAccording to Dara Culhane, \"the annual Valentine's Day Women's Memorial March gives political expression to a complex process through which Aboriginal women here are struggling to change the language, metaphors, and image through which they come to be (re)known as they emerge into public visibility\". The Women's Memorial March originated in 1991 in inner city Vancouver on February 14 as a day of remembrance to honor those women who have been murdered or missing.\n\nSince 1983, there has been a reported 61 cases of mostly Aboriginal women who are missing in Vancouver's Downtown Eastside. Marches such as the Women's Memorial bring to light what Culhane terms the visibility of Aboriginal women. Women's Memorial Marches are not just held in Vancouver, but also Calgary, Edmonton, Montreal, Toronto and Victoria,BC.\n\nSome specific cases which illustrate the depth of the problem of violence against aboriginal women in Canada were highlighted in a report by Amnesty International in 2004. They include the murder of 19-year-old Helen Betty Osborne who was killed November 12, 1971 after a night out with friends in The Pas, Manitoba, a town of 6,000 which was segregated between Indigenous and non-indigenous Canadians. She was accosted by four non-indigenous men at 2 a.m. while walking back to her house. Osborne refused to have sex with the men, and was then forced into their car where she was beaten and sexually assaulted. She was then taken to a local cabin, beaten some more and stabbed to death.\n\nThe police who were assigned to the case failed to act on specific tips that pointed to the four likely perpetrators. The car that was used during the crime was not searched until a year later (1972). By 1972, police concluded that they didn't have enough evidence for the case. Only twenty years later did the Manitoba Justice Inquiry conclude that the murder was indeed fueled by racism and sexism. Charges were eventually brought in October 1986 when new evidence was released. Dwayne Johnson was found guilty in 1987 and sentenced to life in prison. Among the other men, one was acquitted and the others never charged.\n\nAn example of the perceived indifference to the disappearance of Indigenous women is seen in the case of Shirley Lonethunder, a Cree woman from the White Bear First Nations reserve in Saskatchewan who was last seen by family in December 1991. At the time, she was a 25-year-old mother of two. She was a drug user and occasionally worked in the sex trade, according to family members. The family became aware that she was missing in March 1992, when Lonethunder's attorney contacted them to say she had missed a court date. According to Lonethunder's relatives, Saskatoon police investigators showed little interest in the case. Six months after filing a missing person report for his sister, Lonethunder's brother contacted the police to ask about progress on the case, only to be told they had no record of the report.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27622351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27622351", "title": "Zimbabwe at the Paralympics", "text": "Zimbabwe at the Paralympics\n\nZimbabwe has been competing at the Paralympic Games since the country became independent in 1980; it had previously competed as Rhodesia. Zimbabwe was absent from the Games in 1988 and 1992, returning in 1996 with a two-man delegation, and has competed at every edition of the Summer Paralympics since then. It has never taken part in the Winter Paralympics.\n\nZimbabweans have won a total of 2 gold medals, 9 silver, and 6 bronze. The country's most successful year, by far, was 1980, when Zimbabweans won 8 silver medals and 4 bronze - all but two won by Sandra James and Eileen Robertson, across events in several sports. Zimbabwe's first gold medal was won by Elliot Mujaji in 2000, in the 100m sprint (T46 category). Mujaji won Zimbabwe's second (and most recent) Paralympic gold medal in the same event four years later. Zimbabwe have since failed to win any medals after 2004.\n\nThe Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee was only officially launched and registered in 2010. Prior to this, \"the government provided financial aid during the Paralympic Games, [but] there was no co-ordinated mechanism to maintain athletes' momentum between the Games\", and athletes \"had to find their own sponsor, coach and manager who would finance the training, travelling and their participation at competitions\".\n\n"}
