{"id": "38311559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38311559", "title": "1901 in philosophy", "text": "1901 in philosophy\n\n1901 in philosophy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20808102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20808102", "title": "1981 England riots", "text": "1981 England riots\n\nIn 1981, England suffered serious riots across many major cities. They were perceived as race riots between communities, in all cases the main motives for the riots were related to racial tension and inner city deprivation. The riots were caused by a distrust of the police and authority. The four main riots that occurred were the Brixton riot in London, the Handsworth riots in Birmingham, the Chapeltown riot in Leeds and the Toxteth riots in Liverpool.\n\nIn all four main cases, the areas had large ethnic minority communities, who had largely come from the Commonwealth in the 1950s and 1960s to do low paid manual jobs. All the areas suffered from poor housing (mostly dating from the 19th and early 20th centuries), high unemployment and particular problems with racial tensions. According to the Scarman report which was subsequently commissioned by the UK government, the riots were a spontaneous outburst of built-up resentment sparked by particular incidents. Lord Scarman stated that \"complex political, social and economic factors\" created a \"disposition towards violent protest\". The Scarman report highlighted problems of racial disadvantage and inner-city decline, warning that \"urgent action\" was needed to prevent racial disadvantage becoming an \"endemic, ineradicable disease threatening the very survival of our society\".\n\nBrixton (London), Toxteth (Liverpool) and Chapeltown (Leeds) were originally built as affluent areas of the city. However the relocation of industry, rising popularity of homes on new private housing estates since the 1930s, poor connections and the influx of migrant workers had led to a downfall in their fortunes and the large Victorian terraces and villas were often divided up into low rent bed sits, and many of those still existing as houses had been bought by landlords who let them to tenants.\n\nThe Conservative Party government elected in 1979 had instituted new powers for the Police under the Vagrancy Act of 1824 to stop and search people based on only a 'reasonable suspicion' that an offence had been committed — hence their common name of \"sus laws\". These were applied disproportionately to the black community, and caused widespread resentment amongst young black men. The majority of these were not immigrants; they were the British-born children of immigrants, mostly born in the late 1950s or the first half of the 1960s.\n\nThe election of the Conservative government in 1979 had also seen the implementation of monetarist economic policies which were designed to tackle inflation, which initially rose to 18% in the first few months of the Thatcher administration and was still above 10% by 1981 and which had been at 13% by the end of James Callaghan's Labour Party government in May 1979. \n\nAlthough inflation was falling by 1981, unemployment was still rising and the recession was now in its second year, passing the 2.5 million mark in April 1981 having stood at 1.5 million two years earlier. Less than a decade earlier, unemployment had still been in six figures and it had stood at less than 400,000 as recently as the mid 1960s. The inner city areas affected by the 1981 riots were among those hit particularly hard by the recession and the unemployment and other social issues which came with it. \n\nThis level of unemployment, not seen since the 1930s, had led to mass discontent in the working class areas of Britain most affected by the recession.\n\nThe Asian community also felt isolated and vulnerable to racist attack. The Police were given new powers to question people about their immigration status. Resentment arose that these laws were applied, but the police were failing to protect the Asian community from violence. On 11 July 1981, the \"Bradford 12\" — a group of Asian youths, members of the \"United Black Youth League\" — were arrested for manufacturing petrol bombs, allegedly to protect their community from a threatened attack. At the subsequent trial, they were acquitted by a jury, on the grounds of self defence.\n\nOn 18 January 1981, thirteen Black youths died in the New Cross Fire in London. The police quickly dismissed a racial motive for the apparent arson attack; and the local Black community were dismayed by the indifference shown in the press towards the deaths. 15,000 people marched demanding action to Central London, in the largest Black issue demonstration seen in the UK.\n\nRacial tensions continued to rise in the early part of the year. On 28 March 1981, Enoch Powell — by then an Ulster Unionist MP, but still an influence on the Conservative Party — gave a speech in which he warned of the dangers of a \"racial civil war\" in Britain. By 6 April, it was announced that overall unemployment had risen from 1.5 million to 2.5 million in 12 months; and that joblessness among ethnic minorities had risen faster, up 82% in the same period. During March and April, the Metropolitan Police begin \"Operation Swamp 81\", a London-wide campaign against burglary and robbery. In Brixton, over only six days, 120 plain-clothes officers stopped 943 people, arresting 118 — predominantly Black youths. The police justified their heavy-handed policing by statistics showing that while street robberies had increased 38% across London between 1976–80; in Brixton it had risen 138%.\n\nThe first disturbances began in Brixton over the weekend of 10-12 April 1981, and were followed in July by a series of similar disturbances in more than 35 cities and towns, especially Liverpool. In London, these included Dalston, Stoke Newington, Clapham, Hounslow and Acton. Leech notes \"Here these were not race riots - riots between races. Rather the conflict was with police as symbols of white authority, with state racism and criminalisation of black communities\".\n\nThese riots by the unemployed called the Government to attention that strategies for helping young people into work were not working. The Youth Training Scheme and suchlike were brought in.\n\nThe Association of Chief Police Officers, who develop police policy in England, produced their \"Public Order Manual\" in response to the riots. This was subsequently used in training by police forces throughout Britain.\n\nThe UK government commissioned the Scarman report two days after the Brixton Riots. The terms of reference for the enquiry were \"to inquire urgently into the serious disorder in Brixton on 10–12 April 1981 and to report, with the power to make recommendations\".\n\nScarman was concerned with the \"plight\" of the ethnic communities in UK inner cities and their relationship with the rest of the national \"community\". He concluded that it was essential that \"people are encouraged to secure a stake in, feel a pride in, and have a sense of responsibility for their own area\". He called for a policy of \"direct coordinated attack on racial disadvantage\". \n\nAs a consequence of the Scarman report a new code for police behaviour was put forward in the \"Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984\"; and the act also created an independent Police Complaints Authority, established in 1985, to attempt to restore public confidence in the police.\n\nThe sus law was repealed on 27 August 1981, when the Criminal Attempts Act 1981 received Royal Assent.\n\nWhile there were common root causes, the triggers of the riots were different.\n\nOn the evening of 10 April, at around 17:15, a black youth was stabbed by three other black youths in an attack by a police patrol in Atlantic Road. As he was being helped, a large hostile crowd gathered. As the police tried to take him to a waiting car on Railton Road, the crowd intervened. The police were attacked and the struggle only ended when more police officers arrived; the youth was taken to a hospital. The crowd is reported to have believed that the police stopped and questioned the stabbed youth, rather than help him. Rumours spread that the youth had been left to die by the police or that the police looked on as the stabbed youth was lying on the street. Over 200 youths reportedly turned on the police. In response the police decided to increase the number of police foot patrols in Railton Road, despite the tensions, and continue \"Operation Swamp 81\" throughout the night of Friday the 10th and into the following day, Saturday the 11th of April. During the disturbances, 299 police were injured, and at least 65 civilians. 61 private vehicles and 56 police vehicles were damaged or destroyed. 28 premises were burned and another 117 damaged and looted. 82 arrests were made. Reports suggested that up to 5,000 people were involved in the riot.\n\nThe first riot in Handsworth took place on 10 July 1981. The second larger riot took place between 9 and 11 September 1985. The riots were reportedly sparked by the arrest of a man near the Acapulco Cafe, Lozells and a police raid on the Villa Cross public house in the same area. Hundreds of people attacked police and property, looting and smashing, even setting off fire bombs.\n\nThe exact trigger for the riots is unclear, although much speculation took place in the local and national press. By 1981, Chapeltown was experiencing a high level of violent crime, tensions were high, particularly amongst the area's Caribbean majority. The high crime brought about a police purge and the riots took place in July 1981.\n\nThe Merseyside police force had, at the time, a poor reputation within the black community for stopping and searching young black men in the area, under the \"sus\" laws, and the perceived heavy-handed arrest of Leroy Alphonse Cooper on Friday 3 July, watched by an angry crowd, led to a disturbance in which three policemen were injured.\n\nThere was also rioting during 1981 in a number of other English cities and towns, although most of these riots were less serious and attracted less media attention than the highly publicised rioting in areas like Brixton and Toxteth.\n\nRioting also occurred in the Dingle and Cantril Farm districts of Liverpool.\n\nBrixton was not the only part of London to be affected by rioting. Disturbances in the districts of Southall and Battersea resulted in fire stations being targeted by rioters and ultimately evacuated for the safety of staff. There was also rioting in Ellesmere Port, Wolverhampton, Sheffield, Nottingham and parts of Tyneside and Humberside. Several of these areas were already known for racial tension and most of them had high levels of unemployment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55667591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55667591", "title": "Ana Cofiño", "text": "Ana Cofiño\n\nAna María Cofiño Kepfer (born 1955) is a Guatemalan researcher, anthropologist, editor, and historian. She is the founder and co-editor of the feminist magazine \"La Cuerda\" and the bookstore El Pensativo. She is a prominent activist in favor of women's rights, gender equality, and the defense of indigenous communities from expropriation by the state and foreign companies.\n\nAna Cofiño was born in a conservative and anti-communist Guatemalan family. She studied at a Catholic school for \"well-off\" girls, at which time she participated in the movement called CRATER, made up of young people who were involved in social programs as part of the church's renewal movement. Years later, she explained that her break with the Catholic Church was fundamental and a process. According to Cofiño:\nShe began to study at the Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala, and later moved to Mexico to study at the National School of Anthropology and History, where she made a critical study of the Guatemalan condition, of its history. She came into contact with Guatemalan exiles, among them writers such as and the feminist Alaíde Foppa. When she finished her degree, she moved to San Cristóbal de las Casas, Chiapas, to prepare her thesis in the Maya area, a trip which changed her life, she explains. She founded the bookstore Soluna there.\n\nIn 1987 she returned to Guatemala with the expectation that the Vinicio Cerezo government, in which there were many women working, would represent a transformation for the country. She opened the Pensativo Bookstore in Antigua, where she began to publish works by Guatemalan and Central American authors.\n\nCofiño graduated with an anthropology degree from the Universidad de San Carlos when she concluded research on the feelings of Kaqchikel women on the exhumation of San Juan Comalapa.\n\nIn 1998 she founded the monthly publication \"La Cuerda\", of which she was co-editor, backed by an association that aims to recover the prominence of women.\n\nIn 2012 she published, along with 17 other authors from \"La Cuerda\", the book \"Nosotras, las de la Historia. Mujeres en Guatemala (siglos XIX–XXI)\" (We, of History. Women in Guatemala (19th–20th Centuries), recounting the history of Guatemalan women from a women's perspective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4528889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4528889", "title": "Asa Briggs", "text": "Asa Briggs\n\nAsa Briggs, Baron Briggs (7 May 1921 – 15 March 2016) was an English historian. He was a leading specialist on the Victorian era, and the foremost historian of broadcasting in Britain. He was made a life peer in 1976.\n\nAsa Briggs was born in Keighley, West Riding of Yorkshire in 1921 to William Briggs, an engineer, and his wife Jane. He was educated at Keighley Boys' Grammar School and Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, graduating with a BA (first class) in 1941, and a BSc in Economics (first class) from the University of London External Programme, also in 1941.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1945 during the Second World War, Briggs served in the Intelligence Corps and worked at the British wartime codebreaking station, Bletchley Park. He was a member of \"the Watch\" in Hut 6, the section deciphering Enigma machine messages from the German Army and Luftwaffe. This posting had arisen because at college Briggs had played chess with Cambridge mathematician Howard Smith (who was to become the Director General of MI5 in 1979) and Smith had written to the head of Hut 6, Gordon Welchman, who was also a Cambridge mathematician, recommending Briggs to him.\n\nAfter the war, he was elected a Fellow of Worcester College, Oxford (1945–55), and was subsequently appointed University Reader in Recent Social and Economic History (1950–55). Whilst a young Fellow, Briggs proofread Winston Churchill's \"A History of the English-Speaking Peoples\". He was later Faculty Fellow of Nuffield College (1953–55) and a member of the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey, United States (1953–54).\n\nFrom 1955 until 1961 he was Professor of Modern History at Leeds University and between 1961 and 1976 he was Professor of History at Sussex University, while also serving as Dean of the School of Social Studies (1961–65), Pro Vice-Chancellor (1961–67) and Vice-Chancellor (1967–76). On 4 June 2008 the University of Sussex Arts A1 and A2 lecture theatres, designed by Basil Spence, were renamed in his honour.\n\nIn 1976 he returned to Oxford to become Provost of Worcester College, retiring from the post in 1991.\n\nHe was Chancellor of the Open University (1978–94) and in May 1979 was awarded an honorary degree as Doctor of the University. He had been an Honorary Fellow of Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, from 1968, of Worcester College, Oxford, from 1969, and of St Catharine's College, Cambridge, from 1977. He also held a visiting appointment at the Gannett Center for Media Studies at Columbia University in the late 1980s and again at the renamed Freedom Forum Media Studies Center at Columbia in 1995–96. Announced in the 1976 Birthday Honours, he was created a life peer as Baron Briggs, of Lewes in the County of East Sussex on 19 July 1976.\nBetween 1961 and 1995, Briggs wrote a five-volume text on the history of broadcasting in the UK from 1922 to 1974 — essentially, the history of the BBC, who commissioned the work. Briggs' other works ranged from an account of the period that Karl Marx spent in London to the corporate history of British retailer Marks and Spencer. In 1987, Lord Briggs was invited to be President of the Brontë Society, a literary society established in 1893 in Haworth, near Keighley, Yorkshire. He presided over the Society's centenary celebrations in 1993 and continued as President until he retired from the position in 1996. He was also President of the William Morris Society from 1978 to 1991 and President of the Victorian Society (UK) from 1986 until his death.\n\nHe died at home in Lewes at the age of 94 on 15 March 2016.\n\nHe married Susan Anne Banwell in 1955 and they had two sons and two daughters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47433", "title": "Atlas (architecture)", "text": "Atlas (architecture)\n\nIn European architectural sculpture, an atlas (also known as an atlant, or atlante or atlantid; plural atlantes) is a support sculpted in the form of a man, which may take the place of a column, a pier or a pilaster. The Roman term for such a sculptural support is a telamon (plural telamones or telamons).\n\nThe term \"atlantes\" is the Greek plural of the name Atlas—the Titan who was forced to hold the sky on his shoulders for eternity. The alternative term, \"telamones\", also is derived from a later mythological hero, Telamon, one of the Argonauts, who was the father of Ajax. \n\nThe caryatid is the female precursor of this architectural form in Greece, a woman standing in the place of each column or pillar. Caryatids are found at the treasuries at Delphi and the Erechtheion on the Acropolis at Athens for Athene. They usually are in an Ionic context and represented a ritual association with the goddesses worshiped within. The Atalante is typically life-size or larger; smaller similar figures in the decorative arts are called terms. The body of many Atalantes turns into a rectangular pillar or other architectural feature around the waist level, a feature borrowed from the term. The pose and expression of Alalantes very often show their effort to bear the heavy load of the building, which is rarely the case with terms and caryatids. The herma or herm is a classical boundary marker or wayside monument to a god which is usually a square pillar with only a carved head on top, about life-size, and male genitals at the appropriate mid-point. Figures that are rightly called Atalantes may sometimes be described as herms.\n\nAtlantes express extreme effort in their function, heads bent forward to support the weight of the structure above them across their shoulders, forearms often lifted to provide additional support, providing an architectural motif. Atlantes and caryatids were noted by the Roman late Republican architect Vitruvius, whose description of the structures, rather than surviving examples, transmitted the idea of atlantes to the Renaissance architectural vocabulary.\n\nNot only did the Caryatids precede them, but similar architectural figures already had been made in ancient Egypt out of monoliths. Atlantes originated in Greek Sicily and in Magna Graecia, southern Italy. The are fallen ones from the Early Classical Greek temple of Zeus, the \"Olympeion\", in Agrigento, Sicily. Atlantes, however, have played a more significant role in Mannerist and baroque architecture. \n\nDuring the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, many buildings were built with glorious atlantes that look much like the Greek ones. Their selection from the two proposed designs—the other design using Caryatids—for the entrance of the Hermitage Museum that was built for Tsar Nicholas I of Russia made atlantes become even more fashionable. The portico of this building has ten enormous atlantes, approximately three times life-size, carved from Serdobol granite, which were designed by Johann Halbig and executed by the sculptor, Alexander Terebenev.\n\nSimilar carved stone columns or pillars in the shape of fierce men at some sites of Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica are typically called Atlantean figures. These figures are considered to be \"massive statues of Toltec warriors\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8643043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8643043", "title": "Carl Grimberg", "text": "Carl Grimberg\n\nCarl Gustaf Grimberg (September 22, 1875 in Gothenburg, Sweden – June 11, 1941 in Djursholm) was a Swedish historian.\n\nHis parents were Joel Grimberg and Charlotta (née Andersson). In 1919 he married Eva Carlsdotter Sparre (1895–1982).\n\nGrimberg's most famous work is his history of Sweden, \"Svenska folkets underbara öden\" (1913-1924). In 1926 Grimberg began to publish his history of the world, \"Världshistoria\", but he did not finish it before his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "58675805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58675805", "title": "Chaophraya Thiphakorawong", "text": "Chaophraya Thiphakorawong\n\nChaophraya Thiphakorawong (born Kham Bunnag; 1 October 1813–1870) was a Thai aristocrat, government official, and scholar.\n\nKham Bunnag was born in 1813 into the powerful Bunnag family, a powerful Thai noble family of Persian ancestry. His father, Tish Bunnag, was a kinsman of the royal family who later served as regent for King Mongkut (Rama IV), while his brother Chuang Bunnag would go on to serve as regent for King Chulalongkorn (Rama V).\n\nKham Bunnag entered the service of King Nangklao (Rama III), as an official in the Harbour Department. After the death of Rama III, the Bunnag family played a major role in selecting his successor. Kham's strong support for Mongkut earned him a role as Minister of State in 1853, Minister of the Treasury in 1855, and the title of Thiphakorawong in 1865.\n\nAfter ill health led to his retirement from public life in 1867, Thipakorawong spent the remainder of his life writing on history and religion. In 1867, he wrote his most famous work, \"Nangsue Sadaeng Kitchanukit\" (\"A Book on Various Things\"). Thipakorawong was commissioned by Chulalongkorn to write the history of the first four reigns of the Chakri dynasty, which he completed before his death in 1870. Though the history was complete by 1870, the section on the reign of Rama III was not published until 1934, due to a controversial section detailing a powerful prince's homosexual inclinations. Thipakorawong's historical works were often edited, particularly by Prince Damrong, to remove items that were considered scandalous or critical of the early monarchs.\n\nThipakorawong's Nangsue Sadaeng Kitchanukit was a groundbreaking work, said to be both the first science textbook in Thai and the first Thai book to be printed without the assistance of Westerners. In this work, Thipakorawong argued against the literal truth of much traditional Buddhist cosmology (said to be contaminated by Brahmanism), while also attesting to the truth of Buddhist spiritual doctrines and the compatibility of modern science with Buddhism. He spent much of the book detailing how karma, reincarnation, and merit account for differences in social orders. While not necessarily derived from Mongkut's reforming views, it was clearly complementary to them.\n\nThe Nangsue Sadaeng Kitchanukit was translated into English by Henry Alabaster, an advisor to Chulalongkorn. Alabaster published his translation as the first part of his \"The Wheel of the Law\" in 1871. While generally regarded as a faithful translation, Alabaster's version omits many sections of Thipakorawong's work, including a defense of polygamy, and also includes his own commentary.\n"}
{"id": "29855174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29855174", "title": "Chris Gunness", "text": "Chris Gunness\n\nChristopher Robert Paul Gunness (born 1959) is the chief spokesperson for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA).\n\nGunness was born in 1959 in what was then the Crown Colony of Trinidad, part of the British West Indies. He was educated in England, initially at Ardingly College, before gaining a scholarship in 1979, to Oxford University. He was a contemporary of Ian Hislop at both institutions.\n\nHe joined the BBC as a graduate trainee in 1982. During his 23-year career in broadcasting, he covered all the following roles: producer, studio manager, reporter, correspondent and anchor.\n\nIn 2005, Gunness left the BBC to join the United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process (UNSCO), which was created following the signing of the Oslo Accords. He gained public profile as a member of a high level UN mission mandated by the UN to halt the Lebanon war in July 2006.\n\nIn 2007, he was appointed Spokesman and Director of Strategic Communications at UNRWA, a very high-profile spokesperson position within the United Nations system.\n\nIn 2014, during the war between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip, he was interviewed extensively.\n\nOn July 27, 2014, Gunness was interviewed by David Gregory on Meet the Press, where Gregory played a video on the screen showing what appeared to be a rocket being fired from a school in Gaza. Only the viewers could see the video and not Gunness, who was appearing via satellite from Tel Aviv. Gregory asked “the Israeli government has released video tape within the last hour, it was posted on YouTube. NBC News has not independently verified the Israeli’s claim. I realize you cannot see this video, but our audience can. And I'm going to describe it to you, that purports to show rockets being fired from a UN school. Is this accurate?”\n\nGunness, unable to see the video while being accused of complicity in the firing of rockets replied, “Look, to be fair to me, to bring me on a live program and expect me to comment live on air on pictures I haven't actually seen, I think anyone looking at this program would agree that that's really unfair. I mean, if I can see it, I'll happily comment on it. But can I make the point that we have said that all sides have to respect the inviolability of UN compounds. And that's both side. So if it is what you say it is, we would strongly condemn it. And we're a humanitarian organization. We're not an organization with an army. We have moral force. We have the force of international law. And we have the principles of humanitarianism to protect us. But that's it.”\n\nGregory then abruptly ended the interview, but towards the end of the program, he revisited the topic with a new statement in an attempt to reverse the perception of bias during the interview. He issued an “endnote to an earlier conversation about Gaza, we asked as you will recall, a UN spokesman about this video, which Israel claims, Israel claims showed rockets being fired by Hamas from a UN school in Gaza. This is shot by the Israeli government, and that's their claim. The UN has reviewed it, tells us that they have confirmed in their view the video does not show rockets being fired from a UN administrative school in Gaza.”\n\nGregory was widely criticized for his interview tactics during the show.\n\nOn July 30, 2014, immediately following a live TV interview from his office in Jerusalem with al Jazeera discussing the killing of children who died from Israeli shelling while sleeping in the relative safety of a UN school in Gaza, Gunness broke down in tears. The video of the UN spokesperson in tears immediately went viral and was written about extensively.\n"}
{"id": "14969820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14969820", "title": "Christian Lupus", "text": "Christian Lupus\n\nChristian Lupus (23 July 1612 – 10 July 1681) was a historian.\n\nLupus was born at Ypres (Flanders). He joined the Augustinian Order at the age of fifteen, and on the completion of his studies, was appointed lecturer in theology, to the younger members of the order in Cologne. While occupying this position he won the confidence of the nuncio at Cologne, Fabio Chigi (later Pope Alexander VII). In 1640 Lupus was appointed professor of theology at the University of Leuven (French: \"Louvain\"), but, owing to his zeal for the teaching of St. Augustine, was suspected of Jansenism. The nuncio at Brussels accused him of it, and would not permit the University of Leuven to confer a doctor's degree upon him; only after the pope's mediation was it given to him. When the accusation was renewed, Alexander VII called him to Rome, where for the next five years he devoted himself under papal protection to the study of ecclesiastical history.\n\nHe returned to Leuven in 1660, and was elected provincial of the province; in 1667 he returned to Rome, accompanied by several professors of the theological faculty of Leuven. Innocent XI condemned sixty-five of the propositions denounced by him. On his return to Leuven he was appointed Regius Professor of theology, the first time a religious had ever held this office. He remained there until his death. His writings were published in thirteen parts, the first twelve in Venice, 1724–1729, in six folio volumes, the thirteenth in Bologna, in 1742. The first six under the title \"Synodorum generalium et provincialium statuta et canones cum notis et historicis dissertationibus\" (1665–1673) contain a detailed history of the councils, with many dissertations. The seventh part contains: \"Ad Ephesinum concilium variorum patrum epistolas, item commonitorium Coelestini papae, titulos decretorum Hilarii papae\" (Louvain, 1682). He also wrote critical replies to Pasquier Quesnel, Nicolas Boileau-Despréaux, and Gerbais. His writings are mostly collections of historical materials, usually little elaborated by him.\n\n"}
{"id": "57021149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57021149", "title": "Chronological summary of the 2018 Commonwealth Games", "text": "Chronological summary of the 2018 Commonwealth Games\n\nThe 2018 Commonwealth Games (officially the XXI Commonwealth Games) are being held in Gold Coast, Australia, from 4 to 15 April 2018.\n\nThis page contains a chronological summary of major events from the Games.\n"}
{"id": "903846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903846", "title": "Chronology of Jesus", "text": "Chronology of Jesus\n\nA chronology of Jesus aims to establish a timeline for the events of the life of Jesus. Scholars have correlated Jewish and Greco-Roman documents and astronomical calendars with the New Testament accounts to estimate dates for the major events in Jesus's life. \n\nTwo main approaches have been used to estimate the year of the birth of Jesus: one based on the accounts in the Gospels of his birth with reference to King Herod's reign, and the other by subtracting his stated age of \"about 30 years\" when he began preaching. Most scholars, on this basis, assume a date of birth between 6 and 4 BC.\n\nThree details have been used to estimate the year when Jesus began preaching: a mention of his age of \"about 30 years\" during \"the fifteenth year\" of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, another relating to the date of the building of the Temple in Jerusalem, and yet another concerning the death of John the Baptist. Hence, scholars estimate that Jesus began preaching and gathering followers around AD 28–29. According to the three synoptic gospels Jesus continued preaching for at least one year, and according to John the Evangelist for three years.\n\nFive methods have been used to estimate the date of the crucifixion of Jesus. One uses non-Christian sources such as Josephus and Tacitus. Another works backwards from the historically well-established trial of the Apostle Paul by the Roman proconsul Gallio in Corinth in AD 51/52 to estimate the date of Paul's conversion. Both methods result in AD 36 as an upper bound to the crucifixion. Thus, scholars generally agree that Jesus was crucified between AD 30 and AD 36. Isaac Newton's astronomical method calculates those ancient Passovers (always defined by a full moon) which are preceded by a Friday, as specified by all four Gospels; this leaves two potential crucifixion dates, 7 April AD 30 and 3 April AD 33. In the lunar eclipse method, the Apostle Peter's statement that the moon turned to blood at the crucifixion () is taken to refer to the lunar eclipse of 3 April AD 33; although astronomers are discussing whether the eclipse was visible as far west as Jerusalem. Recent astronomical research uses the contrast between the synoptic date of Jesus' last Passover on the one hand with John's date of the subsequent \"Jewish Passover\" on the other hand, to propose Jesus' Last Supper to have been on Wednesday, 1 April AD 33 and the crucifixion on Friday 3 April AD 33.\n\nThe Christian gospels do not claim to provide an exhaustive list of the events in the life of Jesus They were written as theological documents in the context of early Christianity rather than historical chronicles, and their authors showed little interest in an absolute chronology of Jesus or in synchronizing the episodes of his life with the secular history of the age. One indication that the gospels are theological documents rather than historical chronicles is that they devote about one-third of their text to just seven days, namely the last week of the life of Jesus in Jerusalem, also known as the Passion of Christ.\n\nNevertheless, the gospels provide some details regarding events which can be clearly dated, so one can establish date ranges regarding major events in Jesus' life by comparison with independent sources. A number of historical non-Christian documents, such as Jewish and Greco-Roman sources, have been used in historical analyses of the chronology of Jesus. Virtually all modern historians agree that Jesus existed, and regard his baptism and his crucifixion as historical events, and assume that approximate ranges for these events can be estimated.\n\nUsing these methods, most scholars assume a date of birth between 6 and 4 BC, and that Jesus' preaching began around AD 27–29 and lasted one to three years. They calculate the death of Jesus as having taken place between AD 30 and 36.\n\nThe date of birth of Jesus of Nazareth is not stated in the gospels or in any secular text, but most scholars assume a date of birth between 6 BC and 4 BC, but nobody knows the exact date. Two main methods have been used to estimate the year of the birth of Jesus: one based on the accounts of his birth in the gospels with reference to King Herod's reign, and another based on subtracting his stated age of \"about 30 years\" from the time when he began preaching () in \"the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar\" (): the two methods indicate a date of birth before Herod's death in 4 BC, and a date of birth around 2 BC, respectively.\n\nThe two nativity accounts of Jesus in the Gospel of Matthew and Gospel of Luke differ substantially from each other, and are considered to have been written independently. However, some consistent elements are evidently derived from a common early tradition:\n\nThus both Luke and Matthew independently associate Jesus' birth with the reign of Herod the Great. Matthew furthermore implies that Jesus was up to two years old when Herod reportedly ordered the Massacre of the Innocents, that is, the murder of all boys in Bethlehem up to the age of two (Matt 2:16). Most scholars agree that Herod died in 4 BC, although some have argued for 1 BC. In conclusion, most scholars accept a birth year for Jesus between 6 and 4 BC.\n\nAnother approach to estimating Jesus' year of birth is based on the statement in that he was \"about 30 years of age\" when starting his ministry. Jesus began to preach after being baptised by John the Baptist, and based on Luke’s gospel John only began baptising people in \"the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar\" (), which scholars estimate to have been in AD 28–29. Subtracting 30 years, it appears that Jesus was born in 1-2 BC. However, if the phrase \"about 30\" is interpreted to mean 32 years old, this could fit a date of birth just within the reign of Herod, who died in 4 BC.\n\nThis date is independently confirmed by John's reference in to the Temple being in its 46th year of construction during Passover when Jesus began his ministry, which corresponds to around 28–29 AD according to scholarly estimates.\n\nThe Gospel of John 8:57 mentions in passing an upper limit of 50 for Jesus' age when preaching: \"Then the Jews said to Him: You are not even fifty years old, and you claim to have seen Abraham?\" Fifty years is a round number which emphasises the discrepancy to Jesus's claim he had existed before Abraham, that is, for more than a thousand years.\n\nSome commentators have attempted to establish the date of birth by identifying the Star of Bethlehem with some known astronomical or astrological phenomenon. For example, astronomer Michael Molnar proposed 17 April 6 BC as the likely date of the Nativity, since that date corresponded to the heliacal rising and lunar occultation of Jupiter, while it was momentarily stationary in the constellation of Aries. According to Molnar, to knowledgeable astrologers of this time, this highly unusual combination of events would have indicated that a regal personage would be (or had been) born in Judea. Other research points to a 1991 report from the Royal Astronomical Society, which mentions that Chinese astronomers noted a \"comet\" that lasted 70 days in the Capricorn region of the sky, in March of 5 BC. Authors Dugard and O'Reilly consider this event as the likely Star of Bethlehem. However, there are many possible phenomena and none seems to match the Gospel account exactly.\n\nOne method for the estimation of the date of the beginning of the ministry of Jesus is based on the Gospel of Luke's specific statement in about the ministry of John the Baptist which preceded that of Jesus:\nNow in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene, in the highpriesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.\nThe reign of Tiberius Caesar began on the death of his predecessor Augustus Caesar in September AD 14, implying that the ministry of John the Baptist began in late AD 28 or early AD 29. Riesner's alternative suggestion is that John the Baptist began his ministry in AD 26 or 27, because Tiberius ruled together with Augustus for two years before becoming the sole ruler. If so, the fifteenth year of Tiberius' reign would be counted from AD 12. Riesner's suggestion is however considered less likely, as all the major Roman historians who calculate the years of Tiberius' rule - namely Tacitus, Suetonius and Cassius Dio - count from AD 14 - the year of Augustus' death. In addition, coin evidence shows that Tiberius started to reign in AD 14.\n\nThe New Testament presents John the Baptist as the precursor to Jesus and the Baptism of Jesus as marking the beginning of Jesus' ministry. In his sermon in , delivered in the house of Cornelius the centurion, Apostle Peter refers to what had happened \"throughout all Judaea, beginning from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached\" and that Jesus had then gone about \"doing good\". Jesus' baptism account is followed directly by his 40 day fast and ordeal.\n\nAnother method for estimating the start of the ministry of Jesus without reliance on the Synoptic gospels is to relate the account in the Gospel of John about the visit of Jesus to Herod's Temple in Jerusalem with historical data about the construction of the Temple.\n\nHerod's Temple in Jerusalem was an extensive and long term construction on the Temple Mount, which was never fully completed even by the time it was destroyed by the Romans in AD 70. Having built entire cities such as Caesarea Maritima, Herod saw the construction of the Temple as a key, colossal monument. The dedication of the initial temple (sometimes called the inner Temple) followed a 17 or 18 month construction period, just after the visit of Augustus to Syria.\n\nJosephus () states that the temple's reconstruction was started by Herod in the 18th year of his reign. But there is some uncertainty about how Josephus referred to and computed dates, which event marked the start of Herod's reign, and whether the initial date should refer to the inner Temple, or the subsequent construction. Hence various scholars arrive at slightly different dates for the exact date of the start of the Temple construction, varying by a few years in their final estimation of the date of the Temple visit. Given that it took 46 years of construction, the best scholarly estimate for when Jesus preached is around the year AD 29.\n\nBoth the gospels and first-century historian Flavius Josephus, in his work Antiquities of the Jews, refer to Herod Antipas killing John the Baptist, and to the marriage of Herod and Herodias, establishing two key connections between Josephus and the biblical episodes. Josephus refers to the imprisonment and execution of John the Baptist by Herod Antipas and that Herodias left her husband to marry Herod Antipas, in defiance of Jewish law.\n\nJosephus and the gospels differ, however, on the details and motives, e.g. whether the execution was a consequence of the marriage of Herod Antipas and Herodias (as indicated in , ), or a pre-emptive measure by Herod which possibly took place before the marriage to quell a possible uprising based on the remarks of John, as Josephus suggests in .\n\nThe exact year of the marriage of Herod Antipas and Herodias is subject to debate among scholars. While some scholars place the year of the marriage in the range AD 27-31, others have approximated a date as late as AD 35, although such a late date has much less support. In his analysis of Herod's life, Harold Hoehner estimates that John the Baptist's imprisonment probably occurred around AD 30-31. The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia estimates the death of the Baptist to have occurred about AD 31-32.\n\nJosephus stated () that the AD 36 defeat of Herod Antipas in the conflicts with Aretas IV of Nabatea was widely considered by the Jews of the time as misfortune brought about by Herod's unjust execution of John the Baptist. Given that John the Baptist was executed before the defeat of Herod by Aretas, and based on the scholarly estimates for the approximate date of the marriage of Herod Antipas and Herodias, the last part of the ministry of John the Baptist and hence parts of the ministry of Jesus fall within the historical time span of AD 28-35, with the later year 35 having the least support among scholars.\n\nAll four canonical gospels state that Jesus was crucified during the prefecture of Pontius Pilate, the Roman governor of Roman Judaea.\n\nIn the \"Antiquities of the Jews\" (written about AD 93), Josephus states () that Jesus was crucified on the orders of Pilate. Most scholars agree that while this reference includes some later Christian interpolations, it originally included a reference to the execution of Jesus under Pilate.\n\nIn the second century the Roman historian Tacitus in \"The Annals\" (\"c.\" AD 116), described the persecution of Christians by Nero and stated () that Jesus had been executed on the orders of Pilate during the reign of Tiberius (Emperor from 18 September AD 14 – 16 March AD 37).\n\nAccording to Flavius Josephus, Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea from AD 26 until he was replaced by Marcellus, either in AD 36 or AD 37, establishing the date of the death of Jesus between AD 26 and AD 37.\n\nIn the Gospel of Luke, while Jesus is in Pilate's court, Pilate realizes that Jesus is a Galilean and thus is under the jurisdiction of Herod Antipas. Given that Herod was in Jerusalem at that time, Pilate decided to send Jesus to Herod to be tried.\n\nThis episode is described only in the Gospel of Luke (). While some scholars have questioned the authenticity of this episode, given that it is unique to the Gospel of Luke, the International Standard Bible Encyclopedia states that it fits well with the theme of the gospel.\n\nHerod Antipas, a son of Herod the Great, was born before 20 BC and was exiled in the summer of AD 39 following a lengthy intrigue involving Caligula and Agrippa I, the grandson of his father. This episode indicates that Jesus' death took place before AD 39.\n\nAnother approach to estimating an upper bound for the year of death of Jesus is the estimation of the date of conversion of Paul the Apostle which the New Testament accounts place some time after the death of Jesus. Paul's conversion is discussed in both the Letters of Paul and in the Acts of the Apostles.\n\nIn the First Epistle to the Corinthians (), Paul refers to his conversion. The Acts of the Apostles includes three separate references to his conversion experience, in , and .\n\nEstimating the year of Paul's conversion relies on working backwards from his trial before Junius Gallio in Achaea Greece () around AD 51–52, a date derived from the discovery and publication, in 1905, of four stone fragments as part of the Delphi Inscriptions, at Delphi across the Gulf from Corinth. The inscription preserves a letter from Claudius concerning Gallio dated during the 26th acclamation of Claudius, sometime between January 51 and August 52.\n\nOn this basis, most historians estimate that Gallio (brother of Seneca the Younger) became proconsul between the spring of AD 51 and the summer of AD 52, and that his position ended no later than AD 53. The trial of Paul is generally assumed to be in the earlier part of Gallio's tenure, based on the reference () to his meeting in Corinth with Priscilla and Aquila, who had been recently expelled from Rome based on Emperor Claudius' expulsion of Jews from Rome, which is dated to AD 49–50.\n\nAccording to the New Testament, Paul spent eighteen months in Corinth, approximately seventeen years after his conversion. states that Paul went back to Jerusalem fourteen years after his conversion, and various missions (at times with Barnabas) such as those in and appear in the Book of Acts. The generally accepted scholarly estimate for the date of conversion of Paul is AD 33–36, placing the death of Jesus before this date range.\n\nAll four Gospels agree to within about a day that the crucifixion was at the time of Passover, and all four Gospels agree that Jesus died a few hours before the commencement of the Jewish Sabbath, i.e. he died before nightfall on a Friday (Matt 27:62, 28:1, Mark 15:42, Luke 23:54, John 19:31,42). In the official festival calendar of Judaea, as used by the priests of the temple, Passover time was specified precisely. The slaughtering of the lambs for Passover occurred between 3pm and 5pm on the 14th day of the Jewish month Nisan (corresponding to March/April in our calendar). The Passover meal commenced at moonrise (necessarily a full moon) that evening, i.e., at the start of 15 Nisan (the Jewish day running from evening to evening) (Leviticus 23 v. 5; Numbers 28 v. 16). There is an apparent discrepancy of one day in the Gospel accounts of the crucifixion which has been the subject of considerable debate. In John's Gospel, it is stated that the day of Jesus' trial and execution was the day before Passover (John 18 v. 28 and 19 v. 14), Hence John places the crucifixion on 14 Nisan. Likewise the Apostle Paul, in his First Epistle to the Corinthians, implies Jesus died on a 14 Nisan (\"sacrificed as a Passover lamb\", 1 Cor 5:7), and was resurrected on the Jewish festival of the first fruits, i.e. on a 16 Nisan (1 Cor 15:20). The correct interpretation of the Synoptics is less clear. Thus some scholars believe that all 4 Gospels place the crucifixion on Friday, 14 Nisan, others believe that according to the Synoptics it occurred on Friday, 15 Nisan. The problem that then has to be solved is that of determining in which of the years of the reign of Pontius Pilate (AD 26–36) the 14th and 15th Nisan fell on a Friday.\n\nIn 1733, Isaac Newton considered only the range AD 31–36 and calculated that the Friday requirement is met only on Friday 3 April AD 33, and 23 April AD 34. The latter date can only have fallen on a Friday if an exceptional leap month had been introduced that year, but this was favoured by Newton. In the twentieth century, the standard view became that of J. K. Fotheringham, who in 1910 suggested 3 April AD 33 on the basis of its coincidence with a lunar eclipse. In the 1990s Bradley E. Schaefer and J. P. Pratt, following a similar method, arrived at the same date. Also according to Humphreys and Waddington, the lunar Jewish calendar leaves only two plausible dates within the reign of Pontius Pilate for Jesus' death, and both of these would have been a 14 Nisan as specified in the Gospel of John: Friday 7 April AD 30, and Friday 3 April AD 33.\n\nA more refined calculation takes into account that the Jewish calendar was based not on astronomical calculation but on observation, following criticism that it is possible to establish the phase of the moon on a particular day two thousand years ago but not whether it was obscured by clouds or haze. Including the possibility of a cloudy sky obscuring the moon, and assuming that the Jewish authorities would be aware that lunar months can only be either 29 or 30 days long (the time from one new moon to the next is 29.53 days), then the refined calculation states that the Friday requirement might also have been met, during Pontius Pilate's term of office, on 11 April AD 27. Another potential date arises if the Jewish authorities happened to add an irregular lunar leap month to compensate for a meteorologically delayed harvest season: this would yield one additional possibility during Pilate's time, which is Newton's favoured date of 23 April AD 34. Colin Humphreys calculates but rejects these AD 27 and AD 34 dates on the basis that the former is much too early to be compatible with Luke 3:1–2, and spring AD 34 is probably too late to be compatible with Paul's timeline, confirming Friday 7 April AD 30, and Friday 3 April AD 33 as the two feasible crucifixion dates.\n\nA lunar eclipse is potentially alluded to in (\"The sun shall be turned into darkness, And the moon into blood, Before the day of the Lord come\"), as pointed out by physicist Colin Humphreys and astronomer Graeme Waddington. There was in fact a lunar eclipse on 3 April AD 33, a date which coincides with one of Newton's astronomically possible crucifixion dates (see above). Humphreys and Waddington have calculated that in ancient Jerusalem this eclipse would have been visible at moonrise at 6.20pm as a 20% partial eclipse (a full moon with a potentially red \"bite\" missing at the top left of the moon's disc). They propose that a large proportion of the Jewish population would have witnessed this eclipse as they would have been waiting for sunset in the west and immediately afterwards the rise of the anticipated full moon in the east as the prescribed signal to start their household Passover meals. Humphreys and Waddington therefore suggest a scenario where Jesus was crucified and died at 3pm on 3 April AD 33, followed by a red partial lunar eclipse at moonrise at 6.20pm observed by the Jewish population, and that Peter recalls this event when preaching the resurrection to the Jews (). Astronomer Bradley Schaefer agrees with the eclipse date but disputes that the eclipsed moon would have been visible by the time the moon had risen in Jerusalem.\n\nA potentially related issue involves the reference in the Synoptic Gospels to a three-hour period of darkness over the whole land on the day of the crucifixion (according to Luke 23:45 τοῦ ἡλίου ἐκλιπόντος – the sun was darkened). Although some scholars view this as a literary device common among ancient writers rather than a description of an actual event, other writers have attempted to identify a meteorological event or a datable astronomical phenomenon which this could have referred to. It could not have been a solar eclipse, since this could not take place during the crucifixion at Passover, and in any case solar eclipses take minutes, not hours. In 1983, astronomers Humphreys and Waddington noted that the reference to a solar eclipse is missing in some versions of Luke and argued that the solar eclipse was a later faulty scribal amendment of what was actually the \"lunar\" eclipse of AD 33. This is a claim which historian David Henige describes as 'undefended' and 'indefensible'. Humphreys and a number of scholars have alternatively argued for the sun's darkening to have been caused by a \"khamsin\", i.e. a sand storm, which can occur between mid-March and May in the Middle East and which does typically last for several hours.\n\nIn a review of Humphreys' book, theologian William R Telford points out that the non-astronomical parts of his lunar eclipse argument are based on the assumption that the chronologies described in the New Testament are historical and based on eyewitness testimony, accepting uncritically statements such as the \"three different Passovers in John\" and Matthew's statement that Jesus died at the ninth hour. He also alleges that Humphreys uses two very dubious sources, namely Pilate's alleged letter to Tiberius and the writings of the fifth-century Bishop Cyril of Alexandria, which Humphreys however classifies as forgery or contemporary interpretation indicative of a tradition at the time.\n\nIn the crucifixion narrative, the synoptic gospels stress that Jesus celebrated a Passover meal (Mark 14:12ff, Luke 22:15) \"before\" his crucifixion, which contrasts sharply with the independent gospel of John who is explicit that the official \"Jewish\" Passover (John 11:55) started at nightfall \"after\" Jesus' death. In his 2011 book, Colin Humphreys proposes a resolution to this apparent discrepancy by positing that Jesus' \"synoptic\" Passover meal in fact took place two days before John's \"Jewish\" Passover because the former is calculated by the putative original Jewish lunar calendar (itself based on the Egyptian liturgical lunar calendar putatively introduced to the Israelites by Moses in the 13th century BC, and still used today by the Samaritans). The official \"Jewish\" Passover in contrast was determined by a Jewish calendar reckoning which had been modified during the Babylonian exile in the 6th century BC. This modified Jewish calendar is in use among most Jews today. One basic difference lies in the determination of the first day of the new month: while the Samaritans use the calculated (because by definition invisible) new moon, mainstream Jews use the first observation of the thin crescent of the waxing moon which is on average 30 hours later. The other basic difference lies in the fact that the Samaritan calendar uses a sunrise-to-sunrise day, while the official Jewish calendar uses a sunset-to-sunset day. Due to these differences, the Samaritan Passover is normally one day earlier than the Jewish Passover (and in some years two or more days earlier). The crucifixion year of Jesus can then be calculated by asking the question in which of the two astronomically possible years of AD 30 and AD 33 is there a time gap between the last supper and the crucifixion which is compatible with the gospel timeline of Jesus' last 6 days. The astronomical calculations show that a hypothetical AD 30 date would require an incompatible Monday Last Supper, while AD 33 offers a compatible Last Supper on Wednesday, 1 April AD 33, followed by a compatible crucifixion on Friday, 3 April AD 33.\n\nGiven these assumptions he argues that the calculated date of Wednesday 1 April AD 33 for the Last Supper allows all four gospel accounts to be astronomically correct, with Jesus celebrating Passover two days before his death according to the original Mosaic calendar, and the Jewish authorities celebrating Passover just after the crucifixion, using the modified Babylonian calendar. In contrast, the Christian church tradition of celebrating the Last Supper on Maundy Thursday would be an anachronism. The calculated chronology incidentally supports John's narrative that Jesus died at the same hour (Friday 3pm) on 3 April AD 33 that the Passover lambs were slaughtered.\n\nIn a review of Humphreys' book, theologian William R Telford counters that the separate day schema of the Gospel's Holy Week \"is an artificial as well as an inconsistent construction\". As Telford had pointed out in his own book in 1980, \"the initial three-day structure found in [Mark 11] is occasioned by the purely redactional linkage of the extraneous fig-tree story with the triumphal entry and cleansing of the temple traditions, and is not a chronology upon which one can base any historical reconstructions.\"\n\nThe estimation of the hour of the death of Jesus based on the New Testament accounts has been the subject of debate among scholars for centuries, since there was perceived to be a clear difference between the accounts in the Synoptic Gospels and that in the Gospel of John. Also, some scholars have argued that it is unlikely that the many events of the Passion could have taken place in the span from midnight to about 9 o'clock in the morning. The consensus of modern scholarship agrees with the four Gospels that the New Testament accounts represent a crucifixion occurring on a Friday, although a Wednesday crucifixion has also been proposed.\n\nThe debate can be summarised as follows. In the Synoptic account, the Last Supper takes place on the first night of Passover, defined in the Torah as occurring after daylight on 14 of Nisan, and the crucifixion is on 15 Nisan. However, in the Gospel of John the trial of Jesus takes place before the Passover meal and the sentencing takes place on the day of Preparation, before Passover. John's account places the crucifixion on 14 Nisan, since the law mandated the lamb had to be sacrificed between 3:00 pm and 5:00 pm and eaten before midnight on that day. This understanding fits well with Old Testament typology, in which Jesus entered Jerusalem to identify himself as the Paschal lamb on Nisan 10 was crucified and died at 3:00 in the afternoon of Nisan 14, at the same time the High Priest would have sacrificed the Paschal lamb, and rose before dawn the morning of Nisan 16, as a type of offering of the First Fruits. It is problematic to reconcile the chronology presented by John with the Synoptic tradition that the Last Supper was a Passover meal. Some scholars have presented arguments to reconcile the accounts, although Raymond E. Brown, reviewing these, concluded that they can not be easily reconciled. One involves the suggestion that for Jesus and his disciples, the Passover could have begun at dawn Thursday, while for traditional Jews it would not have begun until dusk that same day. Another is that John followed the Roman practice of calculating the new day beginning at midnight, rather than the Jewish reckoning. However, this Roman practice was used only for dating contracts and leases. D. A. Carson argues that 'preparation of the Passover' could mean any day of the Passover week. Some have argued that the modern precision of marking the time of day should not be read back into the gospel accounts, written at a time when no standardization of timepieces, or exact recording of hours and minutes was available. Andreas Köstenberger argues that in the first century time was often estimated to the closest three-hour mark, and that the intention of the author of the Mark Gospel was to provide the setting for the three hours of darkness while the Gospel of John seeks to stress the length of the proceedings, starting in the 'early morning'\" William Barclay has argued that the portrayal of the death of Jesus in the John Gospel is a literary construct, presenting the crucifixion as taking place at the time on the day of Passover when the sacrificial lamb would be killed, and thus portraying Jesus as the Lamb of God.\n\nColin Humphreys' widely publicised \"double passover\" astronomical analysis, published in 2011 and outlined above, places the hour of death of Jesus at 3pm on 3 April AD 33 and claims to reconcile the Gospel accounts for the \"six days\" leading up to the crucifixion. His solution is that the synoptic gospels and John's gospel use two distinct calendars (the official Jewish lunar calendar, and what is today the Samaritan lunar calendar, the latter used in Jesus' day also by the Essenes of Qumran and the Zealots). Humphrey's proposal was preceded in 1957 by the work of Annie Jaubert who suggested that Jesus held his Last Supper at Passover time according to the Qumran \"solar\" calendar. Humphreys rejects Jaubert's conclusion by demonstrating that the Qumran solar reckoning would always place Jesus' Last Supper \"after\" the Jewish Passover, in contradiction to all four gospels. Instead, Humphreys points out that the Essene community at Qumran additionally used a lunar calendar, itself evidently based on the Egyptian liturgical lunar calendar. Humphreys suggests that the reason why his two-calendar solution had not been discovered earlier is (a) widespread scholarly ignorance of the existence of the Egyptian liturgical lunar calendar (used alongside the well-known Egyptian administrative solar calendar, and presumably the basis for the 13th-century BC Jewish lunar calendar), and (b) the fact that the modern surviving small community of Samaritans did not reveal the calculations underlying their lunar calendar (preserving the Egyptian reckoning) to outsiders until the 1960s.\n\nIn a review of Humphreys' book, theologian William R Telford points out that the non-astronomical parts of his argument are based on the assumption that the chronologies described in the New Testament are historical and based on eyewitness testimony. In doing so, Telford says, Humphreys has built an argument upon unsound premises which \"does violence to the nature of the biblical texts, whose mixture of fact and fiction, tradition and redaction, history and myth all make the rigid application of the scientific tool of astronomy to their putative data a misconstrued enterprise.\"\n\nOther estimates of the chronology of Jesus have been proposed over the centuries, e.g. Maximus the Confessor, Eusebius, and Cassiodorus asserted that the death of Jesus occurred in AD 31. The 3rd/4th century Roman historian Lactantius states that Jesus was crucified on a particular day in AD 29, but that did not correspond to a full moon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11358179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11358179", "title": "Chōkan", "text": "Chōkan\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3446432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3446432", "title": "Container Revolution", "text": "Container Revolution\n\nThe Container Revolution is the introduction of pottery into the Eastern Woodlands of North America during the Archaic period. As these societies became more sedentary, they were able to manufacture and use vessels that would have broken during transportation. Pots allowed for more efficient processing of wild seeds, which created less work for people when the pots were made waterproof. More-efficient seed collection systems and the deliberate manipulation of the native plants, in turn led to the domestication of several plant species. This is just one of many cultural developments that began during this time.\n"}
{"id": "21815217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21815217", "title": "Cyril Edel Leonoff", "text": "Cyril Edel Leonoff\n\nCyril Edel Leonoff (February 22, 1925 – April 7, 2016) was a Canadian geotechnical engineer, historian, and author. He was the founding president of the Jewish Historical Society of British Columbia.\n\nCyril Leonoff was born to Jewish parents William Leonoff and Rose Leonoff (née Brotman) in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. His grandparents on both sides of his family came to Canada from Eastern Europe, the Leonoffs from Nicolaiov, Russia and the Brotmans from the Polish town Bialykammin in Galicia. The Brotmans were among the first homestead families to settle in the farming colony of Wapella, Saskatchewan.\n\nLeonoff attended schools in the North End of Winnipeg, where many of the students were Jewish. His Jewish education, however, was provided mostly by a private tutor. During his second year of classes at the University of Manitoba, he joined the Canadian Armed Forces and was stationed in Kingston, Ontario in the Signal Corps. Near the end of World War II in Europe, he was posted to the Signals Research establishment in Ottawa. He then returned to the University of Manitoba where he completed a Bachelor's degree in civil engineering. During his studies, he met his future wife, Faye Matlin (1927-2011). Together they graduated in 1949, married on the eve of their graduation, and traveled to New Westminster, British Columbia, where Cyril worked for the Rivers & Harbours Branch of the Public Works Department.\n\nThe couple relocated briefly to Seattle where Leonoff completed his post-graduate education in geotechnical engineering at the University of Washington. In 1952, they returned to Vancouver, where Leonoff joined the one-year-old engineering firm of Ripley and Associates. Together with Charles F. Ripley and Earle J. Klohn, Leonoff co-founded Ripley, Klohn & Leonoff, Ltd., which grew nationally in the 1950s and 1960s, and internationally in the 1970s, to become Klohn Leonoff, Ltd. Leonoff was one of the earliest pioneer practitioners in British Columbia of soil mechanics and foundation engineering, a field known today as geotechnical engineering.\n\nThroughout his thirty-six year engineering career, Leonoff made significant contributions to the profession, participated in engineering societies, and authored many technical papers. In 2000, he received the Vancouver Geotechnical Society Award for significant contributions to the local practice of geotechnical engineering and was inducted as a Fellow of the Engineering Institute of Canada.\n\nIn 1968, Leonoff met Eli Barish, one of three brothers who had grown up on the Wapella Farm Settlement where Leonoff's family had also originated. At a community event, Barish noticed Leonoff's daughter and commented \"She looks like my old girlfriend on the farm... she looks like Rose Brotman\", Leonoff's mother. Wanting to know more about this history, and realizing that there was no documentation of it, Leonoff began interviewing the Barish brothers and other alumni of the Jewish farm settlements throughout the Canadian prairies. The following summer he joined the Barish brothers on a visit to Wapella, where he took many photos and interviewed more aging farmers. This research resulted in Leonoff's first book, \"Wapella Farm Settlement: The First Successful Jewish Farm Settlement in Canada\".\n\nThat same year, Leonoff was approached by Abe Arnold, then Executive Director of the Winnipeg chapter of Canadian Jewish Congress, and former editor of the Vancouver-based community newspaper, \"The Jewish Western Bulletin\". A long-time history buff, Arnold was working to establish a Canadian Jewish Historical Society and a network of regional Jewish historical societies. He encouraged Leonoff to lead the BC society. Co-sponsored by CJC and the National Council of Jewish Women, a meeting was held on November 26, 1970 to establish the Jewish Historical Society of British Columbia. Leonoff was elected president of the new society.\n\nThe Historical Society's oral history program expanded rapidly with the involvement of new volunteers drawn largely from the ranks of the National Council of Jewish Women. These interviews led to Leonoff's next book, \"Pioneers, Pedlars, and Prayershawls: The Jewish Communities in British Columbia and the Yukon\", published in 1978.\n\nIn April 1971, a notice appeared in the \"Jewish Western Bulletin\", alerting the community to proposed renovations planned for the Jewish section of Mountain View Cemetery. Consecrated in 1892, this section of Mountain View Cemetery is the final resting place of many of the early pioneers of the Vancouver Jewish community, including Zebulon Franks, Simon and Samuel Petersky, Solomon Weaver, and Samuel, Rosina, and Maurice Gintzburger. In response to the growing community that now numbered over 600 families, the new Schara Tzedeck Cemetery was consecrated in New Westminster on November 3, 1929. Following the opening of this new cemetery, the Jewish section of Mountain View fell out of use and by 1971 was largely forgotten by the community.\n\nIn an effort to reduce the cost of maintaining the site, the committee responsible proposed laying the gravestones flat to allow a motorized lawnmower to pass through more easily. The Jewish Historical Society, still in its infancy, rallied in opposition to this plan and submitted a letter, penned by Leonoff, expressing these concerns. It was published in the \"Jewish Western Bulletin\" on April 21, 1971. \"We are seriously concerned with the proposal to modify the monuments by laying them flush with the ground, as is the present vogue,\" Leonoff wrote. \"We consider that not only will this disfigure the individual monuments but will also destroy the traditional character of the cemetery.\" Leonoff and his colleague Julius Shore were invited to a site visit with the Cemetery Board and Mountain View staff, with the result that the headstones remained untouched. A comprehensive restoration effort was initiated years later, in February 2013, and completed in May 2015.\n\n For the ensuing 45 years, Leonoff remained actively involved in the work of the Jewish Historical Society, writing frequent articles and acquiring new material for the archives. A passionate hobby photographer, Leonoff sought out the collections of three major Jewish BC photographers: Leonard Frank, Otto Landauer, and Fred Schiffer, as well as the vast photographic collection of pioneer dentist Irving Snider. Together, these collections number over 300,000 items documenting vast portions of the history of BC, including the logging trade in the early 20th Century and the post-war construction of Vancouver. They have served as source material for numerous exhibits produced by the Jewish Museum and Archives of BC, the successor organization to the Jewish Historical Society.\n\nLeonoff documented the lives and work of Leonard Frank and Otto Landauer in a pair of books, \"An Enterprising Life: Leonard Frank Photographs, 1895-1944\", and \"Bridges of Light: Otto Landauer of Leonard Frank Photographs, 1945-1980\". The first of this pair was widely acclaimed, was a finalist for the B.C. Book Prize, and won the City of Vancouver Heritage Award and the Alcuin Society Design Award.\n\nLeonoff won additional accolades for his other writings, notably the Margaret McWilliams Medal of the Manitoba Historical Society for his 1985 essay, \"The Jewish Farmers of Western Canada\". Leonoff was also the 2007 recipient of the Louis Rosenberg Distinguished Service Award, awarded by the Association for Canadian Jewish Studies for a lifetime of scholarly achievement.\n\nHe continued writing on the history of Jews in Western Canada right up until the time of his death. Following his passing, Leonoff's family found on his desk notes for future writings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34880963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34880963", "title": "Damien Bona", "text": "Damien Bona\n\nDamien Conrad Bona (March 18, 1955 – January 29, 2012) was an American film historian, writer, film critic and journalist. Bona co-authored the 1986 reference book, \"Inside Oscar: The Unofficial History of the Academy Awards,\" a definitive history of the Academy Awards with Mason Wiley, a former classmate at Columbia University. In 1982, Bona quit his job as a Manhattan lawyer and moved to Los Angeles, where he and Wiley embarked on extensive research to write a reference guide to Oscar history from the first ceremony in 1929. Much of the research was conducted at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences library in Beverly Hills, California. The two missed their original publication deadline of November 1982. They submitted the final copy two years later with updates on the 1985 Academy Awards. Co-author Wiley died in 1994. Bona was the sole author of the book's sequel, \"Inside Oscar 2,\" which was released in 2002 and covered the Academy Awards from 1995 through 2000.\n\nBona was born in Sharon, Connecticut, and raised in New Milford. He earned a bachelor's degree in English in 1977 from Columbia University, where he worked as a film critic for the university newspaper, the \"Columbia Daily Spectator\". He earned a law degree from the New York University School of Law in 1980. He worked as a lawyer in Manhattan for two years before resigning and temporarily moving to Los Angeles where he and Mason Wiley began researching their book on the Academy Awards. After their research in Los Angeles, both Bona and Wiley moved back to New York City.\n\nBona is the author of two other books, \"Opening Shots: The Unusual, Unexpected, Potentially Career Threatening First Roles That Launched the Careers of 70 Hollywood Stars\" (1994) and \"Starring John Wayne as Genghis Kahn: Hollywood's All-Time Worst Casting Blunders\" (1996).\n\nBona died in Manhattan of sudden cardiac arrest on January 29, 2012, at the age of 56.\n"}
{"id": "8668478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8668478", "title": "Djiboutian Civil War", "text": "Djiboutian Civil War\n\nThe Djiboutian Civil War (also known as the Afar insurgency) was a conflict in Djibouti, lasting from 1991 to 1994 and resulting in thousands of fatalities. This uneven power sharing between the Issas and Afars led to the Civil War that ravaged the country for three long years.\n\nOn 11 March 1862, the French Government made an agreement with the Afar Sultan Raieta Dini Ahmet. Ahmet sold his territory of Obock for 10,000 thalaris, around F55,000. This was the start of the French colonisation era in the region, the treaty was used by a captain of the Fleuriot de Langle, to colonise the south part of the Tadjoura Gulf.\n\nSince at least French rule, first as French Somaliland and then as French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, there have been ethnic tensions in Djibouti between the Issas, and the Afars. Following independence in 1977, the Issas-dominated People's Rally for Progress party had ruled Djibouti, and since 1981, had ruled it as a one-party state with the People's Rally for Progress the only authorized party. Many Afar felt marginalized.\n\nAt the same time, in 1991, neighboring countries' authoritarian governments were overthrown, Siad Barre in Somalia and Mengistu Haile Mariam in Ethiopia. Eritrea also became independent from the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia in 1991.\n\nIn May 1991, thousands of Ethiopian soldiers routed into Djiboutian territory after the Derg Government (the former Ethiopian Government) was overthrown. Framed by French and Djiboutian troops, they are repatriated back to Ethiopia, but leaving many weapons behind them. At the beginning of October 1991, the rebel organization Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy (FRUD), calling for greater political participation of Afar, launched a guerrilla struggle against the government. There were clashes between government forces and FRUD rebels in the Dikhil region of western Djibouti on October, from the first days of the outbreak of hostilities, specifically on the night of 15–16 November 1991, the Djiboutian Army captured some 232 individuals in the Obock Region. These were mainly the Afars of Eritrea and the militia of the former Derg regime. To wash away the affront, the FRUD launches on 21 November 1991 to the assault of the town of Obock and its garrison, after a long day of fierce fighting, the Djiboutian soldiers crushed them and won the battle. Subsequently, several other battles will confront the national army and the Frud militia, which caused heavy casualties on both sides. The rebel (FRUD) seized all military posts in the north of the country and laid siege to the city of Tadjoura and Obock. The government troops and FRUD rebels clashed near Tadjoura on January 3–4, 1992, resulting in the deaths of some 150 rebels and three soldiers and government troops and FRUD rebels clashed in the Gagade, Kharab, and Bekaneb districts on 17–18 January 1992, resulting in the deaths of some 150 rebels and 16 soldiers. Throughout the war, the fighting was mainly in the north of the country with the exception of the incident in the capital, when the December 18, 1991 the year the government troops entered the area Arhiba inhabited by the Afar, and opened fire on crowds of people. At the same time killed at least 59 people. In February 1992, some French troops were deployed in the north to aid the government forces. With about 3,000 (FRUD) rebel attacked a government institutions in Dikhil but was repelled back. France has tried to mediate between the government and the rebels, but all attempts to organize such talks (November 1992, May 1993 the year ) failed. The government responded by increasing its armed forces from about 5,000 to 20,000 men and recalled its reserves, they were supported with some military equipment by France. On the 5 July 1993, government troops went on the offensive, capturing most of the rebel-held areas. Some 10,000 to 18,000 of Djiboutians fled the fighting in the neighboring Afar Region of Ethiopia. The Civil War contributed to the reintroduction of a multi-party democracy in 1992 with a new constitution. In 1992 and 1993 parliamentary and presidential elections took place. Subsequently, the FRUD split on the question of how far it was to cooperate with the government. But guerrilla actions continue to unfold, the opposition denounces numerous abuses against civilians.\n\nIn December 1994, the Abb'a peace agreement between the government and the moderate majority of FRUDs largely ended the civil war. Two FRUD representatives received ministerial posts, and at the next 1999 elections the FRUD supported the RPP, re-constituted themselves as a political party and some 200 of their adherenets was integrated in the civil service and local administration and almost 700 of fighters joined regular army. A faction of the rebels, led by Ahmed Dini continue low-scale insurgency over the next few years, being especially visible in the 1996. In December 2000 this faction also signed a cease-fire and took five government posts. Accordingly, to the words of agreement, administrative reform were ensued soon after.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1138095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1138095", "title": "Elmer Rice", "text": "Elmer Rice\n\nElmer Rice (born Elmer Leopold Reizenstein, September 28, 1892 – May 8, 1967) was an American playwright. He is best known for his plays \"The Adding Machine\" (1923) and his Pulitzer Prize-winning drama of New York tenement life, \"Street Scene\" (1929).\n\nRice was born Elmer Leopold Reizenstein at 127 East 90th Street in New York City, New York. His grandfather was a political activist in the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states. After the failure of that political upheaval, he emigrated to the United States where he became a businessman. He spent most of his retirement years living with the Rice family and developed a close relationship with his grandson Elmer, who became a politically motivated writer and shared his grandfather's liberal and pacifist politics. A staunch atheist, his grandfather may also have influenced Elmer in his feelings about religion as he refused to attend Hebrew school or to have a bar mitzvah. In contrast, Rice's relationship with his father was very distant. As he wrote in his autobiography, his grandfather and his Uncle Will, both of whom boarded with the family, made up for the affection and attention his father withheld. A child of the tenements, Rice spent much of his youth reading, to his family's consternation, and later observed, \"Nothing in my life has been more helpful than the simple act of joining the library.\"\n\nBecause of his need to support his family when his father's epilepsy worsened, Rice did not complete high school, and he took a number of menial jobs before earning his diploma by preparing for the state examinations on his own and then applying to law school. Though he disliked legal studies and spent a good deal of class time reading plays in class (because they could be finished within the span of a two-hour lecture, he said), Rice graduated from New York Law School in 1912 and began a short-lived legal career. Leaving the profession in 1914, he was always to retain a cynical outlook about lawyers, but his two years in a law office provided him with material for several plays, most notably \"Counsellor-at-Law\" (1931). Courtroom dramas became a Rice specialty.\n\nNeeding to make a living, he decided to try writing full-time. It was a wise decision. His first play, \"On Trial\" (1914), a melodramatic murder mystery, was a great success and ran for 365 performances in New York. George M. Cohan offered to buy the rights for $30,000, a proposition Rice declined largely because he did not believe Cohan could be serious. Co-authored with a friend, Frank Harris (not the famed Oscar Wilde biographer and memoirist), the play was purportedly the first American drama to employ the technique of reverse-chronology, telling the story from its conclusion to its starting-point. \"On Trial\" then went on tour throughout the United States with three separate companies and was produced in Argentina, Austria, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Scotland and South Africa. The author ultimately earned $100,000 from his first work for the stage. None of his later plays earned him as much as \"On Trial.\" The play was adapted for the cinema three times, in 1917, 1928, and 1939.\n\nPolitical and social issues occupied Rice's attention in this period as well. World War I and Woodrow Wilson's conservatism confirmed him in his criticism of the status quo. (He had been firmly converted to socialism in his teens, he said, by reading George Bernard Shaw, H.G. Wells, John Galsworthy, Maxim Gorky, Frank Norris, and Upton Sinclair.) He frequented Greenwich Village, then the most bohemian part of New York City, in the late 1910s and became friendly with many socially-conscious writers and activists, including the African-American poet James Weldon Johnson and the illustrator Art Young.\n\nAfter writing four more plays of no special distinction, Rice startled audiences in 1923 with his next contribution to the theatre, the boldly expressionistic \"The Adding Machine\", which he wrote in 17 days. A satire about the growing regimentation of life in the machine age, the play tells the story the life, death and bizarre afterlife of a dull bookkeeper, Mr. Zero. When Mr. Zero, a mere cog in the corporate machine, discovers that he is to be replaced at work by an adding machine, he snaps and murders his boss. After his trial and execution, he enters the next life only to confront some of the same issues and, judged to be of minimal use in heaven, is sent back to Earth for recycling. Theatre critic Brooks Atkinson called it \"the most original and brilliant play any American had written up to that time ... the harshest and most illuminating play about modern society [Broadway had ever seen].\" Dorothy Parker and Alexander Woollcott were enthusiastic. Other reviewers spoke of him, hyperbolically, as a writer who might become America's Ibsen. Directed with great ingenuity by Philip Moeller, designed by Lee Simonson, and produced by the Theatre Guild, the play starred Dudley Digges and Edward G. Robinson, then at the start of his acting career. Ironically, it made its author no money at all. (Adapted as an innovatively staged musical in 2007, \"The Adding Machine\" enjoyed a successful Off-Broadway run in 2008.)\n\nWhen Dorothy Parker was at work on her own play the following year (loosely based on fellow Algonquin Round Table member Robert Benchley, his marital problems, and the extra-marital temptations he was grappling with) and needed a co-author, she approached Elmer Rice, now acknowledged as the Broadway \"boy wonder\" of the moment. It was a smooth collaboration and also resulted in a brief affair between Parker and the already-married Rice, begun at Rice's insistent urging. The run of the play did not go smoothly, however; despite good reviews, \"Close Harmony\" (1924) closed quickly and was soon forgotten.\n\nRice was a prolific, even tireless writer. His plays over the next five years included the unproduced \"The Sidewalks of New York\" (1925), \"Is He Guilty?\" (1927) and \"The Gay White Way\" (1928) and two collaborations, \"Wake Up, Jonathan\" (1928) with Hatcher Hughes, a dramatist unknown today and \"Cock Robin\" (1929) with Philip Barry, a Broadway name equal to Rice's. None of these plays was a success. Rice was a theatre professional by this time: open to collaboration, increasingly interested in producing and directing his own plays. In the 1930s, he even bought a Broadway house, the famed Belasco Theatre.\n\nRice's second hit (after \"The Adding Machine\") proved to be his most lasting literary accomplishment. Originally entitled \"Landscape with Figures,\" \"Street Scene\" (1929), later the subject of an opera by Kurt Weill, won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama for its realistic chronicle of life in the slums. \"With fifty characters casually strolling through it,\" Brooks Atkinson wrote, \"it looked like an improvisation... Based on the facade of a house at 25 West 65th Street, which Rice selected as typical, the tall massive setting caught the tone and humanity of a decaying brownstone.\" The script had been rejected by most producers who read it, and director George Cukor abandoned it as un-stageable after the second day of rehearsals. Rice took over the direction himself and proved that it was highly stageworthy, if unconventional in its narrative style and disorienting naturalism. Like \"The Adding Machine,\" the play's break with the conventions of stage realism was part of its appeal.\n\nRice's plays of the 1930s included \"The Left Bank\" (1931), a comedy dramatizing an expatriate's superficial attempt to escape from American materialism in Paris, and \"Counsellor-at-Law\" (1931), a vigorous work that drew a realistic picture of the legal profession for which Rice had been trained. (The latter play is probably more frequently revived in regional theatres than any of Rice's other plays.) In that decade, he also wrote two novels and enjoyed a lucrative period in Hollywood, writing screenplays. His time in Hollywood was not without its friction, though, as he was looked upon by many studio heads as one of \"those Eastern Reds.\"\n\nThe Depression-inspired, anti-capitalist \"We, the People\" (1933) was a play particularly close to Rice's heart. It dealt with \"the misfortunes of a typical skilled workman and his family, helplessly engulfed in the tide of national adversity,\" as its author described it. Rice engaged an activist-minded cast and noted set designer Aline Bernstein to design the fifteen different sets that the ambitious play called for. \"We, the People\" failed amid what Rice called \"agitated\" reviews. A 1932 trip to the Soviet Union and to Germany, where he heard Hitler and Goebbels speak, provided material for Rice's next plays. The Reichstag fire trial is an element in \"Judgement Day\" (1934), and conflicting American and Soviet ideologies form the subject of the conversation-piece \"Between Two Worlds\" (1934).\nAfter the failure of these plays, Rice returned to Broadway in 1937 to write and direct for the Playwrights' Company, which he had helped to establish along with Maxwell Anderson, S. N. Behrman, Sidney Howard, and Robert E, Sherwood. Of his later plays, the most successful was the fantasy \"Dream Girl\" (1945) in which an over-imaginative girl encounters unexpected romance in reality. Rice's last play was \"Cue for Passion\" (1958), a modern psycho-analytical variation of the Hamlet theme in which Diana Wynyard played a Gertrude-like character. In his retirement, Rice was the author of a controversial book on American drama, \"The Living Theatre\" (1960), and of a richly detailed autobiography, \"Minority Report\" (1964).\n\nRice was one of the more politically outspoken dramatists of his time and took an active part in the American Civil Liberties Union, the Authors' League, the Dramatists Guild of America where he was elected as the eighth president in 1939, and P.E.N. He was the first director of the New York office of the Federal Theatre Project, but resigned in 1936 to protest government censorship of the Project's \"Living Newspaper\" dramatization of Mussolini's invasion of Ethiopia. An outspoken defender of free speech, he left that position with a \"blast of scorn\" at the Roosevelt administration's efforts to control artistic expression. (In 1932, Rice had reluctantly supported the Communist Party candidate in the presidential election because he found Hoover and Roosevelt equally displeasing alternatives with an insufficient grasp of the crisis the country faced. though in subsequent elections he became an FDR supporter) He also spoke out against McCarthyism in the 1950s.\n\nIn the end, Elmer Rice did not believe he had been a success as a writer, not as he wished to define success. He needed to make a living and, while deriding the commercialism of the New York stage, he managed to earn a considerable amount of money, but at a cost to his more experimental vision. The realistic drama he could write with ease was at odds with the innovations that most intrigued him. \"The Adding Machine\" and \"Street Scene\" were anomalies and did not make money. An even more radical venture, \"The Sidewalks of New York\" of 1925, was an episodic play without words, \"in which speech is indicated by gesture, by a series of situations in which there was no need for speech.\" The Theatre Guild turned the script down flat; Broadway would never be ready for the level of experimentation that inspired Rice, a reality that was a source of continuous frustration for him.\n\nRice was married in 1915 to Hazel Levy and had two children with her, Margaret and Robert. After his divorce in 1942, he married actress Betty Field with whom he had three children, John, Judy and Paul, before their divorce in 1956.\n\nThough born into a working-class family with no interest in the arts and known primarily for his attachment to theater and politics, Rice was also passionate about Old Master and modern art. His own art collection, slowly assembled over the years, included works by Picasso, Braque, Rouault, Leger, Derain, Klee, and Modigliani. He regularly frequented New York's museums and in his autobiography wrote of his first trip to Spain and the powerful impact Velazquez had on him and, in Mexico, of enjoying the work of Diego Rivera and the Mexican Muralists, artists who shared his political bent. He was close friends with Japanese-American modernist painter Yasuo Kuniyoshi.\n\nElmer Rice lived for many years on a wooded estate in Stamford, Connecticut, until his death in Southampton, England, in 1967 of pneumonia after suffering a heart attack. Obituaries took note of a long and respected theater career. Brooks Atkinson described Rice in his history of Broadway as \"a plain, rather sober man with a reticent, unyielding personality... But when a social principle was at stake, he was more clear-headed than most people, and he was quietly invincible... He was one of Broadway's most eminent citizens.\"\n\nElmer Rice's papers were placed at the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin in 1968, a year after his death. Additions have been made by family members over the years. The collection spans over 100 boxes and includes contracts, correspondence, manuscript drafts, notebooks, photographs, royalty statements, scripts, theater programs, and over seventy-three scrapbooks. The Ransom Center's library division has over 900 books from Rice's personal library, many of which are personally inscribed to or annotated by Rice. \n\nRice was portrayed by the actor Jon Favreau in the 1994 film \"Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58533969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58533969", "title": "Fiona McHardy", "text": "Fiona McHardy\n\nFiona McHardy is a Professor of Classics and also the Head of Classics in the Department of Humanities at the University of Roehampton.  Her research interests include ancient and modern Greek literature, folk poetry, anthropology and culture. She teaches modules on ancient Greek language, literature and culture.\nMcHardy completed her PhD at the University of Exeter in 1999. Her thesis was titled \"‘The ideology of revenge in ancient Greek culture: a study of ancient Athenian revenge ethics’\"; and she is the author of \"Revenge in Athenian Culture\" (Bloomsbury, 2008). \n\nShe is an editor for the series \"Intersectionality in Classical Antiquity\" (Edinburgh University Press), which focuses on 'intersectional approaches to sexuality and gender in Greco-Roman Antiquity...with a range of other factors including race, ethnicity, class, ability, masculinity, femininity, transgender and post-colonial gender studies'.\n\nShe is currently (mid-2018) writing a book with Susan Deacy on \"Gender Violence in Ancient Greece\", covering such topics as infanticide, rape, uxoricide and domestic violence. She is a co-editor for \"Cloelia\", the publication of the Women's Classical Caucus.\n\nIn 2017, McHardy co-organised an event with Susan Deacy and Katerina Voliot for the Women's Classical Committee UK on 'Bullying and Harassment in UK Classics Departments: Finding Solutions'.\n\nMcHardy's inaugural professorial lecture, entitled 'Ancient Greek Tiger Mothers', was held on October 8th 2018, at the University of Roehampton.\n\nMcHardy is the author of \"Revenge in Athenian Culture\" (Bloomsbury, 2008); and has co-edited the following four volumes:\n\n"}
{"id": "52260731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52260731", "title": "Francis Carsten", "text": "Francis Carsten\n\nFrancis Ludwig Carsten (25 June 1911 - June 1998) was an eminent British historian of Germany. He was described by Peter Wende as \"the doyen of British historians working on Germany\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54445753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54445753", "title": "General Directorate for Cultural Heritage Rhineland-Palatinate", "text": "General Directorate for Cultural Heritage Rhineland-Palatinate\n\nThe General Directorate for Cultural Heritage Rhineland-Palatinate (), or GDKE, is responsible for the management of cultural heritage in Rhineland-Palatinate. The head office of the Memorial Authority, founded on 1 January 2007, is the Erthaler Hof in Mainz. The Director general has been Thomas Metz since August 1, 2007.\n\nThe Landesdenkmalpflege, which also has its headquarters in the Erthaler Hof in Mainz, is responsible for the scientific collection, research and documentation of cultural monuments, as well as providing responsible advice on important repair measures. The core tasks include locating of the cultural monuments and updating the list of monuments. Since 15 July 2015, provincial curator Roswitha Kaiser is the director of this authority.\n"}
{"id": "153108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153108", "title": "Hesychius of Miletus", "text": "Hesychius of Miletus\n\nHesychius of Miletus (), Greek chronicler and biographer, surnamed Illustrius, son of an advocate, flourished at Constantinople in the 6th century AD during the reign of Justinian.\n\nAccording to Photius (cod. 69) he was the author of three important works:\n\nIn 1663 Gilles Ménage published an anonymous \"Vita Aristotelis\" that is commonly attributed to Hesychius.\n\nPhotius praises the style of Hesychius, and credits him with being a veracious historian.\n\nEditions; J. C. Orelli (1820) and J. Flach (1882); fragments in C. W. Müller, \"Frag. hist. Graec.\" iv. 143 and in Theodor Preger's \"Scriptores originis Constantinopolitanae\", i. (1901); \"Pseudo-Hesychius\", by J Flach (1880).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "421791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=421791", "title": "History of Czechoslovakia (1989–92)", "text": "History of Czechoslovakia (1989–92)\n\nAlthough in March 1987 Gustáv Husák nominally committed Czechoslovakia to follow the program of \"perestroika\", he nevertheless cautioned the party in October 1987 not to \"hasten solutions too quickly\" so as to \"minimize the risks that could occur.\" (December 1, 1987)\n\nOn December 17, 1987, Husák, who was one month away from his seventieth birthday, had resigned as head of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KSC). He retained, however, his post of president of Czechoslovakia and his full membership on the Presidium of the KSC. Husák's resignation was caused by failing health and by increasing ambitions of the party members Miloš Jakeš, Ladislav Adamec and Vasil Biľak, which became apparent since the spring of 1987. Miloš Jakeš, who replaced Husák as first secretary of the KSC, was sixty-five years of age at the time of his assumption of the most powerful post in the country. Other than the age difference and the fact that Jakeš is a Czech whereas Husák is a Slovak, there was little to distinguish the new leader from his predecessor. In his first pronouncements as the head of the KSC, Jakes assured the KSC's Central Committee that he would continue the cautious and moderate path of reform set forth by Husák. He called for a large-scale introduction of new technology as the means to \"fundamentally increase the efficiency of the Czechoslovak economy.\" But he also warned that there would be no \"retreat from the fundamental principles of socialism,\" adding that the party had learned well the \"lesson from 1968-69 and know[s] where such a retreat leads.\" At the same time, Jakeš acknowledged Soviet pressure for reform by pledging to pursue economic restructuring, stating that \"just as Soviet Communists, we too must observe the principle that more democracy means more socialism.\" \n\nThe Czechoslovak version of \"perestroika\", which had slowly taken shape during the last months of Husák's rule under the guidance of the reformist and pro-Mikhail Gorbachev Czechoslovak leader Premier Lubomir Strougal, called for a modest decentralization of state economic administration but postponed any concrete action until the end of the decade. The slow pace of the Czechoslovak reform movement was an irritant to the Soviet leadership. Economically, however, it was surely partly because on the one hand there were no serious economic problems at the standard-of-living level in Czechoslovakia as opposed to e.g. Poland, the Soviet Union and Hungary, and on the other hand the catastrophic initial effects of the reforms in the Soviet Union and Hungary could already be seen in the late 1980s. A corroboration of this might be the fact that Gustáv Husák, before his resignation in 1989 (see Velvet Revolution), told to the newly appointed anti-Communist government they can expect very difficult years to come. The dissatisfaction of many ordinary Czechs and Slovaks was increasing, due to the rigid political situation, lack of freedom, but mainly because they could see on foreign TV channels in some regions (West German in frontier Bohemia, Austrian in southwestern Slovakia (including the capital Bratislava)), and in the late 1980s in all regions due to a gradual spread of videorecorders, the way of living in Western Europe and in the USA. \n\nIn December 1987, some 500,000 Catholics of Czechoslovakia signed a petition for religious freedom. It was the biggest petition of the opposition forces in central Europe. \n\nThe first anti-Communist demonstration took place on March 25, 1988 – the Candle demonstration. An unauthorized peaceful gathering of some 2,000 (other sources 10,000) Catholics in the Slovak capital Bratislava, organized by the Slovak Catholic dissent and demanding religious freedom and civic rights, was violently dispersed by the police force. Some 100 participants were arrested. Leading Communist functionaries (e.g., the Slovak prime minister, minister of the interior, minister of culture) were observing the whole operation from the windows of a nearby hotel (Carlton). \n\nDemonstrations also occurred on October 28, 1988 (the anniversary of the establishment of Czechoslovakia in 1918) in Prague, Bratislava and some other towns. The establishment of the \"capitalist\" Czechoslovakia on October 28 only became a public holiday in September 1988 in the Communist Czechoslovakia. Further demonstrations followed in January 1989 (death of Jan Palach on January 16, 1969), on August 21, 1989 (Soviet intervention in 1968), and on October 28, 1989 (see above).\n\nThe anti-Communist revolution started on November 16, 1989, in Bratislava, with a demonstration of Slovak university students for democracy, and continued with the well-known similar demonstration of Czech students in Prague on November 17.\n\nA coalition government, in which the Communist Party had a minority of ministerial positions, was formed in December 1989. The first free elections in Czechoslovakia since 1946 took place in June 1990 without incident and with more than 95% of the population voting. As anticipated, Civic Forum and Public Against Violence won landslide victories in their respective republics and gained a comfortable majority in the federal parliament. The parliament undertook substantial steps toward securing the democratic evolution of Czechoslovakia. It successfully moved toward fair local elections in November 1990, ensuring fundamental change at the county and town level.\n\nCivic Forum found, however, that although it had successfully completed its primary objective—the overthrow of the communist regime—it was ineffectual as a governing party. The demise of Civic Forum was viewed by most as necessary and inevitable.\n\nBy the end of 1990, unofficial parliamentary \"clubs\" had evolved with distinct political agendas. Most influential was the Civic Democratic Party, headed by Václav Klaus. Other notable parties that came into being after the split were the Czech Social Democratic Party, Civic Movement, and Civic Democratic Alliance.\n\nOn November 25, 1992, Czechoslovakia's parliament (the Federal Assembly) voted to split the country into the Czech Republic and Slovakia starting on January 1, 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "10082768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10082768", "title": "Hockney–Falco thesis", "text": "Hockney–Falco thesis\n\nThe Hockney–Falco thesis is a theory of art history, advanced by artist David Hockney and physicist Charles M. Falco. Both claimed that advances in realism and accuracy in the history of Western art since the Renaissance were primarily the result of optical instruments such as the camera obscura, camera lucida, and curved mirrors, rather than solely due to the development of artistic technique and skill. Nineteenth-century artists' use of photography had been well documented. In a 2001 book, \"Secret Knowledge: Rediscovering the Lost Techniques of the Old Masters\", Hockney analyzed the work of the Old Masters and argued that the level of accuracy represented in their work is impossible to create by \"eyeballing it\". Since then, Hockney and Falco have produced a number of publications on positive evidence of the use of optical aids, and the historical plausibility of such methods. The hypothesis led to a variety of conferences and heated discussions.\n\nPart of Hockney's work involved collaboration with Charles Falco, a condensed matter physicist and an expert in optics. While the use of optical aids would generally enhance accuracy, Falco calculated the types of distortion that would result from specific optical devices; Hockney and Falco argued that such errors could in fact be found in the work of some of the Old Masters.\n\nHockney's book prompted intense and sustained debate among artists, art historians, and a wide variety of other scholars. In particular, it has spurred increased interest in the actual methods and techniques of artists among scientists and historians of science, as well as general historians and art historians. The latter have in general reacted unfavorably, interpreting the Hockney–Falco thesis as an accusation that the Old Masters \"cheated\" and intentionally obscured their methods. Physicist David G. Stork and several co-authors have argued against the Hockney–Falco thesis from a technical standpoint.\n\nHockney and Falco's theory has already inspired an increase in research regarding the use of optics throughout the history of art. For instance, there was the case of the decade-long research on Rembrandt's works conducted by painter Francis O'Neill. In the published paper he wrote with Sofia Palazzo Corner entitled, \"Rembrandt's Self-portraits\", O'Neill presented recurring themes in the painter's works that serve as evidence in his use of mirrors, particularly, in his self-portraits. These include the use of chiaroscuro, which is a signature of the lighting conditions necessary for projections as well as Rembrandt's off-center gaze in his self-portraits, which - according to O'Neill - indicated that the artist might have been looking at a projection surface off to the side rather than straight onto a flat mirror.\n\nAs described in \"Secret Knowledge\", in January 1999 during a visit to the National Gallery, London, Hockney conceived of the idea that optical aids were the key factor in the development of artistic realism. He was struck by the accuracy of portraits by Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, and became convinced that Ingres had used a camera lucida or similar device. From there, Hockney began looking for signs of the use of optical aids in earlier paintings, creating what he called the \"Great Wall\" in his studio by organizing images of great realistic art by time period. What he saw as a sudden rise of realism around 1420, combined with Charles Falco's suggestion that concave mirrors could have been used in that period to project images, was the germ of the Hockney–Falco thesis.\n\nIn 2000, Falco and Hockney published an analysis (\"Optical Insights into Renaissance Art\") of the likely use of concave mirrors in Jan van Eyck's work in \"Optics & Photonics News\", vol. 11. In 2001, Hockney published an extended form of his argument in \"Secret Knowledge\".\n\nThe hypothesis that technology was used in the production of Renaissance Art was not much in dispute in early studies and literature. The 1929 Encyclopædia Britannica contained an extensive article on the camera obscura and cited Leon Battista Alberti as the first documented user of the device as early as 1437. The discussion started by the Hockney–Falco thesis ignored the abundant evidence for widespread use of various technical devices, at least in the Renaissance, and, e.g., Early Netherlandish painting.\n\nIn \"Secret Knowledge\", Hockney argues that early Renaissance artists such as Jan van Eyck and Lorenzo Lotto used concave mirrors; as evidence, he points to the chandelier in Van Eyck's \"Arnolfini Portrait\", the ear in Van Eyck's portrait of Cardinal Albergati, and the carpet in Lotto's \"Husband and Wife\". Hockney suggests that later artists, beginning with Caravaggio, used convex mirrors as well, to achieve a large field of view.\n\n\"Secret Knowledge\" recounts Hockney's search for evidence of optical aids in the work of earlier artists, including the assembly of a \"Great Wall\" of the history of Western art. The 15th century work of Jan van Eyck seems to be the turning point, he argues, after which elements of realism became increasingly prominent. He correlates shifts toward increased realism with advances in optical technologies. The argument of \"Secret Knowledge\" is primarily a visual one, as Hockney was largely unable to determine when and how optical aids were used by textual or direct evidence.\n\nAt a scientific conference in February 2007, Falco further argued that the Arabic physicist Ibn al-Haytham's (965–1040) work on optics, in his \"Book of Optics\", may have influenced the use of optical aids by Renaissance artists. Falco said that his and Hockney's examples of Renaissance art \"demonstrate a continuum in the use of optics by artists from c. 1430, arguably initiated as a result of Ibn al-Haytham's influence, until today.\"\n\nArt historians and others have criticized Hockney's argument on the grounds that the use of optical aids, though well-established in individual cases, has little value for explaining the overall development of Western art, and that historical records and paintings and photographs of art studios (sans optical devices), as well as present-day realist artists, demonstrate that high levels of realism are possible without optical aids.\n\nIn addition to incredulity on the part of art historians and critics of modern art, some of the harshest criticism of the Hockney–Falco thesis came from another expert in optics, image processing and pattern recognition, David G. Stork. Stork analyzed the images used by Falco and Hockney, and came to the conclusion that they do not demonstrate the kinds of optical distortion that curved mirrors or converging lenses would cause. Falco has claimed that Stork's published criticisms have relied on fabricated data and misrepresentations of Hockney and Falco's theory. Stork has rebutted this claim.\n\nCritics of the Hockney–Falco theory claim that the quality of mirrors and optical glass for the period before 1550 and a lack of textual evidence (excluding paintings themselves as \"documentary evidence\") of their use for image projection during this period casts doubt on the theory. Historians are more inclined to agree about the possible relevance of the thesis between 1550 and the invention of the telescope, and cautiously supportive after that period, when there clearly was interest and capacity to project realistic images; 17th century painters such as Johannes Vermeer and Gaspar van Wittel used optical devices in a variety of ways, though not the ways postulated by Hockney.\n\nLeaving the technical optical arguments aside, historians of science investigated several aspects of the historical plausibility of the thesis in a 2005 set of articles in \"Early Science and Medicine\". In his introduction to the volume, Sven Dupré claimed the Hockney–Falco analysis rests heavily on a small number of examples, \"a few dozen square centimeters\" of canvas that seem to show signs that optical devices were used.\n\nLeonardo's notebooks include several designs for creating concave mirrors. Leonardo also describes a camera obscura in his \"Codex Atlanticus\" of 1478–1519.\n\nThe camera obscura was well known for centuries and documented by Ibn al-Haitham in his \"Book of Optics\" of 1011–1021. In 13th-century England Roger Bacon described the use of a camera obscura for the safe observation of solar eclipses, exactly because the viewer looks at the projected image and not the sun itself.\n\nDavid Lindberg's \"A Catalogue of Medieval and Renaissance Optical Manuscripts\" (Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies, 1974) lists 61 manuscripts written in the years 1000–1425. These manuscripts not only describe methods for making mirrors and parabolic mirrors but also discuss their use for image projection.\n\nSara J. Schechner claimed that surviving glassware from the 15th and 16th centuries is far too imperfect to have been used to create realistic images, while \"even thinking about projecting images was alien to the contemporary conceptual frame of mind.\"\nVincent Ilardi, a historian of Renaissance optical glass, subsequently argued against Schechner's conclusions based on surviving glassware, suggesting that the present condition of Renaissance glassware is not likely to reflect the optical quality of such glassware when it was new. Ilardi documents Lorenzo Lotto's purchase of a high-priced crystal mirror in 1549, bolstering the Hockney–Falco thesis in Lotto's case.\nFurthermore, even normal eyeglasses (spectacles) can also project images of sufficient optical quality to support the Hockney–Falco thesis and such eyeglasses, along with magnifying glasses and mirrors, were not only available at the time, but actually pictured in 14th century paintings by artists such as Tommaso da Modena.\n\nDutch draper and pioneering microbiologist Antonie van Leeuwenhoek (1632–1723), a contemporary of artist Vermeer (and an executor for Vermeer when he died in 1675) in Delft was known to have exceptional lens making skills, having created single small lenses capable of 200x magnification, far exceeding those of more complex compound microscopes of the period. Indeed, his feats of lens making were not matched for a considerable time as he kept aspects of their construction secret; in the 1950s, C.L. Stong used thin glass thread fusing instead of polishing to recreate Leeuwenhoek design microscopes. It was long believed that Antonie van Leeuwenhoek was a master lens grinder (a notion repeated in the recent BBC television documentary \"Cell\"). However, it is now believed that he came upon a relatively simple method of making small, high quality glass spheres by heating and manipulating a small rod of soda lime glass.\n\nOn his website, Falco also claims Schechner overlooked manuscript evidence for the use of mirrors made from steel and other metals, as well as numerous metal artifacts that belie the claim that sufficiently large and reflective metal mirrors were unavailable, and that other contributors to the \"Early Science and Medicine\" volume relied on Schechner's mistaken work in dismissing the thesis.\n\nDon Ihde called the hypothesis being 'hyped' and referred to clear evidence about the use of optical tools by, e.g., Albrecht Dürer and Leonardo da Vinci and others. As well the 1929 \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" contains an extensive article on the camera obscura and cites Leon Battista Alberti as the first documented user of the device as early as 1437. Ihde states abundant evidence for widespread use of various technical devices at least in the Renaissance and e.g. in Early Netherlandish painting. Jan van Eyck's 1434 painting \"Arnolfini Portrait\" shows a convex mirror in the centre of the painting. Van Eyck also left his signature above this mirror, showing the importance of the tool. The painting includes a crown glass window in the upper left side, a rather expensive luxury at the time. Van Eyck was rather fascinated by glass and its qualities, which was as well of high symbolic importance for his contemporaries. Early optical instruments were comparatively expensive in the Medieval age and the Renaissance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8215233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8215233", "title": "Independent scientist", "text": "Independent scientist\n\nAn independent scientist (modern gender-neutral term historically also known as gentleman scientist) is a financially independent scientist who pursues scientific study without direct affiliation to a public institution such as a university or government-run research and development body. The expression \"gentleman scientist\" arose in post-Renaissance Europe, but became less common in the 20th century as government and private funding increased.\n\nMost independent scientists have at some point in their career been affiliated with some academic institution, such as Charles Darwin, who was affiliated with the Geological Society of London. \n\nSelf-funded scientists practiced more commonly from the Renaissance until the late 19th century, including the Victorian era, especially in England, before large-scale government and corporate funding was available. Many early fellows of the Royal Society in London were independent scientists.\n\nSelf-funding has the disadvantage that funds may be more restricted; however, it has the advantage of eliminating a number of inconveniences such as teaching obligations, administrative duties, and writing grant requests to funding bodies. It also permits the scientist to have greater control over research directions, as funding bodies direct grants towards interests that may not coincide with that of the scientist. Furthermore, intellectual property of the inventions belongs to the inventor and not the employer.\n\nModern science requires competence and may require access to scientific equipment. However, independent scientists may have past careers as funded scientists, cooperate with funded colleagues, obtain partial equipment-only grants or choose directions where the most expensive resource required is the researcher's time. If the research succeeds, independent scientists may publish results in the same peer-reviewed journals as funded scientists do.\n\nScientists may choose to work on unusual projects with high risk of failure also when the grant system does not fund them. A scientist could be attributed the status of independent scientist if they work on such projects during a gap between two academic positions, for example.\n\nModern-day independent scientists who fund their own research on an independent basis include, for example, Stephen Wolfram who funds his research through the sale of Mathematica software, Julian Barbour, Aubrey de Grey, Barrington Moore, Susan Blackmore, James Lovelock, and John Wilkinson who funds his research on \"molecular synergism in nature\" by running a regulatory scientific consultancy in natural products.\n\nPeter Rich said of Peter D. Mitchell: \"I think he would have found it difficult to have gotten funding because his ideas were rather radical.\" Mitchell went on to win the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1978. Chemist Luis Leloir funded the research institute he headed, the Institute for Biochemical Research, in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He won the Nobel Prize for chemistry in 1970.\n\nThere are today several virtual research institutes for independent scientists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3142716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3142716", "title": "Indigetes", "text": "Indigetes\n\nThe Indigetes (Latin: \"indigetes\" or \"indigetae\" or \"Indiketes\") were an ancient Iberian (Pre-Roman) people of the eastern side of the Iberian peninsula (the Roman Hispania). They are believed to have spoken the Iberian language.\n\nThey occupied the far north east area of the Iberian Peninsula known as Hispania Tarraconensis, in the gulf of Empúries and Rhoda, stretching up into the Pyrenees though the regions of Empordà, Selva and perhaps as far as Gironès, where the Ausetani could be found who were related ethnically.\n\nThey were divided into four tribes, and the main towns they centered on were: \"Indika\" (only mentioned by Stephanus of Byzantium, still unidentified, but he was possibly referring to Empúries or Ullastret), \"Empodrae\" (Empúries, where there was an extremely important Greek, Phocaean and Massaliotan colony, which had their corresponding commercial “emporio”), \"Rhoda\" (Roses), \"Juncaria\" (La Jonquera), \"Cinniana\" (Cervià) and \"Deciana\" (close to La Jonquera). This land was watered by the \"Clodianus\" (Fluvià), the \"Sambrocas\" (Muga) and the \"Tichis\" (Ter). This district in the Gulf of Empúrias was known as \"Juncaris Campus\".\n\nThe Indigetes minted their own coins which bore the inscription \"undikesken\" in northeastern Iberian script that is interpreted in Iberian language as a self-reference to the ethnic name of that people: from the Indigetes or from those of \"undika\".\n\nIn 218 BC they were conquered by Rome during the Roman conquest of Hispania. In 195 BC they rebelled; the consul Marcus Porcius Cato quashed the rebellion.\n\nThe main archaeological sites for the Indigetes are in Ullastret (Baix Empordà), Castell de la Fosca (Palamós, Baix Empordà) and Puig Castellet (Lloret de Mar, Selva).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54650316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54650316", "title": "Jean-Louis Flandrin", "text": "Jean-Louis Flandrin\n\nJean-Louis Flandrin (July 4, 1931 – August 8, 2001) was a French historian. His fields of study were family, sexuality, and, in particular, food. He introduced new analytical methods and examined a range of sources including church penitentials, cookbooks, and even traditional proverbs over a wide historical time-frame, from the High Middle Ages to the 20th century. At the time of his death, Flandrin was Professor Emeritus at the University of Paris VIII and Head of Research at the École des hautes études en sciences sociales.\n\n\nHis personal papers are preserved at the Archives nationales under the document code 624AP.\n"}
{"id": "31980773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31980773", "title": "Jerca Vodušek Starič", "text": "Jerca Vodušek Starič\n\nJerca Vodušek Starič (born 1950) is a Slovene historian. She received a bachelor's degree in history at the Faculty of Arts of the University of Ljubljana, a master's degree in 1979, and a PhD in 1991.\n\nHer field of expertise is Slovene and European history. Her focus is the government takeover by the communists in Yugoslavia after World War II. Currently she is a professor of modern history at the Faculty of Arts in Maribor. From 2005-08, she was the director of the Institute of Contemporary History in Ljubljana.\n\n"}
{"id": "14836528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14836528", "title": "Kåre Lunden", "text": "Kåre Lunden\n\nKåre Lunden (8 April 1930 – 18 July 2013) was a Norwegian historian, and Professor Emeritus of History at the University of Oslo.\n\nLunden was born in Naustdal. He originally studied agronomy at the Norwegian College of Agriculture, graduating in 1957. He then worked six years as a civil servant in the Norwegian Ministry of Church Affairs and Education, before taking up history studies. There he graduated as cand.philol. in 1965. He was appointed by the King-in-Council as Professor of History at the University of Oslo in 1976.\n\nHe is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nHe was an able javelin thrower while studying. He represented the sports team of the Norwegian College of Agriculture, NLHI, and threw 50.27 metres in 1954.\n\nHe was a brother of poet Eldrid Lunden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22732456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22732456", "title": "Kırklareli Jewish Quarter", "text": "Kırklareli Jewish Quarter\n\nUntil the twentieth century, there were three thousand people within the Kırklareli Jewish congregation. However during the 1934 Thrace Pogroms, most Jews fled the city. The synagogue of the city is still active and now there are only 5 Jewish residents in the city of Thrace, including a rabbi. Most of the remaining population of these five Kırklareli are around the age of 80 or over. Rabbi Hayim Abravanel (85), his wife Victoria Abravanel (76) and Yasua Kaneti (80). The youngest members of the community are Penhas (58) and Rozi (50) Haleva. The Synagogue has been standing for 50 years.\n"}
{"id": "58130044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58130044", "title": "Mark Persits", "text": "Mark Persits\n\nMark Mendelevich Persits (, ~ 1908–1986) was a Soviet propagandist of atheism and a scientific worker in the study of problems of religion and atheism, Writer, historian of social thought.\n\nPersits was an employee of the . In 1952 he defended his thesis for the degree of candidate of historical sciences on the topic «Decree of the Council of People's Commissars of the RSFSR of January 23 (February 5), 1918 \"On the separation of church from state and school from the church\" and its historical significance».\n\nHe studied the history of Marxist atheism and atheism and the history of free thinking and the struggle for freedom of conscience in Russia. Persits suggested that the success of an atheist lecture depended not so much on the content as on the lecturer.\n"}
{"id": "22089091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22089091", "title": "Milica Kacin Wohinz", "text": "Milica Kacin Wohinz\n\nMilica Kacin Wohinz (née Brezigar, born 12 October 1930) is a Slovenian historian, renowned for her seminal study on the history of the forceful Italianization of the Slovene minority in Italy (1920–1947) that took place between 1918 and 1943.\n\nShe was born in the Slovene Littoral that was after World War I annexed by the Kingdom of Italy and was at the age of twelve punished by the Italian Fascist regime for her father's resistance to Italianization by being expelled from school. During World War II, she joined the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People, helping Slovene partisans. After World War II and the annexation of the Slovenian Littoral to Yugoslavia in 1947, she attended the Slovene-language high schools in Postojna and Ljubljana. \n\nIn 1952, she enrolled to the University of Ljubljana, where she studied history. She obtained her PhD in 1970 under the supervision of Vasilij Melik. Since 1959, she worked at the Institute of Contemporary History in Ljubljana. Between 1979 and 1983, she was head of the Institute.\n\nBecause her research topic was the history of an ethnic minority and not the history of working class, her work was subjected to Marxist criticisms by Dušan Kermavner during Slovenia's socialist period.\n\nHer works on Slovene and Croat anti-Fascist resistance against Italianization are considered pioneer. She was one of the first historians to engage in thorough research of the militant anti-Fascist organization TIGR.\n\nShe was member of the joint Slovenian-Italian Cultural-Historical Commission, established by the governments of the Republic of Slovenia and Republic of Italy in order to jointly publish the account of historical relationship between the two peoples from 1880 to 1954 based on historiographic examination of sources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42709393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42709393", "title": "Mu-Kien Adriana Sang", "text": "Mu-Kien Adriana Sang\n\nMu-Kien Adriana Sang Ben (born Santiago de los Caballeros, 1955) is a historian, essayist, analyst, political scientist and academic from the Dominican Republic. Sang is Vice-Rector of the Pontifical Catholic University Mother and Teacher.\n\nThe daughter of a Cantonese immigrant man, and a Dominican-born woman whose father was a Chinese immigrant and her mother was Mulatto (of African and European descent). Sang has a degree in Teaching \"Summa Cum Laude\" in the \"Pontificia Universidad Católica Madre y Maestra\", where she has taught for more than two decades. She did her graduate degree in Adult Education in the \"Centro de Cooperación Regional para la Educación de Adultos de América Latina y el Caribe\" (CREFAL) in 1978, in Mexico City. In 1985 he achieved his PhD in History and Civilization at the \"School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences\" in Paris. She translated from French to Spanish the work \"Correspondence of the Consul of France in Santo Domingo\", published in two volumes under the sponsorship of the official Sesquicentennial Commission of National Independence. She has been a guest professor and public speaker at several universities in different nations.\n\nIn 2006, a street was named in her honor at the Plaza of Culture Juan Pablo Duarte, host of the International Book Fair of Santo Domingo.\n\nHer husband, Rafael Toribio, has been rector of the Technological Institute of Santo Domingo (INTEC).\n\n"}
{"id": "59039213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59039213", "title": "Muzio Febonio", "text": "Muzio Febonio\n\nMuzio Febonio (13 July 1597 – 3 January 1663) was an Italian priest and historian, best known for his historical and agiographic works about Marsica, the Abruzzo sub-region where he was born. In his writings he made extensive use of archive documents and historiographic and archaeological sources, showing a deep knowledge of them, although in a somewhat formal and pedantic style. However, his works represent a valuable source of information for later historians, even if their publication occurred with a lot of errors and delays, which partly explains the limited fame this author enjoyed.\n\nHe was born in Avezzano, Abruzzo. He completed his studies in Rome where he obtained a PhD in law before taking up theological studies and an ecclesiastical career. Febonio came, in 1626, to obtain the office of apostolic protonotary. He became the abbot of Saint Cesidius Church in Trasacco in 1631 and the property administrator of the Colonna family in Marsica. Here he began to devote himself to the historical and geographical studies of his own land since it was lacking in historical summaries and documentation.\n\nIn 1648 Febonio settled first in Sulmona, where he obtained the post of general vicar of the cathedral and then, in 1651, in L'Aquila for the same position. During the troubled stay in L'Aquila he received several accusations, later totally dropped, from the vicar of St. Cesidius' Chair in Trasacco, including those of simony and murder. Misunderstandings and contrasts will arise with the new Aquilan bishop, Spanish Francesco Tellio de Leon, elected in 1654, which will prove irremediable.\n\nFrom 1660, after some years without posts when he devoted himself to scholarly studies with a greater commitment, he was partnered with the vicar of the Diocese of Veroli. \n\nThe first draft of the precious \"Historiae marsorum\" () would date back just to 1660, however, the work, made of three books, was terminated between 1661 and 1662, and in all likelihood, after some months, the revision with the stylistic corrections suggested by historian Ferdinando Ughelli, also considered by Febonio as a master of erudition. He will spend the last years of his life in his native town as general vicar of Marsi diocese, finally partnering with the vicar of Pescina, where he died after a short disease.\n\nThe main works are listed below:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15059969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15059969", "title": "Nerses Balients", "text": "Nerses Balients\n\nNerses Balients, also Nerses Balienc () or Nerses Bagh'on (), was a Christian Armenian monk of the early 14th century. He is mainly known for writing a history of the Kingdom of Cilician Armenia. Though his works are regarded by modern scholars as a valuable source from the time period, they are also regarded as frequently unreliable.\n\nNerses Balients had been converted to Catholicism by the Dominicans. He was a member of the \"United Brothers\" (or \"Unitarians\") founded by the Dominican Barthelemy of Bologna, bishop of Maragha, which advocated a strict union of the Armenian Church with the Catholic Church. According to his writings, Nerses also used to call himself \"Bishop of Urmia\".\n\nHe visited Pope Clement V in Avignon and authored and translated various works while there.\n\nNerses Balients is the author of a history of the kings of Cilician Armenia, especially as regards their relations with the Mongols.\n\nSegments of the work of Nerses Balients have been inserted into Sempad's \"Chronique du Royaume de Petite Arménie\", a version of which was compiled by the modern historian Edouard Dulaurier, who added information from Nerses Balients to expand on the period after Sempad's death.\n\nOne challenged passage in this work is where Nerses wrote that the Armenian King Hetoum II, during his 1299 offensives in Syria with the Mongols, went with a small force as far as the outskirts of Cairo, and then spent some fifteen days in Jerusalem visiting the Holy Places:\n\nSome historians considered Nerses Balient's statement as an indication that Mongols may have conquered, or at least been present in, Jerusalem in 1299. Claude Mutafian, in \"Le Royaume Arménien de Cilicie\" mentions the writings and the 14th century Armenian Dominican which claim that the Armenian king visited Jerusalem as it was temporarily removed from Muslim rule. Alain Demurger, in \"Jacques de Molay\", mentions the possibility that the Mongols may have occupied Jerusalem, quoting an Armenian tradition describing that Hethoum celebrated mass in Jerusalem in January 1300. Some scholars, such as Dr. Sylvia Schein, have regarded this statement as an indication that Mongols may have been present in Jerusalem in 1299. In her 1991 book, Schein wrote that the Armenian information about Hetoum's visit was confirmed by Arab chroniclers.\n\nHowever, other historians have strongly criticized Nerses Balienc's statement, and Schein's interpretation. Dr. Angus Donal Stewart in his 2001 book \"The Armenian Kingdom and the Mamluks\", called the statement by Nerses Balienc an \"absurd claim\" from an unreliable source, and said that the Arab chroniclers did not confirm it in any way. Another historian, Reuven Amitai, also did a detailed comparison of all of the available primary sources about the events around the Battle of Wadi al-Khazindar, and concluded that the Armenian account was in error, as it did not match up with other similar sources about the same events, was provably full of exaggerations and inaccuracies, and had been written as to glorify the Armenian king Hetoum. Amitai also pointed out that despite Schein's acceptance of the source as genuine, that even the original editor of the work, Edouard Dulaurier, had denied the veracity of the Armenian account.\n\nIn his work, Edouard Dulaurier actually writes that Nerses may have added a few fantastic details to exaggerate Hetoum's accomplishments somewhat, specifically disputing one instance in which Nerses claims that Hetoum went as far as Cairo, when Ghazan himself is known to have sent 15,000 men only as far as Gaza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60433", "title": "Nuclear bunker buster", "text": "Nuclear bunker buster\n\nA nuclear bunker buster, also known as an earth-penetrating weapon (EPW), is the nuclear equivalent of the conventional bunker buster. The non-nuclear component of the weapon is designed to penetrate soil, rock, or concrete to deliver a nuclear warhead to an underground target. These weapons would be used to destroy hardened, underground military bunkers or other below-ground facilities. An underground explosion releases a larger fraction of its energy into the ground, compared to a surface burst or air burst explosion at or above the surface, and so can destroy an underground target using a lower explosive yield. This in turn could lead to a reduced amount of radioactive fallout. However, it is unlikely that the explosion would be completely contained underground. As a result, significant amounts of rock and soil would be rendered radioactive and lofted as dust or vapor into the atmosphere, generating significant fallout.\n\nWhile conventional bunker busters utilize several methods to penetrate concrete structures, these are for the purpose of destroying the structure directly, and are generally limited in how much of a bunker (or system of bunkers) they can destroy by depth and their relatively low explosive force (versus nuclear weapons).\n\nThe primary difference between conventional and nuclear bunker busters is that, while the conventional version is meant for one target, the nuclear version can destroy an entire underground bunker system.\n\nThe main principles in modern bunker design are largely centered around survivability in nuclear war. As a result of this both American and Soviet sites reached a state of \"super hardening\", involving defenses against the effects of a nuclear weapon such as spring- or counterweight-mounted (in the case of the R-36) control capsules and thick concrete walls (three to four feet for the Minuteman ICBM launch control capsule) heavily reinforced with rebar. These systems were designed to survive a near miss of 20 megatons.\n\nLiquid-fueled missiles such as those historically used by Russia are more fragile and easily damaged than solid-fueled missiles such as those used by the United States. The complex fuel storage facilities and equipment needed to fuel missiles for launch and de-fuel them for frequent maintenance add additional weaknesses and vulnerabilities. Therefore, a similar degree of silo \"hardening\" does not automatically equate to a similar level of missile \"survivability\".\n\nMajor advancements in the accuracy and precision of nuclear and conventional weapons subsequent to the invention of the missile silo itself have also rendered many \"hardening\" technologies useless. With modern weapons capable of striking within feet of their intended targets, a modern \"near miss\" can be much more effective than a \"hit\" decades ago. A weapon need only cover the silo door with sufficient debris to prevent its immediate opening to render the missile inside useless for its intended mission of rapid strike or counter-strike deployment.\n\nA nuclear bunker buster negates most of the countermeasures involved in the protection of underground bunkers by penetrating the defenses prior to detonating. A relatively low yield may be able to produce seismic forces beyond those of an air burst or even ground burst of a weapon with twice its yield. Additionally, the weapon has the ability to impart more severe horizontal shock waves than many bunker systems are designed to combat by detonating at or near the bunker's depth, rather than above it.\n\nGeologic factors also play a major role in weapon effectiveness and facility survivability. Locating facilities in hard rock may appear to reduce the effectiveness of bunker-buster type weapons by decreasing penetration, but the hard rock also transmits shock forces to a far higher degree than softer soil types. The difficulties of drilling into and constructing facilities within hard rock also increase construction time and expense, as well as making it more likely construction will be discovered and new sites targeted by foreign militaries.\n\nConcrete structure design has not changed significantly in the last 70 years. The majority of protected concrete structures in the U.S. military are derived from standards set forth in \"Fundamentals of Protective Design\", published in 1946 (US Army Corps of Engineers). Various augmentations, such as glass, fibers, and rebar, have made concrete less vulnerable, but far from impenetrable.\n\nWhen explosive force is applied to concrete, three major fracture regions are usually formed: the initial crater, a crushed aggregate surrounding the crater, and \"scabbing\" on the surface opposite the crater. Scabbing, also known as spalling, is the violent separation of a mass of material from the opposite face of a plate or slab subjected to an impact or impulsive loading, without necessarily requiring that the barrier itself be penetrated.\n\nWhile soil is a less dense material, it also does not transmit shock waves as well as concrete. So while a penetrator may actually travel further through soil, its effect may be lessened due to its inability to transmit shock to the target.\n\nFurther thinking on the subject envisions a hardened penetrator using kinetic energy to defeat the target's defenses and subsequently deliver a nuclear explosive to the buried target.\n\nThe primary difficulty facing the designers of such a penetrator is the tremendous heat applied to the penetrator unit when striking the shielding (surface) at hundreds of meters per second. This has partially been solved by using metals such as tungsten (the metal with the highest melting point), and altering the shape of the projectile (such as an ogive).\n\nAltering the shape of the projectile to incorporate an ogive shape has yielded substantial improvement in penetration ability. Rocket sled testing at Eglin Air Force Base has demonstrated penetrations of 100 to in concrete when traveling at . The reason for this is liquefaction of the concrete in the target, which tends to flow over the projectile. Variation in the speed of the penetrator can either cause it to be vaporized on impact (in the case of traveling too fast), or to not penetrate far enough (in the case of traveling too slowly). An approximation for the penetration depth is obtained with an impact depth formula derived by Sir Isaac Newton.\n\nAnother school of thought on nuclear bunker busters is using a light penetrator to travel 15 to 30 meters through shielding, and detonate a nuclear charge there. Such an explosion would generate powerful shock waves, which would be transmitted very effectively through the solid material comprising the shielding (see \"scabbing\" above).\n\nThe main criticisms of nuclear bunker busters regard fallout and nuclear proliferation. The purpose of an earth-penetrating nuclear bunker buster is to reduce the required yield needed to ensure the destruction of the target by coupling the explosion to the ground, yielding a shock wave similar to an earthquake. For example, the United States retired the B-53 warhead, with a yield of nine megatons, because the B-61 Mod 11 could attack similar targets with much lower yield (400 kilotons), due to the latter's superior ground penetration. By burying itself into the ground before detonation, a much higher proportion of the explosion energy is transferred to seismic shock when compared to the surface burst produced from the B-53's laydown delivery. Moreover, the globally dispersed fallout of an underground B-61 Mod 11 would likely be less than that of a surface burst B-53. Supporters note that this is one of the reasons nuclear bunker busters should be developed. Critics claim that developing new nuclear weapons sends a proliferating message to non-nuclear powers, undermining non-proliferation efforts.\n\nCritics also worry that the existence of lower-yield nuclear weapons for relatively limited tactical purposes will lower the threshold for their actual use, thus blurring the sharp line between conventional weapons intended for use and weapons of mass destruction intended only for hypothetical deterrence, and increasing the risk of escalation to higher-yield nuclear weapons.\n\nLocal fallout from any nuclear detonation is increased with proximity to the ground. While a megaton-class yield surface burst will inevitably throw up many tons of (newly) radioactive debris, which falls back to the earth as fallout, critics contend that despite their relatively minuscule explosive yield, nuclear bunker busters create more local fallout per kiloton yield. Also, because of the subsurface detonation, radioactive debris may contaminate the local groundwater.\n\nThe Union of Concerned Scientists advocacy group points out that at the Nevada Test Site, the depth required to contain fallout from an average-yield underground nuclear test was over 100 meters, depending upon the weapon's yield. They contend that it is improbable that penetrators could be made to burrow so deeply. With yields between 0.3 and 340 kilotons, they argue, it is unlikely the blast would be completely contained.\n\nAnother criticism is that bunkers can be built at greater depth to make them more difficult to reach. The target's vulnerability is then limited to openings like the ventilation system, which are susceptible to conventional explosives. Proponents of nuclear bunker busters respond that deeper bunkers entail higher costs, limiting the potential enemies who can withstand nuclear bunker busters.\n\nCritics further state that the testing of new nuclear weapons would be prohibited by the proposed Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. Although Congress refused to ratify the CTBT in 1999, and therefore this treaty has no legal force in the US, the US has adhered to the spirit of the treaty by maintaining a moratorium on nuclear testing since 1992.\n\nProponents, however, contend that lower explosive yield devices and subsurface bursts would produce little to no climatic effects in the event of a nuclear war, in contrast to multi-megaton air and surface bursts (that is, if the nuclear winter hypothesis proves accurate). Lower fuzing heights, which would result from partially buried warheads, would limit or completely obstruct the range of the burning thermal rays of a nuclear detonation, therefore limiting the target, and its surroundings, to a fire hazard by reducing the range of thermal radiation with fuzing for subsurface bursts. Professors Altfeld and Cimbala have suggested that belief in the possibility of nuclear winter has actually made nuclear war more likely, contrary to the views of Carl Sagan and others, because it has inspired the development of more accurate, and lower explosive yield, nuclear weapons.\n\nAs early as 1944, the Barnes Wallis Tallboy bomb and subsequent Grand Slam weapons were designed to penetrate deeply fortified structures through sheer explosive power. These were not designed to directly penetrate defences, though they could do this (for example, the Valentin submarine pens had ferrous concrete roofs thick which were penetrated by two Grand Slams on 27 March 1945), but rather to penetrate under the target and explode leaving a camouflet (cavern) which would undermine foundations of structures above, causing it to collapse, thus negating any possible hardening. The destruction of targets such as the V3 battery at Mimoyecques was the first operational use of the Tallboy. One bored through a hillside and exploded in the Saumur rail tunnel about below, completely blocking it, and showing that these weapons could destroy any hardened or deeply excavated installation. Modern targeting techniques allied with multiple strikes could perform a similar task.\n\nDevelopment continued, with weapons such as the nuclear B61, and conventional thermobaric weapons and GBU-28. One of the more effective housings, the GBU-28 used its large mass () and casing (constructed from barrels of surplus 203 mm howitzers) to penetrate of concrete, and more than of earth. The B61 Mod 11, which first entered military service after the Cold war had ended, in January 1997, was specifically developed to allow for bunker penetration, and is speculated to have the ability to destroy hardened targets a few hundred feet beneath the earth.\n\nWhile penetrations of were sufficient for some shallow targets, both the Soviet Union and the United States were creating bunkers buried under huge volumes of soil or reinforced concrete in order to withstand the multi-megaton thermonuclear weapons developed in the 1950s and 1960s. Bunker penetration weapons were initially designed within this Cold War context. One likely Soviet Union/Russian target, Mount Yamantau, was regarded in the 1990s by Maryland Republican congressman, Roscoe Bartlett, as capable of surviving \"half a dozen\"(6) repeated nuclear strikes of an unspecified yield, one after the other in a \"direct hole\".\n\nThe Russian continuity of government facility at Kosvinsky Mountain, finished in early 1996, was designed to resist US earth-penetrating warheads and serves a similar role as the American Cheyenne Mountain Complex. The timing of the Kosvinsky completion date is regarded as one explanation for US interest in a new nuclear bunker buster and the declaration of the deployment of the B-61 mod 11 in 1997, Kosvinsky is protected by about 1000 feet of granite.\n\nThe weapon was revisited after the Cold War during the 2001 U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, and again during the 2003 invasion of Iraq. During the campaign in Tora Bora in particular, the United States believed that \"vast underground complexes,\" deeply buried, were protecting opposing forces. Such complexes were not found. While a nuclear penetrator (the \"Robust Nuclear Earth Penetrator\", or \"RNEP\") was never built, the U.S. DOE was allotted budget to develop it, and tests were conducted by the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory. The RNEP was to use the 1.2 megaton B83 physics package.\n\nThe Bush administration removed its request for funding of the weapon in October 2005. Additionally, then U.S. Senator Pete Domenici announced funding for the nuclear bunker-buster has been dropped from the U.S. Department of Energy's 2006 budget at the department's request.\n\nWhile the project for the RNEP seems to be in fact canceled, Jane's Information Group speculated in 2005 that work might continue under another name.\n\nA more recent development (c. 2012) is the GBU-57 Massive Ordnance Penetrator, a 30000-pound conventional gravity bomb. The USAF's B-2 Spirit bombers can each carry two such weapons.\n\nIn 2010 it was revealed that members of the Illegals Program, a group of Russian sleeper agents in the US, were gathering online information about bunker busters and made contacts with a former intelligence official and with a scientist involved in developing the weapons.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "351392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351392", "title": "Otto of Freising", "text": "Otto of Freising\n\nOtto of Freising (; c. 1114 – 22 September 1158) was a German churchman and chronicler. He was Otto I Bishop of Freising as from 1138.\n\nOtto was born in Klosterneuburg as the fifth son of Leopold III, margrave of Austria, by his wife Agnes, daughter of the emperor Henry IV. By her first husband, Frederick I of Hohenstaufen, duke of Swabia, Agnes was the mother of the German king Conrad III and grandmother of the emperor Frederick I. Otto's sister, Judith or Ita, was married to Marquess William V of Montferrat. Otto was thus related to the most powerful families in Germany and northern Italy.\n\nThe records of his life are scanty and the dates somewhat uncertain. He studied in Paris, where he took an especial interest in philosophy. He is said to have been one of the first to introduce the philosophy of Aristotle into Germany, and served as provost of a new foundation in Austria.\n\nHaving entered the Cistercian order, Otto convinced his father to found Heiligenkreuz Abbey in 1133, thus bringing literacy and sophisticated agriculture (including wine making) to the region that would become Vienna. He became abbot of the Cistercian monastery of Morimond in Burgundy about 1136, and soon afterwards was elected bishop of Freising. This diocese, and indeed the whole of Bavaria, was then disturbed by the feud between the Welfs and the Hohenstaufen, and the church was in a deplorable condition; but a great improvement was brought about by the new bishop in both ecclesiastical and secular matters.\n\nIn 1147 Otto took part in the disastrous Second Crusade. The section of the crusading army led by the bishop was decimated, but Otto reached Jerusalem and returned to Bavaria in 1148 or 1149. He enjoyed the favour of Conrad's successor Frederick I, was probably instrumental in settling the dispute over the duchy of Bavaria in 1156, and was present at the famous diet of Besançon in 1157. Still retaining the habit of a Cistercian monk, he died at Morimond on 22 September 1158. In 1857 a statue of the bishop was erected at Freising.\n\nOtto is most remembered for two important historical works.\n\nThe first of these is his \"Chronica sive Historia de duabus civitatibus\" (\"Chronicle or history of the two cities\"), a historical and philosophical work in eight books, which follows to some extent the lines laid down by Augustine and Orosius. Written during the time of the civil war in Germany (1143–1145), it contrasts Jerusalem and Babel, the heavenly and the earthly kingdoms, and also contains much valuable information about the history of his own time. The chronicle, which was held in very high regard by contemporaries, covers the years up until 1146, and from this date until 1209 it was continued by Otto, abbot of St Blasius (d. 1223). In the \"Chronica\", Otto reports a meeting he had with Bishop Hugh of Jabala, who told him of a Nestorian Christian king in the east named Prester John. It was hoped this monarch would bring relief to the crusader states. This is the first documented mention of Prester John.\n\nBetter known is Otto's \"Gesta Friderici imperatoris\" (\"Deeds of Emperor Frederick\"), written at the request of Frederick I and prefaced by a letter from the emperor to the author. The \"Gesta\" comprises four books, the first two of which were written by Otto and the remaining two, or parts of them, by his pupil Ragewin or Rahewin. It has been argued that the third book and the early part of the fourth were also the work of Otto. Beginning with the quarrel between Pope Gregory VII and the emperor Henry IV, the first book takes the history down to the death of Conrad III in 1152. It is not confined to German affairs, as the author digresses to tell of the preaching of Bernard of Clairvaux, of his zeal against the heretics, and of the condemnation of Pierre Abélard; he also discourses on philosophy and theology. The second book opens with the election of Frederick I in 1152 and deals with the history of the first five years of his reign, especially in Italy, in some detail. From this point (1156) the work is continued by Ragewin. Otto's Latin is excellent, and in spite of a slight partiality for the Hohenstaufen, and some minor inaccuracies, the \"Gesta\" has been described as a \"model of historical composition.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7245679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7245679", "title": "Paolo Giovio", "text": "Paolo Giovio\n\nPaolo Giovio (also spelled \"Paulo Jovio\"; Latin: \"Paulus Jovius\"; 19 April 1483 – 11 December 1552) was an Italian physician, historian, biographer, and prelate.\n\nLittle is known about Giovio's youth. He was a native of Como; his family was from the Isola Comacina of Lake Como. His father, a notary, died around 1500. He was educated under the direction of his elder brother Benedetto, a humanist and historian. Although interested in literature, he was sent to Padua to study medicine. He graduated in 1511.\n\nGiovio worked as physician in Como but, after the plague spread in that city he moved to Rome, settling there in 1513. Pope Leo X assigned him a \"cathedra\" (chair) of Moral Philosophy and, later, that of Natural Philosophy in the Roman university. He was also knighted by the Pope. In the same period he started to write historical essays. He wrote a memoir of Leo soon after his death.\n\nIn 1517 Giovio was appointed as the personal physician for Cardinal Giulio di Giuliano de' Medici (the future Pope Clement VII). In the field he wrote some treatises, like the \"De optima victus ratione\", in which he expresses his doubts about the current pharmacology, and the need to improve prevention before the cure.\n\nGiovio helped Clement VII during the 1527 sack of Rome. From 1526 to 1528, he stayed on the island of Ischia as Vittoria Colonna's guest. In 1528, he became bishop of Nocera de' Pagani. Giovio wrote an account of Dmitry Gerasimov's embassy to Clement VII, which related detailed geographical data on Muscovy.\n\nIn 1536 Giovio had a villa built for him on Lake Como, which he called \"Museo\", and which he used for his collection of portraits of famous people. After Clement's death, he retired. As well as paintings, he sought antiquities, etc., and his collection was one of the first to include pieces from the New World. A set of copies of the paintings from the collection, now known as the Giovio Series, is on display in the Uffizi Gallery.\n\nIn 1549 Pope Paul III denied Giovio the title of Bishop of Como, and he moved to Florence, where he died in 1552.\n\nGiovio is chiefly known as the author of a celebrated work of contemporary history, \"Historiarum sui temporis libri XLV\", of a collection of lives of famous men, \"Vitae virorum illustrium\" (1549‑57), and of \"Elogia virorum bellica virtute illustrium\", (Florence, 1554), which may be translated as \"Praise of Men Illustrious for Courage in War\" (1554). He is best remembered as a chronicler of the Italian Wars. His eyewitness accounts of many of the battles form one of the most significant primary sources for the period. Many pages of his work are devoted to Skanderbeg.\n\nGiovio's notable work include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50373240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50373240", "title": "Peter Borsay", "text": "Peter Borsay\n\nPeter N. Borsay is professor of history at Aberystwyth University. He is a specialist in the social, urban and cultural history of Britain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9911369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9911369", "title": "Reverse Krebs cycle", "text": "Reverse Krebs cycle\n\nThe reverse Krebs cycle (also known as the reverse tricarboxylic acid cycle, the reverse TCA cycle, or the reverse citric acid cycle) \nis a sequence of chemical reactions that are used by some bacteria to produce carbon compounds from carbon dioxide and water.\n\nThe reaction is the citric acid cycle run in reverse: Where the Krebs cycle takes complex carbon molecules in the form of sugars and oxidizes them to CO and water, the reverse cycle takes CO and water to make carbon compounds.\nThis process is used by some bacteria to synthesise carbon compounds, sometimes using hydrogen, sulfide, or thiosulfate as electron donors. In this process, it can be seen as an alternative to the fixation of inorganic carbon in the reductive pentose phosphate cycle which occurs in a wide variety of microbes and higher organisms.\n\nThe reaction is a possible candidate for prebiotic early-earth conditions and, so, is of interest in the research of the origin of life. It has been found that some non-consecutive steps of the cycle can be catalyzed by minerals through photochemistry, while entire two three-step sequences can be promoted by metal ions and iron (as reducing agent) under acidic conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1426576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1426576", "title": "Sumatralith", "text": "Sumatralith\n\nA sumatralith is an oval to rectangular shaped stone artefact made by unifacially flaking around the circumference of a cobble. It is often used to infer the Hoabinhian character of a lithic assemblage.\n\n"}
{"id": "47020010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47020010", "title": "Tedo Zhordania", "text": "Tedo Zhordania\n\nTedo Zhordania (; 10 April 1854 – 22 October 1916) was a Georgian historian, philologist, and educator.\n\nBorn in an Orthodox priest's family in the village of Mokvi, then part of the Russian Empire, Zhordania studied theology in Kutaisi, Tbilisi, and Moscow. The leading Russian historian of that period, Vasily Klyuchevsky, recommended the young Georgian student to pursue his career in Moscow, but Zhordania returned to Tbilisi, where he taught geography at a theological college and supervised church schools. An amateur historian, Zhordania revealed, studied, and published a number of hitherto unknown historical records. Many of these sources were subsequently lost and are known to us exclusively from Zhordania's publications. He died in Kaspi. He was subsequently buried at the Didube Pantheon in Tbilisi.\n"}
{"id": "21742296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21742296", "title": "Timeline of dendrochronology timestamp events", "text": "Timeline of dendrochronology timestamp events\n\nA Timeline of dendrochronology timestamped events.\n"}
{"id": "56900155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56900155", "title": "Town Mill, Guildford", "text": "Town Mill, Guildford\n\nThe Town Mill is a Grade II listed 18th Century watermill located in the centre of Guildford on the River Wey.\n\nThe earliest recorded mill on the site was one constructed by Walter de la Poyle in 1295. This was a fulling mill as Guildford was an important location in the wool trade. This was probably the mill known as Kings Mill. By the late 17th century the mill had been extended to include corn milling with 4 pairs of stones, two for flour and two for animal feed. The whole assembly was driven by three external water wheels. The construction of the Wey Navigation was a boon for the mill, enabling grain to be delivered to the mill by barge and the resulting sacks of flour to be taken, again by barge, to London.\n\nBy 1768 the buildings had become rather dilapidated and the eastern range was demolished and replaced by a three-storey red brick edifice with dentil moulding under the eaves of a tiled roof. The western range was simply repaired and comtinued in use. This section was known as the Hogsmeat Mill. At the same time the old undershot wheels were replaced with more efficient breast shot wheels. In 1852 the western section was replaced with an identical brick building styled to match the 1768 building. In 1827 it was reported that an extension to the Hogsmeat Mill was attached to the Guildford foundry, on the site now occupied by the Yvonne Arnaud Theatre, but this building was demolished by 1852.\n\nFrom 1770, an additional water wheel was being used to pump water to the town reservoir on Pewsey Down. This was replaced by two water turbines in 1896, then a single turbine in 1930, in use until 1952 when it was itself replaced by electric pumps nearby. In 2003, Guildford Borough Council arranged for the refurbishment and installation of an identical turbine as an example of renewable energy. Rather than pumping water, this turbine drives a generator to supply up to 260,000 kWH of electricity into the National Grid, annually. The turbine came on-line in 2006. The 1930 turbine has since been preserved, and is on display at Dapdune Wharf.\n\nThe Mill is now used by the adjacent Yvonne Arnaud Theatre as a scenery workshop and studio theatre.\n"}
{"id": "2785635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2785635", "title": "Transylvanian School", "text": "Transylvanian School\n\nThe Transylvanian School (\"Școala Ardeleană\" in Romanian) was a cultural movement which was founded after part of the Romanian Orthodox Church in Habsburg-ruled Transylvania accepted the leadership of the Pope and became the Greek-Catholic Church (ca.1700). The links with Rome brought to the Romanian Tranylvanians the ideas of the Age of Enlightenment. The Transylvanian School's major centres were in the cities of Blaj, Oradea, Lugoj and Beiuş.\n\nIts members contemplated the origin of Romanians from a scientific point of view, bringing historical and philological arguments in favour of the thesis that the Transylvanian Romanians were the direct descendants of the Roman colonists brought in Dacia after its conquest in early 2nd century AD.\n\nThe Transylvanian School had a notable impact in the Romanian culture of both Transylvania, but also of the Romanians living across the Carpathians, in Wallachia and Moldavia, leading to the National awakening of Romania.\n\nSamuil Micu-Klein, Gheorghe Şincai, Petru Maior and Ion Budai-Deleanu, who were members of the Transylvanian School during the era of Romanian national awakening, emphasised the ancient purely Latin origin of Romanians to enhance the political and cultural prestige of Romanians in Western Europe. In 1791, they contributed in the memorandum : \"Supplex Libellus Valachorum Transylvaniae\". In this memorandum they demanded similar rights for the Transylvanian Romanians, which the Hungarian nobles the enfranchised Saxon bourgeois and Székelys enjoyed by the Union of the Three Nations. This document was presented to Emperor Leopold II by the Transylvanian School.\n\nThe Transylvanian School created the current phonetic system of the Romanian alphabet based on the Latin alphabet, largely derived from the Italian and the French alphabets. This replaced the use of the medieval Romanian Cyrillic alphabet as well as the previously Latin alphabet based phonetic system which had been based on the Hungarian alphabet. Another notable contribution of the Transylvanian School was the usage of the first French and Italian neologisms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5896053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5896053", "title": "Trash culture", "text": "Trash culture\n\nThe term \"trash culture\" entered into common use from the '80s to indicate artistic or entertainment expressions considered of low cultural profile, and thus able to stimulate and attract the audiences.\n\nIt refers, as an adjective, to books, movies, TV shows, etc. being characterized by poor taste, vulgarity themes and subjects voluntary chosen and with self-satisfaction to attract the audience through what is shoddy, of low quality, and culturally impoverished.\n\nAs a noun, it can be referred to the spread of trash, the theorists of trash, TV trash, or trash sub-culture. \n\nIn this sense, trash culture is defined as the validation of the voyeuristic sight of the middle class which approaches the popular culture as style of consumption.\n\nThe concept of trash culture should not be confused or merged with the concept of \"kitsch\", even if the two are correlated. Kitsch is linked to art in a permanent way, but it is also a social phenomenon which establishes itself as a way of being: in Western society it is characterized by the limitation of the artist's space of creation. Kitsch is essentially multiplication and reachability. It is based on the consumeristic civilization which creates to produce, and produces to consume. It is a repetition whose consequence is a new activity in the relationship between man and environment: consumerism.\n\nIn this sense the concept of trash culture can be considered an evolution of the 19th-century concept of kitsch, a development of a consumeristic behavior that, at the beginning, was related to the lowest social classes. Now the phenomenon has embraced a wider range of classes, reaching the contemporary middle class and sometimes the high class. As kitsch was a social phenomenon that established itself as a way of being, so too trash culture can be defined, but in this one the aim of a continuous process of creation and consumption is the externalization and the accentuation of the self being, that can be expressed through the way of dressing, wearing accessories, and through the self social approach.\n\nThe popular culture that surrounds us in our daily lives bears a striking similarity to some of the great works of literature of the past. In television, movies, magazines, and advertisements we are exposed to many of the same stories as those critics who study the great books of Western literature, but we have simply been encouraged to look at those stories differently.\n\nThe great literature and cultural work of the past has been rewritten for today's consumer society, with supermarket tabloids such as the \"National Enquirer\" and celebrity gossip magazines like \"People\" serving as contemporary versions of the great dramatic tragedies of the past. Today's advertising repeats the tale of the Golden Age, but inverts the value system of a classic utopia; the shopping mall combines bits and pieces of the great garden styles of Western history, and now adds consumer goods; \"Playboy\" magazine revises Castiglione's Renaissance courtesy book, \"The Book of the Courtier\"; and \"Cosmopolitan\" magazine revises the women's coming-of-age novels of Jane Austen, Gustave Flaubert, and Edith Wharton.\n\nWhen speaking about trash TV, the term is referred to a whole branch of TV production that tends to exaggerate and to take themes to an extreme level. The objective of this kind of entertainment is to hit the audience through frenzy, accumulation and the absence of any distinction. Trash TV is very often close to ridiculousness, and exaggerating is the key resource: it exaggerates quantities and proportions, the physical and the body dimensions.\n\nThe term \"trash TV\" entered into everyday language in the 80s, to indicate artistic expressions considered of low cultural profile, but able to stimulate an audience. Starting from the 80s, in fact, the private broadcasting channels started to be very spread, and this led to new marketing strategies, focused on the possibility of attracting a larger audience paying for more exclusive shows. Now, TV shows have to build up the brand of the TV station, creating content that cannot be found on the public channels or the competitors.\n\nProbably, the most important and evident proof of how trash culture is affecting common people's tastes and preferences is laying on the spread of cheap richness as a way of self-expression and self-satisfaction.\n\nSomeone can be defined as a \"cheap rich\" if he/she is wearing ostentatiously certain kind of clothes, jewels or accessories. The aim of people dressed in this way is simply to become striking and to be showy, without considering the real value of the items worn. The key purpose of cheap richness is, in fact, to show eye-catching clothes and accessories that are not of considerable real value or quality, but they look like they were, thanks to golden and sparkling details. The cheap riches usually wear common fashion jewelry, but they display it as if they were wearing expensive and exclusive items. The same can be said for clothes. For example, it is common to associate furs with wealth and opulence, and therefore a person willing to look wealthy and rich is going to buy a fake fur and to wear it ostentatiously. The person cannot afford the expenditure for a real fur, but desperately wants to wear fur and to look like someone that could afford it.\n\nWe can find popular examples of cheap riches both in the African-American cultural tradition and in the white trash culture. Many VIPs are dressing themselves in ways that are easily reproducible in items of lower quality but equal prominence.\n\nIn African-American, hip-hop, and popular cultures, it is common to depict images of African-American rappers brandishing large, golden rings or necklaces, singing songs about themselves or others coming out of a difficult, \"ghetto\" situation and, afterwards, becoming wealthy because of their music. \n\nPerceivably, the message for fans may be that they could also imitate wealthy individuals by the aposematic display of golden accessories - which may or may not be genuine - and might thereby attain some sense of conformity, interpersonal acceptance, enjoy social reciprocity; or even of conferring to themselves semblance of upward mobility. \n\nThis can indeed be appealing to a broad range of peoples over diverse geographical regions, cultures, classes, and linguistic spheres; in contradistinction to other contemporary styles whereby the wearer's aim is to \"falsely appear\" as though from a lower Socioeconomic status.\n\nAfrican-American rappers are not unique example of VIPs wearing clothes easily reproducible with poor quality items by cheap riches. The famous singer Madonna, for example, is being depicted as a trash artist, both in apparel and in behaviors since the 80s, when her career started.\n\nNumber 47, Fall 1996, pp. 57–72.\n\n"}
{"id": "16551207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16551207", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 341", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 341\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 341, adopted on October 27, 1973, after the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of Resolution 340, the Council decided that the Peacekeeping Force would be established for a six-month period and would be continued thereafter if the Council wished it to do so. \n\nThe resolution was adopted with 14 votes to none, with the People's Republic of China not participating in the vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54444729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54444729", "title": "Werner Oechslin", "text": "Werner Oechslin\n\nWerner Oechslin (born 1944) is a Swiss historian and author.\n\nHe was born in 1944.\n\nHe studied art history, archeology, philosophy and mathematics in Zurich and Rome.\n\nSince 1985, he has been a professor of history at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology.\n\nHe is a founder of the Werner Oechslin Library.\n\nHis notable books are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34542163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34542163", "title": "William Parker Morrell", "text": "William Parker Morrell\n\nWilliam Parker Morrell, CBE (20 November 1899–27 April 1986) was a notable New Zealand historian and university professor. He was born in Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand on 20 November 1899.\n\nHis father was William John Morrell, Chancellor of Otago University, Dunedin.\n"}
{"id": "697358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697358", "title": "Wilton culture", "text": "Wilton culture\n\nThe Wilton culture is the name given by archaeologists to an archaeological culture which was common to parts of south and east Africa around six thousand years ago, during the Stone Age period. The culture is characterized by a greater number of tool types, distinguishing it from its predecessors.\n\nIt was first described by John Hewitt after he excavated with the collaboration of C. W. Wilmot a cave on the farm Wilton. \n\nOccupation sites include that at Kalambo Falls and the valley of Twyfelfontein. Additionally, a partially preserved camp dating to 2300 BC was found in Gwisho, near the Kafue River.\n\nIts tools are broadly analogous to the European mesolithic Microliths, which are a common artefact type. Later examples of the culture however indicate usage of iron. There are sites in southern Africa which exhibit evidence of rock art by the Wilton people.\n\nTools developed in Gwisho were more sophisticated than those of its predecessors. The Wilton people in Gwisho developed a bone industry, which produced items such as awls, ornaments and composite arrows. They also constructed and utilized wooden tools to uproot edible roots, which was a staple in their diet. Most of their food supply came from harvesting edible matter.\n\nIt is speculated by anthropologists that all the people of Gwisho belonged to a single 'kinship group', a group of which all members are related to one another by ancestry or various alternative ways.\n"}
{"id": "53793439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53793439", "title": "Witness seminar", "text": "Witness seminar\n\nA witness seminar is a method of collecting oral history material, whereby a number of people connected to an event or topic meet to share recollections of their involvement. The results may be recorded or videoed and an edited transcript published.\n\nThe concept was conceived and formalised by the Institute of Contemporary British History (now the Centre for Contemporary British History) and was subsequently adopted by The History of Modern Biomedicine Group, and published as volumes in the \"Wellcome Witnesses to Contemporary Medicine\" series.\n\n"}
