{"id": "33416896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416896", "title": "Anti-individualism", "text": "Anti-individualism\n\nAnti-individualism (also known as content externalism) is an approach to various areas of thought (both analytic and continental) including philosophy, the philosophy of psychology, French historical studies, literature, phenomenology and linguistics.\n\nThe proponents arguing for anti-individualism in these areas have in common the view that what seems to be internal to the individual is to some degree dependent on the social environment, thus self-knowledge, intentions, reasoning and moral value may variously be seen as being determined by factors outside the person. The position has been supported by Sanford Goldberg and by other thinkers such as Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Hilary Putnam and Tyler Burge.\n\nAcademic discussion negotiating anti-individualism as a reasonable stance started with Tyler Burge's 1988 \"Individuation and Self-Knowledge\" being particularly influential. In it, Burge set out to argue for a limited agreement with the Cartesian model of self-cognition as being Authoritative, but also pointed out that knowledge of self-cognition was not always absolute, allowing for the individuation of thought to originate from both the external content of our environment as well as from the internal landscape of our self-knowledge as it is still being discovered: \"One can know what one's mental events are and yet not know relevant general facts about the conditions for individuating those events. It is simply not true that the cogito gives us knowledge of the individuation conditions of our thoughts which enables us to \"shut off\" their individuation conditions from the physical environment\".\n\nMichael McKinsey builds on this in 1991 discussing Burge's view in his paper \"Anti-Individualism and Privileged Access\" arguing that there is no warrant to an epistemic narrow state of mind (i.e. privileged access) and that there is only a wide state of mind as influenced by the conditions of individuation of thought. Anthony Brueckner then questions McKinsey's take on Burge and McKinsey replies in his \"Accepting the Consequences of Anti-individualism\".\n\nMany of the essays found in Hilary Putnam's \"The Twin Earth Chronicles\" are considered early formative works for the anti-individualist model from the analytic perspective.\n\n"}
{"id": "305790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305790", "title": "Assumption Island day gecko", "text": "Assumption Island day gecko\n\nAssumption Island day Gecko (Phelsuma abbotti sumptio ), named after a small island outlying on the south west end of the Seychelles is a subspecies of geckos. This gecko is only found on Assumption Island. It typically reaches the length of 140 mm, lives on palm trees and feeds on insects and fruit.\n"}
{"id": "12549373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12549373", "title": "Behavior-based safety", "text": "Behavior-based safety\n\nBehavior-based safety (BBS) is the \"application of science of behavior change to real world safety problems\". or \"A process that creates a safety partnership between management and employees that continually focuses people's attentions and actions on theirs, and others, daily safety behavior.\" BBS \"focuses on what people do, analyzes why they do it, and then applies a research-supported intervention strategy to improve what people do\". At its very core BBS is based on a larger scientific field called organizational behavior management.\n\nIn a safety management system based upon the hierarchy of hazard control, BBS may be applied to internalise hazard avoidance strategies or administrative controls (including use of personal protective equipment), but should not be used in preference to the implementation of reasonably practicable safety measures further up the hierarchy.\n\nTo be successful a BBS program must include all employees, from the CEO to the front line workers including hourly, salary, union employees, contractors and sub-contractors. To achieve changes in behavior, a change in policy, procedures and/or systems most assuredly will also need some change. Those changes cannot be done without buy-in and support from all involved in making those decisions.\n\nBBS is not based on assumptions, personal feeling, and/or common knowledge. To be successful, the BBS program used must be based on scientific knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "621628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621628", "title": "Blood money (restitution)", "text": "Blood money (restitution)\n\nBlood money, also called bloodwit, is money or some sort of compensation paid by an offender (usually a murderer) or his/her family group to the family or kin group of the victim.\n\nBlood money is, colloquially, the reward for bringing a criminal to justice. A common meaning in other contexts is the money-penalty paid by a murderer to the kinsfolk of the victim. These fines completely protect the offender (or the kinsfolk thereof) from the vengeance of the injured family. The system was common among Germanic peoples before the introduction of Christianity (weregild), and a scale of payments, graduated according to the heinousness of the crime, was fixed by laws, which further settled who could exact the blood-money, and who were entitled to share it. Homicide was not the only crime thus expiable: blood-money could be exacted for all crimes of violence. Some acts, such as killing someone in a church or while asleep, or within the precincts of the royal palace, were \"bot-less\"; and the death penalty was inflicted. Such a criminal was outlawed, and could be killed on sight.\n\nIn Islamic terms, Qisas can in some cases result in blood money being paid out to the family of victims. The amount varies from country to country and from case to case.\n\nAs a person's life is considered as being the property of God, Judaism forbids the taking of blood-money for the life of a murdered victim.\n\nIn Japanese culture it is common to give blood money or \"mimaikin\" to a victim's family. Such was the case with Lucie Blackman's father who accepted £450,000 as blood money for the murder of his daughter.\n\nUnder the Korean legal system, it is common for those accused of both minor (such as defamation) and serious crimes (such as rape) to offer blood money (\"hapuigeum\", 합의금) to the victim, and if accepted then the perpetrator is usually excused further punishment. It is often brokered by the police. Despite being common practice, its use in high-profile cases does sometimes result in protests.\n\nIn the Somali people's customary law, which they call \"Xeer\" (a polycentric legal system developed indigenously), blood money is issued in the event of libel, theft, physical harm, rape and death, as well as to supply assistance to relatives of the injured party.\n\nIn the Christian Bible, the term is used to refer to the thirty pieces of silver Judas Iscariot received in exchange for revealing the identity of Jesus Christ to the forces sent by the Pharisees and/or the Sanhedrin. After the crucifixion of Christ, Judas returned the payment to the chief priests, who “took the silver pieces and said, ‘It is not lawful for to put them into the treasury, because it is the price of blood.’” \n\n\"Shanghaiing\" was the practice of the forced conscription of sailors. Boarding masters, whose job it was to find crews for ships, were paid \"by the body,\" and thus had a strong incentive to place as many seamen on ships as possible. This pay was called blood money.\n"}
{"id": "31183372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31183372", "title": "Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology", "text": "Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology\n\nThe Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology (CCACE) is a \"centre of excellence\" to advance research into how ageing affects cognition, and how mental ability in youth affects health and longevity.\n\nBased at the University of Edinburgh and funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC), ESRC, BBSRC and EPSRC through the LLHW MRC's Lifelong Health and Wellbeing scheme, the Centre is led by Professor Ian Deary alongside 2 co-Directors and 8 Research Group Leaders spread across three University of Edinburgh sites (George Square, New Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, Western General Hospital).\n\n"}
{"id": "780612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780612", "title": "Child discipline", "text": "Child discipline\n\nChild discipline is the methods used to prevent future behavioral problems in children. The word discipline is defined as imparting knowledge and skill, in other words, to teach. In its most general sense, discipline refers to systematic instruction given to a disciple. \"To discipline\" means to instruct a person to follow a particular code of conduct.\n\nDiscipline is used by parents to teach their children about expectations, guidelines and principles. Children need to be given regular discipline to be taught right from wrong and to be maintained safe. Child discipline can involve rewards and punishments to teach self-control, increase desirable behaviors and decrease undesirable behaviors. While the purpose of child discipline is to develop and entrench desirable social habits in children, the ultimate goal is to foster sound judgement and morals so the child develops and maintains self-discipline throughout the rest of his/her life.\n\nBecause the values, beliefs, education, customs and cultures of people vary so widely, along with the age and temperament of the child, methods of child discipline vary widely. Child discipline is a topic that draws from a wide range of interested fields, such as parenting, the professional practice of behavior analysis, developmental psychology, social work, and various religious perspectives. In recent years, advances in the understanding of attachment parenting have provided a new background of theoretical understanding and advanced clinical and practical understanding of the effectiveness and outcome of parenting methods.\n\nIn Western society, there has been debate in recent years over the use of corporal punishment for children in general, and increased attention to the concept of \"positive parenting\" where good behavior is encouraged and rewarded. Consistency, firmness and respect are all important components of positive discipline. The goal of positive discipline is to teach, train and guide children so that they learn, practice self-control and develop the ability to manage their emotions, and make wise choices regarding their personal behavior. \n\nHistorical research suggests that there has been a great deal of individual variation in methods of discipline over time.\n\nNicholas Orme of the University of Exeter argues that children in medieval times were treated differently from adults in legal matters, and the authorities were as troubled about violence to children as they were to adults. In his article, \"Childhood in Medieval England,\" he states, \"Corporal punishment was in use throughout society and probably also in homes, although social commentators criticized parents for indulgence towards children rather than for harsh discipline.\" Salvation was the main goal of discipline, and parents were driven to ensure their children a place in heaven. In one incident in early 14th-century London, neighbors intervened when a cook and clerk were beating a boy carrying water. A scuffle ensued and the child's tormentors were subdued. The neighbors didn't even know the boy, but they firmly stood up for him even when they were physically attacked, and they stood by their actions when the cook and clerk later sued for damages.\n\nDuring colonial times in the United States, parents were able to provide enjoyments for their children in the form of toys, according to David Robinson, writer for the \"Colonial Williamsburg Journal\". Robinson notes that even the Puritans permitted their young children to play freely. Older children were expected to swiftly adopt adult chores and accountabilities, to meet the strict necessities of daily life. Harsh punishments for minor infractions were common. Beatings and other forms of corporal punishment occurred regularly; one legislator even suggested capital punishment for children's misbehavior.\n\nThe Book of Proverbs mentions the importance of disciplining children, as opposed to leaving them neglected or unruly, in several verses. Interpretation of these verses varies, as do many passages from the Bible, from literal to metaphorical. The most often paraphrased is from Proverbs 13:24, \"He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.\" (King James Version.) Other passages that mention the 'rod' are Proverbs 23:14, \"Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell,\" and Proverbs 29:15, \"The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame.\"\n\nAlthough the Bible's lessons have been paraphrased for hundreds of years, the modern phrase, \"Spare the rod and spoil the child,\" was coined by Samuel Butler, in \"Hudibras\", a mock heroic narrative poem published in 1663. The Contemporary English Version of Proverbs 13:24 is: 'If you love your children you will correct them; if you don't love them, you won't correct them'.\n\nThe primary guidelines followed by medieval parents in training their children were from the Bible. Scolding was considered ineffectual, and cursing a child was a terrible thing. In general, the use of corporal punishment was as a disciplinary action taken to shape behavior, not a pervasive dispensing of beatings for no reason. Corporal punishment was undoubtedly the norm. The medieval world was a dangerous place, and it could take harsh measures to prepare a child to live in it. Pain was the medieval way of illustrating that actions had consequences.\n\nIn his 1690 \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" English physician and philosopher John Locke argued that the child resembled a blank tablet (tabula rasa) at birth, and was not inherently full of sin. In his 1693 \"Some Thoughts Concerning Education\" he suggested that the task of the parent was to build in the child the strong body and habits of mind that would allow the capacity of reason to develop, and that parents could reward good behavior with their esteem and punish bad behavior with disgrace – the withdrawal of parental approval and affection - as opposed to beatings.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, child-rearing experts abandoned a romantic view of childhood and advocated formation of proper habits to discipline children. A 1914 U.S. Children's Bureau pamphlet, \"Infant Care\", urged a strict schedule and admonished parents not to play with their babies. John B. Watson's 1924 \"Behaviorism\" argued that parents could train malleable children by rewarding good behavior and punishing bad, and by following precise schedules for food, sleep, and other bodily functions.\n\nAlthough such principles began to be rejected as early as the 1930s, they were firmly renounced in the 1946 best-seller \"Baby and Child Care\", by pediatrician Benjamin Spock, which told parents to trust their own instincts and to view the child as a reasonable, friendly human being. Dr. Spock revised his first edition to urge more parent-centered discipline in 1957, but critics blamed his popular book for its permissive attitude during the youth rebellions of the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nFollowing the permissive trend of the 1960s and early 1970s, American evangelical Christian James Dobson sought the return of a more conservative society and advocated spanking of children up to age eight. Dobson's position is controversial. As early as 1985 \"The New York Times\" stated that \"most child-care experts today disapprove of physical punishment.\"\n\nIn many cultures, parents have historically had the right to spank their children when appropriate. A 2006 retrospective study in New Zealand, showed that physical punishment of children remained quite common in the 1970s and 1980s, with 80% of the sample reporting some kind of corporal punishment from parents, at some time during childhood. Among this sample, 29% reported being hit with an empty hand. However 45% were hit with an object, and 6% were subjected to serious physical abuse. The study noted that abusive physical punishment tended to be given by fathers and often involved striking the child's head or torso instead of the buttocks or limbs.\n\nAttitudes have changed in recent years, and legislation in some countries, particularly in continental Europe, reflect an increased skepticism toward corporal punishment. As of December 2017, domestic corporal punishment has been outlawed in 56 countries around the world, most of them in Europe and Latin America, beginning with Sweden in 1966. Official figures show that just 10 percent of Swedish children had been spanked or otherwise struck by their parents by 2010, compared to more than 90 percent in the 1960s. The Swedish law does not actually lay down any legal punishment for smacking but requires social workers to support families with problems.\n\nEven as corporal punishment became increasingly controversial in North America, Britain, Australia and much of the rest of the English-speaking world, limited corporal punishment of children by their parents remained lawful in all 50 states of the United States. It was not until 2012 that Delaware became the first state to pass a statute defining \"physical injury\" to a child to include \"any impairment of physical condition or pain.\"\n\nA number of authors have emphasized the importance of cultural differences in assessing disciplinary methods. Baumrind argues that \"The cultural context critically determines the meaning and therefore the consequences of physical discipline . . .\" (Baumrind, 1996; italics in original). Polite (1996) emphasizes that the \"debate over whether or not to use corporal punishment rages in many ethnic communities.\" Larzelare, Baumrind and Polite assert that \"After ignoring decades of cultural differences in the effects of spanking, these 2 ARCHIVES [1997] studies and 2 other studies in the past year have each found significantly\ndifferent effects for African Americans than for non-Hispanic European Americans. The effects of spanking in African American families are generally beneficial to children, unless it is used excessively, either in severity or in frequency.\" (Larzelere et al., 1998; references to other articles omitted). Our results confirm the serious differences of opinion on discipline, even in a relatively homogenous ethnic community.\n\nThere are different parenting styles which parents use to discipline their children. Four types have been identified: authoritative parents, authoritarian parents, indulgent parents, and indifferent parents.\n\nAuthoritative parents are parents who use warmth, firm control, and rational, issue-oriented discipline, in which emphasis is placed on the development of self-direction. They place a high value on the development of autonomy and self-direction, but assume the ultimate responsibility for their child's behavior. \"You live under my roof, you follow my rules!\" is a cliché, but one that parents may often find themselves speaking - and it probably most closely mimics the authoritative parenting style.\n\nAuthoritarian parents are parents who use punitive, absolute, and forceful discipline, and who place a premium on obedience and conformity. If parents exhibit good emotional understanding and control, children also learn to manage their own emotions and learn to understand others as well. These parents believe it is their responsibility to provide for their children and that their children have no right to tell the parent how best to do this. Adults are expected to know from experience what is really in the child's best interest and so adult views are allowed to take precedence over child desires. Children are perceived to know what they want but not necessarily what is best for them.\n\nIndulgent parents are parents who are characterized by responsiveness but low demandingness, and who are mainly concerned with the child's happiness. They behave in an accepting, benign, and somewhat more passive way in matters of discipline.\n\nIndifferent parents are parents who are characterized by low levels of both responsiveness and demandingness. They try to do whatever is necessary to minimize the time and energy they must devote to interacting with their child. In extreme cases, indifferent parents may be neglectful. They ask very little of their children. For instance, they rarely assign their children chores. They tend to be relatively uninvolved in their children's lives. It's not that they don't love their children. It's just that they believe their children should live their own lives, as free of parental control as possible.\n\nA fifth type of parenting style is connectedness. Connected parents are parents who want to improve the way in which they connect with their children using an empathetic approach to challenging or even tumultuous relationships. Using the 'CALM' technique, by Jennifer Kolari, parents recognize the importance of empathy and aspire to build capacity in their children in hopes of them becoming confident and emotionally resilient. The CALM acronym stands for: Connect emotionally, match the Affect of the child, Listen to what your child is saying and Mirror their emotion back to show understanding.\n\nNon-physical discipline consists of both punitive and non-punitive methods but does not include any forms of corporal punishment such as hitting or spanking. The regular use of any single form of discipline becomes less effective when used too often, a process psychologists call habituation. Thus, no single method is considered to be for exclusive use. Non-Physical discipline is used in the concerted cultivation style of parenting that comes from the middle and upper class. concerted cultivation is the method of parenting that includes heavy parental involvement, and use reasoning and bargaining as disciplinary methods.\n\nA common method of child discipline is sending the child away from the family or group after misbehavior. Children may be told to stand in the corner (\"corner time\") or may be sent to their rooms for a period of time.\nA time-out involves isolating or separating a child for a few minutes and is intended to give an over-excited child time to calm down.\n\nAlternatively, time-outs have been recommended as a time for parents to separate feelings of anger toward the child for their behavior and to develop a plan for discipline.\n\nWhen using time-outs as a discipline strategy, individuals must also take into consideration the temperaments of the child if one decides to use time-outs. If a child, for example, has a feisty temperament, or a temperament that expresses emotion in a highly intense way, then discipline strategies of using time-outs would be ineffective because of the clash of discipline strategy to the child's temperament trait.\n\nIf an individual decides to use the time-out with a child as a discipline strategy, the individual must be unemotional and consistent with the undesired behavior. Along with taking into consideration the child's temperament, the length of the time-out needs to also depend on the age of the child. For example, the time-out should last one minute per year of the child's age, so if the child is five years old, the time-out should go no longer than five minutes.\n\nSeveral experts do not recommend the use of time-out or any other form of punishment. These authors include Thomas Gordon, Alfie Kohn, and Aletha Solter.\n\nGrounding is a form of discipline, usually, for older children, preteens and teenagers, that restricts their movement outside of the home, such as visiting friends or using the car and they are not allowed to go anywhere but school and few required places. Sometimes it is combined with the withdrawal of privileges for computer, video games, telephone or TV.\n\nScolding involves reproving or criticizing a child's negative behavior and/or actions.\n\nSome research suggests that scolding is counter-productive because parental attention (including negative attention) tends to reinforce behavior.\n\nWhile punishments may be of limited value in consistently influencing rule-related behavior, non-punitive discipline techniques have been found to have greater impact on children who have begun to master their native language. Non-punitive discipline (also known as empathic discipline and positive discipline) is an approach to child-rearing that does not use any form of punishment. It is about loving guidance, and requires parents to have a strong relationship with their child so that the child responds to gentle guidance as opposed to threats and punishment. According to Dr. Laura Markham, the most effective discipline strategy is to make sure your child wants to please you.\n\nNon-punitive discipline also excludes systems of \"manipulative\" rewards. Instead, a child's behavior is shaped by \"democratic interaction\" and by deepening parent-child communication. The reasoning behind it is that while punitive measures may stop the problem behavior in the short term, by themselves they do not provide a learning opportunity that allows children the autonomy to change their own behavior. Punishments such as time-outs may be seen as banishment and humiliation. Consequences as a form of punishment are not recommended, but natural consequences are considered to be possibly worthwhile learning experiences provided there is no risk of lasting harm.\n\nPositive discipline is both non-violent discipline and non-punitive discipline. Criticizing, discouraging, creating obstacles and barriers, blaming, shaming, using sarcastic or cruel humor, or using physical punishment are some negative disciplinary methods used with young children. Any parent may occasionally do any of these things, but doing them more than once in a while may lead to low self-esteem becoming a permanent part of the child's personality.\n\nAuthors in this field include Aletha Solter, Alfie Kohn, Pam Leo, Haim Ginott, Thomas Gordon, Lawrence J. Cohen, and John Gottman.\n\nIn the past, harsh discipline has been the norm for families in society. However, research by psychologists has brought about new forms of effective discipline. Positive discipline is based on minimizing the child's frustrations and misbehavior rather than giving punishments. The main focus in this method is the \"Golden Rule\", treat others the way you want to be treated. Parents follow this when disciplining their children because they believe that their point will reach the children more effectively rather than traditional discipline. The foundation of this style of discipline is encouraging children to feel good about themselves and building the parent's relationship with the child so the child wants to please the parent. In traditional discipline, parents would instill fear in their child by using shame and humiliation to get their point across. However, studies show that this type of punishment ultimately causes the children to have more psychological problems in their adolescence and adulthood. Physical and harsh punishment shows the child that violence and negative treatment is acceptable in some circumstances, wheres, positive discipline demonstrates the opposite. In positive discipline the parents avoid negative treatment and focus on the importance of communication and showing unconditional love. Feeling loved, important and well liked has positive and negative effects on how a child perceives themselves. The child will feel important if the child feels well liked and loved by a person. Other important aspects are reasonable and age-appropriate expectations, feeding healthy foods and providing enough rest, giving clear instructions which may need to be repeated, looking for the causes of any misbehavior and making adjustments, and building routines. Children are helped by knowing what is happening in their lives. Having some predictability about their day without necessarily being regimental will help reduce frustration and misbehavior. Not only are the children taught to be open-minded, but the parents must demonstrate this as well.\n\nSimply giving the child spontaneous expressions of appreciation or acknowledgement when they are not misbehaving will act as a reinforcer for good behavior. Focusing on good behavior versus bad behavior will encourage appropriate behavior in the given situation. According to B. F. Skinner, past behavior that is reinforced with praise is likely to repeat in the same or similar situation.\n\nIn operant conditioning, schedules of reinforcement are an important component of the learning process. When and how often we reinforce a behavior can have a dramatic impact on the strength and rate of the response.\nA schedule of reinforcement is basically a rule stating which instances of a behavior will be reinforced. In some case, a behavior might be reinforced every time it occurs. Sometimes, a behavior might not be reinforced at all. Either positive reinforcement or negative reinforcement might be used, depending on the situation. In both cases, the goal of reinforcement is always to strengthen the behavior and increase the likelihood that it will occur again in the future.\nIn real-world settings, behaviors are probably not going to be reinforced each and every time they occur. For situations where you are purposely trying to train and reinforce an action, such as in the classroom, in sports or in animal training, you might opt to follow a specific reinforcement schedule. As you'll see below, some schedules are best suited to certain types of training situations. In some cases, training might call for starting out with one schedule and switching to another once the desired behavior has been taught.\n\n\nPositive reinforcement: Whenever he is being good, cooperative, solves things non-aggressively, immediately reward those behaviors with praise, attention, goodies.\n\nPunishment: If acting aggressively, give immediate, undesired consequence (send to corner; say \"NO!\" and couple with response cost).\n\nResponse cost: Most common would be \"time-out\". Removing sources of attention by placing in an environment without other people. Careful: This can become (aversive) punishment, depending on how done. To be response cost, it can only simply be taking away a desirable thing; not adding a negative one.\n\nNegative reinforcement: One example would be to couple negative reinforcement with response cost—after some period of time in which he has acted cooperatively or calmly while in the absence of others, can bring him back with others. Thus, taking away the isolation should reinforce the desired behavior (being cooperative).\n\nExtinction: Simply ignoring behaviors should lead to extinction. Note: that initially when ignored, can expect an initial increase in the behavior—a very trying time in situations such as a child that is acting out.\n\nIt is common for children who are otherwise ignored by their parents to turn to misbehavior as a way of seeking attention. An example is a child screaming for attention. Parents often inadvertently reward the bad behavior by immediately giving them the attention, thereby reinforcing it. On the other hand, parents may wait until the child calms down and speaks politely, then reward the more polite behavior with the attention.\n\nNatural consequences involve children learning from their own mistakes. In this method, the parent's job is to teach the child which behaviors are inappropriate. In order to do this, parents should allow the child to make a mistake and let them experience the natural results from their behavior. For instance, if a child forgets to bring his lunch to school, he will find himself hungry later. Using natural consequences would be indicative of the theory of accomplishment of natural growth, which is the parenting style of the working class and poor. The accomplishment of natural growth focuses on separation between children and family. Children are given directives and expected to carry them out without complaint or delay. Children are responsible for themselves during their free time, and the parent's main concern is caring for the children's physical needs. In order for this method to be effective the parents cannot shield their child from harm or from getting in trouble. They must allow for the mistake to occur in order for the child to learn the consequences. For example, a basic natural consequence is that if the child touches a hot pot he will get burned. The consequence is usually immediate, and the parent may have little control when protecting the child. However, the pain is the consequence of touching the pot which will teach the child to not do that again.\n\nSudbury model democratic schools, attended by children ages 4 to 19, claim that popularly based authority can maintain order more effectively than dictatorial authority for governments and schools alike.\n\nFurthermore, they emphasize that much more important than the externals of order is the question of the sources of internal discipline: how does an individual come to develop the inner strength and character that endows his life with order and coherence, an independent person appropriate to a free republic of co-equal citizens, capable of making decisions within a rational, self-consistent framework—a person treating and being treated with respect?\n\nThey affirm that the hallmark of the independent person is the ability to bear responsibility and since there is no way of teaching or training another person for self-sufficiency, there is no technique for obtaining or transmitting these traits. Hence, the only way a person becomes responsible for himself is for him to be responsible for himself, with no reservation or qualifications. Thence the need to permit children, at home and school, freedom of choice, freedom of action, and freedom to bear the results of action—the three great freedoms that constitute personal responsibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "32534667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32534667", "title": "Chip formation", "text": "Chip formation\n\nChip formation is part of the process of cutting materials by mechanical means, using tools such as saws, lathes and milling cutters. An understanding of the theory and engineering of this formation is an important part of the development of such machines and their cutting tools.\n\nThe formal study of chip formation was encouraged around World War II and shortly afterwards, with increases in the use of faster and more powerful cutting machines, particularly for metal cutting with the new high speed steel cutters. Pioneering work in this field was carried out by Kivima (1952) and Franz (1958).\n\nChip formation is usually described according to a three-way model developed by Franz. This model is best known within the field of machine tool design, although it is also used when an application area, such as woodworking, requires a vocabulary to describe chip formation in more detail than is usually attempted.\n\nThe first three chip types are the original characterisation, by Dr. Norman Franz. The type of chip that forms depends on many factors, of both tool and material. In general, main factors are the angle formed by the edge faces of the tool and also the angle at which this is presented to the surface.\n\nSharpness of the cutting tool does not usually define the \"type\" of chip, but rather the \"quality\" of the chip, and the clear distinctions between types. A blunt tool produces a degenerate chip that is large, torn and varies from one means of formation to another, often leaving behind a poor quality surface where this means changes.\n\nType I chips form when a material splits \"ahead\" of the cutting edge, owing to some upwards wedge action of the tool exceeding the \"tensile\" strength of the material, perpendicular to the surface. They are thus particularly important in fibrous materials, such as wood, where individual fibres are strong but they may be levered apart relatively easily. Type I chips generally form in cutting by tools with shallow cutting angles.\n\nType I chips may form long, continuous swarf, limited in size only by the length of cut.\n\nThis is the idealised chip formation for wood shavings, particularly those produced by a well-tuned plane with a finely adjusted mouth.\n\nType II chips form when a shearing force is produced by the wedge of the tool angle. The material fails along a short angled plane, from the apex of the tool edge, diagonally upwards and forwards to the surface. The material deforms along this line, forming an upward curling chip. These chips generally form from intermediate cutting angles.\n\nType II chips may form in ductile materials, such as metals.\n\nType II chips may also form long, continuous swarf.\n\nType III chips form a compression failure of the material, ahead of a relatively obtuse cutting angle, approaching 90°. In some weak or non-ductile materials this may form an acceptable chip, usually as a fine dust, but often it gives rise instead to a random \"snowplough\" effect where the waste material is bunched up ahead of the tool but not cleared decisively away as a well-formed chip.\n\nThis type of chip is formed by routers. It is also formed by woodworking scrapers, although when properly sharpened and used, these form such a thin Type III chip that it instead appears as a well-formed Type II chip. Their waste chip is thin enough that the compression failure volume is small enough to act as for the well-defined shear plane of the Type II.\nThis type was characterised later, by William McKenzie (1960).\n"}
{"id": "5075324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075324", "title": "Collectionwise Hausdorff space", "text": "Collectionwise Hausdorff space\n\nIn mathematics, in the field of topology, a topological space is said to be collectionwise Hausdorff if given any closed discrete collection of points in the topological space, there are pairwise disjoint open sets containing the points. A \"closed discrete\" set \"S\" of a topology \"X\" is one where every point of \"X\" has a neighborhood that intersects at most one point from \"S\". Every T1 space which is collectionwise Hausdorff is also Hausdorff.\n\nMetrizable spaces are collectionwise normal spaces and are hence, in particular, collectionwise Hausdorff.\n"}
{"id": "3709180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3709180", "title": "Condition of possibility", "text": "Condition of possibility\n\nCondition of possibility (\"Bedingungen der Möglichkeit\") is a philosophical concept made popular by Immanuel Kant.\n\nA condition of possibility is a necessary framework for the possible appearance of a given list of entities. It is often used in contrast to the unilateral causality concept, or even to the notion of interaction. For example, consider a cube made by an artisan. All cubes are three-dimensional. If an object is three-dimensional, then it is an extended object. But extension is an impossibility without space. Therefore, space is a condition of possibility because it is a necessary condition for the existence of cubes to be possible. Note, however, that space did not cause the cube, but that the artisan did, and that the cube and space are distinct entities, so space isn’t part of the definition of cube.\n\nFoucault would come to adapt it in a historical sense through the concept of \"episteme\":\n"}
{"id": "19826988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19826988", "title": "Courtesy book", "text": "Courtesy book\n\nA courtesy book or book of manners was a book dealing with issues of etiquette, behaviour and morals, with a particular focus on the life at princely courts. Courtesy literature can be traced back to 13th century German and Italian writers.\n\nCourtesy books formed part of the didactic literature of the Middle Ages, covering topics from religion and ethics to social awareness and social conduct. While firmly normative in their bent, they also showed an awareness of the human realities that did not fit neatly under the rubric of their precepts. Such books appealed both to an aristocratic readership and to aspiring urban middle classes.\n\nThe oldest known courtesy book from Germany is the mid-thirteenth century \"Tannhäuser\" Book of Manners.\n\nAnother of the oldest known courtesy books of Germany, is the learning-poems of \"Winsbecke\" and \"Winsbeckin\", written around 1220 by an anonymous author. \n\nThe oldest known courtesy book from Italy is the 1215/16 \"Der Wälsche Gast\" by Thomasin von Zirclaere, speaking to a German audience.\n\nThe Renaissance saw the re-emergence of urban civilisation in the Italian city-states, drawing on the earlier urban civilizations of ancient Greece and Rome, but developing new ideals of manners and courtesy. Three sixteenth century Italian texts on courtly manners and morals – Baldassarre Castiglione's \"Il Cortegiano\" (1528); Giovanni della Casa's \"Il Galateo\" (1558) and Stefano Guazzo's \"La Civil Conversazione\" (1574) in four volumes – had an especially wide influence both south and north of the Alps. Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, apparently had at his bedside three books: the Bible, Nicolò Machiavelli's \"The Prince\", and \"Il Cortegiano\" (\"The Courtier \"). Through Castiglione's writings, the Italian ideals of Neo-Platonism, beauty and symmetry, and the amateur author, reached a wide humanist audience, as did the new Italianate emphasis on the self in society and the importance of social appearances.\n\nThe norms for personal boundaries and social proxemics established by figures such as della Casa still influence the Western world almost a half millennium later.\n\nIn 1561, Thomas Hoby published \"The Courtyer\", his translation of \"Il Cortegiano\", (although he had made the translation a decade earlier). The work was read widely and influenced the writings of Shakespeare, Edmund Spenser and Ben Jonson. Robert Peterson's translation of \"Il Galateo\" appeared in 1576. George Pettie translated the first three books of Guazzo's work into \"The Civil Conversation\" in 1581; the fourth and last volume from \"La Civil Conversazione\" appeared five years later in a translation by Bartholomew Yonge. \n\nA well-known English example of the genre is Henry Peacham's \"The Compleat Gentleman\" of 1622.\n\nCourtesy books continued to be written into the 1700s, the last traditional English one being Lord Chesterfield's \"Letters to His Son\" – memorably described by Samuel Johnson as teaching \"the morals of a whore and the manners of a dancing-master\". However they took on a new form in the fiction of the time, much of it (like the work of Sir Charles Grandison) filling a similar normative role.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453596", "title": "Critique", "text": "Critique\n\nCritique is a method of disciplined, systematic study of a written or oral discourse. Although critique is commonly understood as fault finding and negative judgment, it can also involve merit recognition, and in the philosophical tradition it also means a methodical practice of doubt. The contemporary sense of critique has been largely influenced by the Enlightenment critique of prejudice and authority, which championed the emancipation and autonomy from religious and political authorities.\n\nThe term \"critique\" derives, via French, from Ancient Greek (), meaning \"the faculty of judgment\", that is, discerning the value of persons or things. Critique is also known as major logic, as opposed to minor logic or dialectics.\n\nPhilosophy is the application of critical thought, and is the disciplined practice of processing the \"theory/praxis problem\". In philosophical contexts, such as law or academics, critique is most influenced by Kant's use of the term to mean a reflective examination of the validity and limits of a human capacity or of a set of philosophical claims. This has been extended in modern philosophy to mean a systematic inquiry into the conditions and consequences of a concept, a theory, a discipline, or an approach and/or attempt to understand the limitations and validity of that. A \"critical perspective\", in this sense, is the opposite of a dogmatic one. Kant wrote:\n\nLater thinkers such as Hegel used the word 'critique' in a broader way than Kant's sense of the word, to mean the systematic inquiry into the limits of a doctrine or \"set\" of concepts. This referential expansion led, for instance, to the formulation of the idea of social critique, such as arose after Karl Marx's theoretical work delineated in his Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy (1859), which was a critique of the then-current models of economic theory and thought of that time. Further critique can then be applied after the fact, by using thorough critique as a basis for new argument. The idea of \"critique\" is elemental to legal, aesthetic, and literary theory and such practices, such as in the analysis and evaluation of writings such as pictorial, musical, or expanded textual works.\n\nIn French, German, or Italian, no distinction is drawn between 'critique' and 'criticism': the two words both translate as \"critique\", \"Kritik\", and \"critica\", respectively. In the English language, according to philosopher Gianni Vattimo, \"criticism\" is used more frequently to denote literary criticism or art criticism, that is the interpretation and evaluation of literature and art; while \"critique\" may be used to refer to more general and profound writing as Kant's \"Critique of pure reason\". Another proposed distinction is that critique is never personalized nor ad hominem, but is instead the analyses of the structure of the thought in the content of the item critiqued. This analysis then offers by way of the critique method either a rebuttal or a suggestion of further expansion upon the problems presented by the topic of that specific written or oral argumentation. Even authors that believe there might be a distinction suggest that there is some ambiguity that is still unresolved.\n\nMarx's work inspired the 'Frankfurt School' of critical theory, now best exemplified in the work of Jürgen Habermas. This, in turn, helped inspire the cultural studies form of social critique, which treats cultural products and their reception as evidence of wider social ills such as racism or gender bias. Social critique has been further extended in the work of Michel Foucault and of Alasdair MacIntyre. In their different and radically contrasting ways, MacIntyre and Foucault go well beyond the original Kantian meaning of the term \"critique\" in contesting legitimatory accounts of social power.\n\n"}
{"id": "11739145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11739145", "title": "Crown Fountain", "text": "Crown Fountain\n\nCrown Fountain is an interactive work of public art and video sculpture featured in Chicago's Millennium Park, which is located in the Loop community area. Designed by Catalan artist Jaume Plensa and executed by Krueck and Sexton Architects, it opened in July 2004. The fountain is composed of a black granite reflecting pool placed between a pair of glass brick towers. The towers are tall, and they use light-emitting diodes (LEDs) to display digital videos on their inward faces. Construction and design of the \"Crown Fountain\" cost $17 million. The water operates from May to October, intermittently cascading down the two towers and spouting through a nozzle on each tower's front face.\n\nResidents and critics have praised the fountain for its artistic and entertainment features. It highlights Plensa's themes of dualism, light, and water, extending the use of video technology from his prior works. Its use of water is unique among Chicago's many fountains, in that it promotes physical interaction between the public and the water. Both the fountain and Millennium Park are highly accessible because of their universal design.\n\n\"Crown Fountain\" has been one of the most controversial of all the Millennium Park features. Before it was even built, some were concerned that the sculpture's height violated the aesthetic tradition of the park. After construction, surveillance cameras were installed atop the fountain, which led to a public outcry (and their quick removal).\n\nHowever, the fountain has survived its contentious beginnings to find its way into Chicago pop culture. It is a popular subject for photographers and a common gathering place. While some of the videos displayed are of scenery, most attention has focused on its video clips of local residents. The fountain is a public play area and offers people an escape from summer heat, allowing children to frolic in the fountain's water.\n\nGrant Park, which is between Lake Michigan and the central business district, is commonly called \"Chicago's Front Yard\". Its northwest corner had been Illinois Central rail yards and parking lots until 1997, when it was made available for development by the city as Millennium Park. Millennium Park was conceived in 1998 as the capstone of Grant Park, to celebrate the new millennium and to feature world-renowned architects, artists, designers, landscape architects, and urban planners. As of 2007, Millennium Park trails only Navy Pier as a Chicago tourist attraction. The fountain is centrally located in Chicago: it is east of Michigan Avenue and its Historic Michigan Boulevard District, north of Monroe Street and the Art Institute of Chicago; and south of Madison Street. Looking north from the fountain, viewers see some of the tallest buildings in the United States (Aon Center, Two Prudential Plaza, and One Prudential Plaza).\n\nIn December 1999, Lester Crown and his family agreed to sponsor a water feature in Millennium Park. Unlike other park feature sponsors, the Crowns acted independently of Millennium Park officials; they conducted independent surveys of water technologies, held their own informal design contest, and stayed active in the design and engineering of the project.\n\nThe Crowns were open-minded about the choice of artist; wanting a modern work, they solicited proposals from a list of prospective artists and architects. Jaume Plensa researched the traditions and history of fountains and studied anthropomorphism in fountain imagery. Some of his early ideas for the project referenced Buckingham Fountain, but these were soon abandoned. His presentation to the Crown family started with a slide show of fountains from the Middle Ages through the 20th century. Plensa focused on the philosophical meanings associated with fountains, their history, use and art. His presentation included computer animation of facial expressions. The other finalists were Maya Lin, who presented a low-height horizontal form, and Robert Venturi, who presented a fountain that would have been tall. In January 2000, Plensa won the commission to design the fountain over Lin and Venturi. The installation is a video sculpture, commissioned to operate thirty years. \n\nPrior to \"Crown Fountain\", Plensa's dominant theme had been dualism, which he had expanded to artworks in which the viewers are outside, and the visible subjects of the art are inside containers and hollow spaces. In the 1990s, he completed several outdoor sculptures in which he explored the use of light (\"The Star of David\" (1998) at Stockholm's Raoul Wallenberg Square, \"Bridge of Light\" (1998) in Jerusalem), and LED technology, video, and computer design (\"Gläserne Seele & Mr. Net\" in Brandenburg (1999–2000)). In his public art, Plensa challenged himself to involve the viewer with his art, which led to his conception of the \"Crown Fountain\". His objective was to create a socially relevant, interactive fountain for the 21st century. Since water is the focus of a fountain, and since Chicago, and especially Millennium Park, is so greatly affected by the nearby waterfront, Plensa sought to create an eternal water work to complement the local natural inspirations. Because of the colder winters common to the climate of Chicago, Plensa created a fountain that would remain vibrant when the water was inactive in the wintertime, so the fountain is an experience of light themes and the use of video technology.\n\nPlensa explores dualism with \"Crown Fountain\", where he has two randomly selected faces \"conversing\" with each other. Plensa feels that by using faces, he can represent the diversity of the city both in ethnicity and in age. The artist intends to portray the sociocultural evolution of the city by updating the collection of images. His representation has become a part of the city's pop culture; the first few episodes of the first season of \"Prison Break\" featured shots of the fountain.\n\nPlensa feels that the challenge in the creation of successful work of public art is to integrate the viewer into an interactive relationship with the art. The fountain is known for encouraging its visitors to splash and slide in the reflecting pool, jostle for position under the water spout and place themselves under the cascade. This interactivity was to some degree accidental. Although the city planned for some interactivity, the transformation of the fountain into a water park for kids within hours of opening surprised Plensa. Now, when the National Weather Service issues summer heat advisories and the Governor of Illinois declares state office buildings as official daytime cooling centers, the national press points to \"Crown Fountain\" as a respite for inhabitants of the Chicago metropolitan area.\n\nApproximately 75 ethnic, social, and religious Chicago organizations were asked to provide candidates whose faces would be photographed for integration into the fountain. The subjects were chosen from local schools, churches and community groups, and filming began in 2001 at the downtown campus of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago (SAIC). The SAIC students filmed their subjects with a $100,000 high-definition HDW-F900 video camera, the same model used in the production of the three \"Star Wars\" prequels. About 20 SAIC students took part in what became an informal master's course in public art for the project. Faculty from Columbia College Chicago was also involved in the production of the video. The high-definition equipment was used because of the scale of the project. Because the image proportions were like a movie screen with a width far exceeding its height, the camera was turned on its side during filming.\n\nEach face appears on the sculpture for a total of 5 minutes using various parts of individual 80-second videos. A 40-second section is played at one-third speed forward and backward, running for a total of 4 minutes. Then, there is a subsequent segment, where the mouth is puckering, that is stretched to 15 seconds. This is followed by a section, in which the water appears to spout from the open mouth, that is stretched to last for 30 seconds. Finally, there is a smile after the completion of the water spouting from the mouth, that is slowed to extend for 15 seconds. Of the original 1,051 subjects filmed, 960 videos were determined to be usable for the project. Originally, the set of images was presumed to be the beginning of a work in progress, but as of 2009 no additional videos are planned.\n\nTo achieve the effect in which water appears to be flowing from subjects' mouths, each video has a segment where the subject's lips are puckered, which is then timed to correspond to the spouting water, reminiscent of gargoyle fountains. Each face is cropped so that no hair and usually no ears are visible. Since there is no tripod designed for cameras turned on their sides, an adjustable barber/dentist's chair was used to minimize the need for the movement of the state-of-the-art camera during filming. Nonetheless, in some case, digital manipulation was necessary to properly simulate puckering in the exact proper location on the video. Many of the faces had to be stretched in order to get the mouths properly positioned. Additionally, each video was color-corrected for brightness, contrast and color saturation. Both the playback equipment and the final videos had to be further adjusted to account for sunlight during viewing.\n\nThe Crown family, for whom the fountain is named, donated $10 million of the $17 million construction and design cost. The Goodman family, known for funding the Goodman Theatre, was also a large contributor; the entire $17 million cost was provided by private donations. The initial proposed cost for the fountain had been $15 million.\n\nAfter two architectural firms refused the contract to make Plensa's design a reality, the firm Krueck and Sexton Architects accepted. Public art was a departure from Krueck & Sexton's residential and corporate office-dominated portfolio, which includes buildings like the Spertus Institute. Collaboration between the artist, architectural team, and consultants proved to be crucial to the success of the project. The fountain's black granite reflecting pool measures and has an approximate water depth of . It displays videos on two LED screens, each encapsulated in a glass brick tower measuring . The firm designed a special stainless steel T-frame both to bear the load of the walls, which are high, and to withstand lateral wind forces. The frame holds all the glass blocks and transfers the load to the base in a zigzag pattern. Rods measuring in diameter anchor to the structure and project into the frame for lateral stability, while triangular corner brackets add support.\n\nAfter several dozen glass manufacturing firms were interviewed, L. E. Smith Glass Company emerged as the company to produce 22,500 glass blocks near the upper limit of the size of press glass formed from hand-poured molten glass and cast iron molds. The process used sand and soda ash heated to a temperature of and \"gathered\" with a large clay ball resembling a honey dipper. Rather than use a standard plunger to ensure the glass that sagged off the rod spread to the corners of the mold, they relied on gravity. The full mold was annealed (reheated in an oven to ) and cooled. Over the course of four months of production, about 350 blocks were produced per day.\n\nThe glass was custom-made at a factory in Mount Pleasant, Pennsylvania, and shipped to the structural glass panel manufacturer in Melbourne, Florida. The panels were then shipped by truck to Chicago. The glass is white glass, rather than the usual green glass that results from iron impurities. This has the tradeoff of increased image clarity, but greater dirt visibility. Each block is with glass thin enough to avoid image distortion. On each block, one of the six faces is polished, and the other five surfaces are textured.\n\nThe structure for the blocks was a challenge. At first, the design team had considered switching to plastic blocks, until the team found Circle Redmont Inc., a prefabricated glass panel company in Melbourne, Florida which specializes in structural glass panel systems. Circle Redmont came up with the plan of turning grates on their sides to be used as building elements. The individual grids are tall and either or wide with cell capacity of an average of 250 blocks. Each tower is composed of 44 grids stacked and welded. The combination of the refraction of the glass and the thinness of the metal make the grid virtually invisible.\n\nThe fountain uses per hour, 97% of which is recycled back into the system. Getting the water to the spout took ingenuity. Although consideration was given to omitting a LED tile, it was determined that the images would then look as though they were each missing a tooth. Instead, one tile in each tower is recessed about to allow the installation of clear tubing for the water nozzle. The water regularly spills over the fountain and down the sides of the towers and intermittently spouts from the nozzle. Two essential custom fittings contribute to the artistic vision of the fountain: a custom glass block at the upper edge for guiding the water's descent while remaining unobtrusive, and a plastic nozzle fitted to the stainless steel frame to control the rate of water flow and reduce liability to the city for any injuries sustained by the fountain's interactive participants. The interactive participants are usually children playing in the stream from the water spout or under the cascade. The risk that the spouting water would knock people down made the design both a legal and a physical challenge.\nThe fountains use over one million LEDs. The inner surface of each tower uses 147 smaller screens with a total of 264,480 LED points (each with two red, one blue and two green LEDs). The physical demands of LED screens, in particular the red, green, and blue long-life light bulbs and the requisite circuitry, created three major challenges: supporting the physical structure, combating heat buildup, and optimizing perceptibility of the display. Plensa had used LED fixtures on previous projects, and thus had some experience with these issues. The LED structure is not supported as a single wall (which would be high), but rather as several segments that are noticeable as visible horizontal bands every few feet: these show where the LED equipment is supported. The heat generated is handled by fans that cool the air at the bottom, that then works its way through the chimney-like tower. Perceptibility was determined to be optimal with LED lights behind the glass.\n\nLEDs were chosen because they were viewed as the lowest maintenance option of the possible color changing fixtures. LEDs fit into an electrical circuit, causing illumination by the movement of electrons in the semiconductor material and making a filament unnecessary, so the bulbs never burn out and do not get too hot. Fins were added to the screens to keep direct sunlight from hitting the LEDs. Color Kinetics (now part of Philips Solid-State Lighting Solutions, which is now called Philips Color Kinetics) ColorBlast 12 LEDs fixtures are used to illuminate the tower structures and glass in an attempt to meet Plensa's objective that the towers have a light and translucent appearance, with their internal structures reflecting light from behind the glass surface. The electronics were designed to be adaptable to the time of day, weather and season and to meet the desired century-long longevity and dependability objectives set by the design team in response to the thirty-year directive.\n\nThe pool used pavers that weigh . The pavers were rested on screw jack pedestals in order to be leveled and shimmed. The pavers had to be perfectly leveled for the water to work correctly because the fountain incorporates numerous sensors to regulate the flow and level of the water.\n\nDuring construction the underground parking garage remained open. An additional challenge was designing the structure to facilitate interior access for ongoing maintenance and repairs, while accommodating two levels of underground parking underneath. The challenge was solved by combining a T-bar grid to absorb weight with about 150 \"outriggers\", or \"tiebacks\", inserted through the video wall to support the glass blocks and absorb wind loads. This design allows for the removal of individual glass blocks for cleaning or repair without disruption to the display. The filtered air inside the towers helps minimize the need for cleaning. \"Crown Fountain\"'s design not only included interior access for technical repairs, but also incorporated exemplary, non-discriminatory, barrier-free accessibility, because its interactivity is not limited to the able-bodied. The force of the water accounts for the entire range of possible interactive visitors.\n\nConstruction of the video sculpture was completed for testing without the fountain's water features on May 18, 2004. Originally, Plensa had planned to have each face appear for 13 minutes, and this continued to be the targeted duration when the testing of the sculpture occurred. Eventually, professors at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago convinced him to use only five-minute videos.\n\nPlensa's design of \"Crown Fountain\" was unveiled to the public on July 16–18, during the 2004 grand opening celebrations for Millennium Park. At the time of the unveiling, \"Crown Fountain\", like the nearby \"Cloud Gate\", was incomplete because only 300 of the videos had been refined for public display. It was officially dedicated on July 24, 2004 as part of a special private fundraising party that raised $3 million for the Millennium Park Conservancy fund.\n\nThe control center for the synchronization of images, water flow, and lighting color and intensity is beneath one of the towers, in a room that covers . The room houses high-definition video servers and equipment temperature sensors. Hard drives contain all the individual electronic computer files of the face videos. Generally, the computer programs automatically perform tasks such as determining when the face will pucker and, if weather conditions permit, when to turn the water on and off. Using low- rather than high-resolution images was both less expensive and created a better display for the average viewer. A Barco show controller selects the sequence of faces one at a time and determines a random tower lighting selection of one of eight LED colors programmed into an Electronic Theatre Controls (ETC) Emphasis control system. At night, the ETC system controls spotlights that illuminate the cascading water and that are dimmed by special wet-use location ground fault circuit interrupters. The control room covers an area equal to 26 parking spaces in the underground parking garage, which costs the city $100,000 annually in terms of the opportunity cost of lost revenue (in 2004 dollars). Maintenance issues for the fountain range from kids removing the adhesive between the bricks to pipes in need of maintenance. , annual upkeep costs were approximately $400,000. Typically, the fountain's water features function between mid-spring and mid-fall, but the images remain on the screen year-round.\n\nThe front face of each tower is animated with a continuous, dynamic exhibit of lights and electronic images. Although the screens on the towers periodically display clips of landscapes such as waterfalls, most intriguing are the display of faces of Chicago residents. About 1,000 faces of Chicagoans are shown in a random rotation, the order determined using a Barco show controller. Each face is displayed for five minutes, with a brief period between each of these videos during which the sculpture is unlit. As a result, no more than 12 faces appear per hour during the summer. However, during the winter a version without the final one minute of puckering is shown, so the video segments then are only four minutes each. The video pattern also includes a three-minute water scene every half-hour and a 30-second fade-to-black every 15 minutes. If all the faces were shown consecutively, instead of randomly, they would each appear about once every eight days. A June 2007 article in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" reported that many of the subjects who had their images digitized for the project had yet to either see their own images or hear of anyone who had seen them.\nThe spouting water from the faces of the towers appears to be flowing from the displayed subject's mouth from a nozzle located in the center of each interior face above the reflecting pool. Images are shown daily year-round, while the water feature only operates from May 1 to approximately October 31, weather permitting. The park is open to the public daily from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m.\n\nEach tower is illuminated from within on three sides by approximately 70 color-changing Color Kinetics LED lighting fixtures per tower, while the fourth side features opposing Barco LED display screens. At night, some of the videos are replaced by images of nature or solid colors. Also at night, the other three sides of the fountain display changing colors. The outer Color Kinetics surfaces randomly display the translucent glow of one of eight colors along with each of the inner opposing faces. As a video sculpture with a variety of cascade and water spout fountain modes, the sculpture is a fluid, dynamic evolving artwork.\n\n\"Crown Fountain\" has both slits and a grate for drainage (pictured above right) to drain the of water per minute. When the videos are not on the front of the tower, water cascades down each of the facades. The water is filtered, pumped and recirculated through the fountain. Dual pump rooms below each tower draw water from a reservoir beneath the reflecting pool. There are 12 mechanical pumps that are regulated from a control room in the underground parking garage beneath the south tower of the fountain. The water in the reflecting pool has a depth of about .\n\nBefore the fountain was completed in 2004, Art Institute of Chicago president James Wood felt the columns would be too tall and other community leaders felt that the height and scale of the project stemmed from a \"pissing contest\" with other park feature artists. Grant Park has been protected since 1836 by \"forever open, clear and free\" legislation that has been affirmed by four previous Illinois Supreme Court rulings. Aaron Montgomery Ward twice sued the city of Chicago in the 1890s to force it to remove buildings and structures from Grant Park, and to keep it from building new ones. As a result, the city has what are termed the Montgomery Ward height restrictions on buildings and structures in Grant Park. However, \"Crown Fountain\" and Jay Pritzker Pavilion, which stands tall, were exempt from the height restriction because they were classified as works of art and not buildings or structures.\n\nIn November 2006, \"Crown Fountain\" became the focus of a public controversy when the city added surveillance cameras atop each tower. Purchased through a $52 million Department of Homeland Security grant to the Chicago area, the cameras were part of a surveillance system augmenting eight other cameras covering all of Millennium Park. The city said the cameras, similar to those used throughout the city at high-crime areas and traffic intersections, were intended to remain on the towers for several months until permanent, less intrusive replacements were secured. City officials had consulted the architects who collaborated with Plensa on the tower designs, but Plensa himself had not been notified. Public reaction was negative, as bloggers and the artistic community decried the cameras on the towers as inappropriate and a blight. The city said that the cameras were largely for security reasons, but also partly to help park officials monitor burnt-out lights. The \"Chicago Tribune\" quickly published an article concerning the cameras as well as the public reaction, and the cameras were removed the next day. Plensa supported their removal.\n\nIn 2014, the hardware and software behind the fountain's operation were replaced. At the time there were plans to replace LED lighting with incandescent bulbs on each of the non-video display surfaces and to replace the video surface LEDs. Plensa, who maintained control of the video faces for the first two years of the fountain's operation, understands that future generations may wish to update the faces used in the rotation of videos to reflect changes in humanity going forward. In 2014, an additional 1000 faces were anticipated for 2016.\n\n\"Crown Fountain\", \"Trevi Fountain\", and \"Buckingham Fountain\", as well as natural water features such as Old Faithful, are examples of the ability of water to attract people and hold their attention. \"Crown Fountain\" has more interactivity than other Chicago fountains, such as \"Buckingham Fountain\" and Lorado Taft's \"Fountain of the Great Lakes\" and \"Fountain of Time\" (all but the last are in Grant Park). These other Chicago fountains are traditional in that they discourage viewer touching; \"Buckingham Fountain\" is surrounded by a fence, and Taft's fountains are surrounded by moats. In contrast, \"Crown Fountain\" provides an open invitation to play in the fountain's water.\n\"U.S. News & World Report\" describes the fountain as an exemplary feature of the city's numerous urban parks. \"Chicago Tribune\" architecture critic Blair Kamin, who is pleased with the sculptures' verticalness, says the fountain helps appropriately depict the modern 21st-century urban park. The \"Chicago Sun-Times\" describes the fountain as \"eye-catching, crowd-friendly ... high-tech [and] ... contemporary\". The \"New York Times\" calls the fountain an \"extraordinary art object\". \"Frommer's\" describes the fountain as public art at its best. The beauty of the fountain is, as the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" explains, that it is high-concept art for all to enjoy. The \"Financial Times\" refers to the fountain as a \"techno-fountain\". The fountain is praised for its technical features by industry magazines and has won various awards. The project won the 2006 Bombay Sapphire prize for its design work with glass. Critical reviews were not unanimous in their praise. One \"Chicago Tribune\" critic was not impressed with JumboTron-like art, although he conceded the participatory element reminded him in a positive way of the jungle gym element of the \"Chicago Picasso\".\n\nThe fountain is featured on the cover of Philip Jodidio's 2005 book, \"Architecture: Art\". Although Plensa is considered to be a conceptual artist, according to Jodidio, Plensa created a work whose architectural aspects are paramount. Its location juxtaposed with the Historic Michigan Boulevard District's skywall highlights these aspects. Jodidio considers the work to be a modernization of the gargoyle theme, and feels that the scale of the enlarged faces humanize the work and challenges the architecture. The towers are an integral part of the skyline that have achieved rare permanence for contemporary art.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24340653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24340653", "title": "East–West dichotomy", "text": "East–West dichotomy\n\nIn sociology, the East–West dichotomy is the perceived difference between the Eastern and Western worlds. Cultural rather than geographical in division, the boundaries of East and West are not fixed, but vary according to the criteria adopted by individuals using the term. Historically, Asia (excluding Siberia) was regarded as the East, and Europe was regarded as the West. Today, the \"West\" usually refers to Australasia, Europe, and America. Used in discussing such studies as management, economics, international relations, and linguistics, the concept is criticized for overlooking regional hybridity.\n\nConceptually, the boundaries are cultural, rather than geographical, as a result of which Australia is typically grouped in the \nWest (despite being geographically in the east), while Islamic nations are, regardless of location, grouped in the East. However, there are a few Muslim-majority regions in Europe which do not fit this dichotomy. The culture line can be particularly difficult to place in regions of cultural diversity such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose citizens may themselves identify as East or West depending on ethnic or religious background. Further, residents of different parts of the world perceive the boundaries differently; for example, some European scholars define Russia as East, but most agree that it is the West's second complementary part, and Islamic nations regard it and other predominantly Christian nations as the West. Another unanswered question is whether Siberia (North Asia) is \"Eastern\" or \"Western.\"\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, there were many different types of civilizations that were comparable in some ways, but contrast each other in other ways. The Eastern civilizations and empires of the West are not comparable because of social class system, the way of making money and leadership. Special jobs for the people caused the rift between the East and West to grow, it was the difference between feudalism and the Eastern social system, the difference between trade and agriculture and the difference between the stability of government. The West and the Eastern Civilizations are not only different because of where they are, but also because of their social class system, the way of making money and leadership. \n\nThe daily life of the common people in the West and the Eastern Civilizations differed greatly based on how their society was run, and what it was focused on. One of the major differences between the West and the Eastern Civilizations was feudalism and manorialism. They both shaped the social hierarchy and the overall life of the common person in the East. The manorial system was set up with a lord at the top who owned a large amount of land. He had serfs and peasants that he employed, the peasants in exchange for the land they got, for working, paid a rent of crop to the lord. This feudal society was every man for himself and did not help in the expansion of a civilization. \n\nThe social system of the West and East were different. Mongolia rose from nomadic tribes united by Genghis Khan. He conquered much of the surrounding land and created a large empire. They would give the defenders a choice to either join them or die. This brutal mentality was shown when they conquered the vast majority of Asia and some of Europe and the Middle East. One thing that set the Tang dynasty of China apart was their increased social mobility. They had a series of tests that could be taken to better social status. Instead of the high-ranking positions being exclusively for the aristocrats, they were easier for the poor to gain access to. In the West, it was harder to move up or down in the social classes, but in Eastern Civilizations, mobility was possible. In China, it was possible to move up in social status through tests and, in Mongolia it was possible to gain rank in the army through military skill because the society was based on its military prowess.\n\nThe West and the Eastern civilizations differed politically because the common people of the East were not always content with their leadership. While the West had many rulers in a short period of time, there was no unrest with the people. Eastern civilizations had rebellions and long gaps between rulers that caused unrest. In England, there was a major war for the throne that lasted for almost a century. During a major war in the 14th and 15th century, England had many struggles for the throne that lead to much bloodshed. France also had problems in their government. Throughout all of this, England was still able to fight the French and almost win in the Hundred Years War. In Eastern civilizations the government was not always stable. In China, one of the deadliest events in human history occurred during the Tang dynasty. The An Lushan Rebellion was very bloody and shows the instability in the Chinese government.\n\nEconomically, the West and the Eastern civilizations were drastically different because of how they acquired money. In China, one of the major economic factors was the trade. They were connected to Europe with the Silk Road, this was a series of trade routes from East Asia to Europe. The Silk Road was not only used to trade goods, it was also a place for trading ways of thought or religion. The English employed a special type of feudalism called bastard feudalism. This type of feudalism, prominent in the War of the Roses, was different from regular feudalism because it introduces money into the social hierarchy. Nobles could now pay their knights for their service in money instead of giving them land. This strengthened the feudal system because if there was a weak ruler, the strong government of the new nobles would support the people. The British nobles also created the Magna carta to reduce the kings power. This monetization of the class system changed how England was ruled and made it very different from the Eastern Civilizations.\n\nThe concept has been used in both \"Eastern\" and \"Western\" nations. Japanese sinologist Tachibana Shiraki, in the 1920s, wrote of the need to unify Asia—East Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia but excluding Central Asia and the Middle East—and form a \"New East\" that might combine culturally in balancing against the West. Japan continued to make much of the concept, known as Pan-Asianism, throughout World War II, in propaganda. In China, it was encapsulated during the Cold War in a 1957 speech by Mao Zedong, who launched a slogan when he said, \"This is a war between two worlds. The West Wind cannot prevail over the East Wind; the East Wind is bound to prevail over the West Wind.\"\n\nTo Western writers, in the 1940s, it became bound up with an idea of aggressive, \"frustrated nationalism\", which was seen as \"intrinsically anti- or non-Western\"; sociologist Frank Furedi wrote, \"The already existing intellectual assessment of European nationalism adapted to the growth of the Third World variety by developing the couplet of mature Western versus immature Eastern nationalism... This East-West dichotomy became an accepted part of Western political theory.\" \n\nThe 1978 book \"Orientalism\", by Edward Said, was highly influential in further establishing concepts of the East–West dichotomy in the Western world, bringing into college lectures a notion of the East as \"characterized by religious sensibilities, familial social orders, and ageless traditions\" in contrast to Western \"rationality, material and technical dynamism, and individualism.\"\n\nMore recently, the divide has also been posited as an Islamic \"East\" and an American and European \"West.\" Critics note that an Islamic/non-Islamic East–West dichotomy is complicated by the global dissemination of Islamic fundamentalism and by cultural diversity within Islamic nations, moving the argument \"beyond that of an East-West dichotomy and into a tripartite situation.\"\n\nThe East–West dichotomy has been used in studying a range of topics, including management, economics and linguistics. \"Knowledge Creation and Management\" (2007) examines it as the difference in organizational learning between Western cultures and the Eastern world. It has been widely used in exploring the period of rapid economic growth that has been termed the \"East-Asian miracle\" in segments of East Asia, particularly the Asian Tigers, following World War II. Some sociologists, in line with the West as a model of modernity posited by Arnold J. Toynbee, have perceived the economic expansion as a sign of the \"Westernization\" of the region, but others look for explanation in cultural/racial characteristics of the East, embracing concepts of fixed Eastern cultural identity in a phenomenon described as \"New Orientalism\". Both approaches to the East-West dichotomy have been criticized for failing to take into account the historical hybridity of the regions.\n\nThe concept has also been brought to bear on examinations of intercultural communication. Asians are widely described as embracing an \"inductive speech pattern\" in which a primary point is approached indirectly, but Western societies are said to use \"deductive speech\" in which speakers immediately establish their point. That is attributed to a higher priority among Asians in harmonious interrelations, but Westerners are said to prioritize direct communication. 2001's \"Intercultural Communication: A Discourse Approach\" described the East–West dichotomy linguistically as a \"false dichotomy\", noting that both Asian and Western speakers use both forms of communication.\n\nIn addition to difficulties in defining regions and overlooking hybridity, the East–West dichotomy has been criticized for creating an artificial construct of regional unification that allows one voice to claim authority to speak for multitudes. In \"The Triumph of the East?\", Mark T. Berger speaks to the issue as relates to examination of the \"East-Asian miracle\": \nThe historical power of the East-West dichotomy, and the fixed conceptions of culture/race to which it is linked, have increasingly allowed the national elites of the region to speak not only for their 'nations,' but even for Asia and Asians... There are numerous instances of Western scholars, intent on challenging North American and/or Western hegemony in both material and discursive terms, ending up uncritically privileging the elite narratives of power-holders in Asia as authentic representatives of a particular non-Western nation or social formation (and also contributing to the continued use of the East-West dichotomy).\n\n\nBalancing the East, Upgrading the West; U.S. Grand Strategy in an Age of Upheaval by Zbigniew Brzezinski January/February 2012 Foreign Affairs\n"}
{"id": "1358246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358246", "title": "Embourgeoisement thesis", "text": "Embourgeoisement thesis\n\nEmbourgeoisement is the theory that posits the migration of individuals into the bourgeoisie as a result of their own efforts or collective action, such as that taken by unions in the US and elsewhere in the 1930s to the 1960s that established middle class status for factory workers and others that would not have been considered middle class by their employments, allowing increasing numbers of what might traditionally be classified as working-class people to assume the lifestyle and individualistic values of the so-called middle classes and hence reject commitment to collective social and economic goals. The opposite process is proletarianization. Sociologist John Goldthorpe disputed the embourgeoisement thesis in 1967.\nCharles E. Hurst \n\ndescribes this change to be a result of the post-industrialization of society, in which there are far fewer manual labor jobs, which is the main classification of blue-collar work. With post-industrialization, former upper-level blue-collar workers are moving to white-collar work because of the decreased availability and prestige of manual labor jobs. Even when their actual jobs do not change, their lifestyles based on their job situation often change into a lifestyle that according to Mayer and Buckley, more closely resembles the lower-middle class than the rest of the lower blue-collar workers. The result of this idea of embourgeoisement is that more people are incorporated into the middle-class. As a result, there is decreased class consciousness and declining working class solidarity\n\n. This in turn could lead to less group action among the lower class if trying to get more rights or changes within their job field. \nThe topic was widely discussed in academic circles in the 1960s following the publication of \"The Affluent Worker in the Class Structure\" by John H. Goldthorpe in 1963.\n\nThe situation in Great Britain at the time is described in the book \"Must Labour Lose?\", written by Mark Abrams and Richard Rose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42523481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42523481", "title": "Excisive triad", "text": "Excisive triad\n\nIn topology, a branch of mathematics, an excisive triad is a triple formula_1 of topological spaces such that \"A\", \"B\" are subspaces of \"X\" and \"X\" is the union of the interior of \"A\" and the interior of \"B\". Note \"B\" is not required to be a subspace of \"A\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1440536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1440536", "title": "Fact–value distinction", "text": "Fact–value distinction\n\nThe fact–value distinction is the distinction between things that can be known to be true and things that are the personal preferences of individuals.\n\nThe fact–value distinction emerged in philosophy in the Enlightenment. In particular, David Hume (1711–1776) argued that human beings are unable to ground normative arguments in positive arguments, that is, to derive \"ought\" from \"is\". Hume was a skeptic, and although a complex and dedicated philosopher, he shared a political viewpoint with early Enlightenment philosophers such as Thomas Hobbes (1588–1679) and John Locke (1632–1704). Specifically, Hume, at least to some extent, argued that religious and national hostilities that divided European society were based on unfounded beliefs. In effect, Hume contended that such hostilities are not found in nature, but are a human creation, depending on a particular time and place, and thus unworthy of mortal conflict.\n\nThe fact–value distinction is closely related to the naturalistic fallacy, a topic debated in ethical and moral philosophy. G. E. Moore believed it essential to all ethical thinking. However, contemporary philosophers like Phillipa Foot have called into question the validity of such assumptions. Others, such as Ruth Anna Putnam, argue that even the most \"scientific\" of disciplines are affected by the \"values\" of those who research and practice the vocation. Nevertheless, the difference between the naturalistic fallacy and the fact–value distinction is derived from the manner in which modern social science has used the fact–value distinction, and not the strict naturalistic fallacy to articulate new fields of study and create academic disciplines.\n\nThe fact–value distinction is also closely related to the moralistic fallacy, an invalid inference of factual conclusions from purely evaluative premises. For example, an invalid inference \"Because everybody ought to be equal, there are no innate genetic differences between people\" is an instance of the moralistic fallacy. As for the naturalistic fallacy one attempts to move from an \"is\" to an \"ought\" statement, with the moralistic fallacy one attempts to move from an \"ought\" to an \"is\" statement.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900) in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" said that a table of values hangs above every great people. Nietzsche points out that what is common among different peoples is the act of \"esteeming\", of creating values, even if the values are different from one people to the next. Nietzsche asserts that what made people great was not the content of their beliefs, but the act of valuing. Thus the values a community strives to articulate are not as important as the collective will to act on those values. The \"willing\" is more essential than the intrinsic worth of the goal itself, according to Nietzsche. \"A thousand goals have there been so far,\" says Zarathustra, \"for there are a thousand peoples. Only the yoke for the thousand necks is still lacking: the one goal is lacking. Humanity still has no goal.\" Hence, the title of the aphorism, \"On The Thousand And One Goals.\" The idea that one value-system is no more worthy than the next, although it may not be directly ascribed to Nietzsche, has become a common premise in modern social science. Max Weber and Martin Heidegger absorbed it and made it their own. It shaped their philosophical endeavor, as well as their political understanding.\n\nVirtually all modern philosophers affirm \"some\" sort of fact–value distinction, insofar as they distinguish between science and \"valued\" disciplines such as ethics, aesthetics, or the fine arts. However, philosophers such as Hilary Putnam argue that the distinction between fact and value is not as absolute as Hume envisioned. Philosophical pragmatists, for instance, believe that true propositions are those that are \"useful\" or \"effective\" in predicting future (empirical) states of affairs. Far from being value-free, the pragmatists' conception of truth or facts directly relates to an end (namely, empirical predictability) that human beings regard as \"normatively\" desirable. Other thinkers reject an absolutist fact–value distinction by contending that our senses are imbued with prior conceptualizations, making it impossible to have any observation that is totally value-free, which is how Hume and the later positivists conceived of facts.\n\nSeveral counterexamples have been offered by philosophers claiming to show that there are cases when an evaluative statement does indeed logically follow from a factual statement. A. N. Prior points out, from the statement \"He is a sea captain,\" it logically follows, \"He ought to do what a sea captain ought to do.\" Alasdair MacIntyre points out, from the statement \"This watch is grossly inaccurate and irregular in time-keeping and too heavy to carry about comfortably,\" the evaluative conclusion validly follows, \"This is a bad watch.\" John Searle points out, from the statement \"Jones promised to pay Smith five dollars,\" it logically follows that \"Jones ought to pay Smith five dollars.\" The act of promising by definition places the promiser under obligation.\n\nPhilippa Foot adopts a moral realist position, criticizing the idea that when evaluation is superposed on fact there has been a \"committal in a new dimension\". She introduces, by analogy, the practical implications of using the word \"injury\". Not just anything counts as an injury. There must be some impairment. When we suppose a man wants the things the injury prevents him from obtaining, haven’t we fallen into the old naturalist fallacy?\n\nFoot argues that the virtues, like hands and eyes in the analogy, play so large a part in so many operations that it is implausible to suppose that a committal in a non-naturalist dimension is necessary to demonstrate their goodness.\n\n"}
{"id": "928779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=928779", "title": "First principle", "text": "First principle\n\nA first principle is a basic, foundational, self-evident proposition or assumption that cannot be deduced from any other proposition or assumption. In philosophy, first principles are taught by Aristotelians, and nuanced versions of first principles are referred to as postulates by Kantians. In mathematics, first principles are referred to as axioms or postulates. In physics and other sciences, theoretical work is said to be from first principles, or \"ab initio\", if it starts directly at the level of established science and does not make assumptions such as empirical model and parameter fitting.\n\nIn a formal logical system, that is, a set of propositions that are consistent with one another, it is possible that some of the statements can be deduced from other statements. For example, in the syllogism, \"All men are mortal; Socrates is a man; Socrates is mortal\" the last claim can be deduced from the first two.\n\nA first principle is an axiom that cannot be deduced from any other within that system. The classic example is that of Euclid's Elements; its hundreds of geometric propositions can be deduced from a set of definitions, postulates, and common notions: all three types constitute first principles.\n\nIn philosophy \"first principles\" are also commonly referred to as \"a priori\" terms and arguments, which are contrasted to \"a posteriori\" terms, reasoning or arguments, in that the former are simply assumed and exist prior to the reasoning process and the latter are deduced or inferred after the initial reasoning process. First principles are generally treated in the realm of philosophy known as epistemology, but are an important factor in any metaphysical speculation. \n\nIn philosophy \"first principles\" are often somewhat synonymous with \"a priori\", datum and axiomatic reasoning.\n\nTerence Irwin writes:\nProfoundly influenced by Euclid, Descartes was a rationalist who invented the foundationalist system of philosophy. He used the \"method of doubt\", now called Cartesian doubt, to systematically doubt everything he could possibly doubt, until he was left with what he saw as purely indubitable truths. Using these self-evident propositions as his axioms, or foundations, he went on to deduce his entire body of knowledge from them. The foundations are also called \"a priori\" truths. His most famous proposition is \"Je pense, donc je suis.\" (\"I think, therefore I am\", or \"Cogito ergo sum\")\n\nDescartes describes the concept of a first principle in the following excerpt from the preface to the \"Principles of Philosophy\" (1644):\nIn physics, a calculation is said to be \"from first principles\", or \"ab initio\", if it starts directly at the level of established laws of physics and does not make assumptions such as empirical model and fitting parameters.\n\nFor example, calculation of electronic structure using Schrödinger's equation within a set of approximations that do not include fitting the model to experimental data is an \"ab initio\" approach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6482379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6482379", "title": "Frisch elasticity of labor supply", "text": "Frisch elasticity of labor supply\n\nThe Frisch elasticity of labor supply captures the elasticity of hours worked to the wage rate, given a constant marginal utility of wealth. In other words, the Frisch elasticity measures the substitution effect of a change in the wage rate on labor supply.\n\nIt is named after the economist Ragnar Frisch.\n\nUnder certain circumstances, a constant marginal utility of wealth implies a constant marginal utility of consumption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22751270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22751270", "title": "Illusory conjunctions", "text": "Illusory conjunctions\n\nIllusory conjunctions are psychological effects in which participants combine features of two objects into one object. There are visual illusory conjunctions, auditory illusory conjunctions, and illusory conjunctions produced by combinations of visual and tactile stimuli. Visual illusory conjunctions are thought to occur due to a lack of visual spatial attention, which depends on fixation and (amongst other things) the amount of time allotted to focus on an object. With a short span of time to interpret an object, blending of different aspects within a region of the visual field – like shapes and colors – can occasionally be skewed, which results in visual illusory conjunctions. For example, in a study designed by Anne Treisman and Schmidt participants were required to view a visual presentation of numbers and shapes in different colors. Some shapes were larger than others but all shapes and numbers were evenly spaced and shown for just 200 ms (followed by a mask). When the participants were asked to recall the shapes they reported answers such as a \"small green triangle\" instead of a \"small green circle\". If the space between the objects is smaller, illusory conjunctions occur more often.\n\nAlong with feature integration, the location of the perceived illusory object in vision is a combined result of the constituent objects' locations, but the similarity of the features is what increases the likelihood of an illusory conjunction. In order for an illusory conjunction to occur, the two objects that are not the focus of attention need to be within the visual field. The closer two objects are, the more likely the illusory conjunction is to occur. The increased likelihood of an illusory conjunction to occur when the objects are closer together may be due to a difference in processing compared with when the objects are more distant from each other. One theory supports that the decrease in illusory conjunctions with increased distance between objects is due to the use of bi-hemispheric input processing, making closer objects more likely to be conjoined because only one of the cerebral hemispheres sees and processes both objects that are involved in an illusory conjunction. Although proximity increases the likelihood of an illusory conjunction, illusory conjunctions formed between objects can occur even when the objects are distant, though still within the attentional field. When objects are outside of attention in order for an illusory conjunction to occur they must be adjacent to each other to combine features. Objects become more susceptible to illusory conjunction not only due to relation to each other, but also in relation to the density of objects in the attentional location. As the density of objects increases, there is more division of attention, which increases the possibility of forming of an illusory conjunction.\n\nIt has been suggested that research in support of illusory conjunctions is not adequate in terms of the methods used to analyze the data. If this criticism were found to be true, it would support the theory that illusory conjunctions are only illusions and nothing more. It has also been found in a few studies on visual illusory conjunctions that two objects that are not the focus of attention are also more likely to be combined when they are adjacent to each other. Although it would seem more common for objects to combine when they are not the focus of attention it is more likely for an illusory conjunction to occur when objects are the focus of attention. Visual illusory conjunctions can occur in long and brief exposure times along with the different levels of attention paid to the objects involved.\n\nIllusory conjunctions can also occur in memory. In vision, images can be combined through a lapse in memory of an image that is filled by physical stimuli Illusory conjunctions often occur through memory errors because the situations in which illusory conjunctions happen involve multiple tasks or tasks that commonly divide a person's attention. While memory errors can aid in the formation of illusory conjunctions their formation is not dependent on memory errors. These memory errors can be caused by a multitude of objects in a space increases the amount of things to be processed and stored to memory increases. This increase in objects creates a prime situation for memory to lapse and form an illusory conjunction. Illusory conjunctions in short term auditory memory occur also. When a set of tones is played in a sequence, illusory conjunctions of 'what' and 'when' can occur. For example, if a sequence of tones begins with the note C, and later includes the note C#, and the note C# is repeated at the end of the sequence, there is a tendency for listeners to assume erroneously that this last note had also been the first note in the sequence. Illusory conjunctions of pitch and duration in tone sequences also occur.\n\nAuditory illusory conjunctions occur either when two sounds are presented in different positions in space, but a single sound is heard, or when two different sounds are presented in different positions in space, but some of them are heard in the wrong spatial location. In the octave illusion, the listener is presented via earphones with a 20-second sequence consisting of two alternating tones that are an octave apart, and are repeatedly presented in alternation. The tones are 250 ms in duration. The same sequence is presented to the two ears, but when the right ear receives the high tone the left ear receives the low tone, and vice versa. Most listeners hear this sequence as a single tone that repeatedly changes both in pitch and in location. It has been suggested that time limitations contribute to this auditory illusory conjunction but see other explanations in terms of separate 'what' and 'where' pathways. In the scale illusion, the listener is presented via headphones with a scale with alternating tones switching from ear to ear. The scale is presented in both ascending and descending form, such that when a tone form the ascending scale is in the right ear, a tone from the descending scale is in the left ear. This gives rise to illusory conjunctions of pitch and location, such that all the higher tones are heard in one ear and all the lower tones in the other ear. Similar illusory conjunctions give rise to the chromatic illusion, the glissando illusion, and the cambiata illusion.\n\nIllusory conjunctions can also occur between vision and touch. This happens when a seen object is attributed to textures that someone is feeling. This phenomenon is also more common when only one of the cerebral hemispheres is perceiving and processing the visual and tactile stimuli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1036651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036651", "title": "Input–output model", "text": "Input–output model\n\nIn economics, an input–output model is a quantitative economic technique that represents the interdependencies between different branches of a national economy or different regional economies. Wassily Leontief (1906–1999) is credited with developing this type of analysis and earned the Nobel Prize in Economics for his development of this model.\n\nFrancois Quesnay had developed a cruder version of this technique called Tableau économique, and Léon Walras's work \"Elements of Pure Economics\" on general equilibrium theory also was a forerunner and made a generalization of Leontief's seminal concept.\n\nAlexander Bogdanov has been credited with originating the concept in a report delivered to the All Russia Conference on the Scientific Organisation of Labour and Production Processes, in January 1921. This approach was also developed by L. N. Kritsman and T. F. Remington, who has argued that their work provided a link between Quesnay's tableau économique and the subsequent contributions by Vladimir Groman and Vladimir Bazarov to Gosplan's method of material balance planning.\n\nWassily Leontief's work in the input-output model was influenced by the works of the classical economists Karl Marx and Jean Charles Léonard de Sismondi. Karl Marx's economics provided an early outline involving a set of tables where the economy consisted of two interlinked departments.\n\nLeontief was the first to use a matrix representation of a national (or regional) economy.\n\nThe model depicts inter-industry relationships within an economy, showing how output from one industrial sector may become an input to another industrial sector. In the inter-industry matrix, column entries typically represent inputs to an industrial sector, while row entries represent outputs from a given sector. This format therefore shows how dependent each sector is on every other sector, both as a customer of outputs from other sectors and as a supplier of inputs. Each column of the input–output matrix shows the monetary value of inputs to each sector and each row represents the value of each sector's outputs.\n\nSay that we have an economy with formula_1 sectors. Each sector produces formula_2 units of a single homogeneous good. Assume that the formula_3th sector, in order to produce 1 unit, must use formula_4 units from sector formula_5. Furthermore, assume that each sector sells some of its output to other sectors (intermediate output) and some of its output to consumers (final output, or final demand). Call final demand in the formula_5th sector formula_7. Then we might write\n\nor total output equals intermediate output plus final output. If we let formula_9 be the matrix of coefficients formula_4, formula_11 be the vector of total output, and formula_12 be the vector of final demand, then our expression for the economy becomes\n\nwhich after re-writing becomes formula_14. If the matrix formula_15 is invertible then this is a linear system of equations with a unique solution, and so given some final demand vector the required output can be found. Furthermore, if the principal minors of the matrix formula_15 are all positive (known as the Hawkins–Simon condition), the required output vector formula_11 is non-negative.\n\nConsider an economy with two goods, A and B. The matrix of coefficients and the final demand is given by\n\nIntuitively, this corresponds to finding the amount of output each sector should produce given that we want 7 units of good A and 4 units of good B. Then solving the system of linear equations derived above gives us\n\nThere is an extensive literature on these models. There is the Hawkins–Simon condition on producibility. There has been research on disaggregation to clustered inter-industry flows, and on the study of constellations of industries. A great deal of empirical work has been done to identify coefficients, and data has been published for the national economy as well as for regions. The Leontief system can be extended to a model of general equilibrium; it offers a method of decomposing work done at a macro level.\n\nTransportation is implicit in the notion of inter-industry flows. It is explicitly recognized when transportation is identified as an industry – how much is purchased from transportation in order to produce. But this is not very satisfactory because transportation requirements differ, depending on industry locations and capacity constraints on regional production. Also, the receiver of goods generally pays freight cost, and often transportation data are lost because transportation costs are treated as part of the cost of the goods.\n\nWalter Isard and his student, Leon Moses, were quick to see the spatial economy and transportation implications of input–output, and began work in this area in the 1950s developing a concept of interregional input–output. Take a one region versus the world case. We wish to know something about interregional commodity flows, so introduce a column into the table headed \"exports\" and we introduce an \"import\" row.\n\nA more satisfactory way to proceed would be to tie regions together at the industry level. That is, we could identify both intra-region inter-industry transactions and inter-region inter-industry transactions. The problem here is that the table grows quickly.\n\nInput–output is conceptually simple. Its extension to a model of equilibrium in the national economy has been done successfully using high-quality data. One who wishes to do work with input–output systems must deal skillfully with industry classification, data estimation, and inverting very large, ill-conditioned matrices. Moreover, changes in relative prices are not readily handled by this modeling approach alone. Of course, input–output accounts are part and parcel to a more flexible form of modeling, Computable general equilibrium models.\n\nTwo additional difficulties are of interest in transportation work. There is the question of substituting one input for another, and there is the question about the stability of coefficients as production increases or decreases. These are intertwined questions. They have to do with the nature of regional production functions.\n\nBecause the input–output model is fundamentally linear in nature, it lends itself to rapid computation as well as flexibility in computing the effects of changes in demand. Input–output models for different regions can also be linked together to investigate the effects of inter-regional trade, and additional columns can be added to the table to perform environmentally extended input-output analysis (EEIOA). For example, information on fossil fuel inputs to each sector can be used to investigate flows of embodied carbon within and between different economies.\n\nThe structure of the input–output model has been incorporated into national accounting in many developed countries, and as such can be used to calculate important measures such as national GDP. Input–output economics has been used to study regional economies within a nation, and as a tool for national and regional economic planning. A main use of input–output analysis is to measure the economic impacts of events as well as public investments or programs as shown by IMPLAN and Regional Input-Output Modeling System. It is also used to identify economically related industry clusters and also so-called \"key\" or \"target\" industries (industries that are most likely to enhance the internal coherence of a specified economy). By linking industrial output to satellite accounts articulating energy use, effluent production, space needs, and so on, input–output analysts have extended the approaches application to a wide variety of uses.\n\nThe input-output model is one of the major conceptual models for a socialist planned economy. This model involves the direct determination of physical quantities to be produced in each industry, which is used to formulate a consistent economic plan of resource allocation. This method of planning is contrasted with price-directed Lange-model socialism and Soviet-style material balance planning.\n\nIn the economy of the Soviet Union, planning was conducted using the method of material balances up until the country's dissolution. The method of material balances was first developed in the 1930s during the Soviet Union's rapid industrialization drive. Input-output planning was never adopted because the material balance system had become entrenched in the Soviet economy, and input-output planning was shunned for ideological reasons. As a result, the benefits of consistent and detailed planning through input-output analysis was never realized in the Soviet-type economies.\n\nThe mathematics of input–output economics is straightforward, but the data requirements are enormous because the expenditures and revenues of each branch of economic activity have to be represented. As a result, not all countries collect the required data and data quality varies, even though a set of standards for the data's collection has been set out by the United Nations through its System of National Accounts (SNA): the most recent standard is the 2008 SNA. Because the data collection and preparation process for the input–output accounts is necessarily labor and computer intensive, input–output tables are often published long after the year in which the data were collected—typically as much as 5–7 years after. Moreover, the economic \"snapshot\" that the benchmark version of the tables provides of the economy's cross-section is typically taken only once every few years, at best.\n\nHowever, many developed countries estimate input–output accounts annually and with much greater recency. This is because while most uses of the input–output analysis focus on the matrix set of inter-industry exchanges, the actual focus of the analysis from the perspective of most national statistical agencies is the benchmarking of gross domestic product. Input–output tables therefore are an instrumental part of national accounts. As suggested above, the core input–output table reports only intermediate goods and services that are exchanged among industries. But an array of row vectors, typically aligned at the bottom of this matrix, record non-industrial inputs by industry like payments for labor; indirect business taxes; dividends, interest, and rents; capital consumption allowances (depreciation); other property-type income (like profits); and purchases from foreign suppliers (imports). At a national level, although excluding the imports, when summed this is called \"gross product originating\" or \"gross domestic product by industry.\" Another array of column vectors is called \"final demand\" or \"gross product consumed.\" This displays columns of spending by households, governments, changes in industry stocks, and industries on investment, as well as net exports. (See also Gross domestic product.) In any case, by employing the results of an economic census which asks for the sales, payrolls, and material/equipment/service input of each establishment, statistical agencies back into estimates of industry-level profits and investments using the input–output matrix as a sort of double-accounting framework.\n\nDespite the clear ability of the input-output model to depict and analyze the dependence of one industry or sector on another, Leontief and others never managed to introduce the full spectrum of dependency relations in a market economy. In 2003, Mohammad Gani , a pupil of Leontief, introduced consistency analysis in his book 'Foundations of Economic Science' (), which formally looks exactly like the input–output table but explores the dependency relations in terms of payments and intermediation relations. Consistency analysis explores the consistency of plans of buyers and sellers by decomposing the input–output table into four matrices, each for a different kind of means of payment. It integrates micro and macroeconomics into one model and deals with money in a value-free manner. It deals with the flow of funds via the movement of goods.\n\nA brief listing of some Input–output models: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55662464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55662464", "title": "Intermedia Systems Corporation", "text": "Intermedia Systems Corporation\n\nIntermedia Systems Corporation was an American media technology company, co-founded in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1969 by Gerd Stern and Michael Callahan. Stern and Callahan had been members of the media art collective USCO in the 1960s when they had lived in Rockland County, New York. Intermedia Systems Corporation produced multimedia art internationally during the 1970s.\n\nGerd Stern was offered an Associate in Education faculty position at Harvard University by Harvard professor George Litwin, a former colleague of Timothy Leary's. Stern moved with Michael Callahan to Cambridge, Massachusetts, where they used USCO equipment to begin their own company in cooperation with Litwin and other behavioral scientists affiliated with Harvard Business School. Stern and Callahan co-founded Intermedia Systems Corporation in 1969, the year the company handled some management and administrative details for the Woodstock festival. Intermedia Systems Corporation made pioneering hardware to control multi-channel audiovisual programming, and in the 1970s produced multimedia art internationally.\n\nIntermedia Systems Corporation's approach to applied research in the arts was featured in Stewart Kranz’s 1974 anthology, \"Science and Technology in the Arts\". Litwin stated in the book, “We are trying to use mixed media—multimedia technology—to create environments that have particular kinds of psychological effects.\" Stern explained that the interdisciplinary company conducted experiments, and existed in the space between psychology, business, and art.\nIn 1974 Stern gave a talk on \"the present state of communications systems and some possible directions for evolution,\" at a conference titled \"Educational Communication Centers and the Television Arts.\" The conference was coordinated by Gerald O'Grady, and held at the State University of New York in Albany. Grady was Director of the Center for Media Study at the State University of New York in Buffalo. In addition to pioneers of public television experiments, other presenters included video artists Steina Vasulka, Woody Vasulka, and Ed Emshwiller, as well as composer Joel Chadabe. There was also a demonstration of one of Experimental Television Center's video synthesizers.\n\nCallahan worked at Harvard University from 1977 until 1994, at the Carpenter Center for Visual Arts. He and his wife Adrienne co-founded Museum Technology Source in 1986. The company, based in Massachusetts, initially made electronic devices that allowed museum patrons to use video and interactive exhibits.\n"}
{"id": "40849810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849810", "title": "International framework of sexual violence", "text": "International framework of sexual violence\n\nSexual violence includes, but is not limited to rape. Although there is no agreed upon definition of sexual violence, commonly applied ones encompass any act of a sexual nature or attempt to obtain a sexual act carried out through coercion. Sexual violence also includes physical and psychological violence directed at a person's sexuality, including unwanted comments or advances, or acts of traffic such as forced prostitution or sexual slavery.\n\nSexual violence, in times of peace and armed conflict situations, is widespread and considered to be one of the most traumatic, pervasive, and most common violations human beings suffer. It is a serious public health and human rights problem and has profound short- and long- term impacts on physical and mental health. Though women and girls suffer disproportionately from this kind of violence, it can occur to anybody at any age. It is also an act of violence that can be perpetrated by parents, caregivers, acquaintances, and strangers, as well as intimate partners. Sexual violence is rarely a crime of passion; it is an aggressive act that frequently aims to express power and dominance over the victim.\n\nSexual violence remains highly stigmatized in all settings; thus, levels of disclosure of the assault vary between regions. In general, it is widely under-reported; thus, available data tend to underestimate the true scale of the problem. In addition, sexual violence is also a neglected area of research; thus, deeper understanding of the issue is needed to promote a coordinated movement against it. It is important to distinguish between domestic sexual violence and conflict-related sexual violence. Often, people who coerce their spouses into sexual acts believe their actions are legitimate because they are married. In times of conflict, sexual violence tends to be an inevitable repercussion of warfare trapped in an ongoing cycle of impunity. Rape is often used as a weapon of war, as a form of attack on the enemy, typifying the conquest and degradation of its women or men or captured fighters of any gender.\n\nEven though international humanitarian law (IHL) strongly prohibits sexual violence in all armed conflicts and international human rights law (IHRL) and international customary law strongly prohibit it at all times, enforcement mechanisms are fragile or do not exist in many parts of the world. Acts of sexual violence can be charged as a crime against humanity, genocide, war crime, or grave breach of the Geneva Conventions.\n\nReferences to sexual offences and violence provided in IHL instruments are only partially expressed in the 1949 Geneva Conventions, and even more vaguely considered in the 1977 Additional Protocols. By prohibiting sexual violence in a non-discriminatory manner, international humanitarian law ensures that women are protected through a two-tiered approach, being covered by general (equal protection as men) and specific protections. IHL mandates special protections to women, according to their additional needs in situations in which they find themselves more vulnerable, for example women who are widows, sick and wounded, migrants, internally displaced, or held in detention.\n\nAlthough evidence of sexual atrocities such as mass rapes is acknowledged in the Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal and Tokyo Tribunal, references to sexual violence in their respective charter are absent. Nonetheless, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), the International Criminal Tribunal for former Yugoslavia (ICTY), the hybrid Special Court for Sierra Leone and the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia consider sexual violence as a public tool of war rather than a private crime. Groundbreaking case law both by the \"ad hoc\" Tribunals of ICTR and ICTY established unprecedented developments by classifying acts of rape and sexual violence as crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity.\n\nThe Akayesu case goes beyond domestic law definitions of sexual violence and is the first case in which sexual violence is perceived as an integral part of genocide as defined in the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. On 2 September 1998, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) found Jean-Paul Akayesu guilty of genocide and crimes against humanity, and \"sexual violence\" is cited more than 100 times in the judgment. The trial chamber also held that \"sexual violence was an integral part of the process of destruction, specifically targeting Tutsi women and specifically contributing to their destruction and to the destruction of the Tutsi group as a whole\".\n\nThe first trial solely focused on the perpetration of systematic sexual violence (rape camps) and on crimes against humanity committed against women and girls was in the Foca case, a ruling before the International Criminal Tribunal for former Yugoslavia (ICTY). The Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) also explicitly incorporates rape and other forms of sexual violence in the list of war crimes and therefore recognizes sexual violence as a grave breach of international humanitarian law and of the Geneva Conventions.\n\nAn extensive amount of both hard and soft law instruments set rules, standards and norms for the protection of victims of sexual offences. Among the wide range of international human rights law instruments are the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (1979), the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women (1993), the Inter-American Convention on the Prevention, Punishment and Eradication of Violence Against Women (1994), the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa (2003), and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action (1993). The UN Security Council, ECOSOC and the UN Commission on Human Rights do not take into account the nature of the conflict with respect to the protection of women in war time.\n\nFive UN Security Council Resolutions specifically address sexual violence:\n\n\nSeven reports from the Secretary-General relate to sexual violence in conflict:\n\nThe first time the Security Council addressed the impacts of armed conflict on women was in Resolution 1325 (2000). The document focuses on the need for specific protections for women and girls in conflict and expresses the need to consider gender perspectives in mission, UN peace support operations, and post-conflict processes.\n\nResolution 1820 (2008) of the UN Security Council declares that rape and other forms of sexual violence \"can constitute war crimes, crimes against humanity or a constitutive act with respect to genocide\".\nResolution 1888 (2009) is perceived as an advancement in international law as it created the Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary General for Sexual Violence in Conflict (SRSG-SVC). The first Special Representative, Margot Wallström, was appointed in April 2010. The current Special Representative Zainab Hawa Bangura took office in September 2012. The Office identified eight priority countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina; Central African Republic (CAR); Colombia; Cote d’Ivoire; Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC); Liberia; South Sudan and Sudan. SRSG-SVC is also engaged in the Middle East (Syria) and in Asia and the Pacific (Cambodia).\n\nThe six priorities of the Office are:\n\n\nResolution 1960 (2010) reaffirms that sexual violence is systematic, rampant and widespread. The resolution creates new institutional tools for the prevention and protection from sexual violence. The aim of the resolution is to provide further steps for combating impunity and recognizing sexual violence as a serious breach of human rights law and international humanitarian law.\n\nResolution 2106 (2013) reasserts fundamental requirements for the prevention of sexual violence in conflict and post-conflict setting: gender equality, women empowerment, and the importance of implementing the full range of commitments found in resolution 1325.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18465", "title": "Laches (equity)", "text": "Laches (equity)\n\nLaches ( \"latches\", ; Law French: \"remissness\", \"dilatoriness\", from Old French \"laschesse\") refers to a lack of diligence and activity in making a legal claim, or moving forward with legal enforcement of a right, particularly in regard to equity; hence, it is an \"unreasonable\" delay that can be viewed as prejudicing the opposing [defending] party. When asserted in litigation, it is an equity defense, that is, a defense to a claim for an equitable remedy. The person invoking laches is asserting that an opposing party has \"slept on its rights\", and that, as a result of this delay, circumstances have changed, witnesses or evidence may have been lost or no longer available, etc., such that it is no longer a just resolution to grant the plaintiff's claim. Laches is associated with the maxim of equity, \"Equity aids the vigilant, not the sleeping ones [that is, those who sleep on their rights].\" Put another way, failure to assert one’s rights in a timely manner can result in a claim being barred by laches.\n\nLaches is a legal term derived from the Old French \"laschesse,\" meaning \"remissness\" or \"dilatoriness,\" and is viewed as the opposite of \"vigilance.\" The United States Supreme Court case \"Costello v. United States\" 365 US 265, 282 (1961) is often cited for a definition of laches. Invoking laches is a reference to a lack of diligence and activity in making a legal claim, or moving forward with legal enforcement of a right, in particular with regard to equity, and so is an \"unreasonable delay pursuing a right or claim, in a way that prejudices the [opposing] party\". When asserted in litigation, it is an equitable defense, that is, a defense to a claim for an equitable remedy. The essential element of \"laches\" is an unreasonable delay by the plaintiff in bringing the claim; because laches is an equitable defense, it is ordinarily applied only to claims for equitable relief (such as injunctions), and not to claims for legal relief (such as damages). The person invoking laches is asserting that an opposing party has \"slept on its rights\", and that, as a result of this delay, witnesses and/or evidence may have been lost or no longer available, and circumstances have changed such that it is no longer just to grant the plaintiff's original claim; hence, laches is associated with the maxim of equity: \"Vigilantibus non dormientibus æquitas subvenit\" (\"Equity aids the vigilant, not the sleeping ones [that is, those who sleep on their rights]\"). Put another way, failure to assert one’s rights in a timely manner can result in a claim being barred by laches. Sometimes courts will also require that the party invoking the doctrine has changed its position as a result of the delay, but that requirement is more typical of the related (but more stringent) defense and equally cause of action of estoppel.\n\nA claim of laches requires the following components:(1) a delay in bringing the action, (2) a delay that is unreasonable and (3) that prejudices the defendant.\n\nThe period of delay begins when the plaintiff knew, or reasonably ought to have known, that the cause of action existed; the period of delay ends only when the legal action is formally filed. Informing or warning the defendant of the cause of action (for example by sending a cease-and-desist letter or merely \"threatening\" a lawsuit) does \"not\", by itself, end the period of delay.\n\nTo invoke laches the delay by the opposing party in initiating the lawsuit must be unreasonable. The courts have recognized the following causes of delay as reasonable:\n\nBy contrast, it is \"not\" reasonable to delay a lawsuit to \"capitalize on the value of the infringer's labor\". In \"Danjaq v. Sony\", the Ninth Circuit decided that a screenwriter who waited for a film studio to publicize and distribute a film based on a script he allegedly owned had delayed his lawsuit unreasonably.\n\nUnreasonable delay must prejudice the defendant. Examples of such prejudice include:\nUnreasonable delay may also prejudice the rights of third-parties who were unknown in the case, earlier but whose rights got created in the intervening period of the delay (e.g.: the defendant inducts new persons on a disputed property by sale, or by lease)\n\nA defense lawyer raising the defense of \"laches\" against a motion for injunctive relief (a form of equitable relief) might argue that the plaintiff comes \"waltzing in at the eleventh hour\" when it is now too late to grant the relief sought, at least not without causing great harm that the plaintiff could have avoided. In certain types of cases (for example, cases involving time-sensitive matters, such as elections), a delay of even a few days is likely to be met with a defense of \"laches\", even where the applicable statute of limitations might allow the type of action to be commenced within a much longer time period. In courts in the United States, laches has often been applied even where a statute of limitations exists, although there is a division of authority on this point.\n\nIf a court does accept the laches defense, it can decide either to deny the request for equitable relief or to narrow the equitable relief that it would otherwise give. Even if the court denies equitable relief to a plaintiff because of laches, the plaintiff may still have a claim for legal relief if the statute of limitations has not run out.\n\nUnder the United States Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, \"laches\" is an affirmative defense, which means that the burden of asserting \"laches\" is on the party responding to the claim to which it applies.\n\nThe \"laches\" defense does not apply if the claimant was a minor during the time that the claim was not brought, so a party can bring a claim against an historical injustice when they reach their majority.\n\nThe defense of \"laches\" resembles a statute of limitations since both are concerned with ensuring that plaintiffs bring their claims in a timely fashion.\n\nHowever, a statute of limitations is concerned only with the time that has passed. Laches is concerned with the reasonableness of the delay in a particular situation and so is more case-specific and more focused on the equitable conduct of the plaintiff. Those considerations are not unique to the laches defense because they are characteristic of equitable reasoning and equitable remedies. Whereas, limitation is a statutory remedy.\n\nIn the US, the proper disposal of claims in light of those two areas of law has required attention through to the Supreme Court. In \"Petrella v. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer\" (2014), the US Supreme Court rebuffed a defendant's claim that laches barred a copyright infringement suit because Congress had established a detailed statutory scheme, including a statute of limitations.\n\nIn the Virginia Republican primary for the 2012 US presidential election, several candidates did not appear on the ballot because they failed to obtain sufficient petition signatures in time; four of the unsuccessful candidates—Rick Perry, Jon Huntsman, Newt Gingrich, and Rick Santorum—sued, claiming that restrictions on the persons allowed to gather signatures were unconstitutional. Their claim was dismissed by the district court on the grounds of laches, because, in the words of the appellate court: The appeals court upheld the dismissal on grounds of laches, but it added that the challenge would likely have succeeded if it had been brought in a timely fashion.\n\nIn Grand Haven, Michigan, the Northwest Ottawa Community Health System sued Grand Haven Township and Health Pointe, which was in the process of building a competing medical facility in the township, arguing that the township ignored its own zoning ordinance in approving the project. On March 24, 2017, as part of the ruling dismissing the lawsuit, Circuit Court Judge Jon A. Van Allsburg noted that the Northwest Ottawa Community Health System delayed more than eight months from the date the project was approved before filing the lawsuit and that during that time, plaintiff Health Pointe had purchased construction materials. Therefore, the doctrine of laches invalidated a lawsuit that was filed so long after the fact.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "722503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=722503", "title": "Linear system", "text": "Linear system\n\nA linear system is a mathematical model of a system based on the use of a linear operator.\nLinear systems typically exhibit features and properties that are much simpler than the nonlinear case.\nAs a mathematical abstraction or idealization, linear systems find important applications in automatic control theory, signal processing, and telecommunications. For example, the propagation medium for wireless communication systems can often be\nmodeled by linear systems.\n\nA general deterministic system can be described by an operator, formula_1, that maps an input, formula_2, as a function of formula_3 to an output, formula_4, a type of black box description. Linear systems satisfy the property of superposition. Given two valid inputs \nas well as their respective outputs\nthen a linear system must satisfy\nfor any scalar values formula_10 and formula_11.\nThe system is then defined by the equation formula_12, where formula_4 is some arbitrary function of time, and formula_2 is the system state. Given formula_4 and formula_1, formula_2 can be solved for. For example, a simple harmonic oscillator obeys the differential equation:\n\nIf\nthen formula_1 is a linear operator. Letting formula_21, we can rewrite the differential equation as formula_12, which shows that a simple harmonic oscillator is a linear system.\n\nThe behavior of the resulting system subjected to a complex input can be described as a sum of responses to simpler inputs. In nonlinear systems, there is no such relation. \nThis mathematical property makes the solution of modelling equations simpler than many nonlinear systems.\nFor time-invariant systems this is the basis of the impulse response or the frequency response methods (see LTI system theory), which describe a general input function formula_2 in terms of unit impulses or frequency components. \n\nTypical differential equations of linear time-invariant systems are well adapted to analysis using the Laplace transform in the continuous case, and the Z-transform in the discrete case (especially in computer implementations).\n\nAnother perspective is that solutions to linear systems comprise a system of functions which act like vectors in the geometric sense.\n\nA common use of linear models is to describe a nonlinear system by linearization. This is usually done for mathematical convenience.\n\nThe time-varying impulse response \"h\"(\"t\",\"t\") of a linear system is defined as the response of the system at time \"t\" = \"t\" to a single impulse applied at time \"t\" = \"t\". In other words, if the input \"x\"(\"t\") to a linear system is \n\nwhere δ(\"t\") represents the Dirac delta function, and the corresponding response \"y\"(\"t\") of the system is\n\nthen the function \"h\"(\"t\",\"t\") is the time-varying impulse response of the system. Since the system cannot respond before the input is applied the following causality condition must be satisfied:\n\nThe output of any general continuous-time linear system is related to the input by an integral which may be written over a doubly infinite range because of the causality condition:\n\nIf the properties of the system do not depend on the time at which it is operated then it is said to be time-invariant and h() is a function only of the time difference τ = t-t' which is zero for τ<0 (namely t<t'). By redefinition of h() it is then possible to write the input-output relation equivalently in any of the ways,\n\nLinear time-invariant systems are most commonly characterized by the Laplace transform of the impulse response function called the \"transfer function\" which is:\n\nIn applications this is usually a rational algebraic function of s. Because h(t) is zero for negative t, the integral may equally be written over the doubly infinite range and putting s = iω follows the formula for the \"frequency response function\":\n\nThe output of any discrete time linear system is related to the input by the time-varying convolution sum:\n\nor equivalently for a time-invariant system on redefining h(),\n\nwhere\n\nrepresents the lag time between the stimulus at time \"m\" and the response at time \"n\".\n\n"}
{"id": "185307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185307", "title": "Magical thinking", "text": "Magical thinking\n\nMagical thinking is a term used in anthropology and psychology, denoting the fallacious attribution of causal relationships between actions and events, with subtle differences in meaning between the two fields. In anthropology, it denotes the attribution of causality between entities grouped with one another (coincidence) or similar to one another. \nIn psychology, the entities between which a causal relation has to be posited are more strictly delineated; here it denotes the belief that one's thoughts by themselves can bring about effects in the world or that thinking something corresponds with doing it. In both cases, the belief can cause a person to experience fear, seemingly not rationally justifiable to an observer outside the belief system, of performing certain acts or having certain thoughts because of an assumed correlation between doing so and threatening calamities.\n\nIn religion, folk religion, and superstitious beliefs, the posited causality is between religious ritual, prayer, sacrifice, or the observance of a taboo, and an expected benefit or recompense. The use of a lucky item or ritual, for example, is assumed to increase the probability that one will perform at a level so that one can achieve a desired goal or outcome.\n\nResearchers have identified two possible principles as the formal causes of the attribution of false causal relationships:\n\n\nProminent Victorian theorists identified associative thinking (a common feature of practitioners of magic) as a characteristic form of irrationality. As with all forms of magical thinking, association-based and similarities-based notions of causality are not always said to be the practice of magic by a magician. For example, the doctrine of signatures held that similarities between plant parts and body parts indicated their efficacy in treating diseases of those body parts, and was a part of Western medicine during the Middle Ages. This association-based thinking is a vivid example of the general human application of the representativeness heuristic.\n\nEdward Burnett Tylor coined the term \"associative thinking\", characterizing it as pre-logical, in which the \"magician's folly\" is in mistaking an imagined connection with a real one. The magician believes that thematically linked items can influence one another by virtue of their similarity. For example, in E. E. Evans-Pritchard's account, members of the Azande tribe believe that rubbing crocodile teeth on banana plants can invoke a fruitful crop. Because crocodile teeth are curved (like bananas) and grow back if they fall out, the Azande observe this similarity and want to impart this capacity of regeneration to their bananas. To them, the rubbing constitutes a means of transference.\n\nSir James Frazer (1854-1941) elaborated upon Tylor's principle by dividing magic into the categories of sympathetic and contagious magic. The latter is based upon the law of contagion or contact, in which two things that were once connected retain this link and have the ability to affect their supposedly related objects, such as harming a person by harming a lock of his hair. Sympathetic magic and homeopathy operate upon the premise that \"like affects like\", or that one can impart characteristics of one object to a similar object. Frazer believed that some individuals think the entire world functions according to these mimetic, or homeopathic, principles.\n\nIn \"How Natives Think\" (1925), Lucien Lévy-Bruhl describes a similar notion of mystical, \"collective representations\". He too sees magical thinking as fundamentally different from a Western style of thought. He asserts that in these representations, \"primitive\" people's \"mental activity is too little differentiated for it to be possible to consider ideas or images of objects by themselves apart from the emotions and passions which evoke those ideas or are evoked by them\". Lévy-Bruhl explains that natives commit the \"post hoc, ergo propter hoc\" fallacy, in which people observe that x is followed by y, and conclude that x has caused y. He believes that this fallacy is institutionalized in native culture and is committed regularly and repeatedly.\n\nDespite the view that magic is less than rational and entails an inferior concept of causality, in \"The Savage Mind\" (1966), Claude Lévi-Strauss suggested that magical procedures are relatively effective in exerting control over the environment. This outlook has generated alternative theories of magical thinking, such as the symbolic and psychological approaches, and softened the contrast between \"educated\" and \"primitive\" thinking: \"Magical thinking is no less characteristic of our own mundane intellectual activity than it is of Zande curing practices.\"\n\nBronisław Malinowski's \"Magic, Science and Religion\" (1954) discusses another type of magical thinking, in which words and sounds are thought to have the ability to directly affect the world. This type of wish fulfillment thinking can result in the avoidance of talking about certain subjects (\"speak of the devil and he'll appear\"), the use of euphemisms instead of certain words, or the belief that to know the \"true name\" of something gives one power over it, or that certain chants, prayers, or mystical phrases will bring about physical changes in the world. More generally, it is magical thinking to take a symbol to be its referent or an analogy to represent an identity.\n\nSigmund Freud believed that magical thinking was produced by cognitive developmental factors. He described practitioners of magic as projecting their mental states onto the world around them, similar to a common phase in child development. From toddlerhood to early school age, children will often link the outside world with their internal consciousness, e.g. \"It is raining because I am sad.\"\n\nAnother theory of magical thinking is the symbolic approach. Leading thinkers of this category, including Stanley J. Tambiah, believe that magic is meant to be expressive, rather than instrumental. As opposed to the direct, mimetic thinking of Frazer, Tambiah asserts that magic utilizes abstract analogies to express a desired state, along the lines of metonymy or metaphor.\n\nAn important question raised by this interpretation is how mere symbols could exert material effects. One possible answer lies in John L. Austin's concept of \"performativity,\" in which the act of saying something makes it true, such as in an inaugural or marital rite. Other theories propose that magic is effective because symbols are able to affect internal psycho-physical states. They claim that the act of expressing a certain anxiety or desire can be reparative in itself.\n\nSome scholars believe that magic is effective psychologically. They cite the placebo effect and psychosomatic disease as prime examples of how our mental functions exert power over our bodies. Similarly, Robin Horton suggests that engaging in magical practices surrounding healing can relieve anxiety, which could have a significant positive physical effect. In the absence of advanced health care, such effects would play a relatively major role, thereby helping to explain the persistence and popularity of such practices.\n\nAccording to theories of anxiety relief and control, people turn to magical beliefs when there exists a sense of uncertainty and potential danger and few logical or scientific responses to such danger. Magic is used to restore a sense of control over circumstance. In support of this theory, research indicates that superstitious behavior is invoked more often in high stress situations, especially by people with a greater desire for control.\n\nAnother potential reason for the persistence of magic rituals is that the rituals prompt their own use by creating a feeling of insecurity and then proposing themselves as precautions. Boyer and Liénard propose that in obsessive-compulsive rituals — a possible clinical model for certain forms of magical thinking — focus shifts to the lowest level of gestures, resulting in goal demotion. For example, an obsessive-compulsive cleaning ritual may overemphasize the order, direction, and number of wipes used to clean the surface. The goal becomes less important than the actions used to achieve the goal, with the implication that magic rituals can persist without efficacy because the intent is lost within the act. Alternatively, some cases of harmless \"rituals\" may have positive effects in bolstering intent, as may be the case with certain pre-game exercises in sports.\n\nAriel Glucklich tries to understand magic from a subjective perspective, attempting to comprehend magic on a phenomenological, experientially based level. Glucklich seeks to describe the attitude that magical practitioners feel which he calls \"magical consciousness\" or the \"magical experience.\" He explains that it is based upon \"the awareness of the interrelatedness of all things in the world by means of simple but refined sense perception.\"\n\nAnother phenomenological model is that of Gilbert Lewis, who argues that \"habit is unthinking.\" He believes that those practicing magic do not think of an explanatory theory behind their actions any more than the average person tries to grasp the pharmaceutical workings of aspirin. When the average person takes an aspirin, he does not know how the medicine chemically functions. He takes the pill with the premise that there is proof of efficacy. Similarly, many who avail themselves of magic do so without feeling the need to understand a causal theory behind it.\n\nRobin Horton maintains that the difference between the thinking of Western and of non-Western peoples is predominantly \"idiomatic\". He asserts that the members of both cultures use the same practical common-sense, and that both science and magic are ways beyond basic logic by which people formulate theories to explain whatever occurs. However, non-Western cultures use the idiom of magic and have community spiritual figures, and therefore non-Westerners turn to magical practices or to a specialist in that idiom. Horton sees the same logic and common-sense in all cultures, but notes that their contrasting ontological idioms lead to cultural practices which seem illogical to observers whose own culture has correspondingly contrasting norms. He explains, \"[T]he layman's grounds for accepting the models propounded by the scientist are often no different from the young African villager's ground for accepting the models propounded by one of his elders.\"\n\nAlong similar lines, Michael F. Brown argues that the Aguaruna of Peru see magic as a type of technology, no more supernatural than their physical tools. Brown says that the Aguaruna utilize magic in an empirical manner; for example, they discard any magical stones which they have found to be ineffective. To Brown—as to Horton—magical and scientific thinking differ merely in idiom.\n\nThese theories blur the boundaries between magic, science, and religion, and focus on the similarities in magical, technical, and spiritual practices. Brown even ironically writes that he is tempted to disclaim the existence of 'magic.'\n\nOne theory of substantive difference is that of the open versus closed society. Horton describes this as one of the key dissimilarities between traditional thought and Western science. He suggests that the scientific worldview is distinguished from a magical one by the scientific method and by skepticism, requiring the falsifiability of any scientific hypothesis. He notes that for native peoples \"there is no developed awareness of alternatives to the established body of theoretical texts.\" He notes that all further differences between traditional and Western thought can be understood as a result of this factor. He says that because there are no alternatives in societies based on magical thought, a theory does not need to be objectively judged to be valid.\n\nMagical thinking is most prominent in children between ages 2 and 7. During this age, children strongly believe that their personal thoughts have a direct effect on the rest of the world. Therefore, if they experience something tragic that they do not understand, e.g. a death, their minds will create a reason to feel responsible. Jean Piaget, a developmental psychologist, came up with a theory of four developmental stages. Children between ages 2 and 7 would be classified under his preoperational stage of development. During this stage children are still developing their use of logical thinking. A child's thinking is dominated by perceptions of physical features, meaning that if the child is told that a family pet has gone away, then the child will have difficulty comprehending the transformation of the dog not being around anymore. Magical thinking would be evident here, since the child may believe that the family pet being gone is just temporary. Their young minds in this stage do not understand the finality of death and magical thinking may bridge the gap.\n\nChildren who evidence magical thinking often feel that they are responsible for an event or events occurring or are capable of reversing an event simply by thinking about it and wishing for a change. Make-believe and fantasy are an integral part of life at this age and are often used to explain the inexplicable.\n\nAccording to Piaget, children within this age group are often \"egocentric,\" believing that what they feel and experience is the same as everyone else's feelings and experiences. Also at this age, there is often a lack of ability to understand that there may be other explanations for events outside of the realm of things they have already comprehended. What happens outside their understanding needs to be explained using what they already know, because of an inability to fully comprehend abstract concepts.\n\nMagical thinking is found particularly in children's explanations of experiences about death, whether the death of a family member or pet, or their own illness or impending death. These experiences are often new for a young child, who at that point has no experience to give understanding of the ramifications of the event. A child may feel that they are responsible for what has happened, simply because they were upset with the person who died, or perhaps played with the pet too roughly. There may also be the idea that if the child wishes it hard enough, or performs just the right act, the person or pet may choose to come back, and not be dead any longer. When considering their own illness or impending death, some children may feel that they are being punished for doing something wrong, or not doing something they should have, and therefore have become ill. If a child's ideas about an event are incorrect because of their magical thinking, there is a possibility that the conclusions the child makes could result in long-term beliefs and behaviours that create difficulty for the child as they mature.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4778831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4778831", "title": "Masterbook", "text": "Masterbook\n\nMasterbook is a generic role-playing game that was created by West End Games. It is a follow-up to the multi-genre role-playing game \"Torg\" and the science fiction game \"Shatterzone\", which used a modified version of the \"Torg\" system. As of January 2011, it is published by Precis Intermedia Gaming.\n\nLike \"Torg\", the \"Masterbook\" system utilized two complementary forms of in-game conflict resolution: a unified dice mechanic, which was based on a roll of two ten-sided dice, and a game-specific deck of cards (the MasterDeck, similar to the Drama Deck in \"Torg\") that influenced random number generation, character actions, and the game's plot. \"Masterbook\" was used for several licensed properties, most notably \"The World of Indiana Jones\" (1994), \"The World of Necroscope\" (1995), \"\" (1996), \"The World of Species\" (1995), \"The World of Tales from the Crypt\" (1996), and \"The World of Tank Girl\" (1995). It was also used for unique settings such as \"The World of Bloodshadows\" (1994).\n\nThe system was, ultimately, a commercial failure despite these licenses, thanks to a combination of factors, including the high level of detail in game mechanics, the unusual synthesis of dice- and card-based conflict resolution, and the low level of player character power and effect even in fantastic or pulp-style settings such as \"Indiana Jones\". This last factor was in direct contrast to \"Torg\", which helped to isolate many fans of the game's predecessor and drive them to play games whose systems were more directly accommodating to their preferred style of gameplay.\n\n"}
{"id": "1028044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1028044", "title": "Medical torture", "text": "Medical torture\n\nMedical torture describes the involvement of, or sometimes instigation by, medical personnel in acts of torture, either to judge what victims can endure, to apply treatments which will enhance torture, or as torturers in their own right. Medical torture overlaps with medical interrogation if it involves the use of professional medical expertise to facilitate interrogation or corporal punishment, in the conduct of torturous human experimentation or in providing professional medical sanction and approval for the torture of prisoners. Medical torture also covers torturous scientific (or pseudo-scientific) experimentation upon unwilling human subjects.\n\nIt is generally accepted that medical torture fundamentally violates medical ethics, which all medical practitioners are expected to adhere to.\n\nThere remain gaps in regulation relating to medical torture in many countries:\n\n\n\nAccording to the Center for Constitutional Rights' When Healers Harm campaign, health professionals were complicit in the torture and abuse of detainees during U.S. President George W. Bush's \"war on terror\". Health professionals, including medical doctors, psychiatrists, medical examiners, psychologists, and nurses, have been implicated in the torture and abuse of prisoners in CIA secret prisons and military detention centers, such as those in Guantánamo, Afghanistan, and Iraq.\n\nAmong other things, health professionals are accused of:\n\n\nTo date, no state licensing boards or professional associations have investigated – or recognized, in some cases – abusive conduct by individual members of their professions. In 2009, after years of denial, the American Psychological Association finally recognized that psychologists had engaged in torture. However, the American Psychological Association has not recognized that psychologists were involved in the Bush Administration’s torture policy. Some criticize the APA for failing to respond to allegations of “collusion between APA officials and the national security apparatus in providing ethical cover for psychologists’ participation in detainee abuse.\"\n\nAlthough the American Medical Association has made clear that physicians should not be involved in interrogations of any kind, it continues to insist that it has “no specific knowledge of doctors being involved in abuse or torture,” despite evidence to the contrary, including government documents and Office of Legal Counsel memos, a report by the International Committee of the Red Cross and multiple accounts by survivors.\n\nSome other accounts of medical or professional complicity in torture include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32108559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32108559", "title": "Negative hyperconjugation", "text": "Negative hyperconjugation\n\nIn organic chemistry, negative hyperconjugation is the donation of electron density from a filled π- or p-orbital to a neighboring σ-orbital. This phenomenon, a type of resonance, can stabilize the molecule or transition state. It also causes an elongation of the σ-bond by adding electron density to its antibonding orbital.\n\nNegative hyperconjugation is most commonly observed when the σ-orbital is located on certain C–F or C–O bonds, and does not occur to an appreciable extent with normal C–H bonds.\n\nIn negative hyperconjugation, the electron density flows in the \"opposite\" direction (from π- or p-orbital to empty σ-orbital) than it does in the more common hyperconjugation (from σ-orbital to empty p-orbital).\n\n"}
{"id": "2841658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2841658", "title": "Numbered bank account", "text": "Numbered bank account\n\nNumbered bank accounts are bank accounts where the identity of the holder is replaced with a multi-digit number known only to the client and select private bankers. Although these accounts do add another layer of banking secrecy, they are not completely anonymous as the name of the client is still recorded by the bank and subject to limited, warranted disclosure.\n\nDuring the 1910s, bankers from Switzerland created numbered bank accounts to add a layer of anonymity for European clients seeking to avoid paying World War I taxes. With the passage of the Swiss Banking Law of 1932, the practice proliferated across the banking industry in Switzerland. Some Swiss banks supplement the number with a code name such as \"Cardinal\", \"Octopussy\" or \"Cello\" that identifies the client, alternatively. However, to open this type of account in Switzerland, clients must pass a multi-stage clearance procedure and prove to the bank the lawful origins of their assets. Banking institutions that have adopted this practice in Europe, Asia, and the Americas also require clients to undergo stringent vetting and provide the identity of the beneficial owner. The usage of fake names to open these accounts is prohibited in Switzerland, the European Union, the United States, and other off-shore financial centers.\n\nMany sovereign state governments have outlawed the usage of these accounts as they commonly associated with a desire by the account holder to either minimize governmental scrutiny or avoid taxation. Most regulations governing the usage of numbered bank accounts require that the holder signs a document and undergoes a background check that confirms who they are and a connection to the account. Despite the regulations, numbered bank accounts by their very nature are more private than normal bank accounts. In Switzerland, for example, bankers are outlawed from disclosing whether or not an account is numbered to any governmental agency unless proof of deliberate fraud is established, not merely the non-reporting of assets in order to avoid taxation.\n\n"}
{"id": "18698687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18698687", "title": "Observer effect (physics)", "text": "Observer effect (physics)\n\nIn physics, the observer effect is the theory that simply observing a situation or phenomenon necessarily changes that phenomenon. This is often the result of instruments that, by necessity, alter the state of what they measure in some manner. A commonplace example is checking the pressure in an automobile tire; this is difficult to do without letting out some of the air, thus changing the pressure. Similarly, it is not possible to see any object without light hitting the object, and causing it to reflect that light. While the effects of observation are oftentimes negligible, the object still experiences a change. This effect can be found in many domains of physics, but can usually be reduced to insignificance by using different instruments or observation techniques. \n\nAn especially unusual version of the observer effect occurs in quantum mechanics, as best demonstrated by the double-slit experiment. Physicists have found that even passive observation of quantum phenomena (by changing the test apparatus and passively 'ruling out' all but one possibility), can actually change the measured result. A particularly famous example is the 1998 Weizmann experiment. Despite the \"observer\" in this experiment being an electronic detector—possibly due to the assumption that the word \"observer\" implies a person—its results have led to the popular belief that a conscious mind can directly affect reality. The need for the \"observer\" to be conscious has been rejected by mainstream science as a misconception rooted in a poor understanding of the quantum wave function and the quantum measurement process, apparently being the generation of information at its most basic level that produces the effect.\n\nFor an electron to become detectable, a photon must first interact with it, and this interaction will inevitably change the path of that electron. It is also possible for other, less direct means of measurement to affect the electron. It is necessary to distinguish clearly between the measured value of a quantity and the value resulting from the measurement process. In particular, a measurement of momentum is non-repeatable in short intervals of time. A formula (one-dimensional for simplicity) relating involved quantities, due to Niels Bohr (1928) is given by\nwhere \n\nThe \"measured\" momentum of the electron is then related to , whereas its momentum \"after\" the measurement is related to . This is a best-case scenario.\n\nIn electronics, ammeters and voltmeters are usually wired in series or parallel to the circuit, and so by their very presence affect the current or the voltage they are measuring by way of presenting an additional real or complex load to the circuit, thus changing the transfer function and behavior of the circuit itself. Even a more passive device such as a current clamp, which measures the wire current without coming into physical contact with the wire, affects the current through the circuit being measured because the inductance is mutual.\n\nIn thermodynamics, a standard mercury-in-glass thermometer must absorb or give up some thermal energy to record a temperature, and therefore changes the temperature of the body which it is measuring.\n\nThe theoretical foundation of the concept of measurement in quantum mechanics is a contentious issue deeply connected to the many interpretations of quantum mechanics. A key focus point is that of wave function collapse, for which several popular interpretations assert that measurement causes a \"discontinuous change\" into an eigenstate of the operator associated with the quantity that was measured, a change which is not time-reversible.\n\nMore explicitly, the superposition principle ( of quantum physics dictates that for a wave function , a measurement will result in a state of the quantum system of one of the possible eigenvalues , of the operator which in the space of the eigenfunctions .\n\nOnce one has measured the system, one knows its current state; and this prevents it from being in one of its other state ⁠— it has apparently decohered from them without prospects of future strong quantum interference. This means that the type of measurement one performs on the system affects the end-state of the system.\n\nAn experimentally studied situation related to this is the quantum Zeno effect, in which a quantum state would decay if left alone, but does not decay because of its continuous observation. The dynamics of a quantum system under continuous observation are described by a quantum stochastic master equation known as the Belavkin equation. Further studies have shown that even observing the results after the photon is produced leads to collapsing the wave function and loading a back-history as shown by delayed choice quantum eraser.\n\nWhen discussing the wave function which describes the state of a system in quantum mechanics, one should be cautious of a common misconception that assumes that the wave function amounts to the same thing as the physical object it describes. This flawed concept must then require existence of an external mechanism, such as the mind of a conscious observer, that lies outside the principles governing the time evolution of the wave function , in order to account for the so-called \"collapse of the wave function\" after a measurement has been performed. But the wave function is \"not a physical object\" like, for example, an atom, which has an observable mass, charge and spin, as well as internal degrees of freedom. Instead, is an \"abstract mathematical function\" that contains all the \"statistical\" information that an observer can obtain from measurements of a given system. In this case, there is no real mystery in that this mathematical form of the wave function must change abruptly after a measurement has been performed.\n\nIn the ambit of the so-called hidden-measurements interpretation of quantum mechanics, the observer-effect can be understood as an \"instrument effect\" which results from the combination of the following two aspects: (a) an invasiveness of the measurement process, intrinsically incorporated in its experimental protocol (which therefore cannot be eliminated); (b) the presence of a random mechanism (due to fluctuations in the experimental context) through which a specific measurement-interaction is each time actualized, in a non-predictable (non-controllable) way.\n\nA consequence of Bell's theorem is that measurement on one of two entangled particles can appear to have a nonlocal effect on the other particle. Additional problems related to decoherence arise when the observer is modeled as a quantum system, as well.\nThe uncertainty principle has been frequently confused with the observer effect, evidently even by its originator, Werner Heisenberg. The uncertainty principle in its standard form describes how precisely we may measure the position and momentum of a particle at the same time — if we increase the precision in measuring one quantity, we are forced to lose precision in measuring the other.\nAn alternative version of the uncertainty principle, more in the spirit of an observer effect, fully accounts for the disturbance the observer has on a system and the error incurred, although this is not how the term \"uncertainty principle\" is most commonly used in practice.\n"}
{"id": "1846574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1846574", "title": "Polluter pays principle", "text": "Polluter pays principle\n\nIn environmental law, the polluter pays principle is enacted to make the party responsible for producing pollution responsible for paying for the damage done to the natural environment. It is regarded as a regional custom because of the strong support it has received in most Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and European Union countries. It is a fundamental principle in US environmental law.\n\nAccording to the French historian of the environment Jean-Baptiste Fressoz, financial compensation (not named \"polluter pays principle\" at that time) is already the regulation principle of pollution favoured by industrials in the nineteenth century. He wrote that: \"This principle, which is now offered as a new solution, actually accompanied the process of industrialisation, and was intended by the manufacturers themselves.\"\n\nThe polluter pays principle underpins environmental policy such as an ecotax, which, if enacted by government, deters and essentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions. This principle is based on the fact that as much as pollution is unavoidable, the person or industry that is responsible for the pollution must pay some money for the rehabilitation of the polluted environment.\n\nThe state of New South Wales in Australia has included the polluter pay principle with the other principles of ecologically sustainable development in the objectives of the Environment Protection Authority.\n\nThe polluter pays principle is set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Directive 2004/35/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage is based on this principle. The directive entered into force on 30 April 2004; member states were allowed three years to transpose the directive into their domestic law and by July 2010 all member states had completed this. \n\nIn France, the Charter for the Environment contains a formulation of the polluter pays principle (article 4):\nIn Ghana, the polluter pays principle was adopted in 2011.\n\nThe polluter pays principle is also known as extended producer responsibility (EPR). This is a concept that was probably first described by Thomas Lindhqvist for the Swedish government in 1990. EPR seeks to shift the responsibility of dealing with waste from governments (and thus, taxpayers and society at large) to the entities producing it. In effect, it internalised the cost of waste disposal into the cost of the product, theoretically meaning that the producers will improve the waste profile of their products, thus decreasing waste and increasing possibilities for reuse and recycling.\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development defines extended producer responsibility as: \na concept where manufacturers and importers of products should bear a significant degree of responsibility for the environmental impacts of their products throughout the product life-cycle, including upstream impacts inherent in the selection of materials for the products, impacts from manufacturers’ production process itself, and downstream impacts from the use and disposal of the products. Producers accept their responsibility when designing their products to minimise life-cycle environmental impacts, and when accepting legal, physical or socio-economic responsibility for environmental impacts that cannot be eliminated by design.\nThe waste management in Switzerland is based on the polluter pays principle. Bin bags (for municipal solid waste) are taxed with pay-per-bag fees in three quarters of the communes (and the recycling rate doubled in twenty years).\n\nThe Environmental Damage (Prevention and Remediation) Regulations 2009 (for England) and the Environmental Damage (Prevention and Remediation) (Wales) Regulations 2009 (for Wales) established the operation of the polluter pays principle.\n\nThe principle is employed in all of the major US pollution control laws: Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (solid waste and hazardous waste management), and Superfund (cleanup of abandoned waste sites).\n\nSome eco-taxes underpinned by the polluter pays principle include:\n\nIn 2003, an amendment was passed negating the \"polluter pays\" provision of the Florida Constitution.\n\nThe US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has observed that the polluter pays principle has typically not been fully implemented in US laws and programs. For example, drinking water and sewage treatment services are subsidized and there are limited mechanisms in place to fully assess polluters for treatment costs.\n\nThe Zimbabwe Environmental Management Act of 2002 prohibits the discharge of pollutants into the environment. In line with the \"Polluter Pays\" principle, the Act requires a polluter to meet the cost of decontaminating the polluted environment.\n\nIn international environmental law it is mentioned in the principle 16 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development of 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "8612907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8612907", "title": "Relative interior", "text": "Relative interior\n\nIn mathematics, the relative interior of a set is a refinement of the concept of the interior, which is often more useful when dealing with low-dimensional sets placed in higher-dimensional spaces.\n\nFormally, the relative interior of a set \"S\" (denoted formula_1) is defined as its interior within the affine hull of \"S\". In other words,\nwhere formula_3 is the affine hull of \"S\", and formula_4 is a ball of radius formula_5 centered on formula_6. Any metric can be used for the construction of the ball; all metrics define the same set as the relative interior.\n\nFor any nonempty convex set formula_7 the relative interior can be defined as\n\n"}
{"id": "4959248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4959248", "title": "Saṃsāra (Buddhism)", "text": "Saṃsāra (Buddhism)\n\nSaṃsāra (Sanskrit, Pali; also \"samsara\") in Buddhism is the beginningless cycle of repeated birth, mundane existence and dying again. Samsara is considered to be \"dukkha\", unsatisfactory and painful, perpetuated by desire and \"avidya\" (ignorance), and the resulting karma.\n\nRebirths occur in six realms of existence, namely three good realms (heavenly, demi-god, human) and three evil realms (animal, ghosts, hellish). Samsara ends if a person attains nirvana, the \"blowing out\" of the desires and the gaining of true insight into impermanence and non-self reality.\n\nIn Buddhism, \"saṃsāra\" is the \"suffering-laden cycle of life, death, and rebirth, without beginning or end\". In several suttas of the Samyutta Nikaya's chapter XV in particular it's said \"From an inconstruable beginning comes transmigration. A beginning point is not evident, though beings hindered by ignorance and fettered by craving are transmigrating & wandering on\". It is the never ending repetitive cycle of birth and death, in six realms of reality (\"gati\", domains of existence), wandering from one life to another life with no particular direction or purpose. Samsara is characterized by \"dukkha\" (\"unsatisfactory,\" \"painful\"). Every rebirth is temporary and impermanent. In each rebirth one is born and dies, to be reborn elsewhere in accordance with one's own karma. It is perpetuated by one's \"avidya\" (\"ignorance\"), particularly about \"anicca\" and \"anatta\", and from craving. Samsara continues until moksha is attained by means of insight and nirvana. the \"blowing out\" of the desires and the gaining of true insight into impermanence and non-self reality.\n\nThe Saṃsāra doctrine of Buddhism asserts that while beings undergo endless cycles of rebirth, there is no changeless soul that transmigrates from one lifetime to another - a view that distinguishes its Saṃsāra doctrine from that in Hinduism and Jainism. This no-soul (no-self) doctrine is called the \"Anatta\" or \"Anatman\" in Buddhist texts.\n\nThe early Buddhist texts suggest that Buddha faced a difficulty in explaining what is reborn and how rebirth occurs, after he innovated the concept that there is \"no self\" (\"Anatta\"). Later Buddhist scholars, such as the mid-1st millennium CE Pali scholar Buddhaghosa, suggested that the lack of a self or soul does not mean lack of continuity; and the rebirth across different realms of birth – such as heavenly, human, animal, hellish and others – occurs in the same way that a flame is transferred from one candle to another. Buddhaghosa attempted to explain rebirth mechanism with \"rebirth-linking consciousness\" (\"patisandhi\").\n\nThe mechanistic details of the Samsara doctrine vary within the Buddhist traditions. Theravada Buddhists assert that rebirth is immediate while the Tibetan schools hold to the notion of a bardo (intermediate state) that can last up to forty-nine days before the being is reborn.\n\nBuddhist cosmology typically identifies six realms of rebirth and existence: gods, demi-gods, humans, animals, hungry ghosts and hells. Earlier Buddhist texts refer to five realms rather than six realms; when described as five realms, the god realm and demi-god realm constitute a single realm.\n\nThe six realms are typically divided into three higher realms (good) and three lower realms (evil). The three higher realms are the realms of the gods, demi-gods, and humans; the three lower realms are the realms of the animals, hungry ghosts and hell beings. The six realms are organized into thirty one levels in east Asian literature. Buddhist texts describe these realms as follows:\n\n\n\nSamsara is perpetuated by one's karma, which is caused by craving and ignorance (\"avidya\").\n\nSamsara is perpetuated by karma. Karma or 'action' results from an intentional physical or mental act, which causes a future consequence. Gethin explains:\nIn the Buddhist view, therefore, the type of birth one has in this life is determined by actions or \"karma\" from the previous lives; and the circumstances of the future rebirth are determined by the actions in the current and previous lives.\n\nInconsistencies in the oldest texts show that the Buddhist teachings on craving and ignorance, and the means to attain liberation, evolved, either during the lifetime of the Buddha, or thereafter. According to Frauwallner, the Buddhist texts show a shift in the explanation of the root cause of samsara. Originally craving was considered to be the root cause of samsara, which could be stilled by the practice of \"dhyana\", leading to a calm of mind which according to Vetter \"is\" the liberation which is being sought.\n\nThe later Buddhist tradition considers ignorance (\"avidya\") to be the root cause of samsara. Avidya is misconception and ignorance about reality, leading to grasping and clinging, and repeated rebirth. According to Paul Williams, \"it is the not-knowingness of things as they truly are, or of oneself as one really is.\" It can be overcome by insight into the true nature of reality. In the later Buddhist tradition \"liberating insight\" came to be regarded as equally liberating as the practice of \"dhyana\". According to Vetter and Bronkhorst, this happened in response to other religious groups in India, who held that a liberating insight was an indispensable requisite for \"moksha\", liberation from rebirth.\n\nThe ideas on what exactly constituted this \"liberating insight\" evolved over time. Initially the term \"prajna\" served to denote this \"liberating insight.\" Later on, \"prajna\" was replaced in the suttas by the four truths. This happened in those texts where \"liberating insight\" was preceded by the four jhanas, and where this practice of the four jhanas then culminates in \"liberating insight.\" The four truths were superseded by \"pratityasamutpada\", and still later, in the Hinayana schools, by the doctrine of the non-existence of a substantial self or person. And Schmithausen states that still other descriptions of this \"liberating insight\" exist in the Buddhist canon: \nSamsara ends when one attains \"moksha\", liberation. In early Buddhism, Nirvana, the \"blowing out\" of desire, is \"moksha\". In later Buddhism insight becomes predominant, for example the recognition and acceptance of non-self, also called the anatta doctrine. One who no longer sees any soul or self, concludes Walpola Rahula, is the one who has been liberated from the samsara suffering cycles. The theme that Nirvana is non-Self, states Peter Harvey, is recurring in early Buddhist texts.\n\nSome Buddhist texts suggest that rebirth occurs through the transfer of \"vinnana\" (consciousness) from one life to another. When this consciousness ceases, then liberation is attained. There is a connection between consciousness, karmic activities, and the cycle of rebirth, argues William Waldron, and with the destruction of vinnana, there is \"destruction and cessation of \"karmic activities\" (anabhisankhara, S III, 53), which are considered in Buddhism to be \"necessary for the continued perpetuation of cyclic existence.\"\n\nWhile Buddhism considers the liberation from samsara as the ultimate spiritual goal, in traditional practice, Buddhists seek and accumulate merit through good deeds, donations to monks and various Buddhist rituals in order to gain better rebirths rather than nirvana.\n\nAccording to Chogyam Trungpa the realms of samsara can refer to both \"psychological states of mind and physical cosmological realms\".\n\nGethin argues, rebirth in the different realms is determined by one's karma, which is directly determined by one's psychological states. The Buddhist cosmology may thus be seen as a map of different realms of existence and a description of all possible psychological experiences. The psychological states of a person in current life lead to the nature of next rebirth in Buddhist cosmology.\n\nPaul Williams acknowledges Gethin's suggestion of the \"principle of the equivalence of cosmology and psychology,\" but notes that Gethin is not asserting the Buddhist cosmology is really all about current or potential states of mind or psychology. The realms in Buddhist cosmology are indeed realms of rebirths. Otherwise rebirth would always be into the human realm, or there would be no rebirth at all. And that is not traditional Buddhism, states Williams.\n\nDavid McMahan concludes that the attempts to construe ancient Buddhist cosmology in modern psychological terms is modernistic reconstruction, \"detraditionalization and demythologization\" of Buddhism, a sociological phenomenon that is seen in all religions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163204", "title": "Secret identity", "text": "Secret identity\n\nA secret identity is a person's alter ego which is not known to the general populace, most often used in fiction. Brought into popular culture by the Scarlet Pimpernel in 1903, the concept is particularly prevalent in the American comic book genre, and is a more genre-specific version of the broader trope of the masquerade.\n\nIn American comic books, a character typically has dual identities, with one identity being the superhero persona and the other being the secret identity. The secret identity is typically the superhero's civilian persona when they are not assuming the superhero persona. It is kept hidden from their enemies and the general public to protect themselves from legal ramifications, pressure, or public scrutiny, as well as to protect their friends and loved ones from harm secondary to their actions as superheroes.\n\nThe secret identity commonly consists of the superhero's given birth name and may involve an occupation they had before becoming a superhero. This is in contrast to the superhero identity, which often utilizes a pseudonym and sometimes a mask to complete a costume to conceal the superhero's secret identity. To help further preserve the anonymity of secret identities, characters may use eyeglasses, particular clothing, or display a different set of personal characteristics when assuming the secret identity persona. For example, the superhero Batman's secret identity is Bruce Wayne, a billionaire who is known to the public for his affluent playboy lifestyle. Another example is Superman, who does not wear a mask when he is in costume, but wears eyeglasses and appears mild-mannered when he assumes his secret identity of Clark Kent.\n\nTypes of characters that may have secret identities include heroes, superheroes, thieves, villains, supervillains, vigilantes, aliens, and \"monsters\". A character may have several secret identities simultaneously, such as adopted names or undercover identities.\n\nMyth and legend is filled with stories of gods or heroes who took on other identities for various purposes. A significant precursor to the 20th century concept of a secret identity in fiction is \"The Count of Monte Cristo\" (1844) by Alexandre Dumas, a huguely popular story which was frequently dramatized in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In this story, the protagonist Edmund Dantes takes on the identity of the mysterious Count of Monte Cristo in order to carry out his plan of revenge against the men who were responsible for his downfall and imprisonment. \nThe modern popular culture use of secret identities begins in the early 20th century with characters such as the Scarlet Pimpernel (1903), Jimmie Dale, the Gray Seal (1914), Zorro (1919), and the Lone Ranger (1933). A line in the novel \"The Scarlet Pimpernel\" reads, \"Because the Scarlet Pimpernel works in the dark, and his identity is only known under the solemn oath of secrecy to his immediate followers.\" The Scarlet Pimpernel is the name of a chivalrous Englishman, Sir Percy Blakeney, who exhibits characteristics that would become standard superhero conventions, including the penchant for disguise, use of a signature weapon (sword), ability to out-think and outwit his adversaries, and a calling card (he leaves behind a scarlet pimpernel at each of his interventions). By drawing attention to his alter ego Blakeney he hides behind his public face as a slow thinking foppish playboy (like Bruce Wayne), and he also establishes a network of supporters, The League of the Scarlet Pimpernel, that aid his endeavours.\n\nStarting in the 1930s, the concept of crime-fighters, superheroes, and vigilantes (and their adversaries) adopting secret identities became more widespread in dime novels, pulp magazines, comic books, old-time radio dramas, movie serials, and other popular fiction and such characters remain popular to this day. Superman appeared in \"Action Comics\" in 1938 as one of the forerunners amongst a list of superhero debuts.\n\nThe artistic purpose of the secret identity on the part of the writers is that it allows the characters to have ordinary lives, which can allow for human drama as well as create tension with the effort needed to preserve the secret. This can include challenges such as throwing off the suspicions of associates who suspect, and the need to quickly improvise means to get out of sight to change identities. And superhuman characters may benefit from an everyman aspect through having a secret identity, giving them a sympathetic link to their audience. For example, Captain Marvel's secret identity is a boy named Billy Batson - a deliberate attempt to play on the daydreams of a young readership.\n\nSome common motivations for a character to keep a secret identity include:\n\nSometimes the distinction as to which persona is the \"real one\" may be blurred or confused, as has sometimes been the case with Clark Kent and Superman. In the earliest Superman comics, Clark's primary purpose was to fulfill the perceived requirement that a superhero cannot remain on full duty all the time and Clark thus acted as little more than a front for Superman's activities. In the television series \"\", after Lois Lane learns that Superman is Clark Kent, he discusses his dual identity with her. \"Clark Kent is not a disguise. Clark is who I am, while Superman is what I do.\" \n\nThe compromises that Clark still needed to make to secure his alter-egos were limited as the Pa Kent of the \"Man of Steel\" comics enthusiastically explains: \n\nBeyond stooping, Clark develops a tendency of avoiding conflict. Sometimes this is in order to allow him to change into his alter ego. while at other times it is to maintain a consistently non-Superman type image. In either case, it opens the \"mild mannered\" reporter to the stigma of cowardice and weakness. Superman's face remains uncovered on the justification that he wants to be trusted by people while Batman wears a mask partly because he wants to be feared by criminals. It has also been suggested that Bruce Wayne is \"the mask\" that Batman wears, meaning that Batman is the true persona, hidden by his public image.\n\nHeroes in this type of situation are known to find their love interests developing interests in and even infatuations for their heroic personas, as a dual identity can have an influence on romantic attraction. Lois Lane found herself attracted to Superman but is fairly indifferent towards Clark Kent and for years bore some resentment towards him. Similarly, Black Cat was madly in love with Spider-Man but was utterly replused by his revelation as Peter Parker, which eventually led to their break-up. Following a reset that erased her memory of his secret identity, Black Cat and Spider-Man have a strictly \"masks-on\" relationship whenever they engage in on-again, off-again romance.\n\nCharacters who experience an actual transformation when changing from one persona may have two relatively genuine identities, albeit with additional possibilities of inner conflict. An example of this is Dr. Robert Bruce Banner who needs to seek genuine calmness in order to prevent transforming into the genuinely raging Hulk. Other characters have abilities that help them conceal their identities such as: shapeshifting or mind control. For instance Marvel's Mystique has an unaltered form with features including blue skin and yellow eyes and yet she has shape shifting and vocal mimicry abilities give her the potential to fit into any required situation. At another extreme characters like He-Man manage to maintain their secret identities with a change of clothes and a tan.\n\nSome characters initially maintain secret identities but discard of them over time. Tony Stark at first told the news media and general public that Iron Man is his personal bodyguard and corporate mascot before he eventually publicly reveals his dual identity. Other characters miss the opportunity to conceal their identities or choose to be public from the very beginning. For instance, the Fantastic Four, who would have always had difficulties concealing the Thing, have typically maintained a public appearance from the Manhattan based Baxter Building. Much like Iron Man, the members of the Fantastic Four have few surviving civilian relatives and most of their friends and loved ones have superhuman abilities they can use to protect themselves from harm.\n\n\nUnless an identity is itself well known, its discovery may not jeopardize the person's safety. For example, the \"Justice League Unlimited\" episode \"The Great Brain Robbery\" features Lex Luthor temporarily body swapping with the Flash (Wally West). When Luthor tries to learn the hero's secret identity by taking off his mask and looking in a mirror, he realizes that he has \"no idea who this is\". If secret identities are to remain secret then others must fail to recognize and subsequently publicize that personas of a character belong to the same person. Identities may be kept secret in a number of ways including: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "41469307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41469307", "title": "Sexing the Body", "text": "Sexing the Body\n\nSexing the Body: Gender Politics and the Construction of Sexuality is a 2000 book by the biologist Anne Fausto-Sterling, in which the author explores the social construction of gender, and the social and medical treatment of intersex people. She stated that in it she sets out to \"convince readers of the need for theories that allow for a good deal of human variation and that integrate the analytical powers of the biological and the social into the systematic analysis of human development.\"\n\nFausto-Sterling mentions the most common types of intersex, congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS), gonadal dysgenesis, hypospadias, and unusual chromosome compositions such as XXY (Klinefelter Syndrome) or X0 (Turner Syndrome).\n\nShe gives John Money's view of intersexuality by stating,: “Intersexuality, in Money's view, resulted from fundamentally ab-normal processes. Their patients required medical treatment because they ought to have become either a male or a female. The goal of treatment was to assure proper psychosexual development by assigning the young mixed-sex child to the proper gender…” Money declared, \"From the sum total of hermaphroditic evidence, the conclusion that emerges is that sexual behavior and orientation as male or female does not have an innate, instinctive basis.” Money is disproved in chapter 3 of Sexing the Body when it is stated that congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) girls tend to manufacture larger amounts of masculine hormones until birth and the production of these male hormones raises the question among scientist of whether or not the excess male hormones that a CAH girl produces has an effect on her brain development.\n\nFausto-Sterling argues surgery on intersex babies should wait until the child can make an informed decision, and label surgery without consent as genital mutilation. In \"Sexing the Body\", Sterling describes the grueling process of transforming an intersex person into the desired sex, and the appearance of a \"densely scarred and immobile penis\" or “extensive suturing [or] skin transplants in such a way that it seems difficult for anyone to endure. Although the decision should be made strictly by the parents without any coercion or influence presented by the doctor, it is ultimately the “physicians who decide how to manage intersexuality”. No matter how impartial they attempt to be, physicians simply “act out of, and perpetuate, deeply held beliefs about male and female sexuality, gender roles, and the (im)proper place of homosexuality in normal development” when performing the necessary surgery for the chosen gender.\n\nFausto-Sterling’s article titled “Of Gender and Genitals: The Use and Abuse of the Modern Intersexual” criticizes the standard model of sex and gender by using the case of intersex individuals by explaining how those individuals are neither male nor female so they do not fit in the sex binary. It is suggested that “bodies… only live within the productive constrains of certain highly regulatory schemas.” People must be “culturally intelligible as males or females”. While the standard model says that sex is biologically determined, Fausto-Sterling challenges this by stating “From the sum total of hermaphroditic evidence, the conclusion that emerges is that sexual behavior and orientation as male or female does not have an innate, instinctive basis.\"\n\nOftentimes, doctors decide the sex of an intersex infant immediately after birth. Doctors choose the sex based on what they believe a male or a female should look like. In essence, society decides what is male or female. Fausto-Sterling portrays how our society puts a great deal of trust in doctors because they are seen as the experts and those who decide what nature tells us. Doctors for decades past have felt the need to immediately “correct” intersex children after birth. Fausto-Sterling states, “The attending physician, realizing that the newborn's genitalia are either/or, neither/both, consults a pediatric endocrinologist (children's hormone specialist) and a surgeon. They declare a state of medical emergency. According to current treatment standards, there is no time to waste in quiet reflection or open-ended consultations with the parents”. Doctors felt that this was a medical emergency because intersex children were seen as abnormal, and because we live in a society based on heternormativity, physicians were pressured to make anything abnormal, normal. Fausto-Sterling mentions that “no masculine women or effeminate men need apply.” These individuals are considered to be “unthinkable, abject, unlivable.” As this belief is deeply rooted in people’s mind, it is essential and imperative for “surgeons, psychologists, and endocrinologists, through their surgical skills, [to] try to make good facsimiles of culturally intelligible bodies.” Contrary to the belief that physicians thought it was vital to immediately decide a sex for an intersex child, evidence shows that just because science chooses a sex for a child that does not guarantee that the child will grow up to “fit” that gender role. For example, the article states, “These individuals seemed to be listening to some inner voice that said that everyone in authority surrounding h/her was wrong. Doctors and parents might have insisted that they were female, removed their testes, injected them with estrogen, and surgically provided them with a vagina, but still, they knew they were really males”. These individuals are the exception to the standard model and a prime example of why the standard model is not relevant. These types of people do not properly fit the sexual dimorphism so a more acceptable categorization would be the alternative model. The alternative model a spectrum with completely male on one side and completely female on the other, leaving room for sexually ambiguous humans to be categorized somewhere in between.\n\nIn \"Of Gender and Genitals\", Anne Fausto-Sterling illustrates how the standard model of the difference between sex and gender can be at times damaging and how it necessitates that doctors’ uphold to certain protocol in order to maintain it. She informs the reader that the extensive surgeries intersex children undergo soon after birth are both “unnecessary and sexually damaging”. Infants, if born intersex, are subjected to a number of considerable surgeries as soon as they are born merely to uphold to society’s standard model. If society’s view changed to that of a gender-sex spectrum, these babies would be given the freedom to choose their own gender when they become of age. Unfortunately that was not the case in the past. Instead, for example, intersex babies, who were chosen to function as a male, experienced multiple surgeries “on their penises during the first couple of years of their lives”. When dealing with the parents of intersex children, doctors must follow certain guidelines so as not to dishearten the parents’ of their children’s normality. Fausto-Sterling specifically references some doctors’ endeavor towards “discouraging any feeling of sexual ambiguity” for their children.\n\nAnne Fausto-Sterling says, \"[o]ur conceptions of the nature of gender difference shape, even as they reflect, the ways we structure our social system and polity; they also shape and reflect our understanding of our physical bodies.\"\n"}
{"id": "32114907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32114907", "title": "Soccket", "text": "Soccket\n\nSOCCKET is a soccer ball that harnesses and stores energy from play for later use as portable power source in resource-poor areas. It is the flagship product of Uncharted Play, Incorporated.\n\nJessica Lin, Julia Silverman, Jessica O. Matthews, Hemali Thakkar, who were at the time undergraduates at Harvard University, and Aviva Presser, who was a Harvard graduate student at the time, were the inventors listed on the initial patent. Prototypes of the ball first appeared in the media in early 2010. The mass-produced version of the ball is the brainchild of Uncharted Play, Inc.--a social enterprise founded by two of the original inventors, Jessica O. Matthews and Julia C. Silverman.\n\nThe Soccket scored on the \"Highbrow\" and \"Brilliant\" quadrant of \"New York's\" \"Approval Matrix\" for the week of February 8, 2010.\n\nThe Soccket has been reported to have broken quickly after the first use by recipients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46391380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46391380", "title": "Stone throwing", "text": "Stone throwing\n\nStone throwing or rock throwing is the act of throwing a stone. When it is directed at another person (called stone pelting in India), it is a form of criminal assault.\n\nThrowing of rocks or stones is one of the most ancient forms of ranged-weapon combat, with slings used to increase the range of such projectiles having been found among other weapons in the tomb of Tutankhamen, who died about 1325 BC. In many places, rocks are readily available as weapons, more so than more sophisticated weapons. Because rocks are dense, hard objects, a forcefully thrown rock can do substantial damage to a target, particularly if the rock has sharp or jagged edges.\n\nHistorically, stoning was used as a method of human execution in several cultures.\n\nRocks thrown at cars moving along highways at high speeds have been a problem in a number of countries. According to Austin, Texas police detective Jarrett Crippen \"When we’re talking about highway speeds of 60, 70 mph, that rock is hitting you full-force... If it's coming through your windshield, it can cause serious damage to the body, vehicle or even death.\" A Washington State trooper said of an arrest of criminal rock-throwers, \"Any one of these rocks could have punctured a windshield, hit the driver in the face and killed them.\" Although the rocks are often thrown from overpasses or high points along the roadside, people riding in cars have also been killed by rocks thrown at random vehicles from passing cars.\nThrown rocks can kill in a number of ways; a rock can hit a passenger directly in the head with lethal force, a rock can strike the driver causing him or her to lose control of the car and crash, the \"jolt and shock of a barrage of stones smashing against the front windshield\" can cause the driver to lose control and crash, or the out of control vehicle can slam into a passing car, causing it to crash.\n\nNotable instances of death and injury caused by rocks thrown at cars include the death of Julie Catherine Laible, a professor at the University of Alabama, the Darmstadt American rock-throwing incident in which American teenagers killed a 20-year-old woman and critically injured her grandmother, then hit another car, killing the 41-year-old mother of 2 small children, the Death of Chris Currie, 20 years old, on a road in New Zealand, the Killing of David Wilkie by striking miners throwing rocks at cars in the United Kingdom, and the I-80 rock throwing in which youths hurled rocks from an overpass on Interstate 80 in Pennsylvania, critically injuring and permanently disfiguring a passenger.. In 2017, a single American highway, Interstate 75, was the scene of 2017 Interstate 75 rock-throwing deaths in two separate incidents.\n\nIn the 18th century, William Blackstone stated that throwing stones in a town or city on a highway, when it caused a death, was to be defined as manslaughter rather than murder.\n\n\nIn Florida, Statewide policy is to install fences on highly trafficked overpasses and those near schools. An exception is Manatee county, where all overpasses have it due to the Interstate 75 rock-throwing death.\n\nThrowing rocks at trains is a long-standing problem in countries including the United States and New Zealand, where passengers and train crews have been injured by large rocks thrown through windows.\n\nMany notorious and deadly riots have begun with rock throwing, or included rock throwing as violence escalated, including the Toronto Jubilee riots, the Boston Massacre, and the 2014 Hrushevskoho Street riots in the Ukraine.\n\nThrowing of stones at Indian Armed Forces and Police is frequent in the Indian province of Kashmir. Usually carried out by youths, in the local language it is called \"Kanni Jung\", which means \"fighting with stones\" and the stone pelters are called as \"Sangbaaz\". There are claims that the rocks are thrown in response to killings of Kashmiri youth at the hands of forces. But as per the Dailymail, India Today Television's underground reporters interviewed some of the stonepelters where stonepelters revealed they are being paid 5000-7000 rupees per month and are being given some clothes and shoes by the Anti-India forces for pelting stones on Indian army.\n\nRock throwing has been in the past often adopted as a method by an unarmed population to protest a governing power's authority. Under English common law, soldiers were not permitted to shoot at civilians engaged in this kind of protest, unless their lives were in danger or they obtained beforehand an express order from a civil magistrate. At one point, when town officials tried to arrest a British officer who was commanding the guard at Boston Neck, Captain Ponsonby Molesworth intervened to confront a stone-throwing crowd. Molesworth ordered the soldiers to bayonet anyone throwing stones who got too close. A Boston justice told him that, under common law, a bayonet thrust was not an act of self-defense against a stone, which was not a lethal weapon. Had a soldier killed anyone, Molesworth could have been tried for his life.'\n\nPolitical demonstrations in many countries have resulted with the arrest of violent protestors for throwing rocks and other objects at police.\n\nRock throwing during riots is a criminal offense, for which rock throwers can be charged with felony crimes, including assault on a law enforcement officer. Incidents of criminal rock throwing havye resulted in arrests during sports riots; especially notable are incidents of rock-throwing football hooliganism.\n\n\nRock-throwing can be used by thieves, as demonstrated by a 2015 case in India in which Ratan Marwadi (45) was charged with throwing rocks at a random passer-by, Darshana Pawar, for the purpose of disabling and robbing her. Pawar was killed. Her murderer, Ratan Marwadi, had previously served time in jail for pelting rail commuters with stones with the intent of robbing them.\n\nIn the 19th century, \"stone throwing\" was defined as a \"nuisance\", one of a number of offenses such as \"kite-flying\" and \"doorbell ringing\" to be handled by bylaws which differed from town to town.\n\n\nRock-throwers on the Mexican side of the border between the United States and Mexico frequently target United States Border Patrol agents with barrages of rocks to prevent them from apprehending individuals illegally crossing the border, particularly smugglers moving illegal drugs or illegal migrants across the border. Between 2010 and 2014 Border Patrol agents were assaulted with rocks 1,700 times, they fired weapons at rock throwers 43 times, resulting in 10 deaths. Border Patrol agents are permitted to respond to rock-throwers with lethal weapons, although as of 2014 policy is that they should attempt to avoid finding themselves in situations where responding to rock-throwing with lethal force becomes necessary.\n\nIn recent years, increasing numbers of undocumented sub-Saharan Africans have passed through Morocco attempting to reach European Union countries, many attempt to enter Spanish soil at two Spanish enclaves, Melilla and Ceuta, located on the African side of the Mediterranean Sea. On several occasions, Moroccan and Spanish border authorities have defended lethal violence against African illegal immigrants near the Melilla border fence and Ceuta border fence by asserting that groups of migrants attempting to storm the border in mass-entry events threw rocks to drive border guards away from the gates.\n\nStone throwing rioters have repeatedly clashed with Egyptian troops at the Egypt-Gaza border.\n\nIn the 2015 Horgoš riot during the European migrant crisis, Illegal immigrants at the Hungarian southern border fence threw rocks and chunks of concrete at Hungarian border police.\n\n"}
{"id": "7371666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7371666", "title": "Structured entity relationship model", "text": "Structured entity relationship model\n\nThe SERM (structured entity relationship model) is an amplification of the ERM which is commonly used for data modeling. It was first proposed from Prof. Dr. Elmar J. Sinz in 1988. The SERM is commonly used in the SAP-world for the data modeling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6586081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6586081", "title": "Taiwanese units of measurement", "text": "Taiwanese units of measurement\n\nTaiwanese units of measurement () are the customary and traditional units of measure used in Taiwan. Many of the units derive from Japanese units of measurement and have similar names as Chinese units of measurement but different conversions than in mainland China or Hong Kong. In some cases these units are used exclusively, in some cases alongside official metric (SI) units, and in other cases they have been supplanted by metric units. Linguistically, practically all Taiwanese units of measure are Chinese classifiers used to classify nouns.\n\nLinear measure in Taiwan is largely metric but some units derived from traditional Japanese units of measurement remain in use as a legacy of Japanese rule.\n\nUnlike with other measures, area continues to be almost commonly measured with traditional units. The principal unit for measuring the floorspace of an office or apartment, the \"ping\" () derives from the Japanese \"tsubo\", the base unit of the Japanese area. Taiwanese units of land measurement derive from both traditional Dutch and Japanese measurements. The principal unit of land measure, the \"jia\" (), derives from the obsolete Dutch \"morgen\", which was introduced during Taiwan's Dutch era. The \"li\" () represented the area that could be farmed by one man with one ox and one plow in one day.\n\n\nOfficially, land area is measured in hectares and square kilometers.\n\nVolume measure in Taiwan is largely metric, with common units such as liter and milliliter.\n\nPackaged goods in Taiwan largely use metric measurements but bulk foodstuffs sold in wet markets and supermarkets are typically measured with units derived from traditional Japanese units of mass, which are similar but not equivalent to corresponding Chinese units of mass. \n\nNote the tael and catty are widely used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21275396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21275396", "title": "Taos Institute", "text": "Taos Institute\n\nThe Taos Institute is an American non-profit association of scholars and practitioners dedicated to exploring social constructionist ideas.\n\nThe Taos Institute provides a newsletter, workshops, and consulting services. Communities of mental health, social work, counseling, organizational change, education, community building, gerontology and medicine contribute to these offerings. The institute also serves as the home for the electronically distributed, \"Positive Aging Newsletter\"and operates its own publishing company: Taos Institute Publications.\n\nThere are presently approximately 500 associates representing over 20 nations.\n\nThe Taos Institute was founded in 1991 by a group of scholars and practitioners interested in social constructionist ideas. The founders included Harlene Anderson, David Cooperrider, Kenneth Gergen, Mary Gergen, Sheila McNamee, Suresh Srivastva, and Diana Whitney. Primary attention was focused at that time on organizational development and family therapy, with practices of appreciative inquiry and co-constructive practices of therapy prevailing. Most of the founders remain on the executive board, but have since been joined by Dawn Dole, Robert Cottor, Sally St. George, Jane Magruder Watkins, and Dan Wulff. The institute currently functions as a virtual centered organization.\n\nThe name of the Institute was derived, in part, from the fact that one of its founders, Diana Whitney, lived in Taos, New Mexico, and provided a geographic center for possible meetings. In 1993, the Institute held its first international conference in Taos.\n\nThe Taos Institute offers a Masters program and a PhD program in Relational Leading. It also offers a distance learning program (in conjunction with the Houston Galveston Institute).\n\n"}
{"id": "13375871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13375871", "title": "The Copernican Revolution (book)", "text": "The Copernican Revolution (book)\n\nThe Copernican Revolution is a 1957 book by the philosopher Thomas Kuhn, in which the author provides an analysis of the Copernican Revolution, documenting the pre-Ptolemaic understanding through the Ptolemaic system and its variants until the eventual acceptance of the Keplerian system.\n\nKuhn argues that the Ptolemaic system provided broader appeal than a simple astronomical system but also became intertwined in broader philosophical and theological beliefs. Kuhn argues that this broader appeal made it more difficult for other systems to be proposed.\n\nKuhn summarized at the end of \"The Copernican Revolution\", citing the permanent achievements of Copernicus and Newton, while comparing the incommensurability of Newtonian physics with Aristotelian concepts that preceded the then new physics. Kuhn also noted that discoveries, such as that produced by Newton, were not in agreement with the prevailing world view during his lifetime.\n\n"}
{"id": "25940561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25940561", "title": "The Power of Half", "text": "The Power of Half\n\nThe Power of Half: One Family's Decision to Stop Taking and Start Giving Back is a book written by Kevin Salwen and his teenage daughter Hannah in 2010.\n\nThe book describes how the Salwen family decided to sell their home so that they could donate half the proceeds to charity. It discusses the initial decision-making, the process of selling the home, making the donation, downgrading to a smaller home, and what they learned in the process. The book details the Salwens' process in choosing a charity partner that would fit their values and effect a lasting change, and how their actions supporting and empowering a village in Ghana differed from their original idea of \"direct involvement\".\n\nThe book details why and how the Salwen family decided to sell their home in 2006. The home was a luxurious, 6,500-square-foot (600-square-meter), 1912 historic dream-house in Ansley Park, in midtown Atlanta, Georgia. It had Corinthian columns, five bedrooms, eight fireplaces, four ornate bathrooms, and a private elevator to Hannah's bedroom.\n\nThe family down-graded by replacing their home with a house that was half as expensive and less than half the size. The Salwens donated half the proceeds ($850,000) of the sale of their original home to The Hunger Project, a charity that works to lessen the hunger of 30,000 rural villagers in over 30 villages in Ghana, and helps them gain self-reliance.\n\nThe book describes the consensus-driven process that the parents and their two children used–over a period of time–to reach the decision to give away half the value of their home, and how they chose the charity from a number of non-profit organizations that they considered. It describes the challenges that the family faced while turning their family project into a reality, from economic ones to keeping the project a secret for a period of time so that they would not appear to be \"freaks\" to their friends.\n\nBefore they embarked on the project, the family members had little contact with one another, other than at meals. Hannah notes that \"The Power of Half\" \"is a relationships book, not really a giving book.\" She feels that the project helped her family grow closer to one another. \"The New York Times Book Review\" notes how the family \"became happier with less—and urges others to do likewise.\"\n\n\"We know that selling a house is goofy, and we recognize that most people can't do it\", admitted Kevin Salwen. \"We never encourage anybody to sell their house. That was just the thing that we had more than enough of. For others it may be time, or lattes, or iTunes downloads, or clothes in their closet. But everyone has more than enough of something.” He clarified:\n\nWe want our kids to be idealistic, but we also say, ‘Let’s not go too nuts here'. We’re not Mother Teresa. We’re not taking a vow of poverty, or giving away half of everything we own. We gave away half of one thing, which happened to be our house. Everybody can give away half of one thing, and put it to use. You’ll do a little bit of good for the world–and amazing things for your relationships.\n\nArchbishop Desmond Tutu praised Hannah and the Salwens for the project, remarking: “We often say that young people must not let themselves be infected by the cynicism of their elders. Hannah inoculated her family with the vision to dream a different world, and the courage to help create it.”\n\nSkeptics criticized them for \"self-promotion\" or for the amount of money they donated to charity. Some critics questioned their choice of charity—finding fault with the family for having donated their money to help needy people in Africa rather than in the United States. Not everyone understood the parents' egalitarian approach with their children, or the family's underlying philosophy. Commented one viewer of a television interview: “What kind of ass clown works his tail off, and busts his hump getting a decent education, only to listen to his kid suggest they give away the house?”\n\nAs Kevin Salwen noted: \"Most people are supportive. And a few are very uncomfortable.\" Asked facetiously whether Hannah, then still in high school, had \"concocted the world's greatest college-admissions ploy\", Kevin laughed and replied: \"No. Anyway, wouldn’t it be the world’s most expensive?\"\n\nReviewing it for \"The Washington Post\", Lisa Bonos wrote that the book, \"soaring in idealism, and yet grounded in realism, can show Americans of any means how best to give back.\" Nicholas D. Kristof, writing in \"The New York Times\", said he found the project \"crazy, impetuous, and utterly inspiring\", and that \"It’s a book that, frankly, I’d be nervous about leaving around where my own teenage kids might find it. An impressionable child reads this, and the next thing you know your whole family is out on the street.\" In the \"Los Angeles Times\", Susan Salter Reynolds wrote: \"You feel lighter reading this book, as if the heavy weight of house and car and appliances, the need to collect these things to feel safe as a family, are lifted and replaced by something that makes much more sense.\"\n\nLili Rosboch wrote for Bloomberg that it \"is an inspiring book about the decision to trade objects for togetherness and the chance to help others.\" Writing in \"Grist\", Jen Harper said that while she was somewhat skeptical before she started the book, the \"compelling and well-written narrative left me both impressed and inspired,\" and that she found the book \"endearing, funny, and uplifting\". Courtney E. Martin wrote in \"The Daily Beast\" that the book \"is highly accessible, sure to be devoured by Oprah devotees and disaffected finance guys hoping for a jolt of optimism.\" Bill Williams of \"The Boston Globe\" called it \"spirited\". Also writing for \"The Boston Globe\", Joseph P. Kahn said \"they’re my new role models\" – after admitting: \"I confess to being fixated on the opposite life formula. Call it the Power of Twice. As in, twice the leisure time, twice the income, twice the sleep. A man can dream, can’t he?\"\n\nThe project inspired others to commit to donating half their money, or half of a possession or income, to charity. In an interview in \"Natural Home Magazine\", Hannah noted that “A number of my friends at Atlanta Girls School have started their own Half projects, including a couple who are donating half of their babysitting money to environmental causes. That’s pretty flattering.\"\n\nRev. Tess Baumberger, the Minister at Unity Church of North Easton, Massachusetts, read the book and announced that in December 2010 the Church would give away half of its Sunday collections to a local charity. Baumberger remarked: \"What will we learn by practicing the power of half? What will this program teach our children and youth? I cannot wait to find out.\"\n\nMelinda Gates, wife of Microsoft founder Bill Gates, said she was inspired by the Salwens' philanthropic efforts. On December 9, 2010, Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg (Facebook's CEO), and investor Warren Buffett signed a promise they called the \"Gates-Buffet Giving Pledge\", in which they promised to donate to charity at least half of their wealth. After launching the Giving Pledge, the Gates invited the Salwens to Seattle for a photo shoot and conversation about The Power of Half.\n\n"}
{"id": "55442598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55442598", "title": "Three-term contingency", "text": "Three-term contingency\n\nThe three-term contingency (also known as the ABC contingency) in operant conditioning describes the relationship between a behavior, its consequence, and the environmental context. The three-term contingency was first defined by B. F. Skinner in the early 1950s. It is often used within ABA to alter the frequency of socially significant human behavior. \n\nThe antecedent stimulus occurs first in the contingency and signals that reinforcement or punishment is available on the contingency of a specific behavior. A discriminative stimuli, or S, directly affects the likelihood of a specific response occurring.\n\nThe behavior, also referred to as the response, is any observable and measurable action a living organism can do. In the three-term contingency, behavior is operant, meaning it changes the environment in some way. \n\nThe consequence to a behavior can be reinforcing or punishing. Reinforcing consequences increase the likelihood of a behavior occurring in the future; it is further divided into positive and negative reinforcement. Punishing consequences decrease the likelihood of a behavior occurring in the future; like reinforcement, it is divided into positive and negative punishment.\n\nThe effectiveness and value of a consequence is determined by the motivating operations the organism has. For example, deprivation of food can make food more effective as a consequence, and the satiation of hunger can make food less effective as a consequence.\n"}
{"id": "3126119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3126119", "title": "Tschandala", "text": "Tschandala\n\nTschandala (old German transcription of \"chandala\") is a term Friedrich Nietzsche borrowed from the Indian caste system, where a Tschandala is a member of the lowest social class. Nietzsche's interpretation and use of the term relied on a flawed source but was used by some interpreters to connect him to Nazi ideology.\n\nNietzsche uses the term \"Tschandala\" in the \"Götzen-Dämmerung\" (\"Twilight of the Idols\") and \"Der Antichrist\" (\"The Antichrist\"). Here he uses the \"law of Manu“ with its caste system as an example of one kind of morality, of \"breeding\", as opposed to the Christian version of morality which attempts to \"tame\" man. \n\nAt first, Nietzsche describes methods of Christian attempts to \"improve\" humanity. As a metaphor, he uses a trained beast in a menagerie which is said to be \"improved\", but which in reality has lost vitality and is only weakened. In just such a way, Nietzsche says, has Christianity \"tamed\" the Teutonic races.\n\nThe law of Manu, on the other hand, tries to \"improve\" humanity by creating 4 castes of people, while ostracizing and making life miserable for the Tschandala, the untouchables. Nietzsche deplores this type of morality, that of the \"breeder,\" just as he does the (Christian) \"animal tamer\", as he is opposed to all 'morality'. However, he much prefers it to the Christian \"slave-morality.\" In his view, the humiliating and oppressive edicts against the Tschandala are a defensive means of keeping the castes pure:\n\nYet this organization too found it necessary to be \"terrible\"—this time not in the struggle with beasts, but with their counter-concept, the unbred man, the mishmash man, the chandala. And again it had no other means for keeping him from being dangerous, for making him weak, than to make him \"sick\"—it was the fight with the \"great number.\n\nAccording to Nietzsche, Christianity is a product of Judaism, the \"Tschandala-religion\". By this he means that Judaism and Christianity after it are the morality born of the hatred of the oppressed (like the Tschandala) for their oppressors:\n\nChristianity, sprung from Jewish roots and comprehensible only as a growth on this soil, represents the \"counter-movement\" to any morality of breeding, of race, privilege:—it is the \"anti-Aryan\" religion par excellence. Christianity, the revaluation of all Aryan values, the victory of chandala values, the gospel preached to the poor and base, the general revolt of all the downtrodden, the wretched, the failures, the less favored, against \"race\": the undying chandala hatred as the \"religion of love\"...\n\nIn \"The Antichrist\", Nietzsche again cites the law of Manu, and favors it in a relative sense to the morality of Judeo-Christianity. Nietzsche describes the \"most spiritual\" and \"strongest\" men who can say \"yes\" to everything, even the existence of the Tschandalas; and opposed to this is the envious and revengeful spirit of the Tschandalas themselves (cf. master-slave morality). Nietzsche also uses the term Tschandala for some of his opponents, e.g. socialism.\n\nNietzsche's source for the law of Manu was the book \"Les législateurs religieux. Manou, Moïse, Mahomet\" (1876) by French writer Louis Jacolliot. According to Annemarie Etter, this translation of the Manusmriti is not reliable and differs widely from other sources. For example, the high respect it gives to women, which Nietzsche quotes in opposition to \"Christian misogyny\", is in fact not contained in any of the usual texts.\n\nIn his description and interpretation of the \"Tschandala\", Nietzsche may have followed a long footnote by Jacolliot, which gives an \"unbelievable, abstruse and scientifically completely untenable\" (Etter) theory. According to Jacolliot, all Semitic peoples, especially the Hebrews, are descendants of emigrated Tschandalas. Although Nietzsche never directly says this, it seems plausible that he believed in Jacolliot's theory at least to some extent, even though, as Etter points out, Nietzsche would have easily been able to falsify several of Jacolliot's pseudo-scientific claims. In so doing, he may have increased the impact of Jacolliot's \"effusive admiration for ancient Eastern wisdom and civilization with a more or less open and pronounced antisemitism and antichristianism\" (Etter).\n\nTerms like \"race\", \"breeding\", \"Aryan\" and others Nietzsche used in his later works were employed by Nazi polemicists who referenced his theories.\n\nThough Nietzsche did use the term \"Übermensch\", \"nowhere\" in his works he used the contrary \"Untermensch\" that in the 20th Century became a concept in Nazi ideology, that was used for races and individuals that it perceived \"inferior\". \n\nInspired by Nietzsche, August Strindberg wrote a novel called \"Tschandala\" in 1889.\n\n"}
{"id": "57296120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57296120", "title": "Women's liberation movement in Asia", "text": "Women's liberation movement in Asia\n\nThe women's liberation movement in Asia was a feminist movement that started in the late 1960s and through the 1970s. Women's liberation movements in Asia sought to redefine women's relationships to the family and the way that women expressed their sexuality. Women's liberation in Asia also dealt with particular challenges that made the liberation movement unique in different countries.\n\nSeveral countries were influenced by Western women's liberation movements, and in the case of China, ideas from the Cultural Revolution actually helped shape women's liberation in the West. Many Asian feminists had to straddle the line between being feminist or being \"Asian.\" In India, the caste system affected the way that women's liberation was approached in that gender and class could rarely be separated. Similarly in Israel, the plight of Palestinian women became important in molding the views of oppression. In Japan, the movement focused on sexuality rather than equality, in an attempt to gain recognition for women's autonomy and freedom to choose their own social roles. In Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan, the liberationist movement was inspired by the world-wide movement for women's liberation and typically combined the fight against sexism with the struggle against colonialism and economic exploitation. Turkey came to the women's liberation movement later than other countries and was influenced by feminists from other countries and also by Islamic women. Turkey's struggle for women's liberation was centered around the issue of domestic violence.\n\nWomen's status in China during the twentieth century were tied closely to the Communist Revolution there and women's social status rose quickly. Initially, Chinese people believed that the Communist Revolution would end patriarchy. During the Cultural Revolution, women were celebrated through slogans like \"Women Hold Up Half the Sky\", while simultaneously they were discouraged from discussing gender issues, which was seen as \"reactionary\". In the 1970s, new institutions that benefited and were staffed by women were created, including cafeterias, kindergartens, and nurseries. Women's rights were managed by the state itself and there was no independent feminist movement during the period. However, many of the ideas created during the revolution went on to influence women's movements in the West, as radical feminists often were politically aligned on the left. In the polarized camps of the Cold War period, socialists turned from emulating Soviet communism in the wake of Stalinist purges and invasions. Western feminists after 1960 based key ideals on Maoist theory. Slogans such as \"workers of the world unite\" turned into \"women of the world unite\" and key features like consciousness-raising and egalitarian consensus-based policies \"were inspired by similar techniques used in China\".\n\nPolitics in India became radicalized in the late 1960s with numerous special interests groups forming to address corruption and the economic crisis brought about by destructive development. By the 1970s, drought in the Maharashtra state worsened conditions for many. Peaking in 1974 with encouragement from the Navnirman Movement, women in diverse classes began to engage in direct actions to challenge leadership. The idea of \"women's liberation\" became a \"respectable topic\" in India starting in the 1970s. Women began to see that legal protections were doing very little to change the reality of their lives. Rural women who lived in poverty began to see themselves as doubly disadvantaged: both economically and through their lower social status. Women in lower castes, such as Dalits, realized that they had to fight a class battle, as well as a battle against sexism. However, most women participating in the women's liberation movement in the 1970s were middle class or part of the upper caste, and were urban and educated.\n\nThe Women's Federation of Kerala had grown to 100,000 members by 1970 and the Ganatantrik Mahila Samiti (Democratic Women's Organization) held a state conference in April 1973 in West Bengal that drew 121,632 members from nearly every district. In 1974, organizations such as the Women's Anti-Price-Rise movement in Maharashtra, the Progressive Organization of Women (POW) of Hyderabad, and the Stree Mukti Sanghatana of Bombay formed, with women joining these leftist organizations in greater numbers. The first Democratic Women's Union conference was held in Tamil Nadu in December 1974. Student unrest and protest in Delhi sparked women to create their own human rights movement.\n\nCreating small groups in such places as Banglore, Bombay, Delhi, Hyderabad, Madras, and Pune, the women's groups that formed in the period were averse to authoritarian structure and utilized a collective approach to decision-making. To challenge patriarchal power in personal and political spheres, they published and reproduced articles from other countries on Women's Liberation developments throughout the world. These loosely affiliated groups networked by circulating their publications in English, as well as regional languages. In Maharashtra, differing from other areas, meetings crossed caste and class divides, including students, laborers, blue collar workers, and white collar employees. Focusing on direct action, women in these groups protested official policy in various ways. For example, an influential street performance \"Om Swaha\" enacted by \"Stree Mukti Sanghatana\" members became iconic, galvanizing women to work against dowry deaths.\n\nPublication of the report \"Towards Equality\" in 1974 and 1975 as part of the United Nations survey on the Status of Women, revealed that women's participation in economic and political life had declined in post-Independent India. Unlike the western counterparts of the WLM, sexuality was a taboo topic in the era, though sexual violence became a focus. As such, lesbians were part of the movement, but sexual orientation was largely a private matter. In like manner, liberationists were characterized as disruptive to class-based activists who firmly believed that elimination of class differences would solve women's problems. In 1981, a group \"Sachetana\" was formed by activists in Calcutta with the goal of raising the consciousness of its members and other women. Their initial public protest was production of a play, \"Meye Dile Shajiye\", written by member Malini Bhattacharya to protest selling brides. Unaffiliated with any political party, the group became a safe space for women of varying beliefs and political ties to openly express and discuss issues criticizing government policy and patriarchy.\n\nAfter The Emergency ended in 1977 in India, membership in the women's movement swelled, which predominantly consisted up to that time of the organized, disciplined, hierarchically-structured, party-affiliated groups or the leaderless, inclusive and chaotic, but autonomous groups loosely affiliated with the political left. The 1980 Forum Against Rape, held in Bombay at Cama Hall, marked a point where activists realized that multi-dimensional struggle focusing on both legal reform and raising awareness was necessary to combat systemic issues and different factions of feminists began to come together to solve issues.\n\nThe women's liberation movement in Israel was initiated in the early 1970s by two American immigrants at the University of Haifa, Marcia Freedman and Marylin Safir who had both been involved in feminist activities in the United States. Seminars they held in Haifa on how women suffered from a male-dominated society quickly inspired radical activities in Tel-Aviv and Jerusalem. The first liberationist group formed in 1972, spawning formation of consciousnesses-raising groups which used direct actions as a means of addressing women's issues. Women's studies emerged which highlighted the historical contributions of Israeli women. Freedman commented: \"It really wasn't that difficult translating American feminism to Israel, with many of the same issues: the ability of women to work outside the house, abortion and issues of women controlling their bodies, although on Israel a very common response was that no women's movement was needed because Israeli women were already 'liberated'.\"\n\nIn 1972, the radical \"Nilahem\" movement (based on an acronym meaning Women for a Renewed Society) was formed, attracting interest throughout the country with stands against legal inequality and the suffering of the Palestinians. During the 1973 Yom Kippur War, women found themselves excluded from the civilian administration, and both the military and war production efforts, being relegated to treating the wounded and supporting families. Though short in duration, the conflict brought into focus an awareness of the segregated roles of women and men in society. That same year, Freedman became the first openly feminist member of the Knesset, supporting the Civil Rights Movement. Jerusalem liberationists saw in the movement a way to fight against all oppression, including that of the poor and Palestinians. They led actions over poor wages, women working at night, and violence against women, as well as the right to control decisions over reproduction, as did activists in Haifa and Tel Aviv.\n\nWomen's centers sprang up in metropolitan areas and by 1975, translated anthologies of US and European texts were appearing regularly in Israel. Various feminist publications appeared in the mid-1970s including \"Women as Human Beings\" by Shulamit Aloni. The feminist periodical \"Nogah\" began publication in 1980. In 1976, WLM members, led by Freeman, made headlines when they invaded a gynecological conference at the Hilton Tel Aviv to protest the position on abortion and were evicted by police. In 1977, the first women's shelter in Israel was founded in Haifa and the first rape crisis center was opened in Tel Aviv. That same year, a feminist publishing group \"The Second Sex\" was created and the lesbian liberationist group \"Aleph\" was founded, which led to the hosting of the first lesbian feminist conference the following year in Beersheba. By the end of the 1970s, the movement was fracturing in Israel and Aleph disbanded in 1980.\n\nIn Japan, the woman's liberation movement was known as \"ũman ribu\", marking a new social and political direction for women in Japan. The name \"ũman ribu\" was itself a transliteration of English for \"women's lib\" and was meant to show \"both the activists' solidarity with other women's liberation movements around the world and their specificity as a new Japanese women's movement\". \"Ūman ribu\" differed from Western women's liberation movements in that the goals were not about equal rights, but more focused on women's roles in Japan and \"called for liberation from their sex,\" which is known as \"sei no kaihō\".\n\nWomen in the movement felt that dealing with sexual desire (\"seiyoku\") was important and defining for the movement itself. Women such as Iwatsuki Sumie (also known as Asatori Sumie), wrote about menstruation taboos. She was also instrumental in creating women's spaces and was known for her advocacy of lesbian relationships. Activist, Yonezu Tomoko, started \"Thought Group SEX\", which also explored disability and sexual liberation. Sexual liberation for Tomoko and Tanaka didn't mean \"free sex\" (\"furii sekkusu\"), but instead focused on a liberation of women's sexuality. In addition, the sense of autonomy over their own bodies meant that \"ũman ribu\" activist opposed efforts to restrict abortion and which emphasized creating a society where women \"want to give birth\".\n\nWomen in Japan were considered \"second-class citizens in society in general, within social movements [...], and in the family\". Women involved in the movement were critical both of the literal modern family system and also of political movement that attempted to frame women's roles in politics in familial terminology. Within the movement, Japanese women also attempted to rehabilitate the word, \"onna,\" for woman, which had become a derogatory way to refer to women, but one that did not have familial connotations. Women involved in this women's liberation movement felt that they were different from people who were \"feminisuto\" (feminist) which they felt only applied to academics involved in women's studies. Many of the women involved in the \"ũman ribu\" movement were young and had been involved in New Left groups in the 1960s.\n\nGroups began to appear in cities throughout Japan in April 1970. These groups were not hierarchical and had no central leadership. Starting in late 1970, an organization called \"Gurũpu tatakau onna\" (Group of Fighting Women) began to work towards women's liberation throughout Japan. Women met to discuss Tanaka Mitsu's work, \"Liberation from the Toilet\" and also to advocate for a change in laws. Tanaka chose to use the word \"toilet\" because women could be described as \"little more than repositories of men's bodily fluids,\" or metaphorically speaking, as a convenience to men. Another \"ũman ribu\" publication was \"Onna erosu\", which started in the 1970s and had a diverse perspective on social movements. The \"ũman ribu\" anthology for women in Japan came out in 1972 and was called \"Onna's Thought\". The first public rally for \"ũman ribu\" took place on International Anti-War Day, October 21, 1970. In 1973, Tokyo activists created a public demonstration against Mother's Day. The activists had a banner that read \"Mother's Day, what a laugh!\" and critiqued the value of mothers, wives and children in Japanese society.\n\nCommunes were started by \"ũman ribu\" activists in the early 1970s throughout Japan, including the best-known commune of Ribu Shinjuku Centre in Tokyo. Various groups, including the \"Gurũpu tatakau onna,\" Thought Group SEX, Tokyo Komu-unu, Alliance of Fighting Women and Scarlet Letter helped establish the Ribu Shinjuku Centre. The Centre was not only a central location for organizing and communicating, but also served as women's shelter. The women's liberation movement in Japan continued past the 1970s, but not with using the same terminology and methods.\n\nNalla Tan called for a council of women to be formed to advocate for women's rights in Singapore in 1972. The women's liberation movement in Singapore was energized in 1975, during the observance of the International Women's Year. That same year the National Council of Women (NCW) was formed in order to coordinate the activities of women's groups in the country and to help end discrimination against women. In 1983, the \"Great Marriage Debate\" began a conversation about eugenics, motherhood and the need for feminism in Singapore. Young people were encouraged to marry and have children by the government which was worried about the falling fertility rate in the country. The National University of Singapore Society held a forum in November 1984 that responded to the issues raised in the \"Great Marriage Debate.\" Zaibun Siraj and Vivienne Wee organized the forum called \"Women's Choices, Women's Lives\" and brought speakers such as Kanwaljit Soin, Hedwig Anuar and Margaret Thomas.\n\nThe first feminist organization in Singapore, the Association of Women for Action and Research (AWARE) was created in 1985 in response to the issues raised at the \"Women's Choices, Women's Lives\" forum. Members of AWARE were concerned about not being associated with negative stereotypes of feminism and balanced their feminism with \"Asian values.\" AWARE publicly focused on issues they called \"women's rights\" and \"gender inequality\". They did not explicitly or publicly blame women's roles in society on men, but rather as \"product of history and tradition,\" and that gender inequality affected both men and women in society. Privately and in unpublished reports, members thought of themselves as feminists.\n\nThe first women's organizations in South Korea arose from worker's struggles under the dictatorship of Park Chung-hee and were focused on poor working conditions and exploitation of women in the family under a system which required women to work to pay for their brothers' educations and support their families. In 1975, Yi Hyo-jae (), a professor at Ewha Womans University (EWU) began to criticize existing women's organizations in Korea as being too focused on legal change for women rather than liberation of women from societal ideas of what women should be. As western literature, like \"The Second Sex\" by Simone de Beauvoir and then \"The Feminine Mystique\" by Betty Friedan and \"Sexual Politics\" by Kate Millett were translated into Korean in 1973, followed by \"Woman's Estate\" by Juliet Mitchell, Korean intellectuals had become aware of the ideas of radical feminists. By 1977, a women's studies department was established at EWU. The development of the course utilized students' input and also requested material relating to the courses from 150 universities in the United States with women's studies classes. The women's studies department was criticized for relying too heavily on Western ideas, but there was a \"strong interest\" from students in the classes. The feminist movement, known as Minjung feminism, which developed in South Korea in the 1980s merged worker concerns with liberationist ideas within the broader fight against dictatorship.\n\nOne of Taiwan's feminists, Hsiu-lien Annette Lu, was inspired by the women's liberation movement in the United States. In 1974, Lu published \"New Feminism\" which advocated for women to come together to end \"the dominant patriarchal paradigm\". Yang Mei-hui translated Margaret Mead's \"Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies\" (1935), which introduced the concept of gender role formation to Chinese-speaking women in Taiwan. This translation was also an influence on Lu, whose followers established the Awakening Foundation and began publishing the \"Awakening Magazine\" in 1982. Lu also wove Confucian philosophy into her feminist discourse to promote a cultural basis for addressing double-standards for men and women. By utilizing maxims such as \"Do not impose on others what you yourself do not desire\", she developed the theme of mutual respect for women.\n\nStudent movements focusing on anti-imperialism began to appear in Turkey in the 1960s and leftist movements began to form in the 1970s. However, women's concerns were not dealt with by many of these groups and women were actively discouraged from discussing them. The women's liberation movement really began to flourish in the 1980s. Women who had been involved in these leftist groups started to talk about feminism and created consciousness-raising groups where they shared their own experiences as women with one another. Many of the early feminists in Turkey were educated, often professional, middle class and who had links to feminists in other countries. Because of women's very marginalized position in Turkey, the movement went unnoticed until \"a substantial, organized feminist movement grew out of these small groups.\" One of the significant groups was called \"Kadin Çevresi\" (Women's Circle). \"Kadin Çevresi\" translated and published books by significant feminist writers. Translations were also published on the feminist page of \"Somut\", a weekly magazine, which began in 1983. As the books become translated, women would form book clubs and hold book discussions. In addition to translating, women were also bringing new words into the Turkish language to describe issues they dealt with, such as \"male domination\" (\"erkek egemenliği\"), creating a feminist language that could help the movement grow. Women in the movement criticized the Kemalist model of modernity in Turkey and focused on how women are forced to play roles within this modern world. Muslim women were also involved in the movement, encouraging women of the Islam faith to speak out about their experiences. Secular feminists and Islamic women in Turkey had an influence on each other during this time. Some, like described herself as \"a feminist with faith.\" Secular feminists who were involved in the journal, \"Pazartesi\", were supportive of Muslim women \"who wanted to redefine their identities as women.\"\n\nBy the mid 1980s, women were holding WLM protests in Istanbul and Ankara. These feminists were united around the issue of domestic violence instead of abortion, since abortion was already legal in Turkey. Activists kept track of court proceedings that \"gave explicit legitimacy to domestic violence\" and protested either by sending letters to the judge or by setting up rallies. There was \"enthusiastic turnout\" for a protest organized in May 1987 against domestic violence and the government's lack of action towards the issue. A following event, a \"1 day festival in October of the same year\" helped boost women's confidence in their actions.\n\nThe women's movement of the 1980s allowed feminist policies and groups to continue to grow in the 1990s and 2000s. The Women's Library and Information Center and the Purple Roof Women's Shelter Foundation were both founded in 1990. Purple Roof worked hard to maintain autonomous control and rejected attempts of the state to \"subvert the feminist meaning of their endeavor.\" One of the major contributors and founders of Purple Roof is Canan Arin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57409122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57409122", "title": "Women human rights defenders", "text": "Women human rights defenders\n\nWomen human rights defenders (WHRDs) are women who defend human rights, and defenders of all genders who defend the rights of women and rights related to gender and sexuality. Their work and the challenges they face have been recognized by a United Nations (UN) resolution in 2013, which calls for specific protection for women human rights defenders. \n\nThe United Nations' resolution deals with human rights and resolutions to issues that are presented at hand. It should be noted that the resolutions developed are intended to be implemented into the communities of the world but not legally enforceable under law.\n\nA woman human rights defender can be an Indigenous woman fighting for the rights of her community, a woman advocating against torture, an LGBTQI rights campaigner, a sex workers’ rights collective, or a man fighting for sexual and reproductive rights.\n\nLike other human rights defenders, women human rights defenders can be the target of attacks as they demand the realization of human rights. They face attacks such as discrimination, assault, threats, and violence within their communities. However, women human rights defenders face additional obstacles based on who they are and the specific rights they defend. This means they are targeted just because they are women, LGBTI people or for identifying with their struggles. They also face additional obstacles connected with systemic discrimination and inequality and because they challenge, or are seen to be challenging, patriarchal power and social norms. They are more at risk of facing gender based violence in the home and the community, and sexist, misogynistic, homophobic, trans-phobic threats, smears and stigmatization, as well as exclusion from resources and power. The women that work to fight for human rights have numerous meetings with the UN Human Rights Council in conjunction with the LGBTQI defenders in Uganda who face prejudice and discrimination as well for The Women Human Rights Defenders understand the struggles being endured.\n\nInternational Women Human Rights Defenders Day has been celebrated each 29 November since 2006.\n\n\nThese are some of the WHRDs killed in recent years, because of their human rights activism\n\n\nSee also List of women killed fighting for human rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "27643460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27643460", "title": "Workers (Gong Ren)", "text": "Workers (Gong Ren)\n\nWorkers () is a book of 143 portraits of migrant workers who participated in the construction of the Olympic Green in Beijing, China in the lead up to the 2008 Summer Olympics. The book is the work of British artist Helen Couchman and consists primarily of photographs of the workers on the building site. The workers were photographed with the iconic buildings of the Beijing Olympics: The Beijing National Stadium (国家体育场), known colloquially as the \"Bird's Nest\" (鸟巢), and the Beijing National Aquatics Center (国家游泳中心), also known as the \"Water Cube\" (水立方).\n\nAt the height of its construction, nearly 17,000 workers were involved in building the \"Bird's Nest\". \"Workers 工人\" documents the human side of construction with worker portraits, information on the workers themselves, and details on how Couchman carried out the project. In December 2007, Couchman circumvented security on the Olympic construction site and was able to approach the workers about taking their pictures. She later returned to the site with two copies of each photo, giving each of her subjects one copy to keep and asked the workers to write their name and hometown on the other. Couchman felt that the element of exchange was key to this project.\n\nIn the book's introduction, British art critic Peter Suchin writes that the way Couchman positions the workers at roughly the same spot for each portrait suggests they can also be seen as \"one single portrait, that of `the worker' engaged in the making of the Place of the Games ... the central focus, the essential signifier of the new Beijing\". Photographs from this series were exhibited in London, England and Hong Kong. Discussions of workers' rights have been raised in the context of this book, but it was not Couchman's reason for starting the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "45618386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45618386", "title": "Ximena Zomosa", "text": "Ximena Zomosa\n\nXimena Zomosa (born 1966, Santiago, Chile) is a visual artist and curator who works in contemporary art and conceptual art, whose work demonstrates — from the perspective of gender — a discourse that is fundamentally feminine. She acted in a managerial and curatorial capacity at the Balmaceda Youth Art Gallery, a space for art by emerging Chilean artists.\n\nZomosa studied art at the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile, which complemented her studies at various Chilean universities. Her work is characterized by \"la originalidad mostrada en el empleo de materiales sacados de la vida cotidiana y dispuestos en instalaciones inusuales (...). En su afán transformatorio, es evidente un sentido autobiográfico e irónico frente a lo femenino y lo doméstico\" (\"originality demonstrated in the use of materials from everyday life and displayed in unusual installations (...). In her eager transformation, there is a sense of the autobiographical and irony in the face of that which is feminine and that which is domestic\").\n\nIn 2004, Zomosa received the Altazor Award of the National Arts in the category of Installations and Video Art for \"Colección de la artista\" (\"Artist's Collection\").\n\nThroughout her career, Zomosa has participated in solo exhibitions as well as exhibitions featuring other artists, including V Bienal de Estandartes in Tijuana (2008); \"Concours Matisse 1992,\" \"Concours Matisse 1994,\" and \"II Biennial Premio Gunthe,\" in the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts (1992, 1994, and 1995, respectively); \"Última Generación\" at the (1995), \"Everyday\" at the Art Gallery of New South Wales for the Biennale of Sydney (1998); \"El Lugar dentro\" at the (1999); \"Proyecto de Borde\" at the (1999); \"Project N11, Muro Sur arte chileno contemporáneo\" for the la Biennale of Shanghai (2004); \"Portable Affairs, Project of a Boundary\" at Artspace Sydney Visual Arts Centre in Sydney (2005); and \"Arte Mujer y Compromiso Político\" at the (2009), and other exhibitions in the United States, Latin America, Australia, and Europe.\n"}
