{"id": "54326513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54326513", "title": "Alexander Dimitrov", "text": "Alexander Dimitrov\n\nAlexander Dimitrov () was born in 1973 in Sofia. He holds a master's degree in Electrical Machinery from the Technical University - Sofia and a master's degree in Marketing and Management from the University of National and World Economy in Sofia. In addition, he has an MBA from City University.\n\nAlexander Dimitrov started his career in the cosmetic industry taking various leadership positions in Sarantis Bulgaria (1996 – 1999), Sarantis Czech Republic (1999 – 2000), and Intercosmetics (2000 – 2001).\n\nAlexander Dimitrov is Chief Executive Officer of A1 Bulgaria, formerly known as Mtel, before its rebranding in 2018. He has over 15 years of experience in the telecommunication industry.\n\nAlexander Dimitrov joined Mtel’s team from Vivacom, another Bulgarian telecom, where he was Chief Commercial Officer since 2008. Previously, from 2001 till 2006, he was Commercial Director of Germanos Telecom Bulgaria, a mobile products and services dealers’ chain, and from 2006 till 2008 – a Chief Executive Officer of the company.\n\nHe was named Manager of the Year 2018 in the most prestigious competition for leadership achievements in the Bulgaria. The award was given to him by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev, after months-long process of evaluation and selection of candidates carried out by Deloitte Bulgaria. Alexander Dimitrov took with him two other prizes - the “Viewers’ choice” award by bTV, which was decided by a poll on the media's website and the special “Mission in favor of the society” award, which was given by the “24 Chasa” daily.\n\nAlexander Dimitrov is also a member of the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria's Management Board as of March 2017.\n"}
{"id": "14946973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14946973", "title": "Alexandre Jamar", "text": "Alexandre Jamar\n\nAlexandre Marie Auguste Jamar (6 November 1821 – 15 August 1888) was a Belgian businessman, liberal politician and former governor of the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) from 1882 until 1888. From 1868 to 1870, he was Minister of Public Works, in the government of Walthère Frère-Orban.\n\nBorn in Brussels on 6 November 1821, Jamar started his career at the age of 17, when he became a partner in the family printing business of his brother. Later on he became a commissioner for the ' and had a seat on the first management board of the ' and the \"\".\n\nJamar became a censor at the NBB in 1865 and a member of the discount committee of the NBB. In 1870 he became director of the NBB and in 1882 governor of the National Bank of Belgium. During his time in office he had to deal with the consequences of an economic depression. In addition he had to deal with problems within the Latin Monetary Union, caused by the refusal of Belgium to sign the new convention of 1885. His experience in the printing business resulted in better quality banknotes.\n\nJamar died in Brussels on 15 August 1888.\n\n"}
{"id": "14038128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14038128", "title": "Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers", "text": "Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers\n\nThe Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP) is a trade association based in Sherman Oaks, California that represents over 350 American television and film production companies in collective bargaining negotiations with entertainment industry trade unions that include, among others, SAG-AFTRA, the Directors Guild of America, the Writers Guild of America, West, the Writers Guild of America, East, the American Federation of Musicians, and the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees.\n\nThe AMPTP was founded in 1924 as the Association of Motion Picture Producers, or AMPP. According to \"The Film Encyclopedia\", \"it was renamed the Association of Motion Picture and Television Producers in 1964 to reflect its merger with the Alliance of Television Film Producers [founded in 1951]. In 1975, two members of the Association, Paramount and Universal, left to form a new organization, the Alliance. In 1982, the Alliance and AMPTP. merged to form the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers.\"\n\nAs the entertainment industry's official collective bargaining representative, the AMPTP, like the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), is a key trade association for major film and television producers in the United States. The AMPTP currently negotiates 80 industry-wide collective bargaining agreements on behalf of over 350 motion picture and television producers. AMPTP member companies include the major motion picture studios (including Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures, Twentieth Century Fox, Universal Pictures, Walt Disney Pictures and Warner Bros. Pictures), the principal broadcast television networks (including ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC), certain cable television networks, and other independent film and television production companies.\n\nNick Counter (March 21, 1940 - November 6, 2009) was President of the AMPTP from 1982 until March 2009.\n\nOther former presidents and chairmen have included Joseph Schenck, Lew Wasserman, Jack Valenti and Richard Jencks.\n\nThe current President is Carol Lombardini.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54594603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54594603", "title": "Angelfish software", "text": "Angelfish software\n\nAngelfish Software is an on-premises, self-hosted web analytics application which allows organizations to monitor how users interact with websites and web-based applications. Angelfish can use web server logs or JavaScript page tags to create reports.\n\nFirst released in 2013, Angelfish Software was created in response to Google's cancellation of Urchin and the lack of options that existed for on-premises web analytics software.\nAngelfish is a popular solution for tracking Intranet and SharePoint environments, and has significant interest from organizations that are required to protect website visitor data due to regulations, or cannot use Google Analytics due to data privacy concerns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32194363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32194363", "title": "Annette Nijs", "text": "Annette Nijs\n\nAnette Dorothea Sophia Maria Nijs (born 16 December 1961) is a retired Dutch politician of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD). She was the State Secretary for Education, Culture and Science in the Cabinets Balkenende I and II serving from 22 July 2002 until 9 June 2004. She was a Member of the House of Representatives from 30 January 2003 until 27 May 2003 and from 7 June 2005 until 30 November 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "29025064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29025064", "title": "Arthur Buchardt", "text": "Arthur Buchardt\n\nArthur Buchardt (born 15 June 1948), is a Norwegian investor who mainly invests in hotel projects. He has been married to Wenche Myhre.\n\nIn 1948, Buchardt was born in Drammen, however he spent the majority of his childhood and was raised in Nesodden and in Brumunddal. He went to school at the Norwegian School of Management and eventually graduated. Buchardt has been married twice, one of his marriages was to Wenche Myhre; it lasted four years. Starting in 1989, Buchardt's contributions to the hotel real estate industry was mainly limited to design and investment. In 1994, Buchardt had finished a hotel in Lillehammer that proved to be immensely necessary for the lodging needs of the Olympic tourists. He now owns a real estate investment company with his son, Anders Buchardt, called AB Invest.\n\n"}
{"id": "31343688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31343688", "title": "Bayard Dodge", "text": "Bayard Dodge\n\nBayard Dodge (1888–1972) was an Islamic scholar and president of the American University in Beirut. \n\nThe son of Cleveland Hoadley Dodge and Grace Wainwright Parish, he graduated from Princeton University in 1909. \n\nIn 1923 Dodge succeed his father-in-law, Howard Bliss, to become the president of the university, that had formerly been known as \"The Syrian Protestant College\". His great uncle, Reverend David Stuart Dodge, had been one of the first professors to teach at the faculty in the 1860s.\n\nAfter his retirement from the presidency in 1948 he continued teaching at several universities. His son, David S. Dodge, later served the same role.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42758054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42758054", "title": "Carlos Molinari", "text": "Carlos Molinari\n\nCarlos Juan Molinari is an Argentinian businessman and real-estate developer who runs a firm called Real Estate Investments (REI) Sociedad Fiduciaria, also known as Rei Fiduciaria. He also runs many other firms in Argentina, the U.S., and elsewhere, and resides in Buenos Aires and Miami.\n\nMolinari described himself in 2011 during a brief foray into electoral politics as “a businessman who believes in social justice,”. He is a longtime associate of the Kirchner family and a key figure in the so-called K money trail, the 2013 political scandal centering on acts of embezzlement and money laundering by persons connected to the presidential administrations of Nestor Kirchner and Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner.\n\nMolinari has been described as the “son of a trade unionist” and as being “of humble origins.”\n\nHe is president of Real Estate Investments (REI) Sociedad Fiduciaria, which manages real estate in Argentina, including the 68-hectare Hudson Park in Berazategui. Hudson Park, “an exclusive gated community,” has been described as Molinari’s “beloved child.” It includes houses, a condo-hotel, and shops, all built at an investment of around $30 million.”\n\nIn the U.S., Molinari is the President of Global Development Consultant Inc., based in Miami, Florida, and registered in 2009. He is also a Managing Member of Adg Group Holdings, LLC; The New Langford, LLC.; and La Bahia, LLC. In addition, he has served as an officer of several now-inactive U.S. entities, such as the Americas Real Estate Investments Inc., American Condo Hotel Group, Miami Wolf Soccer Team Inc., MDJ Housing Industries Corp., Argentinian Construction Group LLC, and National Argentine American Foundation, Inc.\n\nIn addition to Hudson Park, Molinari has constructed a hotel-condominium development, La Aldea de Pilar, and a project called “La Mansión,” a complex of “VIP towers” in the historical district of Quilmes. Noting that all three of these projects are located in areas governed by Kirchernist politicians, a journalist for Perfil observed that “politics often helps one find more and better opportunities.”\n\nIn March 2013 Molinari was described as being currently engaged in “developing a condo-hotel in a historic downtown building” in “most Latin American cities.” At the time, he was planning to initiate such projects shortly in Punta del Este, Pilar, Bernal, Mar del Plata, and Rosario.\n\nMolinari has built low-cost housing in Haiti out of containers. Molinari explained that this was an ecologically positive activity, given that there are “a lot of unused containers” in ports and that their rusting “causes severe environmental pollution problems... By using this material, we are recovering a toxic waste.”\n\nMolinari was described in 2013 as a gifted analyst of the real-estate market, who in a 2004 conversation with Tomás Regalado, later elected mayor of Miami, predicted the mortgage crisis “when nobody was talking about anything but the euphoria of large investments.”\n\nIt was reported in March 2013 that Molinari had “recently” started work on a 40-hectare Public Industrial Park in Canelones, Uruguay, an investment of $120 million.\n\nMolinari is a director or shareholder of such Argentinian firms as Land Developer SA, and Sharks Sports SA, ADG Argentinian Developer Group SA, among others.\n\nIn October 2012, it was reported that Molinari wanted “to create a new airline in forty-five days.” He was in negotiations to buy seven aircraft from the defunct Uruguayan airline Pluna, which was in bankruptcy proceedings, and re-employ most of its 700 former employees. He presented Homero Guerrero, secretary to the Uruguayan president, with a plan to purchase the aircraft for close to $130 million and form a Uruguayan-based airline called Alas Sudamericanas, at an initial total investment of $190 million, that would be in the air within 45 days. He even met with President Mujica of Uruguay. But the plan did not work out. Molinari complained that the issue had been “politicized.” He said, however, that he was carrying out feasibility studies aimed at the creation of his own Uruguayan airline, explaining that Uruguay ”is a strategic point in Latin America.”\n\nMolinari is a founding member of the regional business platform Developers & Builders Alliance (DBA), which has offices in the U.S. and throughout Latin America.\n\nIn 2011, Molinari ran as deputy when his friend Mario Ishii challenged the candidacy of Daniel Scioli for re-election as governor of the Buenos Aires province. \"We are a possible alternative to the management of the current provincial leader,” Molinari told an interviewer. “We are able to see an alternative for the people of Buenos Aires with my practicality and with the ideological capacity of Mario Ishii.” Ishii and Molinari failed to win, despite a reported expenditure by Molinari of 6 million pesos.\n\nMolinari is friendly with Miami businessman Freddy Balsera, who led the Barack Obama campaign’s outreach effort to Latinos and is head of the Hispanic Council of the Democratic Party in the U.S. Together, Molinari and Balsera have been involved together in a business venture involving “social housing.”\n\nMolinari visited the White House in 2010 and contributed financially to the reelection campaign of President Obama in 2010. He also attended a 2010 dinner in Miami in support of Obama at the mansion of Gloria and Emilio Estefan, where he spoke to President Obama.\nHe has also donated to the Democratic Party PAC ActBlue.\n\nThe scandal erupted as a result of the April 14, 2013, episode of the investigative journalism program \"Periodismo para todos (Journalism for All)\", hosted by Jorge Lanata. The episode, entitled “The K money trail,” included hidden-camera footage on which Leonardo Fariña, the husband of famous model Karina Jelinek, described in detail the financial maneuvers whereby Lázaro Báez, a businessman close to the Kirchners, managed to transfer about 55 million euros from Argentina to Switzerland. Fariña had aided in this money-laundering operation, and it was established that the link between Báez and Fariña was Molinari, who was described as the “protector” of Fariña, a childhood friend of his son Martin.\n\nAppearing on the Jorge Rial radio program later in April, Molinari maintained that he had no involvement in money-laundering; that he had never met Báez; that he had met Fariña in late 2010, when Fariña had approached him with the idea of starting a luxury-car rental agency; and that he had known Federico Elaskar since the latter was 15 years old and a friend of his son, living in the same apartment building as the Molinaris, but that he had never done business with him. “I'm a businessman,” Molinari said. “I do business.”\n\nIn late April 2013, Molinari was violently assaulted by five men in the Palermo section of Buenos Aires who took several items from him, including his Audi A7 truck, which was found abandoned shortly thereafter. It was suggested that the beating and robbery of Molinari were the work of “mobsters” sending a “message.”\n\nElisa Carrió, a member of the Argentinian parliament, described Fariña in April 2013 as being “protected” by Molinari.\n\nFariña testified in June 2013 that he was an auditor for Austral Construcciones, a firm owned by Báez, and that he worked for Molinari, who paid him a monthly salary of 70,000 pesos. Also in June 2013, Maximiliano Acosta told a court that Molinari and his son Mathias had presented themselves to him as project developers and as representatives of Báez and his son.\n\nIt was reported in July 2013 that Molinari was “in trouble” in the U.S. courts. He was sought in connection with a Miami trial, \"Carlos Germán Díaz vs Global Development Consultant Inc\", in which he was named as a defendant, and with a New York case, brought by Kenneth Welt against Diego Molinari, Deborah Batista, and Amadeo Molinari of Moll Systems Corporation, that involved a payment to a Panamanian firm, Tensho Media.\n\nIn September 2013, federal judge Sebastián Casanello ordered a raid on Molinari’s firm Rei Fiduciaria, in order to determine the legitimacy of Fariña’s claim that his lavish lifestyle could be accounted for by his income from Rei Fudiciaria.\n\nMolinari has been described as the man who “invented” the husband of Karina Jelinek, “since it was he who gave her the famous Ferrari” and paid for the couple’s wedding. Molinari said that Fariña had been recommended to him by a lawyer in La Plata. “He proposed to me the business of high-end car rental, and bought five cars, some on behalf of the company and others in my name,” said Molinari. “The idea was good, because they were cars that were not in Argentina.” At that time Fariña had not yet become involved with Jelinek, and “seemed to be a person with an ordinary life.” Molinari said he paid Fariña “a per diem of six thousand dollars and also had a stake in the [car-rental] company.” After Fariña and Jelinek became a couple, Molinari disliked the negative press that the couple generated and encouraged Fariña to lower his profile and to clarify that his car was company-owned and that he was not a millionaire. Molinari said he had paid for Fariña’s and Jelinek’s wedding, a total outlay of 480,000 pesos, in order to promote the car-rental firm, some of whose wares were on display at the wedding.\n\nElaskar testified that he knew Fariña through Molinari’s son Matías. The elder Molinari, said Elaskar, had given his wife an Audi as a wedding gift.\n\nMolinari has five sons. He had a son with Lucrecia Silva, a former ballet dancer and former TV host and the current owner of a baby-clothing store in Concordia, in which Molinari reportedly invested. Their son’s christening party was held at Club Progreso in 2012.\n\nMolinari’s luxurious house in Pilar, Buenos Aires, was the subject of a feature in the magazine \"Caras\" in 2011.\n\nPerforming artist Marixa Balli stated in 2013 that Molinari had been her CD producer and lover in Miami many years earlier. She also said that he had paid for her most recent trip to Miami.\n"}
{"id": "4109779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4109779", "title": "Carnegie Deli", "text": "Carnegie Deli\n\nThe Carnegie Deli was an iconic small delicatessen chain based in New York City. Its main branch, opened in 1937 adjacent to Carnegie Hall, was located at 854 7th Avenue (between 54th and 55th Streets) in Midtown Manhattan. There are subsidiaries in Las Vegas, Nevada; Bethlehem, Pennsylvania; Six Flags Great Adventure. The deli, though having had its main branch closed, still operates a wholesale distribution service.\n\nThe Parker family's delicatessen was in its third generation of owners. Among the United States' most renowned delis, it was operated by a second-generation owner, Marian Harper Levine.\n\nThe restaurant offered pastrami, corned beef, and other sandwiches containing at least of meat, as well as traditional Jewish fare such as matzoh ball soup, latkes, chopped chicken livers, and lox. The restaurant also offered other, non-Jewish (or at least non-kosher) food such as ham, sausage, and bacon. Available for order were cheesecake portions of over a pound per serving. The restaurant's motto was: \"If you can finish your meal, we've done something wrong\". In addition to the large servings, the restaurant was also known for its surly waiters, who allegedly tried to impart some of the stereotypical gruffness of New York to visitors.\n\nThe main branch on Seventh Avenue closed on December 30, 2016. The other three branches and the distribution service remain open.\n\nLeo Steiner (c. 1939 – December 31, 1987) was a Jewish American restaurateur who was co-owner of the first Carnegie Deli, located at 55th Street and Seventh Avenue in Midtown Manhattan near Carnegie Hall. While his partner, Milton Parker, mostly worked behind the scenes, Steiner worked the crowd with his Jewish humor in the restaurant, which became a destination for both celebrities and tourists in the theater district. Steiner was born in Newark, New Jersey. He worked in his parents' grocery store in nearby Elizabeth, New Jersey, where he grew up. The one-time owner of Pastrami & Things, a delicatessen located at Third Avenue and 23rd Street, he joined Milton Parker and Fred Klein in 1976, purchasing the Carnegie Deli from the trio of Bernie Gross, Max Hudas and Thomas North. Klein, who had not been actively involved in running the business, dropped out shortly thereafter.\n\nUnder the management of Parker and Steiner, the deli became known nationwide, attracting celebrities such as Woody Allen, Jackie Mason and Henny Youngman, and opened branch locations in Atlantic City, New Jersey; Secaucus, New Jersey; and Tysons Corner, Virginia. Steiner became the public face of Jewish food, appearing in a television commercial for rye bread. He created a 60-pound Statue of Liberty carved from chopped liver, complete with a torch fashioned from a turkey wing, for the United States Bicentennial and was asked to prepare corned beef and pastrami for visiting heads of state attending the G7 economic summit meeting held in 1983 in Williamsburg, Virginia. Portions of Woody Allen's 1984 movie Broadway Danny Rose were filmed in the restaurant.\n\nMilton Parker, who died in 2009, had written a book (with Allyn Freeman) called \"How to Feed Friends and Influence People: The Carnegie Deli\", providing the history of the family's ownership.\n\nOn April 24, 2015, the main, Midtown Manhattan branch of Carnegie Deli was closed temporarily due to the discovery of an illegal gas line in the restaurant. Con Edison was investigating the restaurant, later fining the eatery $40,050. On July 28, 2015, Carnegie Deli was subsequently closed for upgrades to its energy lines after the discovery of improperly siphoning off natural gas for the previous six years. The deli reopened on February 9, 2016.\n\nOn September 30, 2016, it was announced that the Midtown Manhattan branch of the deli would close by the end of the year. The owner, Marian Harper Levine, stated that she needed a more permanent break from operating the restaurant, saying, \"At this stage of my life, the early morning to late night days have taken a toll, along with my sleepless nights and grueling hours that come with operating a restaurant business in Manhattan.\" Two branches in Las Vegas, Nevada, and in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, will remain open, as well as its wholesale distribution service.\n\nAt midnight on December 31, 2016, Carnegie Deli on Seventh Avenue closed after almost eighty years of service.\n\nThe deli's corned beef and pastrami, celebrated by smoked meat connoisseurs nationwide, were cured in the store's cellar using Steiner's own recipe in a two-week-long curing process. The Carnegie Deli used a half-ton of brisket to prepare a week's supply of corned beef by the time of his death. Steiner admitted, \"You could eat it after seven days, but if you wait until the 13th you're in heaven.\" The Carnegie Deli was the favorite hangout of comedian Henny Youngman, and Adam Sandler included a reference to the deli in \"The Chanukah Song\" in 1996. Steiner was eulogized by comedian Henny Youngman as \"the deli lama\".\n\nThe walls of the deli are nearly completely covered with autographed pictures of celebrities who have eaten there. Menu items have been named after famous patrons, including a corned beef and pastrami sandwich named after Woody Allen after the deli served as a filming location for \"Broadway Danny Rose.\" A number of items on the menu feature Broadway themes and Yiddish vocabulary, including dishes like \"nosh, nosh, Nanette\" (after the musical, \"No, No, Nanette\") and \"the egg and oy\" (\"The Egg and I\"). There are also some humorous items in the menu, like the famous liver sandwich named \"50 Ways to Love Your Liver\" after the Paul Simon song \"50 Ways to Leave Your Lover.\" It is a place many reporters in the city frequent, including staffers from Black Rock (aka the CBS Building) like Bob Simon.\n\nIn March 2012, the deli introduced a sandwich dedicated to newly arrived New York Jets quarterback Tim Tebow. The sandwich, named the \"Jetbow\", is priced at $22.22, weighs in at 3.5 lbs and consists of corned beef, pastrami, roast beef, American cheese, lettuce and tomato on white bread.\n\nThe deli opened several branch locations in the 1980s, including two New Jersey branches in Secaucus and Atlantic City and one in the Washington, D.C. suburbs in Tysons Corner. However, most of these branches have since closed and are no longer in operation. One, in Beverly Hills, California, was financed by oil billionaire Marvin Davis and designed by restaurant designer Pat Kuleto at a cost of $4 million to be the \"best deli in the world\", in response to Davis' complaint that the delis in California were not as good as those in New York.\n\nThe deli operates a second location on the Las Vegas Strip, which opened at The Mirage in 2005. A third location opened in 2006 at the Six Flags Great Adventure in New Jersey and serves as the \"healthy choice\" restaurant at the park; however, the menu is smaller and only has the restaurant's most popular items. The fifth location is at the Sands Casino Resort in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and opened November 22, 2009.\n\nIn addition to the retail operation, the restaurant sells cheesecakes and merchandise such as T-shirts and baseball caps online.\n\nIn 2013, \"Zagat\" gave it a food rating of 23, and rated it the 8th-best deli in New York City.\n\n\"USA Today\" has called the restaurant the \"most famous\" deli in the United States.\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "37536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37536", "title": "Central Park", "text": "Central Park\n\nCentral Park is an urban park in Manhattan, New York City. It is located between the Upper West Side and Upper East Side, roughly bounded by Fifth Avenue on the east, Central Park West (Eighth Avenue) on the west, Central Park South (59th Street) on the south, and Central Park North (110th Street) on the north. Central Park is the most visited urban park in the United States, with 40 million visitors in 2013, and one of the most filmed locations in the world. In terms of area, Central Park is the fifth-largest park in New York City, covering .\n\nThe park was established in 1857 on of land acquired by the city. In 1858, landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted and architect/landscape designer Calvert Vaux won a design competition to improve and expand the park with a plan they titled the \"Greensward Plan\". Construction began the same year, and the park's first area was opened to the public in the winter of 1858. Construction north of the park continued during the American Civil War in the 1860s, and the park was expanded to its current size in 1873. After a period of decline in the early 20th century, Robert Moses started a program to clean up Central Park. Another decline in the late 20th century spurred the creation of the Central Park Conservancy in 1980, which refurbished many parts of the park during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nCentral Park was designated a National Historic Landmark by the U.S. Department of the Interior in 1963, which in April 2017 placed it on the tentative list for UNESCO World Heritage sites. The park, managed for decades by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, is currently managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the municipal government in a public-private partnership. The Conservancy is a non-profit organization that contributes 75 percent of Central Park's $65 million annual budget and is responsible for all basic care of the 843-acre park.\n\nCentral Park, which has been a National Historic Landmark since 1962, was designed by landscape architect and writer Frederick Law Olmsted and the English architect Calvert Vaux in 1858 after winning a design competition. They also designed Brooklyn's Prospect Park. Central Park is the fifth-largest park in New York City, behind Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Van Cortlandt Park, the Staten Island Greenbelt, and Pelham Bay Park. Central Park is located on of land, although its original area was . The park, with a perimeter of , is bordered on the north by Central Park North (110th Street), on the south by Central Park South (59th Street), on the west by Central Park West (Eighth Avenue), and on the east by Fifth Avenue. It is 2.5 miles (4 km) long between Central Park South and Central Park North, and is 0.5 mile (0.8 km) wide between Fifth Avenue and Central Park West. \n\nCentral Park constitutes its own United States census tract, number 143. According to American Community Survey 5-year estimates, the park's population was five people, all female, with a median age of 19.8 years. However Central Park officials have rejected the claim of anyone permanently living there. The real estate value of Central Park was estimated by property appraisal firm Miller Samuel to be about $528.8 billion in December 2005.\n\nCentral Park's size and cultural position, similar to London's Hyde Park and Munich's Englischer Garten, has served as a model for many urban parks, including San Francisco's Golden Gate Park, Tokyo's Ueno Park, and Vancouver's Stanley Park. The park, which receives approximately 35 million visitors annually, is the most visited urban park in the United States. It is also the most filmed location in the world. A December 2017 report found that 231 movies have used Central Park for on-location shoots, more than the 160 movies that have filmed in Greenwich Village or the 99 movies that have filmed in Times Square.\n\nThe park is maintained by the Central Park Conservancy, a private, not-for-profit organization that manages the park under a contract with the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, in which the president of the Conservancy is \"ex officio\" Administrator of Central Park. Today, the conservancy employs 80% of maintenance and operations staff in the park. It effectively oversees the work of both the private and public employees under the authority of the Central Park administrator (publicly appointed), who reports to the parks commissioner, conservancy's president. , the conservancy had invested approximately $450 million in the restoration and management of the park; the organization presently contributes approximately 85% of Central Park's annual operating budget of over $37 million. The system was functioning so well that in 2006 the conservancy created the Historic Harlem Parks initiative, providing horticultural and maintenance support and mentoring in Morningside Park, St. Nicholas Park, Jackie Robinson Park, and Marcus Garvey Park.\n\nThe park has its own New York City Police Department precinct—the Central Park Precinct—which employs both regular police and auxiliary officers. In 2005, safety measures held the number of crimes in the park to fewer than one hundred per year (down from approximately 1,000 annually in the early 1980s). The New York City Parks Enforcement Patrol also patrols Central Park. There is an all-volunteer ambulance service, the Central Park Medical Unit, that provides free emergency medical service to patrons of Central Park and the surrounding streets. It operates a rapid-response bicycle patrol, particularly during major events such as the New York City Marathon, the 1998 Goodwill Games, and concerts in the park.\n\nWhile planting and land form in much of the park appear natural, it is in fact almost entirely landscaped. The park contains several natural-looking lakes and ponds that have been created artificially by damming natural seeps and flows.\nThere is a large area of woods in addition to seven major lawns, the \"meadows\", and many minor grassy areas; some of them are used for informal or team sports and some set aside as quiet areas; there are a number of enclosed playgrounds for children. The of drives within the park are used by joggers, cyclists, skateboarders, and inline skaters, especially when automobile traffic is prohibited, on weekends and in the evenings after 7:00 pm.\n\nBetween 1821 and 1855, New York City nearly quadrupled in population. As the city expanded northward up Manhattan Island, people were drawn to the few existing open spaces, mainly cemeteries, to get away from the noise and chaotic life in the city. Since Central Park was not part of the original Commissioners' Plan of 1811, John Randel, Jr., surveyed the grounds. The only remaining surveying bolt from his survey is embedded in a rock located north of the present Dairy and the 65th Street Transverse, and south of Center Drive. The bolt marks the location where West 65th Street would have intersected Sixth Avenue.\n\nNew York City's need for a great public park was resounded by the famed poet and editor of the \"Evening Post\" (now the \"New York Post\"), William Cullen Bryant, as well as by the first American landscape architect, Andrew Jackson Downing, who predicted and began to publicize the city's need for a public park in 1844. A stylish place for open-air driving, similar to Paris' Bois de Boulogne or London's Hyde Park, was felt to be needed by many influential New Yorkers, and, after an abortive attempt in 1850–1851 to designate Jones's Wood, in 1853 the New York legislature settled upon a area from 59th to 106th Streets for the creation of the park, at a cost of more than US$5 million for the land.\n\nThe state appointed a Central Park Commission to oversee the development of the park, and in 1857 the commission held a landscape design contest. Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux developed what came to be known as the \"Greensward Plan\", which was selected as the winning design. According to Olmsted, the park was \"of great importance as the first real Park made in this country – a democratic development of the highest significance...\", a view probably inspired by his various trips to Europe during 1850 (he had visited several parks during these trips and was particularly impressed by Birkenhead Park and Derby Arboretum in England). The Greensward Plan called for some 36 bridges, all designed by Vaux, ranging from rugged spans of Manhattan schist or granite, to lacy Neo-Gothic cast iron; no two are alike. The ensemble of the formal line of the Mall's doubled allées of elms culminating at Bethesda Terrace, whose centerpiece is the Bethesda Fountain, with a composed view beyond of lake and woodland, was at the heart of the larger design. Execution of the Greensward Plan was the responsibility of a number of individuals, including Jacob Wrey Mould (architect), Ignaz Anton Pilat (master gardener), George E. Waring, Jr. (engineer), and Andrew Haswell Green (politician), in addition to Olmsted and Vaux.\n\nSeveral influences came together in the design. Landscaped cemeteries, such as Mount Auburn (Cambridge, Massachusetts) and Green-Wood (Brooklyn, New York) had set examples of idyllic, naturalistic landscapes. The most influential innovations in the Central Park design were the \"separate circulation\" systems for pedestrians, horseback riders, and pleasure vehicles. The \"crosstown\" commercial traffic was entirely concealed in sunken roadways (today called \"transverses\"), screened with densely planted shrub belts so as to maintain a rustic ambiance.\n\nIn 1850, the land was occupied by free blacks and Irish immigrants who had purchased land, where they raised livestock, built churches and cemeteries, and had lived as a community for close to 50 years. Before the construction of the park could start, the area had to be cleared of its inhabitants. Rossi states that part of the impetus to schemes such as Central Park and others was to remove what they incorrectly deemed as shanty towns and their denizens. However, most lived in small villages, such as Harsenville, the Piggery District, or Seneca Village; or in the school and convent at Mount St. Vincent's Academy. Approximately 1,600 residents were evicted under the rule of eminent domain during 1857. Seneca Village and parts of the other communities were razed to make room for the park. In addition, when the commission finally submitted its report for public examination on October 4, 1855, taxpayers learned that they would be paying $5 million just for the park land, more than three times what they had been told the completed park as a whole would cost. At the same time, the offsetting revenue from property taxes of adjacent land came to $1.7 million, or one-third of the purchase price, and was considerably less than earlier estimates.\n\nDuring the park's construction, Olmsted battled with the park commissioners, many of them also politicians. In 1860, he was forced out for the first of many times as Central Park's superintendent, and Andrew Haswell Green, the former president of New York City's Board of Education took over as the commission's chairman. Despite his having relatively little experience, Green managed to accelerate the construction. Green also finalized the negotiations to purchase an additional at the north end of the park, between 106th and 110th Streets, which would be used as the \"rugged\" part of the park, its swampy northeast corner dredged, and reconstructed as the Harlem Meer.\n\nBetween 1860 and 1873, most of the major hurdles to construction were overcome, and the park was substantially completed. Construction combined the modern with the ageless: up-to-date steam-powered equipment and custom-designed wheeled tree-moving machines augmented massive numbers of unskilled laborers wielding shovels. The work was extensively documented with technical drawings and photographs. During this period, more than of topsoil had been transported from New Jersey, because the original soil was neither fertile nor sufficiently substantial to sustain the various trees, shrubs, and plants called for by the Greensward Plan. When the park was officially completed in 1873, more than 10 million cartloads of material had been transported out of the park, including soil and rocks, and more than four million trees, shrubs, and plants representing approximately 1,500 species were transplanted to the park. More gunpowder was used to clear the area than was used at the Battle of Gettysburg during the American Civil War.\n\nA proposal to have ornate, European-style entrances to the park was opposed by Olmsted and Vaux, who intended for the park's unadorned entrances to signal \"that all were welcome, regardless of rank or wealth.\" The park's commissioners assigned a name to each of the original 18 gates in 1862. The names were chosen to represent the broad diversity of New York City's trades; for example, \"Mariner's Gate\" for the entrance at 85th Street and Central Park West. The majority of entrances did not receive an inscription, however, until a park restoration effort in 1999.\n\nSheep grazed on the Sheep Meadow from the 1860s until 1934, when they were moved to Prospect Park in Brooklyn and soon thereafter moved to a farm near Otisville, New York, in the Catskill Mountains. It was feared they would be used for food by impoverished Depression-era New Yorkers.\n\nFollowing completion, the park quickly slipped into decline. One of the main reasons for this was the lack of interest from the Tammany Hall political machine, which was the largest political force in New York at the time. Around the turn of the 20th century, the park faced several new challenges. Cars were becoming commonplace, bringing with them their burden of pollution, and people's attitudes were beginning to change. No longer were parks to be used only for walks and picnics in an idyllic environment but also for sports and similar recreation. Following the dissolution of the Central Park Commission in 1870 and Andrew Green's departure from the project, and Vaux's death in 1895, the maintenance effort gradually declined. All of this changed in 1934, when Republican Fiorello La Guardia was elected mayor of New York City and unified the five park-related departments then in existence. Robert Moses was given the task of cleaning up the park. Moses, about to become one of the most powerful men in New York City, took over what was essentially a relic, a leftover from a bygone era.\n\nAccording to historian Robert Caro:\n\nIn a single year, Moses managed to clean up Central Park and other parks in New York City. Lawns and flowers were replanted, dead trees and bushes were replaced, walls were sandblasted, and bridges were repaired. Another dramatic change was Moses's removal of the \"Hoover valley\" shantytown, whose site was transformed into the Great Lawn. Major redesigning and construction also was carried out: for instance, the Croton Lower Reservoir was filled in so the Great Lawn could be created. The Greensward Plans purpose of creating an idyllic landscape was combined with Moses' vision of a park to be used for recreational purposes: 19 playgrounds, 12 ball fields, and handball courts were constructed. Moses managed to secure funds from the New Deal program, as well as donations from the public. He also created the 67th Street Transverse, widened West Drive, and evicted the sheep from Sheep Meadow.\n\nThe 1960s marked the beginning of an \"Events Era\" in Central Park that reflected the widespread cultural and political trends of the period. The Public Theater's annual Shakespeare in the Park festival was settled in the Delacorte Theater in 1961, and summer performances were instituted on the Sheep Meadow, and then on the Great Lawn by the New York Philharmonic Orchestra and the Metropolitan Opera. During the late 1960s, the park became the venue for rallies and cultural events such as the \"Love-ins\" and \"Be-Ins\" of the period. In 1966, Mayor John Lindsay, an avid cyclist, initiated a weekend ban on automobiles in Central Park for the enjoyment of cyclists and public alike – a policy that continues. Increasingly through the 1970s, the park became a venue for events of unprecedented scale, including rallies, demonstrations, festivals, and concerts.\n\nDespite the increasing numbers of visitors to the park, Robert Moses' departure in 1960 marked the beginning of a 20-year period of decline in its management. The city was experiencing economic and social changes, with some residents leaving the city and moving to the suburbs in the wake of increased crime. The Parks Department, suffering from budget cuts, responded by opening the park to any and all activities that would bring people into it, without adequate oversight and maintenance follow-up. Some of these events nevertheless became milestones in the social history of the park and in the cultural history of the city.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, however, managerial neglect was taking a toll on the park's condition. \"Years of poor management and inadequate maintenance had turned a masterpiece of landscape architecture into a virtual dustbowl by day and a danger zone by night\", in the opinion of Douglas Blonsky, a president of the Central Park Conservancy. Vandalism, territorial use (e.g. a pick-up game of softball or association football, which commandeered open space and excluded others), and illicit activities were taking place in the park. Several volunteer citizen groups emerged, intent upon reclaiming the park by fundraising and organizing volunteer initiatives. One of these groups, the Central Park Community Fund, commissioned a study of the park's management. The study's conclusion was bi-linear; it called for establishment of a single position within the New York City Parks Department, responsible for overseeing both the planning and management of Central Park, as well as a board of guardians to provide citizen oversight.\n\nIn 1979, Parks Commissioner Gordon Davis established the Office of Central Park Administrator, appointing to the position the executive director of another citizen organization, the Central Park Task Force. The Central Park Conservancy was founded the following year, to support the office and initiatives of the administrator and to provide consistent leadership through a self-perpetuating, citizen-based board that also would include as ex-officio trustees, the Parks Commissioner, the Central Park Administrator, and mayoral appointees.\n\nUnder the leadership of the Central Park Conservancy, the park's reclamation began with modest but highly significant first steps, addressing needs that could not be met within the existing structure and resources of the parks department. Interns were hired and a small restoration staff to reconstruct and repair unique rustic features, undertaking horticultural projects, and removing graffiti under the broken windows theory. The state of the park has improved since the 1970s, according to Conservancy president Douglas Blonsky:\n\nBy 1980, the Conservancy was also engaged in design efforts and long-term restoration planning, using both its own staff and external consultants. It provided the impetus and leadership for several early restoration projects funded by the city, preparing a comprehensive plan for rebuilding the park. The restoration was accompanied by a crucial restructuring of management, whereby the park was subdivided into zones, to each of which a supervisor was designated, responsible for maintaining restored areas. That year, the Dairy (which was originally designed as a refreshment stand and rest spot) was transformed into the park's first visitor's center, with the Conservancy using it to revitalize public interest in the park through exhibits, music series, and children's programs. The first landscape to be restored was the Sheep Meadow, primarily with funds provided by New York State. During the next few years, Bethesda Terrace and Fountain, Belvedere Castle, and the East Green were restored.\n\nBethesda Fountain, which had been dry for decades, was restored in 1980–81 and the Terrace was restored a year later, its stonework disassembled, cleaned, deteriorated surfaces removed, restored, patched, and reset. Resodding, and fifty new trees, 3,500 shrubs and 3,000 ground cover plants specified by Philip Winslow followed in 1986, most of which, having matured into dense blocks, were removed in 2008, to make way for plants native to the United States. Around the same time, the Belvedere Castle, which had been closed for many years, was renovated and reopened on May 1, 1983, as the Henry Luce Nature Observatory.\n\nBy 1982, the Chess & Checkers House and Frisbee Hill had been restored; thousands of shrubs and flowers asserted the park as a horticultural showpiece. To tend to those plants, more than 1,900 volunteers contributed more than 4,000 hours of work in the park. On completion of the planning stage in 1985, the conservancy launched its first capital campaign, assuming increasing responsibility for funding the park's restoration, and full responsibility for designing, bidding, and supervising all capital projects in the park. The Conservancy launched its first fundraising campaign in 1986, mapping out a 15-year restoration plan that sought to remain true to the original design. Over the next several years, \"Campaign for the Central Park Conservancy\" restored landmarks in the southern part of the park – Grand Army Plaza, Shakespeare Garden, and Cedar Hill. By 1988, Conservancy volunteers logged more than 13,000 hours in the park, with the organization's volunteer program winning a citation for excellence from the White House.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Conservancy announced a $50 million capital campaign to focus on improvements to the northern end of the park. Efforts culminated in the restoration of the Mall and Concert Ground, Harlem Meer, and the Ravine in the North Woods. The Conservancy's work on the Meer and the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center was subsequently honored with three awards: the 1994 New York City Landmarks Preservation Award, the American Society of Landscape Architects' Design Merit Award and the Victorian Society's Citation of Merit. In 1996, the Conservancy embarked on its most ambitious landscape restoration: the overhaul of the including and surrounding the Great Lawn and Turtle Pond (formerly the Great Lawn and the Belvedere Lake). The project was the centerpiece of the Conservancy's three-year \"Wonder of New York Campaign\", which raised $71.5 million and also helped restore southern and westside landscapes, as well as the North Meadow. The Great Lawn project was completed in 1997, featuring new amenities to encourage passive and active recreation as well as nature appreciation.\n\nCitywide budget cuts in the early 1990s, however, resulted in attrition of the park's routine maintenance staff, and the conservancy began hiring staff to replace these workers. Management of the restored landscapes by the conservancy's \"zone gardeners\" proved so successful that core maintenance and operations staff were reorganized in 1996. The zone-based system of management was implemented throughout the park, which was divided into 49 zones. Zone gardeners supervise volunteers assigned to them; these volunteers commit to a consistent work schedule and are supported by specialized crews in areas of maintenance requiring specific expertise or equipment, or more effectively conducted on a park-wide basis. In 2007, there were 3,000 volunteers compared to just under 250 paid workers in the park.\n\nRenovations continued through the early 2000s. In 2000 the Conservatory Water opened after a six-month restoration effort, with a $4 million project beginning on the 59th Street Pond, one of the park's most visible and heavily used landscapes. A new Reservoir fence was installed in 2003 under a $2 million capital project that replaced the old chain-link fence with a replica of the 8,000-foot long steel and cast-iron one that had enclosed the Reservoir in 1926. The new fence, along with removal of invasive trees and shrubs, restored the panoramic views of the park and Manhattan skyline.\n\nAnother ambitious restoration effort began in 2004, when Conservancy staff and contractors worked together to refurbish the 15,876 Minton tiles that hang on the ceiling of the Bethesda Arcade. Originally designed by Calvert Vaux and Jacob Wrey Mould, the ceiling of the Arcade is lined by 15,876 elaborately patterned encaustic tiles. Made by Minton and Company, a leading 19th-century ceramic manufacturer in England, the ceiling tiles are divided into 49 panels, each containing 324 tiles. Salt and water infiltration from the roadway above had badly damaged the tiles, leaving their backing plates so corroded they had to be removed in the 1980s. The tiles sat in storage for more than 20 years until the Conservancy received a generous private donation for their restoration. The Conservancy embarked on a $7 million restoration effort to return the Minton tiles to their original luster in 2004. A team of seven conservation technicians cleaned and repaired more than 14,000 original tiles by hand. Only three panels of replica tiles were needed to replace those that had been damaged beyond repair. For those recreations, the Conservancy decided to commission Maw and Company, Minton's successor in Stoke-on-Trent, England. The completed Bethesda Terrace Arcade was unveiled to much fanfare in March 2007. In 2006, the Conservancy completed a nine-month renovation of the Mall in a project that returned the landscape to its original character and ensured the protection of its great American Elms.\n\nThe Lake was the last of Central Park's bodies of water to be renovated by the Central Park Conservancy, in a project to enhance both its ecological and scenic aspects. In the summer of 2007, the first phase of a restoration of the Lake and its shoreline plantings commenced, with replanting using native shrubs and understory trees around the northern end of the Lake, from Bank Rock Bay – a narrow cove in the northwest corner that had become a silted-up algae-covered stand of aggressively invasive \"Phragmites\" reeds – to Bow Bridge, which received replicas of its four original Italianate cast-iron vases, overspilling with annuals. In the earliest stages, invasive non-native plants like Japanese knotweed were eradicated, the slopes were regraded with added humus and protected with landscaping burlap to stabilize the slopes while root systems became established and leaf litter developed.\n\nDuring the same time, Bank Rock Bridge, also called Cabinet Bridge, across the mouth of the cove was recreated in carved oak with cast-iron panels and pine decking, its original materials, following Vaux's original design of 1859–60. The cascade, where the Gill empties into the lake, was reconstructed to approximate its dramatic original form, inspired by paintings of Asher B. Durand. Sections of the Lake were dredged of accumulated silt – topsoil that had washed off the surrounding slopes – and the island formerly in the lake, which gradually eroded below water level, was reconstructed in the summer of 2007 with rugged boulders along its shoreline, graded wetland areas, and submerged planting shelves for water-loving native plants, like Pickerel weed.\n\nOak Bridge, the major entrance to the Ramble from the Upper West Side, spans Bank Rock Bay in the Lake's northwest corner; the long-lost picturesque feature was recreated in 2009 based on Calvert Vaux's original drawings. The bridge, built in 1860 of white oak with decorative openwork panels of cast iron, has been recreated in steel clad in ornamental cast iron facings, with wooden deck and railings. Restoration of further sections of the Lake's shoreline landscapes was undertaken, and the first renovated sections were opened to visitors in April 2008.\n\nOn October 23, 2012, hedge fund manager John A. Paulson announced a $100 million gift to the Central Park Conservancy, the largest ever monetary donation to New York City's park system.\n\nSince the 1960s, there has been a grassroots campaign to restore the park's loop drives to their original car-free state. Over the years, the number of car-free hours increased, though a full closure was resisted by the New York City Department of Transportation. Legislation was proposed in October 2014 to conduct a study to make the park car-free in summer 2015. In 2015, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced the permanent closure of West and East Drives north of 72nd Street to vehicular traffic as it was proven that closing the roads did not adversely impact traffic. Subsequently, in June 2018, the remaining drives south of 72nd Street were closed to vehicular traffic.\n\nVisitor attractions include:\n\nA total of 29 sculptures by sculptors such as Augustus Saint-Gaudens, Emma Stebbins, and John Quincy Adams Ward have been erected over the years, most donated by individuals or organizations. Much of the first statuary placed was of authors and poets, in an area now known as Literary Walk. Some of the sculptures are:\n\n\n\nGeographic features include:\n\nThere are four different types of bedrock in Manhattan. In Central Park, Manhattan schist and Hartland schist, which are both metamorphosed sedimentary rock, are exposed in various outcroppings. The other two types, Fordham gneiss (an older deeper layer) and Inwood marble (metamorphosed limestone which overlays the gneiss), do not surface in the park. Fordham gneiss, which consists of metamorphosed igneous rocks, was formed a billion years ago, during the Grenville orogeny that occurred during the creation of an ancient super-continent. It is the oldest rock in the Canadian Shield, the most ancient part of the North American tectonic plate. Manhattan schist and Hartland schist were formed in the Iapetus Ocean during the Taconic orogeny in the Paleozoic era, about 450 million years ago. During this period the tectonic plates began to move toward each other, which resulted in the creation of the supercontinent Pangaea.\n\nCameron's Line is a fault zone that traverses Central Park on an east-west axis.\n\nVarious glaciers have covered the area of Central Park in the past, with the most recent being the Wisconsin glacier which receded about 12,000 years ago. Evidence of past glaciers are visible throughout the park in the form of \"glacial erratics\" (large boulders dropped by the receding glacier) and north-south glacial striations visible on stone outcroppings.\n\nOne such outcrop is Rat Rock at , named after the rats that used to swarm there at night but also known as 'Umpire Rock'. Located near the southwest corner of the park, the outcrop is roughly circular, about wide and tall with different east, west, and north faces. Boulderers usually congregate there, as many as fifty per day, with some being regulars, and others being tourists; the quality of the stone is poor, and the climbs present so little challenge that it has been called \"one of America's most pathetic boulders\". The park police formerly ticketed climbers who climbed more than a few feet up the rock, but the City Climbers Club approached the park authorities and, by working to provide safety features such as wood chips around the base, they were able to legalize climbing there.\n\nCentral Park is home to seven bodies of water, all artificial. The largest lake is the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir, so named since 1994. It was constructed between 1858 and 1862. Covering an area of between 86th and 96th Streets, the reservoir reaches a depth of more than in places and contains about of water. The Reservoir is best known to New Yorkers for the jogging track around it.\n\nThe Ramble and Lake south of the Great Lawn covers nearly . Built on a former swamp, it was designed by Olmsted and Vaux to accommodate boats in the summer and ice skaters in winter. The Lake was opened to skaters in December 1858, while the rest of the park was still under construction. At the northern end of the park, at 110th Street, the Harlem Meer, named in honor of one of the first communities in the region, covers nearly . Located in a wooded area of oak, cypress, and beech trees, it was built after the completion of the southern portion of the park. Harlem Meer also allows visitors to fish, on a catch and release basis. In the southeast corner is the Pond, with an area of . The Pond is located near one of the busiest entrances to Central Park but still provides an atmosphere of calm and solitude.\n\nCentral Park is home to over 25,000 trees and has a stand of 1,700 American elms, one of the largest remaining stands in the northeastern U.S., protected by their isolation from the Dutch elm disease that devastated the tree throughout its native range.\n\nA partial listing of the tree species found in Central Park, both natives and exotics, includes:\n\n\n\nA wooded section of the park, called the Ramble and Lake, is popular among birders. Many species of woodland birds, especially warblers, may be seen in the Ramble in the spring and the fall.\n\nRowboats and kayaks are rented on an hourly basis at the Loeb Boathouse, which also houses a restaurant overlooking the Lake. As early as 1922, model power boating was popular on park waters.\n\nThe tradition of carriage horses in New York City was revived in 1935. The carriages have appeared in many films, and the first female horse and carriage driver, Maggie Cogan, appeared in a Universal newsreel in 1967. As such, they have become a symbolic institution of the city. After the September 11 attacks, in a much-publicized event, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani went to the stables himself to ask the drivers to go back to work to help return a sense of normality.\n\nSome activists such as NYCLASS, as well as politicians, have questioned the ethics of this tradition. The history of accidents involving spooked horses has come under scrutiny with recent horse deaths. Protests from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, and celebrities including Alec Baldwin, Alecia Beth Moore and Cheryl Hines have raised the issue's profile. Additional media accounts have corroborated some charges, but they have also shown that the standards vary from stable to stable.\n\nBoth activists and horse owners agree that part of the problem is lack of enforcement of the city code. Supporters of the trade say it needs to be reformed, not shut down, and that carriage drivers deserve a raise, which the city has not authorized since 1989. Paris, London, Beijing, and several U.S. cities have banned carriage horses. Replacements for the carriage horses may include electric vintage cars.\n\nPedicabs operate mostly in the southern part of the park, the same part as horse carriages. Such vehicles have more recently offered visitors a more dynamic way in which to view the park; covering three to ten times the distance of a typical Central Park horse carriage ride, pedicabs have become very popular with visitors and New Yorkers alike; also, they are being eyed as another replacement for the carriage horses.\n\nPark Drive, just over long, is heavily used by runners, joggers, pedestrians, bicyclists, and inline skaters.\n\nOn most weekends, running races take place in the park, many of which are organized by the New York Road Runners. The New York City Marathon finishes in Central Park outside Tavern on the Green. Many other professional races are run in the park, including the 2008 USA Men's 8k Championships. Baseball fields are numerous, and there are also courts for volleyball, tennis, croquet and lawn bowling. The park is home to several competitive running clubs, including Central Park Track Club.\n\nCentral Park has two ice skating rinks, Wollman Rink and Lasker Rink; during summer, the former is the site of Victorian Gardens seasonal amusement park, and the latter converts to an outdoor swimming pool.\n\nThe park drives are used as the home course for the Century Road Club Association's racing series. The CRCA is a USA Cycling sanctioned amateur cycling club.\n\nCentral Park's glaciated rock outcroppings attract climbers, especially boulderers. The two most renowned spots for boulderers are Rat Rock and Cat Rock; others include Dog Rock, Duck Rock, Rock N' Roll Rock, and Beaver Rock, near the south end of the park.\n\nCentral Park has twenty-one playgrounds for children located throughout the park; the largest, at , is Heckscher Playground named for August Heckscher. The current Central Park Carousel, installed in 1951, is one of the largest merry-go-rounds in the United States. The fifty-eight hand-carved horses and two chariots were made by Solomon Stein and Harry Goldstein in 1908. The carousel originally was installed in Coney Island in Brooklyn.\n\nThe Central Park Zoo is part of a system of four zoos and one aquarium that is managed by the Wildlife Conservation Society. The zoo is home to an indoor rainforest, a leafcutter ant colony, a chilled penguin house, and a polar bear pool.\n\nSwedish Cottage Marionette Theatre is located in the Swedish Cottage. The building was originally a model schoolhouse built in Sweden. Made of native pine and cedar, it was disassembled and rebuilt in the U.S. as Sweden's exhibit for the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. Frederick Law Olmsted moved the cottage to its present site in 1877.\n\nCentral Park is home to two indoor restaurants.\nThe famed New York City restaurant Tavern on the Green is located on the park's grounds at Central Park West and West 67th Street. It was originally the sheepfold that housed the sheep that grazed Sheep Meadow, built to a design by Calvert Vaux in 1870. It became a restaurant as part of a 1934 renovation of the park under Robert Moses. In 1974, Warner LeRoy took over the restaurant's lease and reopened it in 1976 after $10 million in renovations including the addition of a glass-enclosed Crystal Room overlooking the restaurant's garden (one of several dining rooms), which doubled the seating capacity to 800. The restaurant closed in 2009 and reopened on April 24, 2014, after a renovation.\n\nThe Loeb Boathouse restaurant is the other indoor restaurant in Central Park. Located at the Loeb Boathouse on The Lake, it was designed in 1874, destroyed in 1950, and rebuilt in 1954 on the East Side between 74th and 75th Streets.\n\nThe oldest free classical music concert series in the United States, the Naumburg Orchestral Concerts – founded in 1905 – presents concerts in the park's only neo-classical building, the Naumburg Bandshell on the Concert Ground, each summer. The concerts feature promising new talent and promote the professional development of young composers and conductors.\nCentral Park has given birth to other arts groups dedicated to performing in the park, notably Central Park Brass, which performs an annual concert series, and the New York Classical Theatre, which produces an annual series of plays.\n\nEach summer, there are several events happening in the park. The Public Theater presents free open-air theatre productions, often starring well-known stage and screen actors. The Delacorte Theater is the summer performing venue of the New York Shakespeare Festival, where most, although not all, of the plays presented are by William Shakespeare, and the performances are generally regarded as being of high quality since its founding by Joseph Papp in 1962. The New York Philharmonic gives an open-air concert on the Great Lawn yearly during the summer. City Parks Foundation has offered Central Park Summerstage since 1985, a series of free performances including music, dance, spoken word, and film presentations, often featuring famous performers; the Summerstage facility also has non-free concerts that are branded under different names. Since 1992, local singer-songwriter David Ippolito has performed almost every summer weekend to large crowds of passers-by and regulars and has become a New York icon, often simply referred to as \"That guitar man from Central Park\". From 1967 until 2007, the Metropolitan Opera presented two operas in concert each year. The Fifth Avenue Mile is along the east side of the park between 80th and 60th Streets each September.\n\nMany popular one-time concerts have been given in the park including Barbra Streisand, 1967; The Supremes, 1970; Carole King, 1973; Bob Marley and The Wailers, 1975; America, 1979; Elton John, 1980; the Simon and Garfunkel reunion, 1981; Diana Ross, 1983; Paul Simon, 1991; Garth Brooks, 1997; Sheryl Crow, 1999; Dave Matthews Band, 2003; Bon Jovi, 2008; and , 2011. Central Park was the location of the largest concert ever on record when country superstar Garth Brooks performed a in August 1997, to which about 980,000 had attended.\n\nThe New York City Subway's IND Eighth Avenue Line () runs along the western edge of the park, with a transfer station to the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line at Columbus Circle. In addition, the IRT Lenox Avenue Line () has a station at Central Park North. From there the line curves southwest under the park, and heads west under 104th Street. The BMT Broadway Line () has a station at Fifth Avenue and 59th Street.\n\nVarious bus routes pass through Central Park or stop along its boundaries. The M10 bus stops along Central Park West, while the M5 and part of the M7 runs along Central Park South, and the run along Central Park North. The M1, M2, M3, and M4 run southbound along Fifth Avenue with corresponding northbound bus service on Madison Avenue. In addition, the buses use the transverse roads across Central Park. The only serve Columbus Circle on the south end of the park, and the run on 57th Street two blocks from the park's south end, but do not actually stop on the boundaries of the park itself.\n\nCentral Park is surrounded by four roadways: Central Park North, Central Park South, Central Park West, and Fifth Avenue. There are four plazas, one on each corner of the park: Frederick Douglass Circle on the northwest, Duke Ellington Circle on the northeast, Columbus Circle at the southwest, and Grand Army Plaza at the southeast. There are also four transverse roadways: 65th–66th Streets, 79th–81st Streets, 86th Street, and 96th Street. The park has three scenic roadways that travel it vertically: West, Center, and East Drives. Since 2018, traffic is banned from all of the vertical drives.\n\n is the westernmost of the park's three vertical \"drives\". The road, which carries southbound bicycle and horse-carriage traffic, is described as \"... concealed in sunken roadways and screened with densely planted shrub belts, creating a country-road feel in the center of the city.\" In the early 20th century, the drive was a popular place for carriage rides. A painting by Gifford Beal shows a picture of West Drive depicted with a horse and buggy. However, the drive is also dangerous; in 2014, a stretch of West Drive was considered to be \"the most dangerous section of Central Park\" for pedestrians, with bicycle crashes along the drive leaving 15 people injured.\n\n, the easternmost of the three drives, connects northbound bicycle and carriage traffic from Midtown to the Upper West Side at Lenox Avenue. The street is renowned for its country scenery and free concerts. It generally straddles the east side of the park along Fifth Avenue. The drive passes by the Central Park Zoo around 63rd Street and the Metropolitan Museum of Art around the 80th to 84th Street area. The drive is also one of the legs of the New York Marathon. It is known as the \"Elite Carriage Parade\", because at the time of the park's opening, only 5 percent of the city was able to afford the carriage; of this, Walt Whitman said that the carriage parade was \"an impressive, rich, interminable circus on a grand scale, full of action and color.\"\n\nThe drives were formerly two-way traffic, but in November 1929, the scenic drives were converted to unidirectional traffic. The improvements were intended to increase pedestrian safety. Prior to the changes, there were large numbers of collisions between pedestrians and vehicles. In the first ten months of 1929, eight people were killed and 249 were injured in 338 separate collisions. Further improvements were made in 1932 when forty-two traffic lights were installed along the scenic drives, and the speed limit was lowered to . The signals were coordinated so that drivers could go through all of the green lights if they maintained a steady speed of 25 mph. The drives were experimentally closed to automotive traffic on weekends starting in 1967, for exclusive use by pedestrians and bicyclists. In subsequent years, the scenic drives were closed to automotive traffic for most of the day during the summer. By 1979, the drives were only open during rush hours and late evenings during the summer.\n\nLegislation was proposed in October 2014 to conduct a study to make the park car-free in summer 2015. In 2015, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced the permanent closure of West and East Drives north of 72nd Street to vehicular traffic as it was proven that closing the roads did not adversely impact traffic. After most of the Central Park loop drives were closed to vehicular traffic, the city performed a follow-up study. The city found that West Drive, which was used by 1,050 vehicles a day, was open for two hours during the morning rush hour, and that East Drive, which was open for twelve hours a day, was used by 3,400 vehicles per day. Subsequently, all cars were banned from East Drive in January 2018. In April 2018, de Blasio announced that the entirety of all three loop drives would be permanently closed to traffic. The closure was placed into effect in June 2018.\n\nCentral Park was once a very dangerous place, especially after dark, as measured by crime statistics. The park is considerably safer in the 21st century, though during prior periods it was the site of numerous muggings and rapes. Well-publicized incidents of sexual and confiscatory violence, such as the notorious 1989 Central Park jogger case, dissuaded many from visiting one of Manhattan's most scenic areas. Fear was also directed toward the gay community after World War II from a panic of sex crimes. As crime has declined in the park and in the rest of New York City, many of the negative perceptions have begun to wane. Safety measures hold the number of crimes in the park to fewer than one hundred per year, down from approximately 1,000 in the early 1980s.\n\nOn June 11, 2000, following the Puerto Rican Day Parade, gangs of drunken men sexually assaulted women in the park. Several arrests were made shortly after the attacks, but it was not until 2006 that a civil suit against the city for failing to provide police protection was finally settled.\n\nPermission to hold issue-centered rallies in Central Park, similar to the be-ins of the 1960s, has been met with increasingly stiff resistance from the city. During some 2004 protests, the organization United for Peace and Justice wanted to hold a rally on the Great Lawn during the Republican National Convention. The city denied application for a permit, stating that such a mass gathering would be harmful to the grass and that such damage would make it harder to collect private donations to maintain the park. Courts upheld the refusal.\n\nDuring the 2000s and early 2010s, new towers were constructed along the southern end of Central Park. According to a Municipal Art Society report, such buildings cast shadows over the southern end of the park. There has been some controversy over this.\n\n"}
{"id": "11573366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11573366", "title": "Charles Bedaux", "text": "Charles Bedaux\n\nCharles Eugène Bedaux (10 October 1886 – 18 February 1944) was a French-born American millionaire who made his fortune developing and implementing the work measurement aspect of scientific management, notably the Bedaux System. Considered one of the most eccentric millionaires of the early twentieth century, Bedaux was friends with British royalty and Nazis alike, and was a management consultant, big game hunter and explorer.\n\nCharles Bedaux was born in the Charenton-le-Pont commune of Paris, France. Little is known about his early life but his brother Gaston later recorded that in 1903, Charles dropped out of Lycée Jean-Baptiste-Say in Paris where he had been studying engineering.\n\nCharles worked a series of menial jobs before befriending Henri Ledoux, a successful pimp from the infamous Pigalle district. The mysterious Ledoux apparently taught Bedaux lessons on proper dress, confidence and street-fighting, but was murdered in 1906.\n\nWhat is verified is that in 1906, Charles moved to the United States, where he became a United States citizen, married, and had a son, Charles Emile Bedaux (1909–1993). He would later claim in interviews to have worked as a restaurant bottle-washer, a sandhog, and at the New Jersey Worsted Mills in Hoboken.\n\nBedaux was one of the leading contributors in the field of work measurement or \"labor measurement\", one strand of the scientific management movement's influence. In this, he was strongly influenced by F.W. Taylor's book \"Shop Management\", particularly Taylor's time study practices, and Charles E. Knoeppel's writings on industrial layout and routing.\n\nBuilding on these authors, Bedaux introduced the concept of rating assessment, which led to improvements in the comparability of employee and departmental efficiency. He named this the \"Bedaux System of Human Power Measurement.\" The distinguishing feature of the Bedaux System, which advanced it beyond these earlier scientific management practitioners, was in its use of the \"Bedaux Unit\" or \"B\", a universal measure for all manual work.\n\nBedaux also mimicked Frank Gilbreth by introducing a motion study Kodascope package which he propagated with an early Bedaux client, Kodak.\n\nBedaux became associated with one of Taylor's circle, Harrington Emerson, whose consultancy, Emerson Consulting, Bedaux emulated in sectors additional to engineering. In 1916 he established a consulting firm in Cleveland, the Chas. E. Bedaux Company.\n\nEarly U.S. clients were in the furniture assembly and rubber sectors of Grand Rapids, Michigan. His consultancy's slogan was \"Bedaux Measures Labor\" and its logo incorporated an egg timer motif.\n\nThe Bedaux consultancy was one of the first of its kind and within a decade its success allowed for the creation of a string of consultancy firms across the United States, Europe, and eventually throughout Africa, India, Australia and the Orient administered by the parent company, Bedaux Internationale.\n\nMajor Bedaux clients included DuPont, Imperial Chemical Industries, Anglo-Persian Oil Company (later BP), Fiat, and Campbell's.\n\nThe Bedaux system was introduced at Campbell's in 1927, where \"B\" standards were 'the cause of the majority of the shop floor battles between management and labor' for years. In 1929, the Taylor Society supported Southern textile workers in their strike against the Bedaux System, which textile workers believed was 'even worse than the old \"Taylor Stop-Watch System\"'. There was also a long series of labor disputes in relation to Bedaux and the Loyal Legion of Loggers and Lumbermen (4L) in the U.S. Northwest lumber industry from 1931-5.\n\nBedaux Britain had several labor issues: in 1929, there was a strike over the Bedaux System at the Rover plant in Coventry. In winter 1931-2, women workers struck over the introduction of the Bedaux System at Wolsey in Leicester. Additionally, in 1934 the introduction of the Bedaux System at Richard Johnson and Nephew in Manchester precipitated a strike which lasted for months. In this case, the wiredrawers' union took their employers to court over the Bedaux System but eventually lost their case.\n\nOne of Bedaux's principal engagements in Italy was at the iconic Fiat plant in Turin, whose founder Giovanni Agnelli was also head of the Società Italiana Bedaux. These management interventions were later made famous by the founder of the Italian Communist Party, Antonio Gramsci, whose \"Prison Notebooks\" analyzed the ramifications of \"Taylorism\" at the plant. The Bedaux System also met with resistance at the Pertusola mines in Sardinia.\n\nOf Bedaux's business empire, Bedaux Britain was particularly lucrative. Here, the Bedaux Unit was so successful that it was copied by industrial firms such as Rowntree's of York (a corporate member of the Taylor Society), Mander Brothers of Wolverhampton, and influential consultancies including Urwick, Orr & Partners.\n\nIndeed, Bedaux Britain formed the basis for all four of the 'Big Four' European consultancies in the postwar period: Associated Industrial Consultants (AIC), Urwick, Orr & Partners (UOP), Production-Engineering (P-E) and PA Consulting (PA).\n\nIn focusing on factory floor and office efficiency issues, the 'Big Four' Bedauxist consultancies were successful across Western Europe until the 1960s, when they were largely overtaken by U.S. consultancies such as McKinsey & Company, whose efforts were in higher-value activities such as strategy and restructuring.\n\nThe Bedaux Canadian Sub-Arctic Expedition was the grand title Bedaux gave to the expedition he formed to cross the wilderness of Northern British Columbia, Canada in 1934. Mostly, the expedition was a publicity stunt, but it was also formed to test out the new Citroën half-track cars that were being developed by Bedaux's friend André Citroën.\nKey points in the trip were filmed by Academy Award winning cinematographer from Hollywood, Floyd Crosby, who would later be praised for his work on \"High Noon\". Also along for the trip were several dozen Alberta cowboys and a large film crew. To map the route of the expedition, the Canadian government sent along two geographers, Frank Swannell and Ernest Lemarque. The expedition started off at Edmonton, Alberta on 6 July 1934 and their goal was to travel 1500 miles to Telegraph Creek, British Columbia. Much of the trip would have to be made through regions that were relatively uncharted and had no trails.\nThe party failed to reach their destination and the original movie was never made, but in 1995, Canadian director, George Ungar, produced a television biography of Bedaux incorporating Crosby's footage of the expedition, \"The Champagne Safari\" (1995).\nBedaux purchased the sixteenth-century Château de Candé, in France, and lived there with his American second wife, the former Fern Lombard (1892–1972), a daughter of lawyer James Lombard of Grand Rapids, Michigan. The couple purchased the château in 1927 and renovated it, completing work in 1930.\n\nOn 3 June 1937, Charles and Fern Bedaux hosted the wedding of Wallis Warfield and Prince Edward, Duke of Windsor at the château. Bedaux then arranged the couple's honeymoon to the Third Reich, where they publicly met the Führer, Adolf Hitler.\n\nThe next stage of the trip, the United States, was called off due to labor union, press and public outrage at Bedaux's involvement. He was quickly demonized in the media around the globe. Specifically, the Baltimore Federation of Labor publicly attacked the 'emissaries of dictatorships or uniformed sentimentalists' and called the Bedaux System a 'vicious adaptation of the Taylor System'.\n\nFrom then on, commentators conceptually linked Bedaux and his \"B\" system with fascism, and Taylor's remaining supporters, particularly those in the Taylor Society, distanced themselves from Bedaux.\n\nThe fiasco prompted many employers using the Bedaux System, and those derived from it, to change its terminology to more neutral and administrative language. This goes some way to explain why historical research into the enduring influence of the Bedaux System and its Bedaux Unit has been reported as difficult to undertake.\n\nWhen Paris was occupied by the Germans during World War II, Bedaux became acquainted with leading Nazi and Vichy figures. After the fall of France in 1940, he was appointed as an economic advisor to Vichy and the Reich.\n\nBedaux's wife, Fern, and her sister, Eve Duez (Mme Louis S Duez), were interned briefly in Paris during the war but were soon released through their connections to the German government in France.\n\nIn 1941, Bedaux experimented with a political-economic system of his own invention, \"Equivalism\", in Roquefort, Vichy France. Recent research has shown that the experiments amounted to tinkering which locals hardly noticed.\n\nAlso in 1941, in France, there was a violent coal strike over the Bedaux System in the Nord and Pas de Calais in May and June.\n\nBedaux's German connections were not restricted to Occupied France. In October 1941 he was designated by the sabotage branch of the Abwehr (Abwehr II) to command a covert mission to Persia (Iran) to capture the refinery at Abadan from his former client, the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, and protect it from Allied bombardment prior to a planned German military invasion of Iraq and Persia. By the end of 1942, however, strategic events (e.g. the Second Battle of El Alamein and the Battle of Stalingrad) had rendered the operation unworkable, and Bedaux was dropped by Berlin. The countersabotage plan then became obsolete, though it looked suspicious when Bedaux was later investigated by the FBI and MI5.\n\nDespite Bedaux's cultivation of relationships with various Abwehr and Nazi Party officials, declassified National Archives and Records Administration records indicate that Bedaux did not have dealings with the upper echelons of the Party or with officials of the Sicherheitsdienst (SS Security Service).\n\nOn 13 January 1943 Bedaux was in Algeria allegedly supervising the construction of a German pipeline when he and his son were arrested by the Americans. He was kept in custody without charge for a year. Bedaux was eventually flown to the US, and, awaiting charges of trading with the enemy and treason, committed suicide using an overdose of barbiturates while in FBI custody in Miami, Florida. His death featured prominently in the contemporary media, particularly an influential New Yorker biographical trilogy by Janet Flanner. Here, Flanner attacked the Bedaux System and Bedaux Unit as, despite Bedaux's verbose claims to originality, she argued that they did not differ 'much from the old Frederick Winslow Taylor shop-management system of the nineties'.\n\nThe circumstances of Bedaux's death and his posthumous influence remain subjects of research inquiry. Despite his contemporary prominence in the media, and in business and consultancy circles, Bedaux did not feature alongside such figures as F.W. Taylor, Hans Renold and Charles Myers in the \"Making of Scientific Management\" trilogy by Lyndall Urwick and E.F.L. Brech. He was also not present in Urwick's comprehensive management prosopography \"The Golden Book of Management\". It remains controversial as to why.\n\nIt has also been suggested that, in an attempt to restore Bedaux's reputation, the French government awarded Bedaux a posthumous Légion d'honneur on the grounds that he had actually hampered the Germans and guarded Jewish property. More recent research has been unable to prove the existence of this award.\n\nA street in Tours, the Avenue Charles Bedaux, is named after Bedaux.\n\nThe Château de Candé is open to public visitors and is themed around the Duke and Duchess's 1937 wedding. Many of Bedaux's possessions are on display there.\n\nBedaux's most famous depiction in interwar culture was as a crackpot inventor in Charlie Chaplin's \"Modern Times\" who presents a 'Beddoes' or 'Billowes' 'Feeding Machine' to Chaplin's employer. The malfunctioning contraption was then demonstrated on a restrained and tormented Chaplin.\n\nIn addition, the 'Bedaux belt' featured in George Orwell's \"Inside the Whale\", alongside other items and people, such as Hitler and Stalin, which Orwell saw as indicative of the dark side of the period.\n\nFollowing his death in 1944, Bedaux features by name in Upton Sinclair's 1945 novel Dragon Harvest.\n\nBedaux also appears as a thwarted efficiency expert, Monsieur Bedou of Ratio Ltd., in Pierre Boulle's \"Sacrilege in Malaya\" (1951).\n\nSeveral conspiracy theories surround Bedaux's life and death. They usually situate Bedaux as a conduit between the Nazi and British elites, who facilitated important events in World War Two such as the fall of France and the alleged murder of Heinrich Himmler by British intelligence operatives. These stories stem both from contemporary sensationalist media stories following Bedaux's well-publicised suicide and in publications which followed the FBI's release of the Bedaux files in the early 1980s. These claims have been subject to recent investigation.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2008 this issue was compounded by the discovery that key elements of Martin Allen's \"Hidden Agenda\" trilogy were based on twenty-nine forgeries located in the UK National Archives. These forged papers explicitly implicated Bedaux high in the elite echelons of the Third Reich. As part of the police investigation into the case, Allen denied knowledge of the forgeries and 'suggested he was the victim of a conspiracy'.\n\n"}
{"id": "12616778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12616778", "title": "Charles C. Dodge", "text": "Charles C. Dodge\n\nCharles Cleveland Dodge (September 16, 1841 – November 4, 1910) was a brigadier general in the American Civil War and one of the youngest in history, receiving his commission at the age of twenty-one. He was the son of Congressman William Earle Dodge.\n\nDodge was commissioned as a captain in the 1st New York Mounted Rifles, also known as 7th New York Volunteer Cavalry in December 1861, and was soon promoted to major. He commanded this cavalry detachment during Maj. Gen. John E. Wool's Norfolk expedition, Prior to this Major Dodge and the Mounted Rifles participated in the clash of ironclads, firing from shore at the CSS Virginia during said Naval engagement.\n\nAfter the successful seizure, of Norfolk & Gosport Naval Yard, Major Dodge was dispatched to Suffolk on May 12, 1862. This move was to choke off Rebel port and secure roads around the Dismal Swamp. This cut off supplies coming up from Carolina Sounds. Suffolk had been abandoned by rebel forces who withdrew to the Blackwater River. Major Dodge held Suffolk until General Peck was placed in charge and turned Suffolk into a fortress city with 15 miles of defensive works.\n\nDodge was promoted to the rank of colonel on August 14, 1862, and then to brigadier general on November 29, 1862, an advancement that was lobbied for by a number of prominent New Yorkers, including Theodore Roosevelt, Sr. He commanded successful engagements during the Suffolk Campaign and at Hertford, North Carolina. The mounted Rifles under Dodge served as the eyes and ears for General Peck in numerous sorties. Cavalry men under Dodge were the first to detect the movement of Longstreet that led to the siege of Suffolk by Rebel Forces.\n\nHe had performed commendably, but there was obviously difficulties between Dodge and his superior Major General John J. Peck, and his Corps commander Major General John A. Dix, who expressed preference for an older officer to lead the cavalry division. In a letter to Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War, dated 28 March 1863, John A. Dix wrote:\n\nThere is another subject I would like to mention. Col. Dodge of the New York Mounted Rifles has been made Brigadier General. This regiment has given me great trouble. It is known as “Dodge’s Rifles”. They have plundered in all direction, and since the first of October thirty-five have deserted to the enemy, from ten different companies, most of them from outposts, carrying away their horses, arms and equipment; a thing unprecedented in any Regiment in the service. General Peck refused to recommend his promotion, and I felt it my duty to censure him in General Orders. General Peck does not want him, nor do I. His influence with his regiment is not salutary. Besides, he will be chief of Cavalry, which would otherwise be commanded by General Spear, a most gallant, experienced and efficient officer. I beg of you to put General Dodge on duty elsewhere. He is very young, and should be under an experienced officer if he to be continued in the Cavalry service.\n\nThere were no other cavalry officers available with an earlier date of rank, and Dodge refused to be subordinated to someone who was junior to him in seniority. He resigned in June 1863 in protest, and briefly returned to service with the militia to suppress the New York City draft riots. On the third day of rioting Dodge led the 8th New York National Guard supported by Colonel Thaddeus P. Mott's 14th New York Cavalry and John H. Howell's artillery battery to Eighth Avenue and 32nd Street. At the lynching of 3 African-Americans a group of rioters had assembled which possibly numbered 5,000. The crowd retreated from the infantry and cavalry column but struck back with bricks, bats and stones. Howell's artillery was then ordered to open fire which dispersed the rioters. The next day Dodge moved with troops to 22nd Street and engaged rioters near Gramercy Park.\n\nHe then went into business, and was a partner in Phelps Dodge Co., and President of the New York and Boston Cape Cod Canal Co., which was eventually purchased and completed by the Federal Government in 1914.\n\nHe died in New York City in 1910 of pneumonia. He was buried in Woodlawn Cemetery (Bronx, New York).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30283466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30283466", "title": "Chauncey McCormick", "text": "Chauncey McCormick\n\nChauncey Brooks McCormick (December 7, 1884 – September 8, 1954) was an American businessman and art collector in the McCormick family.\n\nHis mother was Eleanor Brooks, daughter of Walter Brooks of Baltimore.\nHis father was William Grigsby McCormick (1851–1941), whose father William Sanderson McCormick (1815–1865) was one of the founders of McCormick Harvester, which merged in 1902 with the Deering Harvester Company founded by William Deering and others to form International Harvester Corporation. His father founded Kappa Sigma Fraternity, and owned insurance and real estate businesses before becoming a member of the New York Stock Exchange.\nChauncey Brooks McCormick was born December 7, 1884, the sixth of seven children.\n\nHe attended Groton School and graduated from Yale University in 1907. During the summer of 1905 he worked as a common laborer in the McCormick factory. After graduation he worked for the Paris office of International Harvester. In 1907 he was gored by a wild elk while on the private game preserve of Percy Raymond Greist.\n\nOn July 6, 1914 McCormick married Charles Deering's daughter Marion Deering (1886–1965) in Paris. When the engagement was announced in June, her parents objected because \"McCormick did not take life seriously enough\". After a civil ceremony, the religious rite required in France was held at her uncle James Deering's Paris residence. The couple was still in France when it became involved in World War I in August. \nHe joined the American Expeditionary Forces with the rank of Captain, using his connections to supply food and medical supplies to refugees. In 1918 Herbert Hoover sent him to Poland to organize aid there.\nFrance awarded the Croix de guerre for his services.\n\nAfter the war they moved to St. James Farm in DuPage County, Illinois, west of Chicago near modern Warrenville, Illinois. It was just south of the estate of his cousin Robert Rutherford \"Colonel\" McCormick (1880–1955) called Cantigny.\nIn 1925 he became a trustee of the Art Institute of Chicago, and became president in 1944.\nIn 1927 he became chairman of the art committee for the 1933 world's fair known as the Century of Progress, and arranged for \"the biggest, most comprehensive, most valuable loan exhibition ever assembled in the U. S.\"\nFinancial problems associated with the Great Depression threatened to reduce the effort to showing popular pictures that would pay off expenses. McCormick used his connections instead to lobby for displaying the most important works he could find. They included James Abbott McNeill Whistler's portrait of his mother known as Whistler's Mother, which was sent from the Louvre with an armed guard of US troops for a tour that included a stop at the Chicago fair.\nOn June 10, 1929, he purchased (with cousin Robert) the estate originally built around 1822 by his great grandfather Reuben Grigsby (1780–1863) known as Hickory Hill.\n\nMcCormick was a member of the International Harvester Board of Directors from 1936 until his death in 1954. Although he never ran for public office, he was a delegate to the 1936 Republican National Convention. During World War II he was Chairman of the Commission for Polish Relief, and also worked on reconstruction efforts of Poland after the war.\nHe died on September 8, 1954 while at a vacation home in Seal Harbor, Maine, and left his papers to the Newberry Library.\n\nHis widow Marion McCormick also became a patron of art in Chicago and \"one of the nation's richest women\" when she died in 1965. Their son Brooks McCormick (1917–2006) was the last family member to head International Harvester. Two other sons were C. Deering McCormick and Roger McCormick.\nThe Warrenville estate is now the St. James Farm Forest Preserve, at .\nOne of their paintings, \"Femme aux Bras Croisés\" (Woman With Crossed Arms) by Pablo Picasso from his blue period, was auctioned off for US$55 million in 2000.\nMarion's sister Barbara Deering (1888–1987) married Richard Ely Danielson and also donated works to the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\n"}
{"id": "1899598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899598", "title": "Children used by adults in the commission of crime", "text": "Children used by adults in the commission of crime\n\nThe use, procuring or offering of a child by others for illegal activities, including the trafficking or production of drugs, is one of the \"predefined worst forms of child labour\" in terms of the International Labour Organization's Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, adopted in 1999.\n\nIt is also known as Children used by adults in the commission of crime (CUBAC).\n\nIn terms of the Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation ratifying countries should ensure that CUBAC is a criminal offence, and also provide for other criminal, civil or administrative remedies to ensure the effective enforcement of such national legislation (Article III(12) to (14)). \n\n"}
{"id": "52506387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52506387", "title": "Denzil Doyle", "text": "Denzil Doyle\n\nDenzil Doyle C.M. is an electrical engineer and entrepreneur who has become a prominent figure in the Ottawa technology community having been the \"founding president of Digital Equipment Corporation's Canadian subsidiary, one of the region's early high tech leaders. He ran the company for 18 years, during which annual sales reached $160 million.\" In his role with DEC he is especially notable for having brought together Canadian nuclear scientists with American DEC personnel to create the computers that evolved into the highly successful PDP-8 machines. Doyle is the Founder and Chairman of Doyletech Corporation, has been its President since November 1982. He is a Member of the Order of Canada.\n"}
{"id": "17617536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17617536", "title": "Fabio Biancalani", "text": "Fabio Biancalani\n\nFabio Dario Biancalani is an Argentine Justicialist Party politician. He sits in the Argentine Senate representing Chaco Province.\n\nPrior to entering politics, Biancalani ran his family's construction firm.\n\nBiancalani was elected to the Senate on the Frente Chaco Merece Más party list, and is part of the majority Front for Victory caucus. Biancalani reaped criticism for the cost of road maintenance contract for Chaco's Route 7. The contract had been awarded to the Adelmo Biancalani firm.\n"}
{"id": "4638886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4638886", "title": "Finance lease", "text": "Finance lease\n\nA finance lease (also known as a capital lease or a sales lease) is a type of lease in which a finance company is typically the legal owner of the asset for the duraton of the lease, while the lessee not only has operating control over the asset, but also has a substantial share of the economic risks and returns from the change in the valuation of the underlying asset. \n\nMore specifically, it is a commercial arrangement where:\n\nA finance lease has similar financial characteristics to hire purchase agreements and closed-end leasing as the usual outcome is that the lessee will become the owner of the asset at the end of the lease, but has different accounting treatments and tax implications. There may be tax benefits for the lessee to lease an asset rather than purchase it and this may be the motivation to obtain a finance lease.\n\n\nThe key IFRS criterion is:\n\nIf \"substantially all the risks and rewards\" of ownership are transferred to the lessee then it is a finance lease.\nIf it is not a finance lease then it is an operating lease.\nThe transfer of risk to the lessee may be shown by lease terms such as an option for the lessee to buy the asset at a low price (typically the residual value) at the end of the lease. The nature of the asset (whether it is likely to be used by anyone other than the lessee), the length of the lease term (whether it covers most of the useful life of the asset), and the present value of lease payments (whether they cover the cost of the asset) may also be factors.\n\nIFRS does not provide a rigid set of rules for classifying leases and there will always be borderline cases. It is also still sometimes possible to use leases to make balance sheets look better, provided that the lessee can justify treating them as operating leases.\n\nThe classification of large transactions, such as sale and leasebacks of property, may have a significant effect on the accounts and on measures of financial stability such as gearing. However, it is worth remembering that an improvement in financial gearing may be offset by a worsening of operational gearing and vice versa.\n\nIn the over 100 countries that govern accounting using International Financial Reporting Standards, the controlling standard is IAS 17, \"Leases\". However, it is currently being phased out, to be replaced with IFRS 16, \"Leases\" for reporting periods from 2019. While IAS 17 is similar in many respects to FAS 13 in the U.S., IAS 17 avoids the \"bright line\" tests (specifying an exact percentage as a limit) on the lease term and present value of the rents. Instead, IAS 17 has the following five tests. If any of these tests are met, the lease is considered a finance lease:\n\nIAS 17 is now transitioning to IFRS 16, as a joint project with the U.S. lease accounting standard. The standard was published in 2016, with companies required to have implemented it by 2019 or earlier. The criteria for being classified as a finance lease are similar to the above, but judgement is required - simply meeting one requirement may not be enough.\n\nIn Australia the accounting standard pertaining to lease is AASB 117 'Leases'. AASB 117 was released in July 2004. AASB 117 'Leases' applies to accounting for leases other than: (a) leases to explore for or use minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources; and (b) licensing agreements for such items as motion picture films, video recordings, plays, manuscripts, patents and copyrights.\n\nAccording to AASB 117, paragraph 4, a lease is: an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee in return for a payment or series of payments the right to use an asset for an agreed period of time.\n\nA lease is classified as a finance lease if it \"transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset.\" (AASB 117, p8) There are no strict guidelines as to what constitutes a finance lease, however guidelines are provided within the standard.\n\nFinance lease is one in which risk and rewards incidental to the ownership of the leased asset are transferred to lessee but not the actual ownership. Thus in case of finance lease we can say that notional ownership is passed to the lessee. The amount paid as interest during lease period is shown in P/l DR side of lessee\n\nFeatures:\n\nUnder US accounting standards, a finance (capital) lease is a lease which meets at least one of the following criteria:\n\nFollowing the GAAP accounting point of view, such a lease is classified as essentially equivalent to a \"purchase by the lessee\" and is capitalized on the lessee's balance sheet. See Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13 (FAS 13) for more details of classification and accounting.\n\nThe term sometimes means a special case of lease defined by Article 2A of the Uniform Commercial Code (specifically, Sec. 2A-103(1) (g)). Such a finance lease recognizes that some lessors are financial institutions or other business organizations that lease the goods in question purely as a financial accommodation and do not want to have the warranty and other entanglements that are usually associated with leases by companies that are manufacturers or merchants of such goods. Under a UCC 2A finance lease, the lessee pays the payments to the lessor (and indeed must do so, regardless of any defect in the leased goods – this obligation usually being contained in a \"hell or high water\" clause), but any claims related to defects in the leased goods may be brought only against the actual supplier of the goods. UCC 2A finance leases are usually easy to identify because they commonly contain a clause specifically declaring that the lease is to be considered a finance lease under UCC 2A.\n\n"}
{"id": "30086263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30086263", "title": "Formulary apportionment", "text": "Formulary apportionment\n\nFormulary apportionment, also known as unitary taxation, is a method of allocating profit earned (or loss incurred) by a corporation or corporate group to a particular tax jurisdiction in which the corporation or group has a taxable presence. It is an alternative to separate entity accounting, under which a branch or subsidiary within the jurisdiction is accounted for as a separate entity, requiring prices for transactions with other parts of the corporation or group to be assigned according to the arm's length standard commonly used in transfer pricing. In contrast, formulary apportionment attributes the corporation's total worldwide profit (or loss) to each jurisdiction, based on factors such as the proportion of sales, assets or payroll in that jurisdiction. \n\nWhen applied to a corporate group, formulary apportionment requires combined reporting of the group's results. The parent and all of its subsidiaries are viewed as though they were a single entity (\"unitary combination\"), and the method is then also known as \"worldwide unitary taxation\". In the US, most states have adopted water's edge combined reporting which restricts the taxable group to just US domestic corporations and excludes \"overseas business organization\", i.e., unitary foreign affiliates and foreign parents.\n\nFormulary methods are used in both the United States and Canada to apportion income of corporations between the sub-national jurisdictions in which they operate. In many U.S. states formulary apportionment is also used to apportion the combined income of a related group of companies. Tax in each US state is thus assessed based on the unitary combination of all related entities. The related entities included in the unitary combination may be worldwide entities or only entities within the United States, depending on the state. The latter is known as water's edge combined reporting. \n\nWorldwide unitary combined reporting was first approved by the US Supreme Court in 1983 in Container Corp. v. Franchise Tax Board (CA) by a vote of 5-3 (Justice Stevens did not participate). The court re-visited worldwide combined reporting in 1994 in Barclays Bank v. Franchise Tax Board (CA) and Colgate-Palmolive v. Franchise Tax Board (CA) and again approved its use by California but this time by larger majorities. The votes were 7-2 and 9-0, respectively. However, as a result of foreign retaliatory legislation and pressure from the federal government, all states have now abandoned mandatory worldwide combined reporting.\n\nThe use of formulary apportionment in the United States dates back to the late 19th century. At that time, there was no state or federal corporate income tax, but the states did assess property and capital stock taxes. With the growth of the transcontinental railroads, state taxation authorities faced companies which had not just immovable property (tracks) but also non-trivial movable property (rolling stock) operating across state lines. The property value of a company assessable to state tax was thus assessed by examining the proportion of value of railway lines within the state, and then taking that proportion of the company's total value (including the movable property) as the portion of value located within a certain state. When Wisconsin adopted a state income tax in 1911, it also used formulary apportionment (based on property, cost of manufacture, and sales), pointing to the impracticality of otherwise calculating separate accounts for companies operating in multiple states.\n\nBy the mid-20th century, the \"Massachusetts Formula\" had become a commonly used standard of formulary apportionment. The formula placed an equal weight on three factors: group sales, payroll, and property within each jurisdiction. Out of the forty-four states (plus one more jurisdiction, the District of Columbia) which imposed a corporate income tax in 1978, all but Iowa used the Massachusetts Formula. Iowa's formula ignored payroll and property, looking solely at sales; the constitutionality of this formula was challenged in the \"Moorman\" case in Iowa, and it was held invalid by a trial court under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as well as the Commerce Clause of Article One; however, the Iowa Supreme Court reversed the trial court in 1978. This marked the beginning of a trend towards increasing weight on sales at the expense of the other two factors; by 2004, there were only twelve states still using an equally weighted formula.\n\nFormulary apportionment is not used as a method of attributing profit between (rather than within) national tax jurisdictions. The adoption of formulary apportionment has been advocated at various times since the 1970s. The matter has been hotly debated by OECD member states beginning in the 1970s. In 2000 Joann Weiner and Charles E. McLure Jr. proposed the use of formulary apportionment within the European Union. In 2001, the EU issued a communication advocating the use of formulary apportionment. In 2007 Kimberley A. Clausing and Reuven Avi-Yonah suggested that the US Internal Revenue Service use formulary apportionment in the assessment of federal corporate income tax, believing it would lead to increased tax revenue in the face of a trend for multinational corporations to use transfer pricing to shift profits out of the US into low-tax countries. None of these suggestions has been adopted.\n\nSeveral US states allow, but do not mandate, that a corporate group include foreign entities for the purpose of assessing factors used in formulary apportionment (\"worldwide unitary combination\"). California, for example, began to accept worldwide unitary combination in the 1940s. However, its attempt to \"require\" such combination led to strong protests from US trading partners. The UK-US double taxation treaty signed in 1975 included a provision to prohibit US states from \"tak[ing] into account the income, deductions, receipts, or out-goings of a related enterprise\" in the United Kingdom or any other country for the purpose of determining tax liability. However, the US Senate, whose consent was required to ratify the treaty, rejected this provision, and the treaty was amended by a protocol in 1979. The Supreme Court explicitly held worldwide unitary combination as constitutional in separate cases in 1983 and 1994 (Barclays Bank PLC v. Franchise Tax Board). In 1985 the United Kingdom passed retaliatory legislation which would have overridden the UK-US tax treaty and denied significant UK tax benefits to corporations headquartered in US states which applied worldwide unitary taxation. This and further pressure from foreign governments, the executive branch and multinational corporations led US states to adopt a \"water's edge\" limitation on unitary combination, allowing taxpayers to decide for themselves whether or not to include foreign entities in their combined reporting.\n\nAdvocates claim that transfer pricing issues increase compliance costs, formulary apportionment reduces those costs and treating associated enterprises in a unitary fashion more closely reflects the underlying operating realities of multinational enterprises.\n\nCritics argue:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "599048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599048", "title": "Franchise agreement", "text": "Franchise agreement\n\nA Franchise Agreement is a legal, binding contract between a franchisor and franchisee. In the United States franchise agreements are enforced at the State level.\n\nPrior to a franchisee signing a contract, the US Federal Trade Commission regulates information disclosures under the authority of The Franchise Rule. The Franchise Rule requires a franchisee be supplied a Franchise Disclosure Document (FDD ) (originally called Uniform Franchise Offering Circular (UFOC )) prior to signing a franchise agreement, a minimum of fourteen days before signing a franchise agreement.\n\nOnce the Federal ten-day waiting period has passed, the Franchise Agreement becomes a State level jurisdiction document. Each state has unique laws regarding franchise agreements.\n\nA franchise agreement contents can vary significantly in content depending upon the franchise system, the state jurisdiction of the franchisor, franchisee, and arbitrator.\n\nIt overall provides the investor with a product, a branded name and recognition, and a support system.\n\nA typical franchise agreement contains\n\nTerms and conditions of franchise agreement\n\n"}
{"id": "45331106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45331106", "title": "Freedom to Speak Up Review", "text": "Freedom to Speak Up Review\n\nThe Freedom to Speak Up Review was a review into whistleblowing in the NHS in England. It was announced on 24 June 2014 and it was chaired by Sir Robert Francis. The review was originally expected to report in November 2014 but took longer because of a huge volume of input material: 17,500 online responses and 600 postal responses.\n\nThe report was published on 11 February 2015.\n\nFrancis outlined twenty principles and associated actions, then concluded by making just two recommendations:\n\nThe twenty principles to allow a consistent approach to raising concerns, while still allowing some flexibility, included:\n\nMany campaigners claimed that the recommendations did not go far enough.\n\nIn January 2016 Eileen Sills was appointed as the first Freedom to Speak Up National Guardian for the NHS.\nShe resigned two months later, citing that she did not have sufficient time to combine this role with her other work. Dr Henrietta Hughes was appointed as the second Freedom to Speak Up National Guardian in July 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9894545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9894545", "title": "FutureSAX", "text": "FutureSAX\n\nfutureSAX is the inner Saxony business plan competition of the Free State of Saxony in Germany that has an objective of lending support to start-up businesses and growing enterprises.\n\nThe competition is possible due to Businessplan-Wettbewerb Sachsen GmbH (BPWS), which is operated by the Sachsen Aufbaubank - Förderbank.\n\nPeople with an idea for an innovative product or service with high market potential is entitled to take part in FutureSAX for free.\n\nA condition is that the enterprise has a need for finances and the instatement of the business idea is intended to be in the state of Saxony. At least one team member must be able to provide proof of residency or work place in Saxony.\n\nFutureSAX is divided into three competition phases, in which the competing participants are aided under consultation in the development of their own business plans. During the course of the competition, the business ideas continually evolve; the participants profit from free seminar programs and the opportunity to correspond with others in their industry as well as sponsors of the competition.\n\nOn the basis of a business or development idea (phase one), the production of a business and marketing strategy develops (phase two) and a detailed and professional business plan (phase three) is constructed. Each phase ends with a confidential evaluation of the practicality of the business ideas by independent juries.\n\nThe business plans that have the most judicial approval are awarded with prize money. For the first two award ceremonies, four teams are awarded - one team each per the industries of technology, ITK, bio/nano-technology, and service. With the third award ceremony, five prizes in the three categories of “start-ups”, “growth”, and “special university prize” are awarded.\n\nApart from the phase's closing jury vote, the technical support is guaranteed to the competitors by sponsors, such as regularly offered coaching and seminar meetings about start-up relevant information.\n\nApart from the technical support with the development of business plans through FutureSAX, the opportunity is granted to the competitors to establish contacts to financial sources such as Venture Capitalists, etc. at the FutureSAX networking seminars.\n\nOn 7 November 2002, FutureSAX started as a Saxony industry competition for start-ups and recent growth enterprises. Thus, it replaced the IT Business Plan Competition, which was exclusive for the IT-industry that had existed since 1999 and was also presented by FutureSAX.\n\nSince 2002, more than 490 start-ups and entrepreneurs, as well as 10,000 participants in net-working meetings and workshops, have taken part in FutureSAX. However, in the 2006 competition, 140 teams took part and 188 business ideas, marketing concepts, and business plans were submitted. During the years 2003 through 2005, the competition grew approximately 67 percent.\n\nOn October 5, 2006, FutureSAX launched into its fifth open-industry competition, which ran until 18 July 2007. The total prize money amounted to 68,000 euros.\n\n"}
{"id": "21028836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21028836", "title": "Gert Joubert", "text": "Gert Joubert\n\nGert Joubert (born 1948 in Mowbray, Cape Town) is a Namibian businessperson. Joubert was born in South Africa but moved to Namibia during the 1960s. While in university, Joubert was followed as a suspected communist by the secret police of the apartheid regime until he approached the police and explained his support for capitalism. Joubert began his business career as a cattle entrepreneur near Otjiwarongo. In 2000, he ventured into eco-tourism and owns the Erindi Game Reserve near Omaruru in the Erongo Region.\n"}
{"id": "29636967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29636967", "title": "Grays Armory", "text": "Grays Armory\n\nGrays Armory is a historic building in Cleveland, Ohio. It was built by the Cleveland Grays, a private military company which was founded in 1837. This is one of the oldest standing buildings in downtown Cleveland.\n\nThe Cleveland Grays is a social organization devoted to the promotion of patriotism and the preservation of the military heritage of Greater Cleveland. It was founded as a volunteer private military company at a time when the common or constitutional militia languished due to disinterest and neglect by state politicians.\n\nThe unit's original purpose was twofold: to provide assistance and support to the local law enforcement authorities of the time as well as to provide a first line of defense for the city in the event that the fighting in Canada's Rebellions of 1837 spilled over the border and into the United States resulting in a third war with the United Kingdom in less than a century. The unit's motto is Semper Paratus (from the Latin: \"Always Ready\").\n\nThe first organizational meeting was held on August 28, 1837, and on September 18, seventy-eight men joined the active company. At the time of its founding, the unit was called The Cleveland City Guards but within the next year the membership decided that their organization would be known by reference to the gray color of their uniforms. On November 29, 1838 the Grays made one of the first of their many parade appearances fully dressed in their distinctive gray uniforms and tall black bearskin caps. As the years passed, those who had earned the status of \"Pioneer\" for their membership of twenty-five or more years were entitled to add leather aprons to their uniforms and to carry axes when on parade.\n\nThe Grays saw military service as a unit during the Civil War and the Spanish–American War. Reforms of the country's militia system which began with the Militia Act of 1903 and continued with subsequent legislation at the state and federal levels meant that the era of private military companies' official participation in national military affairs had come to an end and while the Grays, under the leadership of Ludwig S. Connelly, were able to enlist in the Ohio National Guard (ONG) for duty during the Mexican Punitive Expedition, they essentially did so as a group of private citizens enlisting \"en masse\" and not as a private military company. Their participation in World War I, which began immediately upon their ONG unit's release from duty on the Mexican border, was the last conflict in which the Grays saw active service even as a group of enlistees. Individual members have served in subsequent conflicts.\n\nThe Grays made their home in several different places from the time of their founding until the completion of their own building on Bolivar Road. The Grays' first armory was located on the fourth floor of the Mechanics Block, newly erected in 1838 at the southeast corner of Ontario Street and Prospect Street. In 1870, they moved into a building which had once served as a fire station on Frankfort Street. By March 20, 1880 the Grays had moved into the new City Armory on Long Street and used that facility as its headquarters along with the 5th Regiment, Ohio National Guard until December 8, 1892 when fire destroyed the building and much of its contents including equipment and guns belonging to the Grays. Major Otto Schade and several of his men were able to save a few items without any cost to their health or their lives. The unit was able to recover very quickly and funds were soon amassed for the purpose of building a new armory. Until construction was completed in 1893, the company found a temporary home at the Gatling Gun Battery Armory on Sibley Street.\n\nOn May 30, 1893. a three-ton Berea sandstone foundation block was put in place by Colonel John Frazee. The main portion of the building is four stories high, and the most notable feature is the five-story tower on the northeast corner of the building. The tower has '3 x 5' foundation blocks, the main entrance corners and the front window lintels are all of solid rough-hewn sandstone. The main entry arch rests on top of polished granite columns that rise from each cornerstone. Positioned above is a black iron drop-gate, and a gothic barrier between the front steps and the colossal oak doors. There were also pointed iron rods bolted to the scarlet brick walls that make up the window protectors on the first floor. The effect is a splendid mix of color and texture in materials. The overall design effectively conveys that this is an urban fortress.\n\nThe Cleveland Grays Armory has been long known for hosting the city's premiere social events. Grays Armory earned repute as an exclusive venue right from the beginning during the celebrations for Cleveland's Centennial (1896). The Grays Armory events went way beyond the customary military balls and band concerts typical during that era. This building was originally built to house weapons and provides a drill hall for the militia; this edifice quickly evolved into a vital community center for the turn-of-the century Clevelanders.\n\nThe Grays Armory Museum seeks to share its historical and cultural legacy with the public. Beyond stewardship of the building and conservation of artifacts, the museum strives to preserve the traditions and the rich heritage of those who serve their country and their community. The museum actively fulfills this objective by preserving, interpreting and presenting the military history of the United States. The museum regularly reaches out to Greater Cleveland by sponsoring open-house events intended to reach diverse audiences. Each Veterans Day, the museum presents a cultural and educational program honoring those who serve. In the past, programs that have included patriotic orchestra concerts and special touring exhibits. The Grays Armory can also be rented for special events such as private parties, weddings, receptions, and even proms.\n\nIn July, 1970 the 3 manual 17 rank pipe organ was installed. The organ originates from the Warner Theater in Erie, Pennsylvania. Three or four concerts per year are given on this organ, sponsored by the Western Reserve Theater Organ Society.\n"}
{"id": "2918600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2918600", "title": "Gustav Humbert", "text": "Gustav Humbert\n\nGustav Humbert (born February 1950 in Celle, West Germany) is the former Chief executive officer and President of Airbus SAS, and a former member of the EADS Executive Committee.\n\nHumbert joined Airbus management in July 2000, as the Chief operating officer and a member of the EADS' (Airbus' Parent company) Executive Committee, and in March 2004 he was appointed Airbus’ Executive Vice-President - Programmes. \n\nIn June 2005 he was appointed Airbus President and Chief Executive Officer, a position he held until 2 July 2006, when he resigned from these various positions as a result of further delays on the Airbus A380 production line and other delivery program setbacks, announced the previous month, on 14 June.\n\nWhile announcing his resignation, Humbert said the delays were a \"major disappointment\" for Airbus, and \"as President and CEO of Airbus, must take responsibility for this setback and ... offer my resignation to our shareholders.\"\n\nHumbert holds a degree in mechanical engineering from the Hannover Technical University as well as a PhD in engineering from the University of Hanover , and was even a visiting professor of mechanical engineering at McGill University in Montreal in 1979.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23583507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23583507", "title": "Heads of loss", "text": "Heads of loss\n\nIn contract law or tort law, the term heads of loss or heads of claim refers to categories of damage that a party may incur. It uses the term \"head\" in its sense of \"category\"; each head of loss refers to the damages that correspond to a particular category of duty.\n\nWhen used in the context of contracts, \"loss\" is the equivalent of damages at common law. The measure of such damages can be complex, but the starting position is to put the injured party in the same position (so far as money can accomplish) as if the contract had been correctly performed\n\nFor example, a book on \"Building Contract Claims\" lists the following \"more common heads of loss\":\n\n"}
{"id": "2794785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2794785", "title": "Hubs and nodes", "text": "Hubs and nodes\n\nHubs and nodes is a geographic model explaining how linked regions can co-operate to fulfill elements of an industry's value chain and collectively gain sufficient mass to drive innovation growth. The model of hubs and nodes builds on Porter's cluster model which served well in the past, but as businesses and regions around the world have adjusted to the realities of globalization, the concept of clusters is becoming outdated.\n\nCompanies are realizing that they may not require a particular stage of production to be in close geographic proximity. As barriers to long-distance national and global transactions have fallen through advances in technology and logistics, such as the growth of the Internet and overnight package services, it has become increasingly possible to relocate operations such as research, product development, and manufacturing to countries and regions with relevant expertise and lower costs. It is common among consumer goods, for example, to have concept generation centered in one locale, product testing and refinement in another, and manufacturing and distribution in still others. Elements of development, production and distribution are being more and more completed beyond the borders of historical clusters. \n\nAs more companies progress beyond the cluster model, they increasingly expand and diversify their operations to locations where their investments will be most profitable. For companies adequately prepared for the rapid globalization process, their research and development, manufacturing and distribution stages fare better as these businesses are able to reduce their costs and potentially realizing new efficiencies and increased speeds of product development. The spirit of the cluster model may remain intact, and the various stages of production will still be shared by a number of different entities, but geographical proximity need no longer bind the entities together\n"}
{"id": "40816936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40816936", "title": "Ilan Shiloah", "text": "Ilan Shiloah\n\nIlan Shiloah (also anglicised as Shiloach) is an Israeli businessman. He is the former CEO and chairman of McCann Erickson-Kesher-Barel, Israel's largest advertising firm. He is the chairman of The Time; a technology startups investment company. Since 2003, Shiloah has served on the Executive Board of McCann Erickson EMEA.\n\nShiloah was born in Maoz Haim, a Kibbutz in northern Israel. Drafted to the army in 1977, he served in the Special Forces unit Sayeret Matkal. After completing his service, Shiloah obtained a BA in Economics & Management from Tel Aviv University, where he also achieved an MBA.\n\nIn 1995, Shiloah was appointed as the CEO of Kesher-Barel, which later became McCann Erickson Israel (now part of McCann WorldGroup). Between the years 2009-2011 Shiloah sold his shares in the company to the global McCann Erickson Worldgroup.\n\nShiloah was the chairman of Matomy Media Group, a performance-based marketing company, from 2007 to 2015.\n\nShiloah is the co-founder, major shareholder and chairman of The Time; an investment company founded in 2009 focusing on young innovative technology startups in the areas of new media (T.I.M.E). The Time had invested in dozens of start-up companies in the new media market, during the last few years (two examples being MySiteApp and Getonic.)\n\nIn 2015, Channel 10, of which Shiloah was a minority shareholder, entered financial difficulties and Shiloah attempted to take full control of the broadcaster in return for taking on the existing debts of around NIS 200 million. Shiloah's offer was rejected in favour of an offer by RGE.\n\nShiloah is currently chairman of Silenseed, a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company.\n\nShiloah is twice divorced and has four daughters. He is married to Shira Margalit, daughter of Dan Margalit. Shiloah lives in Tel Aviv.\n"}
{"id": "7117117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7117117", "title": "Inside director", "text": "Inside director\n\nAn inside director is a member of the board of directors of a corporation who is also a member of the corporation's management, almost always a corporate officer. For example, a chief executive officer who is also chairman of the board would be considered an inside director. A chief financial officer, executive vice president, or other corporate executive who is a member of the board is also an inside director. Inside directors commonly enjoy seats on boards because they own equity in the company.\n\nInside directors are differentiated from outside directors, who do not hold a management position in the corporation which the board governs.\n"}
{"id": "605080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605080", "title": "International Color Consortium", "text": "International Color Consortium\n\nThe International Color Consortium (ICC) was formed in 1993 by eight vendors in order to create an open, vendor-neutral color management system which would function transparently across all operating systems and software packages.\n\nThe ICC specification, currently on version 4.3, allows for matching of color when moved between applications and operating systems, from the point of creation to the final output, whether display or print. This specification is technically identical to ISO 15076-1:2010, available from ISO.\n\nThe ICC profile which describe the color attributes of a particular device or viewing requirement by defining a mapping between the source or target color space and a \"profile connection space\" (PCS).\n\nThe ICC defines the format precisely but does not define algorithms or processing details. This means there is room for variation between different applications and systems that work with ICC profiles.\n\nICC has also published a preliminary specification for iccMAX, a next-generation color management architecture with significantly expanded functionality and a choice of colorimetric, spectral or material connection space. Details are at http://www.color.org/iccmax/\n\nThe eight founding members of the ICC were Adobe, Agfa, Apple, Kodak, Microsoft, Silicon Graphics, Sun Microsystems, and Taligent.\n\nSince then Sun Microsystems, Silicon Graphics, and Taligent have left the organization, and many other firms have become ICC members, including, ,\nCanon,\nFuji,\nFujitsu,\nHeidelberg Printing Machines AG,\nHewlett–Packard,\nKonica Minolta,\nKyocera,\nLexmark,\nNEC,\nNikon,\nNokia,\nOKI Data,\nSun Chemical,\nHeidelberger Druckmaschinen,\nand X-Rite.\n\nAt the beginning of 2014, ICC membership has grown to a total of 61 members, including their founding, regular, and honorary members. Aside from members of the photography, printing, and painting industry, new members from several different industries include MathWorks, Nokia, Sony Corporation, and Signazon.com.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28800715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28800715", "title": "Jobst Wagner", "text": "Jobst Wagner\n\nJobst Wagner (born February 20, 1959) is a Swiss entrepreneur.\n\nAfter attending schools in Canada, Germany and Switzerland, Jobst Wagner graduated in law (lic.jur.) from the University of Bern. Starting in 1986, he worked in different positions at Rehau Group, a company founded by his father Helmut Wagner in 1948 in Rehau, Germany. In 2000, Helmut Wagner transferred control of the company to his sons Jobst and Veit Wagner.\n\nJobst Wagner has three adult children.\n\nAs president of the supervisory board of the Rehau group, he leads a worldwide group of companies with approximately 18,000 employees in more than 50 countries. The independent, privately held company operates around the globe as a system manufacturer of polymer-based solutions for the construction, automotive and industry sector. The REHAU Group has also a subsidiary, which produces appliances for the medical industry. RAUMEDIC celebrating 10th anniversary\n\nJobst Wagner is also one of the largest shareholders of the SMH Verlag AG and is member of the Supervisory Board. He is the founder and the Research Council within the Foundation StrategieDialog21. The StrategieDialog21 (SD21) sees itself as a dialogue platform with a focus on federally-liberal values and derived strategic approaches and impulses for Switzerland.\n\nAt the company’s corporate headquarter in Rehau, Germany, Wagner is making art accessible to employees and the public with the Rehau Art gallery, which organizes various events and exhibitions. One such exhibition displays woodcarvings by the Swiss artist Franz Gertsch.\n\nWagner also supports a large number of cultural institutions in Switzerland. Amongst others, he is the president of the Kunsthalle Bern foundation, member of the foundation board for the Bern Kunstmuseum and GegenwART foundation, as well as advisory board member of the Bern University of the Arts. Together with the Hochfranken business initiative he also supports the International Film Festival Hof.\n\nIn 1999, Wagner received an award for his activities with GegenwART of the ‘Handels- und Industrieverein’ Bern.\n\nHe is also an honorary citizen of La Chapelle-Saint-Ursin, France.\n\nIn 2018 Bavarian State Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Technology Franz Josef Pschierer awarded REHAU group president Jobst Wagner the State Medal for special services to the Bavarian economy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4454344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4454344", "title": "Johan Eliasch", "text": "Johan Eliasch\n\nJohan Eliasch (born February 1962) is a Swedish billionaire businessman, and the chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of Head N.V., the global sporting goods group, and the former Special Representative of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.\n\nHe is on the board of directors of Equity Partners, Aman Resorts, London Films, the Foundation for Renewable Energy and Environment, Longleat. He is an advisory board member of the All-Party Parliamentary Group for the Polar Regions, Brasilinvest, Societe du Louvre, Stockholm Resilience Centre, Capstar, Centre for Social Justice and the British Olympic Association. He is a member of the Mayors of Jerusalem and Rome's International Business Advisory Councils. He is the first president of the Global Strategy Forum, a trustee of Cool Earth and a patron of Stockholm University.\n\nHe has also served on the boards of IMG (2006-13) and the British Paralympics Association, the sports advisory board of Shimon Peres Peace Centre, the advisory board of the World Peace Foundation. He was non-executive chairman and a non-executive director of Starr Managing Agents 2008-2015. He was non-executive chairman of Investcorp Europe 2010-2014. He was non-executive director of Acasta Enterprises 2015-17. He was a trustee of the Kew Foundation 2010-2016. He chaired the Food, Energy and Water security program at RUSI 2010-2016. He was a member of the Mayor of London’s (Boris Johnson) International Business Advisory Council 2008-2016.\n\nJohan Eliasch was born in February 1962, in Djursholm, Sweden. He has a bachelor's degree in business administration from Stockholm University and a master's degree of science from the Royal Institute of Technology. He did military service in a specialist unit, the Royal Life Guard (K1) 1980-81.\n\nEliasch is the grandson of G. A. Svensson, a leading Swedish industrialist who \"made a killing in real estate\".\n\nHe is a Swedish and British citizen. He has a competitive background in skiing, motor racing, curling, golf and tennis.\n\nEliasch began his career in turning around companies in 1985, when he joined the London-based private equity firm Tufton Group.\n\nEliasch, a conservative, served in the British Government, as the non-political Special Representative of the then Labour Party Prime Minister Gordon Brown on Deforestation and Clean Energy from 2007 to 2010. He served in different roles for the Conservative Party between 1999 and 2007, as Party Deputy Treasurer (2003–07), Special Advisor to the Leaders of the opposition (William Hague and Iain Duncan Smith) and shadow Foreign Secretaries (Michael Howard, Francis Maude and Michael Ancram) (1999–2006). He covered Shadow Foreign Relations (2003–2006) as part of the Shadow Foreign Office team. In 2006 he and Michael Ancram set up Global Strategy Forum, a foreign affairs think tank based in London; he remains President. He was a member of the Austrian President's delegation of State for Trade and Industry 1996-2006. He was chairman of the Young Conservatives Party in Djursholm, Sweden (1979–1982).\n\nIn 2005, Eliasch created the Rainforest Trust and purchased for preservation purposes a rainforest area in the heart of the Amazon rainforest near the Madeira River.\n\nIn 2006, he co-founded Cool Earth, a charity he co-chairs, which sponsors local NGOs to conserve endangered rainforest and has over 120,000 registered members.\n\nIn 2007 he was commissioned by HM Government to undertake an independent review on the role of international finance mechanisms to preserve the global forests in tackling climate change, \" 'The Eliasch Review' \", which was launched by the British Prime Minister Gordon Brown at 10 Downing Street in October 2008. The \" Eliasch Review \" has served as a guideline for REDD (Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation) as part of the international climate change convention.\n\nEliasch was married to Amanda Eliasch, a photographer and filmmaker, from 1988 to 2006; and they have two sons. Their son Charles Eliasch is an opera singer.\n\n"}
{"id": "15043533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15043533", "title": "John Avery McIlhenny", "text": "John Avery McIlhenny\n\nJohn Avery McIlhenny (1867–1942) was an American businessman, soldier, politician and public servant. He was the eldest son of Tabasco sauce inventor Edmund McIlhenny.\n\nBorn on Avery Island, Louisiana, McIlhenny was educated on the Island by private tutors before attending Dr. Holbrook's Military School in Sing Sing (now Ossining), New York and Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts. He later attended business school in Poughkeepsie, New York, as well as Tulane and Harvard universities (although he did not complete his studies).\n\nIn the late 1880s McIlhenny worked as a clerk on a ship in the Gulf of Mexico, but returned to Avery Island on the death of his father in 1890. Assuming control of Tabasco operations, he ran McIlhenny Company for eight years, expanding and modernizing production, and increasing promotion and advertising of the increasingly famous product.\n\nIn 1898 McIlhenny resigned from the company to serve in the Spanish–American War, joining Theodore Roosevelt's Rough Riders volunteer cavalry regiment. \"[B]y his high qualities and zealous attention to duty,\" wrote Roosevelt in his memoir of the campaign, McIlhenny \"speedily rose to a sergeantcy, and finally won his lieutenancy for gallantry in action.\" McIlhenny participated in the Battle of Las Guasimas and the Battle of San Juan Hill and continued to serve despite suffering from measles and malaria.\n\nOn his return to civilian life, McIlhenny served in the Louisiana State Legislature, winning a seat in the Louisiana House of Representatives from 1900 to 1904 and in the state Senate from 1904 to 1906 as a Democrat. A close companion of Theodore Roosevelt, in 1906 he accepted then President Roosevelt's offer to help oversee the United States Civil Service Commission, during which he enacted numerous reforms which streamlined the federal bureaucracy. McIlhenny retained his position with the commission under Roosevelt's successor, William Howard Taft, as well as under Woodrow Wilson.\n\nHe resigned in 1919, however, to accept a position with the U.S. State Department as a financial adviser to Haiti, during the island republic's occupation by the U.S. Marines. During his time in Haiti, he clashed with Haitian president Philippe Sudré Dartiguenave over economic issues, which resulted in McIlhenny suspending Dartiguenave's salary, causing a diplomatic crisis and inviting private criticism from the U.S. State Department.\n\nMcIlhenny retired in 1922 and settled in a farmhouse near Charlottesville, Virginia. Over the next several years he renewed his interest in McIlhenny Company, helping with its reorganization, as a major shareholder in the family-owned company. After a prolonged illness, McIlhenny died in 1942 and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "972312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=972312", "title": "Liquid air", "text": "Liquid air\n\nLiquid air is air that has been cooled to very low temperatures (cryogenic temperatures), so that it has condensed into a pale blue mobile liquid. To thermally insulate it from room temperature, it is stored in specialized containers (Vacuum insulated flasks are often used). Liquid air can absorb heat rapidly and revert to its gaseous state. It is often used for condensing other substances into liquid and/or solidifying them, and as an industrial source of nitrogen, oxygen, argon, and other inert gases through a process called air separation.\n\nLiquid air has a density of approximately 870 kg/m (0.87 g/cm), though the density may vary depending on the elemental composition of the air. Since dry gaseous air contains approximately 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen, and 1% argon, the density of liquid air at standard composition is calculated by the percentage of the components and their respective liquid densities (see liquid nitrogen and liquid oxygen). Although air contains trace amounts of carbon dioxide (about 0.040%), this gas sublimes (transfers directly between gas and solid, and therefore does not exist as a liquid) at pressures less than 5.1 atmospheres.\n\nThe boiling point of liquid air is -194.35 °C, intermediate between the boiling points of liquid nitrogen and liquid oxygen. However, it can be difficult to keep at a stable temperature as the liquid boils, since the nitrogen will boil off first, leaving the mixture oxygen-rich and changing the boiling point. This may also occur in some circumstances due to the liquid air condensing oxygen out of the atmosphere.\n\nLiquid air freezes at approximately 58 K (-215 °C)(-355 F), also at standard atmospheric pressure.\n\nThe constituents of air were once known as \"permanent gases\", as they could not be liquified solely by compression at room temperature. A compression process will raise the temperature of the gas. This heat is removed by cooling to the ambient temperature in a heat exchanger, and then expanding by venting into a chamber. The expansion causes a lowering of the temperature, and by counter-flow heat exchange of the expanded air, the pressurized air entering the expander is further cooled. With sufficient compression, flow, and heat removal, eventually droplets of liquid air will form, which may then be employed directly for low temperature demonstrations.\n\nThe main constituents of air were liquefied for the first time by Polish scientists Zygmunt Florenty Wróblewski and Karol Olszewski in 1883.\n\nDevices for the production of liquid air are simple enough to be fabricated by the experimenter using commonly available materials.\n\nThe most common process for the preparation of liquid air is the two-column Hampson–Linde cycle using the Joule–Thomson effect. Air is fed at high pressure (>60 psig, or 520 kPa) into the lower column, in which it is separated into pure nitrogen and oxygen-rich liquid. The rich liquid and some of the nitrogen are fed as reflux into the upper column, which operates at low pressure (<10 psig, or 170 kPa), where the final separation into pure nitrogen and oxygen occurs. A raw argon product can be removed from the middle of the upper column for further purification.\n\nIn manufacturing processes, the liquid air product is fractionated into its constituent gases in either liquid or gaseous form, as the oxygen is especially useful for fuel gas welding and cutting, and the argon is useful as an oxygen-excluding shielding gas in gas tungsten arc welding. Liquid nitrogen is useful in various low-temperature applications, being nonreactive at normal temperatures (unlike oxygen), and boiling at .\n\nBetween 1899 and 1902, the automobile Liquid Air was produced and demonstrated by a joint American/English company, with the claim that they could construct a car that would run a hundred miles on liquid air.\n\nOn 2 October 2012, the Institution of Mechanical Engineers said liquid air could be used as a means of storing energy. This was based on a technology that was developed by Peter Dearman, a garage inventor in Hertfordshire, England to power vehicles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6680729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6680729", "title": "Ned Herrmann", "text": "Ned Herrmann\n\nWilliam Edward \"Ned\" Herrmann (1922 – December 24, 1999) was an American creativity researcher and author, known for his research in creative thinking and whole-brain methods. He is considered the \"father of brain dominance technology.\"\n\nAt Cornell University, Herrmann majored in both physics and music in the Class of 1943. He continued to study at the Graduate Studies R.P.I., New York University.\n\nAfter graduation Hermann became manager of Management Education for General Electric (GE) in 1970. His primary responsibility was to oversee training program design; specifically, maintaining or increasing an individual's productivity, motivation, and creativity.\n\nIn 1978, Herrmann created the \"Herrmann Participant Survey Form.\" He profiled workshop participant's thinking styles and learning preferences in accord with brain dominance theory. This quickly evolved into a theory of stable brain quadrants, independent of brain anatomy facts, each with its own characteristic “genius.” He developed the Herrmann Brain Dominance Instrument (HBDI), the scored and analyzed Participant Survey, and designed the Applied Creative Thinking Workshop (ACT), which remains a leading personality assessment instrument and workshop topic in corporate training.\n\nHerrmann's contributions brought him worldwide recognition. In 1992, he received the Distinguished Contribution to Human Resource Development Award from the American Society for Training & Development (ASTD). In 1993, he was elected President of The American Creativity Association.\n\nHerrmann was a pioneer in exploring, explicating and expanding understanding of the brain in close-up view as a four quadrant system. He was one of the first to ascertain, through testing, how individuals use or prefer one, two, three or all four possible brain quadrants. His approach to brain balance was to encourage experiments, use and exercise of weaker quadrants through live, in-person games, small group processes and discussion. This evolved into more and better ideas about whole-brainedness.\n\nHe spent 30 years from approximately 1964-1996, exploring and explicating Herrmann Brain Dominance Instrument to teaching, learning, increased self-understanding and enhanced creative thinking capabilities, on both an individual and corporate level.\n\nBooks:\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "21240126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21240126", "title": "Nurlan Bizakov", "text": "Nurlan Bizakov\n\nNurlan Seydinovich Bizakov () is a Kazakhstani businessman. He is the chairman and major shareholder of Kazphosphate, one of Kazakhstan's largest phosphorus producers. He bought the company in 2007 from Nahum Galmor for an estimated sum of $120 million. He is also chairman of JSC Sumbe, an oil exploration and trading company.\n\n"}
{"id": "11171340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11171340", "title": "Overtime rate", "text": "Overtime rate\n\nOvertime rate is a calculation of hours worked by a worker that exceed those hours defined for a standard workweek. This rate can have different meanings in different countries and jurisdictions, depending on how that jurisdiction's labor law defines overtime. In many jurisdictions, additional pay is mandated for certain classes of workers when this set number of hours is exceeded. In others, there is no concept of a standard workweek or analogous time period, and no additional pay for exceeding a set number of hours within that week.\n\nThe overtime rate calculates the ratio between employee overtime with the regular hours in a specific time period. Even if the work is planned or scheduled, it can still be considered overtime if it exceeds what is considered the standard workweek in that jurisdiction.\n\nA high overtime rate is a good indicator of a temporary or permanent high workload, and can be a contentious issue in labor-management relations. It could result in a higher illness rate, lower safety rate, higher labor costs, and lower productivity.\n\nIn the United States a standard workweek is considered to be 40 hours. Most waged employees or so-called non-exempt workers under U.S. federal labor and tax law must be paid at a wage rate of 150% of their regular hourly rate for hours that exceed 40 in a week. The start of the pay week can be defined by the employer, and need not be a standard calendar week start (e.g., Sunday midnight). Many employees, especially shift workers in the U.S., have some amount of overtime built into their schedules so that 24/7 coverage can be obtained.\n\nformula_1\n\n"}
{"id": "51635439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51635439", "title": "Pallache family", "text": "Pallache family\n\n\"Pallache\" – also (de) Palacio(s), Palache, Palachi, Palacci, Palaggi, and many other variations (documented below) – is the surname of a prominent, Ladino-speaking, Sephardic Jewish family from the Iberian Peninsula, who spread mostly through the Mediterranean after the Alhambra Decree of March 31, 1492, and related events.\n\nThe Pallache have had connections with both Portuguese and Spanish Sephardic communities, as detailed below.\n\nThe Pallache established themselves in cities in Portugal (?), Morocco, the Netherlands, Turkey, Egypt, and other countries from the 1500s through the 1900s. The family includes Chief Rabbis, rabbis, founders of synagogues and batei midrash, scientists, entrepreneurs, writers, and others. Best known to date are: Moroccan envoys and brothers Samuel Pallache (ca. 1550–1616) and Joseph Pallache, at least three grand rabbis of Izmir – Gaon. Haim Palachi (1788–1868), his sons Abraham Palacci (1809–1899) and Rahamim Nissim Palacci (1814–1907), grand rabbi of Amsterdam Isaac Juda Palache (1858-1927), American mineralogist Charles Palache (1869–1954), and Dutch linguist Juda Lion Palache (1886–1944).\n\nIn 1480, Queen Isabella I of Castile and King Ferdinand II of Aragon established a Tribunal of the Holy Office of the Inquisition (), commonly known as the Spanish Inquisition (\"Inquisición española\"). Its dual purpose was to maintain Catholic orthodoxy in Spain while replacing the Medieval Inquisition under Papal control. On March 31, 1492, Isabella and Ferdinand issued the Alhambra Decree (or \"Edict of Expulsion\"), thereby ordering the expulsion of practicing Jews from the Kingdoms of Castile and Aragon, its territories, and it possessions by July 31 that year–in four months. Jews who had converted to Christianity (\"conversos\") were safe from expulsion. Some 200,000 Jews converted; between 40,000 and 100,000 fled from the kingdom. (On December 16, 1968, Spain revoked the Alhambra Edict. On June 25, 2015, King Felipe VI of Spain announced Law Number 12/2015, which grants right of return to Sephardic Jews. There are criticisms about shortcomings in the law. By October 2016, Spain had processed more than 4,500 applicants, of which only three (3) had gained citizenship based on the actual law: the rest (number unstated) were naturalized by royal decree.\")\n\nOn December 5, 1496, King ManueI of Portugal decreed that all Jews must convert to Catholicism or leave the country. Jews who converted to Christianity were known as New Christians. This initial edict of expulsion turned into an edict of forced conversion by 1497. In 1506, the Lisbon Massacre erupted. In 1535, Portugal launched its own inquisition. Portuguese Jews fled to the Ottoman Empire (notably Thessaloniki and Constantinople and to Morocco. Some went to Amsterdam, France, Brazil, Curaçao, and the Antilles. Some of the most famous descendants of Portuguese Jews who lived outside Portugal are the philosopher Baruch Spinoza (from Portuguese Bento de Espinosa), and the classical economist David Ricardo. While Portugal was under control of the Philippine Dynasty of the House of Habsburg (1581–1640), the Portuguese Inquisition blended with the Spanish.\n\nThe combined Spanish-Portuguese inquisitions caused one of the largest diasporas in Jewish history.\n\nAccording to Professor Mercedes García-Arenal, the Pallaches were \"a Sephardi family perhaps descended from the \"Bene Palyāj\" mentioned by the twelfth-century chronicler Abraham Ibn Da’ud as 'the greatest of the families of Córdoba'.\"\n\nAccording to Professor Giovanna Fiume, \"Verso i Paesi Bassi emigra anche la famiglia Pallache, forse dal Portogallo o dalla Spagna, oppure, secundo un'altra ipotesti, dalla nativa Spagna emigra a Fez.\" (translation: \"The Pallache family also emigrated to the Netherlands, perhaps from Portugal or Spain, or, second, another hypothesizes, they emigrated [directly] from their native Spain to Fez.\")\n\nAccording to Professor Reginald Aldworth Daly, the Pallaches were \"persecuted Sephardim Jews of Portugal who were exiled to Holland.\"\n\nJosé Maria Abecassis cites historian Abraham ibn Daud of Toledo (ca. 1110–1180), who wrote: \"Segundo o historiador Abraham Ben Daud (\"Sepher Ha-Qabbalah\", 69) a família Pallache já era célebre em Córdova no séc. 10. Após a expulsão de Espanha em 1492 foi para Marrocos, donde posteriormente se ramificou na Holanda, Turquia, Palestina e em Gibraltar.\"<br>\"Outras grafias: Palatio, Pallacío, Payachia. \"<br>\"Membros desta familia prestaram serviços eminentes a Marrocos no séc. 17. Distinguiram-se como embaixadores ou enviados dos sultões na Europa, especialmente na Holanda. Estabeleceram relações diplomáticas e criaram importantes trocas comerciais com o seu país.\"<br>\"Os Palaçano viviam em Portugal antes da Expulsão.\"<br> According to the historian Abraham Ben Daud (\"Sepher Ha-Qabbalah\", 69) the Pallache family was already famous in Cordoba in the 10th century. After expulsion from Spain in 1492, they went to Morocco, where later they branched out to Holland, Turkey, Palestine, and Gibraltar.<br> Other spellings: Palatio, Pallacío, Payachia.<br> Members of this family provided eminent services to Morocco in the 17th century. They distinguished themselves as ambassadors or envoys of the Sultans in Europe, especially in Holland. They established diplomatic relations and created important trade with their country.<br>The Palaçano lived in Portugal before the Expulsion.\n\nAt present, it is unclear as to whether members of the Pallache family went first to Portugal after Spain. However, new findings show that their intermarriage started earlier than supposed in \"A Man in Three Worlds\" (see \"Netherlands,\" below).\n\n Jewish presence in Morocco goes back to Carthage, fared moderately, and often prospered under Muslim rule (e.g., the Marinid dynasty). From Morocco, they filtered into Al-Andalus (Islamic Spain, 711–1492) but began to return during the Spanish Reconquista, which mounted in the 10th Century. The Spanish-Portuguese expulsions and inquisitions sent floods of Jews back to Morocco on a larger scale. Resultant overcrowding in Moroccan cities led to tension, fires, and famines in Jewish quarters.\n\nMoïse Al Palas (also Moses al-Palas) (???–1535), born in Marrakesh, was a rabbi who moved to Tetuán and lived for a time in Salonica, then in the Ottoman Empire. Before dying in Venice, he published \"Va-Yakhel Moshe\" (1597) and \"Ho'il Moshe\" (1597), and an autobiography.\n\nIsaac Pallache was a rabbi in Fez, Morocco, first mentioned in \"takkanot\" (Jewish community statutes) in 1588. His sons were Samuel Pallache (ca. 1550–1616) and Joseph Pallache. Isaac was married to a sister of Fez's grand rabbi, Judah Uziel; his nephew Isaac Uziel became a rabbi of the Neve Shalom community in Amsterdam.\n\n Jews began to settle in the Netherlands only at the end of the 16th Century. Thanks to its own recent (1581) independence from Spanish control, the Dutch Republic attracted Sephardic Jews in the Netherlands as a refuge from a common enemy, Spain.\n\nAfter an unsuccessful attempt to return to Spain in the mid-1600s, Samuel and Joseph Pallache settled a new branch of the Pallache family in the Netherlands by 1608. There, they represented their benefactor, Zidan al-Nasir of Morocco, as well as the Dutch government, in complex negotiations with Morocco, the Netherlands, Spain, France, England, the Ottoman Empire, and other European states – often on behalf of more than one sponsoring state and (as stateless Jews) on their own behalf.\n\nThe sons of both brothers continued in their fathers's footsteps, some remaining in the Netherlands (e.g., David Pallache), others returning to Morocco (e.g., Moses Pallache).\n\nIn the Netherlands, the surname solidified as \"Palache\" (a spelling variation which started in the 16th Century), and the family continues as Palache in the Netherlands to the present. In recent times, prominent members have included grand rabbi Isaac Juda Palache (1858-1927) and his son, Professor Juda Lion Palache (1887-1944).\n\n\"A Man in Three Worlds\" did not find intermarriage between the Pallache brothers or sons and members of the Portuguese Sephardic community in the Netherlands. In fact, it documents the contrary, e.g., that sons Isaac and Joshuae did not go make such marriages. \"It seems significant that no male member of the Pallache family ever married a woman from the Portuguese community... it is surely significant that neither Samuel nor any of his heirs were ever to marry into the great trading families of 'the Portuguese nation'.\" In September 2016, however, two 1643 marriage certificates were discovered for David Pallache (1598–1650) and Judith Lindo (???–October 30, 1665) of Antwerp, daughter of Ester Lindo Death details for David Pallache also confirm the marriage. Further, three years later, in 1646, Samuel Pallache (1616–???), son of Isaac Joseph Pallache and nephew of David Joseph Pallache, married Abigail (born 1622), sister of Judith Lindo.\n\n Jewis have lived in Asia Minor (Turkey) since the 5th Century BCE. The Ottoman Empire welcomed Sephardic Jews expelled from the Iberian Peninsula. (Today, the majority of Turkish Jews live in Israel, while modern-day Turkey continues to host a modest Jewish population.)\n\nThe first reported Pallache in Turkey (then, the Ottoman Empire) dates to 1695, when Isaac Pallache of Leghorn (Livorno, Italy) wrote a letter to the Dutch consul in Smyrna (1695) Currently, it is unknown whether the Pallache settled first in Istanbul or Izmir.\n\nThe Pallache appear in Izmir (then, \"Smyrna\") no later than the time of rabbi Jacob Pallache, who married the daughter of a previous grand rabbi Joseph Raphael ben Hayyim Hazzan. Jacob's son became grand rabbi Haim Palachi (1788–1868), two of whose sons, Abraham (1809–1899) and Isaac aka Rahamim Nissim (1814–1907) also became grand rabbis there.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopedia of Jews in the Islamic World\": The Pallache... produced several leading rabbinical scholars in the Ottoman city of Izmir (Smyrna) during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Two of them, Hayyim ben Jacob and his sone Abraham, served as chief rabbi (\"hakham bashi\") and became the focus of a fierce dispute that engulfed the town's Jewish community, while a third, Soloman ben Abraham, contributed to its decline.\n\nThe Pallache continued in Turkey past the 1922 great fire of Smyrna; some left during Allied evacuation during World War II and died during the Holocaust (see below).\n\n The Torah documents a long history of Jews in Egypt. Jews lived quietly under the Romans until the advent of Christianity (e.g., Emperor Heraclius I and Patriarch Cyrus of Alexandria). After the Arab conquest, Jews survived reasonably well under the Tulunids (863–905), the Fatimids (969–1169), and the Ayyubids (1174–1250) during whose rule Maimonides lived. Under the Bahri Mamluks (1250–1390), Jews began to feel less secure and less so under the Burji Mamluks (1390–1517). The Ottomans (1517–1922) took more active interest in the Jewish community and made substantial changes in their governance. Shabbatai Zvi visited Cairo, where his movement continued under Abraham Miguel Cardozo, physician to the pasha Kara Mohammed. Following the Damascus Affair, Moses Montefiore, Adolphe Crémieux, and Salomon Munk visited Egypt in 1840 and helped found schools with Rabbi Moses Joseph Algazi.\n\nIt was a period of rapid change in Egypt. As of 1867, the government began changing from \"pasha\" to \"khedive\", to \"sultan\" and threw off Ottoman suzerainty. It also saw the building of the Suez Canal. Political unrest exploded after World War I, led by Saad Zaghlul and the Wafd Party) and culminating in the Egyptian revolution of 1919 and the issue by the UK government (colonial controllers in the 1800s) of a unilateral declaration of Egyptian independence on February 22, 1922.. (See History of Egypt under the British.) The new Egyptian government drafted and implemented a constitution in 1923 based on a parliamentary system. In 1924, Zaghlul became Prime Minister of Egypt. In 1936, Egypt concluded a new treaty with the UK. In 1952, the 1952 Revolution of the Free Officers Movement forced King Farouk to abdicate in support of his son Fuad, secured a British promise of withdrawal by 1954–1956, and led to the accession of Egypt's first modern president Gamal Abdel-Nasser.\n\nNo later than the close of the 19th Century, a branch of the Pallache family had settled in Egypt, with some remaining in Cairo into the 1950s.\n\nWhich members of the family had what foreign citizenship is as yet undetermined, e.g., Spanish under the Decree-Law of 29 December 1948 (\"Decreto-Ley de 29 de Deciembre de 1948\") to extend Spanish protection for Sephardic Jews in Greece and Egypt: \" DECRETO-LEY de 29 de diciembre de 1948 por el que se reconoce la condición de súbditos españoles en 1. extranjero a determinados sefardies protegidos de España: Por Canje de Notas efectuado por España con Egipto el dieciséis y diecisiete de enero de mil novecientos treinta y cinco, y con Grecia el siete de abril de mil novecientos treinta y seis, se convino que España continuarla otorgando su patrocinio y documentando, en consecuencia, a una serie de familias sefardies que, desde tiempos del imperIo ottoman, gozaban en aquellos territorios de tal gracia; y a dicho efecto, y como anejo a las referidas Notas, se establecireron unas listas, cuidadosamente seleccionadas, de esos beneficiarios, cuya futura condición de súbditos españoles se preveía en aquellas Notas...\"<br>\n\nIn 1897, Palacci brothers Vita, Henri, and family established the \"Palacci\" (Arabic \"Balaatshi\") department store. In 1904, the company's name was \"Palacci Menasce et Fils\",). Shortly thereafter, it had become \"Palacci Fils, Haim et Cie\", located on Muski street near the old Opera House. By 1907, Vita Palacci had become head of the store. Also in 1907, the \"Jewish Chronicle\" of London mentions \"Mr. Vita Pallacci, the distinguished chief of the house of Palacci Pils, Halm and Co., which is well known inEurope and America.\" By 1909, the Palacci had partnered with A. Hayam, and the store employed 20 office clerks and more than 100–120 sales staff. In 1910, \"Albert Palacci & Co.\" appears as a Cairo firm interested in trading in silk. At an unclear date, \"Palacci, Menasce & Co.\" are recorded as having stores in Cairo, Tanta, and Mansoura.\n\nIn 1916, \"Palacci, Fils, Haym, and Co.\" were listed among \"persons who have been granted licenses to trade in Egypt, with the British Empire, and with Allies of Great Britain.\" The same year, \"Palacci Fil, Haim & Co.\" filed a suit against \"Mohamed Moh. Sélim.\"\n\nAs community leaders, the Palacci supported Jewish causes inside and outside Egypt. In 1907, Vita Palacci was serving as president of \"la société de bienfaisence a \"Hachemia\"\": \"En 1901, fut fondée au Caire une société de bienfaisance israélite dénommée \"Hachemia.\" Cette institution qui est l'oeuvre exclusive des israélites de Turquie résidant en Egypte, prend de jour en jour un développement sensible. Pendant le dernier exercice, Hachemia a donne des soins médicaux à 1.000 malades furent visites à raison d'une piastre (0 fr. 25) par visite, sans compter les malades seignés à son compete dans divers hôpitaux du Caire et d'Alexandrie...<br> L'année dernière, le baron Edmond de Rothschild, lors de son dernier séjour au Cairo, fit a cette société un don de 3.000 fr. En 2901 Mme la baronne de Rothschild lue fil un don pareil. <br>Le comité directeur de la Hachemia est composé de personnalités marquantes de Caire. M. Vita Palacci, le distingué chef de l'importante maison du commerce Palacci fils, Haim et Cie, qui est bien connue en Egypte et au Soudain, en est le president actif et dévoué. Parmi ses collaborateurs, citons de Dr. Beneroya, le directeur du journal \"La Vara\"; M. Talvi, ingénieur au ministère des Travaux publies, etc.; Dr. Amster, médecin a l'administration des services sanitaire; et Dr. Isaac J. Levy d'Alexandrie, médecin de la communauté de l'hôpital Menascé, de la ligue contra la tuberculose et de la Municipalite de cette ville. Ces deux derniers étant membres honoraires théoriquement, actifs, pratiquement.\"<br><br>In 1901, a Jewish mutual aid society was founded in Cairo called the \"Hachemia.\" This institution, which is a charitable organization for Turkish [Ottoman] Jews residing in Egypt, is making positive advances. Since the last fiscal year, Hachemia has provided medical care to a thousand visiting patients at the rate of one piaster (0.25 French francs) per visit, not including patients cared for and covered by Hachemia in several hospitals in Cairo and Alexandria...<br>Last year, Baron Edmond de Rothschild, during his last visit to Cairo, donated 3,000 francs. In 1901, Baroness de Rothschild made a gift in the same amount.<br>The committee leadership of Hachemia is composed of prominent people of Cairo. Mr. Vita Palacci, the distinguished head of the major commercial house Palacci Sons, Haim and Co., well known in Egypt and in Sudan, is the current and committed president of Hachemia. Among the other members of the leadership are: Dr. Beneroya, the editor of the newspaper \"La Vara\"; Mr. Talvi, an engineer at the Ministry of Public Works, etc.; Dr. Amster, doctor administering health services; and Dr. Isaac J. Levy of Alexandria, doctor at the Jewish Community Menascé Hospital, of Anti-Tuberculosis League, and the Alexandria Municipality. The latter two are honorary members theoretically, actively, and practically. During 1916–1917, \"Palacci Fils, Haym & Co.\" was one of numerous donors in Egypt to the \"Yeshibat Erez Israel (Rabbinical Institution) for the Refugee Rabbis from the Holy Land, established by the Alexandrian Rabbinate.\" From 1 Eyar 5676 through Sivan 5677 (4 April 1916 through to 29 June 1917), this group collected 120,427.5 PT (piasters), routed to its treasurer, E. Anzurat and published its third financial report. Donors were from Alexandria, Cairo, \"suburbs,\" England, Australia, Canada, S. Africa, India, France, and the USA. The local collector in Cairo was Rabbi Haim Mendelof. The Palacci donated 500 PT, as did Maurice Calamari, I.M. Cattaui & Fils, Le Fils de M. Cicurel, Jaques & Elie Green.\n\nWhen Vita died in 1917, his oldest son Albert Vita Palacci succeeded as manager. The store had offices overseas in Paris (1922) to purchase draperies and hardware, while its Cairo offices exported household essentials and perfumes. By the mid-1920s, Palacci had branches on Fuad Street and in Heliopolis.\n\nIn 1925, the Palacci partook in a \"Gran Corso Carnivalesque\" in Cairo, organized b the International Union of Commercial Establishment Employees of Cairo, along with 24 other grand department stores, including: Cicurel, Bon Marché, Mawardi, Salamander, and Paul Favre. Other department stores of that time included: Chemla Fréres (see Jacqueline Kahanoff), Orosdi-Back, Sednaoui (see Elisa Sednaoui), Hannaux, Chalons, Ades (see Ades Synagogue and Yaakov Ades), Gattegno (see Caleb Gattegno and Joseph Gattegno), Madkur, Ahmad, Yusuf Gamal, Benzion (see owner Moïse Lévy de Benzion and Levi de Benzion), Morum's, Stein's, Raff's, Robert Hughes, Mayer, Tiring. The history \"Maadi: 1904-1962\" lists the following Jewish families around the Adly synagogu including: Rasson, Romano, Gold, Kabili, Rofe, Mizrahi, Chalem, Calderon, Agami, setton, Simhon, Sofeir. It also lists those Jewish families close by, including: Harris, Risolevi, Hettena, Sullam, Ades, Watoury, Palacci, Curiel, Basri, Farhi, Hazan, and Hazan. The history \"Egypt: The Lost Homeland\" lists the following Jewish families in Cairo who \"were considered Austrian and enjoyed the protection of the Austrian embassy, event though they were not Austrian citizens\": Adda, Benarojo, Belilios, Cattaui, Forte, Goldstein, Heffez, Ismalun, Mondolfo, Pallaci, Picciotto, Rossano, and Romano.\n\nIn 1933, the family of Mahmoud Abel Bak El Bitar had a lawsuit against \"Pallaci, Haym & Co.\" By 1935, the Palacci department store had experienced financial difficulties and then burned down; the family did not rebuild. Nevertheless, the family company or derivatives continued. In 1947, an \"H.M. Palacci & Co.\" appears as an agent of the G. R. Marshall & Co. exporting company of Richmond, Canada.\n\nThe 1948 Cairo bombings, which included the Ades and Gattegno stores, did not deter the family; both Albert Vita Palacci and Dr. Victor Palacci appear in a 1955 \"Who's Who\" for Egypt, while Henry Menahem Palacci in Cairo appears in the mid-1950s (along with an Albert Palacci in Belgium). By the time Nasser had nationalized all Jewish-owned assets in Egypt (1958), most Palacci had left Cairo in diaspora–yet \"Palacci Fils, Hayem et Cie.\" remained listed as a business in Cairo as late as 1959.\n\nThe Pallache family settled around the main home of Vita Palacci, a villa (\"Palacci-Naggar-Ades Building\") at No. 23 Ahmed Basha Street (Ahmad Pasha Street) in Garden City, Cairo. Two of Vita Palacci's grandchildren, siblings Eddy and Colette, have written memoirs of their childhoods in Cairo (and Paris), which document Sephardic Jewish life in Cairo in the 1930s, including traditions, use of Ladino, and food recipes.\n\nPallache also settled in Alexandria. \"Mordahai Palacci-Miram was likewise a Sephardi but from Constantinople, when he married Rosa Alterman, an Ashkenazi of German origin. Several of their children were born in Constantinople... but to escape an outbreak of plague came to Alexandria...\" A \"Ventura Palacci-Miram\" is also mentioned.\n\nAfter World War I, participation of the \"Force Publique\" in the East African campaign resulted in a League of Nations mandate over the previously German colony of Ruanda-Urundi to Belgium as Belgian Congo (read more at \"Belgian Congo\").\n\nIn the mid-1940s, Henri Palacci, son of Menahem, son of Aaron (Henri) Palacci, founded \"La Coupole\" store in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo (then Leopoldville, Belgian Congo), as documented in\n\n\"Les commerçants juifs ont contribué à l'émancipation des \"indigènes,\" en les initiant aux produits manufacturés. Ainsi, les boutiques \"Au Chic\" du Groupe Hasson et \"La Coupole\" d’Henri Palacci, ouverts, à Léopoldville, vers 1946, vendent à tous et refusent toute forme de discrimination raciale. Leurs rapports quotidiens avec les colonisés distinguaient les Juifs des autres Blancs. Et lors des évènements tragiques de 1960, aucun Juif ne fut molesté par la foule en colère.\"<br><br>\nJewish merchants contributed to the empowerment of \"indigenous\" people by introducing them to manufactured goods. The shops \"Au Chic\" (Hasson Group) and \"La Coupole\" (Henry Palacci), opened in Leopoldville, around 1946, selling to all and refusing any form of racial discrimination. Daily contact with colonized Jews differed from other Whites. And during the tragic events of 1960, no Jew was molested by mobs. (See \"Congo Crisis\" for more on the emergence of the DR Congo.)\n\nThe Pallache had established themselves in Jamaica by the 19th Century in the sugar trade. In 1825, the London Gazette posted notice of a partnership that included Mordecai Palache and Alexander Palache \"of Kingston, in the Island of Jamaica.\" A \"Charles, son of Mordechai Palache\" is recorded in 1847. Numerous people named Palache continued to appear. Most prominent among them was the Honorable John Thomson Palache (\"a coloured solicitor\").\n\nA \"Vita Palacci\" appears in Argentina by 1855.\n\nContinued expulsions and diaspora have dispersed the Pallache family to many countries in the Americas, Europe, and farther afield.\n\nBy the 20th Century, the Pallache had established and the United States. The family of noted American mineralogist Charles Palache (1869–1954) came to California from Jamaica. His descendants include Judith Palache Gregory (1932–2017), AKA \"an American writer, counselor, educator, and permaculturalist\n\nNumerous Palacci came to the States in diaspora from Turkey and Egypt, including Colette (Palacci) Rossant.\n\nSamuel Pallache may have helped found the first synagogue in Amsterdam. As early as his 1769 \"Memorias do Estabelecimento e Progresso dos Judeos Portuguezes e Espanhoes nesta Famosa Cidade de Amsterdam\", David Franco Mendes records a first minyan in Amsterdam with sixteen worshippers, including Samuel and Joseph Pallache. Other sources go further to claim that this first \"minyan\" occurred in Palache's home, as they were dignitaries (envoys from Morocco) and occurred around 1590 or Yom Kippur 1596. However, in their book \"A Man of Three Worlds\"' on Samuel Pallache, Professors García-Arenal and Gerard A. Wiegers point out that the Pallache brothers arrived in Amsterdam in the first decade of the following century.\n\nAround 1840, the Pallache home in Smyrna became today's Beth Hillel Synagogue (Turkish \"Bet-Ilel Sinagogu\") and seat of a yeshiva or beit madras. The synagogue lies in the Kemeraltı marketplace district in Izmir and is named after Haim or Abraham Palacci. Professor Stanford J. Shaw stated it was Haim who founded the \"Beth Hillel Palacci\". or his son Abraham. According to Jewish Izmir Heritage, \"In the 19th century, Rabbi Avraham Palache founded in his home a synagogue named Beit Hillel, after the philanthropist from Bucharest who supported the publication of Rabbi Palache's books. However, the name 'Avraham Palache Synagogue' was also used by the community.\" This synagogue forms a cluster of eight extant (from a recorded peak of 34 in the 19th Century), all adjacent... [making] Izmir is the only city in the world in which an unusual cluster of synagogues bearing a typical medieval Spanish architectural style is preserved ...[and] creating an historical architectural complex unique in the world.\" The Zalman Shazar Center also refers to Beit Hillel synagogue as \"Avraham Palaggi's synagogue\" but then states that \"the synagogue was founded by Palaggi Family in 1840\" and that Rav Avraham Palaggi \"used\" it. \"The building had been used as a synagogue and a \"Beit Midrash\". The synagogue has not been used since 1960's.\" It concludes, \"The synagogue was founded by the Palaggi family and is therefore very important.\"\n\nThe Palaccis were one of many families that helped maintain the Sephardic Sha'ar Hashamayim Synagogue (Cairo) on Adly Street in downtown Cairo.\n\nJourney into Jewish Heritage states that Haim Palacci founded the \"Beit Hillel Yeshiva\" in Izmir in the middle of the 19th century. Current sources are unclear, but it is likely the same as the \"Beit Midrash\" mentioned above.\n\nA seminary was named in Haim Palachi's honor in Bnei Brak, Israel.\n\n\nAs the Pallache settled in new cities with new languages, spellings of the surname changed. Oftentimes, changes occurred via officialdom. In the 19th Century, for example, American officials at Ellis Island would shorten, simplify, or change altogether the spellings of foreigners upon arrival. In the 20th Century, Turkish officials forced all nationals to adopt surnames under the 1934 Surname Law.\n\nVariations on the Pallache name appear on both Spanish and Portuguese lists of Sephardic names. For instance, \"Palacci\" is listed as Spanish Sephardic, while \"Pallache\" is listed as Portuguese Sephardic.\n\nSamuel Pallache's name appeared in several forms–including variations that he himself used. A German \"Vierteljarhschrift\" mentions both \"Duarte de Palacios\" and \"Duarte Palache\" when referring to the same person, thus making direct equation between the names \"de Palacios\" and \"Palache.\"\n\nDocumented names include:\n\nThe approach that the outline below follows is: 1) use Moïse Rahmani's essay \"Les Patronymes: une histoire de nom ou histoire tout court\" as a base, 2) add findings from the penultimate chapter of García-Arenal and Wiegers's \"A Man of Three Worlds: Samuel Pallache, a Moroccan Jew in Catholic and Protestant Europe\" (1999, 2007), and 3) add further information – all with citations. The index developed for Abraham Galante's \"Jews of Turkey\" is another major source for the Izmir branch of the family.\n\nPallache of the 16th-17th Centuries, who originated from Morocco include:\n\nPallache (as \"Palache\") of the 17th-20th Centuries in the Netherlands include:\n\nPallache of the 17th-20th Centuries in Smyrna / Izmir, Turkey (then Ottoman Empire) include:\n\nOther Pallache who left Turkey (Izmir or Istanbul) for Egypt include:\n\nOther Pallache of the 17th-20th Centuries in other lands and who are (to date) unclearly connected to Dutch or Turkish/Egyptian branches include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4623321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4623321", "title": "Paul Gauselmann", "text": "Paul Gauselmann\n\nPaul Gauselmann (born 26 August 1934) is a German businessman, the founder and CEO of Gauselmann, a German company that produces slot machines, and runs gambling arcades.\n\nPaul Gauselmann was born on 26 August 1934 in Borghorst, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.\n\nIn 1993 Paul Gauselmann received the Federal Cross of Merit (\"Bundesverdienstkreuz\") (Knight's Cross), in 2003 he has been appointed to be awarded to the Officer's Cross. He is honorary citizen of Espelkamp and Lübbecke.\n\nGauselmann has had over 200 of his inventions patented. His company makes around 50,000 gaming machines a year.\n\nFor many years he has been chairman of the slot machine business association VDAI.\n\nAt his 65th birthday, Gauselmann initiated the Gauselmann Foundation, which supports social projects in his hometown Espelkamp.\n\nHe supports many organizations, including:\n\nGauselmann is married to Karin Gauselmann. Karin is a member of the supervisory board of Gauselmann AG.\n\nThey have four sons:\n\nHe has four older brothers: : Heinz, Josef, Eugen and Willi.\n\n"}
{"id": "89336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89336", "title": "Percy Barnevik", "text": "Percy Barnevik\n\nPercy Nils Barnevik HonFREng (born 13 February 1941) is a Swedish business executive, best known as CEO and later Chairman of Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) 1988–2002, and for being the centre of a giant pension dispute that shook Sweden in 2003. He is the co-founder of the non-profit organization Hand in Hand.\n\nBorn in Simrishamn in southern Sweden, the youngest of three children, he grew up in Uddevalla, north of Gothenburg, where his parents operated a small printing company. Barnevik was educated at the University of Gothenburg's School of Business, Economics and Law and at Stanford Graduate School of Business. He has received seven honorary doctorates in Sweden, Finland and the U.S., including from Linköping University (1989) and the University of Gothenburg (1991). In 1993, Barnevik received the IEEE Engineering Leadership Recognition Award.\n\nBarnevik started his professional career in the Swedish company Datema, but soon moved to Sandvik. In Sandviken, where between the years 1969 and 1970 he hired over 150 people, his employees said \"he has some kind of magic in him—you just can't refuse his offer.\" He developed unique relationships with many of his colleagues which helped him to improve the communication. In 1975, he was promoted to CEO of Sandvik's American operations, Sandvik Steel. Within the next four years he tripled the revenues, grossing $250 million, and turned the company profitable. During his work in the United States, Sandvik started competing against the industry leaders, such as General Electric and U.S. Steel.\n\nIn 1979 he joined ASEA, a leading Swedish heavy industrial company based in Västerås. In 1987 he decided to merge with its Swiss competitor – Brown, Boveri & Cie. It was the largest merger at that time. He held the position of CEO of ASEA 1980–87, was CEO of ABB from 1988 to 1996. He was Chairman of Sandvik 1983–2002, Chairman of Skanska 1992–1997, Chairman of Investor AB 1997–2002, Chairman of AstraZeneca 1999–2004, Chairman of ABB 1996–2002, Member of the Board of DuPont, USA 1991–1998 and Member of the Board of General Motors, USA 1996-2009. He was also a regular Bilderberg Group attendee 1992–2001 and belonged to the group's Steering Committee.\n\nDuring his eight years as CEO of ASEA followed by the nine years as CEO of ABB, the company achieved an increase of stock value of 87 times or 30% average per year over the 17 years. Net profit increased 60 times and sales 30 times. Based upon these extraordinary results Barnevik received a one-off payment of 148 million Swiss francs when he retired as CEO in 1996. 2002, six years later under a second succeeding CEO, ABB stock market value plummeted from 54.50 francs in 2000 to just under 15 francs. When ABB's board made the pension payment public, a huge scandal ensued and Barnevik was forced to resign as chairman of Investor, the Swedish investment company controlled by the powerful Wallenberg family, and to hand back a large chunk of his pension to ABB.\n\nIn 2003, Barnevik co-founded charity with Dr Kalpana Sankar in Tamil Nadu, India. The charity, which fights poverty through job and business creation, has since grown to include programs in 10 countries: Kenya, Rwanda, South Africa, Swaziland, Lesotho, Zimbabwe, India, Afghanistan and, more recently, Cambodia and Myanmar. Hand in Hand’s mission is to work for economic and social empowerment of the poorest and most marginalized people by supporting the development of businesses and jobs. Since 2003, the Hand in Hand network has helped start and sustain 1.3 million businesses and has generated 1.9 million jobs.\n\nBarnevik lives in London. In an interview he once stated that he took a test which stated he was unsuitable for a managerial position.\n\n"}
{"id": "6077938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6077938", "title": "Providencia Paredes", "text": "Providencia Paredes\n\nProvidencia F. Paredes (1924 – March 18, 2015) was the personal assistant to the First Lady of the United States Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.\n\nA native of San Pedro de Macoris, Dominican Republic, Parades arrived in the United States in 1948 with Francisco Thomen, Ambassador to the United States from the Dominican Republic. At the conclusion of the Ambassador’s term in Washington, D.C., she returned to the Dominican Republic and was reunited with her first child, Hector, who was born in 1945. Several years later, \"Provi\" (as she is known to friends) returned to the United States, where she remarried Gustavo G. Paredes, a former member of the Colombian navy and merchant marines. and gave birth to her second child, Gustavo, in 1954.\n\nIn 1957, Senator John F. Kennedy’s personal secretary, Evelyn Lincoln, introduced Paredes to Senator Kennedy. After meeting Mrs. Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy, Provi began working for the Kennedys in their Georgetown home. Upon Senator John F. Kennedy’s election as President, Paredes became a U.S. citizen and accompanied the Kennedys to the White House and was employed as Mrs. Kennedy’s private attendant. Her role was noteworthy in that she was the only staff member of Hispanic descent in the Kennedy administration's inner circle. Chief among her duties was the care and oversight of the First Lady’s extensive wardrobe and personal accessories.\n\nDuring the Kennedy White House years, Paredes traveled widely with both the President and Mrs. Kennedy. She accompanied President Kennedy on trips and official state visits to Puerto Rico, Venezuela, Colombia, France, Mexico, and England, and was a companion to the First Lady on trips to Mexico, India, Pakistan, Italy, Greece, Cambodia, Thailand, Turkey and Switzerland. While many trips were official business, others were personal.\n\nAfter President Kennedy’s assassination, Paredes worked for Robert F. Kennedy until his untimely death, and for Senator Edward M. Kennedy briefly. In 1969 she assumed a position in the United States Postal Service Library Division from which she retired in 1992 after thirty one years of public service. After her death in May 1994, Mrs. Onassis remembered Ms. Paredes in her final will, leaving her a total of US$50,000 in gratitude for her assistance and friendship. Ms. Paredes and her son, Gustavo, who was a good friend of Ms. Onassis's son, John F. Kennedy, Jr. attended her burial at Arlington National Cemetery on May 24, 1994.\n\nParedes and her family maintained a close relationship with many members of the Kennedy family.\n\nParedes died on March 18, 2015 at the age of 90.\n\n"}
{"id": "12053806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12053806", "title": "Rosario Board of Trade", "text": "Rosario Board of Trade\n\nThe Rosario Board of Trade (, \"BCR\") is a non-profit making association based in Rosario, in the Province of Santa Fe, Argentina. Founded on August 18, 1884, it serves as a forum for the conduct of trade negotiations in several markets including grain, oilseed, agricultural products and their by-products, as well as securities and other assets.\n\nThe Physical Grain Market (\") of the BCR is the most important in Argentina in terms of its volume of operations, and provides reference prices for the national and international markets. Most of the country's production of cereals and oilseeds is traded within it, especially soybean. The region around Rosario contains more than 80% of the vegetable oil industry of Argentina and its ports, (Rosario and San Lorenzo-Puerto San Martín), handle more than 90% of the Argentine export of soybean and its derivatives.\nThe Board of Trade additionally operates a complex of laboratories which analyze and provide quality certifications for samples of agricultural products, soil and water.\n\nThe Rosario Futures Exchange (ROFEX, \") has traditionally been a futures exchange for commodities and, in more recent times, for financial products such as exchange rate and interest rate options. Its negotiated volume (especially in forward contracts over dollars) makes ROFEX the largest futures market in the country.\n\nThe Rosario Stock Exchange (', abbreviated MerVaRos) is known as ', after the merger with the Mendoza Stock Exchange.\n\nThe Rosario Livestock Market (\"\", abbreviated Rosgan) is an important Argentine livestock auction market, notably for cattle.\n\nOperating in a landmark Beaux-Arts headquarters designed by Raúl Rivero in 1926, the exchange had new offices built during the 1990s. Designed by architect Mario Roberto Álvarez, the new building was completed in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "43480787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43480787", "title": "Rosslyn Analytics", "text": "Rosslyn Analytics\n\nRosslyn Data Technologies (aka Rosslyn Analytics) (LSE: RDT) is a software company providing data extraction, data cleansing and data enrichment technologies to clients through its cloud-based data platform. Its client base includes large enterprises, such as Coca-Cola Enterprises, Xerox Business Services, Aberdeen Asset Management, and The Weir Group.\n\nThe company is listed on AIM, a sub-market of the London Stock Exchange, and is headquartered in London with offices in New York City and Chicago, Illinois.\n\nRosslyn Analytics was founded in 2007 by Charles Clark and Hugh Cox. The company was named after Rosslyn Chapel in Midlothian, Scotland, which is famous for its mysterious carvings, believed to contain a message or even music that has never been verifiably decoded. In 2009, the company launched its first cloud-based business intelligence product - a self-service spend analytics app for its RAPid data platform. The offering won awards for innovation and excellence, including the Technology Excellence Award for “Best New Product”, and the ICT Excellence Award for “Best Innovative Service of the Year”.\n\nIn April 2011, as a public service to help the UK Government reduce the deficit by getting better control of its purchasing, Rosslyn Analytics offered to provide free spend analytics to the government in just 30 days. The government refused the offer.\n\nIn January 2012, Rosslyn Analytics entered the United States establishing offices in New York City and Denver, Colorado.\n\nRosslyn Analytics was the first technology company to bring QlikView into the cloud in 2012.\n\nIn 2013, Rosslyn Analytics was featured in Gartner’s Magic Quadrant for Strategic Sourcing Application Suites.\n\nIn February 2014, the company filed its first patent with the UK Intellectual Property Office on machine-learning. In April, Rosslyn Analytics went public on AIM under the name of Rosslyn Data Technologies Group plc.In May, Rosslyn Analytics joined the UK government’s G-Cloud 5 Framework for Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) providers.\n\nIn May 2015, Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) partnered with Rosslyn Analytics to offer cloud-based big data services to clients.\n\nIn January 2011, JMP Securities recognized Rosslyn Analytics as one of its “Hot 100” software companies to watch. \n\nIn March 2013, Bessemer named Rosslyn Analytics as one of the top Business Intelligence / Analytics cloud companies.\n\nIn December 2015, Rosslyn Analytics was named a strong performer in the Forrester Research report, “The Forrester Wave™: Cloud Business Intelligence Platforms, Q4 2015.”\n\nIn May 2016, Rosslyn Analytics recognized as finalist for the 2016 Microsoft Data Platform Partner of the Year award \n\nIn March 2017, Rosslyn Data Technologies was shortlisted for analytics product of the year in the UK Cloud Awards. \n\nThe company’s flagship product is its cloud-based data platform called RAPid. RAPid provides self-service data integration, cleansing, enrichment, analysis and visualization capabilities via a single platform. Business users access the benefits of the platform via automated and manual self-service tools. The RAPid platform comes with a number of pre-built analytical apps sold as modular solutions such as spend analytics, people analytics, forensics analytics, expense analytics and supplier performance management.\n\nRosslyn Analytics was founded by Charles Clark and Hugh Cox, two former British Army officers. Charles has been recognized for his leadership by Supply & Demand Chain Executive, having been identified as a “Pro to Know” from 2010 to 2015. Hugh Cox is the company’s Chief Data Officer.\n"}
{"id": "22689172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22689172", "title": "Rural management", "text": "Rural management\n\nRural management is the study of planning, organising, directing, and controlling of rural area, co-operatives, agribusiness and allied fields. It merges the knowledge of management studies and applying it in the rural context. Most of the courses are designed in such a way that the concepts taught in the class is applied in the real life through training in the rural areas through case-studies and interaction with the rural people\n\nThere are many academic institutions within India offering courses on Rural Management. Notable among them are Institute of Rural Management, Anand (www.irma.ac.in), KIIT School of Rural Management (KSRM), Bhubaneswar (ksrm.ac.in) and Xavier University, Bhubaneswar (ximb.ac.in). They offer either two years' Post Graduate Diploma in Rural Management or Two Years' Masters in Business Administration (MBA-Rural Management).\n\nRural Management graduates work in the areas like sustainable rural livelihoods, agri-business management, cooperatives, climate change, micro-finance, corporate social responsibility, natural resources management, rural marketing, commodity trading and marketing and social entrepreneurship.\n\nApart from the classroom based courses, IRMA and KSRM provide opportunities to their rural management students to undergo three field segments (internships) of 10–11 weeks duration. In other words, the curriculum is designed to make it contextual to develop rural areas through experiential learning, live projects.\n\n\nIndia has close to 4,000 management schools that produce over 300,000 graduates every year. But the country has few niche management schools focusing on the rural sector. Rural management schools produce less than 1,000 rural managers. The small number is surprising considering the importance of the rural sector, or Bharat, in India's economy.\n\nAccording to a study by global consulting firm Accenture, the rural economy accounts for 50 per cent of the country's gross domestic product. It also makes up 70 per cent of the country's population and 50 per cent of the work force. About 75 percent of new factories built in the past decade have come up in rural India, which accounts for 75 per cent of all new manufacturing jobs. Since 2000, per capita GDP has grown at 6.2 per cent a year in rural India compared with 4.2 per cent in urban areas. And in terms of spending, Bharat has trumped India by a mile. Between 2009 and 2012, Indians in the countryside spent $69 billion compared with $55 billion in big towns and cities.\n\nHarish Manwani, chairman of Hindustan Unilever Ltd, says rural India is a powerhouse with the potential to add $1.8 trillion, or the equivalent of the current GDP, to the country's economy. But this potential can be realised only if Bharat and India merge.\n\nMainstream management schools have not ventured into rural management for many reasons. The rural management courses are very niche and they call for students with a different set of attitudes. The teaching approach is also different. Most mainstream schools may not be prepared to handle such subjects,\" says Professor Abraham Koshy, professor of marketing at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. Experts say there is room for more rural management schools. For a country of India's size and the number of problems we face, there is a need for lot more such institutions. There is a need to create a lot of rural managers who are potential agents of change.\n\nRural Management is one such specialisation which gives you the chance to contribute towards uplifting and betterment of those sections of the society, where the light of development is yet to reach. The purpose of the rural managers is to promote sustainable, eco-friendly and equitable socioeconomic development of rural area through professional management of their institutions and organisations. Previously, only a few people opted for this challenging course but nowadays, a lot of students are opting for this course of rural management as they want to learn and showcase their skills to ensure that the performance in the rural sector is enhanced..\n\nThe MBA (Rural Management) programme is unique in the sense that in addition to traditional management courses such as Project Management, Accounting, Quantitative Techniques, Managerial Analysis and Communication, Finance, Marketing Management, many specialised courses focusing on management of rural sector are offered.\n\nAgribusiness Management, Rural Production and Livelihoods, Rural Finance and Commercial Banking, Natural Resources Management and Climate Change, Rural Marketing, CSR Management, Micro Finance, ICTs for Development, Innovation in Rural Development and Enterprises, Policy and Programme Interventions in Rural Development are some of the courses especially focusing on the rural sector.\n\nAnyone who completes MBA (Rural Management) has the advantage of having career opportunities in any general management area. In addition to that, Rural Management graduates alone are preferred in specific areas mentioned above.\n\n"}
{"id": "43978012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43978012", "title": "Semi Koroilavesau", "text": "Semi Koroilavesau\n\nSemi Tuleca Koroilavesau (born 1958) is a Fijian politician and Member of the Parliament of Fiji. He is a member of the FijiFirst party.\n\nKoroilavesau grew up in Nalotu in Kadavu Province. He was educated at Yawe District primary school, Richmond High School, and Lelean Memorial School. After sixth form, he joined the Fijian Navy as an officer cadet. In his military career he reached the rank of Commander. In 1988 he started a tourism company, Captain Cook Cruises, and in 2003 retired from the Navy to manage it.\n\nKoroilavesau was elected in the 2014 election, in which he won 1,611 votes.\n"}
{"id": "41446741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41446741", "title": "Sven Trygve Falck", "text": "Sven Trygve Falck\n\nSven Trygve Falck (born 9 March 1943) is a Norwegian engineer, businessperson and politician for the Conservative Party.\n\nHe was born in Tønsberg as a son of bookseller Trygve Falck (1905-1974) and housewife Inger Erikson (1909-1995). He finished his secondary education in 1962 and took the siv.ing. degree in chemical engineering at the Norwegian Institute of Technology in 1967. While studying he edited \"Under Dusken\" in 1964.\n\nHis first engineering job was at Dow Chemical Co. in Texas from 1967 to 1970. After a year at Dow Chemical Co. in Germany, he was hired in Norsk Hydro in 1971. He was an engineer for Norsk Hydro at Rafnes from 1975, then chief engineer for Norsk Hydro in Porsgrunn from 1976 to 1981.\n\nHe was a member of Porsgrunn city council from 1977 to 1979, then the executive committee of Telemark county council while also serving as deputy chair of the county school board. He was also elected to the Parliament of Norway from Telemark in 1981, and served through one term as a member of the Standing Committee on Energy and Industry.\n\nAfter leaving Parliament he was a consultant and business director. He was a board member of Norsk Jern Holding from 1990 to 1993, corporate council member of Norsk Jernverk from 1987 to 1989 and supervisory council member of Manufacturers Hanover Norge from 1986 to 1990 and Den Norske Industribank from 1990 to 1993 (deputy from 1986 to 1990).\n"}
{"id": "48148868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48148868", "title": "Tan Chin Tuan", "text": "Tan Chin Tuan\n\n(Dr) Tan Chin Tuan (; 21 November 1908 – 13 November 2005) was a Peranakan banker and philanthropist who is often credited with helping to build up Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation (OCBC).\n\nBorn in 1908, he was the son of prominent Hokkien businessman, Tan Cheng Siong, a General Manager of Oversea-Chinese Bank Ltd. Tan Chin Tuan grew up under the harsh conditions of the Great Depression (1930), having lost his father during his schooling years. Educated at Anglo-Chinese School, he was compelled to leave school at the age of seventeen to begin work at the Chinese Commercial Bank (which merged with Ho Hong Bank that same year to form OCBC).\n\nTan served as the managing director of OCBC from 1942 to 1972 and as chairman from 1966 to 1983. Upon his retirement, he was made honorary life president of the bank, the only person ever thus honoured.\n\nTan established his reputation as a sharp corporate banker with a keen eye for spotting opportunities to create value for the bank and its shareholders. His ideas and thinking were instrumental in the building of OCBC bank.\n\nBetween the mid-1950s to the mid-1970s, he was chairman of ten blue-chip companies. Upon his retirement of these companies, Tan was made their Honorary Life President.\n\nTan Chin Tuan was a strong advocate of lifelong learning. In 1984, he donated £350,000 to the Needham Research Institute (NRI) in Cambridge, United Kingdom and the library block at NRI is named after him. NRI is currently one of the top three centres for learning Chinese science and technology in the world. In 1997, he committed S$2.5 million towards the Nanyang Technological University's exchange programme in engineering. Named the Tan Chin Tuan Exchange Fellowship, it funds research collaborations between NTU and overseas institutes.\n\nTan established the Tan Chin Tuan Foundation (TCTF) on 10 April 1976 to share with society the rewards of his highly illustrious career. He rendered assistance to the deserving and provided services that helped uplift the less fortunate. Today, the contributions of TCTF reflect the founder’s philosophy of how money should be channelled for social good. The foundation strives to support causes and projects that are viable, sustainable and well-managed with definable social outcomes.\n\nToday, TCTF continues his commitment towards advancing educational causes through professorships, scholarships and bursaries, and establishing strategic programmes in institutions of higher learning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31128235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31128235", "title": "Teresa de Dios Unanue", "text": "Teresa de Dios Unanue\n\nDr. Teresa de Dios Unanue is an educator, civic leader, the author of several essays published in Puerto Rico and the United States, the co-author of the book Educación Personalizada (Personalized Education), and the co-founder and Executive President of Atlantic University College, a university institution specializing in digital arts in Puerto Rico and Caribbean.\n\nDr. Teresa de Dios Unanue was born in Camagüey, Cuba. She was later exiled and settled in Puerto Rico, where she graduated with distinction from the University of Puerto Rico in the fields of literature, administration and educational supervision. She also has a doctoral degree in Human Behavior. Years later, after graduating from the university, she began to work as Director of Innovation and Curriculum at the American Military Academy. From there, she proceeded to found the company which she now directs. She is the sister of the late journalist Manuel de Dios Unanue whose murder in 1992 made international headlines.\n\nDr. Teresa de Dios Unanue has dedicated her life to the development of Puerto Rican children and youths. In 1983, Dr. de Dios began her work developing Atlantic University College, the only university institution in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico. She is a co-founder of the College, and currently serves as its President. This university institution has been credited with strengthening the city's economy. Similarly, Atlantic University College is considered to be a pioneer in digital arts on the island. Another great success of Dr. de Dios was her establishment of the historic first bachelor's degree in graphic arts, and the incorporation into the College's curriculum, in 2001, of the first master's degree in graphic arts in Puerto Rico and the Caribbean which specializes in digital graphic design. Also, in 2014, the Master of Science in Interactive Technologies Programming\n\nDr. de Dios's efforts, and her educational and administrative work, have transcended boundaries. Under her presidency, and together with the Executive Vice-President Heri Martínez de Dios, she has received recognition such as the award and rank of Honorary Institution with Distinction, awarded by the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools (ACICS), and the prestigious Emmy Award in 2007 in the category of Technical Achievement, an Emmy ® Award in 2012 and nominated for three Emmy ® awards in 2011. It is worth noting that Atlantic University College, under the leadership of Dr. de Dios, is the only institution in Puerto Rico and the Caribbean which has received this award.\n\nIn addition to her contributions as an educator, Dr. de Dios is a civic leader, essayist, and the co-author of the book Educación Personalizada (Personalized Education). \n\nDr. de Dios currently dedicates a large proportion of her time to work carried out in order to benefit culture and young people. She is a member of the board of directors of the Centre of Fine Arts in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico, and a volunteer on the city's Community Evaluation Committee. From Atlantic University College, she endorses and assists causes and events which support educational, artistic and cultural development in Puerto Rico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54892538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54892538", "title": "Testex", "text": "Testex\n\nTestex, stylized as TESTEX, is a globally operating, independent Swiss testing and certification organisation that focuses on textile testing. The Testex corporate group is headquartered in Zurich and consists of the Testex AG, ÖTI GmbH (Austria), PT Testex (Indonesia), Swiss Textile-Testing Ltd. Hong Kong, and Testex Testing Co. Ltd. Beijing. Testex AG emerged from the “Seidentrocknungsanstalt Zurich” founded in 1846, and operates more than 20 branches worldwide. Testex is the official representative of the Oeko-Tex Association in Australia, Canada, the P.R. China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Switzerland, South Korea and Taiwan.\n\nThe analytical laboratory at Testex is ISO 17025 certified and conducts a variety of analytical tests designed to detect pollutants, residues, and trace elements in textiles. Testing and auditing are also conducted in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Oeko-Tex Association. These include Standard 100 by Oeko-Tex, Step, Made in green, Eco passport, Allergy Standards and the Leather standard. The product portfolio is continually adapted according to the current market needs.\n\nTestex conducts physical and chemical tests on fibers, yarns/ strings, woven fabrics, knitted fabrics, nonwoven fabrics, and finished products. The services also include physiological tests on textile fabrics and ready-made textiles, flooring tests and the testing of personal protective equipment (PPE) in accordance with ISO 17065, which involves various flaming tests.\n\nAs early as 1237, raw silk was documented to be brought to Zurich from Como via Walenstadt. At that time, shipments were transported in primitive vehicles on poorly paved roads, narrow bridle paths, and dangerously labile, unstable footbridges. Back then, transporting silk was much more laborious and hazardous than it is today. To reach Chur and adjacently Walenstadt, traders were forced to pass the Septimer Pass and the old imperial road. From there, the goods were transported to Zurich by boat. Upon arrival, the silk was unloaded near the Helmhaus Bridge and sold in a store near the Fraumünster.\n\nIn order to determine the curb weight of silk, it must be completely dry. However, this process is heavily influenced by the atmospheric humidity, since the material absorbs moisture from the air and thereby increases in weight This property of raw silk makes it difficult to accurately determine its weight, which created the need for independent “weighing institutes”. These institutes were established to dry all traders’ silk according to a standardized method and thereby ensure a fair silk trade. Per definition, a silk conditioning institute is “a neutral authority whose test results are recognized as binding by both contractual parties.\"\n\nThe first silk conditioning institute opened on April 8, 1724 in Turin. It would remain the only institution of its kind until Jean-Louis Rast-Maupas opened a similar institution with improved procedures in Lyon in 1779. During the French Revolution, Rast-Maupas's “Condition” was closed for nearly two years. During this time, three similar institutes opened in Lyon, setting off a fierce competition. In 1805, Napoleon granted the Lyon Chamber of Commerce the exclusive right to dry silk, resulting in the establishment of a state institution in 1814. Following the establishment of institutions in Turin, Lyon, and Milan, others quickly followed in Elberfeld, Krefeld, Saint-Étienne, Vienna, Zurich, and, finally, in New York, Yokohama, Kobe, Shanghai, and Guangzhou.\n\nThe silk industry experienced a considerable boom around 1846. It became obvious that it would be disadvantageous to remain dependent on foreign silk conditioning institutions, a “provisional committee” decided to establish a silk drying institute in Zurich. On September 22nd, 1846, the constitutive assembly approved the statutes. Nearly 50 silk experts gathered in the “Zunfthaus zur Zimmerläuten” to elect a board of directors for the newly founded institute. Colonel Heinrich von Muralt-Stockar was elected Chairman of the Board, and Lord Schwarzenbach-Imhof was appointed as director. Three days later the board met for the first time, and operations began on June 1st, 1847. At that time, they did not yet have any practical experience in silk drying.\n\nThree individuals were primarily responsible for the founding of the Silk Drying Institute in Zurich. They became aware of silk drying while travelling abroad and wanted to establish the practice in Switzerland in order to make the local silk trade less dependent on foreign entities. All three were politically active and well-known throughout the city.\n\nColonel Heinrich von Muralt-Stockar served as Chairman of the Board for 14 consecutive years, he was the son of Hans Conrad von Muralt, the former mayor of Zurich. At the age of 27, he took over his father’s silk business “Heinrich de Daniel Muralt” and served as president of Zurich’s “Baukollegium”, and the “Dampfschifffahrtsgesellschaft”.\n\nCavalry Captain Conrad Bürkli, a senior commander of the fire brigade, was a close friend of von Muralt's. He had been the proprietor of the Johann Georg Bürkli silk trading company since 1811, as well as a member of the city council.\n\nJohann Heinrich (Henry) Bodmer-Pestalozzi was a member of the Bodmer zur Arch family and owner of the family’s eponymous silk production company. The company was among the first in Switzerland to produce silk gauze.\n\nBetween 1846 and 1863, the Silk Drying Institute resided in the “Äusseren Tiefenhof”, where the headquarters of the Zurich Cantonal Bank are located at present. The facility, located in the center of Zurich, covered roughly 5,525 square feet. On October 1st, 1849, a new branch was opened in Basel, which would later detach itself organizationally and financially from its parent company in 1872. Due to the company’s rapid growth and an acute need for additional space, a new facility was acquired in 1861: the “weissen Bären,” located on the corner of Bärengasse and Talstrasse. The company officially moved to the new facility in 1863, after two years of renovations and furnishing. The facility remained in use until 1932, when it was replaced by the company’s present-day headquarters in Zurich’s Enge district, which officially opened on April 14th, 1932. Although an expansion of the company’s operational space had been in discussion since as early as 1889, the implementation was delayed, due to World War I.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, free trade policies and technological advances such as the telephone and the telegraph, introduced a period of prosperity for the silk trade. The Gotthard railway connection, completed in 1882, and the completion of the Suez Canal in 1869 made international trade significantly easier. On account of its constant improvements to the silk drying procedure and improved logistics and storage, Zurich became the center of the international silk trade.\n\nZurich retained this status during World War I despite the difficult conditions, which caused interruptions and declines in sales. Many banks and other businesses closed following the outbreak of war. This resulted in a shortage of liquid funds, which soon impacted the silk trade. The home countries of the institutions in Milan, Turin, Lyon, Krefeld, and later Tokyo and New York, had entered the war. This favored the silk industry in Zurich tremendously, hence it achieved record sales between 1915 and 1917.\n\nWhile the transition from a peacetime economy to a wartime economy posed fewer issues in World War II than it did in World War I, the war years were even tougher for the silk trade. As a national economy, Switzerland was largely cut off from foreign markets. While the silk trade was exempt from rationing measures, it was subordinated to the Swiss Textile Syndicate along with all other branches of the textile industry. The export guarantee issued by the Swiss Federal Council eased the situation for exports only. Starting in 1944, silk experienced a certain upswing due to the temporary shortage of wool and cotton. Following the war, the silk business began to flourish once again. Large supplies of Italian silk were exported to Switzerland, which stimulated the local economy.\n\nFollowing the development of synthetic fibers, particularly after World War II, the Swiss silk industry began processing less and less real silk.As a result, the demand for traditional silk drying methods declined significantly. In 1970, the company responded to the shifting market conditions by focussing on textile testing and changing its name to Testex AG. This laid the foundation for a new reorganization to a modern testing institute. In 1993, Testex joined the Oeko-Tex Association and began conducting human ecological tests on textiles.\n\nToday, little remains of the silk drying institute. The boom eras of Zurich’s silk industry are a thing of the past, and the Swiss textile industry has long been in decline. The \"Seidentrocknungsanstalt\", however, has managed to avoid a similar fate. Today, Testex AG is one of the largest textile testing companies in the world, and has experienced significant growth since the turn of the century. At the end of 2006, Testex AG engaged 66 employees, whereas in 2017 the company employs over 200 people in 20 locations worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "7953388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7953388", "title": "Times Square Red, Times Square Blue", "text": "Times Square Red, Times Square Blue\n\nTimes Square Red, Times Square Blue is a non-fiction book written by science fiction author Samuel R. Delany and published in 1999 by the New York University Press. The book is a compilation of two separate essays: \"Times Square Blue\" and \"...Three, Two, One, Contact: Times Square Red\".\n\n\"Times Square Blue\" is a first-hand narrative of Delany's (often referred to as \"Chip,\" or, occasionally, as \"The Professor\") sexual exploits in Times Square's pornographic movie theaters with other men (some homosexual, some heterosexual) from 1960 through the mid-1990s. He also describes, in detail, his relationships with these men inside and outside the theatres.\n\nThe second essay in the book discusses the nature of social relations within the realm of urban studies. Delany proposes two kinds of relationships, \"contact\" and \"networking,\" and analyzes the content and benefits of each. He also refers extensively to Jane Jacobs' \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32870863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32870863", "title": "Yatarō Mishima", "text": "Yatarō Mishima\n\nMishima was born in Kagoshima Prefecture.\n\nIn 1894–1900 he studied at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York where he earned a M.A. degree.\n\nDuring 1911–1913, Mishima was head of the Yokohama Specie Bank.\n\nMishima was Governor of the Bank of Japan in February 28, 1913 – March 7, 1919. As head of the bank, Mishima encouraged policies of monetary restraint.\n\nHis sudden death in 1919 was unexpected.\n\n\n"}
