{"id": "417849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417849", "title": "Action game", "text": "Action game\n\nThe action game is a video game genre that emphasizes physical challenges, including hand–eye coordination and reaction-time. The genre includes a large variety of sub-genres, such as fighting games, beat 'em ups, shooter games and platform games which are widely considered the most important action games, though multiplayer online battle arena and some real-time strategy games are also considered to be action games.\n\nIn an action game, the player typically controls a character often in the form of a protagonist or avatar. This player character must navigate a level, collecting objects, avoiding obstacles, and battling enemies with their natural skills as well as weapons and other tools at their disposal. At the end of a level or group of levels, the player must often defeat a boss enemy that is more challenging and often a major antagonist in the game's story. Enemy attacks and obstacles deplete the player character's health and lives, and the player receives a Game over when they run out of lives. Alternatively, the player gets to the end of the game by finishing a sequence of levels and seeing the credits. But some action games, such as early arcade games, are unbeatable and have an indefinite number of levels; with the player's only goal being to get as far as they can to maximize their score.\n\nThe action genre includes any game where the player overcomes challenges by physical means such as precise aim and quick response times. Action games can sometimes incorporate other challenges such as races, puzzles, or collecting objects, but they are not central to the genre. Players may also encounter tactical and exploration challenges, but these games first-and-foremost require high reaction speed and good hand–eye coordination. The player is often under time pressure, and there is not enough time for complex strategic planning. In general, faster action games are more challenging. Action games may sometimes involve puzzle solving, but they are usually quite simple because the player is under immense time pressure.\n\nPlayers advance through an action game by completing a series of levels. Levels are often grouped by theme, with similar graphics and enemies called a world. Each level involves a variety of challenges, whether dancing in a dance game or shooting things in a shooter, which the player must overcome to win the game. Older games force players to restart a level after dying, although action games evolved to offer saved games and checkpoints to allow the player to restart partway through a level. Increasingly, though, some games allow for 'resurrection' or 'cloning' and the opportunity to regain lost items upon death for a certain sum of ingame currency, typically increasing exponentially the more times the player dies. The obstacles and enemies in a level do not usually vary between play sessions, allowing players to learn by trial and error. However, levels sometimes add an element of randomness, such as an enemy that randomly appears or that takes an unpredictable path.\n\nLevels in an action game may be linear or nonlinear, and sometimes include shortcuts. For levels that require exploration, the player may need to search for a level exit that is hidden or guarded by enemies. Such levels can also contain secrets—hidden or hard-to-reach objects or places that contain something valuable. The prize can be a bonus (see below) or a non-standard exit that allows a player to access a hidden level, or jump ahead several levels. Action games sometimes offer a teleporter that will cause the player's avatar to re-appear elsewhere in the same level. Levels often make use of locked doors that can only be opened with a specific key found elsewhere in the level.\n\nAction games sometimes make use of time restrictions to increase the challenge. However, game levels typically do not react to time passing, and day/night cycles are rare. When the timer expires, the player typically loses a life, although some games generate a difficult enemy or challenge. If the level is completed with time remaining, this usually adds to the player's score.\n\nIn most action games, the player controls a single avatar as the protagonist. The avatar has the ability to navigate and maneuver, and often collects or manipulates objects. They have a range of defenses and attacks, such as shooting or punching. Many action games make use of a powerful attack that destroys all enemies within a limited range, but this attack is rare.\n\nPlayers may find a power-up within the game world that grants temporary or permanent improvements to their abilities. For example, the avatar may gain an increase in speed, more powerful attacks, or a temporary shield from attacks. Some action games even allow players to spend upgrade points on the power ups of their choice.\n\nIn action games that involve navigating a space, players will encounter obstacles, traps, and enemies. Enemies typically follow fixed patterns and attack the player, although newer action games may make use of more complex artificial intelligence to pursue the player. Enemies sometimes appears in groups or waves, with enemies increasing in strength and number until the end of the level. Enemies may also appear out of thin air. This can involve an invisible spawn point, or a visible generator which can be destroyed by the player. These points may generate enemies indefinitely, or only up to a certain number. At the end of a level or group of themed levels, players often encounter a boss. This boss enemy will often resemble a larger or more difficult version of a regular enemy. A boss may require a special weapon or attack method, such as striking when the boss opens their mouth or attacking particular part of the Boss.\n\nIn many action games, the avatar has a certain number of hit-markers or health, which are depleted by enemy attacks and other hazards. Sometimes health can be replenished by collecting an in-game object. When the player runs out of health, the player dies. The player's avatar is often given a small number of chances to retry after death, typically referred to as lives. Upon beginning a new life, the player resumes the game either from the same location they died, a checkpoint, or the start of the level. Upon starting a new life, the avatar is typically invincible for a few seconds to allow the player to re-orient themselves. Players may earn extra lives by reaching a certain score or by finding an in-game object. Arcade games still limit the number of player lives, while home video games have shifted increasingly to unlimited lives.\n\nAction games take place in either 2D or 3D from a variety of perspectives. 2D action games typically use a side view or top-down view. The screen frequently scrolls as the player explores the level, although many games scroll through the level automatically to push the player forward. In 3D action games, the perspective is usually tied to the avatar from a first-person or third-person perspective. However, some 3D games offer a context-sensitive perspective that is controlled by an artificial intelligence camera. Most of what the player needs to know is contained within a single screen, although action games frequently make use of a heads-up display that display important information such as health or ammunition. Action games sometimes make use of maps which can be accessed during lulls in action, or a mini-map that is always visible.\n\nAction games tend to set simple goals, and reaching them is obvious. A common goal is to defeat the end-of-game boss. This is often presented in the form of a structured story, with a happy ending upon winning the game. In some games, the goal changes as the player reveals more of the story.\n\nMany action games keep track of the player's score. Points are awarded for completing certain challenges, or defeating certain enemies. Skillful play is often rewarded with point multipliers, such as in \"Pac-Man\" where each ghost that the avatar eats will generate twice as many points as the last. Sometimes action games will offer bonus objects that increase the player's score. There is no penalty for failing to collect them, although these bonus objects may unlock hidden levels or special events. In many action games, achieving a high score is the only goal, and levels increase in difficulty until the player loses. Arcade games are more likely to be unbeatable, as they make their money by forcing the player to lose the game. On the other hand, games sold at home are more likely to have discrete victory conditions, since a publisher wants the player to purchase another game when they are done.\n\nAction games have several major subgenres. However, there are many action games without any clear subgenre, such as \"Frogger\", as well as other types of genres like Adventure or Strategy that have action elements.\n\nAction-adventure games mix elements of both action and adventure genres, examples include The Legend of Zelda, Assassin's Creed and Grand Theft Auto series.\n\nBeat 'em ups are games that involve fighting through a side-scrolling stage of multiple adversaries, using martial arts or other close-range fighting techniques.\n\nFighting games feature combat between pairs of fighters, usually using martial arts moves. Actions are limited to various attacks and defenses, and matches end when a fighter's health is reduced to zero. They often make use of special moves and combos. There are both 2D and 3D fighting games, but most 3D fighting games largely take place in a 2D plane and occasionally include side-stepping. They are distinct from sports games such as boxing and wrestling games which attempt to model movements and techniques more realistically.\n\nMaze games such as \"Pac-Man\" involve navigating a maze to avoid or chase adversaries.\n\nPlatform games involve jumping between platforms of different heights, while battling enemies and avoiding obstacles. Physics are often unrealistic, and game levels are often vertically exaggerated. They exist in both 2D and 3D forms.\n\nRhythm action games challenge the player's sense of rhythm, and award points for accurately pressing certain buttons in sync with a musical beat. This is a relatively new subgenre of action game. Rhythm games are sometimes classified as a type of music game.\n\nShooter games allow the player to take action at a distance using a ranged weapon, challenging them to aim with accuracy. Although shooting is usually a form of violence, non-violent shooters exist as well, such as Splatoon. This subgenre includes first-person shooters and third-person shooters, as well as a plethora of other shoot 'em up games taking place from a top-down or side-view perspective.\n\nSurvival games start the player off with minimal resources, in a hostile, open-world environment, and require them to collect resources, craft tools, weapons, and shelter, in order to survive as long as possible. Many are set in procedurally-generated environments, and are open-ended with no set goals. They may overlap with the survival horror genre, in which the player must survive within a supernatural setting, such as a zombie apocalypse. A specific subgenre of survival game is battle royale.\n\nStudies have shown that people can improve their eyesight by playing action video games. Tests by scientists at the University of Rochester on college students showed that over a period of a month, performance in eye examinations improved by about 20% in those playing \"Unreal Tournament\" compared to those playing \"Tetris\". Most arcade games are action games, because they can be difficult for unskilled players, and thus make more money quickly.\n\nResearchers from \"Helsinki School of Economics\" have shown that people playing a \"first-person shooter\" might secretly enjoy that their character gets killed in the game, although their expressions might show the contrary. The game used in the study was \"\".\n\nA major turning point for action games came with the 1978 release of the shoot 'em up game \"Space Invaders\", which marked the beginning of the golden age of arcade video games. As a result of \"Space Invaders\"' mainstream success, the industry came to be dominated by action games, which have remained the most dominant genre in video arcades and on game consoles through to the present day. Along with \"Space Invaders\", \"Asteroids\" from 1979 and \"Pac-Man\" from 1980 have also become iconic examples from the action genre. \"\", released in arcades in 1982, also became a classic in the shooter subgenre.\n\nIn much the same way \"Space Invaders\" set the template for the shooter game subgenre, \"Donkey Kong\" did the same for the platform game subgenre when it released in 1981. 1984 saw the emergence of martial arts themed games, with \"Karate Champ\" establishing the one-on-one fighting game subgenre, and \"Kung-Fu Master\" laying the foundations for the side-scrolling beat 'em up subgenre.\n"}
{"id": "23641453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23641453", "title": "American Friends of the Middle East", "text": "American Friends of the Middle East\n\nThe American Friends of the Middle East (AFME) was a pro-Arabist organization often critical of U.S. support for Israel that was formed in 1951 by columnist Dorothy Thompson, Kermit Roosevelt, Jr., and 24 further American educators, theologians, and writers (including Harry Emerson Fosdick). Virginia Gildersleeve, Roosevelt, Fosdick and others had founded a similarly oriented Committee for Justice and Peace in the Holy Land in 1948, which was subsumed into the new organization.\n\nThe Jewish Telegraphic Agency, a Jewish news agency, noted that the organization \"does not include a single Jew among its charter members, but has among them numerous outspoken Anti-Zionists,\" AND reported on a full page ad taken by the new organization in \"the New York press\" on June 27, 1951, reiterating its advertised purposes as follows:\n\nKermit Roosevelt, Jr. served as executive secretary of the AFME group of intellectuals and spokespersons for a time. In appealing for funds form American supporters “free from political pressure and racial and religious discrimination,” the AFME is reported to have stated that “most Americans… never had an accurate picture of Middle East.”\n\nHistorians R.M. Miller, Hugh Wilford, and others have argued that from its early years, AFME was a part of an Arabist propaganda effort within the US \"secretly funded and to some extent managed\" by the CIA, with further funding from the oil consortium Aramco.\n\n"}
{"id": "52715832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52715832", "title": "Anglophone problem (Cameroon)", "text": "Anglophone problem (Cameroon)\n\nThe Anglophone Problem, as it is commonly referred to in Cameroon, is a socio-political issue rooted in Cameroon's colonial legacies from the Germans, British, and the French.\n\nThe issue classically and principally opposes many Cameroonians from the Northwest and Southwest regions, many of whom consider themselves anglophones, to the Cameroon government. This is based on the fact that these two regions (formally British Southern Cameroons) were controlled by Britain as a mandated and trust territory of the League of Nations and the United Nations respectively.\" \n\nWhile many Northwesterners and Southwesterners believe there is an anglophone problem, some do not. In fact, the term \"anglophone\" today creates a lot of controversy, as many former French-speaking Cameroonians who are either bilingual or speak only English (most of whom have gone through the English sub-system of education) consider themselves as anglophones. The root of the Anglophone problem in Cameroon can be traced back to the Foumban Conference of 1961 that united the two territories, with different colonial legacies, into one state. The Anglophone Problem is increasingly dominating the political agenda of Cameroon. This problem has led to arguments and actions (protests, strikes, etc.) that argue for federalism or separation from the union by the Anglophones. Failure to address the Anglophone Problem threatens Cameroon's ability to create national unity between the two groups of people.\n\nThe roots of the Anglophone problem can be traced back to World War I, when Cameroon was known as German Kamerun. The German Empire first gained influence in Cameroon in 1845 when Alfred Saker of the Baptist Missionary Society introduced a mission station. In 1860, German merchants established a factory: the Woermann Company. On July 5, 1884, local tribes provided the Woermann Company with rights to control the Kamerun River, consequently setting the foundation for the later German colonization of Kamerun. In 1916, during World War I, France and Britain joined forces to attack and seize German Kamerun. Later, the Treaty of Versailles would award France and Britain mandates over Cameroon as punishment of the Germans who lost the war. Most of German Kamerun was given to the French, over 167,000 square miles of territory. The British were given Northern Cameroons, about 17,500 square miles of territory and Southern Cameroons, 16,580 square miles. Each colonizer would later influence the colonies with their European languages and cultures, thus rendering them as Anglophones and Francophones. The large difference in awarded territory has resulted in present-day Cameroon having a huge majority Francophone population and a very small minority Anglophone population.\n\nFollowing World War II, a wave of independence flowed rapidly throughout Africa. The United Nations obliged that Britain and France relinquish their colonies and guide them towards independence. There were three political options for British Southern Cameroons. They could become independent by uniting with Nigeria or with French Cameroun. No option of self-determination by becoming independent was given. The most desired option was independence with the least popular being unification with French Cameroun. However, during the British Plebiscite of 1961, the British argued that Southern Cameroons was not economically viable enough to sustain itself as an independent nation and could only survive by joining with Nigeria or La République du Cameroun (the Republic of Cameroon). Though documents on the United Nations' \"Non-Self-Governing Territories\" state, \"integration should be the result of the freely expressed wishes of the territory's peoples\", the United Nations would later reject Southern Cameroons' appeal to have independence as a sovereign nation placed on the ballot. The plebiscite questions were: \nThe United Nations documents defined the basis of integration as: \"Integration with an independent State should be on the basis of complete equality between the peoples of the erstwhile Non-Self-Governing Territory and those of the independent country with which it is integrated. The peoples of both territories should have equal status and rights of citizenship... at all levels in the executive, legislative and judicial organs of government.\" With this promise in mind, on February 1961, British Northern Cameroons voted to join Nigeria, while British Southern Cameroons voted to join La République du Cameroun.\n\nThe purpose of the Foumban Constitutional Conference was to create a constitution for the new Federal state of British Southern Cameroon and La République du Cameroun. The conference brought together representatives from La République du Cameroun, including Amadou Ahidjo, their president, with representatives from Southern Cameroons. Two weeks before the Foumban Conference, there were reports that more than one hundred people were killed by terrorists in Loum, Bafang, Ndom, and Douala. The reports worried unification advocates who wanted British Cameroon to unify with French Cameroun. For the conference, the location of Foumban had been carefully chosen to make Ahidjo, appear as if he had everything under control. Mr. Mbile, a Southern Cameroonian representative at the conference noted, \"Free from all the unrest that had scared Southern Cameroonians, the Francophone authorities had picked the place deliberately for the occasion. The entire town had been exquisitely cleaned up and houses splashed with whitewash. Food was good and receptions lavish. The climate in Foumban real or artificial went far to convince us that despite the stories of 'murder and fire,' there could be at least this island of peace, east of the Mungo.\"\n\nBefore the Foumban Conference, all the parties in Southern Cameroons, the Native Authority Councils and the traditional leaders attended the Bamenda Conference. This conference decided on a common proposal to present when negotiations with La République du Cameroun arrived. Among many things, the Bamenda Conference agreed on a non-centralized federation to ensure there was a distinction between the powers of the states and the powers of the federation. Most of the proposals from the Bamenda Conference were ignored by Ahidjo. Some of these proposals included having a bicameral legislature and decentralizing power, but instead a unicameral system was established with a centralized system of power.\n\nAt the Foumban conference, Ahidjo presented delegates with a draft constitution. By the end of the conference, instead of creating an entirely new constitution, the contributions of the Southern Cameroons delegates were reflected in suggestions made to the draft initially presented to them. John Ngu Foncha and Ahidjo intended for the Foumban Constitutional Conference to be brief, however delegates left the three day conference with the impression that there would be sequential conferences to continue the drafting of the constitution. Mbile later noted, \"We may have done more if we had spent five months instead of five days in writing our constitution at Foumban.\" The Constitution for the new Federal Republic was agreed in Yaoundé in August 1961, between Ahidjo and Foncha, pending approval by the House of Assembly of the two states. In the end, the West Cameroon House of Assembly never ratified the Constitution. However, on October 1, 1961, the Federal Republic of Cameroon nevertheless came to fruition.\n\nOn May 6, 1972, Ahidjo announces his decision to convert the Federal Republic into a unitary state, on the provision that the idea was supported via referendum. This suggestion violated the articles in the Foumban document that read: 'any proposal for the revision of the present constitution, which impairs the unity and integrity of the Federation shall be inadmissible,' and 'proposals for revision shall be adopted by simple majority vote of the members of the Federal Assembly, provided that such majority includes a majority of the representatives ... of each of the Federated States,'... not through referendum. Such violations easily allowed for the passing of the referendum that turned the Federal Republic into the United Republic of Cameroon. Taking into account these actions, the evidence shows that the Francophone's intentions may have not been to form a federal state, but rather to annex Southern Cameroons and not treat them as equals. In 1984, Ahidjo's successor, Paul Biya, replaced the name \"United Republic of Cameroon\" with \"La République du Cameroun,\" the same name the francophone Cameroon had before federation talks. With changes in the Constitution of 1996, reference to the existence of a territory called the British Southern Cameroons that had a \"functioning self-government and recognized international boundaries\" was essentially erased.\n\nDespite the non-acknowledgement/denial of the Anglophone problem from Francophone government leaders, there exists a discontent by Anglophones, both young and old, as to how Anglophones are treated. This discontent presents itself in calls for federation or separation with movements that are garnering strength. At the core of Anglophone grievances is the loss of the former West Cameroons as a \"distinct community defined by differences in official language and inherited colonial traditions of education, law, and public administration.\" On 22 December 2016, in a letter to Paul Biya, the Anglophone Archbishops of Southern Cameroons define the Anglophone problem as follows:\n\nMovements which advocate the separation of English-speaking Cameroon from French-speaking Cameroun exist, led by the Cameroon Action Group, the Southern Cameroons Youth League, the Southern Cameroons National Council, the Southern Cameroon Peoples Organization and the Ambazonia Movement.\n\nAdvocates of Federation want a return to the constitution agreed upon in the 1961 Foumban Conference that acknowledges the history and culture of the two regions while giving equal power to the two. This federation had been dismantled on 20 May 1972 by the larger French-speaking Cameroon and extended the latter's executive power throughout West Cameroon. Federation advocates include the instrumental Consortium of the leaders of three Cameroon-based trade unions: Lawyers, Teachers, and Transporters. It also includes some Cameroonians in the diaspora led by a well organized US-based Anglophone Action Group, Inc. (AAG). AAG was one of the first groups in the diaspora to endorse the Cameroon-based Consortium as a peaceful alternative to achieving a return to the pre-1972 federated system. Opponents of federation include the ruling Cameroon Peoples Democratic Movement.\n\nUnitarianism do not want Federation or Separation, but rather a decentralized unitary government; whereas, now the government is highly centralized in power. This violates the tenets of the 1996 Constitution as decentralization has yet to be implemented.\n\nIn March 1990, the Social Democratic Front (SDF) led by John Fru Ndi, was founded on the perception of widespread Anglophone alienation. The SDF was the first major opposition party to the People's Democratic Movement, led by Paul Biya.\n\nBelow are various reasons that Anglophones feel marginalized, systemically, by the government. \n\n\n, the Anglophone problem is still on-going. It has spiraled into violence with police officers and gendarmes shooting dead several civilians. Official sources have put the number at 17 dead, but local individuals and groups have talked of 50 or more. Radical members of some secessionist groups have killed several police officers and gendarmes. 15,000 refugees have fled Southern Cameroons into neighboring Nigeria, with the UNHCR expecting that number to grow to 40,000 if the situation continues.\n\nWithout clearly acknowledging the existence of the Anglophone problem, the President of Cameroon has attempted to appease tensions by making a number of announcements:\nSeveral separatist or secessionist groups have emerged or become more prominent as a result of the harsh response by the government to the Anglophone problem. These groups desire to see Southern Cameroons completely separate from \"La République du Cameroun\" and form its own state, sometimes referred to as \"Ambazonia\". Some groups such as the \"Southern Cameroon Ambazonia United Front\" (SCACUF) are using diplomatic means in an attempt to gain independence for the Anglophone regions, whereas other groups have begun to employ armed confrontation with artisan weapons against the deployed gendarmes and soldiers in those regions.\n\n"}
{"id": "612945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612945", "title": "Assur", "text": "Assur\n\nAššur (; Akkadian; \"Āšūr\"; Old Persian \"Aθur\", : \"Āšūr\"; : ', ), also known as Ashur and Qal'at Sherqat, was an Assyrian city, capital of the Old Assyrian Empire (2025–1750 BC), of the Middle Assyrian Empire (1365–1050 BC), and for a time, of the Neo-Assyrian Empire of 911–608 BC. The remains of the city lie on the western bank of the Tigris River, north of the confluence with the tributary Little Zab River, in modern-day Iraq, more precisely in the Al-Shirqat District of the Saladin Governorate.\n\nOccupation of the city itself continued for approximately 4,000 years, from the mid-3rd millennium BC (c. 2600 BC) to the mid-14th century AD, when the forces of Timur massacred its still indigenous Assyrian (and by then Christian) population. The site is a World Heritage Site, having been added to that organisation's list of sites in danger in 2003 following the conflict that erupted following the 2003 invasion of Iraq and as a result of a proposed dam which would flood some of the site. Assur lies 65 km (40 mi) south of the site of Nimrud and 100 km (60 mi) south of Nineveh.\n\nExploration of the site of Assur began in 1898 by German archaeologists. Excavations began in 1900 by Friedrich Delitzsch, and were continued in 1903–1913 by a team from the German Oriental Society led initially by Robert Koldewey and later by Walter Andrae. More than 16,000 tablets with cuneiform texts were discovered. Many of the objects found made their way to the Pergamon Museum in Berlin.\n\nMore recently, Ashur was excavated by B. Hrouda for the University of Munich and the Bavarian Ministry of Culture in 1990. During the same period, in 1988 and 1989, the site was being worked by R. Dittmann on behalf of the German Research Foundation.\n\n\"\" is the name of the city, of the land ruled by the city, and of its tutelary deity from which the natives take their name, as did the entire nation of Assyria which encompassed what is today northern Iraq, north east Syria and south east Turkey. Today the Assyrians are still found throughout the Middle East, particularly in Iraq, Iran, Syria, Turkey, and the Diaspora in the western world. Assur (Assurayu) is also the origin of the names Syria and Syriac, these being originally Indo-European derivations of Assyria, and for many centuries applying only to Assyria and the Assyrians (see Etymology of Syria) before also being applied to the Levant and its inhabitants by the Seleucid Empire in the 3rd century BC.\n\nArchaeology reveals the site of the city was occupied by the middle of the 3rd millennium BC. This was still the Sumerian period, before Assyria emerged in the 25th to 21st century BC. The oldest remains of the city were discovered in the foundations of the Ishtar temple, as well as at the Old Palace. In the subsequent period, the city was ruled by kings from the Akkadian Empire. During the Third Dynasty of Ur, the city was ruled by Assyrian governors subject to the Sumerians.\n\nBy the time the Neo-Sumerian Ur-III dynasty collapsed at the hands of the Elamites around the end of the 21st century BC according to the Middle Chronology and mid-20th century according to the Short Chronology following increasing raids by Gutians and Amorites. The native Akkadian-speaking Assyrian kings were now free while Sumer fell under the yoke of the Amorites. The Assyrian king Ushpia who reigned around the 21st century BC is credited with dedicating the first temple of the god Ashur in his home city, although this comes from a later inscription from Shalmaneser I in the 13th century. The temple likely dates to the original settlement of the site when the people of Ashur established their nation under the patronage of the city's god. Soon after in around 2000 BC, Puzur-Ashur I founded a new dynasty, with his successors such as Ilushuma, Erishum I and Sargon I leaving inscriptions regarding the building of temples to Ashur, Adad and Ishtar in the city. Prosperity and independence produced the first significant fortifications in this period. As the region enjoyed relative peace and stability, trade between Mesopotamia and Anatolia increased, and the city of Ashur greatly benefited from its strategic location. Merchants would dispatch their merchandise via caravan into Anatolia and trade primarily at Assyrian colonies in Anatolia, the primary one being at Karum Kanesh (Kültepe).\n\nWith Shamshi-Adad I's (1813–1781 BC) capital at Assur, he magnified the city's power and influence beyond the Tigris river valley, establishing what some regard as the first Assyrian Empire. In this era, the Great Royal Palace was built, and the temple of Assur was expanded and enlarged with a ziggurat. However, this empire met its end when Hammurabi, the Amorite king of Babylon conquered and incorporated the city into his short lived empire following the death of Ishme-Dagan I around 1756 BC, while the next three Assyrian kings were viewed as vassals. Not long after, the native king Adasi expelled the Babylonians and Amorites from Assur and Assyria as a whole around 1720 BC, although little is known of his successors. Evidence of further building activity is known from a few centuries later, during the reign of a native king Puzur-Ashur III, when the city was refortified and the southern districts incorporated into the main city defenses. Temples to the moon god Sin (Nanna) and the sun god Shamash were built and dedicated through the 15th century BC. The city was subsequently subjugated by the king of Mitanni, Shaushtatar in the late 15th century, taking the gold and silver doors of the temple to his capital, Washukani, as spoils.\n\nAshur-uballit I emulated his ancestor Adasi and overthrew the Mitanni empire in 1365 BC. The Assyrians reaped the benefits of this triumph by taking control of the eastern portion of the Mitanni Empire, and later also annexing Hittite, Babylonian, Amorite and Hurrian territory. The following centuries witnessed the restoration of the old temples and palaces of Assur, and the city once more became the throne of a magnanimous empire from 1365 BC to 1076 BC. Tukulti-Ninurta I (1244–1208 BC) also constructed a new temple to the goddess Ishtar. The Anu-Adad temple was established later during the reign of Tiglath-Pileser I (1115–1075 BC). The walled area of the city in the Middle Assyrian period made up some .\n\nIn the Neo-Assyrian Empire (912–605 BC), the royal residence was transferred to other Assyrian cities. Ashur-nasir-pal II (884–859 BC) moved the capital from Assur to Kalhu (Calah/Nimrud) following a series of successful campaigns and produced some of the greatest artworks in the form of colossal lamassu statues and low-relief depictions of the royal court as well as battles. With the reign of Sargon II (722–705 BC), a new capital began to rise. Dur-Sharrukin (Fortress of Sargon) on a scale set to surpass that of Ashurnasirpal's. However, he died in battle and his son and successor Sennacherib (705–682 BC) abandoned the city, choosing to magnify Niniveh as his royal capital. However, the city of Ashur remained the religious center of the empire and continued to be revered as the holy crown of the empire, due to its temple of the national god Ashur. In the reign of Sennacherib (705–682 BC), the House of the New Year, \"Akitu\", was built, and the festivities celebrated in the city. Many of the kings were also buried beneath the Old Palace while some queens were buried in the other capitals such as the wife of Sargon, Ataliya. The city was sacked and largely destroyed during the decisive battle of Assur, a major confrontation between the Assyrian and Median armies.\n\nAfter the Medes were overthrown by the Persians as the dominant force in ancient Iran, Assyria was ruled by the Persian Achaemenid Empire (as Athura) from 549 BC to 330 BC (see Achaemenid Assyria). The Assyrians of Mada (Media) and Athura (Assyria) had been responsible for gold and glazing works of the palace and for providing Lebanese cedar timber, respectively. The city and region of Ashur had once more gained a degree of militaristic and economic strength. Along with the Assyrians in Mada, a revolt took place in 520 BC but ultimately failed. Assyria seems to have recovered dramatically, and flourished during this period. It became a major agricultural and administrative centre of the Achaemenid Empire, and its soldiers were a mainstay of the Persian Army.\n\nThe city revived during the Parthian Empire period, particularly between 150 BC and 270 AD, being resettled and becoming an administrative centre of Parthian-ruled [Assuristan]]. Assyriologists Simo Parpola and Patricia Crone suggest Assur may have had outright independence in this period. Other polities such as Beth Garmai, Beth Nuhadra and Adiabene also flourished due to the fact that the Parthians exercised only loose or intermittent control of Assyria. New administrative buildings were erected to the north of the old city, and a palace to the south. The old temple dedicated to the national god of the Assyrians Assur (Ashur) was rebuilt, as were temples to other Assyrian gods.\n\nAssyrian Eastern Aramaic inscriptions from the remains of Ashur have yielded insight into the Parthian-era city with Assyria having its own Aramaic Syriac script, which was the same in terms of grammar and syntax as that found at Edessa and elsewhere in the state of Osroene.\n\nGerman archaeologist Klaus Beyer published over 600 inscriptions from Mesopotamian towns and cities including Ashur, Dura-Europos, Hatra, Gaddala, Tikrit and Tur Abdin. Given that Christianity had begun to spread amongst the Assyrians throughout the Parthian era, the original Assyrian culture and religion persisted for some time, as proven by the inscriptions that include invocations to the gods Ashur, Nergal, Sin, Ishtar and Shamash, as well as mentions of citizens having compound names that refer to Assyrian gods, such as ʾAssur-ḥēl (Ashur [is] my strength), ʾAssur-emar (Ashur decreed/commanded), ʾAssur-ntan (Ashur gave [a son]), and ʾAssur-šma' (Ashur has heard; cf. Esarhaddon).\n\nThe Roman historian Festus wrote in about 370 that in AD 116 Trajan formed from his conquests east of the Euphrates the new Roman provinces of Mesopotamia and Assyria. The existence of the latter Roman province is questioned by C.S. Lightfoot and F. Miller. In any case, just two years after the province's supposed creation, Trajan's successor Hadrian restored Trajan's eastern conquests to the Parthians, preferring to live with him in peace and friendship.\nThere were later Roman incursions into Mesopotamia under Lucius Verus and under Septimius Severus, who set up the Roman provinces of Mesopotamia and Osroene.\n\nThe Persian Shapur I (241–272) captured and sacked the city in 257 AD after doing the same to Osroene, Adiabene, Beth Nuhadra, Beth Garmai and Hatra, incorporating them into the Sassanid Empire.\n\nThough destroyed by Shapur I, the city remained inhabited until the 12th and 13th century, when it belonged successively to the Zengid dynasty and the Ilkhanate. It was then abandoned and in part used as a cemetery.\n\nThe site was put on UNESCO's List of World Heritage in danger in 2003, at which time the site was threatened by a looming large-scale dam project that would have submerged the ancient archaeological site. The dam project was put on hold shortly after the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nThe territory around the ancient site was occupied by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in 2015. Since ISIL had destroyed a number of ancient Assyrian sites, including the cities of Hatra, Khorsabad, and Nimrud, fears rose that Assur would be destroyed too. According to some sources, the citadel of Assur was destroyed or badly damaged in May 2015 by members of IS using improvised explosive devices. As of February 2017, the group no longer controls the site, however it is not secure enough for archaeological experts to evaluate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52437282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52437282", "title": "Budilnik", "text": "Budilnik\n\nBudilnik (, Alarm clock) was a weekly Russian illustrated satirical journal published originally, in 1865—1871, in Saint Petersburg, then, in 1873—1917, in Moscow.\n\nThe magazine was founded by the artist and caricaturist Nikolai Stepanov (formerly a co-editor of \"Iskra\", with Vasily Kurochkin) who for six years was its editor-in-chief. During this time \"Bidilnik\" was (alongside \"Iskra\") the leading force of political satire in Russia, warring with the right wing and conservative press, mostly Katkov's \"Moskovskiye Vedomosti\" and Krayevsky's \"Golos\". The magazine's circulation reached its peak in 1866 (around 4200) and since then was slowly declining. In mid-1870s \"Budilnik\" became an apolitical, purely entertaining journal. Among his later editors were A.P. Sukhov, A.D. Kurepin, L.N. Utkin, E.G. Arnold, Nikolai Kicheyev, Vladimir Levinsky. \n\nAmong the authors who contributed to it regularly were Pyotr Weinberg (in 1866-1867 the head of its literary section, pen names: Heine form Tambov, The Melancholic), Liodor Palmin, Ivan Dmitriyev (originally the head of its literary section), Gavriil Zhulev (also: The Grieving Poet), Nikolai Zlatovratsky (N. Cherevanin), Dmitry Minayev (Literature Domino, 40 Year Old Dandy, Dark Man), Alexander Levitov, Nikolai Leykin, Fyodor Reshetnikov, Vladimir Shchiglev, Mikhail Stopanovsky, Konstantin Stanyukovich, Gleb Uspensky (as D. Petrov, V. Pechkin), Anton Chekhov (Antosha Chekhonte, G. Baldastov, My Brother's Brother, Patientless Doctor). \n"}
{"id": "26301423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26301423", "title": "Cara Sucia (Mesoamerican site)", "text": "Cara Sucia (Mesoamerican site)\n\nCara Sucia is a Mesoamerican archaeological site in western El Salvador. The site was first settled in the Preclassic period and was finally abandoned around 900 AD, in the Terminal Classic, when the Pipil people moved into the region, although there is no evidence of Pipil occupation at the site. It is thought that during the Early Preclassic (1200–500 BC), the site was occupied by people who spoke a forerunner of the Mayan languages, and during the Late Preclassic period the site has evidence of contact with Chalchuapa and with Kaminaljuyu in the Guatemalan Highlands.\n\nThe site is one of the most important archaeological sites in western El Salvador, but has not been restored. It consists of a number of grass-covered mounds, some of which are very large. Archaeologist Paul Amaroli has carried out investigations at the site. Stylistic similarities of the architecture, ceramics and sculpture of the site indicate a link with the Cotzumalhuapa culture in Pacific Guatemala. Cara Sucia is the southeasternmost regional centre associated with this culture.\n\nCara Sucia appears to have experienced two principal phases of occupation, the first of which lasted from the Middle Preclassic through to the Late Preclassic and the second from approximately AD 650 to AD 950, in the Late to Terminal Classic period. The principal structures at the site date to the second phase of occupation, during the Late Classic. Late Classic architecture at Cara Sucia includes temples, rectangular houses, two enclosed Mesoamerican ballcourts and a large platform supporting various smaller structures. Cara Sucia appears to have been an important site for the manufacture of ceramic figurines and whistles.\n\nNineteenth-century historian Santiago Ignacio Barbarena first reported the archaeological site with the discovery of various artefacts there, including a stone sculpture of a jaguar head. Cara Sucia has been severely damaged by looters since the Land Reform Programme of 1980, with over 5000 looters' trenches having been recorded. After controls were placed on the import of artefacts to the United States in 1987, the scale of looting was dramatically reduced by the following year. In 1992 Cara Sucia was entered on the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative Lists, together with the El Imposible National Park.\n\nThe site at Cara Sucia is currently not open for visitors.\n"}
{"id": "1063495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1063495", "title": "Chapter (books)", "text": "Chapter (books)\n\nA chapter is one of the main divisions of a piece of writing of relative length, such as a book of prose, poetry, or law. A chapter book may have multiple chapters and these can be referred to by the things that may be the main topic of that specific chapter. In each case, chapters can be numbered or titled or both. An example of a chapter that has become well known is \"Down the Rabbit-Hole\", which is the first chapter from \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\".\n\nMany novels of great length have chapters. Non-fiction books, especially those used for reference, almost always have chapters for ease of navigation. In these works, chapters are often subdivided into sections. Larger works with a lot of chapters often group them in several 'parts' as the main subdivision of the book.\n\nThe chapters of reference works are almost always listed in a table of contents. Novels sometimes use a table of contents, but not always. If chapters are used they are normally numbered sequentially; they may also have titles, and in a few cases an epigraph or prefatory quotation. In older novels it was a common practice to summarise the content of each chapter in the table of contents and/or in the beginning of the chapter.\n\nIn works of fiction, authors sometimes number their chapters eccentrically, often as a metafictional statement. For example:\n\nIn ancient civilizations, books were often in the form of papyrus or parchment scrolls, which contained about the same amount of text as a typical chapter in a modern book. This is the reason chapters in recent reproductions and translations of works of these periods are often presented as \"Book 1\", \"Book 2\" etc.\n\nIn the early printed era, long works were often published in multiple volumes, such as the Victorian triple decker novel, each divided into numerous chapters. Modern omnibus reprints will often retain the volume divisions. In some cases the chapters will be numbered consecutively all the way through, such that \"Book 2\" might begin with \"Chapter 9\", but in other cases the numbering might reset after each part (i.e., \"Book 2, Chapter 1\"). Even though the practice of dividing novels into separate volumes is rare in modern publishing, many authors still structure their works into \"Books\" or \"Parts\" and then subdivide them into chapters. A notable example of this is The Lord of the Rings which consists of six 'Books', each with a recognizable part of the story, although it is usually published in three volumes.\n\n"}
{"id": "11649405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11649405", "title": "Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007", "text": "Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007\n\nThe Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007 (full name: Secure Borders, Economic Opportunity and Immigration Reform Act of 2007 ()) was a bill discussed in the 110th United States Congress that would have provided legal status and a path to citizenship for the approximately 12 million undocumented immigrants residing in the United States. The bill was portrayed as a compromise between providing a path to citizenship for illegal aliens and increased border enforcement: it included funding for of vehicle barriers, 105 camera and radar towers, and 20,000 more Border Patrol agents, while simultaneously restructuring visa criteria around high-skilled workers. The bill also received heated criticism from both sides of the immigration debate. The bill was introduced in the United States Senate on May 9, 2007, but was never voted on, though a series of votes on amendments and cloture took place. The last vote on cloture, on June 7, 2007, 11:59 AM, failed 34–61 effectively ending the bill's chances. A related bill S. 1639, on June 28, 2007, 11:04 AM, also failed 46–53.\n\nThe bill was a compromise based largely on three previous failed immigration reform bills:\n\n\nThe bill's sole sponsor in the Senate was Majority Leader Harry Reid, though it was crafted in large part as a result of efforts by Senators Kennedy, McCain and Kyl, along with Senator Lindsey Graham, and input from President George W. Bush, who strongly supported the bill. For that reason it was referred to in the press by various combinations of these five men's names, most commonly \"Kennedy–Kyl\". A larger group of senators was involved in creating the bill, sometimes referred to as the 'Gang of 12'. Senator David Vitter of Louisiana led the opposition to the bill, clashing with McCain and Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska.\n\nAt the same time, the Security Through Regularized Immigration and a Vibrant Economy Act of 2007 was being considered in the United States House of Representatives, although to considerably less public attention.\n\nOn June 7, three Senate votes on cloture (a move to end discussion) for the bill failed with the first losing 33–63, the second losing 34–61 and the third losing 45–50. This had been thought by some observers to signal the end of the bill's chances, since on that day, after the first failing vote, Harry Reid had told reporters that, if another vote on cloture failed, \"the bill's over with. The bill's gone.\"\n\nHowever, at the urging of President Bush, the bill was brought back for discussion in the Senate as bill S. 1639 on June 25. On June 26, a motion to proceed passed the Senate, by a margin of 64–35 (under Senate rules it needed 60 votes). A number of amendments to the bill were considered and rejected. On June 28, the bill failed to get the 60 votes necessary to end debate. The final cloture vote lost, 46–53. This effectively ended its chances, and President Bush said he was disappointed at Congress's failure to act on the issue.\n\nS.1639 would have created a new class of visa, the \"Z visa\", that would be given to everyone who was living without a valid visa in the United States on Jan. 1, 2010; this visa would give its holder the legal right to remain in the United States for the rest of their lives, and access to a Social Security number. After eight years, the holder of a Z visa would be eligible for a United States Permanent Resident Card (a \"green card\") if they wanted to have one; they would first have to pay a $2,000 fine, and back taxes for some of the period in which they worked. By the normal rules of green cards, five years after that the undocumented immigrant could begin the process of becoming a U.S. citizen.\n\nS.1639 would have required such an undocumented immigrant to be in his or her home country when he or she applies for a green card.\n\nS.1639 would have also ended family reunification, in which an immigrant who becomes a U.S. citizen can ease the process by which their relatives from outside the country can get green cards. Under the bill, only the spouse and children of a new citizen would be made eligible for green cards.\n\nS.1639 would eliminate the employer-sponsored component of the immigration system and replace it with a point-based \"merit\" system. Points would be awarded by the USCIS adjudicating officers for a combination of education, job skills, family connections and English proficiency. Sponsorship of a U.S. employer would not be required although additional points would be awarded if a U.S. job offer was available. The labor certification process would also be eliminated. Several family-based immigration categories would also be folded into the point system. Points-based systems are already used for admitting skilled immigrants in the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada and other developed countries.\n\nAnother new category of visa, the \"Y visa\", would have been created, that would let temporary guest workers stay in the country for two years, after which they would have to return home. The original bill set this program at 400,000 people a year. However, its scope was greatly reduced by two amendments passed by the Senate: the first, sponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, reduced the number of entrants to 200,000 a year; the second, sponsored by Senator Byron Dorgan, set the program to only run for five years.\n\nThe bill would have increased enforcement of the United States-Mexico border, including increasing the number of border patrol agents by 20,000 and adding another of fencing, among others.\n\nThe bill would have also created a new program, the \"Employment Eligibility Verification System\", that would be a central database meant to hold immigrant-status information on all workers living in the United States. Eventually all employers, regardless of size of the company, would have been required to assemble this information and keep the system updated on all their employees.\n\nUnder the terms of the bill, no further part of the bill would have gone forward until these measures had been implemented.\n\nA group of conservative Republican senators, led by Jim DeMint, claimed that a majority of the enforcement provisions in the bill were already required under previous law, including the 2005 REAL ID Act and the 2006 Secure Fence Act.\n\nThe bill contained within it the entirety of the DREAM Act, a bill that has been introduced unsuccessfully several times in the House and Senate, that would provide a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants brought into the country as minors who either go to college or serve in the U.S. military; it would also restore states rights in determining eligibility for in-state tuition.\n\nThe DREAM Act has four basic requirements, which are:\n\nThe bills received heated criticism from both the right wing and the left wing. Conservatives rejected providing a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, as it would reward them for disregarding United States immigration laws. Liberals criticized the points-based system and provisions limiting family reunification visas available to only nuclear family members of US citizens as unfair. Labor unions, human rights, and some Hispanic organizations attacked the guest workers program, claiming that it would create a group of underclass workers with no benefits. Another criticism of the guest workers program was that because each guest worker is required to return home for a year before renewing his or her visa, these workers would instead overstay their visa, becoming illegal immigrants.\n\nHigh-tech industry criticized the point-based green card system for scrapping employer sponsorship of green card applications and eliminating priority processing for the highly skilled workers specifically selected by the U.S. employers. Many immigration practitioners, while supporting aspects of the proposal, criticized the bill as \"unworkable\" and called for fundamentally revising it.\nCritics of the bill in the U.S. Senate also complained that the Senate consideration of the bill did not follow the usual procedure, as the bill did not go through the committee debate and approval process and the opportunities to offer floor amendments were limited.\n\n\"Last Best Chance\", story 12 in \"\", a documentary series from filmmaking team Shari Robertson and Michael Camerini, centers around Ted Kennedy's efforts to pass the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007. The film premiered on HBO as \"The Senators' Bargain\" on March 24, 2010, and was featured in the 2010 Human Rights Watch Film Festival at Lincoln Center. Since its release the film has become an important resource for advocates, policy-makers and educators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "938586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938586", "title": "Creativity techniques", "text": "Creativity techniques\n\nCreativity techniques are methods that encourage creative actions, whether in the arts or sciences. They focus on a variety of aspects of creativity, including techniques for idea generation and divergent thinking, methods of re-framing problems, changes in the affective environment and so on. They can be used as part of problem solving, artistic expression, or therapy.\n\nSome techniques require groups of two or more people while other techniques can be accomplished alone. These methods include word games, written exercises and different types of improvisation, or algorithms for approaching problems. Aleatory techniques exploiting randomness are also common.\n\nAleatoricism is the incorporation of chance (random elements) into the process of creation, especially the creation of art or media. Aleatoricism is commonly found in music, art, and literature, particularly in poetry. In film, Andy Voda made a movie in 1979 called \"Chance Chants\", which he produced by a flip of a coin or roll of a die. In music, John Cage, an avant-garde musician, composed music by using the \"I Ching\" to determine the position of musical notes, superimposing star maps on blank sheet music, by rolling dice and preparing open-ended scores that depended on the spontaneous decisions of the performers. (1) Other ways of practicing randomness include coin tossing, picking something out of a hat, or selecting random words from a dictionary. \n\nThe aleatory approach is also demonstrated in the case of the process called provocation, which was initially introduced by Edward de Bono as an aid to research. This method, which Richard Restak said was also employed by Anthony Burgess, aims to achieve novel ideas in writing by directing a plot with creative connections through random words picked from a reference book. Restak explained that the two hundred billion interconnected neural cells in the brain are capable of an abundance of possibilities for long-range connections and creative interactions using random and unrelated words.\n\nIn short, aleatoricism is a way to introduce new thoughts or ideas into a creative process.\n\nImprovisation is a creative process which can be spoken, written, or composed without prior preparation.\nImprovisation, also called extemporization, can lead to the discovery of new ways to act, new patterns of thought and practices, or new structures. Improvisation is used in the creation of music, theater, and other various forms. Many artists also use improvisational techniques to help their creative flow.\n\nThe following are two significant domains that use improvisation:\n\n\nIn problem-solving contexts, the random-word creativity technique is perhaps the simplest method. A person confronted with a problem is presented with a randomly generated word, in the hopes of a solution arising from any associations between the word and the problem. This technique is based on associative thinking, the process of retrieving information from our knowledge and automatically find patterns across elements. While standard associative thinking generates associations between concepts that are strongly related and not very original, the unpredictability of a random word will lead to explore new associations that would not emerge automatically, and hopefully trigger novel solutions. A random image, sound, or article can be used instead of a random word as a kind of creativity goad or provocation.\n\nThere are many problem-solving tools and methodologies to support creativity:\n\n\nFor project management purposes, group creativity techniques are creativity techniques used by a team in the course of executing a project. Some relevant techniques are brainstorming, the nominal group technique, the Delphi technique, idea/mind mapping, the affinity diagram, and multicriteria decision analysis. These techniques are referenced in the \"Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge\".\n\nGroup creativity techniques can be used in a sequence; for example:\n\nMultiple studies have confirmed that distraction actually increases creative cognition. One such study done by Jonathan Schooler found that non-demanding distractions improve performance on a classic creativity task called the UUT (Unusual Uses Task) in which the subject must come up with as many possible uses for a common object. The results confirmed that decision-related neural processes occur during moments of unconscious thought while a person engages in a non-demanding task. The research showed that while distracted a subject isn’t maintaining one thought for a particularly long time, which in turn allows different ideas to float in and out of one’s consciousness—this sort of associative process leads to creative incubation.\n\nAmbient noise is another variable that is conducive to distraction, yet it has been proven that a moderate level of noise actually heighten creativity. Professor Ravi Mehta conducted a study to research the degree of distraction induced by various noise levels and their effect on creativity. The series of experiments show that a moderate level of ambient noise (70 dB) produces just enough distraction to induce processing disfluency, which leads to abstract cognition. These higher construal levels caused by moderate levels of noise consequently enhance creativity.\n\nIn 2014, a study found that walking increased creativity, an activity favored by Albert Einstein.\n\nSome advocate enhancing creativity by taking advantage of hypnagogia, the transition from wakefulness to sleep, using techniques such as lucid dreaming. One technique used by Salvador Dalí was to drift off to sleep in an armchair with a set of keys in his hand; when he fell completely asleep, the keys would fall and wake him up, allowing him to recall his mind's subconscious imaginings. Thomas Edison used the same technique, with ball bearings.\n\nA study from 2014 conducted by researchers in China and the US, including the psychologist Michael Posner found that performing a short 30 minute meditation session each day, for seven days, was sufficient to improve verbal and visual creativity, as measured by the Torrance Tests of Creative Thinking, due to the positive effects of meditation on emotional regulation. The same researchers also showed in 2015 that short term meditation training could also improve insight-based problem solving (the type commonly associated with an \"Ah-ha\", or \"eureka\" type moment of realization) as measured by the Remote Associates Test.\n"}
{"id": "54088294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54088294", "title": "Dublin Streets: a Vendor of Books", "text": "Dublin Streets: a Vendor of Books\n\nDublin Streets: a Vendor of Books is a 80 x 90 cm oil on canvas painting by the Irish artist Walter Osborne, completed in 1889 and housed in the National Gallery of Ireland. It is one of a series of paintings Osborne made at the time emphasising the plight and hardships of Dublin's poor.\n\nThe painting shows a bookseller's stall, set up on Eden Quay, looking eastwards towards O'Connell Bridge with a hazy impressionistic view of James Gandon’s Custom house. A mother leaning against the wall holds a child in her arms. She looks tired and anxious, and appears to be connected with the young barefoot girl who approaches the bookseller's customers, offering daffodils for sale. That they have been unsuccessful attracting buyers is indicated by the basket full of flowers on the ground by the woman. \n\nOther details in the bustling scene include traffic (horses, carts and pedestrians) passing over O'Connell Bridge, and a barge and skiff just coming into view as they travel up the River Liffey. To the right of the main figures are a number of horse-drawn carts awaiting fares. A number of men wearing kilts gather at a corner.\n\nThe painting is one of a series of paintings of Dublin street scenes the artist completed around the time, during visits home from his residence in England. They were later exhibited as a group at the Royal Academy. The series was completed in oils in his studio, using detailed pencil sketches, and also on photographs, a modern approach for a painter at the time. Like the other works in the series, \"Dublin Streets\" is documentary in subject matter, influenced in part by the French Naturalist and Realist painters. \n\nAlthough highly regarded today, these documentary, street paintings depicting everyday life were not commercially successful, and Osborne supplemented his income through portrait paintings, which were not as artistically satisfying. However, it remains an invaluable faithful record the quay in 1889; O'Connell bridge had just been rebuilt, while the view of Custom's house was overshadowed in 1891 by the Loopline Viaduct.\n\n"}
{"id": "45503586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45503586", "title": "Ecclesia orans", "text": "Ecclesia orans\n\nEcclesia orans is liturgy scientific journal published by the Pontifical Liturgical Institute of Sant’Anselmo in Rome. \n\"Periodica de Scientiis Liturgicis\" is the subtitle of the review.\n\n\"Ecclesia orans\" was initiated in 1984. Next year was the time of the first issue that used to appear three times a year; \na reader was given 120 pages of \"Ecclesia orans\" the format of which was not changed from the beginning. Since 2013 it has been occurring twice a year.\n\nEach time a reader can find articles on historical and literary study, liturgical theology and pastoral questions, publications concerning crucial liturgical affairs of the following kind: congresses, and noticeable publications on liturgy, and reviews of books. Pontifical Liturgical Institute life and activities are being described in a regular Newsletter. At the end of \"Ecclesia orans\" one can find a section of useful indexes: names, manuscripts, documents of the Church's magisterium, as well as liturgical, patristic and Christian authors sources, passages of euchology and songs, and the main index.\n\nBoth \"Ecclesia orans\" and the Pontifical Liturgical Institute of Sant’Anselmo in Rome are worldwide. There is a varied group of people that can contribute: the Liturgical Institute professors as well as other Faculties of the Athenaeum of Sant’Anselmo that come from different countries, the Liturgical Institute graduates, prominent liturgical scholars, and from writers who specialize in topics that are connected with the liturgy. One can read articles in the language of the writers: English, French, German, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish. The language that is used for editorial purposes is always English and Italian. \"Ecclesia orans, Periodica de Scientiis Liturgicis\" has now its own review that has been waiting for. Its twenty-two year experience and resources will help is an excellent tool to sanctify both men and women in Christ and worship God.\n\nFuture liturgy professors, researchers, directors of liturgical commissions, and liturgical animators have been engaged with the formation by the Pontifical Liturgical Institute. In order to achieve its aim, the Liturgical Institute, raised to an Ecclesiastical Faculty in 1978 and organises courses so that students can be taught properly. Professors of the Liturgical Institute, for whom historical and theological approach to the liturgy is of vital importance. Not only formation of student is crucial for the Liturgical Institute but also books that are published to promote the liturgical sciences. The following volumes are in three volumes: \"Rerum Ecclesiasticarum Documenta\", \"Analecta Liturgica\", and \"Anàmnesis\".\n\nAnother expression of the Liturgical Institute is \"Ecclesia orans, Periodica de Scientiis Liturgicis\" – its engagement is to extend the growth of the liturgy on a larger, international scale. The direction of the new review is to take is multi-faceted; a varied aspect of liturgy as follows: literary (editing and study of texts), historical, theological, pastoral, and artistic. What one will find special and original in the review is the scientific method and topic discussion. This is the way in which conciliar and postconciliar liturgical renewal can be led to scientific discussions. The Liturgical Institute will respond authoritatively to current issues of pastoral liturgy and to adapt to different cultures only provided that it builds on a solid scientific basis.\n\nThe review aimed to contribute to this process over the last 30 years; accepting various contributions to its pages strictly academic in nature, based on the research of their various authors, which is offered as a means to promote the science and technology needed to support a ritual celebration that is more committed and more aware of what he is doing. Among the objectives of the reforms of the Second Vatican Council and, before that, of the liturgical movement, was the intention to provide the necessary means for scientific research of the celebration of the liturgy, which could lead to a greater awareness of the reality that is celebrated. That is why, during the 19th and 20th centuries, different series and editions of sources have come into existence, especially patristic and liturgical sources, which over the years have become indispensable tools for the construction of a liturgical study and development of liturgical theology.\n\nThe strategy of this review with a strictly academic nature is determined by this principle: to provide a place for fellowship, discussion and reflection necessary to provide a serious theological ground on which to base the liturgical celebration. Therefore, \"Ecclesia orans\" has become an reliable voice, the echo of the Pontifical Liturgical Institute, which for more than 50 years of its life has promoted research on what the Tradition of the Church, in its more authoritarian forms, has given us. And it is in this line that the most important contribution of this first edition of 2013 has been included, the letter received by the editor of the magazine, from the emeritus Pope Benedict XVI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9617734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9617734", "title": "Ecquid Novi", "text": "Ecquid Novi\n\nEcquid Novi: African Journalism Studies is a masked peer-reviewed academic journal for journalism research in Africa.\n\nThe journal was established in 1980 in South Africa and publishes critical articles from all perspectives that contribute to the theoretical knowledge base of journalism as a field of study, research and praxis in Africa. The journal specifically aims to foster a better understanding of journalism, media studies and mass communication as research disciplines in the comparative context of Africa and the South. While the focus of the journal is on Africa, its scope and academic interest is global.\n\n\"Ecquid Novi\" is affiliated with the Journalism Studies Division of the International Communication Association, as well as the African Council for Communication Education and the Journalism Research and Education Section of the International Association for Media and Communication Research. The journal sponsors the best journalism research paper of the International Communication Division of the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication. It is also affiliated with the South African Communication Association and is accredited by the South African Department of Education for the measurement of research output purposes.\n\nThe journal is published three times annually by Routledge and UNISA Press, in cooperation with the Institute for Media Analysis in South Africa. The editor is Herman Wasserman (School of Journalism and Media Studies, Rhodes University).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in ProQuest, the Social Sciences Citation Index, and Scopus.\n\n"}
{"id": "4616903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4616903", "title": "Eleanor Jorden", "text": "Eleanor Jorden\n\nEleanor Harz Jorden (1920 – February 18, 2009) was an American linguistics scholar and an influential Japanese language educator and expert. Born Eleanor Harz, she married William Jorden, reporter and diplomat; the marriage ended in divorce.\n\nDr. Jorden earned her Ph.D. at Yale University under the direction of Bernard Bloch in 1950. She was best known for her seminal textbooks on the Japanese language, including \"Beginning Japanese\" and \"\". The latter text included Jorden's JSL system of rōmaji for transcribing Japanese into Roman script. Her explanations of the subtleties of Japanese grammar and usage are still widely referenced today.\n\nJorden taught Japanese at many educational institutions, including Cornell University, Bryn Mawr College, Johns Hopkins University, Williams College, the University of Hawaii, International Christian University in Tokyo and Ohio State University. For many years, Jorden also served as Chairman of the Department of East Asian Languages at the U.S. State Department's Foreign Service Institute (FSI).\n\nJorden also founded several programs, including the intensive FALCON Program at Cornell University and the Foreign Service Institute Japanese Language School in Tokyo, Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "334346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334346", "title": "Faxian", "text": "Faxian\n\nFaxian (; 337 – c. 422) was a Chinese Buddhist monk and translator who traveled by foot from China to India, visiting many sacred Buddhist sites in what are now Xinjiang, Pakistan, India, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka between 399-412 to acquire Buddhist texts. His journey is described in his important travelogue, \"A Record of Buddhist Kingdoms, Being an Account by the Chinese Monk Fa-Xian of his Travels in India and Ceylon in Search of the Buddhist Books of Discipline\". Other transliterations of his name include Fa-Hien, Fa-hian, and Fa-hsien.\n\nIn 399 Faxian set out with nine others to locate sacred Buddhist texts. He visited India in the early fifth century. He is said to have walked all the way from China across the icy desert and rugged mountain passes. He entered India from the northwest and reached Pataliputra. He took back with him Buddhist texts and images sacred to Buddhism. He saw the ruins of the city when he reached Pataliputra.\n\nFaxian's visit to India occurred during the reign of Chandragupta II. He is also renowned for his pilgrimage to Lumbini, the birthplace of Gautama Buddha (modern Nepal). However, he mentioned nothing about Guptas. Faxian claimed that demons and dragons were the original inhabitants of Sri Lanka.\n\nOn Faxian's way back to China, after a two-year stay in Ceylon, a violent storm drove his ship onto an island, probably Java. After five months there, Faxian took another ship for southern China; but, again, it was blown off course and he ended up landing at Mount Lao in what is now Shandong in northern China, east of the city of Qingdao. He spent the rest of his life translating and editing the scriptures he had collected.\n\nFaxian wrote a book on his travels, filled with accounts of early Buddhism, and the geography and history of numerous countries along the Silk Roads as they were, at the turn of the 5th century CE. He wrote about cities like Magadha, Patliputra, Mathura, city of Kanauj and Middle India. He also wrote that inhabitants of Middle India also eat and dress like China people. He declared Patliputra as a very prosperous city.\n\nHe returned in 412 and settled in what is now Nanjing. In 414 he wrote (or dictated) \"Foguoji\" (\"A Record of Buddhistic Kingdoms\"; also known as \"Faxian's Account\"). He spent the next decade, until his death, translating the Buddhist sutra he had brought with him from India.\n\nThe following is the introduction to a translation of Faxian's work by James Legge:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2167095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2167095", "title": "Flashing arrow", "text": "Flashing arrow\n\nA flashing arrow is a metaphorical audiovisual cue used in films to bring some object or situation that will be referred later, or otherwise used in the advancement of plot, to the attention of the viewers.\n\nThe device is not introduced into the plot or the dialogue, but is something peripheral; however made \"obvious\" (hence the name) by a particular camera shot or background music.\nAn example of this device is a camera close-up in a horror movie that suggests information like danger from an unlocked door. A \"literal\" flashing arrow was used in the 1981 film \"Student Bodies\" to mock this clichéd use. The use of flashing arrows and that particular joke were both mentioned in \"Everything Bad Is Good for You\", where the authors says works that have little use of this and require figuring things out yourself have a more deductive viewer base.\n\nAnother example of a literal flashing arrow can be seen in the \"Ouran High School Host Club\". This device is used several times throughout the anime—for instance in the first episode, a flashing arrow and high-pitched beeping noise indicate a vase that a character breaks later on in that scene.\n\nYet another instance is a cut, situation blank in an action film when the hero is in a difficult-to-escape situation, to a brief shot of the item he will use to save himself.\n\nA form of flashing arrows is used in some video games as well; in these cases, the important object or clue is itself glowing or flashing. However, this use can be forgiven to an extent, as a realistically sized key (for example) would be nearly impossible to see on a standard-sized television set \"without\" some sort of illumination.\n\nA case in point of this can be seen in the film \"Natural Born Killers\" during a scene where the protagonist stabs to death a young woman with a pencil. The pencil shows up in nearly every cut scene before the girl's death.\n\nAnother example of a flashing arrow is used in the film \"Stranger than Fiction\", when the child with the bike and the bus driver appear in numerous scenes, before both of them become a factor in Harold Crick's \"death\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8718012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8718012", "title": "GTN Arts &amp; Science College", "text": "GTN Arts &amp; Science College\n\nGTN Arts & Science College is an arts college located in Dindigul, Tamil Nadu, India.\n\nG.T.N. Arts College is the first creation of the Trust. The foundation stone of the College was laid on 20 January 1964 by the veteran statesman and ardent educationist, the Honorable Sri. M. Bakthavatsalam, the then Chief Minister of Government of Madras.\n\nThe College was formally inaugurated on 2 July 1964. In the first year of inception, the college was affiliated to the University of Madras offering instruction in Pre-University only.\n\nIn April 1965, after the formation of the Madurai University (now Madurai Kamaraj University) this college was affiliated to the Madurai University.\n\nThe college is situated on Karur Road. The RVS School of Engineering and Technology is located nearby. It is an autonomous college under Kamaraj University, Madurai. The college is run by a trust of Soundaraja Mills P Ltd., Dindigul.\n"}
{"id": "51758787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51758787", "title": "Hearst Expedition", "text": "Hearst Expedition\n\nThe Hearst Expedition was an archaeological project led by the University of California to explore burial grounds at and around Qift, Egypt. The expedition spanned the years 1899-1905, and was named for Phoebe Hearst, mother of William Randolph Hearst, the newspaper magnate who funded it. George A. Reisner directed the expedition, and is credited with some of its most important finds, including the stela of Prince Wepemnofret and the Hearst Medical Papyrus.\n"}
{"id": "34093601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34093601", "title": "Justice Party (United States)", "text": "Justice Party (United States)\n\nThe Justice Party USA is a political party in the United States. It was organized in November 2011 by a group of political activists including former Mayor of Salt Lake City Rocky Anderson as an alternative to what he saw as a duopoly of the two major political parties. One of the major goals of the Justice Party is removing corporate influence and other concentrated wealth from politics.\n\nIn December 2011, it became a qualified party in Mississippi, the first state to recognize the party. From a small beginning, 30 persons at the launching event with no TV crew covering it, the party was able to put its founder Rocky Anderson on the ballot in 15 states and secure official write-in status in 15 additional states. It was the fifth largest third party in terms of presidential ballot access in the 2012 presidential election. On October 23, Anderson faced off with other third party candidates Gary Johnson of the Libertarian Party, Jill Stein of the Green Party and Virgil Goode of the Constitution Party for a debate moderated by former CNN talk-show host Larry King. They met again to debate on November 5, this time hosted by Ralph Nader.\n\nThe party released a draft statement endorsing Bernie Sanders for the 2016 Democratic nomination rather than nominating its own candidate, but no official announcement was made.\n\nThe Justice Party was created with the motto \"economic, environmental, and social justice for all\". The party was designed with the intention of shifting government back to a focus on the Constitution by removing corporate influence in politics.\n\nThe Justice Party supports campaign finance reform and does not accept any corporate funding. The Justice Party supports a constitutional amendment to abolish corporate personhood through Move to Amend. The party is in favor of a financial transaction tax, pro-progressive tax structure and wants to end the Bush tax cuts. They support green jobs and infrastructure programs. The Justice Party wants to bolster social security by raising the cap on payroll taxes. It wants to require that banks work with homeowners to stop foreclosures. It is pro-immigration reform, pro-breaking up large banks, pro-reinstating Glass–Steagall, pro-government funded higher education and against subsidies to oil and gas companies.\n\nThe party is for aggressive climate protection. It is against the Keystone Pipeline and advocates transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy. The Justice Party supports a ban on mountaintop removal and wants to strengthen the Environmental Protection Agency.\n\nThe Justice Party supports a universal single payer health system, an equal rights amendment for women, marriage equality, ending wars of aggression, closing many military bases, reducing the budget, immigration reform, repealing the Patriot Act, protecting and rewarding whistleblowers and ending the War on Drugs. The party also seeks to prosecute individuals whose illegal conduct led to the 2008 financial crisis.\n\nIn the 2012 elections, the party had candidates for the following offices:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42589044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42589044", "title": "List of works by Dylan Thomas", "text": "List of works by Dylan Thomas\n\nThis is a list of the works by Welsh poet and writer Dylan Thomas.\n\n\n\nAll produced through Strand Films for the Ministry of Information. Thomas was script writer on all these documentaries and commentator on \"These are the Men\" and \"Our Country\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50086670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50086670", "title": "Manually Annotated Sub-Corpus", "text": "Manually Annotated Sub-Corpus\n\nMASC is a balanced subset of 500K words of written texts and transcribed speech drawn primarily from the Open American National Corpus (OANC). The OANC is a 15 million word (and growing) corpus of American English produced since 1990, all of which is in the public domain or otherwise free of usage and redistribution restrictions.\n\nAll of MASC includes manually validated annotations for logical structure (headings, sections, paragraphs, etc.), sentence boundaries, three different tokenizations with associated part of speech tags, shallow parse (noun and verb chunks), named entities (person, location, organization, date and time), and Penn Treebank syntax. Additional manually produced or validated annotations have been produced by the MASC project for portions of the sub-corpus, including full-text annotation for FrameNet frame elements and a 100K+ sentence corpus with WordNet 3.1 sense tags, of which one-tenth are also annotated for FrameNet frame elements. Annotations of all or portions of the sub-corpus for a wide variety of other linguistic phenomena have been contributed by other projects, including PropBank, TimeBank, MPQA opinion, and several others. Co-reference annotations and clause boundaries of the entire MASC corpus are scheduled to be released by the end of 2016.\n\nWordNet sense annotations for all occurrences of 114 words are also included in the MASC distribution, as well as FrameNet annotations for 50-100 occurrences of each of the 114 words. The sentences with WordNet and FrameNet annotations are also distributed as a part of the MASC Sentence Corpus.\n\nUnlike most freely available corpora including a wide variety of linguistic annotations, MASC contains a balanced selection of texts from a broad range of genres:\n\nAt present, MASC includes seventeen different types of linguistic annotation (* = in production; ** currently available in original format only):\n\nAll MASC annotations, whether contributed or produced in-house, are transduced to the Graph Annotation Format (GrAF) defined by ISO TC37 SC4’s Linguistic Annotation Framework (LAF).\nThe online tool ANC2Go can transduce annotations over all or parts of MASC to any of several other formats, including CONLL IOB format and formats for use in UIMA and General Architecture for Text Engineering.\n\nMASC is an open data resource that can be used by anyone for any purpose. At the same time, it is a collaborative community resource that is sustained by community contributions of annotations and derived data. It is freely downloadable from the MASC download page or through the Linguistic Data Consortium.\n\nMASC is also distributed in part-of-speech-tagged form with the Natural Language Toolkit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9216888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9216888", "title": "Marion True", "text": "Marion True\n\nMarion True (born November 5, 1948) was the former curator of antiquities for the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, California. True was indicted on April 1, 2005, by the Italian court, on criminal charges accusing her of participating in a conspiracy that laundered stolen artifacts through private collections and creating a fake paper trail; the Greeks later followed suit. The trial brought to light many questions about museum administration, repatriation, and ethics.\n\nTrue was born in Tahlequah, Oklahoma in 1948, and grew up in Newburyport, Massachusetts where she developed an interest in Greek Antiquities. True later received a scholarship to study the classics and fine arts at New York University, NYU. True also has a masters degree in classical archaeology from NYU's Institute of Fine Arts, and a PhD from Harvard, where she studied under Emily Dickinson Vermeule. True was trained by Cornelius Clarkson Vermeule III, contemporary scholar of Ancient Art and Curator of Classical Art at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, from 1957 to 1996.\n\nIn 1982, True joined The Getty as a curatorial assistant and later became a curator in 1986. True created a new policy for The Getty in 1987, which required the museum to notify governments when objects were being considered for acquisitions. Under this new policy, if a government could prove an object had been illegally exported, the museum would return it.\n\nIn 1992, True organized a symposium to debate the authenticity of a Greek kouros, which is referred to today as the Getty kouros. The label in the museum reads, \"Greek, 530 BCE or Modern Forgery\". This Kouros was worth $10 million in 1985 when it was acquired, and it is believed to have been looted from southern Italy.\n\nIn 1995, True put in place another acquisition policy that prohibited the museum from acquiring antiquities that lacked thorough documentation, or that had not previously been part of an established collection. Later in 1995, The Getty incorporated the collection of Barbara and Lawrence Fleischman into the museum's collection. During that same year, True obtained a private loan to purchase a vacation home on the Greek Island of Paros; Larry Fleischman offered to loan True the money to repay this loan in 1996. Later, lawyers would question if True and the Fleischmans had a conflict of interest.\n\nIn 2005, True was indicted by the Italian government, along with renowned American antiquities dealer, Robert E. Hecht, for conspiracy to traffic in illicit antiquities. She was accused of participating in a conspiracy that laundered stolen objects through private collection in order to create a fake paper trail that would serve as the items' provenance. The Getty issued statements supporting True, \"We Trust that this trial will result in her exoneration and end further damage to the personal and professional reputation of Dr. True.\" The primary evidence in the case came from the 1995 raid of a Geneva, Switzerland warehouse, which contained a fortune in stolen artifacts. Italian art dealer, Giacomo Medici, was eventually arrested in 1997; his operation was thought to be \"one of the largest and most sophisticated antiquities networks in the world, responsible for illegally digging up and spiriting away thousands of top-drawer pieces and passing them on to the most elite end of the international art market\". Medici was sentenced in 2004, by a court in Rome, to ten years in prison and a fine of 10 million euros, \"the largest penalty ever meted out for antiquities crime in Italy\".\n\nOn October 1, 2005, True resigned from The Getty. In November 2006, The Greek prosecution followed the Italian's lead, charging True with trafficking in looted antiquities due to her involvement in The Getty's purchase of an illicitly excavated golden funerary wreath. On November 20, 2006, the Director of the museum, Michael Brand, announced that 26 disputed pieces were to be returned to Italy.\n\nIn a letter to the J. Paul Getty Trust on December 18, 2006, True stated that she was being made to \"carry the burden\" for practices which were known, approved, and condoned by The Getty's Board of Directors. True testified for the first time in March 2007.\n\nIn September 2007, Italy dropped the civil charges against True. The Getty also announced its plan to return 40 out of 46 objects. On September 26, 2007, Getty Center signed a contract with the Italian Culture ministry in Rome to return stolen arts from Italy. Forty ancient art works would be returned including: the 5th century BC Aphrodite limestone and marble statue, in 2010; fresco paintings stolen from Pompeii; marble and bronze sculptures; and Greek vases.\n\nIn November 2007, the Greek criminal charges against True were dropped as the statute of limitations had expired. The wreath and three other items from the Getty's collection were returned to Greece.\n\nAll charges against True were eventually dismissed. Because the statute of limitations had expired, she was acquitted in 2007 of charges relating to the acquisition of a 2,500-year-old funerary wreath, which was shown to have been looted from northern Greece. The wreath in question had already been returned to Greece. In 2010, an Italian court dismissed the remainder of the charges against her, holding that the statute of limitations has expired.\n\nAphrodite of Morgantina was an acrolithic sculpture acquired by The Getty in 1988, it is a 7-foot-tall, 1,300-pound statue of limestone and marble. The Museum and True ignored the obvious signs that it was looted. It was returned to Morgantina in early March, 2011. It is thought that the sculpture actually portrays Persephone or Demeter, rather than Aphrodite.\n\nThe Golden Wreath was bought by The Getty in 1994 for $1.15 million. True was shown the wreath in a Swiss bank vault before purchasing and determined that it was \"too dangerous\" to purchase, because of its signs of looting. Under the advisement of The Getty's board, True purchased it through Christoph Leon, a Swiss art dealer.\n"}
{"id": "45288105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45288105", "title": "Mark Zuckerberg book club", "text": "Mark Zuckerberg book club\n\nMark Zuckerberg book club aka A Year of Books was an online book club hosted by Mark Zuckerberg through his personal Facebook account started in January 2015. Zuckerberg made a book recommendation every two weeks for a year to his millions of Facebook followers.\n\nZuckerberg came up with the idea as part of his New Year's Resolution for 2015 after Cynthia Greco, the Audience Development Manager for MediaOnePA/York Newspaper Company, suggested that Zuckerberg read a new book every month. Zuckerberg modified the idea to one book every two weeks and books which \"emphasize learning about new cultures, beliefs, histories and technologies.\"\n\n\"The Atlantic\" wrote that it \"has the potential to be Oprahesque in its influence on book sales\", in reference to the Oprah Book Club after the first selection by Moisés Naím caused Amazon's stock to sell out. An article in \"The New Yorker\" made a similar comparison to Oprah. \"The Associated Press\" noted that the second selection by Steven Pinker did not result in any increase in sales according to Nielsen BookScan data.\n\n"}
{"id": "11057677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11057677", "title": "Monopolies of knowledge", "text": "Monopolies of knowledge\n\nMonopolies of knowledge arise when the ruling class maintains political power through control of key communications technologies. This theory suggests that monopolies of knowledge gradually suppress new ways of thinking. Entrenched hierarchies become increasingly rigid and out of touch with social realities. Challenges to elite power are often likely to arise on the margins of society. The arts, for example, are often seen as a means of escape from the sterility of conformist thought.\n\nThe Canadian economic historian Harold Innis developed the concept of monopolies of knowledge in his later writings on communications theories. An example of this occurs in ancient Egypt where a complex writing system conferred a monopoly of knowledge on literate priests and scribes. Mastering the art of writing and reading required long periods of apprenticeship and instruction, confining knowledge to this powerful class.\n\nInnis's warnings about monopolies of knowledge take on particular urgency in the years immediately preceding his death in 1952. In his later writings, he argued that industrialization and mass media had led to the mechanization of a culture in which more personal forms of oral communication were radically devalued. \"Reading is quicker than listening,\" Innis wrote in 1948. \"The printing press and the radio address the world instead of the individual.\"\n\nWhen discussing the monopolies of knowledge, Innis focuses much of his concern on the United States, where he feared that mass-circulation newspapers and magazines along with privately owned broadcasting networks had undermined independent thought and local cultures and rendered audiences passive in the face of what he calls the \"vast monopolies of communication\". James W. Carey notes that Innis worried about the centralized control of information and entertainment by advertising-driven media. \"The very existence of a commodity such as 'information' and an institution called 'media' make each other necessary,\" Carey writes. \"More people spend more time dependent on the journalist, the publisher, and the program director. Every week they wait for \"Time\" [magazine].\"\n\nIn order to fashion his concept of monopolies of knowledge, Innis drew on several fields of study, including economics, history, communications and technology.\n\nIn his 1938 essay, \"The Penetrative Powers of the Price System\", Innis anticipates his later concept of monopolies of knowledge. Although he does not precisely define what he means by the \"price system\", he does show how trade and technology shaped modern industrial economies. Innis suggests, for example, that the shift from coal and iron to oil and electricity had profound implications that no one in industrial societies could escape. He mentions the growth of cities with people living in large apartment buildings made possible by developments in electrical equipment on the one hand, and the dispersal of populations over wide metropolitan areas as a result of the automobile and paved roads, on the other.\n\nThe inhabitants of modern industrial societies even eat differently than their more rural forebears. \"The demands of population in congested areas, under the direction of scientific work in nutrition,\" Innis writes, \"have shifted from carbohydrates to vitamins or from wheat to dairy products, live-stock, fruits and vegetables.\" At the same time, he adds, city dwellers are influenced by cheap, mass-circulation newspapers which peddle political stereotypes along with department store ads. For Innis, the industrial economy monopolizes how people live, work, communicate and think.\n\nInnis's concept of monopolies of knowledge was also influenced by the scholar Solomon Gandz who published a lengthy paper in 1939 on the significance of the oral tradition in the development of civilizations. Gandz advanced the idea that the control of language in the oral tradition was grounded in religious institutions which ensured a civilization's continuity by preserving its traditions. At the same time, however, religious elites often shared their power with political elites who controlled the use of military force, thereby ensuring a civilization's success in conquering and holding territory.\n\nInnis incorporated these ideas in his concept of time-biased and space-biased media. He argued that civilizations and empires flourished when there was a balance between time- and space-biased media. The triumph of one type of medium over the other, however, undermined stability demonstrating that unbalanced monopolies of knowledge could gradually lead to the decline and fall of civilizations and empires. Innis argued this was, in fact, happening to Western civilization which had become dangerously unbalanced partly because of the monopoly of knowledge exercised by space-biased communications technologies such as the daily newspaper. For Innis, the newspaper reflected an obsession with what he termed \"present-mindedness\". Newspapers and the news agencies that served them could transmit large amounts of information over long distances, but this speed of transmission and the emphasis on immediacy obliterated continuity and memory. \"Time,\" Innis wrote, \"has been cut into pieces the length of a day's newspaper.\" The advent of electronic media—radio and later, television—added more speed and immediacy contributing cumulatively to the erasure of cultural memory. Moreover, these space-biased media could be used by political elites to mobilize large populations—as in Nazi Germany—to support disastrous wars of conquest.\n\nInnis placed special emphasis on monopolies of knowledge that are based on the control of written media. \"We can conveniently divide the history of the West into the writing and printing periods,\" he writes in \"Empire and Communications\".\n\n\"The sword and the pen worked together,\" Innis writes. \"The written record signed, sealed, and swiftly transmitted was essential to military power and the extension of government. Small communities were written into large states and states were consolidated into empire.\" Innis adds that the monarchies of Egypt and Persia as well as the Roman empire \"were essentially products of writing.\"\n\nRome's adoption of papyrus facilitated the spread of writing and the growth of bureaucratic administration needed to govern vast territories. The efficiency of the alphabet strengthened monopolies of knowledge in a variety of ancient empires. Innis warns about the power of writing to create mental \"grooves\" which determine \"the channels of thought of readers and later writers.\"\n\nInnis believed that the printing press was a decisive invention in the history of the West. Lewis Mumford pointed out that printing was \"a completely mechanical achievement...the type for all future instruments of reproduction: for the printed sheet...was the first completely standardized product.\" Thus, for Innis, the printing press and the accompanying medium of paper ushered in not just the mechanization that would become characteristic of an industrial society based on mass production, but also the mechanization of knowledge itself. By that, Innis meant that printing led to the production of beliefs and practices that reinforced monopolies of knowledge characteristic of industrial culture.\n\nAn example of this can be seen in the large-scale production of newsprint in the 19th century that had far-reaching effects. Newsprint fostered the development of big newspaper plants that needed larger numbers of readers to deliver to big advertisers such as department stores. Department stores themselves reflected new ways of marketing to rising numbers of city dwellers. To attract more readers, newspaper proprietors began to run comics and to rely on the \"excitement and sensationalism\" of foreign wars. Such coverage influenced British and American foreign policies, sometimes disastrously.\n\nInnis also warned that printed books could produce conformity of thought akin to the regimentation of workers in industrial factories. He repeats the Biblical commandment against worshiping graven images, but suggests that in our unconscious society, this prohibition is not interpreted to apply to the printed word.\n\nAccording to William Kuhns, societies dominated by print media regard only printed knowledge as \"essentially valid.\" Textbook publishers exert a huge influence on education at all levels while schools and universities refuse to accept knowledge in other than printed forms. \"The monopoly of knowledge protects its own with wary vigilance,\" Kuhns writes. Or in Mumford's words, with the advent of the printed book, learning \"became book-learning.\"\n\nPaul Levinson writes that \"[l]iteracy probably constitutes the most significant monopoly of knowledge in human history.\" He adds, however, that in open, democratic societies, public education systems are dedicated to breaking this monopoly by teaching students how to read and write, thereby giving them full access to printed knowledge.\n\nWe can look at the Internet as being a factor in creating knowledge monopolies. Those who have the skills to use the technology have the power to choose what information is communicated. The significance of the Internet in the creation of these monopolies, in more recent years, has been somewhat diminished due to increased knowledge and awareness of how to use the technology. At the same time, the ever-increasing complexity of digital technologies strengthens monopolies of knowledge as the \"New York Times\" points out in a series which began on April 27, 2009, called \"The Digital Arms Race\":\n\n[T]he Pentagon has commissioned military contractors to develop a highly classified replica of the Internet of the future. The goal is to simulate what it would take for adversaries to shut down the country’s power stations, telecommunications and aviation systems, or freeze the financial markets — in an effort to build better defenses against such attacks, as well as a new generation of online weapons. \nWherever new media arise, so too do monopolies of knowledge concerning how to use the technologies to reinforce the power and control of elite groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21008117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21008117", "title": "Muyil", "text": "Muyil\n\nMuyil (also known as Chunyaxché) was one of the earliest and longest inhabited ancient Maya sites on the eastern coast of the Yucatan Peninsula. It is located approximately south of the coastal site of Tulum, in the Municipality of Felipe Carrillo Puerto in the state of Quintana Roo, Mexico. Artifacts found here date back from as early as 350 BCE. to as late as 1200-1500 CE. The ruins of Muyil are an example of Peten architecture, like those found in southern Mayan sites with their steep walled pyramids such as Tikal in Guatemala. It is situated on the Sian Ka'an lagoon, a name meaning \"Where the Sky is Born\". Muyil was located along a trade route on the Caribbean once accessible via a series of canals. Among the most commonly traded goods were Jade, obsidian, chocolate, honey, feathers, chewing gum, and salt. It is believed that throughout much of its history, Muyil had strong ties to the center of Coba located some the north / northwest. The 2010 federal census reported a population of 191 inhabitants in the locality.\n\n"}
{"id": "7863840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7863840", "title": "National Glass Workers' Trade Protection Association", "text": "National Glass Workers' Trade Protection Association\n\nThe National Glass Workers' Trade Protection Association was a trade union in the United Kingdom. It merged with the Transport and General Workers' Union in 1940.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5416552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5416552", "title": "Natura naturata", "text": "Natura naturata\n\nNatura naturata is a Latin term coined in the Middle Ages, mainly used later by Baruch Spinoza meaning \"Nature natured\", or \"Nature already created\". The term adds the suffix for the Latin feminine past participle (\"-ata\") to the verb \"naturo\", to create \"natured\". The term describes a passive God, or more specifically, the passivity of God (substance) when it is predicated into modes, and is contrasted with the second part of Spinoza's dichotomy, \"natura naturans\", meaning \"nature naturing\", or \"nature in the active sense\". \n\nThe distinction is expressed in Spinoza's \"Ethics\" as follows:\n[B]y \"Natura naturans\" we must understand what is in itself and is conceived through itself, \"or\" such attributes of substance as express an eternal and infinite essence, that is … God, insofar as he is considered as a free cause. <br> But by \"Natura naturata\" I understand whatever follows from the necessity of God's nature, \"or\" from God's attributes, that is, all the modes of God's attributes insofar as they are considered as things which are in God, and can neither be nor be conceived without God.\n"}
{"id": "14463933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14463933", "title": "Outline of ancient history", "text": "Outline of ancient history\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to ancient history:\n\nAncient history – study of \"recorded\" human history from the beginning of writing at about 3000 BC until the Early Middle Ages. The times \"before writing\" belong either to protohistory or to prehistory. The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 – 5,500 years, beginning with Sumerian cuneiform, the oldest form of writing discovered so far. Although the ending date of ancient history is disputed, currently most Western scholars use the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD or the coming of Islam in 632 AD as the end of ancient history.\n\nAncient history can be described as all of the following:\n\n\nPeriods in the Ancient Western world\n\n\nAncient African history\n\nAncient Asia\n\nAncient Europe\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAncient culture\n\nAncient architecture\n\nAncient art\n\n\nAncient language\n\nAncient literature\n\n\nAncient philosophy\n\nAncient religion\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAncient warfare\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1272919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1272919", "title": "Philhellenism", "text": "Philhellenism\n\nPhilhellenism (\"the love of Greek culture\") and philhellene (\"the admirer of Greeks and everything Greek\"), from the Greek \"philos\" \"friend, lover\" and \"hellenism\" \"Greek\", was an intellectual fashion prominent mostly at the turn of the 19th century. It contributed to the sentiments that led Europeans such as Lord Byron or Charles Nicolas Fabvier to advocate for Greek independence from the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe later 19th-century European philhellenism was largely to be found among the Classicists.\n\nIn antiquity, the term 'philhellene' (, from \"φίλος\" - \"philos\", \"dear one, friend\" + \"Έλλην\" - \"Hellen\", \"Greek\") was used to describe both non-Greeks who were fond of Greek culture and Greeks who patriotically upheld their culture. The Liddell-Scott Greek-English Lexicon defines 'philhellen' as \"fond of the Hellenes, mostly of foreign princes, as Amasis; of Parthian kings[...]; also of Hellenic tyrants, as Jason of Pherae and generally of Hellenic (Greek) patriots.\n\nSome examples:\n\nThe literate upper classes of Rome were increasingly Hellenized in their culture during the 3rd century BC.\nAmong Romans the career of Titus Quinctius Flamininus (died 174 BC), who appeared at the Isthmian Games in Corinth in 196 BC and proclaimed the freedom of the Greek states, was fluent in Greek, stood out, according to Livy, as a great admirer of Greek culture; the Greeks hailed him as their liberator. There were however, some Romans during the late Republic, who were distinctly anti-Greek, resenting the increasing influence of Greek culture on Roman life, an example being the Roman Censor, Cato the Elder and also Cato the Younger who lived during the \"Greek invasion\" of Rome but towards the later years of his life he eventually became a philhellene after his stay in Rhodes.\n\nThe lyric poet Quintus Horatius Flaccus was another philhellene. He is notable for his words, \"Graecia capta ferum victorem cepit et artis intulit agresti Latio\" (Conquered Greece took captive her savage conqueror and brought her arts into rustic Latium), meaning that after the conquest of Greece the defeated Greeks created a cultural hegemony over the Romans.\n\nRoman emperors known for their philhellenism include Nero, Hadrian, Marcus Aurelius and Julian the Apostate.\n\nIn the period of political reaction and repression after the fall of Napoleon, when the liberal-minded, educated and prosperous middle and upper classes of European societies found the romantic revolutionary ideals of 1789–92 repressed by the restoration of old regimes at home, the idea of the re-creation of a Greek state on the very territories that were sanctified by their view of Antiquity—which was reflected even in the furnishings of their own parlors and the contents of their bookcases—offered an ideal, set at a romantic distance. Under these conditions, the Greek uprising constituted a source of inspiration and expectations that could never actually be fulfilled, disappointing what Paul Cartledge called \"the Victorian self-identification with the Glory that was Greece\". American higher education was fundamentally transformed by the rising admiration of and identification with ancient Greece in the 1830s and afterward.\n\nAnother popular subject of interest in Greek culture at the turn of the 19th century was the shadowy Scythian philosopher Anacharsis, who lived in the 6th century BCE. The new prominence of Anacharsis was sparked by Jean-Jacques Barthélemy's fanciful \"Travels of Anacharsis the Younger in Greece\" (1788), a learned imaginary travel journal, one of the first historical novels, which a modern scholar has called \"the encyclopedia of the new cult of the antique\" in the late 18th century. It had a high impact on the growth of philhellenism in France: the book went through many editions, was reprinted in the United States and was translated into German and other languages. It later inspired European sympathy for the Greek War of Independence and spawned sequels and imitations throughout the 19th century.\n\nIn German culture the first phase of philhellenism can be traced in the careers and writings of Johann Joachim Winckelmann, one of the inventors of art history, Friedrich August Wolf, who inaugurated modern Homeric scholarship with his \"Prolegomena ad Homerum\" (1795) and the enlightened bureaucrat Wilhelm von Humboldt. It was also in this context that Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Hölderlin were to compose poetry and prose in the field of literature, elevating Hellenic themes in their works. In the German states, the private obsession with ancient Greece took public forms, institutionalizing an elite philhellene ethos through the \"Gymnasium\", to revitalize German education at home, and providing on two occasions high-minded philhellene German princes ignorant of modern-day Greek realities, to be Greek sovereigns.\n\nDuring the later 19th century the new studies of archaeology and anthropology began to offer a quite separate view of ancient Greece, which had previously been experienced at second-hand only through Greek literature, Greek sculpture and architecture. 20th century heirs of the 19th-century view of an unchanging, immortal quality of \"Greekness\" are typified in J.C. Lawson's \"Modern Greek Folklore and Ancient Greek Religion\" (1910) or R. and E. Blum's \"The Dangerous Hour: The lore of crisis and mystery in rural Greece\" (1970); according to the Classicist Paul Cartledge, they \"represent this ideological construction of Greekness as an essence, a Classicizing essence to be sure, impervious to such historic changes as that from paganism to Orthodox Christianity, or from subsistence peasant agriculture to more or less internationally market-driven capitalist farming.\"\n\nThe Philhellenic movement led to the introduction of Classics or \"Classical studies\" as a key element in education, introduced in the Gymnasien in Prussia. In England the main proponent of Classics in schools was Thomas Arnold, headmaster at Rugby School.\n\nThe theme of Nikos Dimou's \"The Misfortune to be Greek\" is the perception that the Philhellenic West's projected desire for the modern Greeks to live up to their ancestors' glorious past has always been a burden upon the Greeks themselves. In particular, Western Philhellenism focused exclusively on the heritage of Classical Greek history, in effect negating or rejecting the heritage of Byzantine history which for the Greeks themselves is at least as important.\n\nPhilhellenism also created a renewed interest in the artistic movement of Neoclassicism, which idealized 5th-century Classical Greek art and architecture., very much at second hand, through the writings of the first generation of art historians, like Johann Joachim Winckelmann and Gotthold Ephraim Lessing.\n\nThe groundswell of the Philhellenic movement was result of two generations of intrepid artists and amateur treasure-seekers, from Stuart and Revett, who published their measured drawings as \"The Antiquities of Athens\" and culminating with the removal of sculptures from Aegina and the Parthenon (the Elgin marbles), works that ravished the British Philhellenes, many of whom, however, deplored their removal.\n\nMany well known philhellenes supported the Greek Independence Movement such as Shelley, Thomas Moore, Leigh Hunt, Cam Hobhouse, Walter Savage Landor and Jeremy Bentham. \nSome, notably Lord Byron, even took up arms to join the Greek revolutionaries. Many more financed the revolution or contributed through their artistic work.\n\nThroughout the 19th century, philhellenes continued to support Greece politically and militarily. For example, Ricciotti Garibaldi led a volunteer expedition (\"Garibaldini\") in the Greco-Turkish War of 1897. A group of Garibaldini, headed by the Greek poet Lorentzos Mavilis, fought also with the Greek side during the Balkan Wars.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7086283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7086283", "title": "Plain Folk of the Old South", "text": "Plain Folk of the Old South\n\nPlain Folk of the Old South is a 1949 book by Vanderbilt University historian Frank Lawrence Owsley, one of the Southern Agrarians. In it he used statistical data to analyze the makeup of Southern society, contending that yeoman farmers made up a larger middle class than was generally thought.\n\nHistorians have long debated the social, economic, and political roles of Southern classes. Terms used by scholars for the non-elite class include \"common people\" and \"yeomen.\" At a lower status level are the poor whites known disparagingly, in some areas of the South, as \"Crackers.\"\n\nIn the colonial and antebellum years, subsistence farmers tended to settle in the back country and uplands. They generally did not raise commodity crops and owned few or no slaves. Jeffersonian and Jacksonian Democrats favored the term \"yeoman\" for a land-owning farmer. It emphasized an independent political spirit and economic self-reliance.\n\nNortherners such as Frederick Law Olmsted, who traveled in and wrote about the 1850s South, through the early 20th-century historians such as William E. Dodd and Ulrich B. Phillips, assessed common southerners as minor players in antebellum social, economic, and political life of the South.\n\nTwentieth-century romantic portrayals of the antebellum South, such as Margaret Mitchell's novel \"Gone with the Wind\" (1936) and the 1939 film adaptation, mostly ignored the yeomen. The nostalgic view of the South emphasized the elite planter class of wealth and refinement, controlling large plantations and numerous slaves.\n\nNovelist Erskine Caldwell's \"Tobacco Road\" portrayed the degraded condition of whites dwelling beyond the great plantations.\n\nThe major challenge to the view of planter dominance came from historian Frank Lawrence Owsley in \"Plain Folk of the Old South\" (1949). His work ignited a long historiographical debate. Owsley started with the work of Daniel R. Hundley, who in 1860 had defined the southern middle class as \"farmers, planters, traders, storekeepers, artisans, mechanics, a few manufacturers, a goodly number of country school teachers, and a host of half-fledged country lawyers, doctors, parsons, and the like\". To find these people, Owsley turned to the name-by-name files on the manuscript federal census. Using their own newly invented codes, the Owsleys created databases from the manuscript federal census returns, tax and trial records, and local government documents and wills. They gathered data on all southerners. Historian Vernon Burton described Owsley's \"Plain Folk of the Old South\", as \"one of the most influential works on southern history ever written\".\n\n\"Plain Folk\" argued that southern society was not dominated by planter aristocrats, but that yeoman farmers played a significant role in it. The religion, language, and culture of these common people created a democratic \"plain folk\" society. Critics say Owsley overemphasized the size of the southern landholding middle class, while excluding the large class of poor whites who owned neither land nor slaves. Owsley believed that shared economic interests united southern farmers; critics suggest the vast difference in economic classes between the elite and subsistence farmers meant they did not have the same values or outlook.\n\nIn his study of Edgefield County, South Carolina, Orville Vernon Burton classified white society into the poor, the yeoman middle class, and the elite. A clear line demarcated the elite, but according to Burton, the line between poor and yeoman was less distinct. Stephanie McCurry argues that yeomen were clearly distinguished from poor whites by their ownership of land (real property). Yeomen were \"self-working farmers\", distinct from the elite because they physically labored on their land alongside any slaves they owned. Planters with numerous slaves had work that was essentially managerial, and often they supervised an overseer rather than the slaves themselves.\n\nWetherington (2005) argues the plain folk (of Georgia) supported secession to defend their families, homes, and notions of white liberty. During the war, the established patriarchy continued to control the home front and kept it functioning, even though growing numbers of plain folk joined the new wartime poor. Wetherington suggests that their localism and racism dovetailed with a republican ideology founded on Jeffersonian notions of an \"economically independent yeomanry sharing common interests\". Plain folk during the war raised subsistence crops and vegetables and relied on a free and open range to hunt hogs. Examples of these conditions can be seen in the award-winning novel \"Cold Mountain\".\n\nBefore the war, they became more active in the cotton and slave markets, but plain folk remained unwilling to jeopardize their self-sufficiency and the stability of their neighborhoods for the economic interests of planters. The soldiers had their own reasons for fighting. First and foremost, they sought to protect hearth and home from Yankee threats. White supremacy and masculinity depended on slavery, which Lincoln's Republicans threatened. Plain-folk concepts of masculinity explain why so many men enlisted: they wanted to be worthy of the privileges of men, including the affections of female patriots. By March 1862, the piney woods region of Georgia had a 60% enlistment rate, comparable to that found in planter areas.\n\nAs the war dragged on, hardship became a way of life. Wetherington reports that enough men remained home to preserve the paternalistic social order, but there were too few to prevent mounting deprivation. Wartime shortages increased the economic divide between planters and yeoman farmers; nevertheless, some planters took seriously their paternalistic obligations by selling their corn to plain folk at the official Confederate rate \"out of a spirit of patriotism.\" Wetherington's argument weakens other scholars' suggestions that class conflict led to Confederate defeat. More damaging to Confederate nationalism was the growing localism that grew, as areas had to fend for themselves as William Tecumseh Sherman's forces came nearer.\n\nDuring Reconstruction Era after the war, plain folk split. Most supported the conservative (or Democratic Party) position, but some were \"Scalawags\" who supported the Republicans for a while.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41375336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41375336", "title": "Politics of New England", "text": "Politics of New England\n\nThe politics of New England has long been defined by the region's political and cultural history, demographics, economy, and its loyalty to particular U.S. political parties. Within the politics of the United States, New England is sometimes viewed in terms of a single voting bloc. Of the twenty-one congressional districts in New England, twenty are currently represented by Democrats. In the Senate, nine Democrats, two Independents (both of whom caucus with Democrats), and one Republican represent New England. The Democratic candidate has won a plurality of votes in every State in New England in every presidential election since 2004, making the region considerably more Democratic than the rest of the nation.\n\nSame-sex marriage is permitted in all six New England states, with Rhode Island being the final state to legalise the practice in May 2013. In Maine, it was legalized by the legislature in 2009, but defeated in a referendum (53% voted to ban it versus 47% who voted to legalize it) later the same year. On January 26, 2012, supporters of a ballot initiative to repeal that decision obtained sufficient petition signatures to ensure the initiative appeared on the November 2012 ballot, where the initiative won 53–47.\n\nThe national U.S. movement against nuclear power had its roots in New England in the 1970s. In 1974, activist Sam Lovejoy toppled a weather tower at the site of the proposed Montague Nuclear Power Plant in Western Massachusetts. The movement \"reached critical mass\" with the arrests at Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant on May 1, 1977, when 1,414 anti-nuclear activists from the Clamshell Alliance were arrested at the Seabrook site. Harvey Wasserman, a Clamshell spokesman at Seabrook, and Frances Crowe of Northampton, an American Friends Service Committee member, played key roles in the movement.\n\nThe New England states abolished the death penalty for robbery and burglary in the 19th century, before much of the rest of the U.S.A. As of 2012, New Hampshire is the only state in New England that has retained capital punishment. Although New Hampshire currently has one death row inmate, it has not held an execution since 1939.\n\nConnecticut and Rhode Island were the only states in the union not to ratify the Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, also known as prohibition. Prohibition became the law of the land on January 16, 1919.\n\nNew Hampshire has no seatbelt law for persons over 18 years of age, no helmet law for motorcyclists, no mandatory auto-insurance law, and has neither an income tax nor a sales tax.\n\nVermont, Maine and New Hampshire allow both the open and concealed carrying of a firearm without a permit.\n\nMassachusetts passed a ballot initiative (question 3) in the November 2012 election that legalized medical marijuana, effective January 1, 2013. Only people with debilitating diseases such as cancer, Parkinson's disease, or Alzheimer's can obtain a medical marijuana card. Massachusetts became the 18th state in the U.S.A. to legalize the medical use of marijuana. Similar laws are also in place in four other New England States.\n\nSame-sex marriage is legal or has been legalized in all of the New England states: Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont, as well as in the neighboring state of New York. The New England region has been noted for being the nucleus of the same-sex marriage movement in the United States, with the region having among the most widespread and earliest legal support of any region. In 2004, Massachusetts became the first state in the United States to legalize same-sex marriage, to be followed by three more states between October 2008 and June 2009. This followed Vermont being the first-in-the-nation with civil unions in 2000. Before the 2012 election, California (2008), Iowa (2009), New York (2011) and the District of Columbia (2010) had been the only U.S. jurisdictions outside New England to have performed same-sex marriages, though same-sex marriages in California had been halted following the passage of Proposition 8.\n\nThe legalization of same-sex marriage was part of a campaign which began in November 2008, called Six by Twelve, and was organized by the Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) to legalize same-sex marriage in all six New England states by 2012.\n\nThe region holds a number of firsts on same-sex marriage: Vermont was the first state to enact it through legislative means and not because of a judicial ruling, and Maine was the first state to have a governor sign a same-sex marriage bill that was not the result of a court decision. Maine's first gay marriage law was repealed through a people's veto, but three years later, on November 6, 2012, the question was put to voters a second time, and Maine became one of three first US states to approve same-sex marriage at the ballot box, along with Washington and Maryland.\n\nWith Rhode Island legalizing same sex marriage, all New England states have same-sex marriage. There have been numerous reasons given for why New England has found such strong legal recognition for same-sex marriages in comparison to the rest of the United States.\n\nThere were four targets of the anti-nuclear movement since 1974. As a result, Montague Nuclear was cancelled. Yankee Rowe closed prematurely for engineering inadequacies. Vermont Yankee was closed because it became uncompetitive. Seabrook remains operational.\n\nOn February 22, 1934, Sam Lovejoy took a crowbar to the weather-monitoring tower which had been erected at the Montague Nuclear Power Plant site. Lovejoy fell from the tower. He turned himself in to the local police. He presented a statement in which he took responsibility for the action. Lovejoy's action galvanized local public opinion against the plant. The Montague nuclear power plant proposal was canceled in 1980, after $29 million was spent on the project.\n\nSeabrook power plant was proposed as a twin-reactor plant in 1972, at an estimated cost of $973 million. It received a commercial license in March 1990 for one reactor which cost $6.5 billion. Over a period of thirteen years more than 4,000 citizens, many associated with the Clamshell Alliance anti-nuclear group, committed non-violent civil disobedience at Seabrook:\n\nThe New England Coalition (NEC) is an educational non-profit organization based in Brattleboro, Vermont. Historically, it has been part of the anti-nuclear movement in the United States. The NEC is primarily concerned with legal action more than protests. It was involved in both legal action and protests about the Yankee Rowe Nuclear Power Plant prior to its shut down in 1992, and has been involved in legal action and protests over extending the license to operate at the Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant.\n\nIn February 2010, the Vermont Senate voted 26 to 4 against allowing the PSB to consider re-certifying the Vermont Yankee Nuclear Plant after 2012, citing radioactive tritium leaks, misstatements in testimony by plant officials, a cooling tower collapse in 2007, and other problems. In January 2012, Entergy won a court case to invalidate the state's veto power on continued operation.\n\nThere were a number of anti-nuclear protests about Vermont Yankee since the 1970s. These included protests following the Japanese Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011 and on the date of the original operating license expiry in March 2012. On August 28, 2013 the company said economic factors, notably the low cost of electricity caused by cheap natural gas, would result in the company's decommissioning the plant in the fourth quarter of 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2525000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2525000", "title": "Poor White (novel)", "text": "Poor White (novel)\n\nPoor White is an American novel by Sherwood Anderson, published in 1920.\n\nIt is the story of an inventor, Hugh McVey, who rises from poverty on the bank of the Mississippi River. The novel shows the influence of industrialism on the rural heartland of America.\n\n"}
{"id": "3088706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088706", "title": "Project SHAMROCK", "text": "Project SHAMROCK\n\nProject SHAMROCK, considered to be the sister project for Project MINARET, was an espionage exercise started in August 1945, that involved the accumulation of all telegraphic data entering into or exiting from the United States. The Armed Forces Security Agency (AFSA) and its successor, the National Security Agency (NSA), were given direct access to daily microfilm copies of all incoming, outgoing, and transiting telegrams via the Western Union and its associates RCA and ITT. NSA did the operational interception, and, if information that would be of interest to other intelligence agencies was found, the material was passed to them. \"Intercepted messages were disseminated to the FBI, CIA, Secret Service, Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs (BNDD), and the Department of Defense.\" No court authorized the operation and there were no warrants.\n\nThe precursor to the project according to Budiansky occurred in 1940, \"In January 1940 the Army's adjutant general sent a letter to the president of RCA, David Sarnoff, asking if a Lieutenant Earle F. Cook might be assigned to the company...\" Cook photographed all international commercial cablegrams. \"The clandestine arrangement—almost certainly illegal—set a precedent...\" Official wartime censorship began in Dec. 1940, when all cables were \"turned over to the government for inspection.\" According to Tordella, \"the collection program 'just ran on' ever since its beginning in World War II 'without a great deal of attention from anyone'...\" Three major cable companies provided copies of all international telegrams passing through New York, Washington, and San Francisco. In the 1950s, \"New Shamrock\" tapped the links of 60–70 foreign embassies.\n\nAt the height of Project SHAMROCK, 150,000 messages a month were printed and analyzed by NSA personnel.\n\nIn May 1975 however, Congressional critics began to investigate and expose the program. As a result, NSA director Lew Allen terminated it, on his own authority rather than that of other intelligence agencies. According to Budiansky, a 1977 US Deparment of Justice review concluded wiretap laws were violated, but \"If the intelligence agencies possessed too much discretionary authority with too little accountability, that would seem to be a 35-year failing of Presidents and the Congress rather than the agencies or their personnel.\"\n\nThe testimony of both the representatives from the cable companies and of director Allen at the hearings prompted Senate Intelligence Committee chairman Senator Frank Church to conclude that Project SHAMROCK was \"probably the largest government interception program affecting Americans ever undertaken.\"\n\nOne result of these investigations was the 1978 creation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) which limited the powers of the NSA and put in place a process of warrants and judicial review. Another internal safeguard, was United States Signals Intelligence Directive 18 (USSID 18), an internal NSA and intelligence community set of procedures, originally issued in 1980.\n\nUSSID 18 was the general guideline for handling signal intelligence SIGINT inadvertently collected on US citizens, without a warrant, prior to the George W. Bush Administration. The post-Clinton era interpretations of FISA and USSID 18's principles assume that the executive branch has unitary authority for warrantless surveillance. This assertion came under congressional investigation as an apparent violation of FISA's intent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5638040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5638040", "title": "Prosopography of Anglo-Saxon England", "text": "Prosopography of Anglo-Saxon England\n\nThe Prosopography of Anglo-Saxon England (PASE) is a database and associated website that aims to collate everything that was written in contemporary records about anyone who lived in Anglo-Saxon England, in a prosopography. The PASE online database presents details (which it calls factoids) of the lives of every recorded individual who lived in, or was closely connected with, Anglo-Saxon England from 597 to 1087, with specific citations to (and often quotations from) each primary source describing each factoid.\n\nPASE was funded by the British Arts and Humanities Research Council from 2000 to 2008 as a major research project based at King's College London in the Department of History and the Centre for Computing in the Humanities, and at the Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic, University of Cambridge.\n\nThe first phase of the project was launched at the British Academy on the 27 May 2005 and is freely available on the Internet at www.pase.ac.uk. A second phase (PASE2), released on 10 August 2010, added information drawn chiefly from the Domesday Book to the database.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37527148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37527148", "title": "Psychology of film", "text": "Psychology of film\n\nThe psychology of film is a sub-field of the psychology of art that studies the characteristics of film and its production in relation to perception, cognition, narrative understanding, and emotion. A growing number of psychological scientists and brain scientists have begun conducting empirical studies that describe the cognitive and biological underpinnings of motion pictures or what has been called \"psychocinematics\". Early theoretical approaches included works by psychologists Hugo Münsterberg and Rudolf Arnheim. Cognitive film theorists David Bordwell and Noël Carroll fostered its philosophical underpinnings.\n\nFilm is rather unusual as it involves an integration of visual and auditory stimuli. In narrative films, plots are guided by camera placement and movement, dialogue, sound effects, and editing. Some aspects of film are driven by bottom-up or sensory guided factors (such as light, motion or sound), whereas other aspects depend more on top-down or conceptually driven factors, like past experiences and internal motivations.\n\nCuts and flashbacks represent types of editing that alter the normal temporal sequencing of events, creating non-linear narrative structures. Editing creates the transition between events. Research focusing on recall ability for linear versus non-linear narratives suggests that temporal changes impact memory of events, but not comprehension.\n\nFilm cuts are instantaneous, perceptual, and sometimes temporal discontinuities that do not exist in our own realities. However, despite this, viewers accept cuts as a natural storytelling technique in film. Even though we see reality in a continuous flow of linked images, in movies, cuts seem to work, regardless of how experienced a viewer is. Walter Murch suggests that this is because viewers are in fact used to cuts in their everyday lives through the act of blinking. When you turn to look at an object, for example, you normally blink, thus creating a visual break in continuity between what you \"were\" looking at and what you are now looking at. Another possibility that Murch explores to explain humans’ innate acceptance of film cuts is the way in which we dream. Our dreams tend to jump around from place to place and situation to situation without any real sense of continuity. Thus the oneiric nature of films is familiar to viewers and allows them to innately understand the editing despite discontinuities.\n\nSchwan & Ildirar (2010), who focused solely on inexperienced viewers’ ability to comprehend film, found that the comprehensibility of films was determined by whether or not they followed a familiar line of action. Overall, our brains accept the perceptual discontinuities found in films, but it is ultimately easier for viewers, regardless of their experience, to understand cuts that follow a continuous and familiar line of action as opposed to ones that are more discontinuous. When a familiar line is not present, more experienced viewers are significantly better at comprehending a complex narrative by “filtering” out editing discontinuities. In the end, however, montage linearity that creates temporal continuity is more important than plot for recall and understanding of a narrative’s events.\n\nCognitive neuroscience research demonstrates that some movies can exert considerable control over brain activity and eye movements. Studying the neuroscience of film is based on the hypothesis that some films, or film segments, lead viewers through a similar sequence of perceptual, emotional and cognitive states. Using fMRI brain imaging, researchers asked participants to watch 30 minutes of The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (1966) as they lay on their backs in the MRI scanner. Despite the seemingly uncontrolled task and complex nature of the stimulus, brain activity was similar across viewers’ brains, particularly in spatiotemporal areas. When compared to a random sequence of scenes, the specific order of events seemed to be strongly associated with this similarity in brain activity. It was also determined that the level of control a movie has on someone’s mental state is highly dependent upon the cinematic devices (pans, cuts and close-ups) it contains. Tightly edited films exert more control on brain activity and eye-movement than open-ended films. However, similar eye-movement and similarity in visual processing does not guarantee similar brain responses. In addition, the average correlation in taste between individual viewers is rather low and not well predicted by film critics.\n\nViewing spaces on screen from a stable point of view is important for short-term spatial coding and long term spatial memory. Long-time viewers of the television show \"Friends\" were significantly better at accurately recalling spatial information about the show's set, because the camera never moves away from the \"fourth wall\". Equally experienced viewers of the show \"E.R.\" were less likely to recall information about the set and be able to mentally orient themselves inside it, because the show is filmed from many different angles.\n\nIn one study, observers were instructed to look at short movies involving changes in point of view. They used 15 movie clips featuring a handbag, whose properties (color, position, identity, and shape) were manipulated across cuts. Observers' reactions were recorded by examining eye-movement, changes in behavior and memory performance. The researchers later asked the observers if they had noticed anything unusual occur during the clips, without directly referring to the handbag. Changing the position of objects, i.e. the handbag, between scenes was the only variable that did not appear to affect eye-movement or memory. Overall, observers were more likely to draw their attention and look sooner at the handbag-stimulus at the moment right after its properties changed. When specifically asked about it, they were more likely to describe the handbag in terms of its post-cut properties, after a change had occurred. Even though their visual system appeared to pick up on the changes, observers were not consciously aware of them or able to report noticeable differences across cuts. The results illustrate that observers construct and maintain internal visual representations of complex visual environments while viewing dynamic scenes. This also helps explain why movie viewers usually are not aware of continuity errors in editing.\n\nCinematic techniques are often regarded as grammatical structures or components of the cinematic art as a language made up of images. \nA period of visual adaptation is necessary before being able to understand images in movies or on television. Viewers need sufficient exposure to cinematic techniques and the meanings attributed to them to adequately interpret the images on the screen. At a very young age, we learn how to watch videos and understand different editing techniques. One study looked at adult participants who had very little exposure to film to see if they were able to understand simple editing techniques, such as point of view shots, establishing shots, pan shots, shot/reverse shot, ellipsis of time, and cross-cutting. These viewers were able to understand some of the techniques, such as ellipses of time; however, more complex techniques, like shot/reverse shot were more difficult for them to understand.\n\nSome filmmaking techniques derive meaning through past experiences or ideologies that influence the way viewers see certain images or sequence of images. An example of this would be how camera angles can affect our perception of what is occurring on screen. Low angle shots in which the camera is pointed up at a subject tend to make the subject appear more powerful or stronger. While high angle shots can make a subject appear weaker. These interpretations of camera angles, however, ultimately derive from the notion that bigger is better. The lateral movement of a subject across the screen can also influence an audience's interpretation of the subject. For example, characters that move from left-to-right are perceived more positively than characters who move right-to-left. This partiality toward rightward movement likely has its roots in the predominance of right-handedness in society, as well as the practice of reading left-to-right in Western languages.\n\nOne study compiled data on the changing trends in techniques by examining 160 English-language films released from 1935-2010. The findings demonstrate that over time shot lengths have become shorter, while the shorter the shot the more motion it is likely to contain. In addition, contemporary films have significantly more motion and movement than older ones. Motion is the optical change created by moving objects, people, and shadows; movement is that change created by camera motion or gradual lens change.\nPresumably, the film industry has capitalized on the results of previous psychological research that shows motion and the onset of motion capture our attention.\nFinally, films have become darker over time, as the overall brightness of the images on the movie screen has decreased.\n\nThese changes in film-making choices increase attention manipulation and are thought to facilitate comprehension.\n\nTop-down factors refer to expectations and background knowledge that influence viewers' perception, understanding and appreciation of film. Expertise, attention and eye-movements are top-down factors that guide how viewers experience film.\n\nExplicit awareness about the processes by which meaning is created by the visual media could be regarded as one measure of film expertise and sophistication. Increased awareness of the subtle techniques employed by filmmakers to “manipulate” audiences leads to increased admiration and aesthetic responses to film, as in other forms of visual art. \nResearchers have identified a strong relationship between prior film experience and conscious awareness of visual manipulations, especially for people with practical experience in production.\n\nOne study compared the participants’ ability to understand narrative in Hollywood versus experimental film, by measuring interpretational awareness. Subjects with significant, moderate and no formal background or experience in film viewed a film that contained both scenes with Hollywood-style and experimental-style editing. Regardless of expertise level, participants described the Hollywood-like scenes in “naturalistic terms,” as if their events had occurred in reality and tended not to make explicit references to stylistic techniques. This interpretational tendency reflects Hollywood’s “invisible style.” When describing the experimental scenes, inexperienced viewers struggled to construct a cohesive “naturalistic” narrative. More experienced viewers were more likely to make explicit reference to the “breaking of conventions” and the intentions behind them.\n\nFilm editing seems to be a barrier of awareness for conventional Hollywood-type movies, as they create an illusion of “real life”.\n\nSegmentation or event segmentation is a fundamental component of attention that facilitates understanding, object recognition and planning. Event segmentation constitutes breaking down dynamic scenes into spatial and temporal parts or units of events.\n\nEvent segmentation is viewed as “the brain’s cutting-room floor.” \nIt is considered to be an automatic and ongoing process that depends on meaningful changes in a perceived situation. To test this, researchers measured brain activity while participants viewed an extended narrative film. They used MRI scanning to show transient evoked brain responses (changes in brain activity) at those points they identified as event boundaries (changes in situation). Situational changes were coded frame by frame into spatial, temporal, object, character, causal and goal changes. Participants were then instructed to perform an event segmentation task by watching a movie and pressing a button to identify units of activity that were natural and meaningful to them. Paying attention to situational changes gives rise to a neural cascade that is consciously perceived at the end of one event and the beginning of another.\n\nAccording to Event Segmentation Theory (EST), the perception of event boundaries is a side effect of prediction during ongoing perception. Prediction is an adaptive mechanism made up of cognitive event models that represent “what is going on now” to create expectations and attentive biases for ongoing processing. Prediction errors occur at situational changes and cause information processing segmentation.\n\nBroader narrative comprehension theories have also been applied to the perception and memory of movies. This reflects the hypothesis that the same mechanisms are used to understanding stories and real life. In one study, researchers illustrated the common episodic structure between text and film, by asking participants to match a constructed text story to the dialogueless movie The Red Balloon. This task required participants to locate episodes and their components within the cinematic story: exposition, complication and resolution.\n\nUsing an eyetracker, researchers have discovered a strong center-of-screen bias with a distribution of gaze points approximately peaking at the screen center. However, eye gazes rarely focus on the same location. Visual dispersion across the screen increases over time and particularly, after repeated exposure to the same video stimulus. Because of this, there is greater gaze dispersion when viewers are watching advertisements compared to a television show.\n\n"}
{"id": "22851993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22851993", "title": "Religious Studies Center", "text": "Religious Studies Center\n\nThe Religious Studies Center (RSC) is the research and publishing arm of Religious Education at Brigham Young University (BYU), sponsoring scholarship on Latter-day Saint (LDS) culture, history, scripture, and doctrine. The dean of Religious Education serves as the RSC's director, and an associate dean oversees the two branches of the RSC: research and publications.\n\nThe RSC (sometimes called the Center for Religious Studies in its early years) was founded in 1975 by Jeffrey R. Holland, dean of Religious Education at BYU. Upon the recommendation of List of presidents of Brigham Young University}BYU president Dallin H. Oaks, the establishment of the RSC was approved by BYU's Board of Trustees in early 1976. Holland became the RSC's first director, with Keith H. Meservy, assistant professor of ancient scripture, as administrator. In 1976, Holland was appointed Commissioner of Church Education, and Ellis T. Rasmussen replaced him as dean of Religious Instruction and general director of the RSC.\n\nThe RSC brought together several earlier BYU institutions. It became the home of the Richard L. Evans Chair of Christian Understanding, which had been founded in 1973 with Truman G. Madsen as its first occupant. Madsen became a professor emeritus in 1994, and the position was renamed the Richard L. Evans Chair of Religious Understanding, reflecting the hope that holders would extend the hand of friendship to all people, not just Christians. The RSC also assumed and expanded upon the activities of the Institute of Mormon Studies, which was founded to study Mormon history and doctrine under Daniel H. Ludlow in 1961 and Madsen in 1966. Likewise, the RSC absorbed the Book of Mormon Institute, a center for research on the Book of Mormon, with Ludlow as its first director in 1965, followed by Paul R. Cheesman in 1968.\n\nIn September 1985, at the request of Holland, then BYU's president, the RSC began holding annual symposia on the Book of Mormon. The first of these was organized by Paul R. Cheesman, who also edited the published compilation of papers from that event. Each symposium successively covered following sections of the book until 1994, when papers on the entire book had been published in nine anthology volumes in the \"Book of Mormon Symposium Series\".\n\nThe faculty publications directors have consisted of S. Kent Brown (19851987), Charles D. Tate Jr. (19871994), Kent P. Jackson (19942001), Richard D. Draper (20012004), Richard N. Holzapfel (20042010), Robert L. Millet (20102012), Dana M. Pike (20122013), Thomas A. Wayment (20132018), and Scott C. Esplin (2018present). All have significantly influenced the nature and quality of the academic books and journal articles published.\n\nIn 2001, the dean of Religious Education, Andrew C. Skinner, asked Richard D. Draper to reorganize the center with Holzapfel as editor of the new \"Religious Educator\" journal and Devan Jensen as executive editor to professionalize the publications. The RSC created a new advisory board with male and female members from diverse backgrounds with interest in ancient scripture and modern history and doctrine of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Draper negotiated a partnership with Covenant Communications to publish RSC materials; that partnership lasted about five years. The \"Religious Educator\" relied on copyediting by Ted D. Stoddard with design work by Stephen Hales Creative, based in Provo, Utah. Holzapfel started a project to digitize past RSC content; initiated translation of selected articles into Spanish, Portuguese, and German; and launched the \"BYU Religious Education Review\" magazine. Under the leadership of directors Millet, Pike, and Wayment, publications continued to win awards (see list below) and reach a wider audience.\n\nThe RSC seeks to improve religion teaching at BYU, to encourage LDS religious studies, and to promote the study of other religions. Believing that church leaders, not scholars, are the ultimate doctrinal authority, the RSC seeks to only add historical, cultural, and linguistic context and to explore new views of the LDS religious tradition. The RSC coordinates and publishes this research in the hopes of growing the body of LDS literature and thought.\n\nIn 1977, as Church Commissioner of Education, Holland told the center that he hoped it would bring dialogue with other cultures and religions, leading to greater understanding, brotherhood, and peace. Later, as president of BYU in 1986, Holland recalled that the RSC was established to inform those within the university and the general LDS membership. In 2008, the RSC began posting its complete library in English and selections in Spanish and Portuguese in order to increase its worldwide presence.\n\nThe RSC has funded research in several areas, including ancient scripture, ancient studies, the Bible, the Book of Mormon, Church history, the Doctrine and Covenants, Judeo-Christian Religions, the Pearl of Great Price, and world religions. The RSC has also sponsored LDS sociological studies and research on other religions, such as early Egyptian Christianity, Islam, and sub-tropical African religions. In 1985, the RSC began to publish works from some of these specialized areas of study, making up the RSC Specialized Monograph Series.\n\nThe RSC awards financial grants to BYU faculty and other scholars for research into LDS history, doctrine, scripture, and culture. This research has been published by the RSC and other publishers, including \"\", the University of Illinois Press, the University of Missouri Press, and Oxford University Press. Of the several projects it accepts per year, the RSC prefers those that benefit religious teachers and the progress of the LDS Church. RSC publications are intended to be scholarly and useful to general LDS readers.\n\nThe RSC is financed through BYU funds, individual donations, and the Friends of Religious Education (FORE). FORE is a national volunteer committee to find donors for BYU Religious Education activities, such as RSC research, publishing, and translation. FORE encourages donations, sponsors projects, and hosts firesides (special religious lectures) throughout the United States given by Religious Education faculty.\n\nThe following titles show the breadth of books published by the RSC (complete list): Andrew F. Ehat and Lyndon W. Cook, eds., \"The Words of Joseph Smith\"; Hugh W. Nibley, \"Nibley on the Timely and the Timeless\"; Kenneth L. Alford, ed., \"Civil War Saints\"; Roger P. Minert, \"In Harm's Way: East German Latter-day Saints in World War II; \"Mark L. Grover, \"A Land of Promise and Prophecy: Elder A. Theodore Tuttle in South America, 1960–1965\"; Laura Harris Hales, ed., \"A Reason for Faith: Navigating LDS Doctrine and Church History\"; and Michael Hubbard MacKay and Nicholas J. Frederick, \"Joseph Smith's Seer Stones\". Several have won awards (see list below).\n\nA primary function of the RSC is the organization of symposia and conferences on religious subjects, from which selected papers are later published. Anthologies from symposia on broad topics make up several volumes in the RSC Monograph Series. Some of these symposia recur annually, such as ones on scriptures and church history. The RSC is also involved with the annual Sidney B. Sperry Symposium, which have been held at BYU since 1973. Often, general authorities deliver the keynote addresses at these symposia.\n\nIn 2003 the Religious Education Administrative Council approved a proposal by Richard Neitzel Holzapfel and Thomas A. Wayment to host a conference on the Saturday before Easter which would focus on Jesus's last twenty-four hours and Resurrection. The conference was held and rebroadcast on KBYU Television, helping Religious Education expand its audience. The response to this conference, now called the BYU Easter Conference, was so positive that the university decided it should be an annual event, cosponsored by Religious Education and the RSC. Early on, nearly one thousand attendees heard Elder D. Todd Christofferson give the keynote address at the second annual conference, \"The Atonement and the Resurrection,\" later published in the \"Religious Educator\". In subsequent years, the event was shifted to Fridays, often targeted to coincide with Good Friday. Over the years keynote addresses were delivered by President Cecil O. Samuelson in 2006, Elder F. Enzio Busche in 2007, and Sister Bonnie D. Parkin in 2009. An estimated 2,500 people attended the 2013 Easter Conference that featured Elder John M. Madsen, Brad Wilcox, and Brent L. Top. Other well-known keynote addresses have been given by Elaine S. Dalton, Spencer J. Condie, Sheri L. Dew, and BYU president, Kevin J Worthen. The annual event has stayed quite popular among people living along the Wasatch Front. The proceedings are published every other year by the RSC in cooperation with Deseret Book.\n\nIn 2006 the RSC began sponsoring the Church History Symposium, copublishing the proceedings with Deseret Book. Professor Alexander L. Baugh initiated the event by proposing a conference to acknowledge the two hundredth anniversary of Oliver Cowdery's birth. Since that time, this event has become a premier venue for rigorous and faithful scholarship on Church history. The topics have been Oliver Cowdery, Wilford Woodruff, John Taylor, \"Preserving the History of the Latter-day Saints,\" \"A Firm Foundation: Church Organization and Administration,\" \"Go Ye into All the World: The Growth and Development of Mormon Missionary Work,\" \"Joseph F. Smith: Reflections on the Man and His Times,\" \"Approaching Antiquity: Joseph Smith's Study of the Ancient World,\" \"The International Church: Mormonism as a Global Religion,\" \"Beyond Biography: Sources in Context for Mormon Women's History,\" and \"Financing Faith: The Intersection of Business and Religion.\"\n\nIn addition to books and articles, the RSC publishes its own periodicals. In 1986 the RSC began publishing the quarterly (later triannual) \"Religious Studies Center Newsletter\", which carried updates on RSC symposia, books, and research, and was distributed to Church Educational System faculty and LDS military chaplains. In 2008 the newsletter was replaced by \"BYU Religious Education Review\", a semiannual magazine. In 2000, Dean Robert L. Millet and others created the \"Religious Educator\" journal to focus on \"teaching the gospel, publishing studies on scripture, doctrine, and LDS Church history, and sharing the messages of outstanding devotional essays.\" Millet replaced the temporary editorial board in 2001 with Richard Neitzel Holzapfel, who became the full-time editor in chief. Holzapfel asked Ted D. Stoddard, a professor in the Marriott School of Business, to explore design and content issues and prepare guidelines that would enhance the scholarly basis of this new publication. Holzapfel clarified the purpose of this new venture: \"Our hope is to provide readers with carefully prepared, inspirational, and information-packed writings on a wide range of subjects explicitly associated with the Restoration. Teachers, authors, researchers, and students of Latter-day Saint studies at every level will appreciate discussions of relevant ideas and issues from a perspective of faith.\" The main audience consists of Church Educational System teachers, such as volunteers and paid professionals in LDS Seminaries and Institutes of Religion and religion professors at church colleges. In 2007 the RSC agreed to oversee and help fund the student journal \"Studia Antiqua\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1520139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1520139", "title": "Ronin Warriors", "text": "Ronin Warriors\n\nRonin Warriors, known in Japan as , is a Japanese anime series and manga adaptation created by Hajime Yatate. The anime was produced and animated by Sunrise and Nagoya TV, and aired across Japan on the TV Asahi network from 30 April 1988 to 4 March 1989 and has a total of 39 episodes. The manga ran from November 17, 1988 to April 5, 1990 and consists of 2 volumes which were published by Kodansha.\n\n\"Ronin Warriors\" was produced by Graz Entertainment and distributed by Cinar, and it was recorded by the Vancouver-based Ocean Productions cast. \"Ronin Warriors\" first aired on American television during the summer of 1995 and subsequently appeared through syndication, as well as the USA Network and later on Cartoon Network. The series was released on DVD in 2002, including the original Japanese version with English subtitles on the reverse side of the disc. On September 4, 2014, North American anime licensor Discotek Media announced their license of the original Japanese anime (\"Yoroiden Samurai Troopers\"), and plans to release the series on DVD. Discotek has said that they have no plans to release \"Ronin Warriors\" until they clear issues with the dub. Discotek has also licensed the OVAs and will include both Japanese and English audio as well as English subtitles.\n\nThe opening and ending sequences and the eyecatches were replaced with new ones, and the Japanese title cards were removed; there were no substantial cuts to the bodies of the episodes and the episodes retained most of the original music.\n\nThree direct-to-video sequels were produced: \"Gaiden\" (\"Side Story\"), \"Kikoutei Densetsu\" (\"The Legend of the Solar Armor\") and \"Message\". There is also a \"Ronin Warriors\" manga as well as numerous novels and audio dramas based on the anime. While all the sequels have been released on DVD, the manga and audio dramas have not been made available in English.\n\nTalpa, the demon lord of the Netherworld, is bent on conquering the mortal world. Standing against Talpa and his four Dark Warlords are the five Ronin Warriors, each in possession of mystical armor and weapons. They are assisted by Mia Koji, a young student-teacher, and a mysterious warrior-monk known only as The Ancient.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36507730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36507730", "title": "Shape Arts", "text": "Shape Arts\n\nShape Arts or Shape is a London-based arts charity, funded by Arts Council England, that is committed to providing opportunities for disabled individuals wanting to work in the arts and cultural sector. It trains participants and runs arts and development programmes across all of the creative arts: visual arts, music, dance, writing and acting. Shape Arts partners with major cultural institutions to create positive change for disabled people by improving access, exposure and opportunities in contemporary art.\n\nShape was founded by Gina Levete MBE in 1976 with project funding from the Gulbenkian Foundation. The current CEO is Tony Heaton OBE.\n\nShape was informed by the political activism of the 60s. Disability arts grew out of the disability rights movement, and the wider struggle by disabled people for equality and the right to participate in all aspects of society.\n\nTheir mission is to provide skills, opportunities and support for disabled artists, individuals and cultural organisations; and help build a more inclusive cultural sector. It does this through four delivery aims:\n\n\nShape Arts arranges exhibitions, awards bursaries to promising disabled artists and provides training in media and marketing skills. From December 2012 - Spring 2013, a pop-up exhibition entitled 'Shape in the City' was presented in the centre of the City of London. Shape recently had a temporary exhibition space for two years - a gallery at Westfield Stratford City.\n\n\nRenowned British contemporary artists have donated artworks to Shape to raise money for the charity through an auction at Bonhams. Funds raised from the sale were matched by the Arts Council’s Catalyst Arts Fund and went towards supporting new arts activities and opportunities for disabled people. Works by Jake and Dinos Chapman, Mat Collishaw, Angela de la Cruz, Tacita Dean, Sir Antony Gormley, Marc Quinn and David Shrigley were auctioned at Bonhams London on 4 March 2014.\n\nIn 2016, an online auction at Paddle8 included donations of twenty-five artworks from a range of internationally acclaimed artists including Jeremy Deller, Julie Umerle, Candida Hofer, Ragnar Kjartansson, Hito Steyerl, Grayson Perry and Hans Op de Beeck in support of Shape Arts' 40th anniversary and the continued importance of the organisation's work.\n\nThe Adam Reynolds Memorial Bursary was inaugurated in 2008 in memory of the sculptor Adam Reynolds (1959-2005). It is one of the most significant opportunities for disabled visual artists in the UK, offering an opportunity to engage in a three-month residency at a high-profile gallery. Venues that have hosted the residencies include the V & A, Camden Arts Centre, Spike Island, The BALTIC, the Bluecoat Gallery and New Art Gallery Walsall.\n\n"}
{"id": "1178011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178011", "title": "Sicko", "text": "Sicko\n\nSicko (stylized as SiCKO) is a 2007 American documentary film made by filmmaker Michael Moore. The film investigates health care in the United States, focusing on its health insurance and the pharmaceutical industry. The movie compares the profiteering, non-universal U.S. system with the non-profit universal health care systems of Canada, the United Kingdom, France and Cuba.\n\n\"Sicko\" was made on a budget of about $9 million, and grossed $25 million theatrically in the United States. This box office take exceeded the official expectation of The Weinstein Company, which had hoped for a gross in line with \"Bowling for Columbine\"'s $22 million US box office gross.\n\nAccording to \"Sicko\", almost fifty million Americans are uninsured while the remainder, who are covered, are often victims of insurance company fraud and red tape. Furthermore, \"Sicko\" references the World Health Organization which lists the U.S. health in general as ranked 37 out of 191, with certain health measures, such as infant mortality and life expectancy, equal to countries with much less economic wealth. Interviews are conducted with people who thought they had adequate coverage but were denied care. Former employees of insurance companies describe cost-cutting initiatives that give bonuses to insurance company physicians and others to find reasons for the company to avoid meeting the cost of medically necessary treatments for policy holders, and thus increase company profitability.\n\nIn Canada, a citizen describes the case of Tommy Douglas, who was voted the greatest Canadian in 2004 for his contributions to the Canadian health system. Moore also interviews a microsurgeon and people waiting in the emergency room of a Canadian public hospital.\n\nAgainst the backdrop of the history of the American health care debate, opponents of universal health care are set in the context of 1950s-style anti-communist propaganda. A 1950s record distributed by the American Medical Association, narrated by Ronald Reagan, warns that universal health care could lead to lost freedoms and socialism. In response, Moore shows that socialized public services like police, fire service, the United States Postal Service, public education and community libraries have not led to communism in the United States.\n\nThe origins of the Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973 are presented using a taped conversation between John Ehrlichman and President Richard Nixon on February 17, 1971; Ehrlichman is heard telling Nixon that \"...the less care they give them, the more money they make,\" a plan that Nixon remarked \"fine\" and \"not bad.\" This led to the expansion of the modern health maintenance organization-based health care system. Connections are highlighted between Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the lobbying arm of the largest drug companies in the United States, lobbying groups in Washington D.C., and the Congress. Hillary Clinton, a champion of the Clinton health care plan, is shown as a crusader for change, appointed to reform the health care system in the United States by her husband, newly elected President Bill Clinton. Her efforts are met with heavy-handed criticisms by Republicans on Capitol Hill, and right-wing media throughout the country, who characterize her plan as the harbinger of socialism. When she is defeated, her punishment is to \"never speak of it again while in the White House.\" Seven years later, her silence is rewarded, as she becomes a Senator via Healthcare Industry Contributions, the second largest recipient in the Senate.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a country whose National Health Service is a comprehensive publicly funded health care system, Moore interviews patients and inquires about in-hospital expenses incurred by patients, only to be told that there are no out-of-pocket payments. Moore visits a typical UK pharmacy, where pharmaceuticals are free of charge for all persons in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales and under 16, 16–17 in full-time education, disabled, unemployed, or over 60 in England, and subsidized in most cases for everyone else (in England); only a fixed amount of £6.65 (about $10) per item on a prescription was charged, irrespective of cost to the NHS. Further, NHS hospitals employ a cashier, part of whose job is to reimburse low-income patients for their out-of-pocket travel costs to the hospital. Interviews include an NHS general practitioner, an American woman residing in London, and British politician Tony Benn, who concedes that a hypothetical dismantling of the NHS would lead to a revolution.\n\nIn France, Moore visits a hospital and interviews the head of obstetrics and gynaecology and a group of American expatriates. Moore rides with the \"SOS Médecins\", a 24-hour French medical service that provides house calls by physicians. Moore discovers that the French government provides many social services and rights in addition to health care, such as daycare for $1 an hour, free college education, a minimum five weeks paid vacation by law, vacation, and neonatal support that includes cooking, cleaning, and laundry services for new mothers.\n\nReturning to the United States, interviews disclose that 9/11 rescue workers who volunteered after the September 11, 2001 attacks were denied government funds to care for physical and psychological maladies they subsequently developed, including respiratory disease and PTSD-induced bruxism. Unable to receive and afford medical care in the United States, the 9/11 rescue workers, as well as all of Moore's friends in the film needing medical attention, set sail from Miami to Cuba on three speedboats in order to obtain free medical care provided for the enemy combatants detained at the U.S. Guantanamo Bay detainment camp. The group arrives at the entrance channel to \"Gitmo\" and Moore uses a megaphone to request access, pleading for the 9/11 victims to receive treatment that is on par with the medical attention the \"evildoers\" are receiving. The attempt ceases when a siren is blown from the base, and the group moves on to Havana, where they purchase inexpensive medicine and receive free medical treatment at the elite Hermanos Ameijeiras Hospital. Providing only their names and birth dates, the volunteers are hospitalized and receive medical attention. Before they leave, the 9/11 rescue workers are honored by a local Havana fire station.\n\nFinally, Moore addresses the audience, emphasizing that people should be \"taking care of each other, no matter the differences.\" To demonstrate his personal commitment to this theme, Moore decides to help one of his biggest critics, Jim Kenefick. According to a blog posting, Kenefick feared he would have to shut down his anti-Moore website because he needed US $12,000 to cover the costs of medical treatment for his sick wife. Not wanting the U.S. health care system to trump Kenefick's ability to express his opinion, Moore sends Kenefick the money himself.\n\nThis film ends with Moore walking towards the United States Capitol with a basket full of his clothes, sarcastically saying he will get the government to do his laundry until a better day comes for the sick and hopeless who are unable to receive health care.\n\n\"Sicko\" premiered on May 19, 2007, at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival, receiving a 17-minute standing ovation from 2,000 people at the Grand Theatre Lumiere. The North American première of \"Sicko\" was held in London, Ontario (where some scenes from the movie were filmed), at the Silver City movie theatre at Masonville Place on June 8, 2007, with Moore in attendance. It also had an early première in Washington DC. on June 20, two days before its U.S. release, with Moore appearing at a Capitol Hill press conference to promote the film.\n\nThe European première was held in Great Britain on October 24, 2007, at the Odeon Leicester Square as part of the 51st London Film Festival. Moore was to introduce the film, but remained in the United States due to a 'family issue', sending a lengthy letter to be read in his absence. Part of the letter gave thanks to the Rt Hon. Tony Benn, featured in the film, who delivered a short speech before the showing.\n\nMade on a budget of $9 million, \"Sicko\" earned $4.5 million on its opening weekend. In 441 theaters, it took in an average of $10,204 per theater, the second highest average gross of the weekend. As of February 24, 2008, \"Sicko\" has grossed $25 million in the United States and $11 million in foreign markets. Overall, the movie has made over $36 million. The film was also a huge success in DVD sales in which it accumulated over $60 million in sales.\n\nAccording to the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film boasts a 92% positive rating, based on 215 reviews, with an average rating of 7.7/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Driven by Michael Moore's sincere humanism, \"Sicko\" is a devastating, convincing, and very entertaining documentary about the state of America's health care.\" Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 74 out of 100, based on 39 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". After its Cannes release, \"Variety\" described \"Sicko\" as \"an affecting and entertaining dissection of the American health care industry\".\n\nIn an early review a week before the premiere, Richard Roeper and Michael Phillips gave the film two thumbs up. Roger Friedman of Fox News called the film a \"brilliant and uplifting new film\" and praised Moore for the way in which he lets \"very articulate average Americans tell their personal horror stories at the hands of insurance companies\" and \"criticizes both Democrats and Republicans for their inaction and in some cases their willingness to be bribed by pharmaceutical companies and insurance carriers.\"\n\nBritish film magazine \"Empire\" praised Moore's filmmaking and personal artistic vision, exclaiming \"\"Sicko\" is the film that truly reveals Moore as an auteur.\"\n\nDavid Denby of the \"New Yorker\" called the film \"feeble, even inane\", but film critic Stephen Schaefer of \"The Boston Globe\" described \"Sicko\" as \"a very strong and very honest film about a health system that's totally corrupt and that is without any care for its patients\".\n\nThe film was listed as the 4th best film of 2007 by Carina Chocano of \"Los Angeles Times\", as well as 8th best by Marjorie Baumgarten of \"The Austin Chronicle\".\n\n\"Sicko\" was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. It was also commended in the Australian Film Critics Association 2007 Film Award for Best Documentary.\n\nJournalist John Stossel wrote an article in the \"Wall Street Journal\" that claimed Julie Pierce's husband, Tracy, featured in \"Sicko\", would not have been saved by the bone marrow transplant denied by his insurer. Stossel also questioned whether this treatment would have been given in a universal health care system, citing rationing and long waiting lists in Canada and Britain. Julie Pierce claimed Stossel never contacted her or her husband's doctors, and that the insurer denied other treatments as well and questioned Stossel's assertion that Tracy would not have received this in a socialized system, arguing that they are performed more frequently in Canada than in the U.S.\n\nMoore insisted in the movie as well as in an interview with Stossel that the treatment provided in the Hermanos Ameijeiras Hospital was just like that given to any Cuban; but Stossel's investigations led Stossel to conclude that the hospital provided service only for the Cuban elite and that this care was not available to the average Cuban. In response to criticism that only well-to-do Cuban citizens receive a decent standard of health care, Michael Moore adduced on his website the result of an independent Gallup Poll in which \"a near unanimous 96 percent of respondents say that health care in Cuba is accessible to everyone\". An article in the \"Miami Herald\" interviewing some Cuban exiles in the United States criticized \"Sicko\" for painting a rosy picture of the Cuban healthcare system.\n\nIn an article published in both \"The New Yorker\" and \"Reason\" magazine, Michael C. Moynihan called the film \"touching, naïve and maddeningly mendacious, a clumsy piece of agitprop that will likely have little lasting effect on the health care debate\". Surgeon and Associate Director of Brigham and Women's Hospital's Center for Surgery and Public Health\nAtul Gawande commented, \"\"Sicko\" is a revelation. And what makes this especially odd to say is that the movie brings to light nothing that the media haven’t covered extensively for years.\"\n\nKurt Loder criticized the film as presenting cherry-picked facts, manipulative interviews, and unsubstantiated assertions. While admitting that the U.S. health care system needs reform, Loder criticized Moore’s advocacy of government control, arguing that many services controlled by the government are not considered efficient by the American public. Loder points to a 2005 film, \"Dead Meat\", by Stuart Browning and Blaine Greenberg, which documents long waiting lists for care in Canada. Loder points to calls for reform in Britain and France due to the same rationing.\n\n\"USA Today's\" Richard Wolf said, \"\"Sicko\" uses omission, exaggeration and cinematic sleight of hand to make its points.\"\n\nWBAI Radio, part of the Pacifica Radio Network, reported that \"Sicko\" was revitalizing the debate for universal health care within the United States, calling the film \"adrenaline for healthcare activists.\"\n\nIn a letter responding to a \"Wall Street Journal\" op-ed by David Gratzer that was critical of the film, Robert S. Bell, M.D., President and CEO of University Health Network, Toronto, said that while Moore \"exaggerated the performance of the Canadian health system,\" it provides universal coverage of a similar quality to that enjoyed by only some Americans. Michael Moore posted a leaked memo from a Capital Blue Cross employee about the likely consequences of the film. The memo expresses concern that the movie turns people against Capital Blue Cross by linking it to abuses by for-profit HMOs.\n\nA July 9, 2007 broadcast of CNN's \"The Situation Room\" aired a \"fact check\" segment by CNN's senior health correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta on \"Sicko\". Immediately following the segment, Moore was interviewed live on CNN by Wolf Blitzer. Moore stated that Gupta's report was inaccurate and biased. Moore posted a point-by-point response on his website. After a debate with Moore on \"Larry King Live\", Gupta posted a message about his position on \"Sicko\" and CNN's coverage.\n\nWendell Potter admitted that while he was working as Head of Corporate Communications at CIGNA, the health insurance industry umbrella agency America's Health Insurance Plans had developed a campaign to discredit Michael Moore and the movie. When asked what he thought about the film Potter said that \"I thought that he hit the nail on the head with his movie. But the industry, from the moment that the industry learned that Michael Moore was taking on the health care industry, it was really concerned ... They were afraid that people would believe Michael Moore.\"\n\nJournalist Bill Moyers reported that PBS had obtained a copy of the \"game plan\" that was adopted by the industry's trade association, America's Health Insurance Plans which spelled out the industry strategies to \"highlight horror stories of government-run systems\". Potter explained, \"The industry has always tried to make Americans think that government-run systems are the worst thing that could possibly happen to them, that even if you consider that, you're heading down on the slippery slope towards socialism. So they have used scare tactics for years and years and years, to keep that from happening. If there were a broader program like our Medicare program now, it could potentially reduce the profits of these big companies. So that is their biggest concern.\"\n\nMoyers reported and Potter confirmed that there were attempts to radicalize Moore in an effort to discredit the film’s message. Moore would be referred to as a \"Hollywood entertainer\" or \"Hollywood moviemaker\" to associate the film as being grounded in entertainment without any basis in objective reality. \"They would want you to see this as just some fantasy that a Hollywood filmmaker had come up with. That's part of the strategy.\" Potter said that the strategy worked and the impact of the film was \"blunted\" by the public relations campaign. He agreed that \"Sicko\" contained \"a great truth\" which he said was \"that we shouldn't fear government involvement in our health care system. That there is an appropriate role for government, and it's been proven in the countries that were in that movie. You know, we have more people who are uninsured in this country than the entire population of Canada. And that if you include the people who are underinsured, more people than in the United Kingdom. We have huge numbers of people who are also just a lay-off away from joining the ranks of the uninsured, or being purged by their insurance company, and winding up there.\"\n\nThe free-market think-tanks, such as the Manhattan Institute, say that \"Sicko\" misrepresented the health systems of Canada, the United Kingdom and Cuba, and criticized it for its negative portrayal of the American health insurance system compared to these countries.\n\nThe National Center for Policy Analysis, a conservative American think tank, has also been critical of Moore's claims, focusing particularly on lengthy waiting lists and unavailability of new treatments in the publicly funded health systems of the United Kingdom and Canada, an aspect of those systems which they allege Moore failed to address.\n\nThe left-of-center/liberal-leaning Urban Institute (UI) largely agreed with Moore regarding the need for a universal health care system and failure of the current system. Urban Institute economist Linda Blumberg stated that Moore correctly provides evidence that the current system fails and a universal system is needed, adding that any system will face budget constraints. Overall, Blumberg stated that \"Americans as a whole have yet to buy the philosophy that health care is a right and not a privilege\" and if Moore succeeded in popularizing the idea, he \"will have done the country a tremendous service.\" Bradford Gary agrees with the main points made by Moore but criticizes the film for making various omissions and lacking attention to detail, stating that \"though Moore is not interested in the details behind the outrages he has assembled, many of his fundamental points are nevertheless accurate.\"\n\nRegarding Moore's donation to Jim and Donna Kenefick of Moorewatch.com, while Donna Kenefick thanked Moore, saying his money \"paid for our health insurance premiums and gave us the financial breathing room to both deal with our debts\", Jim Kenefick disputed Moore's account of these events, saying that his insurance would have paid for his wife's needs, and that his sites were in operation again thanks to reader donations long before he ever received Moore's check. Kenefick accused Moore of presenting his words out of context in order to defame him, and both Kenefick and his onetime co-blogger, Lee, criticized Moore for claiming to make this donation anonymously, only to highlight it in his film. They accuse him of being motivated by a desire for publicity and self-aggrandizement rather than altruism.\n\nAt a Cannes press conference, after the identity of the donor was revealed, Moore said: \"I had to ask myself, 'Would you write this check if this wasn't in the film?' I decided this is what I would do, and what I should do, and this is the way I want Americans to live.\"\n\n\"Sicko\" was shown in theaters throughout Cuba and on national TV. Despite this, former United States Interests Section in Havana chief Michael E. Parmly wrote a diplomatic cable on January 31, 2008, which in part read: \n\"The Guardian\" newspaper, which collaborated with WikiLeaks, who leaked the cable, initially reported the cable's claim as fact, then printed that Moore complained about the factual error, and finally \"The Guardian\" printed a correction, confirming the film was in fact shown in Cuba. Moore argued that US officials simply made up the story to discredit the film as it portrays the US healthcare system in a negative light.\n\nThe film was leaked onto the Internet two weeks before its official release on June 29, 2007. Moore denied leaking the film for publicity, and an investigation was made into the source of the Internet leak. When asked about the leak, Moore said, \"I'm just happy that people get to see my movies. I'm not a big supporter of the copyright laws in this country ... I don't understand bands or filmmakers ... who oppose sharing, having their work being shared by people, because it only increases your fanbase.\"\n\nIn a May 2, 2007 letter, the Office of Foreign Assets Control informed Moore that he was the subject of a civil investigation stemming from the filmmaker's March trip to Cuba. In the letter to Moore, a Treasury official noted that the department had no record of Moore obtaining a license that authorized him to \"engage in travel-related transactions involving Cuba,\" alleging that Moore violated the United States embargo against Cuba.\nA duplicate master copy of the film was being held in Canada should an attempt have been made by American authorities to seize the film as part of the investigation against Moore that arose from taking the American 9/11 rescue workers to Cuba for medical treatment. Moore has said that trips made for conducting journalism are usually covered under a general license, which does not require preauthorization by the State Department. Moore states that his intentions were to travel to the US Naval base in Guantánamo Bay. Upon Moore's arrival at Guantánamo Bay, a siren was sounded and Moore decided to turn around for safety.\n\nOn \"The Tonight Show\", Moore reported that he was notified that a subpoena regarding his trip to Cuba had already been issued. According to an anonymous source reported by Reuters, Moore has not been served; rather, the government contacted his attorney, David Boies, to discuss the logistics of serving a subpoena.\n\nThe DVD release includes deleted segments that Moore filmed but did not use in the theatrical release. Several scenes from the section about health care in the United Kingdom feature footage of a homeless shelter where people received acupuncture and foot massages. Discarded scenes in France include an interview with an employee from General Electric, who tells Moore they get benefits in France that GE employees do not receive in the United States. Scenes showing Moore's visit to Norway and depicting its healthcare system, social benefits, and rehabilitation-based prison system were removed from the film because the Norwegian healthcare system, which is supervised by the Norwegian Board of Health Supervision, possesses numerous benefits similar to the French system. Like the French health care system, Norwegian patients treated for illnesses such as psoriasis or rheumatism are shown eligible for two weeks' paid vacation at a spa in the Canary Islands. Norway hires a government ethicist to determine how to invest the windfall from the country's oil wealth, because they want to do it in an ethical manner. A scene where Moore visits Bastøy Prison, a Norwegian island prison, was also deleted. Here, inmates reside in small group homes and focus on rehabilitation through manual labor and farming.\n\nDeleted American health care scenes include an uninsured woman who was offered a 50% discount for treatment of spinal cancer. She still could not afford the initial consultations, so she held a fundraiser to pay for it. After the initial visit, the 50 percent discount was revoked when the hospital discovered that she had obtained the money to pay for her treatment through fundraising, which the hospital considered to be earned income. An interview with Marcia Angell was also deleted. The former editor of \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" criticizes various practices of pharmaceutical companies and the Food and Drug Administration. Executive producer Harvey Weinstein asked Moore to remove a scene critical of Hillary Clinton, but Moore refused. Weinstein, whose company provided financing for the film, is a friend of the Clinton family.\n\nIn the DVD edition of the film, Moore added a segment called \"\"Sicko\" Goes to Washington\". This extra promotes the United States National Health Care Act, legislation that would create a single-payer health care system within the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1838453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1838453", "title": "Society for Crypto-Judaic Studies", "text": "Society for Crypto-Judaic Studies\n\nThe Society for Crypto-Judaic Studies (\"SCJS\"), founded in August 1990 by Rabbi Joshua Stampfer of Portland, Oregon, and Dr. Stanley Hordes of Santa Fe, New Mexico, is the major academic organization conducting and encouraging research on the Crypto-Jews of Spain and Portugal and their descendants today. This also involves significant attention being given to the Inquisition and to its ramifications for Sephardic Jews as well as for the general Jewish community. \n\nMembership in the SCJS is composed of scholars interested in crypto-Jews, descendants of crypto-Jews, and others interested in the topic from a historical, sociological, anthropological, religious, ethnic, literary, philosophical, or other perspective. The Society is nonreligious, and membership is open to all. Today, there is much interest, both academic and personal, in the history and contemporary status of crypto-Jews, and a number of distinguished scholars have published in the area. Especially in recent years, a number of people, especially, but not limited to, Hispanics, have returned or converted to Judaism, frequently in part because of knowledge of a previously-suppressed Jewish heritage. New Mexico, Texas, Arizona, and California are major areas of interest, but significant interest also is found in Miami, Florida, Orlando, Florida, New York City, Portland, Oregon, and other areas with large numbers of Hispanics. This contemporary phenomenon of returning/converting also is of specific interest to some academic researchers.\n\nThe SCJS publishes \"HaLapid\": The Journal of the Society for Crypto-Judaic Studies, a combination newsletter and journal. Published four times per year, \"HaLapid\" (Hebrew for The Torch) mostly includes refereed academic research articles, personal stories by descendants of crypto-Jews, and news items, but also includes occasional poetry, links for related websites, and other items of interest. The SCJC also hosts a website, and helps answer questions and make referrals for interested persons.\n\nThe Society for Crypto-Judaic Studies meets annually for a three-day conference which includes a keynote speaker, sessions on recent research findings, personal stories of returnees, business sessions, and various forms of entertainment. At the 2003 annual conference in San Antonio, Texas, the keynote speaker was retired Rabbi Samuel Lerer who spent much of his 51-year career working with anusim in Mexico. The SCJS has taken a lead in interest in DNA studies, especially as it applies to crypto-Jews, other Sephardim, and the Jewish community in general.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "424662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424662", "title": "Stamp catalog", "text": "Stamp catalog\n\nA stamp catalog (or stamp catalogue) is a catalog of postage stamp types with descriptions and prices.\n\nThe stamp catalog is an essential tool of philately and stamp collecting. Stamp catalogs are part of philatelic literature.\n\nThe first stamp catalog was published in France by Oscar Berger-Levrault on 17 September 1861 and the first illustrated catalog by Alfred Potiquet in December 1861 (based on the earlier work).\n\nThe first catalogs in Great Britain were published in 1862 by Frederick Booty, Mount Brown, and Dr. John Edward Gray. The first in the United States was \"The Stamp Collector's Manual\" by A.C. Kline (a pseudonym for John William Kline), also 1862.\n\nOriginally catalogs were just dealers' price lists, though today that is less common. The catalogs of some major publishers continue to serve as an official price list for the publisher. For example, Stanley Gibbons in the United Kingdom specifically states in the catalog that the price listed is the estimated selling price by Stanley Gibbons Ltd. On the other had, Scott in the United States does not sell stamps. Rather, the Scott catalog serves as a reference document for expected prices used by buyers and sellers. Over time, as philately developed, catalogs tended to accumulate additional supporting details about the stamps, such as dates of issue, color variations, and so forth. As their use by collectors became widespread, the catalogs came to define what was and was not a legitimate stamp, since many collectors would avoid stamps not described in the catalog. In recent years, the Internet has become a common resource for information about stamps. Some catalogs have an on-line version while others are available only on-line.\n\nThe following catalogs have a worldwide coverage:\n\nThese are large undertakings, since there are thousands of new stamps to describe each year, and the prices of all stamps may go up or down. For publishers that are not dealers, the prices are estimated by data from dealers and auctions.\n\nIn addition, the catalog publishers usually put out specialized volumes with additional details, generally by nationality: Michel has a specialized German catalog, Scott a specialized US catalog, and so forth.\n\nMany countries have their own \"national catalogs\", typically put out by a leading publisher or dealer in that country. Postal administrations may themselves put out catalogs, although they tend to be aimed at less-experienced collectors, and rarely provide fully detailed stamp data. Some notable country catalogs include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47205300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47205300", "title": "Tecterra", "text": "Tecterra\n\nTecterra, usually written as TECTERRA or TECTERRA Inc., is a Canadian geomatics technology innovation support centre. Established in June 2010 as a non-profit organization, Tecterra assists geomatics technology companies across Alberta to achieve commercial success faster than they can on their own. With current funding from the Government of Alberta, Tecterra is focused on investing in geomatics innovation for resource management and other markets. The organization’s funding model is unique, as support for companies does not require Intellectual Property ownership or corporate equity in exchange for funds.\n\nBeginning operations in 2010, Tecterra was created in collaboration with the Alberta government to better utilize the natural resources in Alberta through the commercialization of geomatics technology. Tecterra's goal is to create prosperity through innovation, where innovation is the tangible value gained from the use of technology in everyday life. Tecterra's funding sources have included: Western Economic Diversification Canada, Alberta Innovates - Technology Futures, and the Government of Canada - Centres of Excellence for Commercialization and Research.\n\nTecterra supports companies through their funding and support programs. Companies are invited to apply to their programs at any time, and an internal review process is conducted alongside Tecterra's advisory committees. Programs include:\n\nThe Industry Investment Program enables and supports small to medium size Alberta geomatics companies in the development and commercialization of innovative geomatics solutions for integrated resource management. Funding is focused on solutions for energy, forestry, agriculture, environment, land management and land development. Companies that apply under this program are eligible to receive from $150,000 to $500,000 in matching contribution. Funding is provided as an interest free loan repayable only after commercial success.\n\nQualifying companies fit the following criteria\n\nThe Commercialization Support Services program provides funds assisting Alberta geomatics entrepreneurs and companies in the implementation of best-practice techniques in the development, management and growth of their business. Tecterra provides necessary funding in order for companies to work with industry experts such as marketing, accounting, IP management, and business development to ensure that companies grow the appropriate business capacity and become self-sufficient. The CSS program provides up to $50,000 towards eligible costs in one calendar year per applicant. The company is responsible for repaying 25% of the funding provided at project completion. The program focuses on small businesses or individual entrepreneurs who may have the technical knowledge to develop a product, but lack the skills necessary in order to successfully run a business.\n\nThe GEO-Placement Funding Program is designed to create economic value for small companies in Alberta by facilitating the engagement and employment of highly qualified technical and business geomatics personnel. The grant reimburses companies up to 50% of the employees salary for the first year, up to $50,000. Moving costs are covered to a max of $10,000 if the employee is moving to Alberta from another province. Funding is provided as a non-repayable grant.\n\nThe Tradeshow Attendance Program is designed to assist Alberta geomatics companies and entrepreneurs attend relevant industry events, conferences and trade shows in support of the commercialization of their products and technology. The program provides up to 100% of event registration costs, 3 nights of hotels costs, and other eligible costs up to $20,000 and 2 separate events. Funding is provided as a non-repayable grant.\n\nTecterra's Geomatics Lab provides state-of-the-art geomatics equipment for use by Alberta companies and those engaging in applied R&D programs. Equipment is available for free to rent for portfolio companies, and at a subsidized rate for non-portfolio companies.\n\nThe Tecterra Geomatics Showcase is the organization’s main event that takes place annually in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. The event brings together companies from Tecterra’s portfolio of funding programs from across the nation with a goal to showcase the companies’ work and provide them with professional development and networking opportunities to connect with other business professionals, industry and potential investors.\n\nTheir most recent Showcase, held at the Calgary TELUS Convention Centre on June 24, 2015, featured more than 60 portfolio companies and four university applied research projects, with keynote speaker, Nolan Bushnell, world renowned entrepreneur and founder of Atari Inc. Michelle Rempel, former Minister of State for Western Economic Diversification Canada, was also in attendance and provided a speech. More than 500 geomatics and industry professionals were in attendance, marking this as the organization’s biggest event to date.\n\nSince June 2010, Tecterra has committed over $33.9 million to geomatics companies and applied research groups for innovative geomatics technology and commercialization, training and new job creation across Alberta and Canada. This amount has been matched with $23.3 million in private investments.\nTo date, the organization has generated over $145 million in actual economic impact on the Canadian economy, with a projection to grow to over $300 million in the next five years.\n\nHighlights from Tecterra’s economic impact include:\n\nTecterra has funded private and government programs such as Avalanche Canada and Blackbridge Geomatics.\n\nTecterra has in the past, funded university projects and also provided scholarships for students in the geomatics sector.\n\nIn 2014, members of Tecterra were invited by the Consulate General of France in Vancouver to visit several technology institutions in France. These included: University of Avignon - UMR Espace and Laboratoire Souterrain à Bas Bruit, TERINOV Cluster, and the National Research Institute of Science and Technology for Environment and Agriculture. The purpose of the visit was to establish relations between technology partners in France and Canada, and discover possible collaborations and technology transfers between the two countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "36513146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36513146", "title": "The Artist's Despair Before the Grandeur of Ancient Ruins", "text": "The Artist's Despair Before the Grandeur of Ancient Ruins\n\nThe Artist's Despair Before the Grandeur of Ancient Ruins (German: \"Der Künstler verzweifelnd vor der Grösse der antiken Trümmer\") is a drawing in red chalk with brown wash executed between 1778-1780 by Johann Heinrich Füssli. It depicts an artist's response to ruins, namely those of the Colossus of Constantine at the Capitoline Museums in Rome. The work was acquired by the Kunsthaus Zürich in 1940.\n\nThe artist's despair may be caused by \"the impossibility of emulating the greatness of the past\", by the knowledge that all things must decay, or by a sense of unfulfilled longing and dislocation. Distortions of perspective and the \"plunge into the abyss\" along the right edge conjure up a sense of nightmare. SPQR may be read in the inscription on the base of the foot, while vegetation sprouts up near the hand; the artist, in a \"fit of melancholy\", is dwarfed by the fragments of the past.\n\n"}
{"id": "43434254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43434254", "title": "The CLR James Journal", "text": "The CLR James Journal\n\nThe CLR James Journal is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes articles, reviews, and discussions relevant to the work and legacy of C. L. R. James. It was established in 1990 and the editor-in-chief is Paget Henry (Brown University). The journal is sponsored by the Caribbean Philosophical Association and published by the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in EBSCO Summon, Philosophy Research Index, PhilPapers, and ProQuest Summon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1007676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1007676", "title": "The Dean Martin Show", "text": "The Dean Martin Show\n\nThe Dean Martin Show, not to be confused with the \"Dean Martin Variety Show\" (1959–1960), is a TV variety-comedy series that ran from 1965 to 1974 for 264 episodes. It was broadcast by NBC and hosted by entertainer Dean Martin. The theme song to the series was his 1964 hit \"Everybody Loves Somebody\".\n\n\nThe series was a staple for NBC, airing Thursdays at 10:00 for 8 years, until its move to Fridays at 10:00 for the final season and change in format.\n\n\"The Dean Martin Celebrity Roast\", a series of specials spun off from the final season, generated solid ratings for 10 years on NBC.\n\nMartin was initially reluctant to do the show, partially because he did not want to turn down movie and nightclub performances. His terms were deliberately outrageous: he demanded a high salary and that he need only show up for the actual taping of the show. To his surprise the network agreed. As daughter Deana Martin recalled after meeting the network and making his demands Martin returned home and announced to his family, \"They went for it. So now I have to do it.\" (The terms of employment, and not having to appear for rehearsals, allowed Martin to appear in a series of Matt Helm films concurrent with the show's run, as well as other projects such as a co-starring role in the first \"Airport\" film in 1970.)\n\nMartin believed that an important key to his popularity was that he did not put on airs. His act was that of a drunken, work-shy playboy, although the ever-present old-fashioned glass in his hand often only had apple juice in it. The show was heavy on physical comedy rather than just quips (he made his weekly entrance by sliding down a fireman's pole onto the stage.) Martin read his dialogue directly from cue cards. If he flubbed a line or forgot a lyric, Martin would not do a retake, and the mistake—and his recovery from it—went straight to tape and onto the air.\n\n\"The Dean Martin Show\" was shot on color videotape beginning in 1965 at Studio 4 inside NBC's massive color complex at 3000 West Alameda Avenue in Burbank, California. The same studio was used for Frank Sinatra's yearly TV specials in the late 1960s, and Elvis Presley's 1968 \"Comeback Special\". Studio 4 is currently one of two used in the production of the soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\".\n\n\nIn later seasons, many regular performers were added, such as Dom DeLuise and Nipsey Russell in sketches set in a barber shop; Kay Medford and Lou Jacobi in sketches set in a diner, and Medford also pretending to be the mother of Martin's pianist, Ken Lane. Leonard Barr, Guy Marks, Tom Bosley, Marian Mercer, Charles Nelson Reilly, and Rodney Dangerfield were also featured on multiple occasions, while bandleader Les Brown was a regular.\n\nDuring the inaugural 1965–1966 season, The Krofft Puppets were seen regularly. Their stint, however, only lasted 8 episodes. Sid and Marty Krofft recall in an interview that they were fired because of an incident involving Liberace, for whom they've previously worked, and who was a great fan of their puppets. Sid states: \"And he [Liberace] asked his fan club to write Dean Martin a letter and tell Dean Martin that there isn't enough puppetry on the show.\" Many of the letters were nasty and came in great amounts: \"And so, can you imagine getting over 250 thousand letters like that in a matter of a couple of weeks, and well, he really didn't like that and fired us.\"\n\nFor Martin's Thursday night time slot, the network and Martin's production crew created original summer programming (without Martin) to hold his usual weekly audience. Rowan and Martin hosted the first. Dean Martin's 1966 summer series proved so successful that two seasons later it spawned one of television's most memorable series, \"Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In\".\n\nFrom July to September 1967, the summer show was co-hosted by Martin's daughter Gail Martin, Vic Damone and Carol Lawrence.\n\nIn 1968, Martin's staff came up with a new format: a salute to the 1930s, with a variety show performed as if television existed at that time. Producer Greg Garrison recruited a dozen chorus girls, naming the group \"The Golddiggers\" after the Warner Brothers musicals of the 1930s. The series, \"Dean Martin Presents the Golddiggers\", starred Frank Sinatra, Jr. and Joey Heatherton as musical hosts, with comedy routines by Paul Lynde, Stanley Myron Handelman, Barbara Heller, comic impressionists Bill Skiles and Pete Henderson, and neo-vaudeville musicians The Times Square Two.\n\nThe summer show was a hit, returning the following year with a new cast. Lou Rawls and Gail Martin took over as hosts and six-foot-six dancer Tommy Tune was featured.\n\nThe Golddiggers also toured the nation's nightclubs as a live attraction. Some of the members grew tired of traveling and dropped out, to be replaced by other hopefuls. After the summer series ran its course, the Golddiggers were seen on Martin's own program, and four of them were used in another group, the Ding-a-Ling Sisters.\n\nToward the end of the Thursday-night run, the summer series was devoted to European comedians. Marty Feldman was featured in \"Dean Martin's Comedy World\", hosted by Jackie Cooper.\n\nEmmy Award Nominations\n\n\nGolden Globe Award Wins\n\n\nGolden Globe Award Nominations\n\n\nFrom 2003 until August 2007, a 29-volume \"Best of The Dean Martin Variety Show\" collection was sold by direct marketing firm Guthy-Renker via infomercials and a website.\n\nIn mid-2007, NBC Universal filed suit in U.S. District Court against several parties, including Guthy-Renker, claiming copyright infringement, forcing G-R to temporarily withdraw the DVDs from sale. The lawsuit was in regard to a dispute over rights to footage used in the DVD series, material to which NBC claimed it still held the copyright. The conflict was discovered when NBC Universal looked into plans to release its own DVD set.\n\nAlso named as one of the defendants in the lawsuit was longtime \"Dean Martin Show\" producer Greg Garrison, who, NBC claims, had rights to use only excerpts from selected episodes of \"The Dean Martin Show\" for the DVDs—episodes which, according to NBC, Garrison purchased years earlier from the network for a syndicated run of \"The Dean Martin Show\" that aired worldwide from 1979 to 1981. Garrison died in 2005, before the lawsuit was brought forward.\n\nA settlement among all of the parties to the suit was reached on January 2, 2008. As a consequence, the Guthy-Renker website once again began selling the collection, and infomercials advertising it returned to the small screen.\n\nThere remain two other lawsuits pending over rights to material used in the \"Best of Dean Martin Variety Show\" series, but neither of those suits affected sales of the home video collection.\n\nUnaffected by legal disputes were \"The Dean Martin Celebrity Roast\" specials, which continue to be marketed on DVD by Guthy-Renker. Total revenues from Dean Martin DVD sales have been rumored to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars. The Martin shows have not been on television since their original telecasts.\n\nOn February 3, 2011, it was revealed that a brand new package of DVDs featuring footage from \"The Dean Martin Show\" would be released on May 24, 2011 by Time-Life Video. Unlike the earlier Guthy-Renker collection, which was marketed via mail order subscription, these new sets would be aimed largely at the retail sector.\n\nOn March 21, 2011, NBC Universal TV Consumer Products Group issued a press release disclosing its participation with Time-Life on the project.\n\nIn an online report posted July 9, 2011, Deana Martin, one of Dean's daughters, reported to columnists Marilyn Beck and Stacy Jenel Smith that the first sets of \"Dean Martin Show\" DVDs released by Time-Life in the late spring had sold so well that a second collection was already being planned, and that she (Deana) would be contributing commentary to it.<ref name=\"Beck/Smith Hollywood\">Beck/Smith Hollywood</ref> This information has been independently confirmed by officials at both Time-Life and NBC Universal.\n\nBy the end of the summer of 2011, release dates were disclosed for the second wave of \"Dean Martin Show\" DVDs produced by Time-Life and featuring footage supplied by the series' originating network, NBC. Entitled \"King of Cool: The Best of The Dean Martin Variety Show\", the new collection would be made available in 1- and 6-disc configurations.\n\nNote: only the first appearance by the guest star is listed\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43292958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43292958", "title": "The Lives of the Artists (Bellori)", "text": "The Lives of the Artists (Bellori)\n\nThe Lives of the Modern Painters, Sculptors, and Architects or Le vite de' pittori, scultori et architetti moderni is a series of artist biographies written by Gian Pietro Bellori (1613–96), whom Julius von Schlosser called \"the most important historiographer of art not only of Rome, but all Italy, even of Europe, in the seventeenth century\". It is one of the foundational texts of the history and criticism of European art.\n\nThe first edition (1672) contained biographies of nine painters (Annibale and Agostino Carracci, Barocci, Caravaggio, Rubens, Van Dyck, Domenichino, Lanfranco, and Poussin), two sculptors (François Duquesnoy and Alessandro Algardi), and one architect (Domenico Fontana). The book was dedicated to Jean-Baptiste Colbert and published with French financial support.\n\nThe preface to the \"Lives\" is an essay Bellori delivered to the Accademia di San Luca, Rome in 1664. The essay, entitled \"The Idea of the Painter, the Sculptor and the Architect\" (\"L'idea del pittore, dello scultore, e dell'architetto\") contributed to a classicist reading of the \"Lives\", as opposed the a book about near-contemporaries.\n\nPrior to 2005, only the \"Idea\" and the biographies of the Carracci, Barocci, Caravaggio and Van Dyck had been translated into English. The 2005 translation by Alice Sedgwick Wohl is based on the 1976 Italian edition by Evelina Borea controlled against the editio princeps of 1672 and Michelangelo Piacentini's transcription of MS 2506 (one of two copies, ca. 1700) of the Bibliothèque Municipale de Rouen, of the biographies of Guido Reni, Andrea Sacchi and Carlo Maratta.\n\nBellori was unable to obtain funding for a second edition. The 12 biographies were republished in 1728 in Naples as a pirated edition, with the addition of a biography of Luca Giordano (1632-1705) by an unknown author.\n"}
{"id": "141234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=141234", "title": "Tool stone", "text": "Tool stone\n\nIn archaeology, a tool stone is a type of stone that is used to manufacture stone tools,\nor stones used as the raw material for tools.\n\nGenerally speaking, tools that require a sharp edge are made using cryptocrystalline materials that fracture in an easily controlled conchoidal manner.\nCryptocrystalline tool stones include flint and chert, which are fine-grained sedimentary materials; rhyolite and felsite, which are igneous flowstones; and obsidian, a form of natural glass created by igneous processes. These materials fracture in a predictable fashion, and are easily resharpened. For more information on this subject, see lithic reduction.\n\nLarge-grained materials, such as basalt, granite, and sandstone, may also be used as tool stones, but for a very different purpose: they are ideal for ground stone artifacts. Whereas cryptocrystalline materials are most useful for killing and processing animals, large-grained materials are usually used for processing plant matter. Their rough faces often make excellent surfaces for grinding plant seeds. With much effort, some large-grained stones may be ground down into awls, adzes, and axes.\n\n"}
{"id": "57304965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57304965", "title": "Transcontinental Traverse", "text": "Transcontinental Traverse\n\nThe Transcontinental Traverse (TCT) was a geodetic survey traverse conducted in the Continental United States by the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey between 1961 and 1976. It was the most accurate large-area survey ever done prior to Global Positioning System surveys. TCT included over 2,700 survey stations, covered over 13,600 miles, and passed through 44 states. \n\nThis nationwide survey increased the accuracy of the existing U.S. survey network. It was also fundamental to the sophisticated mathematical readjustment of the nation's survey network known as the North American Datum of 1983. It was the \"end of an era\" as the last conventional, purely terrestrial large scale survey.\n\nThe first major transcontinental survey was the Transcontinental Arc of Triangulation, completed in 1896 along the 39th parallel north with coastal endpoints at Cape May, New Jersey, and Point Arena, California lighthouses. It established the Meades Ranch survey marker, also called the Geodetic Center of the United States.\n\nThe Transcontinental Traverse, commonly known as the \"TCT\", grew out of smaller surveying projects that the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey (C&GS) conducted for the U.S. Air Force missile-tracking program in an area near Cape Canaveral, Florida, during the 1960s. C&GS developed unique specifications for this work that resulted in one part in 1,000,000, exceeding Air Force requirements. This led C&GS officials to conclude that applying the same specifications to a nationwide traverse, a surveying method, would dramatically improve the scale of the entire U.S. survey network. Soon after completing its work for the Air Force in Florida in 1961, C&GS embarked on the TCT.\n\nThe Geodimeter electronic distance measurement device was rapidly tested and adopted by national agencies for long-distance mapping. The last base line to be measured with tape happened near Salmon, Idaho in 1958.\n\nThe survey began in 1961 in Florida and ended in 1976 in Michigan. It crisscrossed North America along three east-west and five north-south corridors. A portion that had been planned to traverse the US-Canada border to Maine was canceled due to advances in satellite geodesy.\n\nThe traverse made use of the geodimeter, a lightwave phase electronic distance measurement instrument that had just been invented when the traverse began. The instruments were located atop Bilby towers many meters above ground level to avoid obscuring objects and to get a smoother air temperature profile for accuracy. Due to the light source then in use, the geodimeter could only be operated at night.\n\nPhotographic satellite triangulation stations were tied in to the traverse at Moses Lake, Washington; Chandler, Minnesota; Beltsville, Maryland; and four other locations. The Maryland and Washington State sites became part of a worldwide satellite geodesy network.\n\n\n\n in \"NOAA Celebrates 200 years\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10504509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10504509", "title": "Voting at Melodifestivalen", "text": "Voting at Melodifestivalen\n\nThere have been many voting systems used at Melodifestivalen over the course of its history. The Swedish broadcasters have experimented with various techniques over the years including splitting the juries by age, regional voting and an \"expert\" jury. Televoting was controversially first introduced in 1993, as an unannounced experiment. The Swedish telephone network promptly collapsed under the strain of phone calls being made.\n\nTelevoting was permanently reintroduced in 1999, but the regional jury system was retained, and given a 50% weighting in the overall results. In 2011 the regional juries were abolished and their task was given to juries from other countries that participate in the year's Eurovision Song Contest. 2015 saw the introduction of a mobile app that allowed the public to vote for their favourite entries for free, but only when the songs were being performed. Although used in all semi-finals and the Second Chance round, the app votes were not used in the final due to the system becoming overloaded and ceasing to function about half an hour into the show. The current voting system has been controversial, as it is possible for the song which receives the most votes from the public not to win, as happened in 2005, 2008, 2013 and 2017.\n\nThe current televoting/appvoting record is 12,634,477 votes in the Melodifestivalen 2016 final.\n\nIn the event of a tie, the song that received more votes from the public receives the higher position. The closest victories are Tommy Körberg's in 1969 and Björn Skifs' in 1978. In 1969, Körberg tied for first place with Jan Malmsjö before winning after the jury voted for their favourite out of the two. In 1978, Björn Skifs tied for first place with Lasse Holm, Kikki Danielsson and Wizex; but won after each jury was called to vote for their favourite out of the tied songs. Unlike in 1969, each jury \"group\" (rather than individual jury members) counted for one point in the tie-break.\n\nSince the current voting system was introduced, results have been more clear-cut. The televoters and juries agreed on the winner in seven out of nine finals between 1999 and 2007. The closest victory since 1999 is Sanna Nielsen's two-point win in 2014. The biggest victory by straight-points in the history of the event is ABBA's win in 1974 with 302 points. Under the current voting system the record is 288 points, achieved by Måns Zelmerlöw in 2015 with the song \"Heroes\". The entry also broke the record for the biggest difference between the winning and second placed song, with 149 points between it and Jon Henrik Fjällgren's \"Jag är fri (Manne leam frijje)\". \"Heroes\" also garnered the largest amount of both jury and viewer points received by an entry since 1999, gathering 122 points and 166 points, respectively. Two songs have scored top marks from each voting region: Carola Häggkvist in 1983 with \"Främling\", and Arvingarna in 1993 with \"Eloise\". However, in 1993, experimental televoting was used and the two are not entirely comparable. The biggest victory in terms of points as a percentage of the total possible score is also held by Carola and \"Främling\", which defeated Kikki Danielsson's \"Varför är kärleken röd?\" by 43 points, 48% of the total potential mark.\n\nUntil 2010 each jury represented one of SVT news districts. In 2010 six juries were replaced by international juries from different European countries, with the remaining juries coming from Luleå, Umeå, Gothenburg, Malmö and Stockholm. In 2011 the Swedish were all replaced by international juries. In 2013 and 2014, all Big 5 countries cast their votes.\n"}
