{"id": "26160818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26160818", "title": "1998 Cambodian League", "text": "1998 Cambodian League\n\nStatistics of Cambodian League in the 1998 season.\n\nRoyal Dolphins won the championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "24676507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24676507", "title": "2007 Vuelta a Venezuela", "text": "2007 Vuelta a Venezuela\n\nThe 44th edition of the annual Vuelta a Venezuela was held from August 27 to September 9, 2007. The stage race started with an Individual Time Trial (18.8 km) in Carúpano, and ended in Caracas.\n\n"}
{"id": "26301864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26301864", "title": "2009–10 Cuban National Series", "text": "2009–10 Cuban National Series\n\nThe 49th Cuban National Series was won by Industriales over Villa Clara. Sancti Spíritus, who had the best regular season record, lost in the first round. Defending champion La Habana were eliminated in the semifinals.\n"}
{"id": "52264576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52264576", "title": "2014 in aquatic sports", "text": "2014 in aquatic sports\n\nThis article lists the in the water and on the water forms of aquatic sports for 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48742316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48742316", "title": "2017 ASEAN Para Games", "text": "2017 ASEAN Para Games\n\nThe 2017 ASEAN Para Games (), officially known as the 9th ASEAN Para Games (), was a Southeast Asian disabled multi-sport event held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 17 days after the 2017 Southeast Asian Games from 17 to 23 September 2017. This was the third time Malaysia host the ASEAN Para Games and its first time since 2009. Previously, Malaysia also hosted the inaugural games in 2001.\n\nAround 1452 athletes participated at the event, which featured 369 events in 16 sports. It was opened by the Prime Minister of Malaysia, Najib Razak at the Bukit Jalil National Stadium.\n\nThe final medal tally was led by Indonesia, followed by host Malaysia and Thailand, while East Timor won its first ever ASEAN Para Games gold medals. Several Games and National records were broken during the games. The Games were deemed generally successful with its effective management of cost spent to host the games, arrangement of public transport and games promotion, commitment in environment conservation and with the rising standard of disabled sports competition amongst the Southeast Asian nations.\n\nAs per ASEAN Para Games traditions, the games are usually held after every Southeast Asian Games and usually the host country of the Southeast Asian Games is also the host of the ASEAN Para Games. Like the Southeast Asian Games, each country is assigned a year to host but may choose to do so or not.\n\nPreviously, in July 2012, the SEAGF meeting in Myanmar confirmed that Malaysia would host the Southeast Asian Games in 2017, should there be no other country willing to bid for the host job. Olympic Council of Malaysia (OCM) secretary general Sieh Kok Chi, who attended the meeting, said that Myanmar would host the Games in 2013, followed by Singapore in 2015. Then it should be Brunei's turn but it wanted to host the 2019 Games instead of the 2017 edition. Malaysia is willing to be the host for the 2017 Games. This means the hosting rights of the ASEAN Para Games automatically goes to Malaysia, which will host the games two weeks after the end of the 2017 Southeast Asian Games.\n\nOn 12 May 2016, a meeting was held between Olympic Council of Malaysia (OCM) and the Paralympic Council of Malaysia (PCM) to discuss the possibilities of organising the 2017 Southeast Asian Games and the 2017 ASEAN Para Games simultaneously and the merger of the two games. The same topic was also discussed at the Asean Para Sports Federation Board of Governors meeting on 7 June 2016. By 14 July, the proposal has been rejected by SEA Games Federation (SEAGF) Council, with 9 member countries have opposed the proposal while only two (Malaysia and Laos) agreed, citing the reason for the rejection was due to the tradition and culture that has long been maintained by SEAGF. Hence, the date of the 2017 ASEAN Para Games was set from 17 to 23 September 2017.\n\nThe Malaysia SEA Games Organising Committee (MASOC) is the governing body for the 2017 ASEAN Para Games. It was formed in 2015 to oversee the staging of the event.\n\nThe 2017 ASEAN Para Games was held around the Klang Valley area, consists of Kuala Lumpur, Selangor, Putrajaya and Negeri Sembilan.\n\nAll the existing venues in Bukit Jalil National Sports Complex were upgraded while the velodrome, costed MYR 80 million was built in Nilai, Negeri Sembilan to host track cycling events and was completed on late March 2017 and opened on 26 May 2017. They were equipped with disabled-friendly facilities prior to the games.\n\nMore than RM1.6 billion has been allocated by the host country to turn the National Sports Complex in Bukit Jalil, Kuala Lumpur, and its surrounding areas into a Sports City. The first phase of the work will get the Bukit Jalil National Stadium ready to host the 2017 Southeast Asia Games and the 9th ASEAN Para Games.\n\nA games village was not built. Instead, a \"village in the city\" concept saw athletes and officials housed in 6 hotels in the area. Besides being physically near to the Sports City, it was hoped that it will add vibe to the nation and reduce post-games costs in converting a dedicated games village to other uses.\n\nThe 9th ASEAN Para Games had 17 venues for the games. 14 in Kuala Lumpur and 1 each in Selangor, Putrajaya and Negeri Sembilan respectively.\n\nPrasarana became one of the 2017 ASEAN Para Games sponsors as “Official Public Transport Service Provider” on 9 May 2017 during the SEA Games 100-days countdown celebration. The company provided 60 buses for the participating athletes throughout the games and cars for technical officers and guests.\n\nThe organisers estimated that about 20,000 volunteers are needed to successfully host the SEA games and the ASEAN Para Games. They were tasked with a variety of duties, such as scorekeeping, crowd control, ticketing, promotions. Volunteer recruitment began on 14 November 2015, the same date as the launch party of the games logo, theme and mascot until July 2017, in which 50,000 people have signed up as volunteers. The Games Volunteer Program was held at the National University of Malaysia in Bangi in four phases from February to June. On 19 July 2017, of the 50,000 online applicants, 13,000 people were selected to be the games volunteer. 9,000 people were chosen to be the volunteer of the 2017 Southeast Asian Games, whereas another 4,000 people were chosen to be the volunteer of the 2017 ASEAN Para Games.\n\nOn 4 July 2017, it was announced that no paid tickets are required for the ASEAN Para Games events and the entry to the games' venues is entirely free.\n\nDuring the closing ceremony of the 2015 ASEAN Para Games, the ASEAN Para Sports Federation Flag was formally handed over to Malaysia from Singapore. This was followed by a song and dance section highlighting Malaysia as the next venue. On 14 November 2015, a launch party was held at the Suria KLCC to launch the logo, mascot and the volunteer recruitment programme.\n\nOn 19 August 2016, a series of festivities, dubbed the \"Wau Factor\" were held at the National Sports Council Centre in Setiawangsa, to mark the one-year countdown to the games. From 2 March to 20 May 2017 Malaysia SEA Games organising committee organised a school tour programme dubbed the KL2017@Schools programme at 33 selected schools across Peninsular Malaysia to instill awareness about the games amongst the school students.\n\nOn 9 May 2017, Malaysia SEA Games Organising committee organised a major countdown event at KL Sentral to mark the 100-day countdown in a few days which was attended by athletes, officials, Para athletes, stakeholders, sponsors and volunteers. After that, various individuals and organisations marked the games countdown through a video tribute. This included: Kyopropaganda and Malaysia SEA Games Organising Committee (100, 100-people mass exercise), Ipan Bender (90, 90 High Fives), Intan Sarah and National Women Futsal teammates (80, Ball-juggling 80 times), Aminemo and the Royal Malaysian Police Personnel (70, 70 times push-ups in 7 different ways), Superpandy, Farhan Kapoor and the scouts (60, Building a tower of bottles in 60 seconds using 100 Plus bottles), Joseph Germani and Malaysia Basketball Association trainees (50, score 50 basketball shots), Olivia Shyan and the SK Taman Megah students (40, plant 40 plants), Ahmad Aiman and 30 locals (30, 30-people teh tarik relay), Muhammad Rezza, Akwa Ariffin and 20 tai-chi practitioners (20, doing Tai Chi with 20 practitioners), Joseph Germani and the Fire and Rescue Department of Malaysia personnel (10, doing 10 times burpees), Farhan Hadi, Preston Les and Tanesh (3, doing three-legged race), Ain Suhada and Iqbal Harun (2, Exercise with a Partner) and Miss Alvy, Yasmin Matthews, Khor Adrian and Raj Mahal (1, paint a number 1 sculpture bearing the stripes of the games logo with a group of people).\n\nThe principal agency to ensure the security of the games is the Royal Malaysian Police Force. Six drills were held to prepare the police force to face any unpredicted situations.\n\nSimilar to the 2017 Southeast Asian Games, the medals of the games were designed by Royal Selangor, which is also the designer company for the torch and the baton. They were announced on 30 May 2017, the same day Royal Selangor announced as one of the games main sponsor which made MASOC's sponsorship total RM82.6 million, exceeded its sponsorship target of RM80 million. The medals have subtle curved surfaces, rims and edges, and are made of pewter with a disc of kempas wood integrated into the design. They featured the ASEAN Para Sports Federation logo on the obverse, and the games logo on the reverse.\n\nThe games baton relay dubbed the Rising Together Baton Run, shares the same route as the baton relay of the 2017 Southeast Asian Games and is the first of its kind in the history of ASEAN Para Games. It covered a distance of 10 kilometres on average in the 10 capital cities of the Southeast Asian Region countries, excluding the host country, passing through the landmarks of each countries' capital city. The baton relay began with Brunei on 5 March 2017, followed by the Philippines on 12 March, Laos on 18 March, Myanmar on 25 March, Thailand on 1 April, Vietnam on 9 April, East Timor on 17 April, Cambodia on 22 April and Indonesia on 30 April and ended with Singapore on 13 May 2017. The games baton was designed by Royal Selangor which sold the baton to the public at MYR 1480 and its design was inspired by the games' theme, rising together. Its design depicts shards and a triangular cross section. The baton has a length of 400 mm, a width of 44 mm, weighs approximately 600g and made up of materials which are a stave in kempas, a tawny wood native to Southeast Asia, and a satin-finished pewter finial.\n\nThe same day the baton relay ended in Singapore, the torch relay was held across the country began with the state of Johor until 18 May 2017, followed by Malacca from 18 to 21 May 2017, Negeri Sembilan from 22 to 25 May, Labuan from 3 to 4 June, Sabah from 5 to 8 June, Sarawak from 8 to 13 June, Perlis from 15 to 17 June, Kedah from 17 to 20 June, Penang from 3 to 6 July, Perak from 7 to 12 July, Kelantan from 13 to 17 July, Terengganu from 17 to 23 July, Pahang from 24 to 30 July, Selangor from 31 July to 5 August, Putrajaya on 6 August and ended with the host city Kuala Lumpur on 12 August 2017. The games torch has a length of 125 mm, width of 86 mm and a height of 850 mm and weighs 2 kg with fuel and 1.8 kg without fuel. Like the baton, the torch was designed too by Royal Selangor. It has a sleek custom-milled combustion chamber and a triangular cross section which symbolises strength in unity and has the games logo and motto, the SEA Games and the ASEAN Para Games logo emblazoned on it.\n\nAs an aspect of staging the games, the Games organising committee committed to a focus on sustainability and environmental protection by launching the Kuala Lumpur 2017 Green Initiatives on 5 June 2017. Among the activities of the initiative is the ‘One Medal, One Tree’ programme aimed at having a total of 5,249 trees be planted in and around Kuala Lumpur Sports City, one for each medal awarded to winning athlete during the games which is divided into three phases. Other activities included providing waste recycling bins at games' main venue, providing public transportation and providing electric car facilities at selected spots of the games' main venue.\n\nSimilar to the 2017 Southeast Asian Games, the official motto of the 2017 ASEAN Para Games is \"Rising Together\" or \"Bangkit Bersama\" in Malay. It was chosen to highlight unity between the nations in Southeast Asia as well as to signify the Kuala Lumpur games as the first ASEAN Para Games to be held after the formation of the ASEAN Community in 2015.\n\nSimilar to the 2017 Southeast Asian Games, the logo of the 2017 ASEAN Para Games is an image of a Wau Bulan, a crescent-shaped kite traditionally popular on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia. The combination of stripes and colours of the logo were derived from the flags of all countries in Southeast Asia. A nationwide competition was held to select the logo of the games which saw a total of 174 entries submitted for the design competition. The Kuala Lumpur 2017 logo, made by combining the games' logo with the logo of 2017 Southeast Asian Games is sometimes used by the organisers to reflect the common relationship as Parallel games of one another with SEA Games being held for the able-bodied athletes and the ASEAN Para games held for the disabled athletes.\n\nSimilar to the 2017 Southeast Asian Games, the official mascot of the 2017 ASEAN Para Games is an anthropomorphic Malayan tiger named \"Rimau\". It was unveiled on 14 November 2015, together with the games' logo and theme. The mascot's name is not only a Malay word for Tiger, but also an abbreviation of the games' core values, namely: Respect, Integrity, Move, Attitude and Unity. He is described as a gracious, friendly, competitive and athletic athlete.\n\nThe 2017 ASEAN Para Games had 4 theme songs. During the 100 day countdown to SEA Games celebration on 9 May 2017, Malaysians were requested by singer Dayang Nurfaizah and composer Ramli MS to submit their ideas and stories related to the games' theme \"Rising Together\" to social network websites through a crowdsourcing campaign to enable them to create the games theme song. On 8 August 2017, one theme song for the games has been released and is entitled \"Rising Together\" (Bangkit Bersama).\n\nOn 2 August 2017, a theme song titled \"Tunjuk Belang\" (Show The Stripes) was released. It was performed by monoloQue, Azlan Typewriter and maliQue. The song is described as a rock song which merges \"traditional and modern sounds\". The composer and producer of the song is maliQue. The title of the song literally means showing off one's true colours in English and \"Belang\" means stripes alluding to the mascot of the games, shown above.\n\nAnother theme song was released earlier on 13 July 2017, titled \"So Many Hands\" (Tangan-Tangan Yang Menjulang) and was performed by Mia Palencia in English and Asmidar in Malay which is the song of the Kuala Lumpur 2017 Promo Video, \"It Takes a Nation to Raise a Champion\" (Bersama Kita Lahirkan Juara).\n\nA closing theme song for the Games, \"Together We Rise\" was released on 30 August 2017. It was performed by Vince Chong and Jaclyn Victor.\n\nLike the 2017 Southeast Asian Games, Dentsu Sports Asia, a subsidiary of Dentsu and the Sportswork Group are the sponsorship agencies of the 2017 ASEAN Para Games. The partnership of the two firms were announced in January 2016. Dentsu is responsible for manages sponsorship matters involving international and Malaysian firms while Sportswork manages Malaysian government linked companies\n\nThere are four tiers of sponsorship depending on the amount of funds a company contributes to the games. Bronze sponsors contributed RM1 million or less, Silver sponsors contributed RM1 to 3 million. Gold sponsors contributed RM3 to 7.5 million and Platinum sponsors contributed RM7.5 to 15 million.\n\nA total of 39 sponsors, comprising 6 Platinum sponsors, 6 Gold sponsors, 9 Silver sponsors and 18 Bronze sponsors, contributed to the 2017 ASEAN Para Games.\n\nThe opening ceremony was held in Bukit Jalil National Stadium on 17 September 2017 at 20:17 MST () which highlighted aspects of disabled people overcoming challenges in life. The ceremony was directed by film director Saw Teong Hin alongside the Memories Entertainment creative team with co-operation from the Malaysian Armed Forces. The time 20:17 was chosen to start the opening ceremony to mark the year 2017, the year which Malaysia hosted the 9th ASEAN Para Games.\n\nA minute of silence was held before the ceremony to mourn the passing of the 14th Yang di-Pertuan Agong and the 28th Sultan of Kedah, Sultan Abdul Halim and the victims of the Tahfiz Darul Quran Ittifaqiyah religious school fire in Petaling Jaya. The ceremony begins with the arrival of the Prime Minister of Malaysia, Najib Razak and his wife Rosmah Mansor. The National Anthem of Malaysia, Negaraku was performed by Malaysian Armed Forces band as the national flag was raised. This was followed by the countdown projection, the video of several Malaysian children carrying the flags of the participating nations and the projection of the games logo on the stage centre. After that, the national flags of the participating nations, the ASEAN Para Sports Federation flag and the edition flag, were brought into the stadium to symbolise the welcoming of the participants by Malaysia, the games' host nation. \"Rimau\", the mascot of the Games then entered the stadium in a wheelchair after the Volunteers form the shape of the mascot's head as the projection of the mascot's head appears on the stage centre. \n\nNext, the parade of athletes from all 11 competing nations started with Brunei leading the field in alphabetical order and ended with the host nation, Malaysia entering the stadium last. The Bruneian contingent was led by Sahri bin Hj Jumaat of Athletics. The Cambodian contingent was led by Yav Vannak of Swimming. The Indonesian contingent was led by Anto Boi of Powerlifting. The Lao contingent was led by Pia of Powerlifting. The Myanmar contingent was led by Si Thu Min of Table tennis. The Filipino contingent was led by Menandro Junni Redor of Chess. The Singaporean contingent was led by Suhairi Bin Suhani of Athletics. The Thai contingent was led by Wannaruemon Kewalin of Athletics. The East Timorese contingent was led by Maria Julieta A Da Cruz of Boccia. The Vietnamese contingent was led by Le Van Cong of Powerlifting. Meanwhile, the Malaysian contingent was led by the unprecedented duo of 2016 Summer Paralympics gold medalists, Muhammad Ziyad Zolkefli and Abdul Latif Romly. A video featuring Malaysian notable Paralympic athletes and rapper Aman RA entitled I am Here was also shown.\n\nThe 10-minute performance of the ceremony, We Are One told the story of the disabled people desire of integration into the society. It featured violin performance by Malaysian Para Swimmer and Violinist Yeo Yi Lin, sape performance by Alena Murang and Stephen Kayang, Bamboo flute performance by Ramlan Koyok and piano performance by Clarence Kang. Yuna makes her appearance at the stadium, performed the song, Rescue accompanied by performers and dancers on stage, from The Beautiful Gate Foundation, Malaysian Down Syndrome Society, United Voice Self Advocacy Society of Persons with Learning Disabilities Selangor & Kuala Lumpur, Pusat Penjagaan Kanak-Kanak Cacat Taman Megah and Farah Sulaiman Dancing Troupe. In keeping with tradition, welcoming speeches were given by the President of the ASEAN Para Sports Federation Osoth Bhavilai and Malaysia's Youth and Sports Minister Khairy Jamaluddin. The former and current Paralympic medalists, national sportsmen and sportswomen Mohamad Khasseri Othman, Perumal Mariappan, Nabilah Ahmad Sharif, Cheok Kon Fatt, Norhayati Sanoh, Siow Lee Chan, Felicia Mikat, Zul Amirul Sidi Abdullah, Hemala Devi Enikutty, Faridul Masri and Siti Nor Liasah Mohd Ariffin leaded the Royal Malaysian Navy Personnel who carried the Games Federation flag and the games edition flag into the stadium. The flags were then raised by the Navy personnel at the centre stage.\n\nAfter that, Prime Minister Najib declared the games opened. Sharifah Raudzah Syed Akil took the oath for athletes, while Teo Kian Joo took the oath for the judges. The cauldron was lit by Hasihin Sanawi, 2012 Summer Paralympics Archery bronze medalist with support from Para cycling World championship bronze medalist Muhammad Afiq Afify, 2015 ASEAN Para Games athletics silver medalist Krishna Kumar Haridas, 2016 Summer Paralympics Bronze medalist Noor Radiah Ismail and 2015 ASEAN Para Games swimming Gold medalist Fraidden Dawan. Hasihin lit the torch flame on the cauldron's segment which is suspended by wire, while Afify, Krishna, Noor and Fraidden move the pedal to push the segment towards the cauldron along the wire. The cauldron of the Games is similar to the 2017 Southeast Asian Games' cauldron. Its design was inspired by the traditional Malaysian oil torches used to welcome guests during festivals, and was to symbolise national unity. It had five spokes inscribed with the Rukun Negara and the colour gold served to honour Malaysia’s monarch, as well as a nod to the highest award at the biennial games. The ceremony concluded with a colourful fireworks display erupted over the National Stadium, signalling the official commencement of the Games.\n\nThe closing ceremony was held in Bukit Jalil National Stadium on 23 September 2017 at 20:30 MST (UTC+8). Like the opening ceremony, the closing ceremony was directed by film director Saw Teong Hin alongside the Memories Entertainment creative team with co-operation from the Malaysian Armed Forces.\n\nThe ceremony begins with the arrival of the Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia, Ahmad Zahid Hamidi. The National Anthem of Malaysia, Negaraku was performed by Malaysian Armed Forces band as the national flag was raised. Flags of the participating nations, the Federation flag and the Games edition flag were brought into the stadium. This was followed by the parade of athletes from 11 nations and Rimau entering the stage with Malaysia entering the stadium last. The parade of volunteers started with the volunteers dancing to Faizal Tahir's hit single, \"Gemuruh\", followed by a video shot of several volunteers and top para athletes and Minister of Youth and Sports, Khairy Jamaluddin. A cultural performance titled \"Sama-sama\", a sign of gratitude for Malaysia being given the opportunity to host the games, was presented.\n\nClosing speeches were given by the President of the Malaysia Paralympic Council, SM Nasarudin SM Nasimuddin and ASEAN Para Sports Federation President, Osoth Bhavilai. Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia Ahmad Zahid Hamidi then declared the 2017 ASEAN Para Games closed. A video about the participating athletes performing throughout the games, featuring some Malaysian sports medalists and their coaches with Jaclyn Victor and Vince Chong song, \"Together We Rise\" as background music, was played followed by the extinguishing of the cauldron and the lowering of the APSF flag by the Royal Malaysian Navy. The ASEAN Para Sports Federation flag was handed over from the Malaysian Paralympic Council President to the Philippines Paralympic Council President, Michael I. Barredo through Minister of the Youth and Sports of Malaysia, and APSF President. The National Anthem of the Philippines, Lupang Hinirang was played and the Philippines flag was raised, symbolising the hosting responsibilities being passed to Philippines. A video of the Philippines tourism featuring Philippines Para athletes was later shown. The ceremony concluded with a special concert by Yuna and fireworks erupted over the stadium, signalling the official conclusion of the games.\n\nSome 1,452 athletes from all 11 ASEAN countries participated in the Games. East Timor returned to compete at the ASEAN Para Games for the first time since 2011 after its suspension by the International Paralympic Committee had been lifted, enabled it to compete at the Rio Paralympic Games a year ago.\n\n16 Para Sports with 369 events have been included in the games.\n\n\n\nThe 2017 ASEAN Para Games featured 369 events, resulting in 369 medal sets to be distributed.\n\nTwo bronze medals were awarded in most events in racket sports: 11 in Badminton, 18 in Table tennis and 3 in Wheelchair tennis. Furthermore, there was a third-place tie in the Bowling mixed doubles TPB8+TPB8 event, giving a total of 33 additional bronze medals. On the other hand, 7 silver and 28 bronze medals were not awarded in 28 events in 6 sports competed at the games due to few number of participants. These are: Athletics (2 silver and 9 bronze), Boccia (1 bronze), Cycling (2 silver and 4 bronze), Powerlifting (1 silver and 5 bronze), Swimming (2 silver and 7 bronze) and Table tennis (2 bronze).\n\nAs a result, a total of 1105 medals comprising 369 gold medals, 362 silver medals and 374 bronze medals were awarded to athletes.\n\nThe Host Malaysia's performance was their third best in ASEAN Para Games History and was second behind Indonesia as overall Champion. Meanwhile, despite small contingent size, East Timor managed to win its first ever ASEAN Para Games gold medals, all 2 of them are from athletics.\nThe organiser hosted the live video stream at its YouTube channel for the opening and closing ceremonies and 5 sport events namely, Swimming, Cycling, Powerlifting, Athletics and Wheelchair basketball. An official mobile application for the games was also released which featured live streams of selected sports events, schedules, results and other promotional materials. Radio Televisyen Malaysia (RTM TV1) and People's Television Network (PTV-4) serves as the official broadcaster of the games in Malaysia and the Philippines respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19284660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19284660", "title": "72nd Anniversary Stadium (Min Buri)", "text": "72nd Anniversary Stadium (Min Buri)\n\n72nd Anniversary Min Buri Stadium or Chalerm Phrakiat Min Buri Stadium () is a multi-purpose stadium in Min Buri, Bangkok, Thailand. The stadium built for celebration of the 72nd Birthday Anniversary of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, hence the name of the venue. It is used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Thai Honda. The stadium holds 10,000 people and consists of two large single-tier stands on each side of the pitch. There is no accommodation at either end. Only one of the stands has a cover: a cantilever roof that resembles a giant spoiler from a Formula One car. This stand has red seats fitted to the area underneath the roof. The rest of the stadium is unseated.\n\n"}
{"id": "31484259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31484259", "title": "AD Lautem", "text": "AD Lautem\n\nAd. Lautem or Associação Desportiva Lautem is a football club of East Timor from Lautém District. The team plays in the Taça Digicel.\n\n\"As of May 2011:\"\n"}
{"id": "1130122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1130122", "title": "Apertura and Clausura", "text": "Apertura and Clausura\n\nThe and tournaments is a split season format for sports leagues. It is a relatively recent innovation for many Latin American football leagues in which the traditional association football season from August to May is divided in two sections per season, each with its own champion. ' and ' are the Spanish words for \"opening\" and \"closing\". In French-speaking Haiti, these are known as the ' and the ', while in English-speaking Belize, they are respectively the \"Opening\" and \"Closing\" seasons. The North American Soccer League (NASL) adopted a split season in 2013; the season is divided into a \"Spring Championship\" and \"Fall Championship\".\n\nThe \"\" is held in the first half of the calendar year in Colombia, Haiti and Paraguay while it is held in the second half of the calendar year in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua and Venezuela.\n\nThe words ' and ' are used in most Latin American countries. Some, however, use different terminology:\n\nIn most leagues, each tournament constitutes a national championship in itself. On the other hand, in the leagues of Nicaragua, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela, the winners of the ' and ' play each other in a playoff for the season title, or there is a final stage where teams qualify based on placements in the ' and '. Thus, two championship titles are awarded per year in the first group of leagues, and only one in the second. In Mexico and Colombia, for instance, the winners of each tournament play each other at the beginning of the following season for another title, but this is a rather minor season curtain-raiser, akin to national Super Cups in European leagues. Some ' and ' tournaments also have second stages to decide the winner.\n\nIn leagues with 12 or fewer teams, each ' and ' has a double round-robin format, as a means to fill in the gaps caused by the lack of elimination cup competitions as in most European countries. In leagues with 16 or more teams, each tournament has a single round-robin format.\n\nRelegations, if any, are done on an aggregate basis; usually the combined table for both tournaments determine relegation placements. In some leagues, the average points over the previous two or three seasons are used to determine relegation.\n\nPeru abolished its ' and ' format after the 2008 season but brought it back for the 2014 season. Ecuador adopted the ' and ' in 2005 featuring two champions in the season, however, its subsequent tournaments renamed the ' and ' as first and second stages, respectively, with the top placed teams advancing to a third stage to determine the champion and international qualification. Starting in 2009, the Ecuadorian championships were decided by a final between stage or group winners, maintaining the half-year tournament format. Argentine Football Association (AFA) president Julio Grondona proposed in December 2008 the return to a single championship per season format, and at the conclusion of the 2014 \"\" season this happened, with the 2015 season taking a European style year long season from February to December. The AFA later decided to change its season to one spanning two calendar years; as such, the 2016 season is an abbreviated tournament held from February to May, followed by an August-to-June season from 2016–17 forward.\n\nThe Premier League of Belize, created in 2012 by the merger of two rival top-level leagues, began a split season in 2012–13. The Opening Season takes place in the second half of the calendar year, with the Closing Season following in the first half of the next calendar year. Like most Latin American leagues, it crowns two separate champions in each season. However, its format is significantly different from that of most other leagues, being more similar to the system used by Major League Soccer in the United States and Canada.\n\nIn the first split season (2012–13), the league's 12 teams were divided into two six-team zones. During the first half of the season, every team played a double round-robin within its zone, plus single games against four teams from the opposite zone, resulting in a 14-game schedule. The top two teams from each zone qualified for a playoff round, with the top team from each zone matched against the second-place team from the other zone in the two-legged semifinals. The semifinal winners advanced to a two-legged final. In the second half of the season, only eight of the initial 12 teams competed; all teams played a double round-robin in that half of the season, followed by a four-team knockout playoff (again two-legged throughout).\n\nThe number of teams participating in the top flight dropped to seven for the 2013–14 season. Each half of that season will have the same format as the 2013 Closing Season.\n\nThe Brazilian national league is a notable tournament in Latin America not to split the season into two parts, using a single-season double round-robin format to decide the champions, similar to those in European leagues, though played between May and December. Brazilian clubs also participate in the state leagues from January to April, some of which do feature a split season format. Brazil also has, unlike most Latin American nations, a national cup.\n\nFor most of its history (except in 1996) the J. League in Japan had a similar system for its first division, although it was called 1st Stage and 2nd Stage. The seasons became unified in 2005, partially to avoid conflicts with the Emperor's Cup. It briefly resumed the same format for 2015 and 2016 seasons.\n\nThe K-League of South Korea also had the same system in 1984, 1986, 1995, 2004, 2005, and 2006. In 2007, it again became unified because of confusion among fans.\n\nThe NASL adopted a split-season format in 2013, divided into Spring and Fall Championships. Following the traditional standard for soccer in the United States and Canada, the season is entirely contained within a calendar year. It follows a format more similar to that of Nicaragua, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela — each part of the season is conducted in a double round-robin format, with the winner of each part of the season advancing to a championship final known as the Soccer Bowl.\n\nIn Belgium a large reform of the Belgian football league system was performed in 2016, which reduced the number of professional teams to 24, with only 8 teams remaining at the second level, called Belgian First Division B. From the 2016–17 season, the 8 teams will play two tournaments, with the winners of both tournaments playing a two-legged playoff to determine the overall champion.\n\nAll the following leagues are their country's top national division (Div 1) unless otherwise indicated.\nIn baseball, the Double-A Southern and Texas Leagues in the United States both use a similar system, dividing the March–October regular season in half, with records being cleared mid-season, and the top teams mid-season and at the end of the season clinching spots in the playoff for the league pennant (the remainder of playoff slots being filled by wild cards). This system is used in some Single-A leagues, as well. The March–September Chinese Professional Baseball League and winter Mexican Pacific League also follow the same structure, using a team's win record in each stage to determine which advance to the playoffs. Japan's Pacific League had a split season format from 1973 to 1982, with a mini-playoff between the two winners to determine the league's champion.\n\nWhile Little League Baseball does not mandate any specific scheduling format to be used by local leagues, it recommends dividing the regular season in half and having the first-half winner play against the second-half winner at the end of the season for the championship.\n\nThe Philippine Basketball Association also conducts a split season similar in many ways to the ' and '.\n\nAll League of Legends leagues operate on a split-season system, with one split in the spring and one in the summer. The fall is reserved for each league's playoffs and the League of Legends World Championship. Qualification to the World Championship is decided through two avenues: winning the second split of the season, or, for the five biggest leagues, through a system that awards points based on a team's performance in each of the splits. Unlike most other split-season formats, the summer split is more important than the spring split; coming second in the summer split is worth as many points as winning the spring split.\n"}
{"id": "5266125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5266125", "title": "Austria national rugby union team", "text": "Austria national rugby union team\n\nAustria is a third tier rugby union playing nation. They began playing international rugby in the early 1990s. Thus far, Austria has not made an appearance at any of the World Cups.\n\nAustria played their first official international on May 3, 1992 against Hungary, losing 23 points to nine. Austria had another fixture against Hungary that year, it was the first home game, which they lost 5:3, as well as two games against Slovenia. Austria's first win came against Slovenia 21.11.1992, winning 9:5. Austria played nations such as Croatia and Ukraine as well as regulars Slovenia.\n\nFrom 1996 on Austria began winning more games, and only lost a few sporadic matches in the late 1990s, as they were now beating the European sides that had beaten them in the early 1990s. During the 2000s Austria were now playing a larger variety of nations. After not winning one game in 2002, Austria went on to win every fixture in 2004, creating an undefeated streak which was broken by Denmark in 2005.\n\nSquad to 2014 European Nations Cup - Division 2C.\n\n"}
{"id": "10526301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10526301", "title": "Best Sports Movie ESPY Award", "text": "Best Sports Movie ESPY Award\n\nThe Best Sports Movie ESPY Award was an annual award honoring the achievements of an individual from the world of sports film making. It was first awarded as part of the ESPY Awards in 2002, and was discontinued nine years later. The Best Sports Movie ESPY Award trophy, designed by sculptor Lawrence Nowlan, was bestowed annually to the sports film adjudged to be the best in a given calendar year. From 2004 onward, the winner was chosen by online voting through choices selected by the ESPN Select Nominating Committee. Before that, determination of the winners was made by an panel of experts. Through the 2001 iteration of the ESPY Awards, ceremonies were conducted in February of each year to honor achievements over the previous calendar year; awards presented thereafter are conferred in July and reflect performance from the June previous.\n\nThe inaugural winner of the Best Sports Movie ESPY Award in 2002 was the baseball themed film \"The Rookie\" released the same year. It is based on the true story of Jim Morris' minor but notable Major League Baseball career. Films that predominantly feature American football have received the award more than any other sport, with three wins and six further nominations, followed by baseball and basketball with two victories apiece, and were nominated twice. John Lee Hancock is the director who holds more victories than any one else, one for \"The Rookie,\" and a second for \"The Blind Side\" (2010). The two sports with the most nominations that did not win the award are golf and horse racing, with three each. The final winner of the Best Sports Movie ESPY Award in 2011 was the Boxing film \"The Fighter\", which centers on the lives of former professional boxers Micky Ward and Dicky Eklund, and the issues they are confronted with in both their personal and professional lives.\n\n"}
{"id": "33568099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33568099", "title": "Bhausaheb Bandodkar Ground", "text": "Bhausaheb Bandodkar Ground\n\nBhausaheb Bandodkar Ground (also known as Campal Grounds and Panjim Gymkhana Grounds) is a cricket ground in Panaji, Goa, India. The first recorded match held on the ground came in 1966 when Gujarat Governor's XI played Maharashtra Governor's XI. The first first-class to be played there came in the 1986/87 Ranji Trophy when Goa played Tamil Nadu. Between the 1986/87 season and the 2005/06 season, the ground held 26 first-class matches. The first List A match played there came when Goa played Kerala in the 1993/94 Ranji Trophy one-day competition. Fifteen further List A matches have been played on the ground, the last of which saw Andhra Pradesh play Hyderabad in the 2004/05 Ranji Trophy one-day competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "19323013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19323013", "title": "Biljanini Izvori Sports Hall", "text": "Biljanini Izvori Sports Hall\n\nThe Biljanini Izvori Sports Hall (, transliterated \"Sportska sala Biljanini Izvori\") is a multi-functional indoor sports arena. It is located in Ohrid, Republic of Macedonia. The sports hall was inaugurated in August 1998 and has a capacity of 4,000 seats for handball and 4,500 for basketball. It is used by several handball and basketball teams from Ohrid. It was one of two venues used during the 2008 European Women's Handball Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "17218037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17218037", "title": "Bowling and Cue Sports Federation of the Islamic Republic of Iran", "text": "Bowling and Cue Sports Federation of the Islamic Republic of Iran\n\nThe Bowling and Cue Sports Federation of the Islamic Republic of Iran, more commonly known as the Iran Bowling and Cue Sports Federation (IBCSF or IranBCS for short) is the governing body in Iran of bowling and cue sports (including snooker, carom billiards and pool). Founded in 2000, the organization was originally known as the Iran Bowling and Billiards Federation (IBBF).\n\nIBCSF is member of the Iran National Olympic Committee, and is also the national affiliate of Fédération Internationale des Quilleurs, World Tenpin Bowling Association, the Asian Confederation of Billiard Sports (regional division of the World Confederation of Billiards Sports), International Billiards and Snooker Federation and World Pool-Billiard Association, and Asian Pocket Billiard Union as the governing body of these sports in Iran.\n\n"}
{"id": "7810334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7810334", "title": "Burma at the 1964 Summer Olympics", "text": "Burma at the 1964 Summer Olympics\n\nBurma competed at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. Eleven competitors, all men, took part in eleven events in five sports.\n\nTwo shooters represented Burma in 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "54327402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54327402", "title": "Campeonato Nacional de Boxeo Playa Girón", "text": "Campeonato Nacional de Boxeo Playa Girón\n\nThe Campeonato Nacional de Boxeo Playa Girón or Torneo Playa Girón is the yearly Cuban amateur boxing championship. A group of boxers represent each Cuban province, with the winner in each weight class being declared the national champion. The province whose boxers obtain the best results wins the tournament as well.. The first edition took place in March of 1962. Currently, the tournament is held every December and it is recognized by AIBA..\nThe following is a list of boxers who have won the tournament 5 or more times. Boldface denotes active boxers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1507569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1507569", "title": "Cole Field House", "text": "Cole Field House\n\nThe William P. Cole, Jr. Student Activities Building, commonly known as Cole Field House, is an indoor collegiate sports training complex located on of land on the campus of the University of Maryland in College Park, a suburb north of Washington, D.C. Cole Field House is situated in the center of the campus, adjacent to Capital One Field at Maryland Stadium, near Stamp Student Union and McKeldin Library. The building was constructed between 1952 and 1955 at a cost of $3.3 million ($ in 2018 ) and served for nearly 50 years as the home court of the Maryland Terrapins men's and women's basketball teams. A multi-phase, $196 million renovation commenced in 2015 to transform the 14,956-seat basketball arena into a sports and academic complex that includes an indoor practice facility and operations center for the university's football program, a sports science and sports medical research center, and an incubator for entrepreneurs. \n\nCole Field House Performance Center, the indoor practice facility and operations center for the Maryland Terrapins football team (Big Ten Conference), opened in 2017. Though the facility is primarily used for football, it also used for training by the school's men's and women's lacrosse teams The second phase of renovation, which began in late-2017, includes the construction of a addition to the complex and is expected to be completed in 2019.. This new structure will also include a space for the school’s Academy for Innovation and Entrepreneurship and the Center for Sports Medicine, Health and Human Performance, a sports medicine education, investigation and clinical care center operated in partnership with the University of Maryland, Baltimore. \n\nCole Field House Performance Center, the indoor practice facility, opened in August 2017 and features a full-length, 100-yard-long FieldTurf football field with a goal post at each end surrounded by an elevated concourse. With a nearly height clearance from the field to the center of the roof, the facility ranks among the highest headrooms in any NCAA practice facility. When completed, the facility will include two full-length outdoor football practice fields, locker rooms, a strength and conditioning center, hydrotherapy and other training facilities, a 180-seat theater-style team meeting room, position meeting rooms, a 230-seat cafeteria, recruiting lounge, and staff offices for the university's football program. An underground tunnel will connect the Cole Field House Performance Center to Capital One Field at Maryland Stadium.\n\nThe Center for Sports Medicine Health and Human Performance is an academic research center operated in partnership with the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore as part of the MPowering the State initiative. The Center studies the treatment of sports-related conditions, including neuroscience with a specific focus on concussions and traumatic brain injury. The facility will also be a treatment center for an array of sports injuries. The Center will initially occupy a space within the Cole Field House complex, with plans to expand to a total of 60,000 square feet (5,600 m2) of space.\n\nCole Field House in 1955 opened as the \"Student Activities Building\", a 12,000-seat basketball arena. \nThe $3.3 million facility was constructed to be the home court of the university's men's basketball team. When it opened, the facility was second-largest basketball arena on the East coast. Only Madison Square Garden in NYC had a larger seating capacity. The first basketball event hosted in building was played on December 2, 1955, when the Maryland Terrapins beat the Virginia Cavaliers by the score of 67–55 in an Atlantic Coast Conference regular-season matchup. The structure was renamed the William P. Cole, Jr. Student Activities Building in 1956 in honor of Judge William P. Cole, Jr., chairman of the university's Board of Regents from 1944 to 1956. The first head men's basketball coach to call the facility home was Bud Millikan. In the late 1960s, then-head coach Lefty Driesell added nearly 3,000 seats around the court raising the hometown decibel level.\n\nCole Field House was the host site of the NCAA Basketball Tournament East Region finals in 1962, when New York University defeated St. John's in the regional final, 94–85. The NCAA Tournament Final Four was first hosted at the facility in 1966 and featured the Duke Blue Devils, Kentucky Wildcats, Texas Western (now UTEP Miners), and Utah Utes. Texas Western (which started all black players) upset Kentucky's all-white team 72–65 before 14,253 spectators. Future Hall of Fame head men's basketball coach Gary Williams, then a student, attended the game. Cole Field House also hosted the 1970 NCAA Final Four. In 1991, Cole was the site of the first-ever upset of an NCAA Tournament No. 2-seed at the hands of a No. 15-seed, as Richmond defeated heavily favored Syracuse, 73-69.\n\nCole Field House is the site of the most upsets of No. 1-ranked men's basketball teams. The Terrapins accounted for six of the upsets at Cole, while the other one occurred in the 1966 Final Four where No. 3 Texas Western defeated No. 1 Kentucky. The seventh such occurrence was on February 27, 2002, when Maryland defeated No. 1 Duke. The venues which hosted the second- and third-most No. 1 upsets are Notre Dame's Joyce Athletics & Convention Center (six) and Oklahoma's Lloyd Noble Center (five), respectively.\n\nIn the 1990s, the administration at Maryland followed a trend occurring at other schools in the ACC to seek a new facility that provided more seating and amenities than were present at Cole Field House. However, this decision brought some debate. Coach Gary Williams privately wished the team remain at Cole due to the home court advantage he received. The small, cramped arena made Cole Field House a loud and difficult place for opponents to play in.\n\nThe last Maryland men's basketball game played at Cole Field House was on March 3, 2002, when Maryland defeated Virginia 112–92. The team now plays at the XFINITY Center. Overall, 13 men's All-Americans and 4 women's All-Americans have played at Cole. Maryland men's basketball remained undefeated at Cole during its last season and went on to win the National Championship.\n\nAfter its basketball teams vacated Cole Field House, the facility was used by the university for intramural athletics and administrative offices. A soccer field constructed atop the basketball court was used as a practice facility by some athletes. The concourse also served as a makeshift track for students, faculty, and other members of the University community. When not used for athletics, the building was used for Homecoming events and classes, and held offices.\n\nThe structure had been the subject of speculation for renewal and multiple non-University-related reuses. One such plan was to build a station for the future Purple Line, a light rail line in development by the Maryland Transit Administration. The Maryland Maniacs indoor football team used Cole Field House as its home venue in 2010.\n\nOn September 24, 2013, the Maryland Athletic Department announced that the Terrapin men's and women's basketball teams would hold their Maryland Madness event on October 18 at Cole Field House. It marked the first official athletic event hosted in the facility since the Terps' new arena opened in 2002.\n\n\nOn April 28, 1973, Chuck Berry played at Cole Field House. The show was particularly notable because Berry (who did not employ a full time band) was backed by Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band.\n\n"}
{"id": "52431167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52431167", "title": "DIT F.C.", "text": "DIT F.C.\n\nDili Institute of Technology FC or DIT FC is a football club of East Timor based in Dili. The team plays in the Liga Futebol Amadora. They reached the 2016 Taça 12 de Novembro semi-finals before they lost 1-2 by the champions AS Ponta Leste.\n\nFrancisco Cosme da Souza Gama was their technical director.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4918316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4918316", "title": "Darkzone", "text": "Darkzone\n\nDarkzone, Laserzone, Megazone, Ultrazone and Zone 3 are a group of laser skirmish sites that use laser tag systems manufactured by P&C Micros of Melbourne, Australia. These systems and sites are sometimes collectively referred to as being a part of the \"Zone Empire\" and in most cases incorporate the word \"Zone\" in their name.\n\nThe names Darkzone, Zone 3. Megazone, and Laserzone are more commonly used in Australia while Ultrazone is used in the U.S.. Canada is also known to use the Darkzone name. Not all Zone Empire sites are known by these names, even in these regions; some sites use the Zone equipment and have their own distinctive name.\n\nZone sites are in the business of providing both recreational and competitive indoor laser games (or laser tag). The games require players to wear vests, or packs that contain a number of infrared sensors, and carry around a laser emitting phasor which activate these sensors and deactivate the hit player's pack and phasor for a period of time. There are many different kinds of game formats, many of which are team-based and played with three teams total. In most cases the games are played in large indoor arenas.\n\nMany Zone sites run weekly leagues in which players of various skill levels compete. Regular leagues are run in Darkzone Perth (WA), Laserzone (QLD), Zone 3 (ACT), Laser Realm (VIC) & Megazone (SA). There are also inter-site competitions, such as a North vs. South competition between the sites based in Western Australia, the two SE Queensland sites and the state competition for the Victorian sites. Once a year there is also an annual National Titles competition between sites from all over Australia and New Zealand. The National Titles has been running since 1999 and has had between 18 and 22 teams attend each year since 2004.\n\nVests, or packs, are strapped onto players, and have on them a number of sensors encased in clear plastic which are designed to detect the infrared light which is shot by the phasors. Six sensors are located on the front and back of the pack, on each shoulder and on the phasor itself. The sensors are surrounded by coloured LEDs which light up in the colour of the player's team. Players are known to be active when their pack lights are flashing. When a player's sensors are shot by another player, the player is said to be deactivated, and will remain this way for a number of seconds. During this time the player's sensors and pack lights are turned off, along with the player's phasor, so he or she cannot shoot for this time either. The player will be reactivated after a period of time that differs depending on the game's settings.\n\nThe pack's display usually holds information, such as remaining time, or power, depending on the game being played. There is a black button on the front that players can press to light up the display, or that is sometimes used to join some games called \"black button games\", where knowing how many players are participating is important. There is also a round part on the front that receives a member's login button, or login tab, which is used to attribute statistics from certain games to a member account, so that a member can see how they compare to other players over an accumulated number of games.\n\nThe phasors are relatively small and are operated by a trigger, shooting infrared light which is detected by other player's sensors, and base devices, and also emit a visible dot of red light roughly to where the phasor is aimed. The phasors are connected to the packs by a cable, and have sensors on them, on the top, like the packs do, which allow the player to receive return-fire, even when the pack sensors are hidden. The phasors also have a touch-sensitive sensor underneath them, near the front of the phasor, which a player must place their hand on while playing, otherwise will be unable to shoot. This ensures that players hold their phasors with both hands and do not carelessly drop them. However some \"cheats\" will take along items like Blu-Tac to cover the sensor, enabling one-handed shots, and many experienced players can cover the sensor and pull the trigger with the same hand. This is widely considered cheating and some newer packs seem to be less affected by these \"cheats\".\n\nBases, or base devices, are the devices located in areas around the arena. The device itself and the area around the device are both known as \"bases\" to players, although it is clear to players that the device is what is being referred to when talking about \"destroying a base\" or \"shooting at a base\" and the area around the base is being referred to when talking about \"going to a base\" or \"sitting in a base\". The device is contained by an open box which is mounted on a wall somewhere, and the device itself is hemispherical in appearance, black, and decorated by flashing lights. There are many red lights on it for decoration. However, there are three green lights located around it which are also sensors and which players shoot at; inexperienced players often have trouble because they aim at the red lights, which are not sensors. If a player shoots the base a sufficient number of times (determined by the game's settings), the player will eventually deactivate or \"destroy\" the base, which means that the player has just collected a large number of points for their team, and also that the base has been deactivated for a period of time. Depending on the game's settings, the base may shoot back once it has been deactivated, or while a player is shooting at it. Players hit by a base are deactivated for a period of time. In some games, the bases are used for completely different purposes, or not at all.\n\nIn games in which bases are used, a particular focus is placed on the bases because often they are the largest source of points for players. In games such as these, common team tactics are to invade and occupy an enemy base area in the hopes that each player on the team can destroy the base, thereby earning a large amount of points. Because in these games the points earned by deactivating other players pales in comparison to the points earned by destroying bases, deactivating players is often merely used as a means whereby a player can stop an enemy from destroying a base and earning points, or a means whereby a player can secure a period of time in which they can destroy the base.\n\nSome games are played with \"reloads\" enabled, which means that the number of shots a player can fire, or the number of times a player can be deactivated, is limited by a \"power level\" the player has. Each player has a certain amount of power for their pack, which is used up slowly by shooting and used up more quickly by being deactivated. Once that power is used up, in order to resume play the player must go to a reload bay, which are walk-in areas around the arena which will resupply the player with power. The actual device that reloads the packs is a green, flashing device on the wall or roof of the reload bay. Shots and deactivations use up the same supply of energy, so if a player is continually deactivated, they will not only have a lower number of deactivations left until they must reload, they will also have a lower number of shots to use. After a player reloads there is a short delay before they are reactivated.\n\nGames that use reloads are different from games that do not because of the way players are forced to act. A common tactic in games involving bases, is to sit in a base area and \"camp\" there for a long time, defending it or waiting to attack it. In games that use reloads, players are forced to vacate areas from time to time, so that attackers can buy time in which they can safely attack the base, by shooting the defenders until they must reload. Likewise, defenders can shoot attackers until they have to reload, and then take up the freedom to position players in areas best suited to attacking the base, so that the attackers cannot easily attack the base.\n\nThe first Nexus system was Nexus Generation FEC (Family entertainment centre). The system brought an entirely new different laser tag experience being one of the first laser tag systems to use true colour LEDs and sets a new standard for future laser systems. Like its predecessors it has the ability to change settings through the software to whatever game the players may desire. Nexus FEC is primarily aimed at parties and other groups. It has the option of membership for regular players, however in some cases this was never put to use by some laser tag centres.\n\nAn upgrade from Nexus FEC with some new hardware and pack alterations as well as software and firmware alterations. The standard LCDs, similar to those in the Infusion packs were scrapped from Nexus FEC and replaced with a brand new coloured LCD display. Many other features have altered including the shoulders sensors with built in speakers. As for looks there is not really much difference between both version, with the exception of the shoulders which had speakers placed within them and the Nexus logo removed from inside.\n\nUnlike its predecessors, Nexus has a totally new design in both the phasor and pack. The older model, black plastic phasor cases were scrapped and replaced with a new transparent case complete with members button reader on the side of the phasor (Infusion has it located on the front of the vest). Nexus is also one of the first laser tag systems to use green lasers rather than the standard red lasers used in most laser tag systems. New LCD screens in Nexus Pro replaced standard LCD's used in Infusion and Nexus FEC.\n\nAnother significant change from the earlier infusion system. The old dome shaped bases featuring surrounding LEDs were completely redesigned for a slimmer more flat square shaped base with the speaker located in the middle. True colour LEDs flash simultaneously around the base when not under attack. As with the packs, the main computer uses the software to change the settings of the bases. Like the nexus gun plastics the bases are transparent, enabling players to see exactly what colour the base is.\n\nIn 2014 Zone launched a new laser tag system called Helios. It features the same vest as Nexus Pro but with a completely redesigned phaser. The phaser has a 3-inch led screen on the rear of the phaser capable of displaying game information and showing pictures of who shot you when you die.\nThe system also features a new membership system using qr code cards to log in by touching the right front sensor with it. The players score are automatically loaded into an online database ad can be used in any zone site worldwide.\nThe 2015 Australasian titles were the first to use the new system and meant that most teams had very little experience with the system\n\nThere are many different types of games at Darkzone stores. Standard games are typically played during regular store hours, and there are special novelty games which are played at special events or other times. Also there is a special kind of game for the Darkzone Leagues, which is similar to the standard game, but with variations to make it more challenging and competitive.\n\nStandard games are the games that are most often played in stores during the day. They come in two varieties, depending on preference and the amount paid: Solo games and Team-based games. Team-based games have the players divided into three teams. The players from each of the three teams must start the game in their teams base area. A major goal is to attack and destroy the enemy bases, of which there are two, and it is possible to destroy each of them twice. To destroy the bases, a player must shoot at the base three times in succession; a substantial pause in between, such as might be caused by a distraction, or deactivation of the player attacking the base, will require that the player start all over again. Also, if one player attacks the base, and then another player shoots it, the first player might have to start again. Around 2,000 points are earned for players who destroy a base, meaning that players can gain around 4,000 points by destroying all of the bases in the time allocated.\n\nIn a standard game it is possible to shoot and deactivate enemy players, but not team mates. Each player has an unlimited number of shots to fire and there is no limit on the number of times the player can be deactivated. Each time a player shoots another player they receive a number of points, depending on which sensor they shot at, and the player who was shot loses a smaller number of points. (Rules have recently been changed - no points lost for being shot). Solo games function by similar rules, with two noted exceptions: Players are able to tag all bases for points, and that the friendly fire condition in Team games has been disabled, allowing players to freely tag each other with no restrictions. Both forms of the standard game can be variated with a 'fast mode', in which deactivation times are halved and fire rates increased. In these modes, it is not uncommon for the base to be able to deactivate players when destroyed (resulting in a long deactivation period for the player).\n\nLeague games (or League X) are similar to standard games but differ from standard games in a number of ways. First of all there is a long list of technical rules, related to how players are allowed to move, hold their phasors, etc. to prevent cheating or dangerous movement. League games last for only 12 minutes and in that time each player is only allowed to destroy each enemy base once. League games are played with \"reloads\", so there is a limit on the number of shots or deactivations a player can have in a row, and it is possible to shoot and deactivate team mates, although not possible to shoot your team's base or yourself.\n\nShooting bases is different in league games also, for whenever a player shoots a base, they lose 500 points. The player shoots the base twice, losing 500 points each time, and then when the player shoots it a final time, gains 1000 points to regain the points lost from the first two shots, and 3001 points for destroying the base. If a player shoots the base once or twice without destroying it, and is deactivated, or distracted for long enough, then the player will have to start all over again, losing even more points the next time the player shoots the base; the player will only gain 4001 points for destroying the base, so failing to shoot the base too many times may result in a significant loss in points for the team. This means that players must be very careful to destroy the base on the first attempt. If a defending player deactivates an attacking player after they have shot the base once or twice and before the attacker has destroyed the base, the defending player earns 500 points for that deactivation, in addition to the fact that the attacker has just lost 500 or 1000 points.\n\nLeague games are overlooked by a number of referees who stand in the arena with the players, watching for violations of the rules. Referees hold what are commonly known as \"god boxes\", which are remotes with three buttons on them that can be used to punish players who break the rules, either by \"shielding\" them or \"terminating\" them. The shield is a warning punishment used for minor offences, and it has the effect that a player cannot shoot or be shot for a period of time, like being deactivated, except that the lights on the pack stay on, and the player does not lose power. Terminations deactivate a player for a period of time, and in addition they remove a large number of points from the player, and these are used for major offences. There are two types of terminations, level ones and level twos, the level two termination being the more severe of the two. If a player receives three level two terminations, then the player leaves the game and receives a zero score.\n\nLeague games are faster paced than standard games, because of their competitive nature and also because of the shorter time the game is played in. League games are also more challenging and difficult, because many experienced players can learn some very advanced techniques, for instance standing or sitting in certain, legal positions, that obscure their sensors effectively, the ability to bounce shots off reflective surfaces, and various other skills related to attacking bases or defending against other players.\n\nThere are variations between the implementations of the league game formats and the rules used for league games, from store to store, league to league, or season to season, as the organizers might make changes to improve the challenge and quality of the game.\n\nOne Base Denial is a team game where every team (usually three teams) goes for one base. The rules are the same as league games. Every player can destroy the base as many times as they can but this can be difficult as they are usually denied (deactivated) by another player while taking the base due to the large number of players.\n\nVampire is a novelty game played sometimes at Darkzone stores. The game does not involve bases, and is not actually team-based, instead it involves players known as peasants and vampires. The game begins with one vampire, who has unlimited shots and lives, and the rest of the players are peasants who have a limited number of shots and lives. The aim of the game is for the vampires to turn everyone else into vampires, and for the peasants to survive until the end of the time limit of the game. Often the vampire is given some sort of advantage, such as a shorter deactivation time and increased fire rate (Peasants can also be given a disadvantage of longer deactivations times and reduced fire rates. In some arenas, both of these rules are in effect simultaneously). Vampires can shoot one another and peasants can shoot one another.\n\nZone Ball is a novelty game played sometimes at Darkzone stores. The game involves bases, but instead of trying to \"destroy\" the bases, players use the bases as a sort of soccer goal. The game is team-based, and the aim of the game is for each team to score the highest number of goals in the game. In the beginning, players must stand in their team's base, and then the bases lights will turn on. The first player to shoot any base anywhere, is given the \"ball\", and an audible signal will be heard every few seconds to confirm that the player has the ball. There is only one ball at any one time in the game. The goal is then to make it into an enemy base and shoot their base to score a point. Players can pass the ball to team mates by shooting them, and players may steal the ball from enemy players by shooting the player with the ball. Players can shoot enemies who do not have the ball, in order to deactivate them for a period of time, so that they cannot steal the ball or cause any trouble. Once a player has scored a goal by shooting an enemy base while in possession of the ball, there is a short delay before the ball is up for grabs again, at which point players can grab the ball by being the first to shoot any base.\n\nTime Warrior is a novelty game played sometimes at Darkzone stores. The game does not involve bases and is not team-based. At the beginning of the game, each player is given a certain amount of \"time\". Time is constantly being used up, but the player can gain more time by shooting and deactivating enemy players. A player who is deactivated will have effectively lost the time they spent deactivated in, because in that time they are unable to shoot players to gain more time. A player who is constantly being deactivated, or who cannot shoot and deactivate any enemy players, will eventually run out of time and will leave the arena. The winner of the game is the player who is the last player in the game, or who has the most time left when the time limit for the game is over.\n\nThis is the classic game of Stratego that has become so popular. At the game start, each team will choose someone from their team to be their \"General\" and someone to be their \"Decoy\". When the game is running, the general and decoy packs will be orange with their team colour flashing for shoulders. This means that other players will not be able to distinguish between the general and the decoy during the game. This is an eliminator game. The objective is to eliminate the other teams' generals. If a general is eliminated, the entire team is automatically eliminated.\n\nThe winner at the end is decided by first looking at the General, if more than one team has the general still in, then the decoy is looked at. If more than one team still has the general and decoy in, then the number of deacs remaining on the general is looked at, then the decoy, then the number of remaining players. Ties should rarely happen.\n\nThis game originated from the Unreal Tournament game style. When the game begins, none of the bases will be active but will still be waiting for shots. The first player to tag a base turns it to their color (only 1 shot). No points are immediately awarded. After 5 seconds if the base is still the same, that player receives 50 points for themselves and their team. After 3 more seconds, they receive 100 more points. Then every 3 seconds after they receive 200 points. At any time during the game, an opponent can tag the base just once to turn it to their color and restart the timer for themselves.\n\nIf your team holds 2 bases at the same time then both base values are doubled. If your team holds all 3, then all 3 base values are quadrupled.\n\nBase flags is a simple game where you try to score as many points as you can for your team by destroying opponents bases. Each base only takes one shot to destroy. However, each player will need to return to their home base to reload every time they are deactivated. No points are awarded for tagging players.\n\nTerminator is a game style similar to Vampires, and is generally used with larger groups. Players are divided into teams of Humans and Terminators. A certain number of players are chosen to become Terminators, and are sent in after the remaining players enter the arena. These remaining players have some time to obtain a secure position before the game starts. The Terminators are sent in to eliminate the Humans, while the Humans are able to win either by surviving for the time period of the game or by destroying the Terminators. Human players are given limited lives and have slower firing rates and longer deactivation times, while Terminators have more lives, faster firing rates and shorter deactivation times (This balances out the numerical advantage given to the Humans).\n\nPerth, Western Australia has three stores, a store in Willetton called Darkzone, a store in Northbridge called Zone 3 and a store in Malaga called Darkzone. All stores have regular social leagues that people can play in for a greater challenge and a good time. All three stores are owned and run by Wombat, so the leagues are very similar and there is also an annual League played between the three stores, (formerly known as North vs. South), where regular players from each store compete against one another over three weekends. Finally there is an occasional doubles tournament consisting of many teams of two players, and a solos tournament that are played at both stores.\n\nThe format of the regular social League is a team-based competition where teams consist of 5 players and compete for \"league points\" for most of the league, to earn a position on the competition ladder that runs for about 11 weeks. The competition is a very rough round-robin style where each team plays three games each week and eventually plays all of the other teams. Points are awarded to teams depending on the results of the game, and the player with the highest individual score for a game also earns bonus points for their team. On the 10th week of the league an elimination tournament is held, where the players who are lowest on the competition ladder play first and continue playing until eliminated. The final three teams remaining in the elimination play three games together to decide the winner of the league.\n\nPlayers in the social leagues are graded according to skill and a percentage handicap calculated from the combined skills of the players, so that teams with less skill are still able to win some games. There are rules that players must abide by and there are referees standing in the arena watching the game, who are able to punish rule-breakers. Trophies are awarded to the winning team, highest individual average score, fairest and best and most improved.\n\nThe North vs. South competition was the competition played between the Northbridge and Willetton stores, so-called because both stores are on either side of the Swan River, which divides Perth. There is no handicap system, there are referees, and there are six players per team. Three rounds are held over a length of three weeks, played on Sundays, and the teams play at one venue for the first round, the other venue for the second round, and then both venues for the final round. A shield is awarded to the store with the winning team, and medals are awarded to the winning team, player with the highest average score, and for the best and fairest player, voted for by the referees.\n\nThe ACT has been running a successful league for about 13 years. The format changes every season (which last about 6 months) to keep more people around. Canberra is running the Nexus Pro system. There is a shield for the winning team which is mounted on the wall at Zone 3 in Canberra, as well as trophies given out to individual players on the top 3 teams, as well as best an fairest, most improved, and high score. Canberra also has a horses-arse award, given to the player who is involved in the most idiotic part of the season.\n\nLaserzone have sites in Lawnton and Sunshine Coast that run weekly leagues. Both sites run Infusion equipment and cater for all skill levels at the weekly league. Experienced players will take on new blood to help them get started, and a handicap system similar to the Western Australian system has been adopted to encourage new teams to enter. Each month a competition is run for intermediate and experienced player only. This is a chance for the experienced players to play as hard as they can, and for the intermediate players to get a tase of what competitive laser tag is all about. Competitions include a Brisbane v Sunshine Coast teams event (North v South), Doubles, Triples & Zone Ball tournaments.\n\nThe format of the regular social League is a team-based competition similar to the Western Australia system. The main differences is that individual high scorers do not earn a bonus point for their team in SEQ leagues and seasons vary from 8 – 12 weeks. SEQ sites also play with no denial scoring on which means players do not lose extra points for being deactivated whilst destroying a base station. At the end of the season medallions are awarded to the 3 finalists.\n\nThe Megazone Laser Tag centre in Mt Wellington is currently the only centre in New Zealand to run competitive leagues. Usually they are only friendly leagues with no prizes however once in a while they have a ten-week team-based league which is competitive with each team having the same people on it every week. Variations of league games such as doubles and triples (2/3 players on each team) are also sometimes played on these nights.\n\nThe Australian Zone Nationals has been held annually since 1999. The main event is the team competition, which currently attracts approximately 20 teams of between 5 and 6 players (plus alternates) from every Australian state and territory. Teams play about 24 games before semi-finals. All games have three teams playing. Typically all teams get a go in semifinals, but the system is stacked to favour teams who finished higher on the ladder at the end of the preliminary rounds. The scheme used is typically an Ascension or Skip Ascension. In 2007 the decision was made to switch final systems to System D. The top three teams go into a grand final, which is a three-game series in which each team plays on each colour once.\n\nThere are a number of minor tournaments held at the Nationals, including Solos, Doubles and Triples, which attract 90 to 100 players each. Solos typically has 20 players in each game, with no bases or reloads. Doubles typically has 10 teams of two in each game, with each player being able to shoot all three bases. Triples has approximately 7 teams of three in each game, with each player being able to shoot all bases, with the exact format being announced on the day of Triples starting. Other minor events include Masters (over 32s) and Women's.\n\nThe 2007 National competition held in Bendigo was a significant event as it witnessed the entry of a team from the United States. \"WMD\" as they called themselves came to Australia, learnt to use Infusion (The system which Nationals is run on), and competed in the Teams, Triples, Doubles, Solos, Women's and Masters comps. A group of 3 Americans took out the triples competition, and the team ended up coming 5th in the competition.\n\nThe inaugural New Zealand Invitational was held from Monday 18th to Thursday 21 February 2008. The team competition was 9 teams of 6 players plus substitutes. Main part of the team competition was 48 games; each team played 16 games. The competition was spread over three different sites: Ponsonby (System Q), North Shore (Infusion), and Mt. Wellington (Infusion). Games at Ponsonby were played with only 5 players per side, and with stuns. HoCo was made up from players from both Hobart and Sunshine Coast.\n\nThe 2010 New Zealand Invitationals where held in September 2010 (6th-10th) across the three Auckland Megazone sites (North Shore (Infusion), ponsonby (Nexus FEC) and Mt Wellington (Infusion)). The rules were the same as the Darwin 2010 Nationals and the World Championships.\n\nThe 2012 New Zealand Invitationals were held from August 27–31, 2012 across the three Auckland Megazone sites (Mt Wellington (Infusion), Ponsonby (Nexus PRO) and North Shore (Infusion)). The rules were to be similar to the 2012 Australian Nationals competition.\n\nFor the first time ever, the Australian National Titles were held in New Zealand in 2014 at Megazone Mt Wellington. It was also the first time a New Zealand team (Silverbacks) won the competition and the second time in a row that a NZ player had won the women's competition (Arcane). The competition was run using brand new Nexus Pro packs.\n\nThe 2009 Zone World Championships was held in Tampere, Finland over May/June 2009. Teams from Australia, USA, Finland and Sweden competed in a range of game types, including an international team format game, a team eliminator game, doubles without bases, solos and LOR.\n\nKey: USA = American Team or Player, FIN = Finnish Team or Player, SWE = Swedish Team or Player, AUS = Australian Team or Player\n\nThis was held in Syracuse, NY, America from 5/11/2011 - 11/11/2011\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57631780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57631780", "title": "Davao Occidental Tigers", "text": "Davao Occidental Tigers\n\nDavao Occidental Tigers also known as Davao Occidental Cocolife Tigers is a professional basketball team in the Maharlika Pilipinas Basketball League (MPBL).\n\n\"(A-F)\"\n\n\"(G-L)\"\n\n\"(M-R)\"\n\n\"(S-Z)\"\n"}
{"id": "26770979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26770979", "title": "Ecuador at the Pan American Games", "text": "Ecuador at the Pan American Games\n\nEcuador at the Pan American Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "25666440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25666440", "title": "FIGD Italian Golf Federation For Disabled", "text": "FIGD Italian Golf Federation For Disabled\n\nThe Italian Golf Federation for Disabled (FIGD) is an association whose aim is to promote golf among disabled players in Italy. It was established in 1998. FIGD is member of the Federazione Italiana Golf (Italian Golf Federation), of the Comitato Italiano Paralimpico (Italian Paralympic Committee) and the European Disabled Golf Association (EDGA).\n"}
{"id": "21029131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21029131", "title": "Four-point play", "text": "Four-point play\n\nIn basketball, a four-point play is the rare occasion when an offensive player shoots and makes a three-point field goal while simultaneously being fouled by a defensive player, resulting in a shooting foul and one free throw attempt, or a two-point field goal and is intentionally or flagrantly fouled on the shot and is awarded two free throws. If the player makes his/her free throws, they will have scored four points on a single possession. The short-lived American Basketball League first introduced the four-point play to the game of basketball, and it was later adopted by the American Basketball Association during its inaugural season. The National Basketball Association (NBA) introduced that rule in 1979; FIBA in 1984; the NCAA in 1986 (men only) and 1987 (women); middle and high schools in 1987; and the WNBA in 1997.\n\nSam Smith of the Chicago Bulls completed the first four-point play in NBA history on October 21, 1979, in a game against the Milwaukee Bucks. Dale Ellis was the first player in NBA history to complete two four-point plays in the same game when he did so in a win against the Sacramento Kings on January 26, 1988. On April 29, 2009, James Jones completed two four-point plays in a span of eleven seconds. , Jamal Crawford is the league's career leader in regular-season four-point plays with 54, and 59 when including postseason play.\n\n"}
{"id": "6760257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6760257", "title": "Godthåbhallen", "text": "Godthåbhallen\n\nGodthåbhallen is a handball stadium in Nuuk, Greenland. It is the home of the Greenland national handball team. The stadium has a capacity of 1,000 people.\n\nThe stadium was built in 1961, and is a multi-purpose venue, housing events ranging from concerts to bingo to zumba and bodytoning. The stadium used to be the venue of choice for bigger artists, but since the 2002 completion of Nuuk Stadium, home of the Nuuk football team, all major artists use this newer, spacier venue. Godthåbhallen is located 400 meters from Nuuk Stadium. An ice skating arena which is open to the public is right outside the hall.\n"}
{"id": "41260999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41260999", "title": "Guadeloupe national rugby union team", "text": "Guadeloupe national rugby union team\n\nThe Guadeloupe national rugby union team represents Guadeloupe in the sport of rugby union. Guadeloupe has been playing international rugby since the 1970s.\n\nThey have played mainly against Caribbean sides, i.e. Trinidad & Tobago, Bermuda, Guyana, and Barbados.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57474165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57474165", "title": "Habib Youssouf", "text": "Habib Youssouf\n\nHabib Youssouf (born 19 February 1998) is a Comorian footballer who currently plays as a defender for Volcan Club de Moroni.\n"}
{"id": "33832745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33832745", "title": "Iksan National Baseball Training Stadium", "text": "Iksan National Baseball Training Stadium\n\nIksan National Baseball Training Stadium is a baseball stadium in Iksan, South Korea.\n"}
{"id": "463032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463032", "title": "Innings", "text": "Innings\n\nAn innings is one of the divisions of a cricket match during which one team takes its turn to bat. Innings also means the period in which an individual player bats. Innings, in cricket, and rounders, is both singular and plural, which contrasts with baseball and softball in which the singular is \"inning\".\n\nThe earliest known record of the term concerns a match on Wednesday, 5 August 1730 at Blackheath, Kent between Kent and London. The London-based newspaper \"St. James Evening Post\" reported on Saturday, 8 August: \"'Twas thought that the Kentish champions would have lost their honours by being beat at one innings if time had permitted\". This is the first time that the word \"innings\" is found in contemporary records. Incidentally, it is also the first time that the word \"champions\" is found in a team sense, which is significant because it confirms that the idea of a champion county was already well established among cricket's followers. Furthermore, the match was apparently drawn and is the earliest known instance of this result.\n\nAn innings is one of the divisions of a match during which one team takes its turn to bat. Innings is the subject of Law 13 in the \"Laws of Cricket\".\n\nIn a first-class match, there are up to four innings with each team due to bat twice (in practice, this is not always the case). In a limited overs match, there are only two innings with each team batting once. The term is also used with the meaning of \"score\" for both the team and each individual batsman. For example, it may be said that \"he played an innings of 101\", meaning that the player scored 101 in his innings. Similarly, it may be said that the team had a first innings (score) of 501.\n\nThe term can generally be taken as a reference to the time during which someone possesses something and, colloquially, the phrase \"a good innings\" means a long life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23967646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23967646", "title": "Japan women's national baseball team", "text": "Japan women's national baseball team\n\nThe Japan women's national baseball team is controlled by the Baseball Federation of Japan. It represents the nation in women's international competition. The team is a member of the Baseball Federation of Asia. They won the 2008 Women's Baseball World Cup, and are currently #1 in the IBAF World Rankings.\n\n"}
{"id": "4714929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4714929", "title": "Jim Norick Arena", "text": "Jim Norick Arena\n\nJim Norick Arena (formerly Fairgrounds Arena) is a large multi-purpose arena located at State Fair Park in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. It seats approximately 8,500 in its usual configuration.\n\nThe building was unique in that it had the largest roof of its type in the world. It is the third largest city-owned multi-purpose arena, after Chesapeake Energy Arena and the arena at Cox Convention Center.\n\nIt was home to the Oklahoma City Blazers of the CHL from 1965-1972.\n\nThe Grateful Dead's performance on October 19, 1973, was recorded and later released as \"Dick's Picks Volume 19\".\n\nToday, it is used primarily to host small school state basketball tournaments, events such as rodeos, horse-shows and other equine events, as well as a backup facility for concerts and sporting events. Most recently, it hosted Sam Smith's In The Lonely Hour Tour in 2015; it was his first Oklahoma concert.\n"}
{"id": "26827176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26827176", "title": "Kagawa Five Arrows", "text": "Kagawa Five Arrows\n\nThe Kagawa Five Arrows (香川ファイブアローズ） are a Japanese basketball team, playing in the Western Conference of the B.League. They are based in Takamatsu, Kagawa Prefecture. In July 2015 it was announced that the team will compete in the second division of the new Japan Professional Basketball League, which will commence from October 2016.\n\n\n\n\n\nKey:\n\n"}
{"id": "5655593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5655593", "title": "List of football clubs in Libya", "text": "List of football clubs in Libya\n\nThis is a list of football clubs in Libya.\n\"For a complete list see \"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7737040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7737040", "title": "Marathon Rowing Championship", "text": "Marathon Rowing Championship\n\nThe Marathon Rowing Championship is a continuous rowing regatta on the Cane River Lake in Natchitoches, Louisiana. Northwestern State University is the official host of the regatta. The Marathon begins near the Melrose Plantation and ends at Front Street in Natchitoches. The regatta is open to all sculling and sweep-oar rowing boats. On the day of the Marathon, the Cane River is open only to competitors.\n\nThe regatta is much longer than most head races, but shorter than the Boston Rowing Marathon. Normally, the races with the longest distance that competitive crews enter are called head races (for example the Head of the Charles) and are usually around long. The majority of crews do not even practice on bodies of water that allow them to row without stopping and turning around (usually due to lake size or the presence of a river dam or lock).\n\nThe Marathon Rowing Championship did not take place in 2010 or 2011 due to low water during an extreme regional drought.\n\nThe record time for this event is 2 hours, 31 minutes, 20 seconds set in 2008. A more typical time it takes to complete the course is 3 to 4 hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "3589182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3589182", "title": "Memorial Gymnasium (Grambling State)", "text": "Memorial Gymnasium (Grambling State)\n\nMemorial Gym is a 2,200-seat multi-purpose arena in Grambling, Louisiana. It is home to the Grambling State University Tigers volleyball team. It was the former home of the men's and women's basketball teams.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1912309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912309", "title": "Modern Woodmen Park", "text": "Modern Woodmen Park\n\nModern Woodmen Park (known previously as John O'Donnell Stadium and Municipal Stadium), is a minor league baseball venue located in Davenport, Iowa, United States. It is home to the Quad Cities River Bandits, a Class-A affiliate of the Houston Astros. Located on the banks of the Mississippi River, in the shadow of the Centennial Bridge, home run balls to right field often land in the river.\n\nAs night games became more necessary, Davenport teams were playing at the Mississippi Valley Fairgrounds, without lights. The city of Davenport realized a lighted stadium, downtown, on the riverfront, would be ideal. Proposed by the Davenport Levee Commission, Municipal Stadium opened May 26, 1931 within LeClaire Park. The ballpark was built at a cost of $185,000. The first night game was June 4, 1931.\n\nExpansions in the 1940s and in 1962 brought capacity up to 6,200 and 8,500 respectively. It is one of the oldest ballparks still in use in all of the minor leagues, although it underwent a major renovation before the 1989 season, lowering the seating capacity to 5,200 and before the 2004 season that brought the ballpark up to modern professional baseball standards and a seating capacity of 4,024.\n\non May 27, 1971 the stadium was renamed John O'Donnell Stadium in honor of the longtime sports editor of the Davenport \"Times-Democrat\", shortly following his death. John O'Donnell Stadium was renamed Modern Woodmen Park on December 12, 2007, after Rock Island-based Modern Woodmen of America purchased the naming rights to the facility. O'Donnell's name remains on the ballpark's press box.\n\nFor many years, Modern Woodmen Park played host to football games in the fall. Both Assumption High School (a private Catholic high school in Davenport) and Saint Ambrose College called the field home until 1987, when both schools began playing at Brady Street Stadium. The football bleachers and press box along left field were removed in 1989.\n\nRenovations done before the 2004 season included a nine-foot-high berm that provided a lawn seating area for fans. The berm also acted as a flood wall around the entire stadium. Until that point, the facility had no flood protection from Mississippi River flooding, which caused the team to play home games at other parks during river floods. During the Great Flood of 1993, photos of water creeping across the playing field at the ballpark made national publications and became somewhat of a symbol of the flood.\n\nAfter the 2007 season, new owners Dave Heller and Bob Herrfeldt of Main Street Baseball came in and reinvigorated both the ballpark and the franchise. They sold naming rights to Modern Woodmen in a record 20-year deal, changed the name of the franchise back to \"River Bandits,\" and made numerous improvements to the ballpark. In 2008, the club added a hot tub deck in right field, as well as a \"tiki village,\" featuring three tiki bars, a covered tiki lounge, and a king-sized tiki bed beyond the right field wall. They also excavated a gravel area along the left-field foul line and planted field corn; by mid-season the corn grows high enough so that the home-team players are introduced at the beginning of the game and come running out of the corn field, just like in the movie \"Field of Dreams\".\nFor 2009, Main Street Baseball continued to make improvements, adding a new , high-definition ribbon board along the right field fence and installing four new concourse-level \"loge boxes\" to accommodate small groups of people. Prior to the 2010 season, the City of Davenport and Main Street Baseball replaced the entire field, to facilitate proper drainage and minimize rain outs. Other new changes for 2010 included a new concession stand on the Picnic Plaza level and a new group terrace next to the Tiki Village beyond the right-center field fence.\n\nIn 2014, the facility received another noteworthy addition, as a 110-foot Ferris wheel was constructed just beyond the left field wall. In 2017, the park added a double-decker carousel purchased from Pier 39 in San Francisco.\n\nFor both the 2008 and 2009 seasons, Modern Woodmen Park won the \"Best Ballpark Improvement\" Award from Ballparkdigest.com, the industry's leading publication.\n\nIn 2013, the park was voted as the top minor-league ballpark in the United States in a USA Today and 10best.com reader poll. Modern Woodmen Park beat second place Louisville Slugger Field by around 2,000 votes.\n\nThe River Bandits (then known as the Swing of the Quad Cities) defeated the Burlington Bees, 1–0, in the first game at the renovated Modern Woodmen Park on April 29, 2004.\n\nThe 2006 and 2011 Midwest League All-Star Games were held at Modern Woodmen Park. Previously, the ballpark hosted Midwest League All-Star Games in 1964, 1968, 1975, 1980, 1982 and 1990, giving the facility a total of eight.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, portions of the critically acclaimed film \"Sugar\" was shot at the park. This included 800–1,000 people a night showing up to be extras. The movie follows the path of a young man from the impoverished Dominican Republic as he chases dreams of baseball stardom in America.\n\nThe stadium was the site of the \"Rumble on the Riverbank\" boxing match on May 10, 1991. Michael Nunn, a Davenport native, lost the IBF middleweight title to James Toney.\n\n\"Mississippi River Jam II\" was held on June 3, 1979 featuring AC/DC, Heart, UFO TKO and Nazareth.\n\nThe facility has hosted many concerts by many artists, including: Johnny Cash, The Beach Boys, Johnny Winter, Bryan Adams, Def Leppard, REO Speedwagon, Blue Öyster Cult, Eddie Money, Edgar Winter Group and Lonestar. Johnny Cash played at the stadium twice, in 1974 and 1976, drawing over 10,000 each time and playing for free.\n\nOn Oct. 1, 1936 an exhibition game featuring major-league players and Negro National League All Stars included Baseball Hall of Fame players Satchel Paige, Cool Papa Bell, Rogers Hornsby and Johnny Mize\n\nThe stadium and teams were the subject of a book. Baseball Historian Tim Rask wrote \"Baseball at Davenport's John O'Donnell Stadium\", released in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886921", "title": "Norfolk Scope", "text": "Norfolk Scope\n\nNorfolk Scope is a multi-function complex in Norfolk, Virginia, comprising an 11,000-person arena, a 2,500-person theater known as Chrysler Hall, a 10,000 square foot-exhibition hall and a 600-car parking garage.\n\nThe arena was designed by Italian architect/engineer Pier Luigi Nervi in conjunction with the (now defunct) local firm Williams and Tazewell, which designed the entire complex. Nervi's design for the arena's reinforced concrete dome derived from the PalaLottomatica and the much smaller Palazzetto dello Sport, which were built in the 1950s for the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome.\n\nConstruction on Scope began in June 1968 at the northern perimeter of Norfolk's downtown and was completed in 1971 at a cost of $35 million. Federal funds covered $23 million of the cost, and when it opened formally on November 12, 1971, the structure was the second-largest public complex in Virginia, behind only the Pentagon.\n\nFeaturing the world's largest reinforced thinshell concrete dome\n(though eclipsed by the Seattle Seattle Kingdome from 1972 to 2000), Scope won the Virginia Society of the American Institute of Architects \"Test of Time\" award in 2003. Wes Lewis, director of Old Dominion University's civil engineering technology program, called it \"a beautiful marrying of art and engineering.\" Noted architectural critic James Howard Kunstler described the design as looking like \"yesterday's tomorrow.\"\n\nThe name \"Scope\", a contraction of \"kaleidoscope\", emphasizes the venue's re-configurability. The facility logo (right), which features a multi-colored, abstracted kaleidoscope image, was designed by Raymond Loewy's firm \"Loewy/Snaith\" of New York.\n\nAfter watching the 1960 Rome Summer Olympics on television, and seeing the Palazzo and Palazzetto dello Sport, Brad Tazewell and Jim Williams, two Norfolk architects, solicited U.S. Sen. A. Willis Robertson, father of Pat Robertson, to build a sports complex in Norfolk. Subsequently, President Lyndon B. Johnson asked Robertson to support federal funding for a multimillion-dollar cultural center in Colorado and Robertson said he would if Johnson would support one in Norfolk. Williams and Tazewell was subsequently commissioned; they in turn commissioned Nervi.\n\nThe complex was an important part of the first phase of Norfolk's post-World War II revitalization. A large section of the city's downtown was razed, and the Scope complex was to \"anchor\" its northern corner, with the Vincent Kling designed Courthouse and Civic complex anchoring the Eastern edge of downtown.\n\nThe arena is located on its 14-acre site above a raised plinth, below which is located a parking garage for 640 cars. The facility includes a exhibit hall as well as the adjacent Chrysler Hall, a music and theater venue, home to the Virginia Symphony Orchestra. The arena's seating can be reconfigured to accommodate from 10,253 for sporting events up to 13,800 for concerts.\n\nWith a concrete monolithic dome measuring 440 ft (134 m) in diameter and a height of 110 ft (33.5 m), the dome was, at the time of its construction, the largest of its kind in the world — and was displaced as the record holder after the construction of the Seattle Kingdome. After the demolition of the larger Kingdome in 2000, Scope reclaimed the title as having the world's largest reinforced thin-shell concrete dome. Supported by 24 flying buttresses, the arena roof encloses . With over 1,000 pilings, the facility was constructed 10' below the city's water table. The roof is a ribbed concrete dome, independent of seating bowl formed of sloped concrete beams supporting precast treads and risers which form the seating bowl. The perimeter of the dome roof is supported by a combination of vertical columns and inclined buttresses, which tie into a tension ring below ground. A concentric ring, approximately 7' 9\" wide, is suspended from the dome, for service and lighting needs.\n\nDuring preparations for the first hosting of the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, a bear escaped its cage and ran across the wet paint on the floor of the unfinished Exhibition Hall below. During the first presentation in the Exhibition Hall of the Hampton Roads Automobile Show, visitors could spot bear tracks in the painted floor, between the exhibitions. (Source: \"The Virginian-Pilot\")\n\nThe arena has undergone $11 million of renovations since 2003, including the replacement of a center-hung scoreboard with a matrix screen on each side with a center-hung scoreboard with LED video and matrix boards and two LED end-zone videoboards in 2008. A new glass wall has been installed, and is expected to be extended in order to expand the arena's main concourse at a cost of $3.5 million in 2014. This would result in additional restrooms and concession stands at the arena.\n\nThere has been discussion about expanding the Norfolk Scope, by adding 5,000 seats and 24 luxury suites, in the near future, in order to remain competitive with neighboring venues in the southeastern and mid-Atlantic states.\n\n"}
{"id": "6618464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6618464", "title": "North American Grappling Association", "text": "North American Grappling Association\n\nThe North American Grappling Association (NAGA) is an organization started in 1995 that holds Submission Grappling and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu tournaments throughout North America and Europe. NAGA is the largest submission grappling association in the world with over 200,000 participants world-wide, including some of the top submission grapplers and MMA fighters in the world. NAGA grappling tournaments consist of gi and no-gi divisions. No-Gi competitors compete under rules drafted by NAGA. Gi competitors compete under standardized Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu rules. NAGA also promotes MMA events which they term Reality Fighting.\n\nCompetitors in NAGA competitions are broken into weight divisions and skill levels. Skill levels are further divided into a two categories, Adults/Masters/Directors/Executives, and Children/Teens.\n\n\n\nTotal grappling experience includes but is not limited to; wrestling experience, BJJ experience, judo experience, sambo experience, JKD experience, etc. Any training that consists of grappling is counted towards your total experience.\n\n\nNAGA's MMA division, Reality Fighting, holds mixed martial arts events in New Jersey and Massachusetts. The rules that govern each match are set by each state's athletic commission.\n\nReality Fighting previous champions include BJJ Black Belt and UFC veteran Gabriel Gonzaga, and current Reality Fighting Light-Heavyweight Champion and The Ultimate Fighter television show veteran Mike Stewart. Notable fighters who fought in Reality Fighting: Frankie Edgar, Joe Lauzon, Kenny Florian, Tim Sylvia, Jorge Rivera, Kurt Pellegrino, Jim Miller, Dan Miller, Rob Font, Joe Proctor, Matt Bessette, Josh Diekman, Josh Grispi. Notable grappling champions Anthony Porcelli, Joe Forentino and Angelo Riveria Sr.\n\n"}
{"id": "1325506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1325506", "title": "Over-the-line", "text": "Over-the-line\n\nOver-the-line is a bat-and-ball sport, a game related to baseball and softball. Like those games, you have the bar, pitcher, and fielders. Because a game requires only three people per team, it is considerably easier to get a good informal game going. Equipment consists of a rope (or lines marked in the sand), an \"official\" softball bat and a rubber softball. No ball gloves are allowed except in women's games, however golf gloves may be used when batting.Game play, however, is very different.\nThe name \"over-the-line\" is a registered trademark of the Old Mission Beach Athletic Club (OMBAC) of San Diego, California, which organizes an annual tournament that is one of the city's largest summer social events. It is also known as OTL (also trademarked by OMBAC). OMBAC allows other organizations to license the trademark for their own events for a nominal fee.\nAn over-the-line court is normally made up on a beach and comprises a triangle and an open ended rectangle marked by ropes or lines in the sand. The base (\"The Line\") of the triangle is long, and the distance from the line to the opposite point (\"Home\") is also . The rectangle is composed of two parallel ropes or lines that extend out indefinitely away from home starting from the two ends of The Line and at a right angle to The Line. The area between the parallel ropes and over The Line is fair territory. Everything other than the triangle and fair territory is foul territory.\n\nUnlike in softball, the batter and pitcher are on the same team. The batter stands at Home. The pitcher stands anywhere in front of The Line, not in the triangle. Fielders (the other team) stand behind The Line, in fair territory. The objective for the batter is get a hit which is to hit the ball into fair territory without a fielder catching it. A hit may also be made when the fielder who catches the ball crosses over the line (or the line's extension) or drops the ball in either fair or foul territory. No bases are physically run, however.\n\nAn out is made if (a) the ball is hit into your triangle, (b) a batter gets a strike (swings and completely misses), (c) the defenders catch the ball without crossing over The Line or its extensions, (d) a batter has two fouls (a foul is a ball that lands in foul territory, a pitch taken at or a balk), (e) a player bats out of order or (f) either the pitcher or batter touch but do not catch a struck ball (if the pitcher or batter catch it there is a no pitch). Unlike baseball and softball, where the foul lines are in fair territory, the ropes are in foul territory. Three outs end the half-inning, as in regular baseball and softball.\n\nThe scoring system is as follows:\n\nOver-the-line was first played in Mission Beach, San Diego, California in the 1950s and continues to thrive in the area. It is seen largely as a novelty game in the inland counties (and, debatably, the beach counties as well), but still persists as a physical education activity at local high schools, and most visibly in the practice of an annual tournament held on Fiesta Island. By far the locale's most notorious activity, the annual \"OMBAC World Championship Over The Line Tournament\", organized by Old Mission Beach Athletic Club, is a prominent event in San Diego's beach sports life. The tournament has a history of adult themed team names, often with variations of the sport's equipment — namely bats and balls — that are seen as explicit enough to discourage most youth attendance. Over the years, the tournament gained a reputation for its hedonistic and sexual overtones. To help emphasize the sport rather than the spectacle, OMBAC has made strides to cut back on these and some of the tournament's other, more offensive, elements. The tournament is much more than \"beer, babes, and bats on the beach.\"\n\nThe annual World Championships now gathers more than 1200 teams from all over the world. They compete in many different divisions. The divisions are separated by age and gender. Players from 18 to 80 years of age are participating. There are men's and women's teams and the sport is taken very seriously by the players. In 1977 players got gray hairs because of the stress There is even an OTL Players Association that was established to help further the sport and hosts several additional tournaments per year.\n\nThe tournament has gained a negative stigma by many who have never attended. As the population that began the event continues to age (the tournament began in 1954), the game garners increasing acceptance from the San Diego populace and governing bodies. Because of the sport and the party atmosphere this event fosters, OMBAC once again welcomed about 60,000 spectators over the two July weekends it was held in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "34147739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34147739", "title": "Public School Wanderers", "text": "Public School Wanderers\n\nThe Public School Wanderers Club is a sports club in the United Kingdom that was formed in 1940 by Charles Burton, a Fleet Street journalist. It was formed to provide cricket and rugby for public schoolboys during their school holidays, but with difficulties arising from World War II the Club started to provide games for servicemen as well. During the period of hostilities the Club provided over a thousand games of cricket and rugby for servicemen from all parts of the British Commonwealth.\n\nAfter the war the Club became open, though still by invitation only; a player is invited to become a Wanderer because they are a credit to their sport (be it cricket or rugby) and will enter into the spirit of maintaining the high standards of play and conduct achieved by generations of preceding club members.\n\nThe club colours are red (representing the morning sky), green (for the playing field) and pink (of the setting sun).\n\nThe club crest contains five charges, a book (representing scholarship and the schools from which the original players were drawn), the lion of Cambridge University RFC, the crown of Oxford University RFC, the Rod of Asclepius representing the United Hospitals RFC and an escallop which has connotations of pilgrimage in heraldry. There is also a Bishop's Mitre for the church affiliated public schools.\n\nThe club motto is \"In concordia floreamus\" which is Latin for \"In friendship we flourish\".\n\nThe rugby team play regional fixtures, celebration games, provide teams to play in developing rugby countries and engage in other rugby missionary activities. They play the 15-a-side version of the game though it is in 7-a-side rugby tournaments that the Wanderers have made their reputation. Since its inception over 2000 players have represented the Wanderers in over 5,000 matches.\n\nThe Wanderers have played \"international\" fixtures against Belgium, Germany, The Netherlands, Italy, Kenya and New Zealand, they have also toured Bermuda, Canada, East Africa, South Africa, Uruguay, United States and most European countries. They even took over the British Lions' cancelled fixtures in Zimbabwe in 1982. They have been finalists on two occasions at the Middlesex Sevens, represented England at the Monte Carlo Sevens in 1987, 1988 and winning in 1989. They were finalists at the 1988 Hong Kong Sevens and won the London Sevens as well as the 1996 Safari Sevens in Nairobi, Kenya.\n\nA notable event in the history of the Wanderers occurred in the 1988 – 89 season when it fielded a team comprising 15 internationals against a Bath XV consisting of a full complement of Internationals also. Bath was the first non-invitation club to have been able to field a fully international side since Newport RFC did so in 1902.\n\nThe modern era has required the Wanderers to refocus their fixture list to reflect the realities of the modern professional rugby, taking into account the contractual obligations that players now have with their clubs. Clubs still benefit from the more relaxed games that the Wanderers offer and to use them to test players returning from injury or to give younger players the opportunity to demonstrate their talents.\n\nNomadic by tradition, the club continues to play representative matches and to tour developing rugby countries, true to their roots – a combination of youth and experience. Though the club has evolved to match the developments in the sport, they still measure their success not by victories but by its established tradition of playing entertaining rugby. Any club wishing to invite the Wanderers to participate in a commemorative game or tournament either at home or abroad should contact the club via its website.\n\n\nStreatham sevens 1969 - Winners\n"}
{"id": "47039063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47039063", "title": "Safia Abukar Hussein", "text": "Safia Abukar Hussein\n\nSafia Abukar Hussein (born 1 January 1981) is a sprinter who competed internationally for Somalia.\n\nHussein was the first Somali female to compete at the Olympics for her country when she competed in the 400 metres at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, she finished her heat in 6th place so not advancing to the next round.\n"}
{"id": "41302507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41302507", "title": "Sandawana FC", "text": "Sandawana FC\n\nSandawana Football Club is a Lesotho football club based in Mpharane.\nIt is based in the city of Makheka, Thaba-Tseka District in the region Thaba-Tseka District.\n\nThe team currently plays in Lesotho Second Division.\n\nIn 2014 the club was renamed from Mpharane Celtics to Sandawana.\n\nCurrently the team plays at the 1,000 capacity St. Michaels Stadium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36603152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36603152", "title": "Savannakhet Stadium", "text": "Savannakhet Stadium\n\nThe Savannakhet stadium, also known as Savannakhet Provincial stadium, is a multi-purpose stadium in Savannakhet, Laos. It is used mostly for football matches. The stadium is built in 2005 and holds 15,000 people. Since 2006, some matches of the Lao League have been played there. The stadium is also the home of Savannakhet FC, who will play in the Lao League in one of the following seasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "56389250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56389250", "title": "Social media coverage of the Olympics", "text": "Social media coverage of the Olympics\n\nThis article considers social media coverage of the Olympics, and how it has evolved over the past decades.\nThe Olympics is able to advertise to its viewers and its host country with the use of data it collects through Social media marketing. Prominent social media platforms include: Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Tumblr, YouTube, Google, MSN, Yahoo and many more. Campaign Initiatives and Artificial Intelligence technologies have been used to analyze the social media content of users. Information from consumers such as their preferences, demographics, age and locality are all analyzed to gain consumer insight. Campaign initiatives and AI technologies were used for such purposes in the 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympics and are in use currently. Social media marketing of the Olympics is a new phenomena, beginning prior to the 2008 Beijing Olympics \n\nThere are two classifications of social media marketing recognized by the IOC: \n\n\nSocial media marketing emerged as a phenomenon during the 2008 Beijing Olympics, which progressed as a marketing and an advertising tactic ever since. The Beijing Olympics became the test subject for social media marketing initiatives started by advertising agencies. In 2008, social media marketing began the transition from one-sided communication to mass communication of the Olympic Games. Although social media marketing of the Olympic Games began in 2008, the audience to the Olympics was still primarily reached through television–reaching an audience of 4.3 billion viewers. At the time, the viewers of the Olympic Games through Internet website platforms made up an audience of approximately 390 million individuals.\n\nWhat was the beginning of Olympic social media marketing, was also the beginning of a more globalized experience of the Olympic Games via social media. Twitter, now a prominent social media platform, began in 2006 and grew to three million active users by the beginning of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Members of Facebook, another prominent social media platform, tracking the Olympic Games grew from approximately one million during the Olympic Games of Athens 2004 to 90 million during the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Social media use, in general, increased by 24 percent between 2007 and 2008–from 63 percent of U.S. adults to 87 percent of U.S. adults.\n\nThe International Olympic Committee (IOC) deemed The Vancouver Winter Olympics as \"the first social media games” based on its fan base through social media platforms. The IOC launched their Facebook page a month before the games began, attracting 1.5 million fans. Shifting to online viewing attracted a younger audience than past Olympic games with over 60 percent of Facebook fans being under 24 years of age.\n\nAthletes like Lindsey Vonn and Shaun White reached fans on social media as the platform posted behind-the-scenes coverage on their experiences. The IOC used social media to create competitions between athletes and fans streamed online. Its YouTube channel hosted a “Best of Us” challenge in which the public could compete in games with their favorite athletes, acquiring three million viewers. Photos spread across social media platforms, such as Flickr, which had 11,000 photos posted by 600 photographers, bringing a new perspective to the games.\n\nTwitter contributed constant live updates of the competitions. The IOC’s twitter following doubled to 12,000 followers during the Vancouver Olympics, creating a larger viewer population for the games. The IOC created social media guidelines as more athletes and fans got online to interact with the Olympics. Social media was still relatively new as a marketing platform, so these guidelines confused many individuals.\n\nThe London 2012 Olympic Games succeeded in broadcasting, participation and marketing. For the first time, the IOC broadcast the Olympic Games live and on-demand through Youtube, allowing fans to access the Games anytime, anywhere through live streaming. The combination of conventional broadcasting and mobile platforms reached a global audience of 4.8 billion people.\nSocial media soared with Facebook, Twitter and Google+, attracting 4.7 million followers. Athletes shared photographs, interacted online with fans and updated daily, either in person or via an agent. Instagram was established by 2012, making itself a premier photo-sharing platform perfect for athletes to capture their emotions. Lewis Wiltshire, head of sport for Twitter UK said, \"Never before have fans had such direct\naccess to their sporting heroes.\"\n\nSocial media created conversation on fan opinions regarding athletes, including 962,756 total mentions of Usain Bolt, “Fastest Man in History,” who defended the 100 meter and 200 meter gold medals. Michael Phelps followed with 828,081 total mentions.\n\nOlympic sponsors were active on social media; created several campaigns to promote their brands; and inspired viewers with mass participation and personalized events. The Adidas “Take the Stage” Campaign recognized talent around the world, installing a photo booth and inviting the 550 Olympics athletes to take the stage. (IOC Marketing Report 2012). David Beckham surprised fans at the photo booth in Westfield shopping centre, gaining popularity in UK media. Coca-Cola, Acer Inc., McDonald’s, Visa Inc. and several others used similar tactics of participation to attract viewers.\n\nThe 2014 Winter Olympic Games were held in Sochi, a city in Krasnodar Krai, Russia, establishing the first “social media Olympics” for Russia. The most popular Russian social media and networking service, VK, created an Olympic page, similar to Facebook’s. The Olympic VK page has 2.8 million fans and--the most popular official community on the platform. Throughout the games, VK had 54 million Olympic mentions, an average of 1.5 million per day.\nNumbers grew on other social media pages: more than 2 million fans joined the Olympic Facebook page, 168,101 followed the Olympic twitter, 150,000 followed the Olympic instagram and three million visited the Olympic website in February 2014. There were 90,000 total updates on social media by Sochi 2014 Olympians and teams. The United States was the most active country during the games logging 22,598 posts across Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.\n\nWith social media there is also hashtags. The most popular hashtag was #sochi2014 with almost 11,000 uses. The next top five hashtags were #wearewinter, #teamusa, #olympics, #goaus and #wirfuerD. Another popular hashtag was #Sochiproblems, depicting local struggles. Photos of the poor state of Sochi on all platforms made the games the number one trending topic one week before the opening ceremony. #SochiFail and #SochiProblems gave multiple reports of the poor living arrangements, incomplete construction, broken elevators, and polluted waters. This was one way that social media provided awareness to its users.\n\nMedia perceptions varied during the games; the Olympics was viewed as a confrontation between Eastern and Western Civilizations. The LGBT community took a stand against the games. Sponsors for the games including Coca-Cola, Mcdonald’s, and P&G protested against Russian authorities. Many protests took a stand against Russian laws, which created a discussion between human rights advocates. Advocates believed organizations should not promote certain values in western markets while supporting an anti-human rights government in another market.\n\nSocial media marketing was an influential tool in the promotion and analysis of the 2016 Rio Olympics. Thomas Bach, President of the International Olympic Committee said that the power of sport demonstrates that diversity and interconnectedness can enlighten us all. With over 25,000+ sources of accredited media covering the games, the 2016 games were the most consumed Olympic games to date. Marketing for the Rio Olympics began in 2013 and ultimately lasted 3 years. There were 26 million visits to Olympic.org, the official website of the Olympic games, and over 7 billion views of official Olympic content on social media. There were over 270 digital media platforms covering the games and active engagement throughout various social media platforms including facebook and twitter.\nTwitter saw over 187 million tweets inspired by the Rio Olympics, a 24.6 percent increase from the 2012 Summer Olympics. The 187 million tweets generated nearly 75 billion twitter impressions. It is important to note that throughout this same period, twitter nearly doubled in size in terms of users, suggesting that there could have been an even larger growth in twitter engagement. The hashtag, #Rio2016 was official content created by the IOC to generate buzz and encourage engagement.\nFacebook saw 277 million people interact 1.5 billion times regarding the 2016 games. Comparatively to the London games, which saw 116 million posts, there was a significant increase in interaction. Facebook also used the Rio Olympics to debut their Sponsored Photo Frame aspect as an alternative method of advertising revenue and marketing outreach. The idea behind this innovation was to present a new advertising opportunity for the platform and to encourage alternative interaction in a similar way to which Snapchat uses paid and sponsored geographic filters.\n\nThe Rio Olympics was the first Olympics to utilize snapchat as a marketing tool. NBC directly partnered with Snapchat and Buzzfeed to promote the 2016 games.\n"}
{"id": "21867036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21867036", "title": "Too Colourful for the League", "text": "Too Colourful for the League\n\nToo Colourful for the League is a 52-minutes 2001 Canadian documentary film made for CBC-TV, directed by Daniel Cross and Mila Aung-Thwin and produced by Diversus Productions. The film was produced by Evan Beloff, Ari Cohen and Max Wallace, who were nominated for a Gemini Award for best documentary. It was written by Max Wallace and co-produced by Daniel Cross.\n\nThis documentary examines the struggle of blacks in hockey in Canada from the 1930s to the present day telling the story of black players' courage and determination to play in a white-dominated sport. It focuses on an effort by former Montreal citizenship judge Richard Lord to nominate legendary black hockey player Herb Carnegie into the Hockey Hall of Fame. During the 1940s, Carnegie was widely acknowledged as one of the best hockey players in the world, playing alongside Jean Béliveau for the Quebec Aces. Yet he never was allowed to play in the NHL because of a long-time color barrier, which was only broken a decade later by Willie O'Ree of the Boston Bruins. In the film, veteran Hockey Hall of Fame referee Red Storey recalls watching Carnegie try out for Toronto Maple Leafs owner Conn Smythe. According to Storey, Smythe turned to him and said, \"I'd give $10,000 to turn that boy white.\"\n\nIt was broadcast by CBC, CTV, CBC Newsworld and Canal Plus.\n\n"}
{"id": "26460810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26460810", "title": "Turkish Fencing Federation", "text": "Turkish Fencing Federation\n\nThe Turkish Fencing Federation () is the governing body for the sport of fencing in Turkey. It was founded in 1923. In 1924, Turkish fencers began to attend the Olympic Games. Every year, fencing tournaments are held by TFF.\n\nThe Turkish Fencing Federation is affiliated to the international Federation Internationale d'Escrime and European Fencing Confederation.\n\nThe federation currently has 2500 fencers.\n\n"}
{"id": "8515412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8515412", "title": "War Memorial Athletic Ground", "text": "War Memorial Athletic Ground\n\nThe War Memorial Athletic Ground, often referred to as simply the War Memorial Ground, is a sports ground in the Amblecote region of Stourbridge, West Midlands, England. It plays host to both cricket and football, being the home of Stourbridge Cricket Club and Stourbridge Football Club.\n\nTwo ICC Trophy matches have been played at the War Memorial Ground: Bermuda v Papua New Guinea in 1979, and Argentina v East Africa in 1986. The ground also hosted a match in the 1997 Triple Crown Tournament, between an England Cricket Board XI\n\nand Ireland.\n\nWorcestershire County Cricket Club played 61 first-class matches at the ground: 60 between 1905 and 1962, and a further one in 1981. All these games were in the County Championship. Only three List A games have been played here, in 1969, 1970 and 1982, again all involving Worcestershire. The county played Second XI cricket at the ground into the early 1990s.\n\nOn this ground in 1911, Worcestershire lost to Lancashire by 372 runs, which as of the beginning of the 2009 season remains the county's largest ever defeat in terms of runs.\n\n\n\nThe War Memorial Athletic Ground is also the home of Stourbridge F.C. The ground hosted League One team Walsall in the FA Cup 1st round on 7 November 2009. The match finished in a 0-1 loss for Stourbridge. It also hosted a replay between Stourbridge and Plymouth Argyle in the FA Cup on 22 November 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "6627133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6627133", "title": "WhatIfSports.com", "text": "WhatIfSports.com\n\nWhatIfSports.com is a company based in Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S. that specializes in online sports simulations and fantasy-style games. It uses custom sports simulators to allow users to match teams from any era and generate a complete play-by-play of a game. Simulations can be run for free, or users can build custom teams consisting of players from any generation and join leagues with their friends for a fee. Results are based on each player's combined stats from previous seasons.\n\nThe site won the 2005 Webby award as the best sports website and claims more than 600,000 users as of 2009.\n\nFounded in 1999, WhatIfSports was a side project of a couple of sports fans working for a computer consulting company in Cincinnati, Ohio. After numerous lunchroom debates on which great historical baseball teams would win if they could play each other, a few guys decided to up the ante. At the height of the dot-com bubble, they decided to undertake the challenge of trying to write an advanced baseball simulator (along the lines of Strat-O-Matic and APBA) that would work on a website.\n\nAn early version of the baseball simulator was up and running by fall of 1999. The next project was college basketball. Just in time for March Madness in spring of 2000, the college basketball simulator went online. This caught the attention of the local media when the simulator said the University of Cincinnati would have made the Final Four if one of its players, power forward Kenyon Martin, had not broken his leg.\n\nWhile continuing with the consulting work to pay the bills, WhatIfSports remained a side project until the company landed its first major license with Major League Baseball in 2001. The license put the baseball simulator on MLB.com and put WhatIfSports on the map.\n\nIn the years that followed, the WhatIfSports project began earning more money than the computer consulting work, as more and more companies began trimming back their information technology budgets. In 2003 WhatIfSports was officially incorporated; a growing staff was able to introduce new simulators for football, NBA basketball, hockey, and stock car racing.\n\nAfter two more years of continuous growth, WhatIfSports was acquired by Fox Interactive Media in the fall of 2005. This was around the same time Fox bought other properties such as MySpace, IGN and Scout.com.\n\nThe sites SimMatchup feature lets users pit any two teams against each other. The list of MLB teams goes back to the 1885, NFL football teams back to 1941, NHL hockey teams back to 1917, NBA basketball teams back to 1950, and NCAA basketball teams goes back to different years depending on the team. All simulators produce complete box scores and full play-by-play.\n\nThe sites SimLeagues lets users draft their own teams consisting of any player in MLB, NBA, NFL and NHL history and join leagues with other people. All leagues play full seasons (by today's standards) with playoffs. Complete stats are tracked for all players and teams.\n\nThe site has dynasty games for college football, college basketball, soccer and baseball where the user manages a team of fictional players over the course of several seasons. The user controls roster management, game planning, and in the college dynasties can advance from Division III schools up to Division I schools. In those games they have real colleges, but not players. There are other people who are also in the world with you.\n\nThe site offers extensive user forums for each of the major sports, along with more general discussions and a section called \"The Pit\" for trash talk and more mature themes. Generally, the most active forum is Baseball (Sim Baseball and Hardball Dynasty, along with MLB talk.) On August 14, 2007 a soccer forum was introduced to talk about all things soccer.\n\nThe site also offers a section called \"Beyond the Box Score\" which are a series of columns which contain weekly NFL projections on games and individual fantasy football performers, as well as explorations of various \"what if\" scenarios. In March 2008, the simulator correctly predicted seven of the eight elite 8 teams, all Final Four teams, the runner-up Memphis and champion Kansas.\n\nFor a short period of time the site had a Legends Chat. Well-known coaches or athletes would receive questions from users. The questions were screened and had to be submitted the day before the chat. There were only seven of these chats: Davey Johnson (11/28/06), Dan Reeves (12/5/06), Bobby Cremins (12/19/06), Jack Lengyel (1/23/07), John Robinson (2/1/07), John Chaney (2/14/07) and Jud Heathcote (3/7/07).\n\nFox's acquisition of the site was controversial with some users. There was also a dispute involving copyright issues about Major League Baseball logos and player names and likenesses. When a lawsuit was filed by CDM Fantasy Sports against the Major League Baseball Players Association and Major League Baseball Advanced Media (MLB's new media unit) over the use of such material, WhatIfSports eliminated MLB logos and player names and images, substituting generic descriptions of the players. This move generated some controversy with users, though the player names were restored after a federal court decision in favor of CDM Fantasy Sports. The logos have not yet been restored due to continuing copyright concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "50708358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50708358", "title": "Xiaomi Mi Band 2", "text": "Xiaomi Mi Band 2\n\nThe Xiaomi Mi Band 2 is a low cost, wearable activity tracker produced by Xiaomi. It was released on 7 June, 2016. Unlike its predecessor, the Xiaomi Mi Band 2 comes with an OLED screen and a capacitive button. In September of 2017, Xiaomi released an ultra low-cost version of the Mi Band 2, titled \"Mi Band - HRX Edition\"\n\nOn May 31st, 2018, Xiaomi released the Mi Band 3, the successor to the Mi Band 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28082848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28082848", "title": "Yolanthe Sneijder-Cabau", "text": "Yolanthe Sneijder-Cabau\n\nYolanthe Sneijder-Cabau ( Cabau van Kasbergen; 19 March 1985) is a Spanish-Dutch actress, model and television host.\n\nSneijder-Cabau was born on the Spanish island of Ibiza. Her father, Xavier Cabau (1954–2007), was Spanish, while her mother, Richarda \"Rici\" van Kasbergen, is Dutch. Xavier Cabau was a wealthy entrepreneur known as the \"King of Ibiza\", who owned several discothèques, restaurants, and bars. Sneijder-Cabau's childhood in Spain was marked by domestic violence, after her father experienced financial problems and became addicted to drugs. When she was five years old, her mother moved with her children to her native Netherlands. She has seven siblings, as well as five half-siblings from her father's second marriage. After graduating from high school at the age of 17, Sneijder-Cabau decided to pursue an acting career.\n\nSneijder-Cabau appeared in the Dutch productions \"Snowfever\" (2004) and \"Costa!\" (2005). From 2005 to 2008, she had a recurring role in the soap opera \"Onderweg naar morgen\". In 2006, Sneijder-Cabau starred in the short film \"Turkse chick\", which was nominated for a Gouden Kalf, the Dutch equivalent of an Academy Award. A real-life WAG, she appeared in the third season of the dramedy \"Voetbalvrouwen\", similar to the British series \"Footballers' Wives\". In 2006, 2007, and 2009, Sneijder-Cabau was voted the \"Sexiest Dutch Woman\" by the Dutch \"FHM\".\n\nSneijder-Cabau began a relationship with football player Wesley Sneijder in 2009. They were married on 17 July 2010 in Tuscany, Italy, six days after Sneijder played the final of the FIFA World Cup. Following her marriage, she changed her surname from Cabau van Kasbergen to Sneijder-Cabau, which she also uses professionally.\n\nSneijder-Cabau is a co-founder and ambassador of Stop Kindermisbruik, a foundation which aims to put an end to child sexual abuse in developing countries. Stop Kindermisbruik engages in actions such as freeing child prostitutes, preventing children from becoming child prostitutes, and helping freed children cope with the trauma they endured.\n\n"}
{"id": "7141288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7141288", "title": "ZTR Zaporizhia", "text": "ZTR Zaporizhia\n\nZTR Zaporizhia is a team handball club from Zaporizhia, Ukraine. Currently, ZTR Zaporizhia competes in the Ukrainian Men's Handball Super League. The club was before called ZYY and ZeMtY.\n\nThe club is renamed ZTR Zaporizhia in 1992.\n\nHandball Club ZTR (before called ZYY and ZeMtY) was established in 1966 on the basis of Zaporozhe branch of Dnepropetrovsk metallurgy institute. In 1992 Zaporozhye Transformer Plant (Zaporozhtransformator) has become a sponsor of the club, which was renamed to “ZTR”.\n\n\n\n"}
