{"id": "56288394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56288394", "title": "Abel Bosum", "text": "Abel Bosum\n\nAbel Bosum (born Nov. 4, 1955) is a Cree leader and negotiator who is currently serving as Grand Chief of the Grand Council of the Crees of Northern Quebec. (Eeyou Istchee) He has worked for the Grand Council of the Crees of Quebec since 1977 in various capacities. From 1984 to 1998, Bosum served as the Chief of his home nation the Oujé-Bougoumou Cree Nation. During his time as chief, he was able to negotiate a multimillion-dollar deal with the governments of Quebec and Canada to build a new village for the nation following the peoples' seventh forcible relocation due to mining and forestry activity in Northern Quebec. In 1998, he became the head negotiator of the Grand Council of the Crees of Quebec. Since 2015, Abel Bosum has also served as President of the Aanischaaukamikw Foundation and of the Aanischaaukamikw Cree Cultural institute. \n\nAbel Bosum was born the oldest of 11 children of his mother Lucy Busom. He was born on an island on Dore Lake in Northern Quebec. His father, Cypien Caron, was a French-Canadian from Quebec City who had a relationship with Lucy Busom in her settlement near Chibougamau, Quebec. His mother Lucy was not allowed to marry his father because of the traditional values of their community and so Abel Bosum would not meet his biological father until he was 53 years old. Abel Bosum's stepfather, Sam Neepoosh, would act as his father figure during his early years until Neepoosh passed away when Abel Bosum was 14 years old in 1969.\n\nFor 10 years, Abel Bosum attended the La Tuque Residential school in La Tuque, Quebec, run by the Missionary Society of the Church of England in Canada, 150 km north of Trois-Rivières. Once Abel Bosum left the school, he worked in underground mines in the Chibougamau area and also took fishing jobs in order to support his family. \n\nAbel Bosum studied business administration and began to work for the Grand Council of the Crees (GCC) at age 22 where he was named the head of its economic-development department. He held this position for 6 years. According to Abel Bosum, while he worked to help other Cree communities with the GCC, he came to the realisation that his own people were in need of support to help ameliorate their living conditions.\n\nIn 1984, at age 28, Abel Bosum became the chief of the Oujé-Bougoumou, a position he would hold for 14 years. Oujé-Bougoumou which translates to \"the place where the people gather\", is the Cree nation in which Abel Bosum was born. When Abel Bosum became its chief it marked the beginning of a new era for the people. Over the preceding half century, they had been struggling to survive as a group and were considered \"among the most destitute people of the developed world\". Between 1926 and 1970, they had been forced to move their settlements seven times because of mineral discoveries that had been made in the region of James Bay, their traditional homeland. Because of the amount of relocation that the nation had undergone, by the 1970s many of its members were living in tarpaper and plywood shacks along logging roads, without running water or heat, and were split into six family groups. Others had moved to other Northern Quebec First Nations communities. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Abel Bosum had moved to Val D'Or, Quebec. During the period before he became chief and while he worked for the Grand Council of the Quebec Crees, Abel Bosum served as a link among members of the community and its elders. When meeting and discussing with the Oujé-Bougoumou elders about the nation's situation, they and Abel Bosum decided that they wished to take action. With Abel Bosum as their leader, they decided to negotiate with the federal and provincial governments to try to rectify the situation of the nation and return it to a community that could flourish. It was under this premise that Abel Bosum became chief of the Oujé-Bougoumou with the goal of negotiating with the Province of Quebec to provide his people with more suitable living conditions and to defend and promote the Oujé-Bougoumou's aboriginal rights in Quebec and Canada.\n\nThere were several challenges that Abel Bosum faced in his negotiations on behalf of the Oujé-Bougoumou nation. One was their omission from the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement made in 1975 that provided compensation to Cree people in the James Bay region. These stipends from the Quebec provincial government would aid in the development of Cree nations. However due to the mistake of an employee of the Canadian Federal Department of Indian Affairs in 1936, who had falsely combined the Oujé-Bougoumou nation with the Mistassini Cree nation, one located 90 kilometres away, the Oujé-Bougoumou had no recognised land rights in their traditional territory. Thus, they were excluded from the benefits of the James Bay pact that other Cree nations were able to have. This issue is one that Abel Bosum spent significant time bringing awareness to. \n\nAbel Bosum's negotiation strategy was based on gaining recognition for the Oujé-Bougoumou who had not been able to sufficiently make themselves a priority to provincial and national government so as to effect change for their status. By having an anthropological study done of his people, Abel Bosum was able to give them a clear and distinct identity with a historical basis. This would legitimise the group and give them a stronger basis for their claim as a people. Abel Bosum then worked to develop a proposal that would allocate land to his people which he submitted to both the federal government of Canada and the provincial government of Quebec. Although at this time the nation itself had no financial resources left, they and Abel Bosum were supported by the Grand Council of the Crees to continue their struggle.\n\nDuring the negotiations he was leading on behalf of his people, Abel Bosum held many meetings among members of the Oujé-Bougoumou. The meetings had the goal of bringing together the interests of the community members surrounding a common goal and served to help bridge generational differences that existed among its members. By uniting the Oujé-Bougoumou around a common vision for their future, allowing elders to pass on their knowledge of traditional culture to the younger generations, and discussing the way things had been for the nation before contact with settlers in Northern Quebec due to mining, Abel mobilised the members of the younger generation of the Cree nation who began to pressure the government to act on the issues facing their community. Furthermore, because of the spread-out locations of the members of Oujé-Bougoumou, Abel Bosum strove to bring together his people even before they obtained their own territory. To do so he established an Oujé-Bougoumou office that organised them into a political action group. \n\nWhen attempting to obtain recognition from the federal and provincial governments, there were additional hurdles that Abel Bosum encountered. Because the Canadian federal government insisted that the Oujé-Bougoumou have a land base in order to be recognised, and the Quebec government, newly under Parti Quebecois leadership in 1976, \"strongly opposed the establishment of any new federal lands in Quebec,\" Abel Bosum found his nation at an impasse with the provincial government. However, after bringing a letter to René Levesque, premier of Quebec, from the federal government stating that the Oujé-Bougoumou would be recognised upon obtaining a land base, and with much negotiation effort on the part of Abel Bosum and the Oujé-Bougoumou Crees, the premier conceded one square mile of territory for an Oujé-Bougoumou village. With this commitment secured, Abel Bosum returned to the federal government which agreed to begin negotiations to recognise the Oujé-Bougoumou officially. \n\nAbel Bosum's goal was for the Oujé-Bougoumou to become full participants in the treaty that benefited the Cree peoples of Northern Quebec, the James Bay Northern Quebec Agreement (JBNQA). But, the Quebec government told the Oujé-Bougoumou that they could only settle in an area not already part of a mining claim or part of a forestry concession in the region. This condition limited the options of the Oujé-Bougoumou such that they were not able to find a suitable territory to settle in because they lacked any commercial opportunities for the Oujé-Bougoumou people. In the early 1980s,the Oujé-Bougoumou traditional territory was occupied by two municipal areas, six mining sites, and the operations of six forestry companies. In 1985, after a change in the leadership of the Quebec provincial government to the Quebec liberal party, Abel Bosum tried to negotiate with the new premier, Robert Bourassa. These negotiations did not last long before an impasse was reached and so Abel Bosum decided to take another approach.\n\nAbel Bosum then decided to get into contact with someone who had been involved with the original JBNQA negotiations. Member of Provincial Parliament John Ciaccia, had negotiated on behalf of Quebec and was able to inform Abel Bosum of what obstacles needed to be overcome in order to solve the challenge he had been facing to obtain recognised territory for his people. Abel Bosum was able to reach a verbal agreement with this senior provincial minister to re-negotiate Oujé-Bougoumou land as soon as the Quebec Liberal party came to power. \n\nIn his dealings with the Quebec provincial government, Abel Bosum first wished to have his people granted a larger area in which to live by the province than one square mile. He was able to get the Liberal Quebec government to agree to grant his people a territory similar in size to that of other Cree nations in Northern Quebec. Although at this time, Quebec refused to re-open the JBNQA talks, there were a certain number of Oujé-Bougoumou registered under the Mistissini nation, which was a part of the agreement. Abel's strategy consisted of proposing that Mistissini land be transferred to the Oujé-Bougoumou based on the number of Oujé-Bougoumou among the Mistissini so that the Oujé-Bougoumou could effectively be under the treaty. Abel Bosum then had John Ciaccia amend the JBNQA to effect this change.\n\nAnother way that Abel Bosum was able to put pressure on the government was by having the Grand Council of the Crees proclaim that they would not be a signatory party to any agreement unless the Oujé-Bougoumou be also included. Abel Bosum says that he subsequently had \"several meetings with the prime minister\" of Canada that were able to secure more commitments from the federal government. In 1986, this brought him to the point where he could, with the consultation of his people, select a site where their new village would be developed.\n\nDuring the time he was negotiating with the Provincial and Federal governments to improve the situation of his people, Abel Bosum concurrently had to deal with the social issues that his community faced living in makeshift settlements along remote highways. Abel Bosum referred to their condition as an \"urgent\" one and worked to instill temporary measures to safeguard the health and well-being of the Oujé-Bougoumou while a new area of settlement was being negotiated. For example, Abel Bosum was able to \"get some funding\" to install trailers with washrooms and running water in the six main encampments at which his people resided. \n\nIn order to apply pressure on the government, Abel Bosum also involved the media and his own people to document the conditions that the Oujé-Bougoumou were living in and expose their situation to the public. Through the media coverage they received, the Oujé-Bougoumou were also able \"to attend various conferences dealing with human rights and housing where they could bring awareness surrounding their struggles.\" By informing the public of his people's situation, and emphasizing the human rights violations they were encountering within a first world country, Abel Bosum successfully put more pressure on the provincial and federal governments to change the situation of the Oujé-Bougoumou and negotiations re-started with more commitment on their part. \n\nThe federal government began to make preliminary offers to Abel Bosum and the Oujé-Bougoumou to finance their new settlement however these offers were lower than the nation thought it needed to adequately address the needs of the community. The federal government decided to provide a maximum of $14 million CAD to the Oujé-Bougoumou to begin their new village, but after much internal discussion and consultation with the elders, and despite the risk that they might not get another offer as other first nations had not gotten after refusing a government offer, Abel Bosum refused the offer on behalf of the Oujé-Bougoumou.\n\nAfter a year of silence from the government on the issue, the Oujé-Bougoumou were looking to apply pressure by whatever means they could on the government to get a larger financial commitment from it for the construction of their village. First, Abel Bosum encouraged his people to occupy the site that they had chosen for their home without a final agreement granting them the territory. Energy Resources Quebec opposed this strategy and demanded that they stop building on the land. However, the Cree disobeyed and made camps as they left their former makeshift ones by the sides of the roads. Second, with more young Cree getting involved, discussions began surrounding blockades and other acts of civil disobedience. For maximum impact, Abel Bosum and the Oujé-Bougoumou decided to block a nearby forestry road that also served as an access road to mining sites and to a popular recreational fishing location, the Assinica river. This strategy affected the commerce in the area significantly as it obstructed activities of three resource sectors and \"created a lot of tension for the region.\" \n\nWith the pressure put on the government based on the disruptive civil disobedience practiced by the Oujé-Bougoumou in Northern Quebec, real strides were made to reach a final agreement for the village in which this nation could permanently reside. Abel Bosum was contacted by the Liberal provincial minister of natural resources for Quebec, Raymond Savoie who wished to meet with him to develop a comprehensive agreement that would put an end to the grievances of the Oujé-Bougoumou. At the meeting was a delegation of 15 members from Quebec as well as one negotiator from the Canadian government who had come to speak with Abel Bosum. In discussions that went late into the night and early into the morning, the governments agreed in principle to support the construction of the Oujé-Bougoumou village and \"to provide a social and economic development fund\" that would serve to keep the Oujé-Bougoumou people employed and allow them to develop their own economic opportunities in the future. However, the federal government later backed out of the agreement because it did not agree with the principle of a social and economic development fund. Because the province of Quebec felt more pressure from the civil disobedience of the Oujé-Bougoumou to make a deal with them, Abel Bosum continued to negotiate solely with the province. Finally he was able to obtain a deal granting the Oujé-Bougoumou financial support for the infrastructure of their village and a $20 million contribution towards social and economic development for the nation as well as 167 square kilometers of land. He then sought to use this agreement to put leverage on the federal government to gain their contribution for the village's success. Making use as he had earlier of information politics, this time in the form of a media campaign, so that dialogue might continue with the federal government, Abel Bosum pressured them to put a new negotiator in place to deal with the Oujé-Bougoumou and other Cree issues. By the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Oujé-Bougoumou's struggle had become a symbolic one for aboriginal rights issues in Canada. \n\nIn 1992, Abel Bosum and Oujé-Bougoumou signed a deal that brought them $43.6 million from the federal government towards the construction of their village. Though this deal, according to Abel Bosum, \"'did not include everything we wanted,\" it was considered by him to be a good enough one to justify signing especially given the pressing needs of the members of the Oujé-Bougoumou who did not have homes.\n\nThe village that Abel Bosum is credited with founding is located Lake Opemisca, Quebec. Built in consultation with the Oujé-Bougoumou people, it is home to 750 Cree and has been recognised by the United Nations as one of 50 model communities worldwide. It gained this recognition because it was able to fulfill needs of the community while also being an environmentally sustainable and technologically advanced settlement. Although it is located in a remote area of Northern Quebec, its inhabitants have a low level of unemployment and new houses are continuing to be built to meet the demand of young Cree people who wish to gain ownership of their own home. The village is considered to be a unique one in Canada as it provides excellent living conditions in modern houses to Indigenous peoples. The design of the village is one that seeks to reflect the \"values and culture of the Oujé-Bougoumou people.\" \n\nAfter securing the deal to finance his village with the Quebec and Canadian governments, Abel Bosum as chief of the Oujé-Bougoumou worked to facilitate the social and economic development for his people in their new home. This involved securing access to essential natural resources so that his community could be financially self-sustaining as well as tackling social issues that his people had developed mainly due to the instability of their dwellings. For example at a certain point, \"over 90 per cent of Oujé-Bougoumou adults had alcohol problems, and that has fallen below 50 per cent.\" Abel Bosum's main goal for his village however was for it to prove that aboriginal groups in Canada can make good use of the resources provided to them by the government and that these communities can exist in an politically and economically independent state.\n\nBased on his work in advocating for his own nation's rights with the government of Quebec, in 1998, Abel Bosum was chosen to negotiate on behalf of all the Crees of Quebec as the GCC Quebec negotiator. In the year 2000, he was able \"to break a two-year-long impasse between the Crees and Quebec.\" In the summer of 2000, he began negotiating with Quebec on the 1975 James Bay agreement, eventually reaching a new agreement for governing the James Bay region with the Quebec government in 2012.\n\nIn 2002, Abel Bosum led the negotiations of the Agreement Respecting a New Relationships Between the Cree Nation and the Government of Quebec (La Paix des Braves) signed on February 7th, 2002, between the Government of Quebec and the Grand Council of the Crees (GCC). This agreement serves to better integrate the Crees into the economic activities that go on in their region, shares the revenues from them with Quebec Crees, and also allows them to make decisions pertaining to their own development with the funds they receive from the provincial government.\n\nAbel Bosum has worked to negotiate on behalf of the Cree Board of Health and Social Services of James Bay in order to obtain health and social services for Cree people. He has also negotiated for the Cree School Board and represented the GCC in discussions with neighbouring aboriginal nations.\n\nFurthermore, he has negotiated on behalf of the GCC and several individual Cree communities \"with five mining companies to ensure financial benefits, employment and environmental protection measures\" be provided to Cree people in the areas where mining activities are conducted.\n\nFinally, in 2012, he negotiated the James Bay Governance Agreement that would change the way the region is administered by giving \"Cree jurisdiction over the traditional Cree territory.\" The agreement also developed new Cree governance structures.\n\nAbel Bosum was chosen as president of the Aanischaaukamikw Foundation and Cree Cultural Institute on April 2nd, 2015. Abel Bosum has helped to raise $25.6 million to develop the institute. The foundation is a registered charitable organisation, is not-for-profit, and obtained the funding it required to build the cultural institute from \"Cree and non-Cree governments, corporate partners, private foundations and individuals.\"\n\nAbel Bosum was elected for a four-year term as Grand Chief of the Council of the Crees of Northern Quebec on July 24th, 2017 with 55.9% of the vote share. He defeated the outgoing Deputy Grand Chief Rodney Mark. He succeeded Grand Chief Matthew Coon Come who had previously served five-terms as Grand Chief over a 40-year period. \n\nAs Grand Chief he has overseen the adoption of Bill C-70 into law by the Canadian government. The bill provides the Eeyou Istchee with a higher degree of political self-determination as it allows the GCC to \"create its own culturally relevant laws and have more say on a variety of local governance issues, including development.\" The bill is an extension of the rights provided in the 1975 James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement. According to Abel Bosum, as expressed in his address to the Standing Senate Committee on Aboriginal Peoples, it as an important step to advancing towards full Cree self-governance.\n\nIn 1998, Abel Bosum received Canada's National Aboriginal Achievement Award in the category of Community Development for his work with the Oujé-Bougoumou Cree community.\n\nIn June of 2016, Abel Bosum received the degree of Doctor of Civil Law, Honoris Causa, from Bishop's University in Sherbrooke, Quebec. And, in 2018, he was appointed to the Order of Canada, an honour recognising \"outstanding achievement, dedication to the community and service to the nation.\"\n"}
{"id": "25514471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25514471", "title": "Adrián Guida", "text": "Adrián Guida\n\nAdrián Nicolás Guida (Buenos Aires, 26 March 1965 - 12 December 1994) was an Argentine tango musician. His works at Osvaldo Pugliese's Orchestra were notable, including songs 'Contame una historia', 'Bailemos' and 'Milonga para Gardel', featuring Abel Córdoba. He died from pulmonary edema in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "6603753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6603753", "title": "Alexandra Billings", "text": "Alexandra Billings\n\nAlexandra Scott Billings (born March 28, 1962) is an American actress, teacher, singer, and activist. Billings is among the first openly transgender women to have played a transgender character on television, which she did in the 2005 made-for-TV movie \"Romy and Michele: In The Beginning\". She is also known for portraying the recurring character Davina in the Amazon series \"Transparent\" and has played transgender characters in \"ER\", \"Eli Stone\", \"How to Get Away with Murder\" and \"Grey's Anatomy\".\n\nBillings' father, Robert Billings, was a music teacher at Los Angeles Harbor College and the musical director for the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera, which influenced her interest in theater. She assisted, working backstage with Carol Burnett and Yul Brynner. She also appeared in \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" and \"The Roar of the Greasepaint—the Smell of the Crowd\". In her early life, Billings struggled with homelessness, prostitution, and cocaine and opioid addiction.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Billings worked under the stage name Shante at the famed Baton Show Lounge in Chicago, Illinois. Winning a series of beauty contests, she was named Miss Wisconsin, Miss New York, Miss Chicago, Miss Illinois, and Miss Florida. She also served as a judge of the Miss Continental pageant in 2000 and 2001.\n\nMost of Billings' professional work has been in Chicago theaters, most notably The Bailiwick Theater, Light Opera Works, Court Theatre, and Steppenwolf Theatre. She has collaborated on plays with such notable authors as Larry Kramer, Tina Landau, and Jamie Pachino. She has received one Joseph Jefferson Award and five After Dark Awards for her work in Chicago Theater. Her one-person autobiographical show has toured to Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and off Broadway. She is a former artistic associate of About Face Theatre.\n\nMore recently, Billings has appeared in an autobiographical show, \"S/He and Me.\" In fall 2018, she also appeared in The Nap at Manhattan Theatre Club, and is one of the first openly trans people (if not the first) to be cast in a trans role on Broadway.\n\nIn the early 2000s, WTTW, the PBS station in Chicago, produced a documentary about Billings' life and career, \"Schoolboy to Showgirl: The Alexandra Billings Story.\" \n\nShe has taught Viewpoints at the Steppenwolf Summer School since 2002 as well as taught at Louis University, The University of Chicago, Illinois University,the Illinois Theatre Convention, Act One Studios, and various classes and workshops around the Chicago area. Currently, she teaches at the Steppenwolf School West in Los Angeles California. Billings is currently a professor at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, California where she is a Theatre professor. Before working at USC, she was an assistant professor at California State University, Long Beach. She received her MFA from CSULB, and delivered the commencement speech for CSULB College of the Arts in 2015.\n\nBillings is also a professional singer who performs in theaters and nightclubs throughout the United States. She recorded her second CD \"The Story Goes On\" in 2003. She was a recipient of the New York MAC Hanson Award for Cabaret Artist of the Year in 2004.\n\nIn 2010, Billings appeared in the film \"FAUX\", in which she commented on gay marriage spurring the economy.\n\nIn 2017, transgender actors and actresses, including Billings (with the help of GLAAD and ScreenCrush), were part of a film to Hollywood written by Jen Richards, asking for more and improved roles for transgender people.\n\nShe has appeared in the 2005 made-for-TV movie \"Romy and Michelle: A New Beginning\". She has also played transgender characters in episodes of \"Karen Sisco\", \"ER\", \"Eli Stone\", \"How to Get Away with Murder\" and \"Grey's Anatomy\".\n\nIn 2015, Billings appeared on season two, episode six of \"How to Get Away with Murder\" as Professor Jill Hartford.\n\nIn 2018, Billings plays Judge Martha Wallace in the second season of \"Goliath\".\n\nBillings may be best known for her role as Davina in the Amazon series \"Transparent\". The character was introduced in an early episode of season one and has appeared in subsequent seasons.\n\nAlexandra Billings is an AIDS and LGBTQ activist who argues for the equality of the LGBTQ community and urges others to use their voices to create change within the LGBTQ community. In 2016, Billings was awarded the Human Rights Campaign Visibility Award, which recognizes outstanding members of the LGBTQ community who live openly and freely in the public eye. After receiving the award, Billings thanked the audience, but also said, “I look around and I see you all and I cannot tell you how grateful I am that you’re here, and I have to say something to you I think you look great, you look swell and it’s wonderful that you’re here eating the chicken it’s delightful but I must tell you that we have to do something more than sit and speak and talk to our neighbors and eat great food and put on fancy clothes.” She challenges the audience to use their voices to speak loudly in order to create change and ultimately, equality for the LGBTQ community. In 2017, Transparent, the hit TV show Billings stars in, won the GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Comedy Series. When accepting the award on behalf of the cast, Billings urges the audience to talk to people who disagree with their beliefs in order to spark conversation and create change instead of staying complacent. Specifically, she calls out the older LGBTQ generation and asks them to guide the younger LGBTQ generation because they will be the ones continuing the fight for equality in the future. When delivering the commencement speech to the graduating class of the University of California State, Long Beach in 2015, Billings once again emphasized the importance of voice when she told the students that it is their job is to speak loud, big, and wide in order to spread their voices.\n\nBillings lives in Hollywood, California with her wife Chrisanne, whom she initially met at age sixteen in drama class. They were married in a commitment ceremony in Chicago on December 4, 1995. Billings was chosen as the Grand Marshal for the Pride Parade in Chicago, Illinois on June 28, 2009.\n\nBillings has been living with HIV since 1994, and has been an advocate for HIV health initiatives, as well as trans issues and trans rights. When talking about her fight to battle AIDS, she says that she believes the reason she has survived all these years is because of her wife who stood by her, loved her, and supported her through it all. She has spoken about her status in a number of interviews, including a 2016 article with her hometown paper. She also spoke to POZ Magazine for a 2003 interview about life with HIV.\n\n"}
{"id": "6214182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6214182", "title": "Alexandros Schinas", "text": "Alexandros Schinas\n\nAlexandros Schinas () (c.1870 – May 6, 1913), also known as Aleko Schinas, (in the 1870's, most probably in Volos where he was the founder of an anarchist school – May 6, 1913 in Thessaloniki), was a Greek anarchist notable for assassinating King George I of Greece in Thessaloniki in 1913 as an example of propaganda of the deed.\n\nSchinas was most probably born in Volos in the 1870's. Schinas studied medicine in univercity of Athens and during that time developed interest on anarchism. There he opened a famous anarchist school in Volos but was shut down by the government.. After spending some time and working in New York City he returned to Greece in February 1913.. By that time, he was alcoholic and leaning towards anarchism.\n\nOn March 18, 1913, at around 5:15 PM,Schinas (who was around 40 at the time) shot King George I in the back from a distance of two paces while the king was walking in Thessaloniki, near White Tower. Entering below the king's shoulder blade, the bullet pierced his heart. By the time the king arrived at the hospital, he was already dead.\n\nSchinas was taken into custody immediately, initially refusing to explain the reason for the crime. Later, Schinas declared that he killed the king because the latter refused to give him the money he asked for. The Greek government released statements claiming that Schinas was an alcoholic vagrant.Schinas was tortured throughout the following night, being \"forced to undergo examinations\", but he refused to give the names of any accomplices. On May 6, he died by allegedly jumping out of the window of the gendarmerie in Thessaloniki, but is unclear whether it was a suicide. \n\nAll istorians cites Schinas as educated anarchist.\n\n"}
{"id": "47813739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47813739", "title": "Alice Gibson", "text": "Alice Gibson\n\nAlice Gibson (born 3 September 1923) is a former Chief Librarian from Belize, who has been active in development of the country's library system. Beginning her career as a social worker, she became interested in fostering libraries throughout the country. She earned a degree from the British Library Service and founded libraries throughout the country.\n\nAlice Gibson was born on 3 September 1923, in Belize City, British Honduras. She attended St. John’s Primary School. In her early career, she worked as a social worker and assisted in collecting data on poverty in Belize, including teenage pregnancy, and unemployment. She is a librarian and has been active in development of a library system for the country. She began as an assistant librarian in 1955 and founded reading groups for girls. She was qualified as a librarian in 1961 earning \"Associate of the Library Association\" degree from the British Library Association (as it was then known).\n\nGibson traveled the country training library personnel and developing rural libraries, helping to establish several dozen in the country. In 1976, she was appointed to Chief Librarian for the country and maintained that position until her retirement in 1978. After retirement, Gibson returned to work and in 1993, was serving as the principal librarian of the National Library Service. She is the current head of the library at the Pallotti High School of Belize City. In 2006, she was honored, along with other Chief Librarians, for contributions to the development of libraries in Belize.\n"}
{"id": "51735018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51735018", "title": "Amar Nath Bhaduri", "text": "Amar Nath Bhaduri\n\nAmar Nath Bhaduri (1935–2003) was an Indian molecular enzymologist and chemical biologist, known for his studies on UDP-glucose 4-epimerase, a homodimeric epimerase found in cells and his work on Leishmania donovani, the protozoal pathogen for Kala-azar. He was the director of the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB), Kolkata and an elected fellow of the Indian National Science Academy and the Indian Academy of Sciences. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, the apex agency of the Government of India for scientific research, awarded him the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology, one of the highest Indian science awards, in 1978, for his contributions to biological sciences.\n\nAmar Nath Bhaduri, born on 12 November 1935 at Shyambazar, in northern Kolkata in the Indian state of West Bengal, did his schooling at the Scottish Church Collegiate School before continuing his college studies at Presidency College and the University College of Science, Technology & Agriculture of Calcutta University. Moving to the US, he secured the degree of Doctor of Science from University of Michigan, Ann Arbor in 1964 and after completing his post-doctoral studies at Harvard Medical School, returned to India in 1966 to join the Jadavpur University as a member of faculty of the department of pharmacy. He served the institution till his move to the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB) in 1985 and superannuated as the director of the institute; in between, he had a short stint at Roche Institute of Molecular Biology during 1975–76. Post his retirement, he continued his association with IICB as an emeritus scientist. He was also serving as an honorary professor at Calcutta and Jadvapur universities when he died on 5 June 2003 at Kolkata, succumbing to age-related illnesses, at the age of 67, survived by his wife, son and daughter. The Indian National Science Academy has documented his life in their \"Biographical Memoirs\".\n\nAt the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Bhaduri was associated with Paul Srere and worked on citrate metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis. It was during his post-doctoral studies at Harvard Medical School, he elucidated the effect of uridine nucleotides on an epimerase. Later, he continued his researches at Jadavpur University and discovered methodologies for the purification of Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and for the regulation of UDP-glucose 4-epimerase from S. fragilis. His researches revealed that the enzyme was \"allosterically activated by metabolically-related sugar phosphates\" and its allosteric kinetics is uni-directional, a property helpful in the regulation of galactose metabolism. He also proposed a protocol for the desensitization of the enzyme by heat, thereby generating hyperbolic kinetics and demonstrated that the addition and dissociation of Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide activated or de-activated the enzyme. His work was reported to have widened the understanding about the active sites of the enzyme as well as of the molecular mechanisms of allostericity. He studied the host-parasite interaction of Leishmania donovani, a protozoal pathogen affecting humans, and his work attempted to explain the biomodulatory role for Ca2+ in the life cycle of the parasite. His researches have been published by way of several articles and he mentored many scholars in their doctoral researches.\n\nBhaduri, who sat in the editorial boards of journals such as the Journal of Biosciences from 1986 to 1992 and the \"Indian Journal of Biochemistry and Biophysics\" from 1983 to 1991, was a member of the national organizing committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (IUBMB) Congress held in New Delhi in 1994. He served as the project director for the UNDP project on \"Molecular Biology and Biotechnology of Parasites\" and presided the biochemistry and biophysics section of the Indian Science Congress held in Kochi in 1990. He was a president of the Institute of Science, Education and Culture (ISEC), Kolkata.\n\nBhaduri delivered several award orations including the B. C. Guha Memorial Lecture of the University of Calcutta in 1989. An elected fellow of the Indian National Science Academy (1986) and the Indian Academy of Sciences (1989), he was awarded the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize, one of the highest Indian science awards, by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research in 1978. Indian National Science Academy honored him again with Jagadis Chandra Bose Medal in 1995. He has received DSc (Honaris Causa) from Burdwan University in 1995 and his name has been included in the list of 200 illustrious alumni of Presidency University during their Bicentenary celebration.\n\n"}
{"id": "46274727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46274727", "title": "Amos Yee", "text": "Amos Yee\n\nAmos Yee Pang Sang (, born 31 October 1998) is a Singaporean YouTube personality, blogger and former child actor.\n\nIn late March 2015, shortly after the death of the first Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, Yee uploaded a video on YouTube criticising Lee. In the video, Yee compared Lee to Jesus, and cast both in an unfavourable light. Yee also uploaded to his blog an image depicting Lee and Margaret Thatcher engaged in anal sex. Yee was arrested and charged with \"intention of wounding the religious feelings of Christians\", obscenity, and \"threatening, abusive or insulting communication.\" The first two charges fall under the Singapore Penal Code. The third charge, which was later withdrawn, was a response to the video's criticism of Lee and falls under the Protection from Harassment Act (POHA).\n\nYee's trial, which took place on 7 to 8 May 2015, attracted much public interest. The court found Yee guilty on 12 May 2015, and sentenced him to four weeks in jail. Sentencing was backdated to include 53 days served in remand, and hence Yee was freed immediately following the trial. Yee appealed against both the court conviction and sentence on 9 July 2015. Yee's imprisonment drew criticism from human rights organisations, including Amnesty International, which considered Yee to be a prisoner of conscience.\n\nOn 16 December 2016, Yee fled to the United States to seek political asylum. On 24 March 2017, Yee was originally granted asylum in the United States of America by the Chicago court, but the U.S. government appealed against the decision to grant Yee asylum, so he was held at the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) center during the appeal process. Amos Yee was released from a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in downtown Chicago on 26 September 2017 following an immigration appeals court's decision to uphold his bid for asylum.\n\nIn 2017 Amos gained overwhelmingly negative attention for his videos and debates in favour of pedophilia. In December 2017 Yee was evicted from his apartment in Chicago due to his pro-pedophile stance. In May 2018 Amos' channel was removed by YouTube due to his content being in breach of YouTube’s content policies.\n\nAmos Yee Pang Sang (余澎杉) was born on 31 October 1998, in Singapore, the only child of Alphonsus Yee, a computer engineer, and Mary Toh Ai Buay, a mathematics teacher. Yee was raised in Singapore as part of an ethnically Chinese family.\n\nYee studied at Pei Chun Public School, where he took the Primary School Leaving Examination, and obtained a score of 244, with A* for Mathematics and Science, and A for English and Chinese. He then attended Zhonghua Secondary School, where he completed the O Levels and decided not to continue with post-secondary school education, despite \"good results\" as described by \"Today\". In 2015, \"The Straits Times\" described him as \"a school leaver who blogged that he intended to pursue a career in film and YouTube videos\". Yee practices taekwondo, has been using social media from the age of eight, and is an atheist.\n\nYee, who was raised Catholic, and began attending Mass independent of his family in secondary one, considered himself a practising Catholic until mid-2013. In 2013, Yee is reported to have been \"kicked out\" from service as an altar boy after swearing during a meeting. Yee describes having been asked to leave the Church after he told a priest about his reservations about Confirmation, although this account is disputed by the Catholic Church in Singapore. Yee questioned the implications of Confirmation and began researching Catholicism and Christianity in general by watching YouTube videos and reading blogs on atheism.\n\nYee also identifies as a feminist.\n\nIn March 2011, Yee won awards for Best Short Film and Best Actor at \"The New Paper\"'s First Film Fest (FFF) for his film \"Jan\". \"The New Paper\" described Yee as having taken on four different acting roles in his \"self-written, self-directed film\", which was described as a \"twisted dark comedy\" in which a boy tries to persuade his three friends to help a cancer-stricken girl. Yee, thirteen at the time, was described as having made the film \"in his bedroom\". The FFF awarded Yee a Sony Handycam NEX-VG10 video camera and Sony Vegas Movie Studio HD Platinum 10 video editing software.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Jan\", FFF chief judge Jack Neo offered an internship to Yee, and additionally invited Yee to audition for Neo's film, \"We Not Naughty\", a film about juvenile delinquency. When Yee did so in May 2011, Neo cast Yee in a minor acting role after Yee improvised and improved the language in a script given to him. Yee played a \"smart younger brother\" to a lead actor's character, and was allowed by Neo to write his own dialogue. Neo said that while Yee only had three scenes in the movie, they were \"crucial\". Neo also praised Yee as a \"natural comedian\" with a passion for film-making. Regarding Yee being labelled as arrogant, Neo said that \"just because [Yee] acts arrogant doesn't mean he is ... He is an actor, he's playing a role\". Yet, Neo also suggested that Yee needed to learn humility.\n\nIn January 2012, Yee was widely criticised by netizens for uploading a video to YouTube which – according to \"My Paper\" – \"called the Chinese New Year a rip-off of the Western New Year's Day\". Garnering over 150,000 views, Yee later clarified that the video was satirical in nature. \"The New Paper\" described Yee as \"mocking the origins of the zodiac and joking about how children should be given a one-month holiday for Chinese New Year\" in the video. Within the video, Yee had also said that it was his \"fake representation\" of Chinese New Year.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", prior to his 2015 Lee Kuan Yew video, Yee had uploaded \"more than a dozen comedic riffs ... on subjects including Singapore's legal ban on homosexuality, \"The Hunger Games\", Valentine's Day, \"Boyhood\" and the decision to drop out of school 'to pursue my \"career\" as a 17-year-old boy ranting in front of a video camera'.\" Nathan Heller of \"The New Yorker\" also noted in 2015 that Yee had been publishing homemade videos which were \"directed equally toward the Singaporean youth and a more international, American-style audience\".\n\nOn 23 March Lee Kuan Yew, the first Prime Minister of Singapore, died of severe pneumonia in hospital. On 27 March Yee uploaded a nearly nine-minute long video to YouTube titled \"Lee Kuan Yew is Finally Dead!\" In the expletive-laden video, Yee likened Lee to Jesus, saying that both were \"power-hungry and malicious but deceive others into thinking they are both compassionate and kind. Their impact and legacy will ultimately not last as more and more people find out that they are full of bull\". Yee went on to describe Lee's followers as \"completely delusional and ignorant\" with \"absolutely no sound logic or knowledge about him that is grounded in reality\", while accusing Christians of a similar lack of knowledge of the Bible's teachings. Apart from conveying his hope that the late Lee would not rest in peace, Yee also said that Lee was a \"horrible person\", an \"awful leader\" and \"a dictator but managed to fool most of the world to think he was democratic\". Lastly, Yee issued a challenge to Lee's son, Lee Hsien Loong, stating that if the younger Lee, the current Prime Minister, wished to sue him, Yee would \"oblige to dance with him\". The 2015 video has since been viewed more than 1 million times.\n\nBefore uploading the video, Yee said that he was \"slightly apprehensive\" that what he was doing might be illegal, and told two friends about it. He also looked up the Sedition Act, and told his mother he was making a video criticising Mr Lee but did not go into details. She advised him against uploading it but he went ahead anyway. Yee said that his ideas were influenced by meet-ups with members from the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP). Yee was also introduced to Roy Ngerng's blog by an SDP member, and Yee said he was convinced by what Ngerng had published.\n\n\"The Straits Times\" reported that Yee \"was largely slammed by netizens over the video, although some defended his right to his opinion\", whilst the BBC News reported that the video drew a \"visceral response from Singaporeans\". The 2015 video resulted in several violent and threatening remarks being made against Yee online, including rape threats, which led to calls by the Media Literacy Council and the Singapore Kindness Movement urging netizens to act responsibly and civilly, even when facing views they find offensive.\n\nSingaporean actors Gurmit Singh and Quan Yi Fong, who both have teenage children, weighed in on the issue. Singh placed the blame on Yee's parents, saying that \"parents are supposed to be there to guide the child\", while Quan said that in this case, Yee's \"parents should have brought him to see a doctor\". \"Today\" published a piece by Edwin Teong, who felt that Yee's video was one of several \"recent cases\" involving Singaporean youth which \"reflect the recklessness and the lack of self-awareness that can lead to youths making mistakes, which burden not only themselves but also their families\". Mikha Chan of \"Free Malaysia Today\" characterised Yee as a \"wannabe intellectual\" and \"an opinionated person who talks loud and way too long on the same subject, often sensationalising the subject matter\" regarding his video. Grace Fu, Singapore's second minister for foreign affairs, said that \"it's not just any YouTube video; I think it was a YouTube video that crossed the red line on religion\". Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, in an interview with Time, said that the \"governing authorities are open to criticism\", but that the \"ability to exercise the freedom of expression comes with limits\".\n\nThirty-two police reports were made against Yee's uploading of the 2015 video, while another police report was made against alleged obscene material on Yee's blog, where Yee had displayed and claimed credit for making a caricature \"of Lee Kuan Yew engaging in anal sex with former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher\". \"The Straits Times\" reported that Yee's mother had filed a police report against her son because she was unable to control his behaviour. Yee's mother, Mary Toh, later told \"The Online Citizen\" that she had filed a police report on 29 March, \"not ... to have my son arrested\", but in response to Yee publishing a vulgar image online despite her objections, leading her to fear for his safety. As she assumed that police action would soon be taken against her son, she filed a report in which she apologised to the nation for her son's actions and requested counselling for Yee. This was later reported by \"Today\", which added that on 5 May Yee's mother told the police that she no longer wanted to provide a statement.\n\nYee was arrested on 29 March, on the grounds of \"deliberate intention of wounding the religious or racial feelings\", \"threatening, abusive or insulting communication\" and obscenity. His arrest drew international media attention. BBC News reported that \"Yee was one of several people who went online to publicly criticise Mr Lee's legacy – others include human rights activists and a prominent poet – but he is the only one to have been arrested\". \"The Guardian\" wrote that \"For some, the lodging of police reports and subsequent arrest of Yee is a sign that the suppression of free speech during Lee's time in power has continued as a part of governance in Singapore.\" Nathan Heller of \"The New Yorker\" wrote that \"Yee's arrest doesn't just underscore his complaints about Singapore's backwardness on rights and freedom. It shows the country's dire need for cultural education through intelligent dissent.\" Ben Mathis-Lilley of \"Slate\" said that \"details of the situation are ridiculous ... If you watch the YouTube video, it becomes clear that Amos Yee is probably not an armed insurrectionist\", while further labelling the Singaporeans who reported Yee to the police as \"narcs\".\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists organisation, and a petition started by a Christian Singaporean, both called for Yee's release, Abdul Rani Kulup Abdullah, chief of the Martabat Jalinan Muhibbah Malaysia organisation, praised the arrest of Yee, and encouraged Malaysia to follow Singapore's example of implementing strict laws on free speech to prevent \"irresponsible statements\" or \"criticism [against the government which] may not be true but people can get influenced\" leading to \"anarchy\".\n\nOn 31 March three charges were read out to Yee in the State Courts of Singapore, two of which were related to the 2015 video. The first charge was that Yee's 2015 video violated Section 298 of the Penal Code, Chapter 224, as it \"contained remarks against Christianity, with the deliberate intention of wounding the religious feelings of Christians in general\". The second charge was under Section 4 of the Protection from Harassment Act (later withdrawn) was that Yee's 2015 video violated the Protection from Harassment Act 2014 as it \"contained remarks about Mr Lee Kuan Yew which was intended to be heard and seen by persons likely to be distressed\". The third charge was that Yee had violated Section 292 of the Penal Code, by uploading an obscene image of Lee and Thatcher on 28 March 2015. BBC News reported that \"Singapore's hate speech laws are intended to ensure harmony between its multi-ethnic population and prevent a recurrence of the racial violence of its early years.\"\n\nYee was initially released on bail set at 20,000 Singapore dollars on 31 March 2015 on the condition that he not comment or distribute any content online while the case was still ongoing. Meanwhile, Yee's father, whom Yee describes as being physically abusive, addressed Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, saying that he was \"very sorry\". On 3 April, Yee's mother brought him to the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) to see a psychiatrist to understand why he seemed \"too daring\" and feared nothing, but Yee quit after two sessions. Today reported that this was because Amos refused to continue the sessions at IMH, but this was contradicted by former bailor Vincent Law, who later told The Online Citizen that Yee could not attend the third IMH session because it had clashed with the day of his bail review hearing, and that Yee had unsuccessfully asked the institute to bring the session forward.\n\nOn 14 April Yee flouted his initial bail conditions by asking for public donations to fund his legal fees on both on his blog and Facebook page; the blog post also linked to his controversial 2015 video and image. At 17 April pre-trial conference, Yee's police bail was converted to court bail of the same amount, while anyone, and not just his parents, was now allowed to post bail. Yee was taken into remand in Changi Prison for the duration of 17 to 21 April 2015 because no one in that time period posted bail, despite the bail amount only needing to be pledged instead of being physically deposited. On 21 April, Yee was bailed out by 51-year-old Vincent Law, a family and youth counsellor and a Christian parent, despite Law having never met Yee before. Three lawyers, Alfred Dodwell, Chong Jia Hao and Ervin Tan, also volunteered to represent him \"pro bono\".\n\nOn 29 April Yee breached his bail conditions on not uploading content online again by making two blog posts; the first questioned \"the ridiculous terms of [his] bail\", which Yee said \"has absolutely nothing to do with my presence in court\". In the second, he accused his father of being \"abusive\" and violent. On 30 April, the charge concerning remarks against Lee Kuan Yew was stood down. This means that the charge, instead of being dropped, would be dealt with at a later time, after the previous two charges are addressed. Yee also refused to take down the two blog posts despite being asked to by the District Judge Kessler Soh, as he felt that taking down the posts in question was tantamount to an admission of guilt. Concurrently, the bail amount was raised to $30,000. Meanwhile, Law applied to discharge himself as Yee's bailor. It remains to be decided whether Law will have to forfeit the previous $20,000 posted. Yee was again taken into remand because of a lack of anyone posting bail. Law later told \"The Online Citizen\" that while he wanted to post bail for Yee again, Yee rejected Law's offer as he did not want himself to be gagged, leading to Law discharging himself. Law also said that he did not regret acting as Yee's bailor, and that from talking to Yee, he had found him to be childlike and lacking in empathy.\n\nOn 6 May Yee's lawyers appealed for a change in bail amount and bail conditions, arguing that accessing social media was \"like drinking water\" to Yee, and that the ban on Yee posting online content was \"too broad and disproportionate\". The prosecution was willing to lower the bail amount and release Yee from having to report daily to a police station if Yee went for psychiatric counselling, but Yee refused. Consequently, the High Court judge Tay Yong Kwang decided to maintain Yee's bail conditions.\n\nYee was tried as an adult on 7–8 May 2015, with Yee pleading not guilty to both charges. The timeline was pushed for by Yee's lawyers so that Yee would not \"spend more time in remand than necessary\". The case has attracted much public interest, with more than 20 people seen outside Court 7 more than an hour before the hearing was supposed to start. When Yee was led into the courtroom in handcuffs and leg shackles, several members of the public who were present waved at him, and he smiled at them. Amongst those who attended the trial were both of Yee's parents, Yee's former bailor, Vincent Law, blogger Roy Ngerng, as well as social activists Andrew Loh and Teo Soh Lung. Law, who said he never changed his mind about bailing him out, said that he came to support Yee and hopes he gets a good trial. The prosecution comprises DPPs Hay Hung Chun, Hon Yi and Kelvin Kow. The Defence comprises Alfred Dodwell and Chong Jia Hao from Dodwell & Co LLC and Ervin Tan from Michael Hwang Chambers LLC. The proceedings were presided over by District Judge Jasvendar Kaur.\n\nThe proceedings began with arguments from the defence regarding the obscenity charge. They argued that the legal test to determine whether or not an image is obscene is whether \"it has an effect which is to tend to deprave and corrupt\" any person who is exposed to it, and that the prosecution has not provided any evidence that the image passes the test. They argued that Section 292, under which Amos Yee is being charged, \"is targeted at peddlers and purveyors of pornography\" and that it is \"wholly inapt to describe the mischief (if any) in this case\". The prosecution had argued that Yee's own comments showed his intention to \"corrupt and deprave\", but the defence countered that a person cannot be convicted ipse dixit. They also argued that the image was \"not a pornographic image, designed to arouse\".\n\nIn court documents, Yee explained that his intention in critiquing both Christianity and Lee Kuan Yew was to open discussions on what he saw as \"problems\" with the faith and Singapore. He said that he was aware his critique would lead some people to take offence, but argued that this promoted discussion that \"was healthy for positive change to take place in future.\" Yee also explained that while he \"was aware that critiquing these problems (with the Christian faith) would promote ill-will\", he saw this as \"a natural consequence\", and that \"promoting ill-will is a prerogative for positive change to happen in society, especially if the issue at hand were initially controversial.\" In the hearing, Yee's defence lawyers Ervin Tan sought to challenge the understanding of the word \"obscene\" in relation to the charge against Yee for circulating obscene imagery. Another of his lawyers Alfred Dodwell was allowed to admit one more exhibit that he said would \"vindicate his client\". While the prosecution initially challenged this, the judge allowed its submission, to applause from members of the public in court. Amongst the court documents was the revelation that Yee knew that the contents of his blogs and videos would be offensive, but went ahead with posting them. Yee had said that he was \"aware that the content of the video was offensive and would promote feelings of disharmony and ill-will within the Christian community\".\n\nYee's trial drew international attention. The Wall Street Journal writes that Yee's trial showcases \"Singapore's struggle to adapt its tradition of censorship to the realities of the digital era.\"\n\nThe court found Yee guilty and convicted him of both charges on 12 May 2015. With regards to the obscenity charge, judge Jasvender Kaur said that \"standards of obscenity will change from time to time\", and differ among countries, and that \"it was up to the courts to decide based on community standards.\" Kaur considered the effect that image had on teenagers, and concluded that it met the \"strongest possible disapproval and condemnation\". With regards to the second charge on making remarks intending to hurt the feelings of Christians, Kaur said that Yee's remarks were \"clearly derogatory and offensive to Christians\".\n\nYee's bail was reduced to $10,000, and his parents paid the bail. The prohibition for him to post online was lifted. Yee was required to remove the offensive YouTube video and the blog post in question; it is not an offence, however, for other people to re-post Yee's videos or blog post. Yee complied, but 9 days later, on 21 May Yee made public both the blog post and video again.\n\nYee was greeted by \"around a dozen onlookers who waited to welcome him and give him advice.\" To reporters, Yee said that he \"[did] not know if [he] should celebrate [his] release or mourn [his] sentence.\" Yee was given a red packet containing a $100 note by retired artist Koh Ban Jee, who said \"he wanted to encourage Yee to go back to school and go to university.\" A day before the verdict, dozens showed up for a candlelight vigil at Hong Lim Park to support Yee.\n\nDuring the court hearing, Yee, who faced a fine and up to three years jail, had requested to be jailed instead of going for probation after being sentenced guilty by Kaur. The prosecution requested that Yee be given counseling and probation. The court adjourned sentencing pending a probation report for Yee.\n\nThe verdict attracted international attention. International rights group Human Rights Watch (HRW) criticised the verdict as \"publicly punishing a youthful dissident who dared besmirch the image of the recently passed leader, and intimidating anyone else who might think of doing the same in the future.\" Phil Robertson, HRW's deputy director for Asia, said that \"Singapore's actions to criminalise Yee's statements run contrary to international human rights standards and are a dangerous affront to freedom of expression.\" Phil Robertson, the Bangkok-based deputy director of Human Rights Watch's Asia division, said that \"criminalizing free expression by anyone who dares mock the powers that be is a tried and true practice of the Singapore government, and Amos Yee is the latest victim.\" The Globe and Mail writes that Yee's case highlights why \"support for Asia's atheists is hard to come\".\nAmnesty International criticised the verdict and declared Yee a prisoner of conscience, citing Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that enshrines the principle to freedom of expression.\n\nOn 13 May 2015, a day after being released, Yee took to Facebook alleging that he had been molested by his ex-bailor Law. Law said the allegation was \"false\". Yee invited the media to \"catch\" him at an MRT station, but he did not show up. Yee later revealed that his allegations were part of a ploy to \"manipulate the press to indulge in the thoroughly exhausting experience of waiting in Pasir Panjang fruitlessly for several hours\". Yee also revealed that Law \"didn't really molest\" him, but maintained that Law was \"creepy\" In response to the allegations, Law told The Online Citizen (TOC) that \"he found Yee's clarification to be insincere and that it does not fully absolve him from the allegation of molest\", said that he would \"take legal action\" for defamation if Yee does not apologise publicly and fully retract the allegation.\n\nIn response to the ultimatum, Yee, who described his own actions as \"horrid\", wrote that he was \"extremely remorseful for the turmoil\" that he had caused to Law and his family. Yee also wrote that he was \"currently tendering a long, and detailed public apology to Vincent and his family\". He asked Law to give him \"about 3 days\" to finish preparing it, as he was a \"slow writer\". In response to Yee's apology, Law decided that he would not pursue the matter any further.\n\nAfter Law decided not to pursue the matter, Yee retracted his apology, revealed that he had \"lied\" yet again and \"made fun\" of Law. In a 6000-word expose, Yee detailed how Law \"violated him emotionally\". He also highlighted that \"molest\" also means \"disturb\" and that his accusation of Law would be accurate if one used this definition instead, and hence concluded that he was \"technically molested\" by Law. \nYee stated that \"it was stupid of people to believe that he would actually issue a sincere apology\". He attributes this \"inherent stupidity\" to \"the mindset inherent in that of religion\". He then proceeded to call Law a \"molester\", a \"mentally unsound person\" and a \"hypocrite\". Yee also described his interactions with Law and explained how he plotted to publicly humiliate Law while he was in remand prison. When asked about Yee's latest about-turn, Law replied that he thought \"it's best to leave Amos alone and not write about him.\" He added that he was not considering legal action. Law's son, Francis Micah Law, took to Facebook to refute Yee's claims against his father. In it, he stated that his father always \"painted a positive portrayal of Amos in hopes that he would improve the public opinion of Amos.\"\n\nYee's accusations against Law caused anger among social media users. Vivekanandan of Free Malaysia Today writes that Yee's Facebook post was \"derisive\", \"acerbic\", and \"sarcastic\". It also charged that with his Facebook post, Yee was guilty of \"mocking Christianity again\". Carlton Tan of Asian Correspondent expressed his sadness that Yee had gone down this road, and said that he \"[does] not support [Yee's] contempt towards the fundamental dignity of other persons.\"\n\nOn 27 May 2015, Yee was called back to court for an urgent hearing as he refused to meet with his assigned probation officer. The prosecution called for a report to assess Yee's suitability for reformative training, arguing that a jail term or a fine would have no rehabilitative effect. On 2 June Yee was remanded for three weeks and a report was made to assess whether Yee was suitable to serve reformative training. For this remand period, no bail option was offered. This decision came after Yee rejected the option of probation and instead pleaded for a jail term. The prosecution has argued that Yee's re-uploading of the image and video pertaining to his charges should be taken into account as an indication of his conduct and character.\n\nDuring Yee's remand, new posts emerged on Yee's Facebook page. Amongst them were comparisons of Yee to \"figures of martyrdom such as Gandi and Nelson Mandela, as well as complaints about life in prison. One post lamented the lack of exposure to sunshine, while others criticise the attitudes of police officers, such as towards Yee's opting for vegetarian meals. The posts intrigued the media and public since the Singapore Prison Service has confirmed that all inmates and remandees do not have access to any telecommunication devices within the prison. In response, one of Yee's lawyers, Chong, said that they weren't aware of how this is happening and didn't \"want to speculate.\"\n\nOn 23 June 2015 district judge Kaur ordered that Yee be remanded at the Institute of Mental Health for two weeks in response to a report by Dr Munidasa Winslow who said that Yee may suffer from autism-spectrum disorder. The reformative training suitability report found Yee physically and mentally suitable for reformative training. Kaur reported that she was exploring other sentencing options, such as a mandatory treatment order, which would compel Yee to undergo psychiatric treatment.\n\nAt the Institute for Mental Health, Yee was evaluated by psychiatrist Cai Yi Ming, who said that Yee \"promised not to re-offend as he realised what he did was against the law and could disrupt social harmony\". Contrary to the suspicions that Winslow had, Cai's report concluded that Yee does not suffer from any mental disorder, and would benefit from having a counsellor or mentor guide him in using the Internet. He added that Yee was \"trapped in the Net\" and is \"unable to discern untruths in cyberspace\".\n\nYee's sentence was met with criticism from the United Nations Human Rights Office which called for the immediate release of Yee in line with its commitment under the UN Convention on the Rights of Child. It said that \"while recognizing the Singapore authorities concern with public morality and social harmony, OHCHR is concerned that the criminal sanctions considered in this case seem disproportionate and inappropriate in terms of the international protections for freedom of expression and opinion.\" The group appealed to the Singapore authorities to give special considerations to Yee's juvenile status and ensure that his treatment with the best interests of the child.\n\nYee's sentence was also met with criticism from the Humans Rights Watch. Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director said that \"nothing that Amos Yee said or posted should ever have been considered criminal – much less merit incarceration.\" He went on the say that \"the dismal state of Singapore's respect for free expression can be seen in the decision to impose the criminal justice system on outspoken 16-year-olds\". In response to the mandatory psychiatric treatment that Yee is ordered to undergo, Robertson said that \"The court has provided no adequate justification for Yee's further detention and has ordered forced psychiatric tests.\"\n\nYee's sentence was met with opposition from within Singapore. Singaporean politician Goh Meng Seng said that even though he did not like Amos \"because he's rude in the Singapore context\", he felt that \"he [had] to defend his rights.\" Singaporean academic Cherian George, lawyer Peter Low, a former president of the Law Society of Singapore, as well as leading rights activists, academics, filmmakers and members of the arts community signed a letter saying that they were \"troubled by the State’s harsh reactions and that \"sending Yee to the facility could deter young people in the city-state from expressing their views openly for fear of reprisals. Also, an open letter expressing concerns about the way Yee was treated was signed by 77 individuals, including civil society activist Braema Mathi, playwright Alfan Sa'at and academic Cherian George, saying that Yee's prosecution has created a \"negative impact on his well-being and that of his family\".\n\nMeanwhile, Yee's mother apologised to Yee on her own Facebook profile with a \"heartfelt apology letter\", saying that she was wrong and sorry for telling Yee that he was in \"the safest country\".\n\nOn 5 July 2015, the night before Yee's next hearing was scheduled to be held, Yee was admitted to the Accident and Emergency department at Changi Hospital for low blood glucose levels. According to his mother, Yee had not been eating for several days, was not sleeping well and feeling depressed. Earlier, on 12 June Yee's lawyer reported that Yee had been experiencing suicidal thoughts at the prospect of reformative training. While Yee had been initially \"very courteous and engaged in the process\", his stint at the Institute for Mental Health had been \"a shock to his system\".\n\nOn 6 July Yee was sentenced to four weeks in jail, one week for posting obscene materials and three weeks for wounding the religious feelings of Christian in his video calling Lee Kuan Yew a “horrible person”, with the sentences to be served consecutively. He was addressed directly by the judge Kaur who said that she hopes that Yee would \"rethink long and hard his decision not to continue with formal education,\" before acknowledging that there are few dropout success stories.\n\nYee was released immediately after his sentences were announced as they were backdated to 2 June when he was in remand (Yee was in remand for 50 days). Yee's demeanor when he was freed differed from his previous court appearances. Yee appeared pale and gaunt, wore a frown on his face and kept his head bowed most of the time. In court, Deputy Public Prosecutor Hay Hung Chun said that they saw Yee's actions as \"no less than a significant repudiation of his previous posturing, and it is an important acknowledgment that he has finally accepted the gravity of what he had done and that he was or is willing now to make amends by undoing it.” This was in response to Institute of Mental Health child psychiatrist Cai Yiming's report that Yee had admitted to his guilt and has “realised what he has done was against the law and could disrupt social harmony”. As a result of the change which Hay describes as \"seismic\", Hay announced that the prosecution would be asking for just one day of imprisonment. Upon his release, Yee began to ask for cash donations.\n\nCalling the four-week jail sentence a \"dark day for freedom of expression\" in Singapore, Amnesty International charges that the sentence violates the right to freedom of expression and should be quashed. Rupert Abbott, South East Asia and the Pacific Deputy Director said that “Amos Yee is not a criminal. He should never have been charged, let alone convicted. He has been punished solely for exercising his right to freedom of expression.\" He added that \"if there is any justice Amos Yee would be walking free from court without a conviction against his name.” The Online Citizen calls the conviction \"wrong\" and describes the sentence as \"manifestly excessive\". Writer and gender equality activist Jolene Tan accused the prosecution for \"[focusing] overwhelmingly on Amos’ attitudes rather than any harm that was done by his supposed crimes.\" She questioned the motive of the sentence, asking whether it was \"justice for a crime\", or \"just as a way to quash Amos into docility.” The Association of Women for Action and Research criticised the court decision and urged the state to be mindful of the \"stigmatising effect of such prosecutions in the future\".\n\nYee's sentence led to protests from several activist groups. On 27 June 2015 about sixty people under the banner of the Taiwan Association for Human Rights demonstrated outside the Singapore Trade Office in Taipei. The protesters from more than 10 civil society groups under the banner of the Taiwan Association for Human Rights (TAHR) held placards and chanted \"Free Amos Yee\" for about half an hour.\nOn 30 June university students in Hong Kong held a protest to urge the Singapore government to release Yee. Student activist group Scholarism, which took part in the protest, published a post asserting that the actions taken against Yee \"reflects the unreasonable oppression and the very limited acceptance of dynamic voices in the so-called 'modernised' society of Singapore.\n\nOn 5 July a demonstration was held in Hong Kong, where protestors burnt effigies of Lee Hsien Loong and Lee Kuan Yew, to demand the release of Yee. About 50 people from various civic and political groups gathered with banners and placards near the Singapore Consulate in Admiralty district. They held banners and placards that read \"Dissident is not Demented\" and \"Freedom of Speech should not be infringed\".\n\nAlso on 5 July in Singapore, a rally organised by Community Action Network, a group of individuals describing themselves as \"concerned about freedom of expression in Singapore\", was attended by an estimated 500 people. The rally was held to demand the release of Yee. The organisers of the protest were \"damning\" in their condemnation of the state’s handling of Yee’s case. Jolovan Wham, a social worker and civil activist said that “[the activists] came together to protest what the government is doing to Amos Yee, and to take a stand on freedom of expression,” citing \"an unprecedented crackdown on freedom of expression in Singapore” in the last few years.\n\nYee filed an appeal against the conviction and sentence, ahead of 20 July 2015 deadline for making an appeal. Yee's lawyer, Dodwell, said that \"whether this was a crime or not still remains a question [that they wanted to] determine in the high court\". Yee's mother said that she wanted \"to know for sure that what Amos has done is not criminally wrong\". For the hearing at the High Court, Yee's lawyers want the appeal to be heard by a non-Christian judge.\n\nIn his post on 27 November 2015, Amos addressed Calvin Cheng's comments on killing the children of terrorist members. He wrote, \"Oh yes and **** Islam, and Allah doesn’t exist, but say you see a prick from ISIS who wants to kill or has even killed before, don't think that's a scenario where it's alright to kill him.\" His statement prompted several police reports from the public, and subsequent police investigation in December 2015 for allegedly posting offensive material on his blog.\n\nOn 13 May 2016, it was reported in the Straits Times that Yee was arrested on 11 May for \"allegedly uttering words last November with a deliberate intent to wound religious or racial feelings\" and for \"not showing up at a police station\". He was subsequently bailed.\n\nOn 17 August 2016, Yee stood trial over six charges for deliberate intent to wound religious feelings and two charges for failure to turn up for police interviews. He was not represented by a lawyer. Seven police officers were summoned as prosection's witnesses. Before the trial could proceed further, Yee was granted permission to go for Criminal Case Resolution process.\n\nOn 29 September 2016, Amos Yee was sentenced to 6 weeks' jail and fined $2000 for wounding religious feelings. The presiding judge, Ong Hian Sun, said that Yee had \"deliberately elected to do harm\" in a photograph and two videos he posted online that were said to have \"offensive and insulting words and profane gestures to hurt the feelings of Christians and Muslims\". Ong said that Yee's actions could \"generate social unrest\" and should not be condoned.\n\nYee began serving his jail term on 13 October 2016. He spent 21 days at Tanah Merah Prison. His request for home detention was successful, so he served the remainder of his jail term at home.\n\nOn 16 December 2016, Amos Yee fled to the United States where he was detained at Chicago's O'Hare Airport after announcing his intention to seek political asylum. During the application, he was incarcerated in McHenry County Jail in Illinois. He was subsequently transferred to Dodge County Detention Facility in Wisconsin. Yee was granted asylum in the US on 24 March 2017, after the judge ruled that Yee faced persecution in Singapore for his political opinions; the judge cited the different ways that Cheng and Yee were treated in his decision.\n\nYee was due to serve his national service upon reaching 18 years old in October 2016. By leaving Singapore, Yee breached Singaporean law which mandates compulsory military service for all Singaporean men.\n\nOn 25 April 2017, the U.S. government appealed against the decision to grant Yee asylum, so he continued to be held at the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) center during the appeal process. On his reasons for seeking U.S. asylum, Reuters reported that although Yee was highly critical of the U.S. government abroad, he has said that - \"It is not going to the best country. This is about going to the country that most effectively promotes my political philosophy of anarchical communism and ending private property and wage labor\".\n\nAmos Yee was released from a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in downtown Chicago on 26 September 2017 following an immigration appeals court's decision to uphold his bid for asylum. A Board of Immigration Appeals decision upheld Chicago immigration judge Samuel Cole's March ruling that Yee had a \"well-founded fear\" of being persecuted upon return to Singapore. The judge said the aim of jailing Yee in Singapore at such a young age was to stifle his political speech. With asylum status, Yee will be eligible to apply for a green card in a year.\n\nYee told reporters after his release that he can now criticise the Singaporean government without fear of imprisonment, and that while he planned to make more critical videos on the topic, he might also broaden his work to US politics since he is in the country.\n\nIn November 2017, The Open Campus Initiative, a student club at Harvard College, invited Yee to give a talk and then cancelled it less than 24 hours before the event. According to Yee, his talk was likely cancelled due to older videos he had created in support of removing the age of consent for sex. He had by that point run short of money, and asked for donations from his followers via Facebook, saying that he would rather borrow than take a job he did not like. Shortly after his appeal for donations, he was banned from Facebook for 30 days for violating Facebook's community standards. Twitter suspended his account sometime in 2017. In April 2018, the Toy Industry Association pulled ads from the video streaming platform following a CNN report its ads had been appearing on Yee's channel, which was being used to promote pedophilia. YouTube subsequently pulled ads from Yee's videos and banned him from monetising content. In early May 2018, YouTube terminated Yee's channel for violating community guidelines. In July 2018, Yee's Patreon account had also been shut down.\n\n"}
{"id": "24641880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24641880", "title": "Anneke Grönloh", "text": "Anneke Grönloh\n\nLouise Johanna \"Anneke\" Grönloh (7 June 1942 – 14 September 2018) was an Indonesia-born Dutch singer. She had a successful career starting in 1959 that lasted throughout the 1960s, and scored a hit with \"Brandend Zand\", one of the best-selling Dutch songs of all time.\n\nGrönloh was born in Tondano, North Celebes, Netherlands East Indies (now Indonesia), and spent her early years in the Japanese-occupied Dutch East Indies in a Japanese concentration camp. Her father, an officer in the KNIL, had been interned before her birth.\n\nAfter the war, the family moved to the Netherlands, and Grönloh grew up in Eindhoven. At the \"Gemeentelijk Lyceum\" (Municipal College) she met and played with Peter Koelewijn and his band \"Peter en zijn Rockets\" at parties. In 1959 her career took off after she won a talent show. On 31 August 1964 she married Wim-Jaap van der Laan, a DJ for Dutch radio station Radio Veronica, and in 1965 began singing in the Sleeswijk Revue. Throughout the 1960s she scored hits, especially with \"Brandend Zand\" (English: \"Burning sand\"). At the height of her fame, in 1964, Grönloh took part in the Eurovision Song Contest with the song \"Jij bent mijn leven\" (English: \"You are my life\"), which ended with a joint tenth place with the Belgian entry, and by the end of the 1960s she had begun an international singing career.\n\nBesides popular music, Grönloh also performed the kroncong genre, singing songs such as \"Bengawan Solo\", \"Boeroeng Kakatua\", and \"Nina Bobo\", and also sings jazz, which she claims is her favorite genre.\n\nIn 2000, Grönloh was named \"Singer of the Century\" because of the record-breaking sales of \"Brandend Zand\". In the same year, she was also a participant on the television program Big Brother VIPS. In 2006 she released \"Anneke and Friends\", a DVD of her theater tours. Later that year she was part of the theater tour \"Purple 100\", replacing Corry Brokken who could not perform due to illness.\n\nGrönloh had retired due to health problems; she played her last show on 26 August 2017.\n\nGrönloh died on 14 September 2018, at the age of 76. Reports indicate that she will be laid to rest in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "45578290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45578290", "title": "Barney and Betty Hill", "text": "Barney and Betty Hill\n\nBarney and Betty Hill were an American couple who claimed they were abducted by extraterrestrials in a rural portion of the state of New Hampshire from September 19 to September 20, 1961. It was the first widely publicized report of an alien abduction in the United States.\n\nThe incident came to be called the \"Hill Abduction\" and the \"Zeta Reticuli Incident\" because the couple stated they had been kidnapped by aliens who claimed to be from the Zeta Reticuli system. Their story was adapted into the best-selling 1966 book \"The Interrupted Journey\" and the 1975 television movie \"The UFO Incident\". In September 2016, plans were announced to make a film based on the events, with an unknown release date.\n\nMost of Betty Hill's notes, tapes, and other items have been placed in the permanent collection at the University of New Hampshire, her alma mater. In July 2011, the state Division of Historical Resources marked the site of the alleged craft's first approach with a historical marker.\n\nThe Hills lived in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Barney (1922–1969) was employed by the United States Postal Service, while Betty (\"née\" Eunice Barrett) (1919–2004) was a social worker. Active in the local Unitarian congregation, the Hills were also members of the NAACP and community leaders, and Barney sat on a local board of the United States Commission on Civil Rights. They were an interracial couple at a time when it was particularly uncommon in the United States; Barney was African American and Betty was white.\n\nAccording to a variety of reports given by the Hills, the alleged UFO sighting happened on September 19, 1961, around 10:30 p.m. The Hills were driving back to Portsmouth from a vacation in Niagara Falls and Montreal. Just south of Lancaster, New Hampshire, Betty claimed to have observed a bright point of light in the sky that moved from below the moon and the planet Jupiter, upward to the west of the moon. While Barney navigated U.S. Route 3, Betty reasoned that she was observing a falling star, only it moved upward. Since it moved erratically and grew bigger and brighter, Betty urged Barney to stop the car for a closer look, as well as to walk their dog, Delsey. Barney stopped at a scenic picnic area just south of Twin Mountain.\n\nBetty, looking through binoculars, observed an \"odd-shaped\" craft flashing multi-colored lights travel across the face of the Moon. Because her sister had several years earlier said she saw a flying saucer, Betty thought it might be what she was observing. Through binoculars, Barney observed what he reasoned was a commercial airliner traveling toward Vermont on its way to Montreal. However, he soon changed his mind, because without looking as if it had turned, the craft rapidly descended in his direction. This observation caused Barney to realize, \"this object that was a plane was \"not\" a plane.\" He quickly returned to the car and drove toward Franconia Notch, a narrow, mountainous stretch of the road.\n\nThe Hills claimed that they continued driving on the isolated road, moving very slowly through Franconia Notch in order to observe the object as it came even closer. At one point, the object passed above a restaurant and signal tower on top of Cannon Mountain and came out near the Old Man of the Mountain. Betty testified that it was at least one and a half times the length of the granite cliff profile, which was long, and that it seemed to be rotating. The couple watched as the silent, illuminated craft moved erratically and bounced back and forth in the night sky.\n\nApproximately one mile south of Indian Head, they said, the object rapidly descended toward their vehicle, causing Barney to stop in the middle of the highway. The huge, silent craft hovered approximately above the Hills' 1957 Chevrolet Bel Air and filled the entire field of view in the windshield. It reminded Barney of a huge pancake. Carrying his pistol in his pocket, he stepped away from the vehicle and moved closer to the object. Using the binoculars, Barney claimed to have seen about 8 to 11 humanoid figures, who were peering out of the craft's windows, seeming to look at him. In unison, all but one figure moved to what appeared to be a panel on the rear wall of the hallway that encircled the front portion of the craft. The one remaining figure continued to look at Barney and communicated a message telling him to \"stay where you are and keep looking.\" Barney had a recollection of observing the humanoid forms wearing glossy black uniforms and black caps. Red lights on what appeared to be bat-wing fins began to telescope out of the sides of the craft, and a long structure descended from the bottom of the craft. The silent craft approached to what Barney estimated was within overhead and away from him. On October 21, 1961, Barney reported to National Investigations Committee On Aerial Phenomena (NICAP) investigator Walter Webb that the \"beings were somehow not human\".\n\nBarney \"tore\" the binoculars away from his eyes and ran back to his car. In a near hysterical state, he told Betty, \"They're going to capture us!\" He saw the object again shift its location to directly above the vehicle. He drove away at high speed, telling Betty to look for the object. She rolled down the window and looked up. Almost immediately, the Hills heard a rhythmic series of beeping or buzzing sounds, which they said seemed to bounce off the trunk of their vehicle. The car vibrated and a tingling sensation passed through the Hills' bodies. The Hills said that then they experienced the onset of an altered state of consciousness that left their minds dulled. A second series of beeping or buzzing sounds returned the couple to full consciousness. They found that they had traveled nearly south, but had only vague, spotty memories of this section of road. They recalled making a sudden, unplanned turn, encountering a roadblock, and observing a fiery orb in the road.\n\nArriving home at about dawn, the Hills assert that they had some odd sensations and impulses they could not readily explain: Betty insisted their luggage be kept near the back door rather than in the main part of the house. Their watches would never run again. Barney said that the leather strap for the binoculars was torn, though he could not recall it tearing. The toes of his best dress shoes were scraped. Barney says he was compelled to examine his genitals in the bathroom, though he found nothing unusual. They took long showers to remove possible contamination and each drew a picture of what they had observed.\n\nPerplexed, the Hills say they tried to reconstruct the chronology of events as they witnessed the UFO and drove home. But immediately after they heard the buzzing sounds, their memories became incomplete and fragmented. After sleeping for a few hours, Betty awoke and placed the shoes and clothing she had worn during the drive into her closet, observing that the dress was torn at the hem, zipper and lining. Later, when she retrieved the items from her closet, she noted a pinkish powder on her dress. She hung the dress on her clothesline and the pink powder blew away. But the dress was irreparably damaged. She threw it away, but then changed her mind, retrieving the dress and hanging it in her closet. Over the years, five laboratories have conducted chemical and forensic analyses on the dress.\n\nThere were shiny, concentric circles on their car's trunk that had not been there the previous day. Betty and Barney experimented with a compass, noting that when they moved it close to the spots, the needle would whirl rapidly. But when they moved it a few inches away from the shiny spots, it would drop down.\n\nOn September 21, Betty telephoned Pease Air Force Base to report their UFO encounter, though for fear of being labeled eccentric, she withheld some of the details. On September 22, Major Paul W. Henderson telephoned the Hills for a more detailed interview. Henderson's report, dated September 26, determined that the Hills had probably misidentified the planet Jupiter. (This was later changed to \"optical condition\", \"inversion\" and \"insufficient data\".) (Report 100-1-61, Air Intelligence Information Record) His report was forwarded to Project Blue Book, the U.S. Air Force's UFO research project.\n\nWithin days of the encounter, Betty borrowed a UFO book from a local library. It had been written by retired Marine Corps Major Donald E. Keyhoe, who was also the head of NICAP, a civilian UFO research group. On September 26, Betty wrote to Keyhoe. She related the full story, including the details about the humanoid figures that Barney had observed through binoculars. Betty wrote that she and Barney were considering hypnosis to help recall what had happened. Her letter was eventually passed on to Walter N. Webb, a Boston astronomer and NICAP member.\n\nWebb met with the Hills on October 21, 1961. In a six-hour interview, the Hills related all they could remember of the UFO encounter. Barney asserted that he had developed a sort of \"mental block\" and that he suspected there were some portions of the event that he did not wish to remember. He described in detail all that he could remember about the craft and the appearance of the \"somehow not human\" figures aboard the craft. Webb stated that \"they were telling the truth and the incident probably occurred exactly as reported except for some minor uncertainties and technicalities that must be tolerated in any such observations where human judgment is involved (e.g., exact time and length of visibility, apparent sizes of object and occupants, distance and height of object, etc.).\"\n\nTen days after the alleged UFO encounter, Betty began having a series of vivid dreams. They continued for five successive nights. Never in her memory had she recalled dreams in such detail and intensity. But they stopped abruptly after five nights and never returned again. They occupied her thoughts during the day. When she finally did mention them to Barney, he was sympathetic, but not too concerned, and the matter was dropped. Betty did not mention them to Barney again.\n\nIn November 1961, Betty began writing down the details of her dreams. In one dream, she and Barney encountered a roadblock and men who surrounded their car. She lost consciousness, but struggled to regain it. She then realized that she was being forced by two small men to walk in a forest in the nighttime, and of seeing Barney walking behind her, though when she called to him, he seemed to be in a trance or sleepwalking. The men stood about five feet to five feet four inches tall, and wore matching blue uniforms, with caps similar to those worn by military cadets. They appeared nearly human, with black hair, dark eyes, prominent noses and bluish lips. Their skin was a greyish colour.\n\nIn the dreams, Betty, Barney, and the men walked up a ramp into a disc-shaped craft of metallic appearance. Once inside, Barney and Betty were separated. She protested, and was told by a man she called \"the leader\" that if she and Barney were examined together, it would take much longer to conduct the exams. She and Barney were then taken to separate rooms.\n\nBetty then dreamt that a new man, similar to the others, entered to conduct her exam with the leader. Betty called this new man \"the examiner\" and said he had a pleasant, calm manner. Though the leader and the examiner spoke to her in English, the examiner's command of the language seemed imperfect and she had difficulty understanding him.\n\nThe examiner told Betty that he would conduct a few tests to note the differences between humans and the craft's occupants. He seated her on a chair, and a bright light was shone on her. The man cut off a lock of Betty's hair. He examined her eyes, ears, mouth, teeth, throat and hands. He saved trimmings from her fingernails. After examining her legs and feet, the man then used a dull knife, similar to a letter opener, to scrape some of her skin onto what resembled cellophane. He then tested her nervous system and he thrust the needle into her navel, which caused Betty agonizing pain, whereupon the leader waved his hand in front of her eyes and the pain vanished.\n\nThe examiner left the room and Betty engaged in conversation with the \"leader\". She picked up a book with rows of strange symbols that the \"leader\" said she could take home with her. She also asked from where he came, and he pulled down an instructional map dotted with stars.\n\nIn Betty's dream account, the men began escorting the Hills from the ship when a disagreement broke out. The leader then informed Betty that she couldn't keep the book, stating that they had decided that the other men did not want her to even remember the encounter. Betty insisted that no matter what they did to her memory, she would one day recall the events.\n\nShe and Barney were taken to their car, where the leader suggested that they wait to watch the craft's departure. They did so, then resumed their drive.\n\nOn November 25, 1961, the Hills were again interviewed at length by NICAP members, this time C. D. Jackson and Robert E. Hohmann.\n\nAlthough the Hills had noted that they had arrived home later than anticipated, the drive should have taken about four hours (178 miles). They claimed not to have realized that they arrived home seven hours after their departure from Colebrook. When Hohman and Jackson noted this discrepancy to the Hills, the couple had no explanation (a phenomenon ufologists call \"missing time\"). The Hills claimed to recall almost nothing of the 35 miles between Lincoln/Indian Head and Ashland. Both claimed to recall an image of a fiery orb sitting on the ground. Betty and Barney reasoned that it must have been the moon, but Hohmann and Jackson informed them that the moon had set earlier in the evening.\n\nThe subject of hypnosis came up, and it was decided that it should be carried out in order to elicit previously irretrievable memories. Barney was apprehensive about hypnosis, but thought it might help Betty put to rest what Barney described as \"the 'nonsense' about her dreams.\"\n\nBy February 1962, the Hills were making frequent weekend drives to the White Mountains, hoping that revisiting the site might spark more memories. They were unsuccessful in trying to locate the site where they observed a fiery orb sitting in the road. However, they were able to eliminate several possible routes. (They found what they claimed was the \"capture\" site on Labor Day weekend in 1965.)\n\nOn November 23, 1962, the Hills attended a meeting at the parsonage of their church where the invited guest speaker was Captain Ben H. Swett of the United States Air Force, who had recently published a book of his poetry. After he read selections of his poetry, the pastor asked him to discuss his personal interest in hypnosis. After the meeting broke up, the Hills approached Captain Swett privately and told him what they could remember of their strange encounter. He was particularly interested in the \"missing time\" of the Hills' account. The Hills asked Swett if he would hypnotize them to recover their memories, but Swett said he was not qualified to do that and cautioned them against going to an amateur hypnotist, such as himself.\n\nOn March 3, 1963, the Hills first publicly discussed the UFO encounter with a group at their church.\n\nOn September 7, 1963, Captain Swett gave a formal lecture on hypnosis to a meeting at the Unitarian Church. After the lecture, the Hills told him that Barney was going to a psychiatrist, a Mr. Stephens, whom he liked and trusted. Captain Swett suggested that Barney ask Stephens about the use of hypnosis in his case.\n\nWhen Barney next met with Stephens, he asked about hypnosis. Stephens referred the Hills to Benjamin Simon of Boston.\n\nOn November 3, 1963, the Hills spoke before an amateur UFO study group, the Two State UFO Study Group, in Quincy Center, Massachusetts.\n\nThe Hills first met Simon on December 14, 1963. Early in their discussions, Simon determined that the UFO encounter was causing Barney far more worry and anxiety than he was willing to admit. Though Simon dismissed the popular extraterrestrial hypothesis as impossible, it seemed obvious to him that the Hills genuinely thought they had witnessed a UFO with human-like occupants. Simon hoped to uncover more about the experience through hypnosis.\n\nSimon began hypnotizing the Hills on January 4, 1964. He hypnotized Betty and Barney several times each, and the sessions lasted until June 6, 1964. Simon conducted the sessions on Barney and Betty separately, so they could not overhear one another's recollections. At the end of each session he reinstated amnesia.\n\nSimon hypnotized Barney first. His recall of witnessing non-human figures was quite emotional, punctuated with expressions of fear, emotional outbursts and incredulity. Barney said that, due to his fear, he kept his eyes closed for much of the abduction and physical examination. Based on these early responses, Simon told Barney that he would not remember the hypnosis sessions until he was certain he could remember them without being further traumatized.\n\nUnder hypnosis (as was consistent with his conscious recall), Barney reported that the binocular strap had broken when he ran from the UFO back to his car. He recalled driving the car away from the UFO, but that afterwards he felt irresistibly compelled to pull off the road and drive into the woods. He eventually sighted six men standing in the dirt road. The car stalled and three of the men approached the car. They told Barney to not fear them. He was still anxious, however, and he reported that the leader told Barney to close his eyes. While hypnotized, Barney said, \"I felt like the eyes had pushed into my eyes.\"\n\nBarney described the beings as generally similar to Betty's hypnotic (not dream) recollection. The beings often stared into his eyes, said Barney, with a terrifying, mesmerizing effect. Under hypnosis, Barney said things like, \"Oh, those eyes. They're there in my brain\" (from his first hypnosis session) and \"I was told to close my eyes because I saw two eyes coming close to mine, and I felt like the eyes had pushed into my eyes\" (from his second hypnosis session) and \"All I see are these eyes... I'm not even afraid that they're not connected to a body. They're just there. They're just up close to me, pressing against my eyes.\"\n\nBarney related that he and Betty were taken onto the disc-shaped craft, where they were separated. He was escorted to a room by three of the men and told to lie on a small rectangular exam table. Unlike Betty, Barney's narrative of the exam was less detailed, as he continued to keep his eyes closed for most of the exam. A cup-like device was placed over his genitals. He did not experience an orgasm, though Barney thought that a sperm sample had been taken. The men scraped his skin and peered in his ears and mouth. A thin tube or cylinder was inserted into his anus and quickly removed. Someone felt his spine and seemed to be counting his vertebrae.\n\nBetty reported a conversation with the \"leader\" that she understood in English. Barney said that he heard them speaking in a mumbling language he did not understand, yet he also understood them in English. Betty also mentioned this detail. The few times they communicated with him, Barney said it seemed to be \"thought transference\"; at that time, he was unfamiliar with the word \"telepathy\". Both Betty and Barney stated that they hadn't observed the beings' mouths moving when they communicated in English with them.\n\nHe recalled being escorted from the ship and taken to his car. In a daze, he watched the ship leave. Barney remembered a light appearing on the road, and he said, \"Oh no, not again.\" He recalled Betty's speculation that the light might have been the moon, though the moon had in fact set several hours earlier. He also stated that he attempted to produce the code-like buzzing sounds which seemed to strike the car's trunk a second time by driving from side to side and stopping and starting the vehicle. His attempt was unsuccessful.\n\nUnder hypnosis, Betty's account was similar to the events of her five dreams about the UFO abduction, but there were also notable differences, mainly pertaining to her capture and release. The technology on the craft was different. The short men had a significantly different physical appearance from that of her dreams. The sequential order of the abduction event was also different from Betty's dream account. Barney's and Betty's memories in hypnotic regression were consistent with one another but contradicted some of the information in Betty's dreams.\n\nBetty exhibited considerable emotional distress during her capture and examination. Simon ended one session early because tears were flowing down her cheeks and she appeared distressed.\n\nSimon gave Betty the post-hypnotic suggestion that she could sketch a copy of the \"star map\" that she later described as a three-dimensional projection similar to a hologram. Eventually, she did what Simon suggested. Although she said the map had many stars, she drew only those that stood out in her memory. Her map consisted of twelve prominent stars connected by lines and three lesser ones that formed a distinctive triangle (see below). She said she was told the stars connected by solid lines formed \"trade routes\", whereas dashed lines were to less-traveled stars.\n\nAfter the hypnosis sessions, Simon speculated that Barney's recollection of the UFO encounter was possibly a fantasy inspired by Betty's dreams. Simon thought it was the most reasonable and consistent explanation. Barney rejected this idea, noting that while their memories were consistent in some regards, there were also portions of both their narratives that were unique to each. Barney was now ready to accept that they had been abducted by the occupants of a UFO, though he never embraced it as fully as Betty did.\n\nThough the Hills and Simon disagreed about the nature of the case, they all concurred that the hypnosis sessions were effective: the Hills were no longer tormented by anxiety about their experience.\n\nAfterwards, Simon wrote an article about the Hills for the journal \"Psychiatric Opinion\", explaining his conclusions that the case was a singular psychological aberration.\n\nThe Hills went back to their regular lives. They were willing to discuss the alleged UFO encounter with friends, family and the occasional UFO researcher, but the Hills apparently made no effort to seek publicity.\n\nOn October 25, 1965, a front page story in the \"Boston Traveller\" asked \"UFO Chiller: Did THEY Seize Couple?\" Reporter John H. Luttrell of the \"Traveler\" had allegedly been given an audio tape recording of the lecture the Hills had made in Quincy Center in late 1963. Luttrell learned that the Hills had undergone hypnosis with Simon; he also obtained notes from confidential interviews the Hills had given to UFO investigators. On October 26, United Press International (UPI) picked up Luttrell's story, and the Hills earned international attention.\n\nIn 1966, writer John G. Fuller secured the cooperation of the Hills and Simon and wrote the book \"The Interrupted Journey\" (see below) about the case. The book included a copy of Betty's sketch of the \"star map\". The book was a quick success, and went through several printings.\n\nLater in life, Betty claimed to have seen UFOs a number of times after the initial abduction, and she \"became a celebrity in the UFO community.\"\n\nBarney died of a cerebral hemorrhage on February 25, 1969, at age 46; Betty Hill died of cancer on October 17, 2004, at age 85, never having remarried.\n\nIn 1968, Marjorie Fish of Oak Harbor, Ohio, read Fuller's \"Interrupted Journey\". She was an elementary school teacher and amateur astronomer. Intrigued by the \"star map\", Fish wondered if it might be \"deciphered\" to determine which star system the UFO came from. Assuming that one of the fifteen stars on the map must represent the Earth's Sun, Fish constructed a three-dimensional model of nearby Sun-like stars using thread and beads, basing stellar distances on those published in the 1969 Gliese Star Catalogue. Studying thousands of vantage points over several years, the only one that seemed to match the Hill map was from the viewpoint of the double star system of Zeta Reticuli.\n\nFish sent her analysis to Webb. Agreeing with her conclusions, Webb sent the map to Terence Dickinson, editor of the popular magazine \"Astronomy\". Dickinson did not endorse Fish and Webb's conclusions, but for the first time in the journal's history, \"Astronomy\" invited comments and debate on a UFO report, starting with an opening article in the December 1974 issue. For about a year afterward, the opinions page of \"Astronomy\" carried arguments for and against Fish's star map. Notable was an argument made by Carl Sagan and Steven Soter, arguing that the seeming \"star map\" was little more than a random alignment of chance points. In an episode of in 1980, Sagan demonstrated that without the lines drawn in the maps, the Hill map bore no resemblance to the real-life map. In contrast, those more favorable to the map, such as David Saunders, a statistician who had been on the Condon UFO study, argued that unusual alignment of key Sun-like stars in a plane centered around Zeta Reticuli (first described by Fish) was statistically improbable to have happened by chance from a random group of stars in our immediate neighborhood.\n\nThe 1966 publication of \"Interrupted Journey\", by John G. Fuller, details much of the Hills' claims. Excerpts of the book were published in \"Look\" magazine, and \"Interrupted Journey\" went on to sell many copies and greatly publicize the Hills' account. Betty's niece Kathleen Marden explored Fuller's themes along with scientist Stanton T. Friedman in her book \"Captured! The Betty and Barney Hill UFO Experience\". Marden knew Betty well and had spoken with her at great length about the encounter. She also examined all of the historical records and scientific reports pertaining to the case and transcribed the Hills' hypnosis sessions with Benjamin Simon for her detailed comparative analysis.\n\nPsychiatrists later suggested that the supposed abduction was a hallucination brought on by the stress of being an interracial couple in early 1960s United States. Betty discounted this suggestion, noting her relationship with Barney was happy, and their interracial marriage caused no notable problems with their friends or family. As noted in \"The Interrupted Journey\", Simon thought that the Hills' marital status had nothing to do with the UFO encounter.\n\nSkeptic blogger Brian Dunning noted that the hypnosis sessions occurred over two years after the reported abductions, which afforded the couple plenty of time to discuss their encounter. Dunning concluded that the Hills' \"inventive tale from the mind of a lifelong UFO fanatic ... is unsupported by any useful evidence, and is perfectly consistent with the purely natural explanation.\" He added that a timeline analysis of the two Air Force radar sightings from that night in the Project Blue Book record shows that neither correlated with the Hills' story. The Air Force concluded that both targets were probably weather balloons.\n\nIn his 1990 article \"Entirely Unpredisposed\", Martin Kottmeyer suggested that Barney's memories revealed under hypnosis might have been influenced by an episode of the science fiction television show \"The Outer Limits\", titled \"The Bellero Shield\", which was broadcast about two weeks before Barney's first hypnotic session. The episode featured an extraterrestrial with large eyes who says, \"In all the universes, in all the unities beyond the universes, all who have eyes have eyes that speak.\" The report from the regression featured a scenario that was in some respects similar to the television show. In part, Kottmeyer wrote:\n\nWraparound eyes are an extreme rarity in science fiction films. I know of only one instance. They appeared on the alien of an episode of an old TV series \"The Outer Limits\" entitled \"The Bellero Shield\". A person familiar with Barney's sketch in \"The Interrupted Journey\" and the sketch done in collaboration with the artist David Baker will find a \"frisson\" of \"déjà vu\" creeping up his spine when seeing this episode. The resemblance is much abetted by an absence of ears, hair, and nose on both aliens. Could it be by chance? Consider this: Barney first described and drew the wraparound eyes during the hypnosis session dated 22 February 1964. \"The Bellero Shield\" was first broadcast on 10 February 1964. Only twelve days separate the two instances. If the identification is admitted, the commonness of wraparound eyes in the abduction literature falls to cultural forces.\n\nWhen a different researcher asked Betty about \"The Outer Limits\", she insisted she had \"never heard of it\". Kottmeyer also pointed out that some motifs in the Hills' account were present in the 1953 film, \"Invaders from Mars\". A careful analysis of Barney's description of the non-human entities that he observed reveals significant similarities between the \"Bifrost Man\" and Barney's descriptive details. One must also take into account Barney's conscious, continuous recall of the entities he observed on the hovering craft. They were dressed in black, shiny uniforms and were \"somehow not human\".\n\nJim Macdonald, a resident of the area in which the Hills claimed to have been abducted, has produced a detailed analysis of their journey which concludes that the episode was provoked by their misperceiving an aircraft warning beacon on Cannon Mountain as a UFO. Macdonald notes that from the road the Hills took, the beacon appears and disappears at exactly the same time the Hills describe the UFO as appearing and disappearing. The remainder of the experience is ascribed to stress, sleep deprivation, and false memories \"recovered\" under hypnosis. UFO expert Robert Sheaffer writes after reading Macdonald's recreation that the Hills are the \"poster children\" for not driving when sleep deprived. Macdonald's article focuses primarily on the Hills' observations of the light in the sky and the timing of the journey, discounting the Hills' accounts of close encounters south of Cannon Mountain as recovered memories.\n\n\"Skeptical Inquirer\" columnist Robert Shaeffer wrote the following:\nI was present at the National UFO Conference in New York City in 1980, at which Betty presented some of the UFO photos she had taken. She showed what must have been well over two hundred slides, mostly of blips, blurs, and blobs against a dark background. These were supposed to be UFOs coming in close, chasing her car, landing, etc... After her talk had exceeded about twice its allotted time, Betty was literally jeered off the stage by what had been at first a very sympathetic audience. This incident, witnessed by many of UFOlogy's leaders and top activists, removed any lingering doubts about Betty's credibility—she had none. In 1995, Betty Hill wrote a self-published book, \"A Common Sense Approach to UFOs\". It is filled with obviously delusional stories, such as seeing entire squadrons of UFOs in flight and a truck levitating above the freeway.\n\nSheaffer later wrote that as late as 1977, Betty Hill would go on UFO vigils at least three times a week. During one evening she was joined by UFO enthusiast John Oswald. When asked about Betty's continuing UFO observations, Oswald stated, \"She is not really seeing UFOs, but she is calling them that.\" On the night they went out together, \"Mrs. Hill was unable to distinguish between a landed UFO and a streetlight\". In a later interview, Sheaffer recounts that Betty Hill writes \"UFOs are a \"new\" science ... and \"our\" science cannot explain them\".\n\nRobert Sheaffer released 48 pages of archived documents relating to Betty and Barney Hill, Benjamin Simon and Philip J. Klass on the Internet on December 23, 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1963144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1963144", "title": "Celestron", "text": "Celestron\n\nCelestron is a company based in Torrance, California, United States, that manufactures telescopes and distributes telescopes, binoculars, spotting scopes, microscopes, and accessories manufactured by its parent company, the Synta Technology Corporation of Taiwan.\n\nThe predecessor of Celestron was Valor Electronics, an electronics and military components firm founded in 1955 by Tom Johnson. Johnson became involved with telescopes when he built a 6\" reflecting telescope for his two sons. In 1960, Johnson established the \"Astro-Optical\" division of Valor, which would later become Celestron.\n\nBy 1964, Johnson had founded \"Celestron Pacific\" as a division of Valor Electronics offering Schmidt-Cassegrain telescopes from 4\" to 22\". In 1970 Celestron introduced its \"C8\" 8\" diameter 2032 mm focal length, ƒ10 telescope, the first of a new line of telescopes built using methods developed by Celestron to produce Schmidt-Cassegrains at a high volume and low cost. These models made significant inroads into the amateur astronomical and educational communities.\n\nJohnson, the founder of the company, sold Celestron in 1980. Celestron was acquired by Tasco in 1997 and almost went out of business when Tasco folded in 2001.\n\nIn early 2002 Celestron's rival, Meade Instruments, attempted a takeover but a bankruptcy court allowed the sale of the company back to its original owners. The company had been U.S. owned until April 2005 when it was acquired by SW Technology Corporation, a Delaware company and affiliate of Synta Technology Corporation of Taiwan. Synta is a manufacturer of astronomy equipment and related components and at that time had been a supplier for Celestron for over 15 years.\n\nOn March 13, 2012, Tom Johnson died at the age of 89.\n\nCelestron was the first large scale commercial manufacturer of the Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope, introducing its \"C8\" 8\" diameter 2032 mm focal length, ƒ10 telescope in 1970. The primary innovation Celestron/Tom Johnson came up with was a way to produce Schmidt corrector plates using a vacuum to pull the glass blanks into a pre-shaped curve mold called a \"master block\" during the polishing process. This allowed for the inexpensive mass production of corrector plates of uniform shape. The telescope line had a trademark matte orange tube (changed to glossy black in 1980, and back to semi-gloss orange in 2006), and double-fork equatorial mount, and became a popular large aperture, compact design.\n\nOther telescopes product lines include the CGE, CGEM, CPC, NexStar, Omni, Onyx, AstroMaster, Ambassador, TravelScope, and PowerSeeker product lines. These range from large computerized reflectors with GPS to decorative/casual viewing telescopes with brass tube refractors on wood mounts.\n\nCelestron products (as of 2010) include:\n\nCelestron telescopes offer the option to use computerized location of astronomical objects as well as mounts that will aim themselves at any given object, a technology known as GoTo. Most of the computerized models can be connected to an external computer via an RS-232 cable, allowing them to be controlled by a third-party astronomy program or connected to a GPS receiver. GPS receivers are useful for programming the telescope with its precise location and time, which aids the alignment process required for GoTo.\n\nSome motorized telescopes sold during the mid 80s to early 90s, including the Celestron Compustar® which used a form of GoTo technology, were not programmed to allow for dates after 2000; making some Celestron products susceptible to the Y2K bug. However, a third party chip to update the computer is available for some products.\n\nSince their founding in 1972, Meade Instruments has been one of Celestron's chief rivals. Design, sizing, introduction, and pricing of each company's products lines and models have been in response to their competition with each other. There has been litigation over infringement of patents between the two companies, one instance regarding GoTo technology. In September 2013, Sunny Optics Inc, a unit of the Chinese firm Ningbo Sunny Electronic Co Ltd, completed the acquisition of the entire share capital of Meade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "344968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344968", "title": "Charles Bradlaugh", "text": "Charles Bradlaugh\n\nCharles Bradlaugh (; 26 September 1833 – 30 January 1891) was an English political activist and atheist. He founded the National Secular Society in 1866.\n\nIn 1880, Bradlaugh was elected as the Liberal MP for Northampton. His attempt to affirm as an atheist ultimately led to his temporary imprisonment, fines for voting in the Commons illegally, and a number of by-elections at which Bradlaugh regained his seat on each occasion. He was finally allowed to take an oath in 1886. Eventually, a parliamentary bill which he proposed became law in 1888 which allowed members of both Houses of Parliament to affirm, if they so wished, when being sworn in. The new law resolved the issue for witnesses in civil and criminal court cases.\n\nBorn in Hoxton (an area in the East End of London), Bradlaugh was the son of a solicitor's clerk. He left school at the age of eleven and then worked as an office errand-boy and later as a clerk to a coal merchant. After a brief spell as a Sunday school teacher, he became disturbed by discrepancies between the Thirty-nine Articles of the Anglican Church and the Bible. When he expressed his concerns, the local vicar, John Graham Packer, accused him of atheism and suspended him from teaching. He was thrown out of the family home and was taken in by Eliza Sharples Carlile, the widow of Richard Carlile, who had been imprisoned for printing Thomas Paine's \"The Age of Reason\". Soon Bradlaugh was introduced to George Holyoake, who organised Bradlaugh's first public lecture as an atheist.\n\nAt the age of 17, he published his first pamphlet, \"A Few Words on the Christian Creed\". However, refusing financial support from fellow freethinkers, he enlisted as a soldier with the Seventh Dragoon Guards hoping to serve in India and make his fortune. Instead he was stationed in Dublin. In 1853, he was left a legacy by a great-aunt and used it to purchase his discharge from the army.\n\nBradlaugh returned to London in 1853 and took a post as a solicitor's clerk. By this time he was a convinced freethinker and in his free time he became a pamphleteer and writer about \"secularist\" ideas, adopting the pseudonym \"Iconoclast\" to protect his employer's reputation. He gradually attained prominence in a number of liberal or radical political groups or societies, including the Reform League, Land Law Reformers, and Secularists.\n\nHe was President of the London Secular Society from 1858. In 1860 he became editor of the secularist newspaper, the \"National Reformer\", and in 1866 co-founded the National Secular Society, in which Annie Besant became his close associate. In 1868, the \"Reformer\" was prosecuted by the British Government for blasphemy and sedition. Bradlaugh was eventually acquitted on all charges, but fierce controversy continued both in the courts and in the press.\n\nA decade later (1876), Bradlaugh and Besant decided to republish the American Charles Knowlton's pamphlet advocating birth control, \"The Fruits of Philosophy, or the Private Companion of Young Married People\", whose previous British publisher had already been successfully prosecuted for obscenity. The two activists were both tried in 1877, and Charles Darwin refused to give evidence in their defence, pleading ill-health, but at the time writing to Bradlaugh that his testimony would have been of little use to them because he opposed birth control. They were sentenced to heavy fines and six months' imprisonment, but their conviction was overturned by the Court of Appeal on the basis that the prosecution had not set out the precise words which were alleged to be obscene in the indictment. The Malthusian League was founded as a result of the trial to promote birth control. He was a member of a Masonic lodge in Bolton, although he was later to resign due to the nomination of the Prince of Wales as Grand Master.\n\nOn 6 March 1881 he spoke at the opening of Leicester Secular Society's new Secular Hall in Humberstone Gate, Leicester. The other speakers were George Jacob Holyoake, Annie Besant and Harriet Law.\n\nBradlaugh was an advocate of trade unionism, republicanism, and universal suffrage, and he opposed socialism. His anti-socialism was divisive, and many secularists who became socialists left the secularist movement because of its identification with Bradlaugh's liberal individualism. He was a supporter of Irish Home Rule, and backed France during the Franco-Prussian War. He took a strong interest in India.\n\nIn 1880 Bradlaugh was elected Member of Parliament for Northampton. To take his seat and become an active Parliamentarian, he needed to signify his allegiance to the Crown and on 3 May Bradlaugh came to the Table of the House of Commons, bearing a letter to the Speaker \"begging respectfully to claim to be allowed to affirm\" instead of taking the religious Oath of Allegiance, citing the Evidence Amendment Acts of 1869 and 1870. Speaker Brand declared that he had \"grave doubts\" and asked the House for its judgment. Lord Frederick Cavendish, for the Government, moved that a Select Committee be set up to decide whether persons entitled to make a solemn affirmation in court were also allowed to affirm instead of taking the Parliamentary oath.\n\nThis Select Committee held only one brief meeting on 12 May 1880. The Attorney General, Sir Henry James, moved that anyone entitled to affirm to give evidence in court was also entitled to affirm instead of taking the Oath in Parliament. Sir John Holker, Conservative MP for Preston, moved an amendment to reverse this finding, and the committee split down the middle with eight members (seven Conservatives and Charles Henry Hopwood, Liberal MP for Stockport) supporting the amendment and eight (all Liberals) opposing it; on the casting vote of the chairman Spencer Horatio Walpole the amendment was carried. Bradlaugh was not surprised that the Committee had gone against him, and notified the Speaker that he would attend to take the Oath on 21 May.\n\nTo explain his actions, Bradlaugh wrote an open letter to \"The Times\" which was published on the morning of 21 May. He said it would have been hypocritical to voluntarily take the oath \"including words of idle and meaningless character\" without protest when another form of words was available, but now that the Select Committee had ruled he must, he would do so and \"regard myself as bound not by the letter of its words, but by the spirit which the affirmation would have conveyed had I been permitted to use it.\"\n\nBradlaugh's letter was regarded as a direct provocation by his opponents, and when he came to the table, Sir Henry Drummond Wolff rose to object to the administration of the Oath to Bradlaugh. Speaker Brand allowed him to object, and Wolff argued that the Evidence Amendment Acts referred to by Bradlaugh only allowed an affirmation to one who regarded the oath as meaningless, so the House should not allow Bradlaugh to take it. Prime Minister William Gladstone, alerted to the fact that a protest was possible, moved to set up a second Select Committee to examine whether it was possible to interfere with a Member wishing to take the oath. Gladstone's amendment was carried by 289 to 214.\n\nThe Select Committee began deliberating on 1 June 1880, when it considered a paper put in by Sir Thomas Erskine May, the Clerk of the House. Sir Thomas found several precedents for Members disabled to sit for refusing to take the Oath, together with Quaker MP Joseph Pease who was permitted to affirm, and Jewish MPs Baron Lionel de Rothschild and David Salomons who were eventually allowed to take the Oath while omitting the words \"on the true faith of a Christian.\"\n\nOn the following day, Erskine May and Bradlaugh himself were questioned by the Committee, with Bradlaugh arguing that, should the Committee decide he had no right to affirm, he would take the oath and regard it as binding on his conscience. When the Committee decided its report, it agreed by one vote an amendment declaring that the House could \"and, in the opinion of your Committee, ought to\" prevent Bradlaugh taking the Oath. It also added (by 12 votes to 9) that it would be possible for an action in the High Court of Justice to test whether an affirmation was genuinely legal, and therefore recommended that if Bradlaugh sought to affirm, he should be allowed to do so in order that such an action be brought to clarify the law. The second Select Committee had effectively reversed the outcome of the first.\n\nWhen it was known that this was the likely outcome of the Select Committee, Bradlaugh's fellow Northampton MP Henry Labouchère initiated a debate on a motion to allow Bradlaugh to affirm. Sir Hardinge Giffard moved an amendment that Bradlaugh be not permitted to take either the Oath or make an affirmation. After two days of debate, Giffard's amendment was carried by 275 to 230, a defeat which surprised Gladstone. The majority comprised 210 Conservatives, 34 Liberals and 31 Irish Home Rulers; supporting Bradlaugh were 218 Liberals, 10 Home Rulers and 2 Conservatives. On the next day, Bradlaugh came to the Table claiming to take the Oath; in consequence of the previous night's vote the Speaker ordered him to withdraw.\n\nBradlaugh was permitted to address the House from behind the Bar (which was technically outside the Chamber), and treated the occasion as his maiden speech. He based his argument on law, contending that he was not legally disqualified, and asking \"as one man against six hundred\" for the same justice he would receive in the Courts. Although well received, the speech was too late to reverse the decision, and Henry Labouchère was forced to withdraw a motion to rescind it.\n\nAt that point Bradlaugh was summoned back to the table to be told the outcome of the debate; having relayed it, the Speaker then ordered him to withdraw. Bradlaugh \"respectfully refused\" to obey an order of the House which was \"against the law.\" The Conservative leader Sir Stafford Northcote successfully moved a motion that Bradlaugh be required to withdraw (agreed on a division by 326 to 38, Liberal MPs being unwilling to challenge a motion which sustained the House's legal authority) but Bradlaugh \"positively refused to obey.\" The Serjeant-at-Arms was sent for and led Bradlaugh out to the Bar of the House, but Bradlaugh then immediately returned to the table claiming to take the Oath. At this Sir Stafford Northcote moved that Bradlaugh be taken into custody. The House agreed, on a division by 274 votes to 7 and Bradlaugh was taken to the small prison cell located under Big Ben in the Clock Tower.\n\nLord Randolph Churchill roused the Conservatives by leading resistance to Bradlaugh.\n\nBecause Members had to take the oath before being allowed to take their seats, he effectively forfeited his seat in Parliament. His seat fell vacant and a by-election was declared. Bradlaugh was re-elected by Northampton four times in succession as the dispute continued. Supporting Bradlaugh were William Ewart Gladstone, T. P. O'Connor and George Bernard Shaw as well as hundreds of thousands of people who signed a public petition. Opposing his right to sit were the Conservative Party, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and other leading figures in the Church of England and Roman Catholic Church.\n\nOn at least one occasion, Bradlaugh was escorted from the House by police officers. In 1883 he took his seat and voted three times before being fined £1,500 for voting illegally. A bill allowing him to affirm was defeated in Parliament.\n\nIn 1886 Bradlaugh was finally allowed to take the oath, and did so at the risk of prosecution under the Parliamentary Oaths Act. Two years later, in 1888, he secured passage of a new Oaths Act, which enshrined into law the right of affirmation for members of both Houses, as well as extending and clarifying the law as it related to witnesses in civil and criminal trials (the Evidence Amendment Acts of 1869 and 1870 had proved unsatisfactory, though they had given relief to many who would otherwise have been disadvantaged). Bradlaugh spoke in Parliament about the London matchgirls strike of 1888.\n\nHis daughter, Hypatia Bradlaugh Bonner (1858–1935), was a peace activist, author, atheist and freethinker. She was named for Hypatia, the Ancient Greek pagan philosopher, mathematician, astronomer and teacher, who was murdered by a mob of Coptic monks devoted to the Christian archbishop Cyril of Alexandria.\n\nBradlaugh died on 30 January 1891. His funeral was attended by 3,000 mourners, including a 21-year-old Mohandas Gandhi. He is buried in Brookwood Cemetery.\nIn 1898, Bradlaugh's daughter Hypatia Bradlaugh Bonner wrote a pamphlet in answer to the question that was often addressed to her: whether her father \"changed his opinions and became a Christian\" before he died. Bonner laid out all the evidence and concluded that her father gave no indication that his opinions had changed in the \"smallest\" way.\n\nA statue of Bradlaugh is located on a traffic island at Abington Square, Northampton. The statue points west towards the centre of Northampton, the accusing finger periodically missing due to vandalism. In 2014 the statue was cleaned and returned to the stonework. New signs are to be installed in 2015 on the roundabout reading \"Charles Bradlaugh MP\".\n\nSince 2002, an \"Annual Commemoration\" has taken place beneath the statue at 3 pm on the Sunday closest to his birthday, organised by the Charles Bradlaugh Society. Attendees are invited to speak about Charles Bradlaugh. 2014 saw the addition of the inaugural Bradlaugh Talk with speakers on issues relevant to Bradlaugh. The first speaker was Graham Smith, CEO of Republic.\n\nBradlaugh Fields, a community wildlife park situated to the north of Northampton, was named after Charles Bradlaugh when it opened in 1998. Other landmarks bearing his name include \"The Charles Bradlaugh\" pub, Charles Bradlaugh Hall at the University of Northampton and Bradlaugh Hall in Lahore, Pakistan.\n\nIn November 2016 a portrait bust of Charles Bradlaugh entered the Parliamentary Art Collection. Displayed in the Palace of Westminster, the sculpture was designed by Suzie Zamit (who is the fourth female sculptor to have work represented in the Parliamentary Art Collection) and was donated by the National Secular Society as part of its 150th anniversary celebrations.\n\nWorks by Charles Bradlaugh: 132 works online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12441121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12441121", "title": "Cherkesogai", "text": "Cherkesogai\n\nCherkesogai () or Circassian Armenians ( \"cherk'ezahayer\"; ; Circassian: Адыгэ-ермэлы), sometimes referred to as Ermeli (Circassian: Ермэлы), Mountainous Armenians () or Transkuban Armenians (), are ethnic Armenians who have inhabited Russia's Krasnodar Krai and Republic of Adyghea since the end of 15th century and spoke the Adyghe language (currently, most of them speak Russian as their first language), apart from other Armenians living in the region. They reside mostly in the cities of Armavir and Maykop. The total number of Cherkosogai is about 50,000 people (2008 estimate). According to the Russian 2002 Census, 230 Armenians speak Lowland Adyghe and 222 speak Kabardian Adyghe natively.\n\nNotable Cherkesogai include the first Soviet millionaire Artyom Mikhailovich Tarasov, Prix Goncourt-winning writer Henri Troyat (né Lev Aslanovich Tarasov), merchant Nikita Pavlovich Bogarsukov and ballerina Olga Aslanovna Tarasova.\n\nSince the early Medieval period, many Armenians have lived as diaspora, due to foreign invasions of Armenia, national and religious persecution, genocide and wars. The formation of the present-day Armenian diaspora in the North Caucasus took place during the 17th and 18th centuries, although the first Hemshin Armenians arrived during the 8th century.\n\nThe migrations of Armenians to the Kuban took place in a series of waves. The first took place from the late 1780s to the 1860s, when around 3,000 Armenians came to the region from the Russian towns of Astrakhan, Kizlyar and Mozdok, as well as around 300 Persian Turkish Armenians. During this period, the first Armenian settlements in the Kuban were founded, including Armavir, founded in 1839, considered to be the first. Armenian communities were also established in larger towns such as Novorossiysk, Anapa and Ekaterinodar.\n\nThe second wave of migrants came during the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th centuries, when around 30,000 mostly Turkish Hemshin Armenians arrived in the region, along with a few from Persia and Transcaucasia. During this period two different types of migrants can be identified: those who came for economic reasons who were attracted by Russian government and those who were forced to leave due to the oppression and genocide by the Ottoman government. The peak of migration activity was reached at the end of the 1870s as a result of the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878), in the 1890s when pogroms took place against Armenians in Turkey and Baku and from 1915 to 1920 when mass persecution of the Armenian population took place in Turkey.\n\nThe third wave of migration took place during the 1950s, when most Armenians settled in Anapsky District, mainly in the settlement of Gaikodzor. These were migrants from Georgia, so-called Akhalkalaki Armenians, named after the town of Akhalkalaki in southern Georgia, and comprised less than 300 people.\n\nThe fourth wave took place in the 1970s mainly from two regions: those who came from Azerbaijan, so-called Karabakh Armenians, and those from Central Asia, such as Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Kirghizia. They primarily came to Krasnodar Krai for economic reasons and numbered from 5,000 to 7,000 people. From the end of the 1980s to the mid-1990s, more migrants (approximately 300,000) resettled in the Kuban region as a result of the ethnic conflicts across the Soviet Union, mainly from conflict areas such as Azerbaijan, Armenia and Fergana Valley (Uzbekistan and Kirghizia). After these conflicts, there were also migrants who came as a result of poor economic conditions in the newly formed republics, from Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan and republics of Central Asia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3722910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3722910", "title": "Christopher Penley", "text": "Christopher Penley\n\nThe shooting of Christopher Penley, a 15-year-old boy, occurred on January 13, 2006, at Milwee Middle School in Longwood, Florida. During class, Penley took out an Airsoft gun that was designed to look realistic. Penley ran from the room and eventually entered a restoom area. SWAT officers arrived on the scene and tried to negotiate with him. Penley pointed the Airsoft gun at an officer, who responded by shooting Penley.\n\nHe had briefly taken classmate Maurice Cotey hostage in a classroom and then later barricaded himself in an outdoor bathroom at Milwee Middle School in Longwood, Florida, with an Airsoft gun painted entirely black to disguise it as a Beretta 92. After the weapon was discovered by Cotey, Penley forced him into the closet and shut off the lights in the classroom. The student immediately fled and informed security and later phoned police. SWAT arrived on the scene shortly thereafter, while a negotiator attempted to initiate contact with Penley. After a twenty-minute stand-off he aimed the pistol at Lieutenant Michael Weippert who responded by shooting him.\n\nHe was transported to Orlando Regional Medical Center where he remained on life support for two days before dying of his wounds. Several of his organs were removed and used as transplants. Seminole County Sheriff Don Eslinger said the boy was suicidal and would not respond to negotiators who tried to talk him down in the bathroom.\n\nSome students at the school told the media after the incident that they knew he had \"something planned\". Police have been criticized for initiating action instead of waiting for Penley's father to arrive so that his father might convince him to surrender. The \"Orlando Sentinel\" reported that Ralph Penley was not told of events until after his son was shot. The Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigated the shooting and found it entirely justified, as Penley aimed a weapon at the deputy.\n\nPenley's organs were donated by his family. His death gave nine people vital organs. Christopher Penley has also had a game room at the Landmark Church dedicated to him and a Youth center. The youth center the Adolescent Life Coaching Center opened in honor of Christopher Penley's memory and to give a place for the voice of youth to be heard.\n\nPenley's family filed a lawsuit against police; however, a judge dismissed the suit after determining that the shooting was justified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228665", "title": "Codependency", "text": "Codependency\n\nCodependency is a controversial concept for a dysfunctional helping relationship where one person supports or enables another person's addiction, poor mental health, immaturity, irresponsibility, or under-achievement. Among the core characteristics of codependency, the most common theme is an excessive reliance on other people for approval and a sense of identity.\nGiven its grassroots origin, the precise definition of codependency varies based on the source but can be generally characterized as a subclinical and situational or episodic behavior similar to that of dependent personality disorder. In its broadest definition, a codependent is someone who cannot function from his or her innate self and whose thinking and behavior is instead organized around another person, or even a process, or substance. In this context, people who are addicted to a substance, like drugs, or a process, like gambling or sex, can also be considered codependent. In its most narrow definition, it requires one person to be physically or psychologically addicted, such as to heroin, and the second person to be psychologically dependent on that behavior. Some users of the codependency concept use the word as an alternative to using the concept of dysfunctional families, without statements that classify it as a disease.\n\nAccording to disability studies specialist Lennard J. Davis, historically, the concept of co-dependence \"comes directly out of Alcoholics Anonymous, part of a dawning realization that the problem was not solely the addict, but also the family and friends who constitute a network for the alcoholic.\" \"While not an actual diagnosis, the term “codependent” was first used to describe how family members of individuals with substance abuse issues might actually interfere with recovery by overhelping.\"\nIt was subsequently broadened to cover the way \"that the codependent person is fixated on another person for approval, sustenance, and so on.\" The concept of codependency overlaps with, but developed in the mainstream independently from, the older psychoanalytic concept of the passive dependent personality which is attaching oneself to a stronger personality. \"Dependency\" is well-established in psychological literature. Whereas early on psychoanalytic theory emphasized the oral character and structural basis of dependency, social learning theory considered a tendency to be acquired by learning and experience, and ethological attachment theory posited that attachment or affectional bonding is the basis for dependency. All three theories have contributed to the concept of dependent personality disorder as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) of the American Psychiatric Association. The definition and criteria have changed in the different versions of the DSM. In DSM-I, passive dependency personality was characterized by helplessness, denial, and indecisiveness, and was considered a subtype of passive aggressive personality. By DSM-IV, there were nine criteria with an essential feature of a pervasive or lifetime pattern of dependent and submissive behavior. The DSM-IV definition emphasized the excessive need to be taken care of, leading to submissive and clinging behavior and fear of separation.\n\nThe codependency movement may have its roots in the theories of German psychoanalyst Karen Horney. In 1941, she proposed that some people adopt what she termed a \"Moving Toward\" personality style to overcome their basic anxiety. Essentially, these people move toward others by gaining their approval and affection, and subconsciously control them through their dependent style. They are unselfish, virtuous, martyr-like, faithful, and turn the other cheek despite personal humiliation. Approval from others is more important than respecting themselves. Al-Anon was formed in 1951, 16 years after Alcoholics Anonymous was founded. Al-Anon holds the view that alcoholism is a family illness and is one of the earliest recognitions of codependency.\n\nThe expansion of the meaning of codependency happened very publicly. Janet G. Woititz's \"Adult Children of Alcoholics\" had come out in 1983 and sold two million copies while being on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list for forty-eight weeks. Robin Norwood's \"Women Who Love Too Much\", 1985, sold two and a half million copies and spawned Twelve Step groups across the country for women \"addicted\" to men. Melody Beattie popularized the concept of codependency in 1986 with the book \"Codependent No More\" which sold eight million copies. In 1986, Timmen Cermak, M.D. wrote \"Diagnosing and Treating Co-Dependence: A Guide for Professionals\". In the book and an article published in the Journal of Psychoactive Drugs (Volume 18, Issue 1, 1986), Cermak argued (unsuccessfully) for the inclusion of codependency as a separate personality disorder in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-III-R; American Psychiatric Association, 1987). Cermak's book paved the way for a Twelve-step take-off program, called Co-Dependents Anonymous. The first Co-Dependents Anonymous meeting was held October 22, 1986.\n\nMainstream psychological scientists have questioned the validity of the codependency construct as a form of pseudoscientific \"psychobabble\" , and its scientific status remains uncertain.\n\nCodependency does not refer to all caring behavior or feelings, but only those that are excessive to an unhealthy degree. One of the distinctions is that healthy empathy and caregiving is motivated by conscious choice; whereas for codependents, their actions are compulsive, and they usually aren't able to weigh in the consequences of them or their own needs that they're sacrificing. Some scholars and treatment providers feel that codependency is an overresponsibility and that overresponsibility needs to be understood as a positive impulse gone awry. Responsibility for relationships with others needs to coexist with responsibility to self.\n\nCodependency has been referred to as the disease of a lost self. Codependent relationships are marked by intimacy problems, dependency, control (including caretaking) denial, dysfunctional communication and boundaries, and high reactivity. Often, there is imbalance, so one person is abusive or in control or supports or enables another person's addiction, poor mental health, immaturity, irresponsibility, or under-achievement. Some codependents often find themselves in relationships where their primary role is that of rescuer, supporter, and confidante. These helper types are often dependent on the other person's poor functioning to satisfy their own emotional needs. Many codependents place a lower priority on their own needs, while being excessively preoccupied with the needs of others. Codependency can occur in any type of relationship, including family, work, friendship, and also romantic, peer or community relationships.\n\nCommonly cited symptoms of codependency are:\n\nCodependency can occur in any type of relationship, including family, work, friendship, and also romantic, peer or community relationships.\n\nIn a codependent relationship, the codependent's sense of purpose is based on making extreme sacrifices to satisfy their partner's needs. Codependent relationships signify a degree of unhealthy \"clinginess\", where one person does not have self-sufficiency or autonomy. One or both parties depend on their loved one for fulfillment.\n\nParticularly problematic pairings include:\n\nIn the dysfunctional family the child learns to become attuned to the parent's needs and feelings instead of the other way around. Parenting is a role that requires a certain amount of self-sacrifice and giving a child's needs a high priority. A parent can, nevertheless, be codependent towards their own children if the caretaking or parental sacrifice reaches unhealthy or destructive levels. Generally, a parent who takes care of their own needs (emotional and physical) in a healthy way will be a better caretaker, whereas a codependent parent may be less effective, or may even do harm to a child. Codependent relationships often manifest through enabling behaviors, especially between parents and their children. Another way to look at it is that the needs of an infant are necessary but temporary, whereas the needs of the codependent are constant. Children of codependent parents who ignore or negate their own feelings may become codependent.\n\nNot all mental health professionals agree about standard methods of treatment. Caring for an individual with a physical addiction is not necessarily treating a pathology. The caregiver may only require assertiveness skills and the ability to place responsibility for the addiction on the other. There are various recovery paths for individuals who struggle with codependency. For example, some may choose cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy, sometimes accompanied by chemical therapy for accompanying depression. There also exist support groups for codependency, such as Co-Dependents Anonymous (CoDA), Al-Anon/Alateen, Nar-Anon, and Adult Children of Alcoholics (ACoA), which are based on the twelve-step program model of Alcoholics Anonymous and Celebrate Recovery a Christian, Bible-based group. Many self-help guides have been written on the subject of codependency.\n\nSometimes an individual can, in attempts to recover from codependency, go from being overly passive or overly giving to being overly aggressive or excessively selfish. Many therapists maintain that finding a balance through healthy assertiveness (which leaves room for being a caring person and also engaging in healthy caring behavior) is true recovery from codependency and that becoming extremely selfish, a bully, or an otherwise conflict-addicted person is not. Developing a permanent stance of being a victim (having a victim mentality) would also not constitute true recovery from codependency and could be another example of going from one extreme to another. A victim mentality could also be seen as a part of one's original state of codependency (lack of empowerment causing one to feel like the \"subject\" of events rather than being an empowered actor). Someone truly recovered from codependency would feel empowered and like an author of their life and actions rather than being at the mercy of outside forces. A victim mentality may also occur in combination with passive–aggressive control issues. From the perspective of moving beyond victim-hood, the capacity to forgive and let go (with exception of cases of very severe abuse) could also be signs of real recovery from codependency, but the willingness to endure further abuse would not.\n\nUnresolved patterns of codependency can lead to more serious problems like alcoholism, drug addiction, eating disorders, sex addiction, psychosomatic illnesses, and other self-destructive or self-defeating behaviors. People with codependency are also more likely to attract further abuse from aggressive individuals, more likely to stay in stressful jobs or relationships, less likely to seek medical attention when needed and are also less likely to get promotions and tend to earn less money than those without codependency patterns. For some people, the social insecurity caused by codependency can progress into full-blown social anxiety disorders like social phobia, avoidant personality disorder or painful shyness. Other stress-related disorders like panic disorder, depression or PTSD may also be present.\n\nTimmen Cermak, M.D., proposed that co‐dependency be listed as a personality disorder in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-III-R; American Psychiatric Association, 1987). Cermak reasoned that when specific personality traits become excessive and maladaptive and caused significant impairment in functioning or caused significant distress, it warrants a personality disorder diagnosis.\n\nCermak proposed the following criteria for this disorder: \n\nSome scholars believe that codependency is not a negative trait, and does not need to be treated, as it is more likely a healthy personality trait taken to excess. Codependency in nonclinical populations has some links with favourable characteristics of family functioning. \nStan Katz states that codependence is over-diagnosed, and that many people who could be helped with shorter-term treatments instead become dependent on long-term self-help programs. The language of, symptoms of, and treatment for codependence derive from the medical model suggesting a disease process underlies the behavior. However, there is no evidence that codependence is caused by a disease process.\n\nIn their book, “Attached.”, Dr. Amir Levine and Rachel S. F. Heller, address what they call the “codependency myth” by asserting that attachment theory is a more scientific and helpful model for understanding and dealing with attachment in adults.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3459380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3459380", "title": "David Forrest (pseudonym)", "text": "David Forrest (pseudonym)\n\nDavid Forrest is a pen-name used by English novelists Robert Forrest-Webb and David Eliades to write four books, \"And to My Nephew Albert I Leave the Island What I Won off Fatty Hagan in a Poker Game\" (1969), \"The Great Dinosaur Robbery\" (1970), \"After Me, the Deluge\" (1972), and \"The Undertaker's Dozen\" (1974). These books featured tight plotlines and riotous humor, touching at the same time some serious topics: \"The Great Dinosaur Robbery\" and \"Nephew\" deal with the Cold War, \"After Me, the Deluge\" with religion.\n\n\"After Me, the Deluge\" was interpreted into the lavish stage musical \"Aggiungi un Posto a Tavola\" by the Italian impresarios Pietro Garinei, Sandro Giovannini and Iaia Fiastri in 1974 and has been running in Italy for 42 years. It is firmly entrenched as a family favourite and is reported to have been seen by more than 15-million people. Its English version, \"Beyond the Rainbow\", ran at the Adelphi Theatre, London, for two years during the late 1970s. It has also broken box-office records in the whole of Latin America and in Spain, Austria, Germany, Russia and Hungary. \"The Great Dinosaur Robbery\" became a Disney movie, \"One of Our Dinosaurs Is Missing\" (1975), which was also highly considered in its time. All these books are published by Hodder & Stoughton and are currently available online as e-books.\n"}
{"id": "18756988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18756988", "title": "George Naʻope", "text": "George Naʻope\n\nGeorge Lanakilakekiahialii Naope (February 25, 1928 – October 26, 2009), born in Kalihi, Hawaii and raised in Hilo, was a celebrated kumu hula, master Hawaiian chanter, and leading advocate and preservationist of native Hawaiian culture worldwide. He taught hula dancing for over sixty years in Hawaii, Japan, Guam, Australia, Germany, England, North America, and South America.\n\nNaope was a scholar of ancient hula, which is hula developed and danced before 1893. He first studied hula at the age of three years under his great-grandmother, Mary Malia Pukaokalani Naope, who lived to be over 100 years old. At the age of four he began to study with Mary Kanaele, the mother and teacher of Edith Kanaka'ole. When he moved to Oahu at the age of ten, he studied for ten years with Joseph Ilalaole. After graduating from high school, Naope moved to Honolulu where he opened the George Naope Hula School, then later continued his studies under Kumu Hula Lokalia Montgomery and Tom Hiona.\n\nNaope began to teach hula at the age of thirteen. His family was poor, so he taught hula for fifty cents per week in order to continue to pay for school. He taught chant and kahiko to the Ray Kinney dancers, and traveled with Ray Kinney.\n\nIn 1964, Naope founded the Merrie Monarch Festival, an annual week-long festival of traditional Hawaiian arts, crafts, and performances featuring a three-day hula competition. The festival became both a popular success and an important part of the Hawaiian Renaissance. In an interview Naope said of founding the festival, \"I felt the hula was becoming too modern and that we have to preserve it. David Kalakaua [King of Hawaii, 1874–91; aka \"The Merrie Monarch\"] brought the hula back to Hawaii and made us realize how important it was for our people. There was nothing here in Hilo, so I decided to honor Kalakaua and have a festival with just hula. I didn't realize that it was going to turn out to be one of the biggest things in our state.\"\n\nNaope was honored with numerous other awards, including being named a Living Treasure of Hawai'i by the Buddhist temple Honpa Hongwanji Mission of Hawai'i, \"Treasure of Hawaii\" by President George W. Bush and the Smithsonian Institution, and receiving a National Heritage Fellowship by the National Endowment for the Arts in 2006, which is the United States' highest honor in the folk and traditional arts.\n\nIn 2007, Naope founded the Halau Hula Is Hawai'i Trust and Hula Is Hawai'i, LLC, and instructed his entire estate to be placed into his trust. Despite his Last Will and Testament, certain individuals went against his wishes.\n\nNaope founded the \"Humu Moolelo\", a quarterly journal of the hula arts.\n\nUntil his death from cancer on October 26, 2009, aged 81, he resided in Hilo, Hawaii.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51222265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51222265", "title": "Giuseppe Bonavia", "text": "Giuseppe Bonavia\n\nGiuseppe Bonavia (1821 – 2 September 1885) was a Maltese draftsman and architect who was mainly active in the second half of the 19th century. Born in Valletta, he was initially a clerk of works with the Royal Engineers, before becoming the Head of the Civil Service Works Department.\n\nBonavia designed in a variety of styles, including Gothic Revival and Neoclassical architecture. His signature buildings were those of the 1850s and 1860s. His St. Andrew's Scots Church (1854) was the first Gothic church to be built in Malta, while his masterpiece is La Borsa (Exchange Buildings), which was built in 1857.\n\nBuildings designed by Bonavia include:\nBonavia also made plans for the proposed Royal Opera House in 1859, but eventually the building was constructed to designs of the English architect Edward Middleton Barry. The Dragonara Palace in St. Julian's is sometimes also attributed to Bonavia.\n"}
{"id": "1705933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1705933", "title": "Grant Naylor", "text": "Grant Naylor\n\nGrant Naylor was the collective name used by writers Rob Grant and Doug Naylor for their collaborative work, including the television series \"Red Dwarf\". Grant and Naylor themselves called this pseudonym a \"gestalt entity\" (i.e. something which is greater than the sum of its parts).\n\nThe collaboration began in the mid-1980s when the duo co-wrote BBC Radio 4 programmes such as \"Cliché\" and its sequel \"Son of Cliché\", and television programmes such as \"Spitting Image\", \"The 10 Percenters\", and various Jasper Carrott projects. The pair are also credited with writing the lyrics to \"The Chicken Song\" and a number of other musical parodies for the British satirical television show, \"Spitting Image\".\n\nThe \"Grant Naylor\" collaboration, as it had become known, created the cult science-fiction comedy series, \"Red Dwarf\". Later episodes of \"Red Dwarf\" were made by a company named after this pseudonym, Grant Naylor Productions.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, after the success of Series VI of \"Red Dwarf\", the \"Grant Naylor\" collaboration ended, leaving Naylor with all the writing duties for the show. When Doug Naylor was apparently left with control of \"Red Dwarf\", Rob Grant cited creative differences as the reason for his departure. His main reason however, he said, was that he \"wished to have more on his 'tombstone' than \"Red Dwarf\".\"\n\nDoug Naylor went on to write series seven to twelve of \"Red Dwarf\" by himself, sometimes in collaboration with other writers, particularly on series seven.\n\nIn 1999 and 2000, Rob Grant independently wrote two television series, \"Dark Ages\" and \"The Strangerers\", and script edited the series \"Stressed Eric\". In the past few years he has written four solo books and is rumoured to be working on an animated series entitled \"Cruel Aliens\".\n\nSince the end of the eighth series of \"Red Dwarf\" in 1999, Grant Naylor Productions under Doug Naylor attempted to make a feature-length movie version of the show. However, it proved impossible to find sufficient funding. Instead, a new three-part TV miniseries, \"\", was created and shown on channel Dave over the Easter weekend in April 2009. Since then Grant Naylor Productions have created a tenth series \"Red Dwarf X\", broadcast in 2012. Red Dwarf XI was broadcast on UKTV's Dave channel from September to October 2016. Red Dwarf XII, which was shot back-to-back with XI, aired from October to November 2017.\n"}
{"id": "40010982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40010982", "title": "Guo Zhongmin", "text": "Guo Zhongmin\n\nGuo Zhongmin (June 24, 1966 - February 23, 2003) was a Chinese mass murderer who killed 13 people in Yangxiaoxiang, Huludao, People's Republic of China on February 18, 2003, before committing suicide.\n\nDue to a land dispute with three neighbours he armed himself with a knife and a stick, entered their homes and stabbed or beat a total of 13 people, all of them fatally, before he fled and hid in the mountains. Searched by more than 1000 police officers Guo eventually committed suicide by swallowing pesticide when he was surrounded on February 23.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7711434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7711434", "title": "Guy-André Kieffer", "text": "Guy-André Kieffer\n\nGuy-André Kieffer (born 25 May 1949) is a journalist of dual French and Canadian nationality who worked in West Africa generally, and in Côte d'Ivoire specifically. On April 16, 2004, he was kidnapped from an Abidjan parking lot and has not been seen since. In early 2012 remains suspected to belong to Kieffer were found in the department of Issia, in the west of Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nKieffer was born and raised in France; his family lives in the region of Rhône-Alpes. He studied law in Montreal, and while there married a Canadian woman and obtained Canadian nationality; this marriage produced a son Sébastien-Cédric but later resulted in divorce. Kieffer was married to Osange Silou-Kieffer; they have a daughter Canelle.\n\nFrom 1984 to 2002, Kieffer worked for the French financial newspaper \"La Tribune\". Following this he worked in West Africa for a number of years, and wrote articles concerning Political corruption in African governments for several different publications.\n\nAmong these publications were his former newspaper \"La Tribune\" and also \"La Lettre du Continent\" as well as several Ivorian newspapers.\n\nAt approximately 1 p.m. on April 16, 2004, Kieffer was kidnapped in the parking lot of a shopping center in Abidjan. At the time he was working on a story about money laundering and illegal currency transfers allegedly involving the Ivorian government.\n\nHe had been drawn there by someone claiming to have leads on a government corruption story he was assembling. He has never been seen since, nor has a corpse been found. To this day his fate and the identity of his kidnappers remains a mystery.\n\nIn a 2006 interview regarding her book \"Bitter Chocolate\", CBC journalist Carol Off claimed that Kieffer's disappearance and probable murder was related to his investigation of the shady practices involving the Ivorian government and the cocoa industry. She had travelled to Côte d'Ivoire to research her book, and claimed that upon her arrival in the country Canadian embassy officials had given her a stern warning regarding Kieffer:\n\nIn May 2004, civil proceedings concerning Kieffer's disappearance were launched in France by Kieffer's family and Reporters sans frontières. The French magistrate charged with the case was sent to Abidjan and there interrogated Michel Legré, a brother-in-law of the wife of Ivorian president Laurent Gbagbo, who was allegedly the last person to see Kieffer alive. Legré provided a list of names of influential Ivorians who he alleged were involved in Kieffer's kidnapping.\n\nThis list of names was subsequently published in some Ivorian newspapers. In 2004, Legré was arrested in Abidjan by Ivorian police and charged with complicity in a kidnapping, illegal imprisonment and murder. He was also charged with defamation for naming the individuals on the list. Legré was provisionally released in 2005 and has since fled the country – or is in an unknown location.\n\nSubsequently, the French magistrate was not granted access to all of the persons named by Legré. The magistrate questioned Legré himself on 21 October 2004, and on 13 December 2004 requested that Legré be temporarily moved to France, as he felt Legré was unable to speak freely in his Ivorian prison. However, the French government initially did not aid in this request, for which they were denounced by Kieffer's wife Osange Silou-Kieffer.\n\nOn August 23, 2007, French president Nicolas Sarkozy met with Kieffer's wife Osange Silou-Kieffer in Paris, and expressed his determination to aid in the case. Silou-Kieffer claimed that Sarkozy's predecessor Jacques Chirac had never answered her request for a meeting.\n\nSilou-Kieffer indicated she had asked Sarkozy to pressure Ivorian president Laurent Gbagbo to allow French judges to interrogate Ivorian suspects in the case.\n\nIn July 2008 Simone Gbagbo – First Lady of Côte d'Ivoire – was formally called for questioning by a French investigative judge, examining the April 2004 disappearance and presumed death of Kieffer. Speculation has surrounded the Ivorian first family, as Michel Legré is the brother-in-law of Simone Gbagbo. French judicial officials have arrested and are investigating Jean-Tony Oulaï, a former member of the Ivorian Secret Services, whom they detained in Paris in 2006. Jean-Tony Oulaï's driver at the time Berte Seydou, as well as Mr Kieffer's brother, have alleged that Ms. Gbagbo and former Ivorian Minister of Planning and Development Paul-Antoine Bohoun Bouabré have knowledge of the events surrounding Mr Kieffer's death, and that Oulaï is responsible.\n\n"}
{"id": "20938438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20938438", "title": "Herman Klein", "text": "Herman Klein\n\nHerman Klein (born Hermann Klein; 23 July 1856 – 10 March 1934) was an English music critic, author and teacher of singing. Klein's famous brothers included Charles and Manuel Klein. His second wife was the writer Kathleen Clarice Louise Cornwell, and one of their children was the writer Denise Robins.\n\nFor thirteen years, Klein was a vocal teacher at the Guildhall School of Music in London, becoming a lifelong proponent of the methods of Manuel Garcia and helping to edit Garcia's book on the subject. In 1876 he took up musical journalism, writing for \"The Sunday Times\" from 1881–1901, among other publications. He also contributed prolifically to \"The Musical Times\". From 1901 to 1909, Klein lived and taught singing in New York City, where he wrote for \"The New York Herald\". He was one of the first critics to take notice of the gramophone and was appointed \"musical adviser\" to Columbia Records in 1906 in New York. He returned to England in 1909.\n\nKlein wrote over half a dozen books about music and singers, as well as English translations of operas and art songs. He was a noted authority on Gilbert and Sullivan. In 1924 he began writing for \"The Gramophone\" and was in charge of operatic reviews, as well as contributing a monthly article on singing, from then until his death.\n\nKlein was born in Norwich, Norfolk, East Anglia, England the son of Hermann Klein senior and his wife Adelaide (née Soman). Apparently, the elder Klein emigrated from Riga, Latvia, then part of the Russian Empire, and home to a large community of Baltic German Jews such as the Kleins. Once in Norwich, his father became a professor of foreign languages at the King Edward VI Grammar School, and his mother taught dance. The younger Klein's five brothers were Max, a violinist, Charles, a dramatist; Manuel, a composer; Alfred, an actor; and Philip. They had a sister, Adelaide. He was the uncle of producer Philip Klein (1888–1935).\n\nAlthough his forename was frequently spelled as \"Hermann\" until World War I, he \"deprecated any foreign pronunciation of it and was proud of his British citizenship and upbringing\". The musical activities of Norwich, particularly its Festival and the Cathedral services, impressed him as a boy. He was educated in Norwich and later in London. \nKlein was married three times. His first wife was Emily May Brown, a ballerina, with whom he had a daughter, Sibyl Klein, who became an actress; they divorced. On 19 February 1890, he married a 17-year-old Australian-born heiress Kathleen Clarice Louise Cornwell, later a popular writer, at the West London Synagogue. Their children included two writers: Adrian Bernard L. Klein (1892–1969), who changed his name to Adrian Cornwell-Clyne and wrote books on photography and cinematography, and Denise Naomi Klein (1897–1985), who under her first married name, Denise Robins, became a best-selling romantic novelist and was the first president of the Romantic Novelists' Association (1960–1966). Her daughter, Patricia Robins, is also a popular romance writer under the name Claire Lorrimer. Klein and Kathleen Clarice had another son, Daryl Kleyn (b. 1894). During their marriage, Kathleen Clarice began an affair with a young man, Herbert Arthur Berkeley Dealtry (b. 1878), who was a Worcestershire Regiment officer. When Klein became aware of it, he filed a petition for divorce, which was granted in December 1901. He was still affiliated with the West London Synagogue in 1901, the year of his divorce and his departure for New York. Klein's third wife was Helene Fox, a Christian Science practitioner of Boston, Massachusetts, whom he married in 1905.\n\nKlein died in London, aged 77.\n\nFor thirteen years, Klein was a vocal teacher at the Guildhall School of Music in London and also trained many professional singers privately. He wrote songs and short works for piano. In 1874, Klein returned to Norwich temporarily to help his ailing mother. That year Manuel Garcia also moved into the same house as Klein at 1 Bentinck Street in London. Klein became his student for four years and was closely associated with him for another six years. The friendship became a transformative experience for Klein, who would recall Garcia and his singing principles in many of his writings throughout his life. He helped edit Garcia's book on his singing method, published in English in 1872 (later revised by Klein and published as \"Hints on Singing\" in 1894).\n\nIn 1876 Klein took up musical journalism. He began writing for \"The Examiner\" in 1879, and then for \"The Sunday Times\" (1881–1901), \"The Illustrated London News\", \"The Citizen\", and the \"Lady's Pictorial\". He was for many years a musical correspondent of \"The Manchester Guardian\" and \"The Scotsman\" and also contributed prolifically to \"The Musical Times\".\n\nFrom 1901 to 1909, He lived in New York City, where he wrote for \"The New York Herald\", taught singing, and was a founder and first chairman of the National Association of Teachers of Singing. He was one of the first critics to take notice of the gramophone. He was appointed \"musical adviser\" to Columbia Records in 1906 in New York and was responsible for introducing David Bispham, Anton van Rooy, Lillian Blauvelt and Ruth Vincent and others to the recording studio. Klein eventually came to hold an unfavourable view of American musical life and returned to Britain in May 1909, continuing to teach and write. He wrote over half a dozen books about music and singers, as well as English translations of operas and art songs. In 1924 he began writing for \"The Gramophone\" and was in charge of operatic reviews, as well as contributing a monthly article on singing, from then until his death.\n\nAmong his other activities, Klein listed \"Inventor of the Phono-Vocal Method of learning singing with the aid of a gramophone\" and \"Past Grand Organist of Grand Lodge of Freemasons\". He was a member of the Critics' Circle, of which he was President and also Chairman of its musical committee.\n\nIn addition to publishing several books containing his criticism or music commentary, in which he left \"vivid pictures of the great singers whose art he studied in the opera house\", Klein translated several operas, including \"Carmen\", and poems of over seventy songs by Schubert, Schumann and Brahms. He was an authority on Gilbert and Sullivan, having, as a young man, known Arthur Sullivan well and worked with him on musical committees. Klein arranged for Sullivan to provide incidental music for Henry Irving's 1889 production of \"Macbeth\". He later contributed articles on Gilbert and Sullivan to \"The Gramophone\". For \"The Musical Times\", he wrote on subjects including Music Festivals, the Royal Albert Hall, the Royal Choral Society, Camille Saint-Saëns, Richard Wagner and Nellie Melba.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18296177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18296177", "title": "Hitler family", "text": "Hitler family\n\nThe Hitler family comprises the relatives and ancestors of Adolf Hitler (20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945), an Austrian-born German politician and the leader of the National Socialist German Workers' Party (\"Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\", abbreviated NSDAP), commonly known as the Nazi Party. He was dictator of Germany, holding the titles Chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945, and served as head of state as \"Führer und Reichskanzler\" from 1934 to 1945. He is noted for his central role in the rise of fascism in Germany, provoking the start of World War II, and the death of millions of people in the Holocaust.\n\nBefore the birth of Adolf Hitler the family surname had many variations that were often used almost interchangeably. Some of the common variances were Hitler, Hiedler, Hüttler, Hytler, and Hittler. Alois Schicklgruber (Adolf's father) changed his name on 7 January 1877 to \"Hitler\", which was the only form of the last name that Adolf used.\n\nThe family has long been of interest to historians and genealogists because of the biological uncertainty of Hitler's paternal grandfather as well as the family's inter-relationships and their psychological effect on Hitler during his childhood and later life.\n\n\"Hitler\" may be a spelling variation of the name \"Hiedler\", meaning one who resides by a \"Hiedl\" - in Austro-Bavarian dialects a term for a subterranean fountain or river. Or the \"Hitler\" surname may be based on \"one who lives in a hut\" (German \"Hütte\" for \"hut\").\n\nThe roots of the Hitler family tree go back to Stefan Hiedler (born 1672) and Agnes Capeller, whose grandson Martin Hiedler (17 November 1762 – 10 January 1829), married Anna Maria Göschl (23 August 1760 – 7 December 1854). This couple had at least three children, Lorenz, Johann Georg (baptised 28 February 1792 – 9 February 1857), and Johann Nepomuk (19 March 1807 – 17 September 1888). Johann Georg was the stepfather of Alois Hitler, who was Adolf Hitler's father, and Johan Nepomuk was the future Führer's maternal great-grandfather. There is no additional information about Lorenz Hiedler. The Hiedlers were from Spital, part of Weitra in Austria.\n\nBrothers Johann Georg and Johann Nepomuk Hiedler are connected to Adolf Hitler in several ways, although the biological relationship is disputed.\n\nJohann Georg was legitimized and considered the officially accepted paternal grandfather of Hitler by Nazi Germany. Whether he was actually Hitler's biological paternal grandfather remains unknown. He married his first wife in 1824, but she died in childbirth five months later. In 1842, he married Maria Anna Schicklgruber (15 April 1795 – 7 January 1847) and became the legal stepfather to her illegitimate five-year-old son, Alois.\n\nAround age 10, near the time of his mother's death, Alois went to live with Johann Nepomuk on his farm. Johann Nepomuk Hiedler (also known as Johann Nepomuk Hüttler) was named after a Bohemian saint, Johann von Nepomuk, an important saint for Bohemians of both German and Czech ethnicity. Johann Nepomuk became a relatively prosperous farmer and was married to Eva Maria Decker (1792–1873), who was fifteen years his senior.\n\nThe Nazis issued a pamphlet during the 1932 second elections campaign titled \"Facts and Lies about Hitler\" which refuted the rumour spread by the S.P.D. and Center Party that Hitler had Czech ancestors. There is no evidence that any of Hitler's known ancestors were of Czech origin.\n\nThe identity of the biological father of Alois is disputed. Legally, Johann Nepomuk Hiedler was the step-uncle of Alois Schicklgruber (later Alois Hitler), and Johann Nepomuk's brother Johann Georg Hiedler, a wandering miller, was his step-father. For reasons unknown, Johann Nepomuk took in Alois when he was a boy and raised him. It is possible that he was, in fact, the natural father of Alois but could not acknowledge this publicly due to his marriage. Another possibility is that he took pity on the ten-year-old Alois after the death of the boy's mother Maria, as it could hardly have been a suitable life for a ten-year-old child to be raised by an itinerant miller. Johann Nepomuk died on 17 September 1888 and left Alois a considerable portion of his life savings. \n\nIt was later claimed that Johann Georg had fathered Alois prior to his marriage to Maria, although Alois had been declared illegitimate on his birth certificate and baptism papers. The claim that Johann Georg was the true father of Alois was not made during the lifetime of either Johann Georg or Maria. In 1877, 20 years after the death of Johann Georg and almost 30 years after the death of Maria, Alois was legally declared to have been Johann Georg's son. Johann Nepomuk engineered the plan to change the surname of Alois to \"Hitler\" and to have Johann Georg declared the biological father of Alois in 1876. Johann Nepomuk collected three \"witnesses\" (his son-in-law and two others) who testified before a notary in Weitra that Johann Georg had several times stated in their presence that he was the actual father of Alois and wanted to make Alois his legitimate son and heir. The parish priest in Döllersheim, where the original birth certificate of Alois resided, altered the birth register. Alois was 39 years old at the time and was well-known in the community as \"Alois Schicklgruber\".\n\nAccordingly, Johann Georg Hiedler is one of three people often cited as having possibly been the biological grandfather of Adolf Hitler. The other two are Johann Nepomuk and a Graz Jew by the name of Leopold Frankenberger (rumored by ex-Nazi Hans Frank during the Nuremberg Trials). In the 1950s, the third possibility became popular among historians, but modern historians have concluded that Frank's speculation has no factual support. Frank said that Maria came from \"Leonding near Linz\", when in fact she came from the hamlet of Strones, near the village of Döllersheim. No evidence has ever been found that a \"Frankenberger\" lived in the area; the Jews were expelled from Styria (which includes Graz) in the 15th century and were not permitted to return until the 1860s, several decades after the birth of Alois. Although Alois was legitimized and Johann Georg was considered the officially accepted paternal grandfather of Hitler by the Third Reich, whether he was Hitler's biological grandfather remains unknown and has caused speculation. However, his case is considered the most plausible and widely accepted.\n\nJohanna Hiedler, the daughter of Johann Nepomuk and Eva Hiedler (\"née\" Decker) was born on 19 January 1830 in Spital (part of Weitra) in the Waldviertel of Lower Austria. She lived her entire life there and was married to Johann Baptist Pölzl (1825–1901), a farmer and son of Johann Pölzl and Juliana (Walli) Pölzl. Johanna and Johann had 5 sons and 6 daughters, of whom 2 sons and 3 daughters survived into adulthood, the 3 daughters being Klara, Johanna, and Theresia. Klara’s brothers' identities are unknown.\n\nAt the age of 36, Alois Hitler was married for the first time, to Anna Glasl-Hörer, who was a wealthy, 50-year-old daughter of a customs official. She was sick when Alois married her and was either an invalid or became one shortly afterwards. Not long after marrying her, Alois Hitler began an affair with 19-year-old Franziska \"Fanni\" Matzelsberger, one of the young female servants employed at the Pommer Inn, house #219, in the city of Braunau am Inn, where he was renting the top floor as a lodging. Smith states that Alois had numerous affairs in the 1870s, resulting in his wife initiating legal action; on 7 November 1880 Alois and Anna separated by mutual agreement. Matzelsberger became the 43-year-old Hitler's girlfriend, but the two could not marry since under Roman Catholic canon law, divorce is not permitted. \n\nOn 13 January 1882, Matzelsberger gave birth to Hitler's illegitimate son, also named Alois, but since they were not married, the child was Alois Matzelsberger. Hitler remained with Matzelsberger while his wife, Anna, grew sicker and died on 6 April 1883. The next month, on 22 May at a ceremony in Braunau with fellow customs officials as witnesses, Hitler, 45, married Matzelsberger, 21. He then legitimized his son as Alois Hitler Jr., later a Berlin restaurateur. Matzelsberger went to Vienna to give birth to Angela Hitler. When she was still only 23, she acquired a lung disorder and became too ill to function. She was moved to Ranshofen, a small village near Braunau. \n\nIn 1876, three years after Alois married Anna Glasl-Hörer, he hired Klara Pölzl as a household servant. She was the 16-year-old granddaughter of his step-uncle (and possible father or biological uncle) Nepomuk. Matzelsberger demanded that the \"servant girl\" Klara find another job, and Hitler sent Pölzl away. During the last months of Matzelsberger's life, Klara Pölzl returned to the home of Alois to look after the invalid and their two children. Matzelsberger died in Ranshofen on 10 August 1884 at the age of 23. After her death, Pölzl remained in Hitler's home as housekeeper. \n\nPölzl was soon pregnant by Alois. If Johann Nepomuk was the father of Alois, Klara was the half-niece of Alois; if Johann Georg was his father, she was his first cousin once removed. Smith writes that if Hitler had been free to do as he wished, he would have married Pölzl immediately, but because of the affidavit concerning his paternity, Hitler was now legally Pölzl's first cousin once removed, too close to marry. He submitted an appeal to the church for a humanitarian waiver. Permission came, and on 7 January 1885 a wedding was held at Hitler's rented rooms on the top floor of the Pommer Inn. A meal was served for the few guests and witnesses. Hitler then went to work for the rest of the day. Even Klara found the wedding to be a short ceremony. Throughout the marriage, she continued to call him \"uncle\".\n\nOn 17 May 1885, five months after the wedding, the new Frau Klara Hitler gave birth to her first child, Gustav. A year later, on 25 September 1886, she gave birth to a daughter, Ida. During the winter of 1887–8, diphtheria struck the Hitler household, resulting in the deaths of both Gustav (8 December) and Ida (2 January). Klara and Alois had been married for three years, and all their children were dead, but Alois still had the children from his relationship with Matzelsberger, Alois Jr. and Angela. On 20 April 1889, Klara gave birth to Adolf. Recent research indicates that Otto Hitler, a brother of Adolf Hitler's long thought to have been born in 1887, may have been born three years after, on June 17, 1892. He died of hydrocephalus shortly after birth.\n\nAdolf was a sickly child, and his mother fretted over him. Alois, who was 51 when Adolf was born, had little interest in child rearing and left it all to his wife. When not at work he was either in a tavern or busy with his hobby: keeping bees. In 1892, Alois was transferred from Braunau to Passau. He was 55, Klara 32, Alois Jr. 10, Angela 9, and Adolf 3 years old. In 1894, Alois Hitler was reassigned to Linz. Klara gave birth to their fifth child, Edmund, on 24 March 1894, and it was decided that she and the children would stay in Passau for the time being.\n\nIn February 1895, Alois Hitler purchased a house on a 3.6 hectare (9-acre) plot in Hafeld near Lambach, approximately 50 kilometers (30 miles) southwest of Linz. The farm was called the Rauscher Gut. He moved his family to the farm and retired on 25 June 1895 at the age of 58 after 40 years in the customs service. He found farming difficult; he lost money, and the value of the property declined. On 21 January 1896, Paula was born. Alois was often home with his family. He had five children ranging in age from infancy to 14; Smith suggests he yelled at the children almost continually and made long visits to the local tavern. Robert G. L. Waite noted, \"Even one of his closest friends admitted that Alois was 'awfully rough' with his wife [Klara] and 'hardly ever spoke a word to her at home.'\" If Hitler was in a bad mood, he picked on the older children or Klara herself, in front of the rest.\n\nAfter Alois and Alois Jr had a violent argument, Alois Jr left home at 14, and the elder Alois swore he would never give the boy a penny of inheritance beyond what the law required. Apparently Alois Jr's relations with his stepmother Klara were also strained. After working as an apprentice waiter in the Shelbourne Hotel in Dublin, Ireland, Alois Jr was arrested for theft and served a five-month sentence in 1900, followed by a nine-month sentence in 1902.\n\nEdmund, the youngest Hitler boy, died of measles on 2 February 1900. Alois wanted his son Adolf to seek a career in the civil service. However, Adolf had become so alienated from his father that he was repulsed by whatever Alois wanted. Adolf sneered at the thought of a lifetime spent enforcing petty rules. Alois tried to browbeat his son into obedience while Adolf did his best to be the opposite of whatever his father wanted.\n\nAlois Hitler died in 1903, leaving Klara a government pension. She sold the house in Leonding and moved with young Adolf and Paula to an apartment in Linz, where they lived frugally. By 1907, Klara had fallen very ill due to breast cancer. Adolf cried when told by her doctor Eduard Bloch that his mother \"had little chance of surviving\". Despite continued medical treatment by Dr. Bloch, Klara's condition did not improve and in October, he told Adolf her condition was hopeless. Klara died at home in Linz on 21 December 1907. Adolf and Paula were left with some financial support from their mother's pension and her modest estate of about 2,000 Kronen, after the medical and funeral costs were paid. Klara was buried in Leonding. Hitler had a close relationship with his mother during her lifetime. He was crushed by her death and carried the grief for the rest of his life. Speaking of Hitler, Bloch later recalled that after Klara's death he had never seen \"anyone so prostrate with grief\". Hitler wrote years later that his mother's death was a \" 'dreadful blow' \".\n\nOn 14 September 1903 Angela Hitler, Adolf's half-sister, married Leo Raubal (11 June 1879 – 10 August 1910), a junior tax inspector, and on 12 October 1906 she gave birth to a son, Leo. On 4 June 1908 Angela gave birth to Geli and in 1910 to a second daughter, Elfriede (Elfriede Maria Hochegger, 10 January 1910 – 24 September 1993).\n\nIn 1909, Alois Hitler Jr. met an Irishwoman by the name of Bridget Dowling at the Dublin Horse Show. They eloped to London and married on 3 June 1910. William Dowling, Bridget's father, threatened to have Alois arrested for kidnapping, but Bridget dissuaded him. The couple settled in Liverpool, where their son William Patrick Hitler was born in 1911. The family lived in a flat at 102 Upper Stanhope Street. The house was destroyed in the last German air-raid on Liverpool on 10 January 1942. Nothing remains of the house or those that surrounded it, and the area was eventually cleared and grassed over. Bridget Dowling's memoirs claim Hitler lived with them in Liverpool from 1912 to 1913 while he was on the run to avoid being conscripted in his native Austria-Hungary, but most historians dismiss this story as a fiction invented to make the book more appealing to publishers. Alois attempted to make money by running a small restaurant in Dale Street, a boarding house on Parliament Street and a hotel on Mount Pleasant, all of which failed. Alois Jr. left his family in May 1914 and he returned alone to the German Empire to establish himself in the safety-razor business.\n\nPaula had moved to Vienna, where she worked as a secretary. She did not have contact with Hitler during the period comprising his difficult years as a painter in Vienna and later Munich, military service during the First World War and early political activities back in Munich. She was delighted to meet him again in Vienna during the early 1920s, though she later claimed to have been privately distraught at his subsequent rising fame.\n\nWhen the First World War broke out, Alois Jr. was stranded in Germany and it was impossible for his wife and son to join him. He married another woman, Hedwig Heidemann (or Hedwig Mickley), in 1916. After the war, a third party informed Bridget that he was dead.\n\nAt the outbreak of the First World War, Adolf Hitler was a resident of Munich and volunteered to serve in the Bavarian Army as an Austrian citizen. Posted to the Bavarian Reserve Infantry Regiment 16 (1st Company of the List Regiment). Hitler's case was not exceptional as he was not the only Austrian soldier in the List Regiment. It is likely Hitler was accepted into the Bavarian army either simply because nobody had asked him whether he was a German citizen when he first volunteered or because the recruiting authorities were happy to accept any volunteer and simply did not care what Hitler's nationality was, or because he might have told the Bavarian authorities that he intended to become a German citizen.\n\nHe served as a dispatch runner on the Western Front in France and Belgium, spending nearly half his time well behind the front lines. He was present at the First Battle of Ypres, the Battle of the Somme, the Battle of Arras and the Battle of Passchendaele, and was wounded at the Somme.\n\nHe was decorated for bravery, receiving the Iron Cross, Second Class, in 1914. Recommended by Hugo Gutmann, he received the Iron Cross, First Class, on 4 August 1918, a decoration rarely awarded to one of Hitler's rank (\"Gefreiter\"). Hitler's post at regimental headquarters, providing frequent interactions with senior officers, may have helped him receive this decoration. Though his rewarded actions may have been courageous, they were probably not highly exceptional. He also received the Black Wound Badge on 18 May 1918.\n\nDuring his service at the headquarters, Hitler pursued his artwork, drawing cartoons, and instructions for an army newspaper. During the Battle of the Somme in October 1916, he was wounded either in the groin area or the left thigh by a shell that had exploded in the dispatch runners' dugout.\n\nHitler spent almost two months in the Red Cross hospital at Beelitz, returning to his regiment on 5 March 1917. On 15 October 1918, he was temporarily blinded by a mustard gas attack and was hospitalised in Pasewalk. While there, Hitler learnt of Germany's defeat, and—by his own account—on receiving this news, he suffered a second bout of blindness.\n\nHitler became embittered over the collapse of the war effort, and his ideological development began to firmly take shape. He described the war as \"the greatest of all experiences\", and was praised by his commanding officers for his bravery. The experience reinforced his passionate German patriotism and he was shocked by Germany's capitulation in November 1918. Like other German nationalists, he believed in the \"Dolchstoßlegende\" (stab-in-the-back legend), which claimed that the German army, \"undefeated in the field\", had been \"stabbed in the back\" on the home front by civilian leaders and Marxists, later dubbed the \"November criminals\".\n\nThe Treaty of Versailles stipulated that Germany must relinquish several of its territories and demilitarise the Rhineland. The treaty imposed economic sanctions and levied heavy reparations on the country. Many Germans perceived the treaty—especially Article 231, which declared Germany responsible for the war—as a humiliation. The Versailles Treaty and the economic, social, and political conditions in Germany after the war were later exploited by Hitler for political gains.\n\nOn 14 March 1920, Heinrich \"Heinz\" Hitler was born to Alois Jr and his second wife, Hedwig Heidemann. In 1924, Alois Jr was prosecuted for bigamy, but acquitted due to Bridget's intervention on his behalf. His older son, William Patrick, stayed with Alois and his new family during his early trips to Weimar Republic Germany in the late 1920s and early 1930s.\n\nWhen Adolf was confined in Landsberg, Angela made the trip from Vienna to visit him. Angela's daughters, Geli and Elfriede, accompanied their mother when she became Hitler's housekeeper in 1925; Geli Raubal was 17 at the time and would spend the next six years in close contact with her half-uncle. Her mother was given a position as housekeeper at the Berghof villa near Berchtesgaden in 1928. Geli moved into Hitler's Munich apartment in 1929 when she enrolled in the Ludwig Maximilian University to study medicine. She did not complete her medical studies.\n\nAs he rose to power as leader of the Nazi Party, Hitler kept a tight rein over his half-niece and behaved in a domineering and possessive manner. When he discovered she was having a relationship with his chauffeur, Emil Maurice, he forced an end to the affair and dismissed Maurice from his personal service. After that he did not allow her to freely associate with friends, and attempted to have himself or someone he trusted near her at all times, accompanying her on shopping trips, to the movies, and to the opera.\n\nAdolf met Eva Braun, 23 years his junior, at Heinrich Hoffmann's photography studio in Munich in October 1929. He occasionally dated other women as well, including Hoffmann's daughter, Henrietta, and Maria Reiter.\n\nHitler's half-niece Geli Raubal took her own life in 1931. Rumours immediately began in the media about a possible sexual relationship, and even murder. Historian Ian Kershaw contends that stories circulated at the time as to alleged \"sexual deviant practices ought to be viewed as ... anti-Hitler propaganda\".\n\nAfter having little contact with her brother Adolf, Paula was delighted to meet him again in Vienna during the early 1930s. By her own account, after losing a job with a Viennese insurance company in 1930 when her employers found out who she was, Paula received financial support from her brother (which continued until his suicide in late April 1945). She lived under the assumed family name \"Wolf\" at Hitler's request (this was a childhood nickname of his which he had also used during the 1920s for security purposes) and worked sporadically. She later claimed to have seen her brother about once a year during the 1930s and early 1940s.\n\nWhen the NSDAP won 107 seats in the Reich parliament in 1930, the \"Times Union\" in Albany, NY, published a statement of Alois Jr.\n\nIn 1934, Alois Jr. established a restaurant in Berlin which became a popular meeting place for SA Stormtroopers. He managed to keep the restaurant open through the duration of World War II.\n\nAngela strongly disapproved of Adolf's relationship with Eva Braun; she eventually left Berchtesgaden as a result and moved to Dresden. Hitler broke off relations with Angela and did not attend her second wedding. On 20 January 1936 she married German architect Professor Martin Hammitzsch, the Director of the State School of Building Construction in Dresden.\n\nAs Hitler led Germany into the Second World War, he became distant from his family. Angela and Adolf became estranged after she disapproved of Adolf's relationship with Eva Braun, but eventually re-established contact during the war. Angela was his intermediary to the rest of the family, because Adolf did not want contact. In 1941, she sold her memoirs of her years with Hitler to the Eher Verlag, which brought her 20,000 Reichsmark. Meanwhile, Alois Jr. continued to manage his restaurant throughout the duration of the war. He was arrested by the British, but released when it became clear he had played no role in his brother's regime.\n\nA couple of Adolf's relatives served in Nazi Germany during the war. Adolf's nephew Heinz was a member of the Nazi Party. He attended an elite military academy, the National Political Institutes of Education (Napola) in Ballenstedt/Saxony-Anhalt. Aspiring to be an officer, Heinz joined the \"Heer\" (army) as a signals NCO with the 23rd Potsdamer Artillery Regiment in 1941, and he participated in the invasion of the Soviet Union, Operation Barbarossa. On 10 January 1942, he was captured by Soviet forces and sent to the Moscow military prison Butyrka, where he died, aged 21, after interrogation and torture. He never married nor had children.\n\nAdolf's other nephew, Leo Rudolf Raubal, was conscripted into the Luftwaffe. He was injured in January 1943 during the Battle of Stalingrad, and Friedrich Paulus asked Hitler for a plane to evacuate Raubal to Germany. Hitler refused and Raubal was captured by the Soviets on 31 January 1943. Hitler gave orders to check out the possibility of a prisoner exchange with the Soviets for Stalin's son Yakov Dzhugashvili, who was in German captivity since 16 July 1941. Stalin refused to exchange him either for Raubal or for Friedrich Paulus, and said \"war is war.\"\n\nIn the spring of 1945, after the destruction of Dresden in the massive bomb attack of 13/14 February, Adolf moved Angela to Berchtesgaden to avoid her being captured by the Soviets. Also, he let her and his younger sister Paula have over 100,000 Reichsmark. Paula barely saw her brother during the war. There is some evidence Paula shared her brother's strong German nationalist beliefs, but she was not politically active and never joined the Nazi Party. During the closing days of the war, at the age of 49, she was driven to Berchtesgaden, Germany, apparently on the orders of Martin Bormann.\n\nAfter midnight on the night of 28–29 April 1945, Adolf and Eva Braun were married in a small civil ceremony within the \"Führerbunker\" in Berlin. At the same location, on the following day of 30 April, the couple committed suicide.\n\nIn Hitler's last will and testament, he guaranteed Angela a pension of 1,000 Reichsmark monthly. It is uncertain if she ever received any of this amount. Nevertheless, she spoke very highly of him even after the war, and claimed that neither her brother nor she herself had known anything about the Holocaust. She declared that if Hitler had known what was going on in the concentration camps, he would have stopped them.\n\nAdolf's sister Paula was arrested by US intelligence officers in May 1945 and debriefed later that year. A transcript shows one of the agents remarking she bore a physical resemblance to her sibling. She told them the Russians had confiscated her house in Austria, the Americans had expropriated her Vienna apartment and that she was taking English lessons. She characterized her childhood relationship with her brother as one of both constant bickering and strong affection. Paula said she could not bring herself to believe her brother had been responsible for the Holocaust. She also told them she had met Eva Braun only once. Paula was released from American custody and returned to Vienna, where she lived on her savings for a time, then worked in an arts and crafts shop.\n\nOther relatives of Hitler were approached by the Soviets. In May 1945, five of Hitler's relatives were arrested, his first cousins, Maria, Johann and Eduard Schmidt, along with Maria's husband Ignaz Koppensteiner, their son Adolf, and Johann Schmidt Jr., son of Maria and Eduard's deceased brother Johann. Koppensteiner was arrested by the Soviets on the basis that he \"approved of [Hitler's] criminal plans against the USSR.\" He died in a Moscow prison in 1949. Both Eduard and Maria died in Soviet custody in 1951 and 1953, respectively. Johann Jr. was released in 1955. These relatives were posthumously pardoned by Russia in 1997.\n\nIn 1952, Paula Hitler moved to Berchtesgaden, reportedly living \"in seclusion\" in a two-room flat as Paula Wolff. (\"Wolf\" was Adolf Hitler's self-adopted nickname.) During this time, she was looked after by former members of the SS and survivors of her brother's inner circle. In February 1959, she agreed to be interviewed by Peter Morley, a documentary producer for British television station Associated-Rediffusion. The resulting conversation was the only filmed interview she ever gave and was broadcast as part of a programme called \"Tyranny: The Years of Adolf Hitler\". She talked mostly about Hitler's childhood. Angela died of a stroke on 30 October 1949. Her brother, Alois Jr., died on 20 May 1956 in Hamburg. At that time, his name was Alois Hiller. Paula, Adolf's last surviving sibling, died on 1 June 1960, at the age of 64.\n\nIt is alleged that Hitler had a son, Jean-Marie Loret, with a Frenchwoman named Charlotte Lobjoie. Jean-Marie Loret was born in March 1918 and died in 1985, aged 67. Loret married several times, and had up to nine children. His family's lawyer has suggested that, if their descent from Hitler could be proven, they may be able to claim royalties for Hitler's book, \"Mein Kampf\". However, several historians such as Anton Joachimsthaler, and Sir Ian Kershaw, say that Hitler's paternity is unlikely or impossible to prove.\n\nAngela married Leo Raubal Sr. (1879–1910). They had three children: Leo Rudolf Raubal Jr had one son, Peter Raubal, in 1931; Geli Raubal committed suicide without having ever had a child in 1931; and Elfriede Raubal who married Ernst Hochegger in 1937 and had a son, Heiner Hochegger, in 1945 and a daughter.\n\nHeinz, who was the son of Alois from his second marriage, died in a Soviet military prison in 1942 without children. William Patrick, the son of Alois was his first marriage, married Phyllis Jean-Jacques in 1947 in the US, where they had four children. Also in that year, he changed his surname to Stuart-Houston; some have commented on its similarity with the name of the British anti-semitic writer Houston Stewart Chamberlain. Their children, Alexander Adolf Stuart-Houston (1949), Louis Stuart-Houston (1951), Howard Ronald Stuart-Houston (1957), and Brian William Stuart-Houston (1965) have all had no children;. Only Howard, who died in a car crash in 1989, was ever married.\n\nAccording to David Gardner, author of the \"Last of the Hitlers\": \"They didn’t sign a pact, but what they did is, they talked amongst themselves, talked about the burden they’ve had in the background of their lives, and decided that none of them would marry, none of them would have children. And that’s...a pact they’ve kept to this day.\" Though none of Stuart-Houston's sons had children, his son Alexander, now a social worker, said that contrary to this speculation, there was no pact to intentionally end the Hitler bloodline.\n\n\nNote: For simplicity, the first (childless) marriage of Alois Hitler (b. 1837) to Anna Glasl-Hörer has been excluded, as have any marriages that may have occurred after 1945.\nNote: For simplicity, the second marriages after 1945 of Ilse and Gretl have been excluded.\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "548341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548341", "title": "Jacob Broom", "text": "Jacob Broom\n\nJacob Broom (October 17, 1752 – April 25, 1810) was an American businessperson and politician from Wilmington, in New Castle County, Delaware. As a delegate to the U.S. Constitutional Convention of 1787, he was a signer of the United States Constitution. He was also appointed as a delegate to the Annapolis Convention (1786) but did not attend, and he served in the Delaware General Assembly. He was the father of Congressman James M. Broom and grandfather of Congressman Jacob Broom.\n\nHis father was James Broom, a blacksmith turned prosperous farmer, and his mother was Esther Willis, a Quaker. In 1773 he married Rachel Pierce, and together they raised eight children.\n\nDespite his lack of involvement in national politics prior to the Constitutional Convention, Broom was a dedicated supporter of strong central government. When George Washington visited Wilmington in 1783, Broom urged him to \"contribute your advice and influence to promote that harmony and union of our infant governments which are so essential to the permanent establishment of our freedom, happiness and prosperity.\"\n\nBroom carried these opinions with him to Philadelphia, where he consistently voted for measures that would assure a powerful government responsive to the needs of the states. He favored a nine-year term for members of the Senate, where the states would be equally represented. He wanted the state legislatures to pay their representatives in Congress, which, in turn, would have the power to veto state laws. He also sought to vest state legislatures with the power to select presidential electors, and he wanted the President to hold office for life. Broom faithfully attended the sessions of the Convention in Philadelphia, and spoke out several times on issues that he considered crucial, but he left most of the speechmaking to more influential and experienced delegates. Georgia delegate William Pierce described him as \"a plain good Man, with some abilities, but nothing to render him conspicuous. He is silent in public, but cheerful and conversable in private.\"\n\nAfter the convention, Broom returned to Wilmington, where in 1795 he erected a home near Brandywine Creek on the outskirts of the city. Broom's primary interest remained in local government. In addition to continuing his service in Wilmington's government, he became the city's first postmaster (1790–92).\n\nFor many years, he chaired the board of directors of Wilmington's Delaware Bank. He also operated a cotton mill, as well as a machine shop that produced and repaired mill machinery. He sold his mill property in 1802 to the DuPonts and it became the center of the DuPont manufacturing empire. Broom was also involved in an unsuccessful scheme to mine bog iron ore. A further interest was internal improvements: toll roads, canals, and bridges. A letter to his son James in 1794 touches upon a number of these pursuits.\n\nBroom also found time for philanthropic and religious activities. His long-standing affiliation with the Old Academy led him to become involved in its reorganization into the College of Wilmington, and to serve on the college's first Board of Trustees. Broom was also deeply involved in his community's religious affairs as a lay leader of the Old Swedes Church.\n\nHe died at the age of 57 in 1810 while in Philadelphia on business and was buried there at Christ Church Burial Ground. A cenotaph was placed in his honor at the Christ Episcopal Church by the Delaware State Society, NSDAR, in 1987.\n\nHis home near the Brandywine, the Jacob Broom House, was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1974.\n\nBroom Street in Madison, Wisconsin is named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "368418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368418", "title": "Jeffrey Sachs", "text": "Jeffrey Sachs\n\nJeffrey David Sachs (; born November 5, 1954) is an American economist, public policy analyst, and former director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University, where he holds the title of University Professor, the highest rank Columbia bestows on its faculty. He is known as one of the world's leading experts on economic development and the fight against poverty.\n\nSachs is the Quetelet Professor of Sustainable Development at Columbia's School of International and Public Affairs and a professor of health policy and management at Columbia's School of Public Health. As of 2017, he serves as special adviser to the United Nations (UN) Secretary-General António Guterres on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of 17 global goals adopted at a UN summit meeting in September 2015. He held the same position under the previous UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon and prior to 2016 a similar advisory position related to the earlier Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), eight internationally sanctioned objectives to reduce extreme poverty, hunger and disease by the year 2015. In connection with the MDGs, he had first been appointed special adviser to the UN Secretary-General in 2002 during the term of Kofi Annan.\n\nIn 1995, Sachs became a member of the International Advisory Council of the Center for Social and Economic Research (CASE). He is co-founder and chief strategist of Millennium Promise Alliance, a nonprofit organization dedicated to ending extreme poverty and hunger. From 2002 to 2006, he was director of the United Nations Millennium Project's work on the MDGs. He is director of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network and co-editor of the World Happiness Report with John F. Helliwell and Richard Layard. In 2010, he became a commissioner for the Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development, whose stated aim is to boost the importance of broadband in international policy. Sachs has written several books and received many awards.\n\nSachs was raised in Oak Park, a suburb of Detroit, Michigan, the son of Joan (née Abrams) and Theodore Sachs, a labor lawyer. He graduated from Oak Park High School and attended Harvard College, where he received his bachelor of arts \"summa cum laude\" in 1976. He went on to receive his MA and Ph.D. in economics from Harvard with his thesis titled \"Factor Costs and Macroeconomic Adjustment in the Open Economy: Theory and Evidence\", and was invited to join the Harvard Society of Fellows while still a Harvard graduate student.\n\nIn 1980 he joined the Harvard faculty as an assistant professor and was promoted to associate professor in 1982. A year later, at the age of 28, Sachs became a full professor of economics with tenure at Harvard.\n\nDuring the next 19 years at Harvard, he became the Galen L. Stone Professor of International Trade, director of the Harvard Institute for International Development at the Kennedy School of Government (1995–1999), and director of the Center for International Development (1999–2002).\n\nFrom 2002 to 2016 Sachs served as director of the Earth Institute of Columbia University, a university-wide organization of more than 850 professionals from natural science and social science disciplines, with a common mission to address complex issues facing the Earth, in support of sustainable development. Sachs's classes are taught at the School of International and Public Affairs and the Mailman School of Public Health, and his course \"Challenges of Sustainable Development\" is taught at the undergraduate level.\n\nSachs has consistently advocated for the expansion of university education on sustainable development. He helped to introduce the Ph.D. in sustainable development at Columbia University, one of the first Ph.D. programs of its kind in the U.S., and championed the new Masters of Development Practice (MDP), which led to a consortium of major universities around the world offering the new degree. The Earth Institute also guided the adoption of sustainable development as a new major at Columbia College.\n\nSachs's policy and academic works span the challenges of globalization, and include the relationship of trade and economic growth, the resource curse and extractive industries, public health and economic development, economic geography, strategies of economic reform, international financial markets, macroeconomic policy, global competitiveness, climate change, and the end of poverty. He has written or co-authored hundreds of scholarly articles and several books, including three bestsellers and a textbook on macroeconomics.\n\nIn 2011 Sachs called for the creation of a third U.S. political party, the Alliance for the Radical Center.\n\nSachs has worked as an economic adviser to governments in Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the former Soviet Union. A trained macroeconomist, he advised a number of national governments in the transition from communism or developmentalism to market economies.\n\nIn 1985, when Bolivia was shifting from a dictatorship to a democracy through national elections, Sachs was invited by the party of Bolivian dictator Hugo Banzer to advise him on an anti-inflation economic plan to implement once he was voted to office. This stabilization plan centered around price deregulation, particularly for oil, as well as cuts to the national budget. Sachs stated that his plan could end Bolivian hyperinflation, which had reached up to 14,000%, in a single day. Though Banzer ultimately lost the race to the party of former elected president and traditionally developmentalist Victor Paz Estenssoro, Sachs's plan was still implemented through plans that excluded most of Paz's cabinet. Inflation quickly stabilized in Bolivia.\n\nIn 1989 Sachs advised Poland's anticommunist Solidarity movement and the government of Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki. He wrote a comprehensive plan for the transition from central planning to a market economy, which became incorporated into Poland's reform program led by Finance Minister Leszek Balcerowicz. Sachs was the main architect of Poland's successful debt reduction operation. Sachs and IMF economist David Lipton advised the rapid conversion of all property and assets from public to private ownership. Closure of many uncompetitive factories ensued. In Poland, Sachs was firmly on the side of rapid transition to \"normal\" capitalism. At first he proposed U.S.-style corporate structures, with professional managers answering to many shareholders and a large economic role for stock markets. That did not bode well with the Polish authorities, but he then proposed that large blocks of the shares of privatized companies be placed in the hands of private banks. As a result, there were some economic shortages and inflation, but prices in Poland eventually stabilized. The government of Poland awarded Sachs with one of its highest honors in 1999, the Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit. He also received an honorary doctorate from the Cracow University of Economics.\n\nSachs's ideas and methods of transition from central planning were adopted throughout the transition economies. He advised Slovenia (1991) and Estonia (1992) in the introduction of new stable and convertible currencies. Based on Poland's success, he was invited first by Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev and then by Russian president Boris Yeltsin on the transition to a market economy. He served as adviser to Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar and Finance Minister Boris Federov during 1991–93 on macroeconomic policies.\n\nMore recently, Sachs has turned to global issues of economic development, poverty alleviation, health and aid policy, and environmental sustainability. He has written extensively on climate change, disease control, and globalization. Since 1995, he has been engaged in efforts to alleviate poverty in Africa.\n\nIn his 2005 work, \"The End of Poverty\", Sachs wrote, \"Africa's governance is poor because Africa is poor.\" According to Sachs, with the right policies and key interventions, extreme poverty—defined as living on less than $1 a day—can be eradicated within 20 years. India and China serve as examples, with the latter lifting 300 million people out of extreme poverty during the last two decades. Sachs has said that a key element to accomplishing this is raising aid from $65 billion in 2002 to $195 billion a year by 2015. He emphasizes the role of geography and climate, as much of Africa is landlocked and disease-prone. However, he stresses that these problems can be overcome.\n\nSachs suggests that with improved seeds, irrigation, and fertilizer, the crop yields in Africa and other places with subsistence farming can be increased from 1 ton per hectare to 3 to 5 tons per hectare. He reasons that increased harvests would significantly increase the income of subsistence farmers, thereby reducing poverty. Sachs does not believe that increased aid is the only solution. He also supports establishing credit and microloan programs, which are often lacking in impoverished areas. Sachs advocates the distribution of free insecticide-treated bed nets to combat malaria. The economic impact of malaria has been estimated to cost Africa $12 billion per year. Sachs estimates that malaria can be controlled for $3 billion per year, thus suggesting that anti-malaria projects would be an economically justified investment.\n\nThe Millennium Villages Project, which he directs, operates in more than a dozen African countries and covers more than 500,000 people. The MVP has engendered considerable controversy associated as critics have questioned both the design of the project and claims made for its success. In 2012 \"The Economist\" reviewed the project and concluded \"the evidence does not yet support the claim that the millennium villages project is making a decisive impact.\" Critics have pointed to the failure to include suitable controls that would allow an accurate determination of whether the Projects methods were responsible for any observed gains in economic development. A 2012 \"Lancet\" paper claiming a 3-fold increase in the rate of decline in childhood mortality was criticized for flawed methodology, and the authors later admitted that the claim was \"unwarranted and misleading\".\n\nSachs works closely with the Islamic Development Bank to scale up programs of integrated rural development and sustainable agriculture among the bank's member countries. One such project supports pastoralist communities in Eastern Africa, with six participating nations: Djibouti, Ethiopia, Somalia, Kenya, Uganda, and South Sudan.\n\nFollowing the adoption of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), in 2000, Sachs was among the leading academic scholars and practitioners on the MDGs. He chaired the WHO Commission on Macroeconomics and Health (2000–01), which played a pivotal role in scaling up the financing of health care and disease control in the low-income countries to support MDGs 4, 5, and 6. He worked with UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2000–2001 to design and launch The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. He also worked with senior officials of the George W. Bush administration to develop the PEPFAR program to fight HIV/AIDS, and the PMI to fight malaria. On behalf of Annan, from 2002 to 2006 he chaired the UN Millennium Project, which was tasked with developing a concrete action plan to achieve the MDGs. The UN General Assembly adopted the key recommendations of the UN Millennium Project at a special session in September 2005. The recommendations for rural Africa are currently being implemented and documented in the Millennium Villages, and in several national scale-up efforts such as in Nigeria.\n\nPresently a special adviser to secretary-general António Guterres, Sachs is an advocate for the 2015 Sustainable Development Goals, which build upon and supersede the MDGs.\n\nIn his capacity as a special adviser at the UN, Sachs has frequently met with foreign dignitaries and heads of state. He developed a friendship with international celebrities Bono and Angelina Jolie, who traveled to Africa with Sachs to witness the progress of the Millennium Villages.\n\nSachs has consistently criticised the International Monetary Fund and its policies around the world, and blamed international bankers for what he claims is a pattern of ineffective investment strategies.\n\nDuring the Greek government-debt crisis in July 2015, Sachs, with Heiner Flassbeck, Thomas Piketty, Dani Rodrik and Simon Wren-Lewis, published an open letter to the Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, regarding Greek debt.\n\nSachs is one of the founders of the Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project.\n\nIn April 2018, he supported President Trump's view that the United States should come out of Syria \"very soon,\" adding: \"It’s long past time for the United States to end its destructive military engagement in Syria and across the Middle East, though the security state seems unlikely to let this happen.\"\n\nSachs's economic philosophies have been the subject of both praise and criticism. One of Sachs's strongest critics is William Easterly, a professor of economics at New York University. Easterly reproached \"The End of Poverty\" in his review for \"The Washington Post\", and Easterly's 2006 book \"White Man's Burden\" is a response to Sachs's argument that poor countries are stuck in a \"poverty trap\" from which there is no escape except by massively scaled-up foreign aid. Sachs himself has emphasized the need for a multifaceted approach to economic development, of which increased and responsible foreign aid is nearly always a necessary part. Easterly presents statistical evidence that he claims proves that many emerging markets attained their higher status without the large amounts of foreign aid Sachs proposes.\n\nNina Munk, author of the 2013 book \"The Idealist: Jeffrey Sachs and the Quest to End Poverty\", says that poverty eradication projects endorsed by Sachs, although well intended, have - years later - \"left people even worse off than before\". Author Paul Theroux, commenting on Sachs's $120 million effort to aid Africa, says these temporary measures failed to create sustaining improvements but only \"created dependence\".\n\nSachs lives in New York City with his wife Sonia Ehrlich Sachs, a pediatrician. They have three children: Lisa, Adam, and Hannah Sachs.\n\nIn 2015 Sachs was awarded the Blue Planet Prize for his contributions to solving global environmental problems. In 2004 and 2005 he was named one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World by \"Time Magazine\". He was also named one of the \"500 Most Influential People in the Field of Foreign Policy\" by the World Affairs Councils of America.\n\nIn 2005 he received the Sargent Shriver Award for Equal Justice. In 2007 Sachs was awarded the Padma Bhushan, the third highest civilian honor bestowed by the government of India. Also in 2007, he received the Cardozo Journal of Conflict Resolution International Advocate for Peace Award and the Centennial Medal from the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences for his contributions to society.\n\nIn 2007 Sachs received the S. Roger Horchow Award for Greatest Public Service by a Private Citizen, an award given out annually by Jefferson Awards.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2001, Sachs was chairman of the Commission on Macroeconomics and Health of the World Health Organization, and from 1999 to 2000 he served as a member of the International Financial Institution Advisory Commission established by the U.S. Congress. Sachs has been an adviser to the World Bank, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the World Health Organization, the International Monetary Fund, and the United Nations Development Program. He is a member of the Institute of Medicine, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Harvard Society of Fellows, the Fellows of the World Econometric Society, the Brookings Panel of Economists, the National Bureau of Economic Research, and the Board of Advisers of the Chinese Economists Society, among other international organizations. Sachs is first holder of the Royal Professor Ungku Aziz Chair in Poverty Studies at the Centre for Poverty and Development Studies at the University of Malaya in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia for 2007–09. He holds an honorary professorship at the Universidad del Pacifico in Peru. He has lectured at the London School of Economics, the University of Oxford, and Yale University, and in Tel Aviv and Jakarta.\n\nIn September 2008 \"Vanity Fair\" magazine ranked Sachs 98th on its list of 100 members of the New Establishment. In July 2009 Sachs became a member of the SNV Netherlands Development Organisation's International Advisory Board. In 2009 Princeton University's American Whig-Cliosophic Society awarded Sachs the James Madison Award for Distinguished Public Service.\n\nSachs has received honorary degrees from Bryant University, the College of the Atlantic, Connecticut College, Cracow University of Economics in Poland, Iona College, Lehigh University, the Lingnan College of Hong Kong, McGill University, the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Ohio Wesleyan University, Pace University, St. John's University, Simon Fraser University, Southern Methodist University, Southern New Hampshire University, the State University of New York, University of Brescia in Italy, University of St. Gallen in Switzerland, the University of Economics Varna in Bulgaria, Ursinus College, Whitman College and the University of Michigan.\n\nSachs has written hundreds of academic articles and many books, including three New York Times bestsellers: \"\" (Penguin, 2005), \"Common Wealth: Economics for a Crowded Planet\" (Penguin, 2008), and \"The Price of Civilization: Reawakening American Virtue and Prosperity\" (Random House, 2011). His \"Building the New American Economy\" was published in 2017.\n\nHe writes a monthly foreign affairs column for Project Syndicate, a nonprofit association of newspapers around the world that is circulated in 145 countries. He is also a frequent contributor to such major publications as the \"Financial Times\", \"Scientific American\", \"Time Magazine\", and \"The Huffington Post\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36052520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36052520", "title": "Jerry Beisler", "text": "Jerry Beisler\n\nJerry Beisler is the author of \"The Bandit of Kabul\", a non-fiction, counter-culture history of the 1970s and a famous cannabis breeder.\n\nBeisler attended Indiana University, San Francisco State, and Mexico City College. Beisler was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1942. He was raised in the Miller Beach section of Gary, Indiana. He graduated from Wirt High School where he was Class Vice President and a multi-sport athlete. Beisler’s brother randy played in the National Football League for 11 years.\nBeisler wrote editorial page commentary, Hawaiian history features and traveling articles for \"The Garden Island\" newspaper from 1989–1995 and occasionally contributed the same to the \"Honolulu Star Bulletin\" and the \"Kauai Times\". \nBeisler also wrote video and music reviews for the \"Chico News and Review\".\n\nBeisler also created and produced \"The Cutting Edge\" Television show from 1999-2006. The show won the \"Best Entertainment\" award for the Public Access Television in 2002, beating over 500 entries for the prize. \nBeisler also produced hundreds of studio and \"live\" music recordings. He promoted shows in many musical genres exemplified by Jazz (The Yellow Jackets) Rock (Fleetwood Mac, Crosby, Stills, and Nash) Americana (Los Lobos, Rodney Crowell) Blues (Howlin’ Wolf, Mike Bloomfield) and Reggae (The Iytals). For credits and business in music and television Beisler was known as Jerry B.\n\nBeisler Published two books of poetry for Print Mint Press (Mother Asia and Cousin California and St. Elvis) plus one for Raindance Publishing (Hawaiian Life).\n\nJerry is the original Creator of the famous American strain called California Orange, he bred that strain in 1973. October 2013 Regent Press released \" The Berkeley years and Best of Collection\"; all of Beisler's recent published work plus a compilation of his best free lance work.\n"}
{"id": "16966209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16966209", "title": "Jimmy Adamson (Scottish footballer)", "text": "Jimmy Adamson (Scottish footballer)\n\nJames Adamson (born 1920s) was a Scottish professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper. Adamson was playing as a seventeen-year-old for junior side Dundee Violet when he signed for Dundee United in August 1944. Playing ten times that season, Adamson was loaned out to Brechin City the following season and was called up for military service before being released in April 1947. It is unknown where he went after this.\n"}
{"id": "60195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60195", "title": "Karmapa", "text": "Karmapa\n\nThe Karmapa (honorific title \"His Holiness the Gyalwa\" (རྒྱལ་བ་, Victorious One) \"Karmapa\", more formally as \"Gyalwang\" (རྒྱལ་དབང་ཀརྨ་པ་, King of Victorious Ones) \"Karmapa\", and informally as the \"Karmapa Lama\") is the head of the Karma Kagyu, the largest sub-school of the Kagyu (བཀའ་བརྒྱུད, ), itself one of the four major schools of Tibetan Buddhism. \n\nThe historical seat of the Karmapas is Tsurphu Monastery in the Tolung valley of Tibet. The Karmapa's principal seat in exile is the Dharma Chakra Centre at Rumtek Monastery in Sikkim, India. His regional monastic seats are Karma Triyana Dharmachakra in New York and Dhagpo Kagyu Ling in Dordogne, France.\n\nDue to a controversy within the Karma Kagyu school over the recognition process, the identity of the current 17th Karmapa is disputed by some. See Karmapa controversy for details.\n\nDüsum Khyenpa, 1st Karmapa Lama (, 1110–1193), was a disciple of the Tibetan master Gampopa. A talented child who studied Buddhism with his father from an early age and who sought out great teachers in his twenties and thirties, he is said to have attained enlightenment at the age of fifty while practicing dream yoga. He was henceforth regarded by the contemporary highly respected masters Shakya Śri and Lama Shang as the Karmapa, a manifestation of Avalokiteśvara, whose coming was predicted in the \"Samadhiraja Sutra\" and the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\".\n\nThe source of the oral lineage, traditionally traced back to the Buddha Vajradhara, was transmitted to the Indian master of mahamudra and tantra called Tilopa (989-1069), through Naropa (1016–1100) to Marpa Lotsawa and Milarepa. These forefathers of the Kagyu (Bka' brGyud) lineage are collectively called the \"Golden Rosary\".\n\nKarma Pakshi, 2nd Karmapa Lama (1204–1283), is often said to be the first person ever recognized and empowered as a tulku (), a reincarnated lama (bla ma).\n\nThe Karmapas are the holders of the Black Crown () and are thus sometimes known as \"the Black Hat Lamas\". This crown ( \"self-arisen crown\"), is traditionally said to have been woven by the dakinis from their hair and given to the Karmapa in recognition of his spiritual realization. The physical crown displayed by the Karmapas was offered to Deshin Shekpa, 5th Karmapa Lama by the Yongle Emperor of China as a material representation of the spiritual one.\n\nThe crown was last known to be located at Rumtek Monastery in Sikkim, the last home of the 16th Karmapa, although that location has been subject to some upheaval since 1993 causing some to worry as to whether or not it is still there. An inventory of items remaining at Rumtek is purported to be something the Indian government is going to undertake in the near future.\n\n\n\n\nThe history of the Karmapa lineage, including biographical details of the historical Karmapas, can be found at the following web sites. Notice that the websites are written to those loyal to one or other of the rival 17th Karmapas, and their accounts of previous incarnations may not be written from a neutral point of view.\n"}
{"id": "4363115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4363115", "title": "Kaushalya Bannerji", "text": "Kaushalya Bannerji\n\nKaushalya Bannerji (born Calcutta) is a Canadian poet.\n\nA resident of Toronto since 1993, Kaushalya Bannerji is the daughter of the respected activist and intellectual Himani Bannerji. In her article: A Lotus of Another Color, she delved with the cultural complexities sexuality adds to one's sense of self, and identity especially coming from a social conservative society. The dilemma is enhanced by the willingness of many lesbians to keep their cultural identity and roots, while confronting the jaundiced opinions of sexuality from the individual's societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "653533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=653533", "title": "Kay Francis", "text": "Kay Francis\n\nKatherine Edwina \"Kay\" Francis (née Gibbs, January 13, 1905 – August 26, 1968) was an American stage and film actress. After a brief period on Broadway in the late 1920s, she moved to film and achieved her greatest success between 1930 and 1936, when she was the number one female star at the Warner Brothers studio and the highest-paid American film actress. Some of her film-related material and personal papers are available to scholars and researchers in the Wesleyan University Cinema Archives.\n\nFrancis was born in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Territory (present-day Oklahoma), in 1905. Her parents, Joseph Sprague Gibbs and his actress wife Katharine Clinton Francis, had been married in 1903; however, by the time their daughter was four, Joseph had left the family. Francis inherited her unusual height from her father, who stood 6 feet 4 inches. She was to become Hollywood's tallest leading lady (5 ft 9 in) in the 1930s.\n\nWhile she never discouraged the assumption that her mother was the pioneering American businesswoman who established the \"Katharine Gibbs\" chain of vocational schools, Francis was actually raised in the hardscrabble theatrical circuit of the period. In reality, her mother had been born in Nova Scotia, Canada, and eventually became a moderately successful actress and singer under the stage name Katharine Clinton.\n\nFrancis was often out on the road with her mother, and attended Catholic schools when it was affordable, becoming a student at the Institute of the Holy Angels at age five. After also attending Miss Fuller's School for Young Ladies in Ossining, New York (1919) and the Cathedral School (1920), she enrolled at the Katharine Gibbs Secretarial School in New York City. At age 17, Francis became engaged to a well-to-do Pittsfield, Massachusetts man, James Dwight Francis. Their December 1922 marriage at New York's Saint Thomas Church ended in divorce.\n\nIn the spring of 1925, Francis went to Paris to get a divorce. While there, she was courted by a former Harvard athlete and member of the Boston Bar Association, Bill Gaston. Francis and Gaston saw each other only on occasion; he was in Boston and Francis had decided to follow her mother's footsteps and go on the stage in New York. She made her Broadway debut as the Player Queen in a modern-dress version of Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" in November 1925. Francis claimed she got the part by \"lying a lot, to the right people\". One of the \"right\" people was producer Stuart Walker, who hired Francis to join his Portmanteau Theatre Company, and she soon found herself commuting between Dayton, Indianapolis, and Cincinnati, playing wisecracking secretaries, saucy French floozies, walk-ons, bit parts, and heavies.\n\nBy February 1927, Francis returned to Broadway in the play \"Crime\". Sylvia Sidney, although a teenager at the time, had the lead in \"Crime\" but would later say that Francis stole the show.\n\nAfter Francis' divorce from Gaston, she became engaged to a society playboy, Alan Ryan Jr. She promised Ryan's family that she would not return to the stage – a promise that lasted only a few months before she was back on Broadway as an aviator in a Rachel Crothers play, \"Venus\".\n\nFrancis was to appear in only one other Broadway production, a play called \"Elmer the Great\" in 1928. Written by Ring Lardner and produced by George M. Cohan, the play starred Walter Huston. He was so impressed by Francis that he encouraged her to take a screen test for the Paramount Pictures film \"Gentlemen of the Press\" (1929). Francis made this film and the Marx Brothers film \"The Cocoanuts\" (1929) at Paramount's Astoria Studios in Astoria, Queens, New York.\n\nBy that time, major film studios, which had formerly been based in New York, were already well-established in California, and many Broadway actors had been enticed to travel west to Hollywood to make sound films, including Ann Harding, Aline MacMahon, Helen Twelvetrees, Barbara Stanwyck, Humphrey Bogart, and Leslie Howard. Francis, signed to a contract with Paramount Pictures, also made the move and created an immediate impression. She frequently co-starred with William Powell, and appeared in as many as six to eight movies a year, making a total of 21 films between 1929 and 1931.\n\nFrancis's career flourished in spite of a slight, but distinctive, speech impediment (she pronounced the letters \"r\" and \"l\" as \"w\") that gave rise to the nickname \"Wavishing Kay Fwancis\".\n\nFrancis' career at Paramount changed gears when Warner Bros. promised her star status at a better salary. She appeared in George Cukor's \"Girls About Town\" (1931) and \"24 Hours\" (1931). After Francis' career skyrocketed at Warner Bros., she would return to Paramount for Ernst Lubitsch's \"Trouble in Paradise\" (1932).\n\nIn 1932, Warner Bros. persuaded both Francis and Powell to join the ranks of Warners stars, along with Ruth Chatterton. In exchange, Francis was given roles that allowed her a more sympathetic screen persona than had hitherto been the case—in her first three featured roles she had played a villainess. For example, in \"The False Madonna\" (1932), she played a jaded society woman nursing a terminally ill child who learns to appreciate the importance of hearth and home. On December 16, 1931, Francis and her co-stars opened the Paramount Theatre in Oakland, California, with a gala preview screening of \"The False Madonna\".\n\nFrom 1932 through 1936, Francis was the queen of the Warners lot, and increasingly, her films were developed as star vehicles. By the mid-thirties, Francis was one of the highest-paid actors, according to IMDb, to the tune of, by 1935, earning a yearly salary of $115,000 (compared to Bette Davis with $18,000) in the United States. From the years 1930 to 1937, Francis appeared on the covers of 38 film magazines, the most for any adult performer and second only to Shirley Temple, who appeared on 138 covers during that period.\n\nFrancis had married writer-director John Meehan in New York, but soon after her arrival in Hollywood, she consummated an affair with actor and producer Kenneth MacKenna, whom she married in January 1931. When MacKenna's Hollywood career foundered, he found himself spending more time in New York, and they divorced in 1934.\n\nFrancis frequently played long-suffering heroines, in films such as \"I Found Stella Parish\", \"Secrets of an Actress\", and \"Comet Over Broadway\", displaying to good advantage lavish wardrobes that, in some cases, were more memorable than the characters she played—a fact often emphasized by contemporary film reviewers. Francis' clotheshorse reputation often led Warners' producers to concentrate resources on lavish sets and costumes, designed to appeal to Depression-era female audiences and capitalize on her reputation as the epitome of chic, rather than on scripts.\n\nEventually, Francis herself became dissatisfied with these vehicles, and began openly to feud with Warners, even threatening a lawsuit against them for inferior treatment. This, in turn, led to her demotion to programmers, such as \"Women in the Wind\" (1939), and, in the same year, to the termination of her contract.\n\nThe Independent Theatre Owners Association paid for an advertisement in \"The Hollywood Reporter\" in May 1938 that included Francis, along with Greta Garbo, Joan Crawford, Fred Astaire, Mae West, Katharine Hepburn, and others, on a list of stars dubbed \"box office poison\". After her release from Warners, Francis was unable to secure another studio contract. Carole Lombard, one of the most popular stars of the late 1930s and early 1940s (and who had previously been a supporting player in Francis' 1931 film, \"Ladies' Man\"), tried to bolster Francis' career by insisting Francis be cast in \"In Name Only\" (1939). In this film, Francis had a supporting role to Lombard and Cary Grant, but recognized that the film offered her an opportunity to engage in some serious acting. After this, she moved to character and supporting parts, playing catty professional women – holding her own against Rosalind Russell in \"The Feminine Touch\", for example – and mothers opposite rising young stars such as Deanna Durbin. Francis did have a lead role in the Bogart gangster film \"King of the Underworld\", released in 1939.\n\nWith the start of World War II, Francis did volunteer work, including extensive war-zone touring, which was first chronicled in a book attributed to fellow volunteer Carole Landis, \"Four Jills in a Jeep\", which became a popular 1944 film of the same name, with a cavalcade of stars and Martha Raye and Mitzi Mayfair joining Landis and Francis to fill out the complement of Jills.\n\nDespite the success of \"Four Jills\", the end of the war found Francis virtually unemployable in Hollywood. She signed a three-film contract with Poverty Row studio Monogram Pictures that gave her production credit as well as star billing. The results – the films \"Divorce\", \"Wife Wanted\", and \"Allotment Wives\" – had limited releases in 1945 and 1946. Francis spent the remainder of the 1940s on the stage, appearing with some success in \"State of the Union\" and touring in various productions of plays old and new, including one, \"Windy Hill\", backed by former Warners colleague Ruth Chatterton. Declining health, aggravated by an accident in 1948 in which she was badly burned by a radiator, hastened her retirement from show business.\n\nFrancis married five times. Her diaries, preserved in an academic collection at Wesleyan University, paint a picture of a woman whose personal life was often in disarray. She regularly socialized with homosexual men, one of whom, Anderson Lawler, was reportedly paid $10,000 by Warner Bros. to accompany her to Europe in 1934.\n\nIn 1966, Francis was diagnosed with breast cancer and underwent a mastectomy, but the cancer had spread and proved fatal. Having no living immediate family members, Francis left more than $1,000,000 to The Seeing Eye, which trains guide dogs for the blind. She died in 1968, aged 63, and her body was immediately cremated; her ashes were scattered.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "6668660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6668660", "title": "Khaleel Mohammed", "text": "Khaleel Mohammed\n\nKhaleel Mohammed is a Guyanese-born professor of Religion at San Diego State University (SDSU), in San Diego, California, a member of Homeland Security Master's Program, and a core faculty member of SDSU's Center for Islamic and Arabic Studies.\n\nKhaleel Mohammed was born in Guyana. He studied Islamic law at Imam Muhammad ibn Saud Islamic University in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. After completing an MA in Judaism and Islam at Concordia University, Montreal, he pursued a PhD in Islamic law at McGill University in Montreal.\n\nMohammed's specialties are Islam, Islamic Law, and Comparative Religion. His research interests include Islamic and Arabic studies, Islamic law (classical and modern), comparative religion, Jewish/Christian/Islamic encounter, Qur'anic exegesis (classical and modern), hadith, gender/sex issues and sexuality in Islam, terrorism, antisemitism in Islam, Arab-Israeli relations, and reform in Islam. He is a proponent of inter-faith marriage (between Muslim women and non-Muslim men) without the traditionally required conversion of the non-Muslim spouse, and is a registered marriage-officiant.\n\nMohammed teaches courses on World Religions, The Qur'an, Religious Violence and Non-Violence, Sex and Gender in Islam, and Abrahamic Religions.courses_khaleel mohammed\n\nMohammed has testified as an \"expert witness\" for the prosecution in cases involving allegations of terrorism-related activities.\n\nKhaleel Mohammed has stated that in some cases foreign-born Imams \"are a threat to Canada\" and that \"They come from Bangladesh, South Africa, Guyana, Egypt and Syria etc. and they bring their cultural baggage with them.\" He has also suggested that the fact that immigrants native languages are used in Canadian mosques is a problem and that \"They (Canadian imams) have to speak English...All mosques I've been to -- give or take five per cent -- have been using an overwhelming amount of Arabic\".\n\nMohammed has been both praised and lambasted by far right and Zionist publications such as Campus Watch and He has appeared in \"Obsession: Radical Islam’s War With the West,\" a film widely criticized as Islamophobic and produced by the far right Clarion Project.\n\nHe states that he was once accused of being racist, for having stated that \"95% of contemporary Muslims are exposed to anti-Semitic teachings\". He has received hate mail for his statements.\n\nMohammed attracted attention for a 2004 interview in which he stated that Sura 5 verse 21 of the Qur'an, and the medieval exegetes of the Qur'an, say that Israel belongs to the Jews. He translates it thus:\n\nMohammed says of Israel, \"It's in the Muslim consciousness that the land first belonged to the Jews. It doesn't matter if the Jews were exiled 500 years or 2000 years, the Holy Land, as mentioned in Quran belongs to Moses and his people, the Jews.\"\nHe states that the issues about the land of Israel ought not to be settled via references to scripture, but rather by the use of human rights legislation.\n\n\"David in the Muslim Tradition: A study of the Bathsheba Affair\" Lexington Press, 2014.\n\"Introduction to World Religions,\" Polymath Learning, 2014.\n\"Coming to Terms with the Qur'an,\" IPI, 2008. Co-edited with Andrew Rippin\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30045931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30045931", "title": "Leib Yaffe", "text": "Leib Yaffe\n\nLeib Yaffe (born 1876) () was a Hebrew poet, journalist and editor of Haaretz newspaper. \nLeib Yaffe was born in Grodno, Belarus. He spent his university years in Germany. A life-long champion of the Zionist cause, he immigrated to Palestine in 1920, where he became chief editor of Haaretz. He founded and served as director-general of Keren Hayesod.In 1924, he visited Pinsk to promote the Zionist cause and received a warm welcome from the Jewish community. \n\nIn 1942, he was sent on a mission to South America, and in December of that year he traveled to United States as an emissary of the Zionist Movement. \n\nOn March 11, 1948, he and 12 others were killed by a car bomb in the courtyard of the Jewish Agency building in Jerusalem.\n\nA street is named after him in Jerusalem's Talpiot neighborhood, as well as in Herzliya, Israel.\n\n"}
{"id": "39454142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39454142", "title": "Mamilov`s", "text": "Mamilov`s\n\nThey come from the village of Erzi Dzheyrakhsky District Ingushetia (since 2000 a part of the State Nature Reserve \"Erzi\").\nAt this time, they live mostly in Malgobeksky District and Dzheyrakhsky District of Ingushetia.\n\nIngush local historian and ethnographer Chakh Akhriev describes the origins:\nKist – the son of a famous Syrian the owner of the house Kamen (Comnenus), during the first Crusades moved from Syria and Abkhazia, and hence, after a while, went to the Georgia. But Georgia was at that time in the sad state of constant attacks Arabs and Turkish, so that Kist was forced to run away from here into impregnable Caucasus Mountains and lived in one of the gorges North Caucasus, near the headwaters of Terek and ... His son Chard (according to some – Cha) was also the son Chard. The latter was built in Arzi (Erzi) 16 \"siege\" towers and castles that exist at the present time. After Chard followed by his direct descendants: Oedipus, Elbiaz and the sons of the last Manuel (Mamil) and And (Yand). After the death of Manuel (Mamil) his son Daurbek quarreled with his uncle And, left Kist society and moved to a nearby, Dzherahovskoe society.\n\nThe clan has a relationship with Yandiev and Dakhkilgov clans.\n\nThe Mamilova belonged to the 19th-century tower complex Erzi bronze figure of an eagle, made at the end of the 8th century to the Arab Caliphate, known as the \"Suleymans Eagle\" and considered one of the symbols of Ingushetia.\n\n"}
{"id": "29498336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29498336", "title": "Medeiros e Albuquerque", "text": "Medeiros e Albuquerque\n\nJosé Joaquim de Campos da Costa de Medeiros e Albuquerque (September 4, 1867 – June 9, 1934) was a Brazilian poet, politician, teacher, journalist, short story writer, civil servant, essayist, orator, novelist and dramatist. He is famous for writing the lyrics of the Brazilian Republic Anthem in 1890.\n\nHe founded and occupied the 22nd chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters from 1897 until his death in 1934.\n\nHe was also the President of the Academy in 1923.\n\nAlbuquerque was born in 1867 in Recife, Pernambuco, the son of Dr. José Joaquim de Campos de Medeiros e Albuquerque. Initially homeschooled by his mother, he studied at the Colégio Pedro II and later in Lisbon. Returning to Brazil, he studied natural history with Émil Goeldi and was tutored by Sílvio Romero. He initially worked as a primary teacher, getting in contact with famous writers such as Francisco de Paula Ney and Pardal Mallet. In 1889 he published his first poetry books: \"Pecados\" and \"Canções da Decadência\", of strong Symbolist influence.\n\nIn 1888 he worked for the newspaper \"Novidades\" alongside Alcindo Guanabara, defending Abolitionist ideals. With the proclamation of the Republic in Brazil, he was nominated a secretary by Aristides Lobo and a minister by Benjamin Constant Botelho de Magalhães. From 1890 onwards he became a teacher for the Escola Nacional de Belas Artes and wrote the lyrics of the Brazilian Republic Anthem.\n\nHe was a convicted atheist for most of his life, but he converted to catholicism later in life.\n\nDuring his last years of life, he would write for many newspapers, using pen names such as Armando Quevedo, Atasius Noll, J. dos Santos, Max and Rifiúfio Singapura.\n\nHe died in 1934.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "655949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655949", "title": "Milenko Stojković", "text": "Milenko Stojković\n\nMilenko Stojković (; 1769, Kličevac, Požarevac – 1831) was a Serbian revolutionary and \"bimbaša\" in the First Serbian Uprising early in the 19th century. He is most famous for executing four dahije (renegade janissaries) tyrants during the start of the First Serbian Uprising, in vengeance for the \"Slaughter of the Knezes\".\n\nHaving apprehended and, while running away, Milenko executed the Turkish tyrants Aganlija, Kucuk Alija, Mula Jusuf and Mehmed Focic, responsible for the killing of Serbian Princes that triggered the First Serbian Uprising, on the island of Ada Kaleh on the River Danube.\n"}
{"id": "291520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291520", "title": "Mischa Barton", "text": "Mischa Barton\n\nMischa Anne Barton (born 24 January 1986) is a British-American film, television, and stage actress. She began her career on the stage, appearing in Tony Kushner's \"Slavs!\" and took the lead in James Lapine's \"Twelve Dreams\" at New York City's Lincoln Center. She made her screen debut with a guest appearance on the American soap opera \"All My Children\" (1996), and voicing a character on the Nickelodeon cartoon series \"KaBlam!\" (1996–97). Her first major film role was as the protagonist of \"Lawn Dogs\" (1997), a drama co-starring Sam Rockwell. She appeared in major pictures such as the romantic comedy, \"Notting Hill\" (1999) and M. Night Shyamalan's psychological thriller, \"The Sixth Sense\" (1999). She also starred in the indie crime drama \"Pups\" (1999).\n\nBarton later appeared in the independent drama, \"Lost and Delirious\" (2001) and guest-starred as Evan Rachel Wood's girlfriend on ABC's \"Once and Again\" (2001–02). She played Marissa Cooper in the Fox television series \"The O.C.\" (2003–07), for which she received two Teen Choice Awards. The role brought Barton into mainstream fame, and \"Entertainment Weekly\" named her the \"It Girl\" of 2003.\n\nBarton has since appeared in the comedy remake \"St Trinian's\" (2007), the Richard Attenborough–directed drama \"Closing the Ring\" (2007) and \"Assassination of a High School President\" (2008). She returned to television, starring in the short-lived Ashton Kutcher-produced CW series, \"\" (2009). In 2012, she returned to the stage, performing in the Irish production of \"Steel Magnolias\". She also appeared alongside Martin Sheen in \"\" (2014). She has garnered critical praise for her roles in independent films, with the \"Los Angeles Times\" praising her \"standout\" performance in \"Starcrossed\" (2014). Barton has most recently been cast in the MTV series, \"\", a reboot of the hit-show, \"The Hills\".\n\nBarton was born at Queen Charlotte's and Chelsea Hospital in Hammersmith, London, to an Irish mother, Nuala (née Quinn), a photographer, and an English father, Paul Marsden Barton, a foreign exchange broker from Manchester. Barton's grandfather on her mother's side was an Irish language professor at Queen's University Belfast. She has two sisters, younger Hania Barton and elder Zoe, a barrister in London. Barton has stated that she briefly attended St. Paul's Girls' School in Hammersmith, but her father's work took the family to New York City when Barton was five years old. In 2006, she became a naturalised citizen of the United States, but has also retained her British citizenship.\n\nBarton graduated from the Professional Children's School in Manhattan in 2004, and took a summer short course called Acting Shakespeare at The Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, in June and July 2006, at Sir Richard Attenborough's urging, after he directed her in \"Closing the Ring\".\n\nBarton began acting at the age of eight, co-starring in the Off-Broadway premiere of the 1994 play, \"Slavs!\", written by Tony Kushner. Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" praised Barton's \"so fine\" and \"chillingly authoritative\" performance. \"New York\" magazine also praised her as \"a darling little girl, [that] exhibits consummate charm\". She appeared in several other Off-Broadway productions, taking a lead role in James Lapine's \"Twelve Dreams\" alongside Marisa Tomei at Lincoln Center. Canby again praised Barton, noting that she \"has a sweet gravity as the doomed Emma\". In 1996 Barton had a supporting role in Catherine Butterfield's \"Where the Truth Lies\" which opened at New York's Irish Repertory Theatre. \"The New York Times\" also remarked that \"the winning child actresses Brittany Boyd and Mischa Barton are already smart enough not to overplay the naivete and precocity of their respective characters.\" In 1997, she appeared alongside Diane Wiest at The Public Theater in Naomi Wallace's \"One Flea Spare\". The New York production went on to win the OBIE Award for Best Play.\n\nShe made her film debut in \"Lawn Dogs\", which won awards at film festivals around the world. Barton won critical favour for her role, with Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" praising her \"poised\" performance and \"Empire\" celebrating her \"hypnotic central performance\". Barton then appeared in \"Notting Hill\" (1999) and \"The Sixth Sense\" (1999). Both films were critically and commercially successful, respectively earning $363,889,700 and $672,806,292. She also starred in \"Pups\", a \"\"Dog Day Afternoon\" for the MTV generation\", alongside Burt Reynolds; along with her co-star Cameron Van Hoy, film critic Roger Ebert called their work in the film \"two of the most natural and freed performances I have seen by actors of any age.\"\n\nBarton first appeared on television in 1994, playing a young Corvina Lang in flashbacks in the soap opera \"All My Children\". In 1996, she returned to the show, replacing Michelle Trachtenberg in the role of Lily Benton Montgomery. She guest-starred in eight episodes of the television series \"Once and Again\" as Jessie Sammler's (Evan Rachel Wood) girlfriend, Katie Singer. In 2001, she returned to film and starred in the independent Canadian drama, \"Lost and Delirious\", based on the novel \"The Wives of Bath\" by Susan Swan. The film was met with mixed reviews, but the performances of Barton and her co-stars Piper Perabo and Jessica Paré were widely praised. She also starred in \"Julie Johnson\" (2001) alongside Lili Taylor and Courtney Love, playing the daughter of a woman in a lesbian relationship. Barton also had a supporting role in the independent teen drama \"Tart\" (2001) with Brad Renfro and Dominique Swain.\n\nOther television appearances include an episode of the Fox series \"Fastlane\" (2003). She also appears as the love interest in James Blunt's music video \"Goodbye My Lover\" (2005) and in Enrique Iglesias' music video \"Addicted\" (2003).\n\nIn August 2003, Fox premiered the television series \"The O.C.\", about affluent teenagers with stormy personal lives who reside in scenic Orange County, California. The show became an overnight success due to its large fanbase, and resulted in Barton's fame being increased through her role as Marissa Cooper. Barton departed from the show in the third-season finale in May 2006. During her time on the show, Barton garnered several Teen Choice Awards. She was also celebrated by \"Glamour\" as the \"Next Big Thing\". \"The O.C.\" dropped in ratings dramatically during its third and fourth seasons, and ended in early 2007.\n\nIn July 2006, Barton appeared on the British comedy variety show \"The Friday Night Project\" as a guest host. In 2007, Barton appeared in the films \"The Oh in Ohio\" and the comedy film \"Virgin Territory\" with Hayden Christensen. She also joined Shirley MacLaine and Christopher Plummer in Richard Attenborough's war drama \"Closing the Ring\". Attenborough praised her, saying \"her ability to convey pain and sadness, hopefulness and fear, is riveting\". \"The Independent\" also noted that \"she lends her character a beguiling vulnerability.\"\n\nShe also appeared in the British comedy \"St Trinians\" (2007), appearing as a former head girl of that school advising current senior pupils on fashion and style. Later in 2007, Barton was cast in the international film produced by the Russian band t.A.T.u., called \"You and I\". The film premiered at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2008 and was released theatrically in Russia in 2011. She appeared in \"Assassination of a High School President\" (2008), co-starring Bruce Willis, which premiered at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival. \"The Hollywood Reporter\" praised Barton's \"captivating\" performance.\n\nShe also starred in the horror film \"Walled In\", which was released straight-to-DVD in March 2009. It received mixed reviews, but her performance was praised, with IGN calling her performance \"terrific\". Her next horror project, \"Homecoming\", received a limited release in July 2009. Barton did not attend the premiere of the psychological thriller due to a medical issue. She also starred in the 2009 film \"Don't Fade Away\". In early 2009 she began filming alongside Martin Sheen in \"\" a biopic of the Bhopal gas tragedy.\n\nIn a December 2007 interview, she indicated that she would return to television for the right project; \"It's not that I dislike doing television at all. It would be interesting having more creative control over where the storylines go or the characters. But for the right thing, of course.\" In 2009 she starred as one of the main characters on \"The Beautiful Life\" a new series on The CW. The series was subsequently cancelled on 25 September 2009 after televising 2 episodes. In December 2009, the technology company HP became the show's sponsor. airing the show's five episodes on YouTube.\n\nShe guest starred on \"\", played an endangered prostitute in an episode that aired on 3 March 2010. She has since mainly filmed horror and thriller projects, taking roles in \"The Sibling\", \"Cyberstalker\", a Lifetime television film and \"Apartment 1303 3D\", the English-language remake of the Japanese horror film, \"Apartment 1303\". Barton also appeared alongside Ryan Eggold in Mark Edwin Robinson's supernatural romance thriller, \"Into the Dark\".\n\nIn May 2012, Barton discussed her recent preference for the horror genre, following roles in \"Homecoming\", \"Apartment 1303\" and \"Sibling\" \"I literally became obsessed with that genre. I can't tell you. Because I never watched it when I was younger; it used to be way too terrifying for me.\" However Barton added that, \"I think I've gone through my little phase, for the moment.\" In June, Barton appeared in the new music video of Noel Gallagher's \"Everybody's on the Run\".\n\nIn July 2012, it was revealed that Barton would make her stage return in an Irish production of \"Steel Magnolias\". Barton will play Shelby in the production, which will premiere at the Gaiety Theatre, Dublin in September and will be followed by a nationwide tour. After the premiere on 12 September, Barton received praise for her performance. The \"Evening Herald\" wrote \"Barton sparkles from the moment she steps on stage...Barton's Shelby is instantly magnetic\".\n\nOn 8 March 2016, Barton was announced as one of the celebrities who will compete on the 22nd season of \"Dancing with the Stars\". She was paired with professional dancer Artem Chigvintsev. On 4 April 2016, Barton and Chigvintsev were eliminated from the competition and finished in 11th place.\n\nLater in 2016 Barton was praised for role in the independent drama, \"Starcrossed\". Writing in the \"Los Angeles Times\", Katie Walsh described how \"Barton is a standout as the alluring, broken young woman who hides as much as she reveals.\"\n\nMost recently she has been critically recognized for her performance in \"Deserted\", a psychological survival story written and directed by Ashley Avis. Barton plays Jae, a young woman recently released from prison who goes on a soul-searching journey into the desert with her brother Robin, played by Jackson Davis. \"Barton is well-cast, grounded and burdened,\" and \"...delivers one of her best performances in years.\"\n\nIn 2018, Barton was cast in \"The Cat and the Moon\", the directorial debut of Alex Wolff.\n\nBarton has been in many television commercials and print advertising campaigns. Barton has modelled for companies Calvin Klein, bebe stores, Aéropostale, Monsoon Accessorize, Dooney & Bourke, JC (Jeans and Clothes), European clothing line Morgan de Toi, Jaspal, and Neutrogena skincare products. She became the spokesperson for Keds Sneakers, substantially increasing their sales. In Australia, she appears in commercials for teen magazine \"Famous\" and was the guest of honour at retail giant David Jones Tahitian Summer Collection launch. She has also endorsed Chanel jewelry, appearing at events for the brand. In a 2005 interview, she stated that she liked the Chanel brand because they produced a large number of clip-on earrings suitable for women who did not have pierced ears, as she did not at the time. In 2009, having had her ears pierced for her role in \"The Beautiful Life\", she modeled jewelry for the company Inspired Creations, including pierced earrings and their Waxing Poetic range of charms.\n\nIn 2008, she won the \"InStyle\" \"icon of the year\" award from Karl Lagerfeld at the Viper awards in Berlin. \n\nBarton also became a spokesperson for the SAFE (Skin Awareness for Everyone) campaign in 2007. In addition, she lent her name to the TRAID campaign (Textile Recycling for Aid and International Development) in association with Visa Swap. Barton was photographed in April 2007 for the Fall 2007/2008 advertising campaign for Italian clothing brand Iceberg, modelling with Nicolas Bemberg.\n\nIn July 2008, she created a 14-piece handbag collection for online retailer, ASOS.com. Barton was reportedly very involved in the line which retails from £20 to £145. She told ASOS magazine that she first discovered the website through her sister.\n\nIn December 2008, Barton premiered her line of headbands released on the Stacy Lapidus line. The headbands cost from $90 to $200. She also has a handbag line for London-based Ri2k, which is sold in the United Kingdom and Australia only. In early 2009, she became the \"new face\" of Herbal Essences.\n\nIn June 2010 she was announced as the face of Philipp Plein couture. Plein revealed, \"Being in the limelight for a young and beautiful girl, the looks of course always get a lot of attention, Mischa Barton got a lot and learned to live with her fame. For me it was the big challenge to again show her as a Diva, a Rock 'n' Roll Goddess\". The campaign will be circulated in international editions of leading fashion magazines.\n\nIn October 2011 she appeared in a photoshoot for Tyler Shields that was showcased at the Imitate Modern Gallery in London. Artinfo remarked at the \"sense of subjugation\" in the raw-meat inspired shoot, \"Barton is naked, lipsticked, and icily coiffed like a Duran Duran-era object of desire.\"\n\nIn December 2011 it was reported that Barton plans to open a clothes and shoes store in Shoreditch, the store has the working title of 'Mischa's Closet'. In March 2012 she debuted a new line of clothing, accessories, cosmetics, and bath products on the internet called Mischa's Place. Barton has plans to expand Mischa's Place beyond the internet and is set to open a Mischa's Place flagship store in London at Spitalfields Market.\n\nBarton purchased a house in Los Angeles at age nineteen, which she was sharing with her parents as of 2010; in 2012 she stated that she splits her time between there and apartments in London and New York.\n\nIn 2009, Barton served as the spokesperson for Climate Star, an organization that fights global warming through social and legislative activism. In 2007 she worked with the home shopping company QVC to raise funds for women's cancer research.\n\nIn 2006, Barton served as a spokesperson for the SAFE (Skin Awareness for Everyone) campaign and also lent her name to the TRAID campaign (Textile Recycling for Aid and International Development) in 2007, in association with Visa Swap. In 2007, Barton also served as an ambassador for Save the Children and the \"One Water\" campaign which brings water to remote locations in Africa, and was on the board of the \"Lupus Research Committee\" in Los Angeles.\n"}
{"id": "16627036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16627036", "title": "Mohammed Kazem Yazdi", "text": "Mohammed Kazem Yazdi\n\nMohammed Kazem Yazdi (Persian: محمد کاظم یزدی) (born 1831) was a prominent Twelver Shia Marja' centered in Najaf, most famous for his anti-constitutionalist stand during the Iranian Constitutional Revolution of 1905–1911. He is said to have at first reflected the attitude of the \"piously apolitical ulama\" and refused to take a stand in favor of the Constitution despite insistent pressure by pro-Constitution talebs, but then opposed the Constitution siding with Sheikh Fazlollah Noori when Noori's son came to Najaf to enlist clerical support.\n\nIn the ensuing reaction against the politicized students in Najaf and the execution of Noori, Yazdi was supported by his Arab followers, the Ottoman governor, and the group known as the \"Army of God\" (\"jond Allah\"). His victory over the Constitutionalists and their clerical leader Mohammad-Kazem Khorasani was \"complete,\" with Yazdi emerging as \"the undisputed master of the Holy Cities.\" According to secular historian Ahmad Kasravi, several thousand would pray behind Yazdi at salat but only 30 or so prayed behind his rival Khorasani.\n\nHe disagreed with Akhund Khorasani in terms of constitutionalism. He thought, in contrary to Akhund Khorasani who allowed a pragmatic approach to constitutionalism, that Usulism does not allow to act freely in supporting constitutionalism. He thought that politics is beyond his expertise and therefore did not take part in politics. while Akhund Khorasani was an eminent Marja' in Najaf, many imitators prayed behind the kazem Tabataei and it shows that he was an eminent figure along with Akhund Khorasani in religious authority. In other words both Mohammad Kazem and Khorasani had constituted a great Shia school in Najaf although they had different views in politics at the same time. when khorosani died Yazdi elected as supreme Marja. Yazdi supported Fazlull Allah Nuri in terms of opposition to constitution in Iran.\n\nOne of his important books is \"Urwa al-Wuthqa (Orwatul Wosgha)\". This book which is in Arabic is to a collection of legal ruling issued in 1919.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27508287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27508287", "title": "Noureddine Zekri", "text": "Noureddine Zekri\n\nNoureddine Zekri (born in Batna) is an Algerian football manager and former player who most recently managed Al-Wakrah in Qatar Stars League.\n\nZekri previously managed MC Alger in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1 before resigning on July 10, 2011.\n\nZekri gained his coaching badges, a UEFA A License, in Italy's famous football coaching centre, the FIGC Settore Tecnico Coverciano.\n\nZekri started coaching the newly born Milan-based team Brera Calcio in 2000 in Serie D, but he was sacked shortly after and replaced with Walter Zenga. He returned to Brera Calcio in 2005/2006 season and the following season he succeeded in getting the team promoted from Prima Categoria to Promozione, resigning immediately after.\n\nOn December 8, 2009, Zekri was announced as the coach of Algerian club ES Sétif.\n\nIn his first season, Zekri won the Algerian Cup, the North African Cup of Champions and the North African Super Cup.\n\nHowever, On August 18, 2010, Zekri was sacked from his managerial position due to the poor results gained in the 2010 CAF Champions League group stage, picking up just one point out of the first three group matches. The 1-0 loss against Zimbabwe side Dynamos was the final straw for ES Sétif president Abdelhakim Serrar.\n\nOn March 11, 2011, Zekri was appointed as the coach of MC Alger, replacing outgoing Frenchman Alain Michel. He signed a 16-month contract with the club. In his first game as manager, MC Alger lost 4-1 to Dynamos F.C. of Zimbabwe in the first round of the 2011 CAF Champions League. However, the team managed to win the return leg 3-0 to qualify to the next round. On July 10, 2011, Zekri resigned from his position.\n"}
{"id": "4457230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4457230", "title": "Oleg Saitov", "text": "Oleg Saitov\n\nOleg Elekpayevich Saitov (; (born May 26, 1974 in Novokuybyshevsk, Russian SFSR to a Volga Tatar father and ethnic Russian mother) is a Russian boxer. \n\nHe won the Olympic gold medal at the 1996 and 2000 Summer Olympics in the welterweight division, and bronze medal in the 2004 Olympics. He was the winner of the Val Barker Trophy for Outstanding Boxer at the 2000 Olympic Games. In 2004 he won the title at the 2004 European Amateur Boxing Championships in Pula, Croatia.\n\n1996 Olympic Results\n\n2000 Olympic Results\n\n2004 Olympic Results\n\n"}
{"id": "12302529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12302529", "title": "Paul Broun", "text": "Paul Broun\n\nPaul Collins Broun Jr. (born May 14, 1946) is an American physician and politician. He served as the U.S. Representative for , serving from 2007 to 2015. He is a member of the Republican Party and the Tea Party Caucus.\nOn February 6, 2013, Broun announced that he planned to run for the U.S. Senate in the 2014 Georgia election being vacated by Saxby Chambliss, but lost in the May 20, 2014 Republican primary. Broun left office on January 3, 2015.\n\nBroun was born in Atlanta, Georgia, the son of Gertrude Margaret (née Beasley) and Democratic Georgia state senator Paul Collins Broun, Sr. (1916–2005), who represented Athens and the surrounding area from 1963 to 2001. His paternal grandfather was a minister. Broun is a graduate of Athens High School and the University of Georgia at Athens (B.S., Chemistry, 1967) and earned his Doctor of Medicine (1971) from the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta. His internship was at Good Samaritan Hospital in Portland, Oregon and residency at University Hospital in Birmingham, Alabama. He then practiced general medicine; starting in 2002 he maintained a practice based solely on house calls.\n\nBroun first ran for public office in 1990, challenging Democratic U.S. Congressman Richard Ray, of Georgia's 3rd congressional district. Ray defeated him 63%–37%.\n\nBroun ran again in 1992, but lost in the Republican primary to State Senator Mac Collins, 55%–45%. Broun won five of the district's seventeen counties. Collins went on to defeat Ray, 55%–44%.\n\nIn 1996, Democratic U.S. Senator Sam Nunn decided to retire. Broun was one of six Republicans who ran for the Republican nomination in the race. Broun finished fourth, with 3% of the vote. Guy Millner, a businessman, finished first with 42% of the vote. He won the run-off election against state representative Johnny Isakson, who had received 35% of the vote in the primary, then lost the general election to Democrat Max Cleland by one percentage point.\n\n\nIn February 2007, Republican U.S. Congressman Charlie Norwood, of Georgia's 10th congressional district, died of cancer. Broun announced his candidacy before Dr. Norwood passed. There was a special election open primary in June 2007, where candidates of all parties participated in the primary. A candidate needed 50% to win outright, and there would be a run-off if no candidate earned it the first time. Ten candidates filed: six Republicans, three Democrats, and a Libertarian. State Senator Jim Whitehead was the only elected politician to run, and was the front-runner. He won the endorsement of Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA).\n\nIn the primary, Whitehead finished first with 44% of the vote. Broun qualified for the run-off, ranking second with 21% of the vote, with only 198 votes more than third-place finisher James Marlow, a Democrat. Broun won a plurality of just four counties: Oconee (47%), Jackson (42%), Oglethorpe (37%), and Morgan (31%).\n\nIn the runoff campaign, Whitehead angered some voters by failing to appear at a debate held in Athens and then by referring to his alma mater, the University of Georgia, as a \"liberal bastion\" that should be eliminated, save for the football team. In the July 17, 2007 election, Broun upset Whitehead by a margin of just 0.8%, a difference of just 394 votes. After the votes were certified, Whitehead declined to ask for a recount despite the narrow margin. Broun won the counties in the Northern part of the district, while Whitehead won the counties in the southern part. Broun's best two performing counties were Clarke (90%) and Oconee (88%).\n\n\nBroun was challenged by Republican State Representative and House Majority Leader Barry Fleming, who had endorsed Whitehead in the 2007 election. Broun defeated Fleming in the July 2008 primary, 71%–29%. He won every county in the district. However, his weakest performance was in the Southeastern part. He won counties like Richmond with just 52% and Columbia with just 58%. He won the general election with 61% to 39% against Democrat Bobby Saxon.\n\n\nBroun won re-election to a second full term, defeating Democrat Russell Edwards, 67%–33%.\n\n In November 2011, Republican Mac Collins, who had represented much of Middle Georgia in Congress a decade earlier, said he was likely to challenge Broun in 10th District, newly redrawn because of redistricting. In May 2012, Collins decided he would not challenge Broun.\n\nIn July, Broun won the Republican primary, defeating retired Army officer Stephen Simpson. Broun faced no Democratic candidate in the November general election.\n\nA leaked video of a speech given at Liberty Baptist Church Sportsman's Banquet on September 27, 2012, shows Broun telling supporters that, \"All that stuff I was taught about evolution and embryology and the Big Bang Theory, all that is lies straight from the pit of Hell.\" In addition, Broun also believes that the world is less than 9,000 years old and was created in six literal days. In response to these remarks, coupled with Broun being on the House Science Committee, libertarian radio talk show host Neil Boortz spearheaded a campaign to run the English naturalist and evolutionary theorist Charles Darwin against Broun, with the intention of drawing attention to these comments from the scientific community and having Broun removed from his post on the House Science Committee.\n\nBroun won re-election on November 6, 2012, receiving 209,917 votes across the district. Charles Darwin received about 4000 write-in ballots in Athens-Clarke County as protest votes against Broun's views on evolution, while Broun received 16,980 votes in that county.\n\n In 2016, Broun announced his candidacy for Congress, running for Georgia's 9th congressional district, a district that one political journal ranked as the third-most-conservative in the nation. Broun ran in a five-candidate Republican primary race with fellow Tea Party challengers Roger Fitzpatrick, Bernie Fontaine and Mike Scupin, against incumbent candidate Doug Collins, who held the 9th seat since 2012. In the May primary, Collins won with 52,943 votes (61.3 percent of the vote), over Broun's 18,761 votes (22 percent), Fitzpatrick's 8,942 votes (10.5 percent), Scupin's 2,854 votes (3.36 percent), and Fontaine's 2,338 votes (2.75 percent).\n\nOn July 25, 2007, Broun was sworn in by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. On January 3, 2013, Broun declined to vote for John Boehner's re-election as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, instead nominating outspoken Florida Representative Allen West, even through West lost his bid for re-election in November 2012 and was no longer a member of Congress. According to Politico reporter Charlie Mahtesian, Broun has \"a flair for the provocative.\"\n\nBroun is a political conservative Christian. In May 2009, Broun proposed legislation that would have proclaimed 2010 \"The Year Of The Bible\". He also introduced a bill to ban the sale or rental of sexually explicit materials on U.S. military installations.\n\nIn 2008, Broun and 91 co-sponsors introduced H.J.Res.89, a proposition for the Federal Marriage Amendment. The proposed amendment to the United States Constitution would define marriage as \"as consisting only of the union of a man and a woman.\" Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS) and eight other senators introduced a proposition for the amendment with S.J.Res.43 on June 25.\n\nBroun's voting record is fiscally conservative receiving a 96% rating from the National Taxpayers Union and supports a balanced-budget amendment to the constitution. Broun supports an amendment that would require a two-thirds majority in congress to raise revenues and require that all excess revenue to be returned to the American taxpayer. Broun also voted against the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and decries the high cost of the bill. In 2008, Broun signed Americans for Prosperity's \"No Climate Tax\" pledge, promising to vote against any Global Warming legislation that would raise taxes.\n\nBroun, in September 2008, voted against the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 which created the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or \"TARP\". Broun voted against the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009.\n\nBroun supports the repeal of ObamaCare, and has argued for less sweeping approaches to health care reform. His proposal involves a 100% tax deduction of healthcare costs, allowing consumers to shop for health insurance across state lines, and the privatization of Medicare.\n\nOn January 3, 2013, Broun introduced the Federal Reserve Transparency Act of 2013 (H.R. 24; 113th Congress), a bill that would direct the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to prepare, within 12 months of enactment, an audit of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Banks. Broun said that \"this is a vital piece of legislation that will help to usher in a new era of transparency in this nation's monetary policy.\" Broun argued that because Congress created the Federal Reserve, \"it must therefore be subject to the oversight and regulation of Congress.\"\n\nBroun supported efforts to defund Obamacare during the October, 2013 U.S. federal government shutdown, calling it \"a stand for principles that would lead to prosperity for all Americans as they fought to dismantle the president's health care law.\" According to Broun, \"It was the fight that Americans had been waiting and hoping for...the majority of Americans applauded our efforts and encouraged us to stand strong\", although a CBS News poll reported that 72 percent of Americans disapproved of shutting down the federal government over differences on the Affordable Care Act.\n\nBroun has argued for continued U.S. support of Israel on both strategic and theological grounds, saying, \"It's absolutely imperative that we support Israel—our brothers and sisters in the Middle East—not only because of the geopolitical reasons there, which are strong enough in themselves, but because of a promise God made to Abraham.\"\n\n\n\nIn February 2013, Broun officially announced he would leave his house seat to run for the open senate seat vacated by Republican U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss. Broun finished fifth in the May Republican primary.\n\nBroun has three children and two grandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58921101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58921101", "title": "Phillip D. Zamore", "text": "Phillip D. Zamore\n\nPhillip D. Zamore, Ph.D., is an American molecular biologist and developed the first \"in vitro\" system for studying the mechanism of RNA interference (RNAi). He is the \"Gretchen Stone Cook Professor of Biomedical Sciences and Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology\" at University of Massachusetts Medical School, located in Worcester, MA. Dr. Zamore is the Chair of the RNA Therapeutics Institute (RTI) at UMass Medical School, established in 2009, and has been a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator since 2008.  \n\nThe Zamore lab at the RTI focuses on understanding the underlying processes of RNAi; how small RNAs (miRNA, siRNA, piRNA) are involved in gene regulation networks. In addition to a focus on basic research, the Zamore lab is working to develop novel nucleic acid-based drugs to treat human disease (HD). Dr. Zamore has more than 40,000 citations on Google Scholar.\n\nDr. Zamore received his A.B. in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from Harvard University in Cambridge, MA, in 1986 and continued graduate studies with Dr. Michael Green at Harvard, receiving his Ph.D. in 1992. After completing postdoctoral studies at The Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research at MIT and the Skirball Institute at New York University Medical Center with Ruth Lehmann, David Bartel, and James R. Williamson, Dr. Zamore began his academic career as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology in 1999 at UMass Medical School in Worcester, MA where he is now the \"Gretchen Stone Cook Professor of Biomedical Sciences and Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology\".\n\nDr. Zamore’s research has led to a career in biotechnology, co-founding Alnylam Pharmaceuticals in 2002. Alnylam is dedicated to bringing RNAi based therapies to market and developed the first-ever FDA approved RNAi drug, Patisiran, gaining FDA approval in August 2018. Dr. Zamore currently sits on the scientific advisory board for Alnylam. In 2014, Dr. Zamore co-founded another RNAi based company; Voyager Therapeutics, which focuses on developing therapeutics for neurodegenerative disorders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33547749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33547749", "title": "Pierre Habumuremyi", "text": "Pierre Habumuremyi\n\nPierre-Damien Habumuremyi (born 21 February 1961) is a Rwandan politician who served as Prime Minister of Rwanda from 7 October 2011 until 24 July 2014. He previously served as Minister of Education from May 2011 to October 2011.\n\nPierre-Damien Habumuremyi was born in 1961 in Ruhondo, Musanze District. He studied in a number of countries, including the Democratic Republic of Congo, France, and Burkina Faso. He obtained a B.Sc. in Sociology, before completing his post-graduation at the University of Lubumbashi in 1993. He then completed M.Sc. in Political Science from the Panthéon-Assas University in 2003. He earned a Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Ouagadougou in 2011.\n\nPierre Habumuremyi started his career as an academic, serving as the assistant professor at the National University of Rwanda from 1993 to 1999, and also served as a lecturer at the Kigali Independent University and the Kigali Lay Adventist University during 1997-1999. During this period, he also worked as a project coordinator at German Technical Assistance programme (GTZ Kigali) during 1995-1997 and a Senior Project Manager for the Catholic Relief Services during 1997-2000.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2003, he was the Deputy Executive Secretary of the National Electoral Commission of Rwanda, after which he served as the Executive Secretary until 2008. Habumuremyi was elected as one of Rwanda's nine representatives in the East African Legislative Assembly on 11 May 2008. He was succeeded as Executive Secretary of the National Electoral Commission by Charles Munyaneza in July 2008.\n\nPierre-Damien Habumuremyi was subsequently appointed to the Rwandan government as Minister of Education in May 2011, replacing Charles Murigande.\n\nHe was appointed as Prime Minister on 6 October 2011. His appointment came as a surprise, given his relatively low profile on the political scene. He was succeeded by Anastase Murekezi on 23 July 2014.\n\nHe has written a book \"The Political integration in Rwanda after the 1994 genocide: Utopia or Reality\", which was published by the Palotti Press, Kigali, in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2829021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2829021", "title": "Stephen Tong", "text": "Stephen Tong\n\nStephen Tong Tjong Eng (, born 1940) is a Chinese Indonesian Reformed pastor, evangelist, teacher and musician. He heads the Reformed Evangelical Church of Indonesia, which houses the megachurch Messiah Cathedral, and is one of the largest Christian Reformed church facilities in Southeast Asia. He has preached in countries around the world, and guest lectured at theological seminaries and schools.\n\nTong was born in 1940 in Xiamen, China, from the couples of Tong Pai Hu, a businessman whose family was highly regarded by the Qing government, and Tan Tjien Nio (Indonesian name: Dorcas Tanjowati). He is the sixth of eight children, only one of whom was a girl. his father died when Stephen was 3; his family wealth had eroded during the years of Japanese imperialism. At that time, Tong's mother fostered their brothers and sister alone.\n\nIn 1949, he with his mother and siblings migrated to Surabaya, Indonesia, to find a better place of living during the Chinese Communist Revolution. He completed primary education at Min Guang Primary School and he graduated from Chung Hwa High School (中華高中學) in 1958. Though he had not graduated yet, he had been teaching as either assistant or formal teacher from 1957 till 1960 at Zhong Guo Nui Xue School and Yi Xing Night School.\n\nWhen Tong was 15 years old, he had strong beliefs in communism, which he called \"Karl Marx's dialectical materialism\". He ascribed to Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, and had a deep hatred towards Christianity, which he regarded as \"the foolish religion which came from the devilish West and has illogical teachings\". However, he respected that her mother had a devoted spiritual life: \"When I was small, the first words I'd hear in the morning were those of my mother while she prayed. She prayed for each of us children by name, and asked God to guide us.\".\n\nIn 1957, his mother asked him to attend a Christian Youth Conference that was conducted by the Southeast Asia Bible Seminary (SEABS) (, SAAT) in Malang in 1957. On 9 January, the last day of the conference, when Andrew Gih gave a revival sermon, Tong became a Christian. He began to share the Gospel, and taught children in Christian schools. In 1960, he enrolled in SEABS, and later graduated with a Bachelor of Theology in 1964. He then joined SEABS's faculty, and taught theology and philosophy classes from 1964 to 1988.\n\nWhile he was a teacher at SABS, Tong served as an evangelist at THKTKH (Min Nan: Tiong Hoa Kie Tok Kauw Hwee [中华基督教会]); (), transliterated \"Church of Christ The Lord\", and travelled weekly between Malang and Surabaya.\n\nAround at that time, he had tried leading some Gospel Rallies in various cities in Indonesia. Then since 1969, he received invitations to lead Gospel Rallies in various countries, including Europe, America, Australia, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, etc. It is especially for Chinese and Indonesian speakers. In 1974, he started to hold seminars in Surabaya to provide truthful doctrinal understanding for churches in Indonesia.\n\nIn 1978, he along with Jahja Ling established Stephen Tong Evangelistic Ministries International (STEMI). One of its goals is to equip people for full-time ministry. He preaches at cities across Southeast Asia.\n\nIn 1982, he received his ordination as pastor. He served at GKT (, \"Church of Christ The Lord\"), then ministered in GKA (, \"Servant Christian Church\"). He has conducted services in Mandarin and Indonesian, but some of his speaking engagements have been in Fujian and English.\n\nSince then, he has guest lectured in Theology and delivered sermons in various prominent universities at the China Graduate School of Theology (Hong Kong), China Evangelical Seminary (Taiwan), Trinity Theological College (Singapore), Regent College (Canada), and universities in the United States, including: Westminster Theological Seminary, Harvard, MIT, Stanford, Yale, University of California Berkeley, University of Maryland, Columbia University, Cornell University, etc.\n\nSince the GRII has found in 1998, his services have extended to many major cities in Indonesia, including Surabaya, Medan, Malang, Bandung, especially during the Christmas and Easter seasons. To maintain contact with the cities outside Jakarta, he established STEMI branch offices in each of the areas. He added offices in the United States and the European Union.\n\nSince 2000, he travels weekly to around 5 countries (Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Taiwan) to serve tirelessly for approximately 6000 audiences. In 2009, Ric Cannada, Chancellor of Reformed Theological Seminary, noted in his school's newsletter that Tong's weekly preaching schedule included \"two Sunday services in Jakarta; every Sunday evening at two services in a church in Singapore; every Monday evening at a church in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; every Tuesday night at a church in Hong Kong; and every Wednesday night at a church in Taipei, Taiwan.\"\n\nTong observed that many churches have been influenced by worldly philosophy, and ones that were loyal to the genuine teaching of the Bible were rare. In 1984, he started the Reformed Evangelical Movement with the purpose of restoring the understanding of theology based on God's revelation in the Scripture and igniting people with zeal for evangelism. The movement is \"aimed at meeting the challenge of the Charismatic movement as well as liberalism.\" He conducted theological seminars such as the Christian Faith Development Seminar (, SPIK), to introduce Reformed theology to the people in Jakarta. His first seminar, \"Faith and Religion\", was attended by about 1,200 people. He would later adapt the seminars into books and multimedia, which he publishes in-house. The SPIK seminars have become the source material for the Indonesian Reformed Evangelical Institution (, LRII), a seminary which Tong co-founded with pastors Caleb Tong and Yakub Susabda in 1986.\n\nIn 1986, Tong started the Evangelical Reformed High School for laymen in Surabaya. In 1987, he started a similar high school in Jakarta, and in 1990, he started one in Malang. The goal is to encourage Christian congregations from all denominations to study Calvinist theology. He has served as a rector for these schools.\n\nStephen Tong founded the Reformed Evangelical Church of Indonesia in 1989 to establish a church based on Reformed theology and congregations that are committed to evangelism. He is currently the Head of Synod. Although the church subscribes to the Reformed confessions, it also has its specific confessions of faith. In 2004, GRII had congregations in five Indonesian cities and has expanded to branch churches around the world in Asia, Australia, Germany, and North America.\nTong personally designed the Messiah Cathedral (), whose proposal took 15 years to approve. Opening ceremonies took place on 18–20 September 2008, including a classical music concert and a dedication service. The building has of space, and two auditoriums that seat up to 8,000 people. The building is also home to the Reformed Millennium Center of Indonesia (RMCI), which holds some of Tong's other projects and organizations.\n\nTong's (, LRII) seminary has since been named Reformed Evangelical Seminary (, STTRII). Yakub Susabda serves as its president and a teacher. The seminary offers an undergraduate degree in Theology, and master's degrees in Christian ministry, divinity, theology, and counseling. In 2008, STTRII moved to the Reformed Millennial Center (RMCI) in Jakarta. It has a strong relationship with Westminster Theological Seminary.\n\nIn 1996, he founded the Reformed Institute for Christianity and 21st Century in Washington DC. Its purpose is \"to equip Christians for global evangelization in the 21st Century by training them in the areas of reformed theology, apologetics, evangelism, and the critical study of Eastern and Western cultures\". It was renamed to the Reformed Institute of North America (RINA) in 2007, with locations throughout the United States and Canada.\n\nin 1998, he established the Reformed Institute Jakarta (). The school is headed by GRII pastor Benyamin Intan, and offers undergraduate degrees in Theology and Ecclesiastical Music, and master's degrees in Divinity, Evangelism, and Christian studies.\n\nIts Reformed Ecclesiastical Faculty of Music was established in 2002; its goal is \"to return all the glory to God through music at its best.\"\n\nIn 2000, Tong attended the inaugural meeting of the World Reformed Fellowship, whose purpose is to formalize the Reformed Confession of Faith in the 21st Century. In 2006, they created the statement of faith and appointed members for their Commission of Theology. Tong joined reformed theologians Gerald Bray, A. T. B. McGowan, Peter Jones, and Samuel Logan as members.\n\nIn 2006, Tong and Intan co-founded the think tank group, Reformed Center for Religion and Society (, RCRS); its purpose is to promote the cultural mandate.\n\nAccording to his profile on STEMI, he \"emphasizes on the importance of the Bible as the sole word of God and actively encourages evangelism\", and believes that churches should follow the cultural mandate. His preaching style is influenced by Calvinist preachers George Whitfield and Charles Spurgeon.\n\nTong has composed music in Indonesian, Mandarin, and English. He occasionally conducts choirs and orchestras, and gives church talks about the appreciation of sacred music. He founded the Jakarta Oratorio Society, a choir that specializes in worship music. During the development of the Messiah Cathedral, he contributed to the design of the Reformed Millennium Center of Indonesia (RMCI) and helped design some of other church buildings in Indonesia. In 2009, he opened the Aula Simfonia Jakarta concert hall in the RMCI; it holds 1,200 seats. He served as the music director for the Jakarta Simfonia Orchestra, along with artistic consultant Jahja Ling and Billy Kristanto. In 2011, he opened the Sofilia Fine Art Center in the RMCI to display some of his and church members antiques for education.\n\nTong married Sulfie Lalujawati, who goes by the Western name of Alice Liem. They live in Jakarta, Indonesia. They have one son and three daughters. Their son David Tong is an MRII evangelist in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. Their daughter Eunice Tong has two daughters with her husband Holden Makmur, and works as the music director for Aula Simfonia Jakarta. Their youngest daughter Rebecca is a conductor and music director for Aula Simfonia Jakarta.\n\nIn addition to enjoying classical music from the Baroque period, Tong enjoys collecting watches and antiques.\n\nIn 1985, Tong was awarded an honorary Doctor of Leadership in Christian Evangelism (DLCE) degree from the La Madrid International Academy of Leadership in Manila, The Philippines\n\nIn 1992, pastor Philip Teng called him the \"Billy Graham of the East\" for his large-scale ministries in Southeast Asia.\n\nIn 2007, STEMI published the book \"God's Fiery Challenge for Our Time: Festschrift in Honor of Stephen Tong, the Founder and the Master Planner of Reformed Evangelical Movement: 50 Year Preaching the Word of God\" to regard him as \"the True Evangelist of this Age\" ().\n\nIn May 2008, he received an honorary Doctor of Divinity (DD) degree from the Westminster Theological Seminary in Glenside, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 2011, Westminster Theological Seminary created an endowment for the Stephen Tong Chair of Reformed Theology. The professorship was given to Jeffry K. Jue, an associate professor in church history.\n\nTong has written books based on his sermons and teachings. Most of the books are published in-house by Momentum Publisher and are mostly available in Indonesian language. They are grouped by topic below.\n\nTong's books from the Christian Faith Development Seminar (, SPIK); the number denotes SPIK conducted in Jakarta:\nTong's books for the Reformed Evangelical Pulpit Series () include:\nAdditional teaching topics authored by Tong:\nTong wrote these books for the STEMI rallies.\nTong has written songs for his worship services and STEMI gospel rallies. The songs are listed with the year and location when they were first performed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2466468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2466468", "title": "Surveyor General", "text": "Surveyor General\n\nThe Surveyor General is an official responsible for government surveying in a specific country or territory. Historically this would often have been a military appointment, but it is now more likely to be a civilian post.\n\nThe following Surveyor General positions exist, or have existed historically:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "364275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364275", "title": "Tunku Abdul Rahman", "text": "Tunku Abdul Rahman\n\nYang Teramat Mulia Tunku Abdul Rahman Putra Al-Haj ibni Almarhum Sultan Abdul Hamid Halim Shah II, (Jawi: تونكو عبدالرحمن ڤوترا الحاج ابن المرحوم سلطان عبدالحميد حاليم شه) ; (8 February 1903 – 6 December 1990) was a Malaysian politician who served as the first Chief Minister of the Federation of Malaya from 1955 to 1957, before becoming Malaya's first Prime Minister after independence in 1957. He remained Prime Minister following the formation of Malaysia in 1963, when Sabah, Sarawak, and Singapore joined the federation, until his resignation in 1970.\n\nCommonly known simply as \"Tunku\" (a Malay royal title), Tunku Abdul Rahman is widely regarded, even by his critics, as Malaysia's \"founding father\", the architect of Malayan independence and the formation of Malaysia. As such, he is often referred to as \"Bapa Kemerdekaan\" (Father of Independence) or \"Bapa Malaysia\" (Father of Malaysia).\n\nTunku Abdul Rahman was born on 8 February 1903, at Istana Pelamin Palace in Alor Setar, Kedah, the seventh son and one of 45 children of Sultan Abdul Hamid Halim Shah, the twenty-fifth ruler of the Kedah Sultanate. Tunku's mother was Che Manjalara (Nueang Nandanagara), a Thai, and the sixth wife of Sultan Abdul Hamid; she was the daughter of Luang Naraborirak (Kleb Nandanagara), a district officer in Thailand. At that time, cholera and malaria were very common all over Kedah and at least two of Tunku's brothers and his older sister died from cholera while Tunku himself suffered from intermittent attacks of malaria until he left for London in 1920.\n\nHe received early education at the Alor Setar Malay Primary School before furthering his studies at the government English school, Sultan Abdul Hamid College. He and his fellow siblings were later sent by his parents to Debsirin School in Bangkok. He returned home in 1915 to continue his education at the Penang Free School.\n\nWhen Tunku was 17, he won the Kedah State Government scholarship to further his studies at Cambridge University.\n\nAfter about a year, Tunku realised that he was making very little progress in his studies. After a meeting with Mr. Ezekiel, his guardian, in the office of the Crown Agents, Ezekiel arranged for Tunku to move to Cambridge and to be taught by and live with Basil Atkinson. Atkinson was an experienced tutor and he prepared Tunku to sit for university entrance examinations known as \"Little Go\". The following year, he took the entrance exams and he obtained high marks for all his papers with a Pass for the whole examination. He was accepted as an undergraduate at St Catharine's College, one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge and graduated with a bachelor's degree of Arts in Law and History in 1925.\n\nFive years after sailing from Singapore, at the age of 23, he sailed home. The Crown agents secured Tunku a berth in a passenger ship, which stopped at Penang. Tunku Ibrahim, the Regent and his eldest brother, was unhappy with Tunku's choice of degrees and he ordered Tunku to return to England to be admitted to the English Bar. On Tunku's initiative, the Malay Society of Great Britain was formed, with Tuanku Abdul Rahman of Negeri Sembilan (later the 1st Yang Di-Pertuan Agong) as President and Tunku Abdul Rahman of Kedah as Honorary Secretary and the driving force. In May 1930, Tunku sat for Part One of the Bar examination. Although he managed to pass three papers, his failure in one paper resulted in him failing the whole examinations in Part One. Tunku sailed to Penang in January 1931. Since Tunku was on a State scholarship, he was automatically a government servant when he returned. Tunku Ibrahim, was still the regent and he told Tunku that he was in disgrace for failing the Bar examinations in London.\n\nIn January 1931, Tunku was appointed a Cadet in the Kedah Civil Service. Later, he was transferred to Kulim as Assistant District Officer. In Kulim, Tunku devoted much of his time touring the district and getting to know the problems of the peasants who made up 90% of the population. Tunku also devoted some of his time to prepare for Cadet's Law exam to qualify for promotion. He took the exams and passed it on his first attempt.\n\nAbout a year later, Tunku was promoted to be District Officer of Padang Terap. The post of District Officer Padang Terap was unpopular because Kuala Nerang was rife with malaria. As soon as Tunku took over the district, he gave orders for a survey to be made of the swamps which bordered the town, obtained an estimate for draining them and applied to the State Secretariat for the necessary funds. Unfortunately, Tunku's plea for funds were rejected. He wrote again to the State Secretariat, asking that funds be made available to drain the swamps and to rid Kuala Nerang of the main breeding place of the carriers of malaria. This time the money came and the work was carried out under Tunku's supervision.\n\nDue to the fact that Tunku Ibrahim, the Regent, was known to be strongly opposed to mixed marriages and since there was a law in Kedah which forbade members of the royal family to marry non-Malays without the prior approval of the Ruler or Regent, the Tunku married Violet Coulson who lived in Penang. In 1934, the Regent died unexpectedly and was succeeded as Regent by Tunku Mahmud, the Sultan's younger brother, who was more broad-minded and gave consent to the marriage. This enabled Violet to move to Kuala Nerang, but the Secretary to the Government showed his disapproval by transferring Tunku to the isolated post of District Officer at Langkawi.\n\nThe district consisted of a group of islands, thinly populated, sparsely cultivated and without roads. When Tunku applied for government funds to develop Langkawi his application was rejected. Ever-resourceful, Tunku's genius in winning co-operation from members of the public of all communities led to the construction of a jetty and later to the opening of several earth roads using money and material which he collected.\n\nThe British advisor at the time, S.W. Jones made a visit to Langkawi and was so impressed by Tunku's initiative that he persuaded the Council of State to transfer and promote him to the post of District Officer of Sungai Petani, the second most important district in Kedah. Tunku soon became the most popular District Officer Sungai Petani had ever known.\n\nThe Commissioner of Police in Kedah clashed with Tunku and called on the Secretary to the Government to complain about Tunku. This caused Tunku to be transferred to Kulim as District Officer.\n\nWhile in London, Tunku sat once more for the Bar Examinations, as he planned to leave the Civil Service and to enter private practice as soon as he had qualified as an advocate and solicitor. Tunku succeeded in passing the Part One Examination, in 1939.\nHowever, with the advent of World War II, Tunku was recalled to Malaya and ordered to resume duty as District Officer in Kulim, where he remained for the next three years.\n\nHe was responsible for the Civil Defence preparations implemented by district officers. Tunku was appointed Deputy Director of Air Raid Precautions for South Kedah. Tunku recognised the need to prepare for the evacuation of civilians in the event of invasion and in 1941 he gave orders for the constructions of six \"Long Houses\" made of round timber and with attap roofs on a low hill about two miles away from the town. Funds for this work had been refused by the State Secretariat and Tunku therefore invited donations from local town dwellers who would benefit if evacuations became necessary.\n\nBy October 1941, British troops had prepared defensive positions in North Kedah. On the morning of 8 December 1941, the Invasion by the Japanese army began. The attack was quickly followed by the advance of General Yamashita's army which had landed unopposed on beaches near Songkla the previous night. A second assault force came ashore, unopposed, on the coast of Petani and advanced towards Betong and Kroh. A third but smaller force landed close to Kota Bahru in Kelantan despite vigorous opposition.\n\nUnaware of the extent of the Japanese attack, Tunku went to his office and ordered general alert for his air wardens. Later that morning, he met the leading shopkeepers and advised them to evacuate their families to the \"Long House\".\n\nTunku's eldest surviving brother, Tunku Badlishah, had succeeded Tunku Mahmud as Regent in 1937 when the latter died. He was now in control, since Sultan Abdul Hamid, although still alive, was incapacitated. At about 9 o'clock on the night of invasion, Syed Omar telephoned Tunku and told him that the Regent had decided to evacuate the 77-year-old Sultan to Penang, and thence to Singapore. Tunku disagreed with this decision, feeling the need for the Sultan to remain with his people, he absconded with him during the journey. Soon after, the Japanese began bombing Penang.\n\nWith the Japanese's bombing Penang, the Regent and his family fled. They were given accommodation in Sidim when the second and more severe bombing of Penang town took place on 11 December 1941, which caused hundreds of civilians to be killed. Upon returning, to Kulim, Tunku found out that all the Police were no longer on duty. Tunku's first concern was to prevent looting and he called all members of the disbanded Kedah Volunteer Force in Kulim to come to his assistance. These men formed a vigilante corps and Tunku arranged for them to patrol the town at night. He was also responsible for the acquiring of emergency food stores from the Government Rice Mill at Bagan Serai in Perak. By 16 December 1941, the Japanese army had occupied the west coast of Kedah, including all the main towns. The Japanese Military Governor of Kedah an assuming office appointed another of Tunku's brothers, Tunku Mohamed Jewa, to be a temporary Regent until the Sultan returned to Alor Setar.\n\nOn 17 December, the Sultan, the Regent and his family and senior officers of the State Government set off for Alor Setar with a Japanese military escort. In Kulim, Tunku reluctantly remained as District Officer for another year as a servant to the Japanese Military Administration.\n\nFriction between Tunku and the Japanese officials were frequent, and he was removed from his position of authority. The Siamese were then put in charge. Soon after the takeover by the Siamese, Tunku was appointed the Superintendent of Education.\n\nIn 1942, the Japanese transported thousands of young male Malayans to work on the construction of a railway from North Siam to Burma. Tunku helped house and feed some escapees from the railway construction project at considerable risk to himself.\n\nOn 6 and 9 August 1945, atom bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki respectively. A week later, the Japanese Imperial government in Tokyo agreed to an unconditional surrender.\n\nWhen the Japanese surrender was announced over the wireless in mid-August, plans were hurriedly prepared in Ceylon for the dispatch of a British Military Administration. At the same time, the top Chinese Communist leaders in Malaya, Fong Chong Pik, who was nicknamed \"the Plen\" and a young Chinese Rebel named Chin Peng decided to try seize control of the civil administration in as many states as possible. Tunku and his followers were responsible for the peace-keeping efforts and the protection of Alor Setar from the Malayan People's Anti-Japanese Army.\n\nOn 19 August, the surrender of the Japanese Army had become common knowledge in Alor Setar. With the Japanese surrender, several groups of people talked about independence and discussed how it might be attained. Malay societies were formed all of the peninsular with similar objectives, but with no co-ordination. On 10 October 1945, the Secretary of State for the Colonies issued his Policy Statement on a \"Malayan Union.\" In Kedah, both the principal Malay organisations held protest meetings and rallies. Tunku spoke forcefully at these rallies, but he recommended opposition by peaceful means.\n\nSir Harold MacMichael, representing the British Government, arrived in Kuala Lumpur on 11 October 1945. He came to Alor Setar after visiting the Sultans of Johor, Selangor, Pahang, and Perak and securing their signatures to a new treaty. In Kedah, MacMichael was told that the Ruler would consult his Council of State before holding a discussion with him. With these consultations proceeded, rallies and processions in opposition to the treaty were held in every district and in the center of Alor Setar. Tunku was one of the most popular speakers in Alor Setar, Sungai Petani, and Kulim, but he was not invited to take part in any of the discussions convened by his half-brother, Sultan Badlishah. After three days of negotiations the Sultan followed the example of his brother rulers. The Sultan's surrender was vigorously criticised by the public and by Tunku. MacMichael flew back to London after securing all the signatures from the rulers for the new treaty. Then the British Prime Minister announced that the Malayan Union would come into effect on 1 April 1946.\n\nA British officer who had held Tunku's post before the war was appointed Superintendent of Education, Kedah in his place. The State Government did not give Tunku any new position. During this period, Tunku held no office in any Malay organisation.\n\nTunku applied for 18 months' study leave and arranged to return to England to resume his law studies. He arrived in Liverpool on 27 December 1946 and travelled by train to London, and remained there for the next 18 months.\n\nWhen he passed all his law exams, Tunku sailed back to Malaya on the P.&.O. Corfu in January 1949 to be met by his wife, children and friends in Penang. A few days later he called on the Secretary to the Government to inform him that he was now a qualified advocate and solicitor, but the reception was neutral. Tunku was instructed to report to the State Legal Advisor for duty as a deputy public prosecutor. His work was routine and he spent his days reading case files.\n\n\"Further information: United Malay National Organisation\"\n\nTunku was invited to accept the chairmanship of the Kedah branch of UMNO, the political party which had been formed by Dato' Onn Bin Jaafar. But before long, the Attorney-General, Fosters-Sutton, visited Kedah and met Tunku in his office to ask if he would like to take up a new appointment in Kuala Lumpur, which Tunku accepted. In Kuala Lumpur, Tunku was allotted an office in the Federal Secretariat in Kuala Lumpur, together with other Deputy Public Prosecutors. Tunku's work received a favourable report and he was transferred with promotion, to the post of President of the Selangor Court. At the same time, political crisis was brewing in UMNO. When the Communist terrorists launched an armed rebellion from jungle bases, UMNO founder and president, Onn, felt the need for racial harmony and a non-communal political party.\n\nA General Assembly was to be held in Kuala Lumpur in August 1951, and Onn had made it known that if his proposals were not accepted in this meeting, he would resign. Malay leaders while discussing the crisis recognised that they must find a successor to Onn. At that time, Tunku's qualities and ability as a leader were almost unknown outside Kedah. Finally, three candidates, including Tunku, were suggested to be nominated for the post of President if Onn stepped down. Abdul Razak, the State Secretary of Pahang and UMNO deputy president went to meet Tunku in his house, to ask him to agree to the nomination, but Tunku was reluctant. Instead, Tunku replied that Razak himself was much better qualified to be nominated. But Razak convinced Tunku that he was much too young to gain the support of Malay masses.\n\nAfter much persuasion, Tunku reluctantly accepted the nomination. The UMNO Assembly met on 23 August 1951, where Tunku received 57 votes and his nearest rival had 11. In his acceptance speech, Tunku demanded that independence should be granted to Malaya as soon as possible. Tunku was still President of the Sessions Court in Kuala Lumpur, with daily duties to perform drawing a government salary and living in government quarters. Tunku informed the Chief Justice of his intention to resign from government service.\n\nIn the eyes of the average UMNO member, Tunku was first and foremost the brother of the Sultan of Kedah, and a member of a royal house, which carried some prestige within Malaya. Tunku had acquired a wealth of experience as a district officer in Kedah, which enable him to understand and sympathise with the problems of the rural population, who made up a large proportion of the UMNO membership.\n\n\"Further information: Alliance Party/Barisan Nasional\"\n\nAt the time of Onn Jaafar's resignation from the presidency of UMNO, he had predicted that the party would disintegrate with in three months. But even before the end of that period, it became clear that although influential Chinese and some prominent Indians and Ceylonese had become members of Onn Jaafar's new party, very few Malays had done so. Tunku held and expressed the view that Malayan communities could not be united within a single political party. He believed that each community need its own political party and its own political leaders, and he was proven to be right. The first trial of strength between all the rival political parties took place in January 1952.\n\nOn 6 October 1951, Sir Henry Gurney was killed in an ambush by Communist terrorists. He was replaced by General Sir Gerald Templer who brought with him a new policy from the British Government in London. Templer was to guide the people of Malaya towards the attainment of a United Malayan Nation. The policy had also called for the partnership of all communities. To put this new policy into effect, the government had agreed to hold elections at the Municipal and Town Council level, as a first step towards a democratic government, and Kuala Lumpur was chosen as one of the venues for the experiment. All the existing political parties were prepared to contest.\n\nOne of these political organisation was the Malayan Chinese Association, or MCA. MCA was brought into existence in 1949 by two men, Colonel H. S. Lee, the President of the Selangor Mining Association, and Tan Cheng Lock of Malacca. It occurred to him that if MCA and UMNO formed an alliance at the municipal level, their chances of success would be greater. Together with his deputy, they met and sought the approval of Dato' Yahaya, the Chairman of UMNO in Kuala Lumpur. They quickly reached an agreement. Under the chairmanship of Col. H. S. Lee, a combined committee from the MCA and UMNO was formed and 12 candidates were selected, one for each area, some Malays, some Chinese and one Indian. The committee then began a vigorous campaign to enlist support for \"The Alliance\".\n\nNews of the venture appeared in all the leading newspapers. Tunku was in Province Wellesley when he read the news. He received a telephone call from an UMNO leader in Kuala Lumpur asking him to come back at once for a discussion. On his way to meet the UMNO leaders in Kuala Lumpur, he saw a leading member of Independence of Malaya Party, or IMP, and asked for his opinion of the \"Alliance.\" Tunku was confronted by protesting political colleagues, but he told them that he supported the Alliance and Intended to help in the campaign in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nAt the counting of votes on 16 February 1952, the \"Alliance\" won nine seats, IMP, two and an Independent one. The success of UMNO-MCA alliance was repeated in other municipal and town council elections, starting in Johor Bahru, where, to the chagrin of Dato' Onn, the Alliance won all the seats.\n\nTunku followed up the Municipal elections by holding a 'Round Table Conference' on 3 February 1953, attended by leaders of the MCA and UMNO, in the Selangor Miner's Club, Kuala Lumpur. Everyone agreed to establish a permanent alliance of UMNO and MCA as a political body with Independence for Malaya as its principal objective.\n\nThey also discussed the possibility of forming a united front with Independence of Malayan Party, or the IMP. Tunku arranged a meeting with Onn. He brought H. S. Lee and Dr Ismail. Onn brought three lawyers and two Malay civil servants. At the meeting, Onn told Tunku that IMP could only work together with the Alliance leaders if they disbanded the Alliance and joined IMP. Tunku tried to find some ground for compromise, but Onn was adamant and the meeting ended. Tunku disagreed fundamentally with Onn's conception of a single political party consisting of members of all communities. He knew by instinct that each community needed its own political party. The challenge that lay before him was finding a way to unite the communal parties. Soon, the Alliance leaders met again to discuss their campaign. They drew up proposals which included a request for an elected majority and a firm date for the first elections.\n\nAt the Legislative Council, when the demands by the Alliance were discussed, Onn told the Legislative Council that the holding of the elections should be planned as a gradual process and he questioned Tunku's demand. Onn's remarks were relayed to the Secretary of State and damaged Tunku's image.\n\nIn August 1953, Gerald Templer offered Tunku a portfolio in the Government, but Tunku refused it. Earlier in July 1953, the government set up a working committee to examine the possibility of holding State and Federal Elections. The committee was set up after Templer obtained the concurrence of Malay Rulers who at first were quite reluctant to accept such proposals due to their deep-rooted fear of what might befall them if Independence were granted. When the names of the members of the Election Committee were announced, Tunku observed that a majority of them were Onn Jaafar's supporters.\n\nDuring the discussion, the members found themselves in two groups. The majority approved certain recommendations while the Alliance minority disagreed and made their own proposals. When the majority recommendations were accepted and proposed by the Government. Alliance representatives all over the country attacked the Government's proposals with a new rallying cry – 'Merdeka'. By then, recommendations had been forwarded to London, and Tunku in consultations with the Alliance leaders decided that they must ask for an interview with the Secretary of State in London. Tunku sent a long telegram to the Secretary of State asking him to meet a delegation from the Alliance.\n\nOn 14 April 1954, a reply was received from the Secretary of State who rejected the request for an interview. Emergency meetings of UMNO and MCA leaders were held and a decision was made. The decision was severely criticised both inside and outside the Alliance and it required great courage and determination for Tunku to proceed. Next were the financial problems. Tunku called for an emergency meeting at UMNO in Malacca where he asked for financial help. The response from UMNO members was swift. A quantity of money and even personal jewellery were handed to Tunku. After some final travel arrangements, Tunku and T.H Tan left Singapore on 21 April 1954, for London. Tunku flew to London all too conscious of the doubts of his Alliance partners and the strong criticism from Government officials.\n\nBefore he left, he was aware that Onn Jaafar had dissolved IMP and formed a new political party called 'Parti Negara'. Onn had abandoned his vision of an all-communities party and directed his attention to the Malay community. Tunku realised that Parti Negara would attempt to weaken UMNO and subvert some of his UMNO supporters. But Tunku also knew that he must act now if the granting of Independence was not to be delayed indefinitely. London in mid April 1954 was cold, damp and cheerless. There was not even one press reporter to meet Tunku. Knowing their financial resources were limited, Tunku took T.H. Tan with him to Gloucester Road Hotel and booked a double room. He then telephoned his old friend, David Rees, who was now a prominent member of the British Labour Party.\n\nDavid Rees, was the Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for the Colonies under the Labour government from 1947 to 1950. David Rees was a valuable and influential ally. Tunku and Tan went to meet him the next morning in his chambers near the Inner Temple. David Rees promised to do everything possible to persuade Oliver Lyttleton to receive Tunku and his delegation. His persuasion proved to be potent, and on 24 April, Lyttleton agreed to meet Tunku. However, there was one problem. Lyttleton had arranged to leave for Uganda on an official visit on the following day and would not return until 10 May. It was a long time to wait and it would be stretch their financial resources to the limit, but Tunku decided to stay on.\n\nMeanwhile, with David Rees's help, Tunku gave a Press Conference at which he explained the popular support for the Alliance. He then had meetings with members of parliament of all three parties. Tunku's relaxed manner, the fluency of his spoken English and his genial personality attracted his audience and provided ample justification for his mission. When the contents of the 'Election Proposal' were released by the Colonial Office only then did Tunku discover that the Secretary of State had not accepted all the recommendations of the Election Committee. But Tunku was not satisfied. He had asked for at least 60 elected members. A substantial majority of elected members was essential.\n\nWhile Lyttleton was overseas Tunku prepared his brief and on 14 May, Tunku, Abdul Razak and T.H Tan were ushered into the Secretary of State's room in the Colonial Office. Tunku explained in detail the Alliance's views on the importance of a workable elected majority and on the need for early elections, but the Secretary of State insisted that the Alliance try out the Colonial Office Election proposals. Tunku pressed on further for an agreement on at least three-fifths of the elected majority but the Secretary of State wouldn't commit to his suggestion.\n\nFinally, the meeting came to an end. Tunku had to fly back on 20 May, to attend the debate on the Elections Committee proposals in the Legislative Council. A letter from the Colonial Office was delivered to Tunku's hotel room on 19 May. It was beautifully phrased, but the contents could be summarised in two words – no change. T.H Tan cabled the gist of the reply to the Alliance co-chairman, Tan Cheng Lock. He and Tunku then left London the next day, leaving Abdul Razak to open an UMNO-MCA Merdeka Freedom Bureau through which publicity material in support of early independence could be distributed in England.\n\nIn Kuala Lumpur, Tunku met members of the UMNO Executive Committee in the morning, and the \"Alliance Round Table\" members the same night. The Alliance leaders accepted the view that the mission had achieved a measure of success. It was also agreed that the request from the Secretary of State to give the elections proposals a trial could not be accepted. They have prepared a resolution which was drafted by Col. H.S. Lee, rejecting the Colonial Office proposals. The next day, Tunku, Dr. Ismail and Leong Yew Koh, the Secretary General of MCA took the Resolution to General Templer's office. Templer read the document without comment and then requested that the release of the resolutions to the press be delayed.\n\nAt the Alliance Round Table meeting that night, the Alliance was adamant and the boycott went into effect. About a thousand Alliance members at all levels took part. It was a subtle process with results that were not immediately felt, but which were cumulative. The boycott was widely criticised. The Secretary of State called for consultations with the Rulers by the High Commissioner. Tunku decided that the Alliance should take the initiative and present their views first.\n\nThat day, nearly 2,000 Alliance supporters assembled at the government office building in support of the proposals. Attempts to break the Alliance boycott were made by Michael Hogan, the Attorney General and David Gray, the acting Chief Secretary, Hogan and Gray met MacGillivray with their suggestions, and the High Commissioner agreed to their initiative.\n\nHogan and Gray then met H.S. Lee in Kuala Lumpur and explained the motive of their visit. H. S. Lee then contacted Tunku and Dr. Ismail who were in Johor Bahru with the news. Tunku reacted positively to the compromise offered but he wanted further assurance from the High Commissioner himself. On 6 July, MacGillivray signed a letter agreeing to the Alliance's request after receiving approval from Lyttleton. The Alliance then called off the boycott.\n\n\"Further information: Malayan general election, 1955\"\n\nAfter The Alliance called off the boycott, Elections to State Councils with Alliance participation could now proceed. Tunku and his colleagues travelled tirelessly to prepare for the coming trial of strength. Tunku took Tan Cheng Lock and H.S Lee with him whenever possible and in particular when touring the northern Malay states, and emphasised the importance of unity among Malayans of all communities. At each State capital, the Alliance leaders called on the Ruler and assured him of their loyalty and support.\n\nThe links between UMNO and MCA grew stronger and on Tunku's initiative a National Council which became the supreme executive body of the Alliance was established. It took the place of the 'Round Table' which had no executive power and Tunku was formally recognised as 'Leader of the Alliance'. The first two elections to State Councils took place late in 1954 in Johor and Terengganu. In both state the Alliance won sweeping victories. Parti Negara did not capture a single seat. Tunku was now a popular figure in every state and in almost every kampung. He travelled constantly.\n\nTowards the end of 1954, Tunku was invited by the Director of Operations to serve on the Federation War Executive Committee. The government had promised to hold elections to the Federal Legislative Council in 1955, and in March of that year, it was announced that Nomination Day would be in June, and that 27 July would be Election Day. Many Malay government officers resigned to offer themselves as candidates. As nomination day approached, Tunku was plagued by demands that a high proportion of the candidates should be Malay.\n\nTunku brought the matter to the next UMNO Assembly and urged the members to adopt what he called \"a policy of racial unselfishness\". Tunku's arguments were compelling and he won a unanimous vote of confidence. Almost at the eleventh hour, Tunku's repeated emphasis on the importance of unity during the elections brought him a bonus. The Malayan Indian Congress, MIC, which had wavered in its support of Parti Negara, now promised to back the Alliance, representing the Indian community.\n\nOn Nomination day, the Alliance entered a candidate in every one of the 52 constituencies. Parti Negara entered 30 candidates. 29 Malays and one Chinese. Four other political parties entered a total of 29 candidates. Eighteen others stood as Independents. Two weeks before Nomination Day, Onn announced that he would stand in Johor Bharu, and challenged Tunku to stand against him. It was a tactical error. The Alliance let it be known that the Party would decide where Tunku should stand, and it gave the headquarters an opportunity to select a candidate who could be expected to defeat Onn.\n\nTunku's resisted invitations to forecast the election results, but he let it be known that he was confident of an Alliance victory. It was only during the last week of the elections that Tunku toured his own constituency. Everywhere he went, he was promised total support. He spent the day before the elections in the UMNO House in Alor Setar and telephoned the Alliance headquarters in every state.\n\nOn polling day, after casting his vote, he drove himself on a whirlwind tour to constituencies in Kedah and then set off to Kuala Lumpur accompanied by T.H Tan. Tunku stopped at every main polling station en route, and only arrived in Kuala Lumpur at 11pm, making it possible for him to enter the town unrecognised. Tunku always enjoyed company of his friends but on the night of 27 July, he was exhausted and wanted to be alone. Tunku spent the night at the Eastern Hotel, listening to the results of the elections until the Kuala Lumpur Radio Station went off air at 3AM.\n\nTunku won with a majority of more than 20,000 votes, Sulaiman won with 5,943 votes and Dato' Onn only managed to secure 2,802 votes. The Alliance won 51 seats, the Pan Malayan Islamic Party (PMIP) won only one seat and the National Party (PN) won none.\n\nHigh Commissioner MacGillivray invited Tunku to the King's House for a first formal discussion on Sunday, 31 July. Tunku handed the High Commissioner for a list of 11 Cabinet Minister: six Malays, three Chinese and two Indians. The list would still have to be passed to the Rulers for their formal concurrence that would take some time. On 1 August, Tunku was received by a British Assistant Secretary to the Government at the Federal Secretariat building.\n\nOn 9 August, Tunku made his first broadcast to the nation from an old wooden structure at Young Road, Kuala Lumpur. During the broadcast, he said:\n\nThere had been another General Election in United Kingdom, won again by the Conservatives. Alan Lennox-Boyd was the new Secretary of States for the Colonies. He was to visit Malaya and be present at the new Legislative Council meeting on 1 September. At their first informal meeting at King's House in Kuala Lumpur, Tunku found in the new Secretary of States an unexpected affinity. They were able to speak freely and they shared a sense of humour. Lennox-Boyd agreed to hold constitutional talks in London in January 1956, provided that the Rulers were represented. When the Rulers met at their conferences in Kuala Lumpur in September 1955, Tunku sought and was granted a special audience. Tunku asked the Rulers to appoint representatives for the constitutional talks to be held in London. As the days for the talks got closer, travel plans were discussed.\n\n\"Further information: Baling Talks\"\n\nIn dealing with the Emergency, Tunku had offered amnesty to the communist terrorists soon after he became Chief Minister. 186 \"Safe Areas\" were named in four million leaflets, which were dropped over the jungle from Air Force planes. The results had been disappointing but an unsigned letter from Communist headquarters in South Thailand asked for a ceasefire. Tunku showed the letter to MacGillivray and General Bourne. Then, with their agreement, Tunku issued a reply in the Press stating that he was willing to meet Chin Peng.\n\nAfter a further exchange of letters, Tunku and Chin Peng met in Southeast Kedah near the Siamese border in December 1955. Tunku had 2 objectives for the meeting, one was to clarify the amnesty terms, the other was to make it clear that Tunku spoke for the people of Malaya and not as a representative of the British. Chin Peng could not accept the amnesty terms because the British did not allow communists in the jungle to enjoy equal status with other Malayans. Chin Peng demanded that the Malayan Communist Party (MCP) be legalised and be allowed to participate in the elections.\n\nSingaporean Chief Minister David Marshall asked if the MCP would lay down their arms if Malaya was granted Independence, Chin Peng refused as the amnesty offer was unacceptable to the MCP, and that they would never disband the MCP. Discussions continued after dark without either side making any concessions. The talks failed to reach any agreement and ended at 10AM the next morning.\n\nFollowing failure of the talks, Tunku decided to withdraw the offer of an amnesty on 8 February 1956, five months after if had been offered. He stated that he would not willingly meet the communists again unless they indicated beforehand their desire to see him with a view to making \"a complete surrender\". He said that the Communists had made it clear to him that their ideology and that of himself and his party could not exist side by side. Therefore, the war must be intensified until one or the other gave in. \"I have every confidence that the people of Malaya will give their fullest support and co-operation to the action I have taken.\"\n\nAfter Tunku and Lennox-Boyd agreed to hold constitutional talks in London in January 1956, provided that the Rulers were represented. When the Rulers met at their conferences in Kuala Lumpur in September 1955, Tunku sought and was granted a special audience. Tunku asked the Rulers to appoint representatives for the constitutional talks to be held in London.\n\nFinally on 1 January 1956, the two delegations sailed together from Singapore to Karachi on the \"Asia\", Before they arrived at Karachi, their draft proposals had been finalised, and they entered Lancaster House in London on 16 January, as the Merdeka Mission, with a single leader, Tunku.\n\nFinally on 8 February 1956, Tunku's fifty-third birthday, he and Lennox-Boyd signed the Independence agreement, scheduled for August 1957. Tunku and his mission left London on 16 February, had a short break in Cairo and landed in Singapore four days later.\n\nThe next day, Tunku went to Malacca where he had decided to make his first public announcement on their success. His speech was simple and brief, muffled by the constant chorus of \"Merdeka\". Soon after Tunku's return from London, a Constitutional Commission as set up in Kuala Lumpur. The Commission travelled to every State, hearing evidence and receiving memoranda. The Alliance National Council spent months preparing a detailed memorandum from the Commission, most of which were accepted.\n\nThe Commissioner's report was published in Kuala Lumpur in February 1957. MacGillivray then set up a Working Committee to prepare final recommendations for the consideration of the British Government. When the subject of 'jus soli' (citizenship by right of birth) was mentioned, Tunku, as the inspired diplomat, managed to persuade the MCA leaders to agree to its omission from the official recommendations.\n\nTunku Abdul Rahman dominated the politics of independent Malaya (which became Malaysia in 1963), and led the Alliance to landslide wins in the 1959, and 1964 general elections. He not only served as the first prime minister of Malaya, but also as its foreign minister.\n\nThe formation of Malaysia was one of his greatest achievements. In 1961 he made a speech at the Foreign Correspondents Association of Southeast Asia in Singapore, proposing a federation Malaya, Singapore, Sabah, Sarawak, and Brunei. On 16 September 1963, with the federation of all these states except Brunei, Tunku Abdul Rahman was formally restyled as Prime Minister of Malaysia.\n\nHowever, the racial factor was worsened with the inclusion of Singapore, which increased the Chinese proportion to more than 40%. Both UMNO and the MCA were nervous about the possible appeal of Lee Kuan Yew's People's Action Party (PAP) to voters in Malaya, and tried to organise a party in Singapore to challenge Lee's position there, despite an earlier agreement that he would not do so (see PAP-UMNO relations). Lee in turn retaliated by running PAP candidates in Malaya at the 1964 federal elections, winning one seat. \n\nThis provoked Tunku to demand that Singapore be permanently removed from the union of Malaysia. This order led to the development of the Independence of Singapore Agreement 1965 which achieved total independence for Singapore from Malaysia in that one move. The same day, 7 August 1965, Tunku announced to the Parliament of Malaysia in Kuala Lumpur that it should vote yes on the resolution to have Singapore be put out of the Federation and Singapore's secession and independence became official on 9 August 1965.\n\nAt the 1969 general election, the Alliance's majority was greatly reduced. Demonstrations following the elections sparked the 13 May racial riots in Kuala Lumpur. Some UMNO leaders led by Tun Abdul Razak were critical of Tunku's leadership during these events, and an emergency committee MAGERAN took power and declared a state of emergency.\n\nHis powers as Prime Minister were severely curtailed, and on 22 September 1970 (a day after his agnatic first-degree nephew became king of Malaysia), he was forced to resign as Prime Minister in favour of Abdul Razak. He subsequently resigned from UMNO presidency in June 1971, in the midst of severe opposition of the 'Young Turks' comprising party rebels such as Mahathir Mohamad and Musa Hitam. The duo later became Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia respectively.\n\nAfter making Islam the religion of the Federation in 1960, Tunku established the Islamic Welfare Organisation (PERKIM), an organisation to help Muslim converts adjust to new lives as Muslims. He was President of PERKIM until a year before his death. In 1961 Malaysia hosted the first International Qur'an Recital Competition, an event that developed from Abdul Rahman's idea when he organised the first state-level competition in Kedah in 1951.\n\nMalaysia is a founder member of the OIC. Its headquarters are in Jeddah but it was actually established at the Conference of Islamic Nations held in Kuala Lumpur in 1969. Tunku was its first secretary-general since 1970.\n\nOn the occasion of his 80th birthday, he stated in 9 February 1983 edition of \"The Star\" newspaper that the \"country has a multi-racial population with various beliefs. Malaysia must continue as a secular State with Islam as the official religion.\" In the same issue of \"The Star\", Tunku was supported by the third Malaysian Prime Minister, Hussein Onn, who stated that the \"nation can still be functional as a secular state with Islam as the official religion.\"\n\nTunku became Vice-President of Kedah Football Association after his return from Cambridge in the late 1930s. Later in 1949, Tunku became President of Selangor Football Association, and a few years later, he became President of Football Association of Malaysia for 20 years. During his Presidency, he introduced a competition for those under-18 years old such as the \"Piala FAM\" (FAM Cup) and the \"Piala Rahman\" (Rahman Cup).\n\nBeing an avid sportsman, Tunku was a firm believer that sports can be a good catalyst in bringing about greater social unity among Malaysians of various races and religions. Therefore, he supported and initiated many sports events. These included an international football tournament, the Pestabola Merdeka (Independence Football Festival) in 1957. The following year, he was elected as the first president of Asian Football Confederation (AFC), a post he held until 1977.\n\nTunku also loved horse racing and was a regular at the Selangor Turf Club. He claimed that his lucky number was 13, and that he would win horse races that were held on the 13th of the month, especially on Friday the 13th for him. Tunku's racing interests included the champion racehorse Think Big. After it won the 1974 Melbourne Cup, Think Big's owners, Malaysian businessman Dato Tan Chin Nam and Australian property developer Rick O'Sullivan, invited Tunku to join them as a part-owner of the horse. Think Big then won its second Melbourne Cup in 1975.\n\nIn 1977, having acquired substantial shares in \"The Star\", a Penang-based newspaper, he became the newspaper's chairman. His columns, \"Looking Back\" and \"As I See It\", were critical of the government, and in 1987 Mahathir banned the newspaper. This led to a split in UMNO, with Tunku himself and another former PM, Hussein, setting up a new party called UMNO Malaysia, but its registration was quashed by Mahathir, who set up his own UMNO Baru (New UMNO). Tunku later supported Semangat 46 (S46), a splinter group of UMNO led by Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah. He campaigned actively for the latter in the General election of 1990, but was already in very poor health. The well-educated, visionary Tunku stood in contrast to Mahathir's brand of nationalism, which promised to help ethnic Malays, who were purportedly economically and socially stunted by the aftereffects of the colonial British \"divide and rule\" system.\n\nIt was in Kulim that Tunku married his first wife, Meriam Chong who was the daughter of his friend, Chong Ah Yong, a Thai Chinese. A year after their marriage, Tunku's daughter Tunku Khadijah was born. A year later, a son Tunku Ahmad Nerang was born. A month after Meriam gave birth to her second child, she contracted a severe attack of malaria and died.\n\nOn Meriam's death, Tunku wrote to his lady friend in England, Violet Coulson, who ran a coffee shop that Tunku had frequented as a student. When Tunku's letter reached Violet, she dropped everything and turned up in Singapore. They were secretly married by the Kadi in the Malay mosque in Arab Street according to Muslim rites. After conversion, Violet's Muslim name was Puteh Bte Abdullah. Violet went to live in Penang because they had no approval of the Ruler or Regent. Tunku Ibrahim, the Regent, was strongly opposed to mixed marriages, but when he died unexpectedly in 1934 and was succeeded as Regent by Tunku Mahmud, the Sultan's younger brother, he consented to the marriage. Though their marriage went well, Tunku's responsibilities in the public service were all-consuming and after a separation where Violet returned to London, they were divorced amicably in 1947.\n\nHe then married Sharifah Rodziah Syed Alwi Barakbah, with whom he adopted four children, Sulaiman, Mariam, Sharifah Hanizah (granddaughter) and Faridah.\n\nHe died peacefully on 6 December 1990 at the age of 87. Among those who witnessed his last breath were Chief Secretary Tun Ahmad Sarji, Prime Minister Mahathir, and a few others. The PM later ordered the Chief Secretary to announce the death of Tunku. He was buried at the Langgar Royal Mausoleum in Alor Star.\n\nSeveral places were named after him, including:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23947216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23947216", "title": "Vasily Sergeyevich Smirnov (metallurgist)", "text": "Vasily Sergeyevich Smirnov (metallurgist)\n\nVasily Sergeyevich Smirnov (; born December 20, 1914 O.S./January 2, 1915 N.S. in Petrograd; died March 5, 1973 in Leningrad) was a Russian Soviet metallurgist and a corresponding member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences (since 1960). He made notable contributions to understanding the plastic deformation process.\n"}
{"id": "2143079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2143079", "title": "Vasojevići", "text": "Vasojevići\n\nThe Vasojevići (, ) is a historic Montenegrin Highland tribe and a territorial unit in northeastern Montenegro, in the region of Brda (\"the Highlands\"). It is the largest of the historical tribes, occupying the area between Vjetarnih Lijeva Rijeka in the South and Bihor under Bijelo Polje in the North, Mateševo in the West to Plav in the East. The tribe (\"pleme\") is one of seven Highland tribes (Vasojevići, Moračani, Rovčani, Bratonožići, Kuči, Piperi and Bjelopavlići). Vasojevići is also the name of the region inhabited by the Vasojevići. Most of the tribe's history prior to the 16th century has naturally been passed on through oral history.\n\nAlthough the unofficial center is Andrijevica in north-eastern Montenegro, the tribe stems from Lijeva Rijeka in central Montenegro. The tribe was formed by various tribes that were united under the rule of the central Vasojević tribe. These tribes later migrated to the Komovi mountains and the area of Lim. The emigration continued into what is today Serbia and other parts of Montenegro.\n\nThough sense of tribal affiliation diminished in recent years, is not a thing of a past. Tribal association and organizations still exist (e.g. Udruženje Vasojevića \"Vaso\"). It could be clearly seen during the Montenegrin independence referendum, 2006 with the Vasojevići united opposition.\n\nIt occupies the area between Vjetarnih Lijeva Rijeka in the South and Bihor under Bijelo Polje in the North, Mateševo in the West to Plav in the East.\n\nThe oldest mention of the Vasojevići dates to 1444, where it is described as not a tribe, but as an ethnic group (a people). The Ragusan Senate report filed by Ragusan merchants dating to October 29, 1444, speaks of the Vasojevići (and their leader Vaso), living near Medun, in Rikavac, having together with the Bjelopavlići and Piperi attacked Ragusan merchants, doing material damage. According to some historians, the fact that the Vasojevići were not mentioned in the 1455 document, points to them having migrated from Upper Zeta. According to the 1485 defter, the Vasojevići and Bratonožići were not yet established tribes.\n\nIn 1658, the seven tribes of Kuči, Vasojevići, Bratonožići, Piperi, Klimenti, Hoti and Gruda allied themselves with the Republic of Venice, establishing the so-called \"Seven-fold banner\" or \"alaj-barjak\", against the Ottomans. In 1689, an uprising broke out in Piperi, Rovca, Bjelopavlići, Bratonožići, Kuči and Vasojevići, while at the same time an uprising broke out in Prizren, Peć, Priština and Skopje, and then in Kratovo and Kriva Palanka in October (Karposh's Rebellion).\n\nDocuments, especially the letter of Ivan Radonjić from 1789, show that the \"Montenegrins\" were identified as Serbs, and that the Banjani, Kuči, Piperi, Bjelopavlići, Zećani, Vasojevići, Bratonožići were not identified as \"Montenegrins\" but only as \"Serb tribes\". They were all mentioned only in a regional, geographical, and tribal manner, and never as an ethnic category.\n\nIn the 18th century the folklore of the tribe was influenced by the Orthodox millenarianism that had developed during the mid Ottoman era. According to one such folk legend, an elder of the Vasojevići, Stanj, foretold Greek priests the advent of a Serbian messiah, a dark man (\"crni čovijek\") who would liberate the Serbs from the Turks. These myths as part of the official Serbian Orthodox doctrine provided both a de facto recognition of Ottoman rule and the denial of its legitimacy.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the Vasojevići were divided between the two armies of Serb Chetniks (royalists) and Yugoslav Partisans (communists) that were fighting each other (vojvoda Pavle Đurišić formed the most successful Chetnik units out of mainly Vasojevići). As a result, the conflict spread within the tribal structures.\n\nIn May 2006, Montenegro gained independence after a referendum on the future of the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro. However, 72% of voters in Andrijevica municipality, the unofficial centre of the Vasojevići region, voted against Montenegrin independence. It was the second highest result against breaking the state union with Serbia (after Pluzine municipality).\n\nThe People's Assembly of Vasojevići stated many times that, apart from being Montenegrin, all Vasojevići are Serb and, thus, strongly oppose and have always opposed Montenegrin secession from Yugoslavia. The Montenegrin census of 2003 revealed that 89,81% of the Vasojevići declared themselves as Serb while 9,43% declared themselves as Montenegrin.\n\nDuring the War in Ukraine, some locals of villages of Andrijevica, part of the Vasojevići tribe, decided to sell and give up land for free to Russia, stating that \"we are brothers\".\n\nIt is a tradition of all brotherhoods to show respect to ancestors by knowing precisely genealogy and the history of the tribe and a family. This also allows members of the clan to be unite, to act together and always to recognise kin.\n\nAccording to a folk myth, the founder of the tribe was \"Vaso\". According to one myth Vaso was a descendant of the medieval Serbian Nemanjić dynasty. Vaso's great-grandfather was Stefan Konstantin, the rival King, who was defeated by his half-brother Stefan Uroš III in 1322. Stefan Konstantin had a son, Stefan Vasoje, who was brought up at the court of Dušan the Mighty. Stefan Vasoje participated in the battles of Dušan, and when he had received sufficient experience, he was put by the Emperor as \"voivode\" at Sjenica. Stefan Vasoje had a son, Stefan Konstantin II (1342–1389, known as \"Vojvoda Vasojević Stevo\" in folklore), who participated in the Battle of Kosovo (1389), where he died. is believed to be either the grandfather or great-grandfather of Vaso. The legend further alleges that Vaso, one of five sons of Stefan Konstantin II (all brothers are founders of clans), moved to Lijeva Rijeka. After the fall of Smederevo fortress (1459) and the subsequent fall of the whole Serbian Empire, Serbs from Kosovo, Metohija and Šumadija fled from the incoming Turks to Bosna and, after its fall (1463), into Herzegovina. Vaso, the founded of the tribe, fled along with these waves of refugees. In 1465 he moved from Herzegovina to Lijeva Rijeka in Zeta (modern day Montenegro).\n\nVaso's descendants gradually expanded to the north-east and inhabited the region by the river Lim called Polimlje – the area around the Komovi mountains, Andrijevica and Berane \n\nPart of the tribe that stayed free from the Turkish occupation lives in the area of Lijeva Rijeka and Andrijevica (Upper Nahija) – they are all called Upper Vasojevići. Lower Vasojevici (or Lower Nahija) inhabited the area of Berane. Most of the Lower Vasojevići were within the Turkish reign until Balkan Wars in the 20th century.\n\nTribe members were perceived as noblemen and rarely mingled with common folk – people who did not have a common ancestor. Vasojevići called them Ašani (earlier also Asa and Hasa) and today this term has come to denote Vasojevići of other origin.\n\nIn a book \"Pleme Vasojevići\" written in 1935, R. Vešović describes the structure of the Vasojevići. The list of families was exhausting when the book was completed but since then new families may have developed. Sometimes, with the very distant genealogy, slight variations of names, chronology and relationships exist concurrently but there is no doubt among the Vasojevići members which family belongs to which brotherhood, branch and sub-branch. Never has any family questioned the structure depicted below. The brotherhoods of Vasojevići stem from different tribes, of no common kinship and ancestry, which were united under the rule of a central tribe that extended its name to the other clans.\n\nAlso connected to the Vasojević tribe are the Vojnović noble family.\n\nAll people of the Vasojevići are descendants of three Vaso sons: Rajo, Novak and Mioman. Hence the three great clans (bratstva) of the Vasojevići:\n\n\nThe local legend has it that Vaso had a fourth son, by the name of Đuro, who left home and settled in Crmnica, where he founded the brotherhood of Đurovići. The legend also recounts how after the Second Battle of Kosovo, defeated Janos Hunyadi (Sibinjanin Janko in Serbian epic poetry) along with his wounded (according to some traditions already dead) nephew Banovac Sekula retreated to the safety of the high Komovi mountains. There he was received by Vaso and his sons, who all gave him a gift respectively: Rajo a sword, Novak a horse, and Mijoman a gun. However, suddenly there was a shout to the arms as the enemy was approaching, and both Novak and Mijo took their gifts back. Rajo, on the other hand, did not want to, so he equipped himself with another weapon. Hynadi blessed him for this, and predicted that he and his brothers will be great heroes, as well as their descendants, but that his own will always be the largest and that they will always be the leaders of the tribe. \n\nRajevići is the biggest branch. It is in turn divided into three branches<br> (again after Raja’s sons or grandsons: Đuro, Dabet and Uglješa Damir-Kovač).\n\nFamilies that descend from Lopaćani are:\n\n\nFamilies that are descendants of Dabetići are:\n\n\nFamilies of Kovačevići branch are:\n\nNovakovići is the second biggest branch. <br>Novak had three sons (Nikač, Vuksan/Vuica and Rečko), of which all families hail from:\n\nAll the families of Novakovići brotherhood are as follows:\n\nMiomanovići is the smallest brotherhood of the Vasojevići. The families are:\n\nBy the beginning of the World War II there were more than 3600 Vasojevići “houses” in Polimlje and Lijeva Rijeka. Many notable Serbs (or people with Serbian roots, vide Milla Jovovich) are Vasojevići by origin, e.g.:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39713487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39713487", "title": "Vikram Chatterjee", "text": "Vikram Chatterjee\n\nVikram Chatterjee is a Bengali film actor. He made his big screen debut with a small role in Mainak Bhowmik's 2012 movie \"Bedroom\" and was immediately noticed. In the same year he acted in Bappaditya Bandopadhyay's \"Elar Char Adhyay\" based on Rabindranath Tagore's last novel \"Char Adhyay\" as a lead. Soon after he acted in \"Ami Aar Amar Girlfriends\", \"Hoichoi\", \"Britto\" and many other films and established himself as a lead in Bengali films. He has gained immense popularity from his daily soap Ichchenodi where he played the lead character, Anurag and enjoys a huge fan base, thanks to the success of the show. Vikram has earned a lot of accolades for his film \"Shaheb Bibi Golaam\", where the whole industry has taken notice of his brilliant portrayal of Zico.\n\nAs described by \"Calcutta Times\", he is \"Tellyland's\" hottest man and 5th among most desirable men in 2017. Vikram has been the heartthrob for many in the recent years and has been loved for many of his performances especially in the recent past.\n\nHis recent releases Khoj (2017 film) directed by Arko Ganguly and Meghnad Badh Rahasya directed by Anik Dutta of Bhooter Bhabishyat fame, have been critically acclaimed and successful at the box office as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "80208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80208", "title": "William Westmoreland", "text": "William Westmoreland\n\nWilliam Childs Westmoreland (March 26, 1914 – July 18, 2005) was a United States Army general, most notably commander of United States forces during the Vietnam War from 1964 to 1968. He served as Chief of Staff of the United States Army from 1968 to 1972.\n\nWestmoreland adopted a strategy of attrition against the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese Army, attempting to drain them of manpower and supplies. He also made use of the United States' edge in artillery and air power, both in tactical confrontations and in relentless strategic bombing of North Vietnam. Many of the battles in Vietnam were technically United States victories, with the United States Army in control of the field afterward; holding territory gained this way proved difficult, however. Public support for the war eventually diminished, especially after the Battle of Khe Sanh and the Tet Offensive in 1968. By the time he was re-assigned as Army Chief of Staff, United States military forces in Vietnam had reached a peak of 535,000 personnel. Westmoreland's strategy was ultimately politically unsuccessful. Growing United States casualties and the draft undermined United States support for the war while large-scale casualties among non-combatants weakened South Vietnamese support. This also failed to weaken North Vietnam's will to fight, and the Government of South Vietnam—a factor largely out of Westmoreland's control—never succeeded in establishing enough legitimacy to quell defections to the Viet Cong.\n\nWilliam Childs Westmoreland was born in Spartanburg County, South Carolina, on March 26, 1914 to Eugenia Talley Childs and James Ripley Westmoreland. His upper middle class family was involved in the local banking and textile industries. At the age of 15, William became an Eagle Scout at Troop 1 Boy Scouts, and was recipient of the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award and Silver Buffalo from the Boy Scouts of America as a young adult. After spending a year at The Citadel in 1932, he was appointed to attend the United States Military Academy on the nomination of Senator James F. Byrnes, a family friend. His motive for entering West Point was \"to see the world\". He was a member of a distinguished West Point class that also included Creighton Abrams and Benjamin O. Davis Jr. Westmoreland graduated as first captain—the highest cadet rank—and received the Pershing Sword, which is \"presented to cadet with highest level of military proficiency\". Westmoreland also served as the superintendent of the Protestant Sunday School Teachers.\n\nFollowing graduation from West Point in 1936, Westmoreland became an artillery officer and served in several assignments with the 18th Field Artillery at Fort Sill. In 1939, he was promoted to first lieutenant, after which he was a battery commander and battalion staff officer with the 8th Field Artillery at Schofield Barracks, Hawaii.\n\nIn World War II, Westmoreland saw combat with the 34th Field Artillery Battalion, 9th Infantry Division, in Tunisia, Sicily, France and Germany; he commanded the 34th Battalion in Tunisia and Sicily. He reached the temporary wartime rank of colonel, and on October 13, 1944, was appointed the chief of staff of the 9th Infantry Division.\n\nAfter the war, Westmoreland completed Airborne training at the Infantry School in 1946. He then commanded the 504th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 82d Airborne Division. From 1947 to 1950, he served as chief of staff for the 82d Airborne Division. He was an instructor at the Army Command and General Staff College from 1950 to 1951. He then completed the Army War College as a student in 1951, and stayed as an instructor from 1951 to 1952.\n\nWestmoreland was promoted to Brigadier General in November 1952 at the age of 38, making him one of the youngest U.S. Army generals in the post-World War II era. He commanded the 187th Airborne Regimental Combat Team in operations in Korea from 1952 to 1953. After returning to the United States, Westmoreland was deputy assistant chief of staff, G–1, for manpower control on the Army staff from 1953 to 1955. In 1954, he completed a three-month management program at Harvard Business School. As Stanley Karnow noted, \"Westy was a corporation executive in uniform.\"\n\nAfter the war, Westmoreland was the United States Army's Secretary of the General Staff from 1955 to 1958. He then commanded the 101st Airborne Division from 1958 to 1960. He was Superintendent of the United States Military Academy from 1960 to 1963. In 1962, Westmoreland was admitted as an honorary member of the Massachusetts Society of the Cincinnati. He was promoted to lieutenant general in July 1963 and was Commanding General of the XVIII Airborne Corps from 1963 to 1964.\n\n\nThe attempted French re-colonization of Vietnam following World War II culminated in a decisive French defeat at the Battle of Dien Bien Phu. The Geneva Conference (April 26 – July 20, 1954) discussed the possibility of restoring peace in Indochina, and temporarily separated Vietnam into two zones, a northern zone to be governed by the Việt Minh, and a southern zone to be governed by the State of Vietnam, then headed by former emperor Bảo Đại. A Conference Final Declaration, issued by the British chairman of the conference, provided that a general election be held by July 1956 to create a unified Vietnamese state. Although presented as a consensus view, this document was not accepted by the delegates of either the State of Vietnam or the United States. In addition, China, the Soviet Union and other communist nations recognized the North while the United States and other non-communist states recognized the South as the legitimate government. By the time Westmoreland became army commander in South Vietnam, the option of a Korea-type settlement with a large demilitarised zone separating north and south, favored by military and diplomatic figures, had been rejected by the US government, whose objectives were to achieve a decisive victory, and not to use vastly greater resources. The infiltration by regular North Vietnam forces into the South could not be dealt with by aggressive action against the northern state because intervention by China was something the US government was concerned to avoid, but President Lyndon B. Johnson had given commitments to uphold South Vietnam against communist North Vietnam.\n\nChief of Staff of the United States Army, General Harold Keith Johnson, and subsequently historians such as Harry G. Summers, Jr. came to see US goals as having become mutually inconsistent, because defeating the Communists would require declaring a national emergency and fully mobilising the resources of the US. President Johnson was critical of Westmoreland's defused corporate style, considering him overattentive to what government officials wanted to hear. Nonetheless, Westmoreland was operating within longstanding army protocols of subordinating the military to civilian policymakers. The most important constraint was staying on the strategic defensive out of fear of Chinese intervention, but at the same time President Lyndon B. Johnson had made it clear that there was a higher commitment to defending Vietnam. Much of the thinking about defense was by academics turned government advisors who concentrated on nuclear weapons, seen as making conventional war obsolete. The fashion for counter-insurgency thinking also denigrated the role of conventional warfare. Despite the inconclusive outcome of the Korean War, Americans expected their wars to end with the unconditional surrender of the enemy.\n\nThe Gulf of Tonkin incident of 2 August 1964 led to a dramatic increase in direct American participation in the war, with nearly 200,000 troops deployed by the end of the year. Viet Cong and PAVN strategy, organization and structure meant Westmoreland faced a dual threat. Regular North Vietnamese army units infiltrating across the remote border were apparently concentrating to mount an offensive and Westmoreland considered this the danger that had to be tackled immediately. There was also entrenched guerrilla subversion throughout the heavily populated coastal regions by the Viet Cong. Consistent with the enthusiasm of Robert McNamara for statistics, Westmoreland placed emphasis on body count and cited the Battle of Ia Drang as evidence the communists were losing. However, the government wished to win at low cost, and policymakers received McNamara's interpretation indicating huge American casualties in prospect, prompting a reassessment of what could be achieved. Moreover, the Battle of Ia Drang was unusual in that US troops brought a large enemy formation to battle. After talking to junior officers General Johnson became skeptical about localised concentrated search and destroy sweeps of short duration, because the Communist forces controlled whether there were military engagements, giving an option to simply avoid battle with US forces if the situation warranted it. The alternative of sustained countrywide pacification operations, which would require massive use of US manpower, was never available to Westmoreland, because it was considered politically unacceptable.\n\nIn public at least, he continued to be sanguine about the progress being made throughout his time in Vietnam, though supportive journalist James Reston thought Westmoreland's characterizing of the conflict as attrition warfare presented his generalship in a misleading light. Westmoreland's critics say his successor, General Creighton Abrams, deliberately switched emphasis away from what Westmoreland dubbed attrition. Revisionists point to Abrams's first big operation being a tactical success that disrupted North Vietnamese build up, but resulted in the Battle of Hamburger Hill, a political disaster that effectively curtailed Abrams's freedom to continue with such operations.\n\n\nWestmoreland was sent to Vietnam in 1963. In January 1964, he became deputy commander of Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (MACV), eventually succeeding Paul D. Harkins as commander, in June. Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara told President Lyndon B. Johnson in April that Westmoreland was \"the best we have, without question\". As the head of the MACV, he was known for highly publicized, positive assessments of U.S. military prospects in Vietnam. However, as time went on, the strengthening of communist combat forces in the South led to regular requests for increases in U.S. troop strength, from 16,000 when he arrived to its peak of 535,000 in 1968 when he was promoted to Army chief of staff.\n\nOn April 28, 1967, Westmoreland addressed a joint session of Congress. \"In evaluating the enemy strategy\", he said, \"it is evident to me that he believes our Achilles heel is our resolve. ... Your continued strong support is vital to the success of our mission. ... Backed at home by resolve, confidence, patience, determination, and continued support, we will prevail in Vietnam over the communist aggressor!\" Westmoreland claimed that under his leadership, United States forces \"won every battle\". The turning point of the war was the 1968 Tet Offensive, in which communist forces attacked cities and towns throughout South Vietnam. At the time, Westmoreland was focused on the Battle of Khe Sanh and considered the Tet Offensive to be a diversionary attack. It is not clear if Khe Sanh was meant to be distraction for the Tet Offensive or vice versa; sometimes this is called the Riddle of Khe Sanh. Regardless, U.S. and South Vietnamese troops successfully fought off the attacks during the Tet Offensive, and the communist forces took heavy losses, but the ferocity of the assault shook public confidence in Westmoreland's previous assurances about the state of the war. Political debate and public opinion led the Johnson administration to limit further increases in U.S. troop numbers in Vietnam. Nine months afterward, when the My Lai Massacre reports started to break, Westmoreland resisted pressure from the incoming Nixon administration for a cover-up, and pressed for a full and impartial investigation by Lieutenant General William R. Peers. However, a few days after the tragedy, he had praised the same involved unit on the \"outstanding job\", for the \"U.S. infantrymen had killed 128 Communists [\"sic\"] in a bloody day-long battle\". Post 1969 Westmoreland also made efforts to investigate the Phong Nhị and Phong Nhất massacre a year after the event occurred.\n\nWestmoreland was convinced that the Vietnamese communists could be destroyed by fighting a war of attrition that, theoretically, would render the Vietnam People's Army unable to fight. His war strategy was marked by heavy use of artillery and airpower and repeated attempts to engage the communists in large-unit battles, and thereby exploit the US's vastly superior firepower and technology. However, the North Vietnamese Army (NVA) and the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam (NLF) were able to dictate the pace of attrition to fit their own goals: by continuing to fight a guerrilla war and avoiding large-unit battles, they denied the Americans the chance to fight the kind of war they were best at, and they ensured that attrition would wear down the American public's support for the war faster than they.\nWestmoreland repeatedly rebuffed or suppressed attempts by John Paul Vann and Lew Walt to shift to a \"pacification\" strategy. Westmoreland had little appreciation of the patience of the American public for his time frame, and was struggling to persuade President Johnson to approve widening the war into Cambodia and Laos in order to interdict the Ho Chi Minh trail. He was unable to use the absolutist stance that \"we can't win unless we expand the war\". Instead, he focused on \"positive indicators\", which ultimately turned worthless when the Tet Offensive occurred, since all his pronouncements of \"positive indicators\" did not hint at the possibility of such a last-gasp dramatic event. Tet outmaneuvered all of Westmoreland's pronouncements on \"positive indicators\" in the minds of the American public. Although the communists were severely depleted by the heavy fighting at Khe Sanh when their conventional assaults were battered by American firepower, as well as tens of thousands of deaths in the Tet Offensive, American political opinion and the panic engendered by the communist surprise sapped U.S. support for the war, even though the events of early 1968 put the United States and South Vietnam into a much stronger military position.\n\nAt one point in 1968, Westmoreland considered the use of nuclear weapons in Vietnam in a contingency plan codenamed Fracture Jaw, which was abandoned when it became known to the White House.\n\nIn June 1968, Westmoreland was replaced by General Creighton Abrams, the decision being announced shortly after the Tet Offensive. Although the decision had been made in late 1967, it was widely seen in the media as a punishment for being caught off guard by the communist assault. He was mentioned in a \"Time\" magazine article as a potential candidate for the 1968 Republican presidential nomination.\nWestmoreland served as Chief of Staff of the United States Army from 1968 to 1972. In 1970, as Chief of Staff, in response to the My Lai Massacre by United States Army forces (and subsequent cover up by the Army chain of command), he commissioned an army investigation that compiled a comprehensive and seminal study of leadership within the army during the Vietnam War demonstrating a severe erosion of adherence to the army's officer code of \"Duty, Honor, Country\". The report, entitled \"Study on Military Professionalism\", had a profound influence on Army policies, beginning with Westmoreland's decision to end the policy that officers serving in Vietnam would be rotated into a different post after only six months. However, to lessen the impact of this damaging report, Westmoreland ordered that the document be kept on \"close hold\" across the entire Army for a period of two years and not disseminated to War College attendees. The report only became known to the public after Westmoreland retired in 1972.\n\nMany military historians have pointed out that Westmoreland became Chief of Staff at the worst time in history with regard to the army. Guiding the army as it transitioned to an all-volunteer force, he issued many directives to try to make Army life better and more palatable for United States youth—e.g., allowing soldiers to wear sideburns and to drink beer in the mess hall. However, many hard-liners scorned these as too liberal.\n\nWestmoreland ran unsuccessfully for governor of South Carolina in the 1974 election. He published his autobiography the following year. Westmoreland later served on a task force to improve educational standards in the state of South Carolina.\n\nIn 1986, Westmoreland served as grand marshal of the Chicago Vietnam Veterans parade. The parade, attended by 200,000 Vietnam veterans and more than half a million spectators, did much to repair the rift between Vietnam veterans and the American public.\n\nMike Wallace interviewed Westmoreland for the CBS special \"The Uncounted Enemy: A Vietnam Deception\". The documentary, shown on January 23, 1982, and prepared largely by CBS producer George Crile III, alleged that Westmoreland and others had deliberately underestimated Viet Cong troop strength during 1967 in order to maintain U.S. troop morale and domestic support for the war. Westmoreland filed a lawsuit against CBS.\n\nIn \"Westmoreland v. CBS\", Westmoreland sued Wallace and CBS for libel, and a lengthy legal process began. Just days before the lawsuit was to go to the jury, Westmoreland suddenly settled with CBS for an apology, no more than CBS had originally offered. Some contend that Judge Leval's instructions to the jury over what constituted \"actual malice\" to prove libel convinced Westmoreland's lawyers that he was certain to lose. Others point out that the settlement occurred after two of Westmoreland's former intelligence officers, Major General Joseph McChristian and Colonel Gains Hawkins, testified to the accuracy of the substantive allegations of the broadcast, which were that Westmoreland ordered changes in intelligence reports on Viet Cong troop strengths for political reasons. Disagreements persist about the appropriateness of some of the methods of CBS's editors.\n\nA deposition by McChristian indicates that his organization developed improved intelligence on the number of irregular Viet Cong combatants shortly before he left Vietnam on a regularly scheduled rotation. The numbers troubled Westmoreland, who feared that the press would not understand them. He did not order them changed, but instead did not include the information in reporting to Washington, which in his view was a decision that the data was not appropriate to report.\n\nBased on later analysis of the information from all sides, it appears clear that Westmoreland could not sustain a libel suit because CBS's principal allegation was that he had caused intelligence officers to suppress facts. Westmoreland's anger was caused by the implication of the broadcast that his intent was fraudulent and that he ordered others to lie.\n\nDuring the acrimonious trial, Mike Wallace was hospitalized for depression, and despite the legal conflict separating the two, Westmoreland and his wife sent him flowers. Wallace's memoir is generally sympathetic to Westmoreland, although he makes it clear he disagreed with him on issues surrounding the Vietnam War and the Nixon Administration's policies in Southeast Asia.\n\nIn a 1998 interview for \"George\" magazine, Westmoreland criticized the battlefield prowess of his direct opponent, North Vietnamese general Võ Nguyên Giáp. \"Of course, he [Giap] was a formidable adversary\", Westmoreland told correspondent W. Thomas Smith Jr. \"Let me also say that Giap was trained in small-unit, guerrilla tactics, but he persisted in waging a big-unit war with terrible losses to his own men. By his own admission, by early 1969, I think, he had lost, what, a half million soldiers? He reported this. Now such a disregard for human life may make a formidable adversary, but it does not make a military genius. An American commander losing men like that would hardly have lasted more than a few weeks.\" In the 1974 film \"Hearts and Minds\", Westmoreland opined that \"The Oriental doesn't put the same high price on life as does a Westerner. Life is plentiful, life is cheap in the Orient. And as the philosophy of the Orient expresses it: Life is not important.\"\n\nWestmoreland's view has been heavily criticized by Nick Turse, the author of the book \"Kill Anything That Moves: The Real American War in Vietnam\". Turse said that many of the Vietnamese killed were actually innocent civilians, and the Vietnamese casualties were not just caused by military cross-fire but were a direct result of the U.S. policy and tactics, for example the policy \"kill everything that moves\" which enabled the U.S. soldiers to shoot civilians for \"suspicious behavior\". He concluded that, after having \"spoken to survivors of massacres by United States forces at Phi Phu, Trieu Ai, My Luoc and so many other hamlets, I can say with certainty that Westmoreland's assessment was false\". He also accused Westmoreland of concealing evidence of atrocities from the American public when he was the Army Chief of Staff.\n\nHistorian Derek Frisby also criticized Westmoreland's view during an interview with \"Deutsche Welle\":\n\nFor the remainder of his life, Westmoreland maintained that the United States did not lose the war in Vietnam; he stated instead that \"our country did not fulfill its commitment to South Vietnam. By virtue of Vietnam, the U.S. held the line for 10 years and stopped the dominoes from falling.\"\n\nWestmoreland first met his future wife, Katherine (Kitsy) Stevens Van Deusen, while stationed at Fort Sill; she was nine years old at the time and was the daughter of the post executive officer, Colonel Edwin R. Van Deusen. Westmoreland met her again in North Carolina when she was nineteen and a student at University of North Carolina at Greensboro. The couple married in May 1947 and had three children: a daughter, Katherine Stevens; a son, James Ripley II, and another daughter, Margaret Childs.\n\nJust hours after Westmoreland was sworn in as Army Chief of Staff on July 7, 1968, his brother-in-law, Lieutenant Colonel Frederick Van Deusen (commander of 2nd Battalion, 47th Infantry Regiment), was killed when his helicopter was shot down in the Mekong Delta region of Vietnam.\n\nWestmoreland died on July 18, 2005, at the age of 91 at the Bishop Gadsden retirement home in Charleston, South Carolina. He had suffered from Alzheimer's disease during the final years of his life. He was buried on July 23, 2005, at the West Point Cemetery, United States Military Academy.\n\nThe General William C. Westmoreland Bridge in Charleston, South Carolina, is named in his honor.\n\nIn 1996, the National Society of the Sons of the American Revolution authorized the General William C. Westmoreland award. The award is given each year in recognition to an outstanding SAR veterans volunteer.\n\nWilliam Westmoreland was inducted as a Laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the Order of Lincoln (the State's highest honor) by the Governor of Illinois in 1970 in the area of Government.\n\n\nWestmoreland's military awards include:\n\n\n\n United States Military Academy class of 1936\n<br>\n\n<br>\nRetired from active service in July 1972.\n\n\n\n"}
