{"id": "5336121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5336121", "title": "Akira Nakamura (academic)", "text": "Akira Nakamura (academic)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30097032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30097032", "title": "Alexander Sergeyevich Orlov", "text": "Alexander Sergeyevich Orlov\n\nAlexander Sergeyevich Orlov () is a contemporary Russian historian and an author of several handbooks. He is a specialist on socio-political history of Russia in the 18th century, in the history of science and in education about that period.\n\nHe graduated at the historical faculty of the M. V. Lomonosov Moscow State University (MGU) in 1965 and in defended his candidates-thesis on the theme \"Unrest in the Urals in the 1750s and 1760s and the expedition of Prince Alexander Vyazemsky\" in 1971. His thesis was supervised by M.T. Belyavsky. He has worked at the historical faculty since 1968.\n\nHe is director of the historical museum of the MGU since 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "6771080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6771080", "title": "Bibliotheca Teubneriana", "text": "Bibliotheca Teubneriana\n\nThe Bibliotheca Teubneriana, or Teubner editions of Greek and Latin texts, comprise the most thorough modern collection published of ancient (and some medieval) Greco-Roman literature. The series, whose full name is the Bibliotheca Scriptorum Graecorum et Romanorum Teubneriana, consists of critical editions by leading scholars (now always with a full critical apparatus on each page, although during the nineteenth century there were editiones minores, published either without critical apparatuses or with abbreviated textual appendices, and editiones maiores, published with a full apparatus.\n\nTeubneriana is an abbreviation used to denote mainly a single volume of the series (fully: \"editio Teubneriana\"), rarely the whole collection; correspondingly, \"Oxoniensis\" is used with reference to the \"Scriptorum Classicorum Bibliotheca Oxoniensis\", mentioned above as \"Oxford Classical Texts\".\n\nToday, the only comparable publishing ventures, producing authoritative scholarly reference editions of numerous ancient authors, are the Oxford Classical Texts and the Collection Budé (whose volumes also include facing-page French translations with notes). (The Loeb Classical Library, with facing-page English translations and notes, aims at a more general audience.)\n\nIn 1811, Benedictus Gotthelf Teubner (1784–1856) refounded in his own name a printing operation he had directed since 1806, the \"Weinedelsche Buchdruckerei\", giving rise to the Leipzig publishing house of B.G. Teubner (its imprint, in Latin, \"in aedibus B.G. Teubneri\"). The volumes of the Bibliotheca Teubneriana began to appear in 1849. Although today Teubner editions are relatively expensive (as are European-produced scholarly books in general), they were originally introduced to fill the need, then unmet, for low-priced but high-quality editions.\n\nPrior to the introduction of the Teubner series, accurate editions of antique authors could only be purchased by libraries and rich private scholars because of their expense. Students and other individuals of modest means had to rely on editions which were affordable but also filled with errors. To satisfy the need for accurate and affordable editions Teubner introduced the Bibliotheca Teubneriana.\n\nIn the 19th century, Teubner offered both affordable \"editiones maiores\" (with a full critical apparatus) for scholars, and low-priced \"editiones minores\" (without critical apparatuses or with abbreviated textual appendices) for students. Eventually, \"editiones minores\" were dropped from the series and Teubner began to offer only scholarly reference editions of ancient authors.\n\nDuring the period between the end of World War II and German reunification, the publishing house of B.G. Teubner split into two firms, Teubner KG (with Teubner Buch GmbH and Teubner Redaktions GmbH), later \" B. G. Teubner Verlagsgesellschaft\", in Leipzig in East Germany, and Verlag B. G. Teubner / BG Teubner GmbH in Stuttgart in West Germany. Both offered volumes in the Bibliotheca Teubneriana.\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin wall and the reunification of Germany, B.G. Teubner was also reunited (B. G. Teubner Verlagsgesellschaft mbH) and subsequently consolidated its headquarters at Wiesbaden.\n\nIn late 1999, B.G. Teubner Verlag announced their intention to concentrate on scientific and technical publishing. All their Classical Studies titles, including the Biblotheca Teubneriana, were sold to K.G. Saur, a publisher based in Munich. Although new volumes began to appear with the imprint \"in aedibus K.G. Saur\", the name of the series remained unchanged.\n\nIn 2006, the publishing firm of Walter de Gruyter acquired K.G. Saur and their entire publishing range, including the Bibliotheca Teubneriana. Since January 2007, the Bibliotheca Teubneriana is being exclusively published by Walter de Gruyter GmbH & Co. KG. As of 1 May 2007, the new North American distributor of titles from the Bibliotheca Teubneriana is Walter de Gruyter, Inc.\n\nWhile the typography of the Greek Teubners has been subject to innovations over the years, an overview of the whole series shows a great deal of consistency. The old-fashioned, cursive font used (with small variations) in most of the existing volumes is instantly recognized by classicists and strongly associated with Teubner.\n\nThis type was in regular use at least from the 1870s to the 1970s, for verse and prose texts. In older (e.g., nineteenth-century) Teubners, several old-fashioned features of the type (almost crabbed by the Porsonian standard more familiar in the English-speaking world) are still found which would later be smoothed away, for example, omega with bent-in ends, medial sigma that is not completely closed, and phi with a bent stem.\n\n Teubner used an upright type, designed to match the original cursive type, in some editions. In the example shown, the cursive type is still used in the critical apparatus. In other editions (for example, Aristotelis Athenaion politeia, ed. M. Chambers, Leipzig, 1986), this upright font is used throughout.\n\n Beginning in the 1990s, the digital production of books has been marked by new digital fonts, sometimes based on Teubner's older traditions. In the 1990s, individual editions of Euripides' tragedies were digitally typeset in a font apparently based on the original Teubner cursive. There have also been recent innovations in upright type. One of these, which may be seen in Bernabé's edition of the Orphica, seems likely to be the current standard for new Teubners from K.G. Saur.\n\nSome Teubner Greek editions made a bold typographic departure from the tradition outlined above. E.J. Kenney considered this twentieth-century experiment to be a refreshing break from the Porsonian norm, and emblematic of the best kind of modernist simplicity and directness: More recently there has been a welcome and long overdue return to the older and purer models. The pleasing modification of M.E. Pinder's \"Griechische Antiqua\" used by Teubner in some of their editions represents a lost opportunity, having been regrettably abandoned in favour of the \"dull and lumpish\" fount (Victor Scholderer's words) that is still the uniform of the series. Kenney referred to Bruno Snell's Bacchylides edition of 1934; closely comparable is the Philodemus example illustrated here. A slightly less radical version of this font (notably without lunate sigma) was used in some later Teubner editions (and in non-Teubner publications such as Rahlfs' Septuaginta of 1935), and M.L. West's recent edition of the Iliad uses a digital font that seems closer to this type than to the main Teubner tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39867851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39867851", "title": "Birchmeadow Playing Fields", "text": "Birchmeadow Playing Fields\n\nBirchmeadow Playing Field Site is a recreational area in Broseley, England, consisting of a mixture of woodland, play area, and a football pitch. It was also one of the first places where a wooden railway was built. The site is protected by Fields in Trust through a legal \"Deed of Dedication\" safeguarding the future of the space as public recreation land for future generations to enjoy.\n\nAn ironworks was located on the site which is now called Birchmeadow playing fields. It was served by one of the first railways in England, built in Broseley in 1605 by Richard Wilcox and William Wells. After several weeks, employees of the nearby coalmaster Lord James Clifford vandalised and damaged the railway, possibly due to a rival rift between two coalmasters.\n\nIn November 2009 the Birchmeadow Park Management Committee was awarded £115,000 from various grant bodies to improve the park. The grant was spent on a new woodland path, an archway, the resurfacing of the car park, and a new play facility on the site. The park is continuing to be developed and future projects include increasing woodland management, improving the football pitches, improving the changing rooms, and enhancing the landscaping of the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "24144026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24144026", "title": "Cape Cod Modern House Trust", "text": "Cape Cod Modern House Trust\n\nThe Cape Cod Modern House Trust is a non-profit historic preservation organization working to preserve and interpret Modern period houses built on Cape Cod in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. The organization describes its mission to \"\"promote the documentation and preservation of significant examples of Modernist architecture on the Outer Cape.\"\"\n\nFounded by Peter McMahon in 2007, the trust has worked with the National Park Service on cataloging and documenting, stabilizing, or restoring modernist Cape Cod homes by the architects Marcel Breuer, Serge Chermayeff, Jack Hall, Olav Hammarston, Oliver Morton, and Charles Zehnder. \n\nThe trust is currently working on a three-year project restoring the Kugel-Gips House, designed in 1970 by Charles Zehnder and located within the National Park Service's Cape Cod National Seashore. The Kugel-Gips House and other modernist houses lying within the Cape Cod National Seashore are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n"}
{"id": "47076523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47076523", "title": "Corinne Hofman", "text": "Corinne Hofman\n\nCorinne Lisette Hofman (born 10 July 1959) is a Dutch professor of Caribbean Archaeology at Leiden University since 2007. She was a winner of the 2014 Spinoza Prize.\n\nHofman was born in Wassenaar. She obtained a PhD at Leiden University in 1993.\n\nIn 2013 Hofman won the Merian Prize of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. The Merian Prize is awarded to excelling women scientists, inspiring others for a career in science.\n\nIn 2014 she was one of four winners of the Dutch Spinoza Prize and received a 2,5 million euro grant.\n\nSince 2015 Hofman is member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "1616958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616958", "title": "David Calderwood", "text": "David Calderwood\n\nDavid Calderwood (157529 October 1650) was a Scottish divine and historian.\n\nCalderwood was educated at Edinburgh, where he took the degree of MA in 1593. In about 1604, he became minister of Crailing, near Jedburgh in Roxburghshire, where he became conspicuous for his resolute opposition to the introduction of Episcopacy. In 1617, while James VI was in Scotland, a Remonstrance, which had been drawn up by the Presbyterian clergy, was placed in Calderwood's hands.\n\nHe was summoned to St Andrews and examined before the king, but neither threats nor promises could make him deliver up the roll of signatures to the Remonstrance. He was deprived of his charge, committed to prison at St Andrews and afterwards removed to Edinburgh. The privy council ordered him to be banished from the kingdom for refusing to acknowledge the sentence of the High Commission. He lingered in Scotland, publishing a few tracts, till 27 August 1619, when he sailed for Holland. During his residence in Holland he published his \"Altare Damascenum\".\n\nCalderwood appears to have returned to Scotland in 1624-1625. He was appointed minister of Pencaitland, in the county of East Lothian, in about 1640, where he was one of those appointed to draw up The Directory for Public Worship in Scotland.\n\nHe continued to take an active part in the affairs of the church, and introduced in 1649 the practice, now confirmed by long usage, of dissenting from the decision of the General Assembly, and requiring the protest to be entered in the record.\n\nHis last years were devoted to the preparation of \"The Historie of the Kirk of Scotland\" which was published in an abridged form in 1646. The complete work was printed (1842–49) for the Woodrow Society.\n\nIn 1648 the General Assembly urged him to complete the work he had designed, and voted him a yearly pension of £800.\n\nCalderwood died at Jedburgh on 29 October 1650. He left behind him a historical work of great extent and of great value as a storehouse of authentic materials. An abridgment, which appears to have been prepared by Calderwood himself, was published after his death. An excellent edition of the complete work was published by the Woodrow Society, 8 vols, 1842-1849. The manuscript, which belonged to General Calderwood Durham, was presented to the British Museum.\n"}
{"id": "8481795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8481795", "title": "David Hatcher Childress", "text": "David Hatcher Childress\n\nDavid Hatcher Childress (born June 1, 1957) is an American author, and the owner of Adventures Unlimited Press, a publishing house established in 1984 specializing in books on unusual topics such as ancient mysteries, unexplained phenomena, alternative history, and historical revisionism. His own works primarily concentrate on lost cities such as Atlantis and Lemuria, pole shifts, the hollow earth, pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact, suppressed technology, Nikola Tesla, free energy, UFOs and ancient astronauts, anti-gravity, vimana aircraft, and secret societies including the Knights Templar. More recently, he has written on time travel and cryptozoology phenomena such as the yeti and sasquatch. Childress refers to himself as a \"rogue archaeologist\".\n\nBorn in France to American parents, and raised in Colorado and Montana, United States, Childress went to University of Montana-Missoula to study archaeology, but left college in 1976 at 19 to begin travelling in pursuit of his archaeological interests. After several years in Asia and then Africa, Childress moved in 1983 to Stelle, Illinois, a community founded by New Age writer Richard Kieninger; Childress had been given one of Kieninger's books while touring Africa. Childress chronicled his explorations in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s in his \"Lost Cities and Ancient Mysteries\" series of books. \nChildress's first book, \"A Hitchhikers Guide to Africa and Arabia\", was published in 1983 by Chicago Review Press. In 1984, Childress moved to Kempton, Illinois and established a publishing company named Adventures Unlimited Press, which is a sole proprietorship. His company published his own works and then those of other authors, presenting fringe-scientific theories regarding ancient civilizations, cryptozoology, and little-known technologies. In 1992, Childress founded the \"World Explorers Club\", which occasionally runs tours to places he writes about, and publishes a magazine called \"World Explorer\".\n\nChildress has appeared on NBC (\"The Mysterious Origins of Man\"), Fox Network (\"Sightings\" and \"Encounters\"), Discovery Channel, A&E, and History (e.g. \"Ancient Aliens\"), to comment on subjects such as the Bermuda Triangle, Atlantis, and UFOs. Since first entering the industry in 1984, Childress has been involved in two lawsuits regarding publishing; one, concerning the Kennedy assassination, failed after expiry of a statute of limitations and the other, involving an unpublished master's thesis about UFOs written in 1950, was settled out of court. Childress writes humorously about these suits in his 2000 autobiography \"A Hitchhiker's Guide to Armageddon\". Childress has been interviewed on several radio programs.\n\nPatrick D. Nunn a Professor of Geography at the University of the Sunshine Coast has noted that Childress is a proponent of pseudoscientific claims such as the lost continent Mu and megaliths on the Pacific islands built by levitation. Nunn has written that \"the disappearance of Mu is very convenient because it means that theorists like Childress can say what they like and appear convincing to people who are comparatively uninformed, as many naturally are, of the huge body of scientific information on Pacific geology and cultures.\"\n\nHistorical archaeologist Charles E. Orser (editor of \"International Journal of Historical Archaeology\") has criticized Childress's writings:\n\nChildress's company has published nearly 200 books (many translated into foreign languages) over the course of two dozen years. Childress himself has authored and co-authored over a dozen books, from his first in 1983 to his most recent in 2013. Influences include Erich von Däniken and Thor Heyerdahl (as well as Charles Berlitz).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30327722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30327722", "title": "Devonshire Collection of Period Costume", "text": "Devonshire Collection of Period Costume\n\nThe Devonshire Collection of Period Costume is a collection of historic costumes housed in the Totnes Fashion and Textiles Museum in the town of Totnes, south Devon, in southwest England.\n\nThe collection includes clothing for men, women, and children, dating from the 18th century to the end of the 20th century. An annually updated exhibition is displayed in Bogan House, a Tudor merchant's house at 43 High Street, Totnes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13012779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13012779", "title": "Diego de Gardoqui", "text": "Diego de Gardoqui\n\nDiego María de Gardoqui y Arriquibar (born November 12, 1735, Bilbao, Spain – d. 1798, Madrid, Spain) was a Spanish politician and diplomat.\n\nDiego de Gardoqui, the fourth of eight children, was the financial intermediary between the Spanish Court and the Colonies during the American Revolutionary War, meeting with John Jay on various occasions. He was a Basque and a member of the wealthy Gardoqui family of Bilbao, Spain. The mercantile business of \"José de Gardoqui e Hijos\" in Bilbao (of which Diego was one of three sons in a partnership with their father) supplied the patriots with 215 bronze cannon, 30,000 muskets, 30,000 bayonets, 51,314 musket balls, 300,000 pounds of powder, 12,868 grenades, 30,000 uniforms, and 4,000 field tents during the war. After the Revolution he became Spain's envoy to the United States. He arrived in New York in the Spring of 1785. In the summer of 1786, he and Jay, who was Secretary for Foreign Affairs under the Articles of Confederation, worked up a treaty in which the United States would receive a commercial treaty with Spain in exchange for giving up its claims to free navigation of the Mississippi. Although Jay backed the treaty, congress never ratified it.\n\nGardoqui continued as Spain's Minister to the United States until he returned to Bilbao in October, 1789. He attended George Washington's inaugural address and pronounced it \"an eloquent and appropriate address.\" In honor of the inauguration, Gardoqui decorated the front of his house on Broadway in New York City, near Bowling Green, \"with two magnificent transparent gardens, adorned with statues, natural size, imitating marble... There were also various flower-pots, different arches with foliage and columns of imitation marble, and on the sky of these gardens were placed thirteen stars, representing the United States of America—two of which stars showed opaque, to designate the two States which had not adopted the Constitution.\"\n\nIn the early years after the Revolutionary War when congress and the president resided in New York City, Gardoqui's house was also the meeting place of the first Catholic dignitaries representing their countries. There Mass was said for the congregation composed of such men as representatives of France, Spain, and Portugal, as well as Charles Carroll, his cousin Daniel, and Thomas Fitzsimmons, Catholic members of Congress, officers and soldiers of the foreign contingent, merchants and others. Diego de Gardoqui laid the cornerstone of St. Peter's, the first permanent structure for a Catholic church erected in the State of New York, on October 5, 1785. The church first opened on November 4, 1786.\n\nBecause Spain was in control of the Louisiana Territory, Gardoqui worked to protect the King's interests on the Mississippi River. Various factions in Kentucky were frustrated with congress' refusal to allow them statehood. Gardoqui worked with John Brown and General James Wilkinson in 1788 to procure a treaty between Kentucky and Spain concerning navigation on the River. In the end, of course, Kentucky joined the United States and there was no separate treaty. Gardoqui also worked with Colonel George Morgan and Benjamin Harrison in 1788 and 1789. They had been attempting to buy land in Illinois from the United States government with no success. Morgan and Gardoqui worked out an agreement whereby west of the Mississippi, south from its junction with the Ohio, and north of the St. Francis River would be deeded to American settlers. Morgan was to be the commander of the colony, subject to the king of Spain. Settlers would have religious freedom and some degree of autonomy. The new colony was to be called \"New Madrid.\" However, the Spanish governor at New Orleans, although somewhat in favor of the project, refused to allow self-government and required that all settlers be Catholic, and the settlement never saw fruition as a Spanish colony.\n\nGeorge Washington said of Gardoqui on August 10, 1790, \"... no man in his most Catholic Majesty's dominions could be more acceptable to the Inhabitants of these States.\" Gardoqui gave Washington a four-volume edition in the original Spanish of \"Don Quixote\" as a present. The set of volumes still exists and is preserved at Washington's personal library, which opened as a museum on September 27, 2013.\n\nHe married Brígida Josefa de Orueta y Uriarte on December 6, 1765, in Vitoria, Spain.\n\nGardoqui served under the Bourbon kings Charles III of Spain and Charles IV of Spain. Gardoqui, as a Spanish diplomat, operated under the ministry of José Moñino, 1st Count of Floridablanca. He became Finance Minister in 1791, when Minister Pedro López de Lerena, Count of Lerena, suffered an important illness. Gardoqui was officially named Finance Minister after the death of Count de Lerena, in 1792.\n\nGardoqui was the Spanish counterparty to the Jay–Gardoqui Treaty of 1789, negotiated by John Jay of the United States, relating to the navigational rights of Spain in the Mississippi River. Gardoqui, in 1785–86, had arranged for a Spanish horse to be sent to Jay.\n\nIn 1785, Gardoqui laid the cornerstone of the first Catholic Church in New York City, St. Peter's on Barclay Street.\n\nAfter Gardoqui returned to Spain in 1788, he was later succeeded in the United States by two diplomats, José de Jaudenes y Nebot and José Igancio de Viar (serving as chargés d'affaires to the U.S.), both of whom had served on Gardoqui's own staff during his 1785–1788 tenure.\n\nThere is a \"Calle Gardoqui\" in Bilbao, Spain, but this has been named after his brother, Cardinal Francisco Gardoqui (1747–1820).\n\nThe city of Constitución, Chile was originally named \"Nueva Bilbao de Gardoqui\" in his honor.\n\nThere was a World War II-era ship in the United States Navy, the that honored the Gardoqui family of Bilbao, Spain. It, in turn, had been named for a U.S. ship, the USS \"Gardoqui\" (1898), that had seen action in the Spanish–American War.\n\nIn 1977, the Spanish Crown, in commemoration of the Bicentennial of the United States, presented a statue of Don Diego de Gardoqui, crafted by Spanish artist Luis Antonio Sanguino (b. 1934, Barcelona, Spain), to the City of Philadelphia. The statue currently stands in Logan Square.\n\n"}
{"id": "46721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46721", "title": "Edward VII", "text": "Edward VII\n\nEdward VII (Albert Edward; 9 November 1841 – 6 May 1910) was King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and Emperor of India from 22 January 1901 until his death in 1910.\n\nThe eldest son of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, Edward was related to royalty throughout Europe. He was heir apparent to the British throne and held the title of Prince of Wales for longer than any of his predecessors. He was heir presumptive to the Duchy of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha until before his marriage he renounced his right to the duchy, which then devolved to his younger brother Alfred. During the long reign of his mother, he was largely excluded from political power, and came to personify the fashionable, leisured elite. He travelled throughout Britain performing ceremonial public duties, and represented Britain on visits abroad. His tours of North America in 1860 and the Indian subcontinent in 1875 were popular successes, but despite public approval his reputation as a playboy prince soured his relationship with his mother.\n\nAs king, Edward played a role in the modernisation of the British Home Fleet and the reorganisation of the British Army after the Second Boer War. He reinstituted traditional ceremonies as public displays and broadened the range of people with whom royalty socialised. He fostered good relations between Britain and other European countries, especially France, for which he was popularly called \"Peacemaker\", but his relationship with his nephew, the German Emperor Wilhelm II, was poor. The Edwardian era, which covered Edward's reign and was named after him, coincided with the start of a new century and heralded significant changes in technology and society, including steam turbine propulsion and the rise of socialism. He died in 1910 in the midst of a constitutional crisis that was resolved the following year by the Parliament Act 1911, which restricted the power of the unelected House of Lords.\n\nEdward was born at 10:48 in the morning on 9 November 1841 in Buckingham Palace. He was the eldest son and second child of Queen Victoria and her husband Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. He was christened \"Albert Edward\" at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, on 25 January 1842. He was named Albert after his father and Edward after his maternal grandfather Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn. He was known as \"Bertie\" to the royal family throughout his life.\n\nAs the eldest son of the British sovereign, he was automatically Duke of Cornwall and Duke of Rothesay at birth. As a son of Prince Albert, he also held the titles of Prince of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha and Duke of Saxony. He was created Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester on 8 December 1841, Earl of Dublin on 10 September 1849 or 17 January 1850, a Knight of the Garter on 9 November 1858, and a Knight of the Thistle on 24 May 1867. In 1863, he renounced his succession rights to the Duchy of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha in favour of his younger brother, Prince Alfred.\n\nQueen Victoria and Prince Albert were determined that their eldest son should have an education that would prepare him to be a model constitutional monarch. At age seven, Edward embarked on a rigorous educational programme devised by Prince Albert, and supervised by several tutors. Unlike his elder sister Victoria, Edward did not excel in his studies. He tried to meet the expectations of his parents, but to no avail. Although Edward was not a diligent student—his true talents were those of charm, sociability and tact—Benjamin Disraeli described him as informed, intelligent and of sweet manner. After the completion of his secondary-level studies, his tutor was replaced by a personal governor, Robert Bruce.\n\nAfter an educational trip to Rome, undertaken in the first few months of 1859, he spent the summer of that year studying at the University of Edinburgh under, among others, the chemist Lyon Playfair. In October, he matriculated as an undergraduate at Christ Church, Oxford. Now released from the educational strictures imposed by his parents, he enjoyed studying for the first time and performed satisfactorily in examinations. In 1861, he transferred to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he was tutored in history by Charles Kingsley, Regius Professor of Modern History. Kingsley's efforts brought forth the best academic performances of Edward's life, and Edward actually looked forward to his lectures.\n\nIn 1860, Edward undertook the first tour of North America by a Prince of Wales. His genial good humour and confident \"bonhomie\" made the tour a great success. He inaugurated the Victoria Bridge, Montreal, across the St Lawrence River, and laid the cornerstone of Parliament Hill, Ottawa. He watched Charles Blondin traverse Niagara Falls by highwire, and stayed for three days with President James Buchanan at the White House. Buchanan accompanied the Prince to Mount Vernon, to pay his respects at the tomb of George Washington. Vast crowds greeted him everywhere. He met Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Ralph Waldo Emerson and Oliver Wendell Holmes. Prayers for the royal family were said in Trinity Church, New York, for the first time since 1776. The four-month tour throughout Canada and the United States considerably boosted Edward's confidence and self-esteem, and had many diplomatic benefits for Great Britain.\n\nEdward had hoped to pursue a career in the British Army, but his mother vetoed an active military career. He had been gazetted colonel on 9 November 1858—to his disappointment, as he had wanted to earn his commission by examination. In September 1861, Edward was sent to Germany, supposedly to watch military manoeuvres, but actually in order to engineer a meeting between him and Princess Alexandra of Denmark, the eldest daughter of Prince Christian of Denmark and his wife Louise. Queen Victoria and Prince Albert had already decided that Edward and Alexandra should marry. They met at Speyer on 24 September under the auspices of his elder sister, Victoria, who had married the Crown Prince of Prussia in 1858. Edward's elder sister, acting upon instructions from their mother, had met Princess Alexandra at Strelitz in June; the young Danish princess made a very favourable impression. Edward and Alexandra were friendly from the start; the meeting went well for both sides, and marriage plans advanced.\n\nFrom this time, Edward gained a reputation as a playboy. Determined to get some army experience, Edward attended manoeuvres in Ireland, during which he spent three nights with an actress, Nellie Clifden, who was hidden in the camp by his fellow officers. Prince Albert, though ill, was appalled and visited Edward at Cambridge to issue a reprimand. Albert died in December 1861 just two weeks after the visit. Queen Victoria was inconsolable, wore mourning clothes for the rest of her life and blamed Edward for his father's death. At first, she regarded her son with distaste as frivolous, indiscreet and irresponsible. She wrote to her eldest daughter, \"I never can, or shall, look at him without a shudder.\"\n\nOnce widowed, Queen Victoria effectively withdrew from public life. Shortly after Prince Albert's death, the queen arranged for Edward to embark on an extensive tour of the Middle East, visiting Egypt, Jerusalem, Damascus, Beirut and Constantinople. The British Government wanted Edward to secure the friendship of Egypt's ruler, Said Pasha, to prevent French control of the Suez Canal if the Ottoman Empire collapsed. It was the first royal tour on which an official photographer, Francis Bedford, was in attendance. As soon as Edward returned to Britain, preparations were made for his engagement, which was sealed at Laeken in Belgium on 9 September 1862. Edward married Princess Alexandra of Denmark at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, on 10 March 1863. He was 21; she was 18.\n\nThe couple established Marlborough House as their London residence and Sandringham House in Norfolk as their country retreat. They entertained on a lavish scale. Their marriage met with disapproval in certain circles because most of Queen Victoria's relations were German, and Denmark was at loggerheads with Germany over the territories of Schleswig and Holstein. When Alexandra's father inherited the throne of Denmark in November 1863, the German Confederation took the opportunity to invade and annex Schleswig-Holstein. Queen Victoria was of two minds whether it was a suitable match given the political climate. After the marriage, she expressed anxiety about their socialite lifestyle and attempted to dictate to them on various matters, including the names of their children.\n\nEdward had mistresses throughout his married life. He socialised with actress Lillie Langtry; Lady Randolph Churchill; Daisy Greville, Countess of Warwick; actress Sarah Bernhardt; noblewoman Lady Susan Vane-Tempest; singer Hortense Schneider; prostitute Giulia Beneni (known as \"La Barucci\"); wealthy humanitarian Agnes Keyser; and Alice Keppel. At least fifty-five liaisons are conjectured. How far these relationships went is not always clear. Edward always strove to be discreet, but this did not prevent society gossip or press speculation. Keppel's great-granddaughter, Camilla Parker Bowles, became the mistress and subsequent wife of Charles, Prince of Wales, Edward's great-great-grandson. It was rumoured that Camilla's grandmother, Sonia Keppel, was fathered by Edward, but she was \"almost certainly\" the daughter of George Keppel, whom she resembled. Edward never acknowledged any illegitimate children. Alexandra was aware of his affairs, even befriending several of his lady friends.\n\nIn 1869, Sir Charles Mordaunt, a British Member of Parliament, threatened to name Edward as co-respondent in his divorce suit. Ultimately, he did not do so but Edward was called as a witness in the case in early 1870. It was shown that Edward had visited the Mordaunts' house while Sir Charles was away sitting in the House of Commons. Although nothing further was proven and Edward denied he had committed adultery, the suggestion of impropriety was damaging.\n\nDuring Queen Victoria's widowhood, Edward pioneered the idea of royal public appearances as we understand them today—for example, opening the Thames Embankment in 1871, the Mersey Tunnel in 1886, and Tower Bridge in 1894—but his mother did not allow Edward an active role in the running of the country until 1898. He was sent summaries of important government documents, but she refused to give him access to the originals. He annoyed his mother by siding with Denmark on the Schleswig-Holstein Question in 1864 (she was pro-German) and in the same year annoyed her again by making a special effort to meet Giuseppe Garibaldi. Liberal Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone sent him papers secretly. From 1886, Foreign Secretary Lord Rosebery sent him Foreign Office despatches, and from 1892 some Cabinet papers were opened to him.\n\nIn 1870 republican sentiment in Britain was given a boost when the French Emperor, Napoleon III, was defeated in the Franco-Prussian War and the French Third Republic was declared. However, in the winter of 1871, a brush with death led to an improvement in both Edward's popularity with the public and his relationship with his mother. While staying at Londesborough Lodge, near Scarborough, North Yorkshire, Edward contracted typhoid, the disease that was believed to have killed his father. There was great national concern, and one of his fellow guests (Lord Chesterfield) died. Edward's recovery was greeted with almost universal relief. Public celebrations included the composition of Arthur Sullivan's Festival Te Deum. Edward cultivated politicians from all parties, including republicans, as his friends, and thereby largely dissipated any residual feelings against him.\nOn 26 September 1875, Edward set off for India on an extensive eight-month tour; on the way, he visited Malta, Brindisi and Greece. His advisors remarked on his habit of treating all people the same, regardless of their social station or colour. In letters home, he complained of the treatment of the native Indians by the British officials: \"Because a man has a black face and a different religion from our own, there is no reason why he should be treated as a brute.\" Consequently, Lord Salisbury, the Secretary of State for India, issued new guidance and at least one resident was removed from office. He returned to England on 11 May 1876, after stopping off at Portugal. At the end of the tour, Queen Victoria was given the title Empress of India by Parliament, in part as a result of the tour's success.\n\nEdward was regarded worldwide as an arbiter of men's fashions. He made wearing tweed, Homburg hats and Norfolk jackets fashionable, and popularised the wearing of black ties with dinner jackets, instead of white tie and tails. He pioneered the pressing of trouser legs from side to side in preference to the now normal front and back creases, and was thought to have introduced the stand-up turn-down shirt collar, created for him by Charvet. A stickler for proper dress, he is said to have admonished Lord Salisbury for wearing the trousers of an Elder Brother of Trinity House with a Privy Councillor's coat. Deep in an international crisis, Salisbury informed the Prince that it had been a dark morning, and that \"my mind must have been occupied by some subject of less importance.\" The tradition of men not buttoning the bottom button of waistcoats is said to be linked to Edward, who supposedly left his undone because of his large girth. His waist measured 48 inches (122 cm) shortly before his coronation. He introduced the practice of eating roast beef and potatoes with horseradish sauce and yorkshire pudding on Sundays, a meal that remains a staple British favourite for Sunday lunch. He was not a heavy drinker, though he did drink champagne and, occasionally, port.\n\nEdward was a patron of the arts and sciences and helped found the Royal College of Music. He opened the college in 1883 with the words, \"Class can no longer stand apart from class ... I claim for music that it produces that union of feeling which I much desire to promote.\" At the same time, he enjoyed gambling and country sports and was an enthusiastic hunter. He ordered all the clocks at Sandringham to run half an hour ahead to provide more daylight time for shooting. This so-called tradition of Sandringham Time continued until 1936, when it was abolished by Edward VIII. He also laid out a golf course at Windsor. By the 1870s the future king had taken a keen interest in horseracing and steeplechasing. In 1896, his horse Persimmon won both the Derby Stakes and the St Leger Stakes. In 1900, Persimmon's brother, Diamond Jubilee, won five races (Derby, St Leger, 2,000 Guineas Stakes, Newmarket Stakes and Eclipse Stakes) and another of Edward's horses, Ambush II, won the Grand National.\nIn 1891 Edward was embroiled in the royal baccarat scandal, when it was revealed he had played an illegal card game for money the previous year. The Prince was forced to appear as a witness in court for a second time when one of the participants unsuccessfully sued his fellow players for slander after being accused of cheating. In the same year Edward was involved in a personal conflict, when Lord Charles Beresford threatened to reveal details of Edward's private life to the press, as a protest against Edward interfering with Beresford's affair with Daisy Greville, Countess of Warwick. The friendship between the two men was irreversibly damaged, and their bitterness would last for the remainder of their lives. Usually, Edward's outbursts of temper were short-lived, and \"after he had let himself go ... [he would] smooth matters by being especially nice\".\n\nIn late 1891, Edward's eldest son, Albert Victor, was engaged to Princess Victoria Mary of Teck. Just a few weeks later, in early 1892, Albert Victor died of pneumonia. Edward was grief-stricken. \"To lose our eldest son\", he wrote, \"is one of those calamities one can never really get over\". Edward told Queen Victoria, \"[I would] have given my life for him, as I put no value on mine\". Albert Victor was the second of Edward's children to die. In 1871, his youngest son, Alexander John, had died just 24 hours after being born. Edward had insisted on placing Alexander John in a coffin personally with \"the tears rolling down his cheeks\".\n\nOn his way to Denmark through Belgium on 4 April 1900, Edward was the victim of an attempted assassination when fifteen-year-old Jean-Baptiste Sipido shot at him in protest over the Second Boer War. Sipido, though obviously guilty, was acquitted by a Belgian court because he was underage. The perceived laxity of the Belgian authorities, combined with British disgust at Belgian atrocities in the Congo, worsened the already poor relations between the United Kingdom and the Continent. However, in the next ten years, Edward's affability and popularity, as well as his use of family connections, assisted Britain in building European alliances.\n\nWhen Queen Victoria died on 22 January 1901, Edward became King of the United Kingdom, Emperor of India and, in an innovation, King of the British Dominions. He chose to reign under the name Edward VII, instead of Albert Edward—the name his mother had intended for him to use—declaring that he did not wish to \"undervalue the name of Albert\" and diminish the status of his father with whom the \"name should stand alone\". The numeral VII was occasionally omitted in Scotland, even by the national church, in deference to protests that the previous Edwards were English kings who had \"been excluded from Scotland by battle\". J. B. Priestley recalled, \"I was only a child when he succeeded Victoria in 1901, but I can testify to his extraordinary popularity. He was in fact the most popular king England had known since the earlier 1660s.\"\n\nHe donated his parents' house, Osborne on the Isle of Wight, to the state and continued to live at Sandringham. He could afford to be magnanimous; his private secretary, Sir Francis Knollys, claimed that he was the first heir to succeed to the throne in credit. Edward's finances had been ably managed by Sir Dighton Probyn, Comptroller of the Household, and had benefited from advice from Edward's Jewish financier friends, such as Ernest Cassel, Maurice de Hirsch and the Rothschild family. At a time of widespread anti-Semitism, Edward attracted criticism for openly socialising with Jews.\n\nEdward's coronation had originally been scheduled for 26 June 1902. However, two days before, on 24 June, he was diagnosed with appendicitis. Appendicitis was generally not treated operatively and carried a high mortality rate, but developments in anaesthesia and antisepsis in the preceding 50 years made life-saving surgery possible. Sir Frederick Treves, with the support of Lord Lister, performed a then-radical operation of draining a pint of pus from the infected abscess through a small incision (through -inch thickness of belly fat and abdomen wall); this outcome showed thankfully that the cause was not cancer. The next day, Edward was sitting up in bed, smoking a cigar. Two weeks later, it was announced that the King was out of danger. Treves was honoured with a baronetcy (which the King had arranged before the operation) and appendix surgery entered the medical mainstream. Edward was crowned at Westminster Abbey on 9 August 1902 by the 80-year-old Archbishop of Canterbury, Frederick Temple, who died only four months later.\n\nEdward refurbished the royal palaces, reintroduced the traditional ceremonies, such as the State Opening of Parliament, that his mother had forgone, and founded new honours, such as the Order of Merit, to recognise contributions to the arts and sciences. In 1902, the Shah of Persia, Mozzafar-al-Din, visited England expecting to receive the Order of the Garter. Edward refused to bestow the honour on the Shah because the order was meant to be in his personal gift and the Foreign Secretary, Lord Lansdowne, had promised it without his consent. Edward also objected to inducting a Muslim into a Christian order of chivalry. His refusal threatened to damage British attempts to gain influence in Persia, but Edward resented his ministers' attempts to reduce the King's traditional powers. Eventually, he relented and Britain sent a special embassy to the Shah with a full Order of the Garter the following year.\n\nAs king, Edward's main interests lay in the fields of foreign affairs and naval and military matters. Fluent in French and German, he reinvented royal diplomacy by numerous state visits across Europe. He took annual holidays in Biarritz and Marienbad. One of his most important foreign trips was an official visit to France in May 1903 as the guest of President Émile Loubet. Following a visit to Pope Leo XIII in Rome, this trip helped create the atmosphere for the Anglo-French Entente Cordiale, an agreement delineating British and French colonies in North Africa, and ruling out any future war between the two countries. The Entente was negotiated in 1904 between the French foreign minister, Théophile Delcassé, and the British foreign secretary, Lord Lansdowne. It marked the end of centuries of Anglo-French rivalry and Britain's splendid isolation from Continental affairs, and attempted to counterbalance the growing dominance of the German Empire and its ally, Austria-Hungary.\n\nEdward was related to nearly every other European monarch, and came to be known as the \"uncle of Europe\". German Emperor Wilhelm II and Emperor Nicholas II of Russia were his nephews; Queen Victoria Eugenia of Spain, Crown Princess Margaret of Sweden, Crown Princess Marie of Romania, Crown Princess Sophia of Greece, and Empress Alexandra of Russia were his nieces; King Haakon VII of Norway was both his nephew and his son-in-law; kings Frederick VIII of Denmark and George I of Greece were his brothers-in-law; kings Albert I of Belgium, Ferdinand of Bulgaria, and Charles I and Manuel II of Portugal were his second cousins. Edward doted on his grandchildren, and indulged them, to the consternation of their governesses. However, there was one relation whom Edward did not like: Wilhelm II. Edward's difficult relationship with his nephew exacerbated the tensions between Germany and Britain.\n\nIn April 1908, during Edward's annual stay at Biarritz, he accepted the resignation of British Prime Minister Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman. In a break with precedent, Edward asked Campbell-Bannerman's successor, H. H. Asquith, to travel to Biarritz to kiss hands. Asquith complied, but the press criticised the action of the King in appointing a prime minister on foreign soil instead of returning to Britain. In June 1908, Edward became the first reigning British monarch to visit the Russian Empire, despite refusing to visit in 1906, when Anglo-Russian relations were strained in the aftermath of the Russo-Japanese War, the Dogger Bank incident, and the Tsar's dissolution of the Duma. The previous month, Edward visited the Scandinavian countries, becoming the first British monarch to visit Sweden.\n\nWhile Prince of Wales, Edward had to be dissuaded from breaking with constitutional precedent by openly voting for W. E. Gladstone's Representation of the People Bill (1884) in the House of Lords. On other matters he was less progressive: he did not, for example, favour giving votes to women, although he did suggest that the social reformer Octavia Hill serve on the Commission for Working Class Housing. He was also opposed to Irish Home Rule, instead preferring a form of dual monarchy.\n\nAs Prince of Wales, he had come to enjoy warm and mutually respectful relations with Gladstone, whom his mother detested. But the statesman's son, Home Secretary Herbert Gladstone, angered the King by planning to permit Roman Catholic priests in vestments to carry the Host through the streets of London, and by appointing two ladies, Lady Frances Balfour and Mrs H. J. Tennant, to serve on a Royal Commission on reforming divorce law – Edward thought divorce could not be discussed with \"delicacy or even decency\" before ladies. Edward's biographer Philip Magnus suggests that Gladstone may have become a whipping-boy for the King's general irritation with the Liberal government. Gladstone was sacked in the reshuffle the following year and the King agreed, with some reluctance, to appoint him Governor-General of South Africa.\n\nEdward involved himself heavily in discussions over army reform, the need for which had become apparent with the failings of the Boer War. He supported the redesign of army command, the creation of the Territorial Force, and the decision to provide an Expeditionary Force supporting France in the event of war with Germany. Reform of the Royal Navy was also suggested, partly due to the ever-increasing Naval Estimates, and because of the emergence of the Imperial German Navy as a new strategic threat. Ultimately a dispute arose between Admiral Lord Charles Beresford, who favoured increased spending and a broad deployment, and the First Sea Lord Admiral Sir John Fisher, who favoured efficiency savings, scrapping obsolete vessels, and a strategic realignment of the Royal Navy relying on torpedo craft for home defence backed by the new dreadnoughts.\n\nThe King lent support to Fisher, in part because he disliked Beresford, and eventually Beresford was dismissed. Beresford continued his campaign outside of the navy and Fisher ultimately announced his resignation in late 1909, although the bulk of his policies were retained. The King was intimately involved in the appointment of Fisher's successor as the Fisher-Beresford feud had split the service, and the only truly qualified figure known to be outside of both camps was Sir Arthur Wilson, who had retired in 1907. Wilson was reluctant to return to active duty, but Edward persuaded him to do so, and Wilson became First Sea Lord on 25 January 1910.\n\nEdward was rarely interested in politics, although his views on some issues were notably liberal for the time. During his reign he said use of the word \"nigger\" was \"disgraceful\", despite it then being in common parlance. In 1904, during an Anglo-German summit in Kiel between Wilhelm II and Edward, Wilhelm with the Russo-Japanese War in mind started to go on about the \"Yellow Peril\", which he called \"the greatest peril menacing ... Christendom and European civilisation. If the Russians went on giving ground, the yellow race would, in twenty years time, be in Moscow and Posen\". Wilhelm went on to attack his British guests for supporting Japan against Russia, suggesting that the British were committing \"race treason\". In response, Edward stated that he \"could not see it. The Japanese were an intelligent, brave and chivalrous nation, quite as civilised as the Europeans, from whom they only differed by the pigmentation of their skin\".\n\nEdward lived a life of luxury that was often far removed from that of the majority of his subjects. However, his personal charm with people at all levels of society and his strong condemnation of prejudice went some way to assuage republican and racial tensions building during his lifetime.\n\nIn the last year of his life, Edward became embroiled in a constitutional crisis when the Conservative majority in the House of Lords refused to pass the \"People's Budget\" proposed by the Liberal government of Prime Minister H. H. Asquith. The crisis eventually led—after Edward's death—to the removal of the Lords' right to veto legislation.\n\nThe King was displeased at Liberal attacks on the peers, which included a polemical speech by David Lloyd George at Limehouse. Cabinet minister Winston Churchill publicly demanded a general election, for which Asquith apologised to the King's adviser Lord Knollys and rebuked Churchill at a Cabinet meeting. Edward was so dispirited at the tone of class warfare—although Asquith told him that party rancour had been just as bad over the First Home Rule Bill in 1886—that he introduced his son to Secretary of State for War Richard Haldane as \"the last King of England\". After the King's horse Minoru won the Derby on 26 July 1909, he returned to the racetrack the following day, and laughed when a man shouted: \"Now, King. You've won the Derby. Go back home and dissolve this bloody Parliament!\"\n\nIn vain, the King urged Conservative leaders Arthur Balfour and Lord Lansdowne to pass the Budget, which Lord Esher had advised him was not unusual, as Queen Victoria had helped to broker agreements between the two Houses over Irish disestablishment in 1869 and the Third Reform Act in 1884. On Asquith's advice, however, he did not offer them an election (at which, to judge from recent by-elections, they were likely to gain seats) as a reward for doing so.\n\nThe Finance Bill passed the Commons on 5 November 1909, but was rejected by the Lords on 30 November; they instead passed a resolution of Lord Lansdowne's stating that they were entitled to oppose the bill as it lacked an electoral mandate. The King was annoyed that his efforts to urge passage of the budget had become public knowledge and had forbidden his adviser Lord Knollys, who was an active Liberal peer, from voting for the budget, although Knollys had suggested that this would be a suitable gesture to indicate royal desire to see the Budget pass. In December 1909, a proposal to create peers (to give the Liberals a majority in the Lords) or give the prime minister the right to do so was considered \"outrageous\" by Knollys, who thought the King should abdicate rather than agree to it.\n\nThe January 1910 election was dominated by talk of removing the Lords' veto. During the election campaign Lloyd George talked of \"guarantees\" and Asquith of \"safeguards\" that would be necessary before forming another Liberal government, but the King informed Asquith that he would not be willing to contemplate creating peers until after a second general election. Balfour refused to be drawn on whether or not he would be willing to form a Conservative government, but advised the King not to promise to create peers until he had seen the terms of any proposed constitutional change. During the campaign the leading Conservative Walter Long had asked Knollys for permission to state that the King did not favour Irish Home Rule, but Knollys refused on the grounds that it was not appropriate for the monarch's views to be known in public.\n\nThe election resulted in a hung parliament, with the Liberal government dependent on the support of the third largest party, the Irish nationalists. The King suggested a compromise whereby only 50 peers from each side would be allowed to vote, which would also redress the large Conservative majority in the Lords, but Lord Crewe, Liberal leader in the Lords, advised that this would reduce the Lords' independence as only peers who were loyal party supporters would be picked. Pressure to remove the Lords' veto now came from the Irish nationalist MPs, who wanted to remove the Lords' ability to block the introduction of Irish Home Rule. They threatened to vote against the Budget unless they had their way (an attempt by Lloyd George to win their support by amending whiskey duties was abandoned as the Cabinet felt this would recast the Budget too much). Asquith now revealed that there were no \"guarantees\" for the creation of peers. The Cabinet considered resigning and leaving it up to Balfour to try to form a Conservative government.\n\nThe King's Speech from the Throne on 21 February made reference to introducing measures restricting the Lords' power of veto to one of delay, but Asquith inserted a phrase \"in the opinion of my advisers\" so the King could be seen to be distancing himself from the planned legislation.\n\nThe Commons passed resolutions on 14 April that would form the basis for the 1911 Parliament Act: to remove the power of the Lords to veto money bills, to replace their veto of other bills with a power to delay, and to reduce the term of Parliament from seven years to five (the King would have preferred four). But in that debate Asquith hinted – to ensure the support of the nationalist MPs – that he would ask the King to break the deadlock \"in that Parliament\" (i.e. contrary to Edward's earlier stipulation that there be a second election). The Budget was passed by both Commons and Lords in April.\n\nBy April the Palace was having secret talks with Balfour and the Archbishop of Canterbury, who both advised that the Liberals did not have sufficient mandate to demand the creation of peers. The King thought the whole proposal \"simply disgusting\" and that the government was \"in the hands of Redmond & Co\". Lord Crewe announced publicly that the government's wish to create peers should be treated as formal \"ministerial advice\" (which, by convention, the monarch must obey) although Lord Esher argued that the monarch was entitled \"in extremis\" to dismiss the government rather than take their \"advice\". Esher's view has been called \"obsolete and unhelpful\".\n\nEdward habitually smoked twenty cigarettes and twelve cigars a day. In 1907, a rodent ulcer, a type of cancer affecting the skin next to his nose, was cured with radium. Towards the end of his life he increasingly suffered from bronchitis. He suffered a momentary loss of consciousness during a state visit to Berlin in February 1909. In March 1910, he was staying at Biarritz when he collapsed. He remained there to convalesce, while in London Asquith tried to get the Finance Bill passed. The King's continued ill health was unreported and he attracted criticism for staying in France while political tensions were so high. On 27 April he returned to Buckingham Palace, still suffering from severe bronchitis. Alexandra returned from visiting her brother, King George I of Greece, in Corfu a week later on 5 May.\n\nThe following day, the King suffered several heart attacks, but refused to go to bed, saying, \"No, I shall not give in; I shall go on; I shall work to the end.\" Between moments of faintness, his son the Prince of Wales (shortly to be King George V) told him that his horse, Witch of the Air, had won at Kempton Park that afternoon. The King replied, \"Yes, I have heard of it. I am very glad\": his final words. At 11:30 p.m. he lost consciousness for the last time and was put to bed. He died 15 minutes later.\n\nAlexandra refused to allow the King's body to be moved for eight days afterwards, though she allowed small groups of visitors to enter his room. On 11 May, the late King was dressed in his uniform and placed in a massive oak coffin, which was moved on 14 May to the throne room, where it was sealed and lay in state, with four guardsmen standing at each corner of the bier. Despite the time that had elapsed since his death, Alexandra noted the King's body remained \"wonderfully preserved\". On the morning of 17 May, the coffin was placed on a gun carriage and drawn by black horses to Westminster Hall, with the new King and his family walking behind. Following a brief service, the royal family left, and the hall was opened to the public; over 400,000 people filed past the coffin over the next two days.\n\nAs Barbara Tuchman noted in \"The Guns of August\", his funeral, held on 20 May 1910, marked \"the greatest assemblage of royalty and rank ever gathered in one place and, of its kind, the last.\" A royal train conveyed the King's coffin from London to Windsor Castle, where Edward VII was buried at St George's Chapel.\n\nBefore his accession to the throne, Edward was the longest-serving heir apparent in British history. He was surpassed by his great-great-grandson Prince Charles on 20 April 2011. The title Prince of Wales is not automatically held by the heir apparent; it is bestowed by the reigning monarch at a time of his or her choosing. Edward was the longest-serving holder of that title until surpassed by Charles on 9 September 2017; Edward was Prince of Wales between 8 December 1841 and 22 January 1901 (59 years, 45 days). Charles was created Prince of Wales on 26 July 1958 ( ago).\n\nAs king, Edward VII proved a greater success than anyone had expected, but he was already past the average life expectancy and had little time left to fulfil the role. In his short reign, he ensured that his second son and heir, George V, was better prepared to take the throne. Contemporaries described their relationship as more like affectionate brothers than father and son, and on Edward's death George wrote in his diary that he had lost his \"best friend and the best of fathers ... I never had a [cross] word with him in my life. I am heart-broken and overwhelmed with grief\".\n\nEdward has been recognised as the first truly constitutional British sovereign and the last sovereign to wield effective political power. Though lauded as \"Peacemaker\", he had been afraid his nephew, the German Emperor Wilhelm II, would tip Europe into war. Four years after Edward's death, World War I broke out. The naval reforms he had supported and his part in securing the Triple Entente between Britain, France and Russia, as well as his relationships with his extended family, fed the paranoia of the German Emperor, who blamed Edward for the war. Publication of the official biography of Edward was delayed until 1927 by its author, Sidney Lee, who feared German propagandists would select material to portray Edward as an anti-German warmonger. Lee was also hampered by the extensive destruction of Edward's personal papers; Edward had left orders that all his letters should be burned on his death. Subsequent biographers have been able to construct a more rounded picture of Edward by using material and sources that were unavailable to Lee.\n\nHistorian R. C. K. Ensor, writing in 1936, praised the King's political personality:\n\nEnsor rejects the widespread notion that the King exerted important influence on British foreign policy. Ensor believed Edward gained that reputation by making frequent trips abroad, with many highly publicized visits to foreign courts, but surviving documents paint a different picture of \"how comparatively crude his views on foreign policy were, how little he read, and of what naïve indiscretions he was capable.\"\n\nEdward received criticism for his apparent pursuit of self-indulgent pleasure, but he received great praise for his affable manners and diplomatic tact. As his grandson Edward VIII wrote, \"his lighter side ... obscured the fact that he had both insight and influence.\" \"He had a tremendous zest for pleasure but he also had a real sense of duty\", wrote J. B. Priestley. Lord Esher wrote that Edward was \"kind and debonair and not undignified – but too human\".\n\n\n\n\n\nEdward's coat of arms as the Prince of Wales was the royal arms differenced by a label of three points argent, and an inescutcheon of the Duchy of Saxony, representing his paternal arms. When he acceded as King, he gained the royal arms undifferenced.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57137513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57137513", "title": "Emma Bartoniek", "text": "Emma Bartoniek\n\nEmma Bartoniek (28 November 1894 – 31 May 1957) was a Hungarian historian and bibliographer who specialised in medieval history, primarily the age of Árpád (c. 895 – c. 907).\n\nEmma Bartoniek was born in Budapest as the daughter of physician and educator Géza Bartoniek and Ilona Szumrák. Her brother Emil Bartoniek became a physician and instructor. He died fighting in World War I.\n\nBartoniek got a Master of Arts degree at Budapest University in 1917.\n\nBetween 1916-1934 Emma Bartoniek was an apprentice and libararian at the National Széchényi Library, meanwhile she was also the guest researcher of the Hungarian Historical Institute at Vienna between 1925-1926.\n\nAfter her apprenticeship, she was the manager of the Library's manuscripts collection from 1934. She was dismissed from her job in 1945. Bartoniek was the committee member of the Hungarian Historical Society from 1933 and the Hungarian Armorial and Genealogical Association from 1935.\n\nEmma Bartoniek worked on the history of royal coronations between 895 and 907, examined the problems of the 10-13th century Hungarian succession. Her ascertainments about the first Hungarian laws and legends from the age of Árpád are particularly valuable. Bartoniek published the catalogue of the National Széchényi Library's Latin codices. Her work about the Hungarian historiography remained in manuscript form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1401089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1401089", "title": "Eutropius (historian)", "text": "Eutropius (historian)\n\nFlavius Eutropius was an Ancient Roman historian who flourished in the latter half of the 4th century AD. \n\nEutropius held the office of secretary (\"magister memoriae\") at Constantinople, accompanied the Emperor Julian (361–363) on his expedition against the Persians (363), and was alive during the reign of Valens (364–378), to whom he dedicates his \"Breviarium historiae Romanae\" and where his history ends. Possibly he held higher state offices in later years, becoming Praetorian prefect for Illyria in 380 and - together with emperor Valentinian II - consul in 387. However, it is a question of academic discussion whether the Eutropius holding these offices is really to be identified with the historian.\n\nEutropius reportedly hailed from Bordeaux, and was almost certainly a pagan, which he remained even under emperor Julian's successors.\n\nThe \"Breviarium historiae Romanae\" is a complete compendium, in ten chapters, of Roman history from the foundation of the city to the accession of Valens. It was compiled with considerable care from the best accessible authorities, and is written generally with impartiality, and in a clear and simple style. It was much used by other Roman chroniclers. Although the Latin in some instances differs from that of the purest models, the work was for a long time a favorite elementary school-book. Its independent value is small, but it sometimes fills a gap left by the more authoritative records. For the Republican period, Eutropius depended upon an epitome of Livy; for the later parts, he appears to have used Suetonius and the now lost \"Enmannsche Kaisergeschichte\". For the end he could also make use of his own personal experience. The \"Breviarium\" was enlarged and continued down to the time of Eastern Roman Emperor Justinian the Great by Paulus Diaconus; the work of the latter was in turn enlarged by Landolfus Sagax (c. 1000), and taken down to the time of the emperor Leo the Armenian (813–820) in the \"Historia Miscella\".\n\nOf the Greek translations by Paeanius (around 380) and Capito Lycius (6th century), the version of the former is extant in an almost complete state. The best edition of Eutropius is by H. Droysen (1879), containing the Greek version and the enlarged editions of Paulus Diaconus and Landolfus. There are also numerous English editions and translations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5667751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5667751", "title": "Filippo Villani", "text": "Filippo Villani\n\nFilippo Villani (fl. end of the 14th and the beginning of the 15th century) was a chronicler of Florence. Son of the chronicler Matteo Villani, he extended the original \"Nuova Cronica\" of his uncle Giovanni Villani down to 1364.\n\nFilippo Villani held a chair of jurisprudence in the Studio at Florence in 1361. He was also appointed chancellor of the medieval commune of Perugia in 1377, and would remain in office for the next six years. In his old age, he spent his time in Florence as public reader of the \"Divine Comedy\" by the Florentine Dante Alighieri. Accepting this job in 1392, he was given an annual stipend of 150 gold florins.\n\nVillani's chronicles were approved by the Chancellor of Florence, Coluccio Salutati, who made corrections to the work and added commentary. The second edition of Villani's histories came out in either 1395 or 1396. Filippo Villani's portion includes details of the lives of many Florentine artists and musicians, including Giotto and Francesco Landini.\n\n"}
{"id": "20022028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20022028", "title": "Forgotten Chicago", "text": "Forgotten Chicago\n\nForgotten Chicago is an organization that seeks to discover and document little known elements of Chicago’s infrastructure, architecture, neighborhoods and general cityscape, whether existing or historical.\n\nThe organization exposes many of these often overlooked elements of Chicago’s built environment to a wide audience to increase interest in their preservation. In addition to conducting research and publishing articles on their website, Forgotten Chicago also leads neighborhood walking tours and holds free presentations at area libraries. \nForgotten Chicago has received many accolades including being named one of \"Chicago Magazine\"'s 171 best Chicago websites in February 2008 and being featured in the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"The Northwest Indiana Times\", \"Time Out Chicago\", and local radio.\n\nTheir web presence underwent a major re-design in January 2009 with feature improvements, revised and updated content, and more ways for the public to get involved with the organization through Twitter and Facebook.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1128052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128052", "title": "Geoffrey Elton", "text": "Geoffrey Elton\n\nSir Geoffrey Rudolph Elton (born Gottfried Rudolf Otto Ehrenberg; 17 August 1921 – 4 December 1994) was a German-born British political and constitutional historian, specialising in the Tudor period. He taught at Clare College, Cambridge and was the Regius Professor of Modern History there from 1983 to 1988.\n\nEhrenberg (Elton) was born in Tübingen, Germany. His parents were the Jewish scholars Victor Ehrenberg and Eva Dorothea Sommer. In 1929, the Ehrenbergs moved to Prague, Czechoslovakia. In February 1939, the Ehrenbergs fled to Britain. Ehrenberg continued his education at Rydal School, a Methodist school in Wales, starting in 1939. After only two years, Ehrenberg was working as a teacher at Rydal and achieved the position of assistant master in mathematics, history and German.\n\nThere, he took courses via correspondence at the University of London and graduated with a degree in Ancient History in 1943. Ehrenberg enlisted in the British Army in 1943. He spent his time in the Army in the Intelligence Corps and the East Surrey Regiment, serving with the Eighth Army in Italy from 1944 to 1946 and reaching the rank of sergeant. During this period, Ehrenberg anglicised his name to Geoffrey Rudolph Elton. After his discharge from the army, Elton studied early modern history at University College London, graduating with a PhD in 1949.\n\nUnder the supervision of J. E. Neale, Elton was awarded a PhD for his thesis \"Thomas Cromwell, Aspects of his Administrative Work\", in which Elton first developed the ideas that he was to pursue for the rest of his life. Elton naturalised as a British subject in September 1947.\n\nElton taught at the University of Glasgow and from 1949 onwards at Clare College, Cambridge and was the Regius Professor of Modern History there from 1983 to 1988. Pupils included John Guy, Diarmaid MacCulloch, Susan Brigden and David Starkey. He worked as publication secretary of the British Academy from 1981 to 1990 and served as the president of the Royal Historical Society from 1972 to 1976. Elton was appointed a Knight Bachelor in the 1986 New Year Honours.\n\nElton focused primarily on the life of Henry VIII but also made significant contributions to the study of Elizabeth I. Elton was most famous for arguing in his 1953 book \"The Tudor Revolution in Government\" that Thomas Cromwell was the author of modern, bureaucratic government which replaced medieval, household-based government. Until the 1950s, historians had downplayed Cromwell's role by calling him a doctrinaire hack who was little more than the agent of the despotic Henry VIII. Elton, however, made Cromwell the central figure in the Tudor revolution in government. Elton portrayed Cromwell as the presiding genius, much more so than the King, in handling the break with Rome and the laws and administrative procedures that made the English Reformation so important. Elton says that Cromwell was responsible for translating royal supremacy into parliamentary terms by creating powerful new organs of government to take charge of church lands and thoroughly removing the medieval features of the central government.\n\nThat change took place in the 1530s and must be regarded as part of a planned revolution. In essence, Elton was arguing that before Cromwell, the realm could be viewed as the King's private estate writ large and that most administration was done by the King's household servants rather than by separate state offices. Cromwell, Henry's chief minister from 1532 to 1540, introduced reforms into the administration that delineated the King's household from the state and created a modern bureaucratic government. Elton shone Tudor light into the darker corners of the Realm and radically altered the role of Parliament and the competence of Statute. Elton argued that by masterminding such reforms, Cromwell laid the foundations of England's future stability and success.\n\nElton elborated on his ideas in his 1955 work, the bestselling \"England under the Tudors\", which went through three editions, and his Wiles Lectures, which he published in 1973 as \"Reform and Renewal: Thomas Cromwell and the Common Weal\".\n\nHis thesis has been widely challenged by younger Tudor historians and can no longer be regarded as an orthodoxy, but his contribution to the debate has profoundly influenced subsequent discussion of Tudor government, particularly on the role of Cromwell.\n\nElton was a staunch admirer of Margaret Thatcher and Winston Churchill. He was also a fierce critic of Marxist historians, who he argued were presenting seriously flawed interpretations of the past. In particular, Elton was opposed to the idea that the English Civil War was caused by socioeconomic changes in the 16th and 17th centuries, arguing instead that it was due largely to the incompetence of the Stuart kings. Elton was also famous for his role in the Carr–Elton debate when he defended the nineteenth century interpretation of empirical, 'scientific' history most famously associated with Leopold von Ranke against E. H. Carr's views. Elton wrote his 1967 book \"The Practice of History\" largely in response to Carr's 1961 book \"What is History?.\"\n\nElton was a strong defender of the traditional methods of history and was appalled by postmodernism, saying, for example,: '... we are fighting for the lives of innocent young people beset by devilish tempters who claim to offer higher forms of thought and deeper truths and insights – the intellectual equivalent of crack, in fact. Any acceptance of these theories – even the most gentle or modest bow in their direction – can prove fatal.' Ex-pupils of his such as John Guy claim he did embody a \"revisionist streak,\" reflected both in his work on Cromwell, his attack on John Neale's traditionalist account of Elizabeth I's parliaments, and in his support for a more contingent and political set of causes for the English Civil War of the mid-seventeenth century.\n\nElton saw the duty of historians as empirically gathering evidence and objectively analyzing what the evidence has to say. As a traditionalist, he placed great emphasis on the role of individuals in history instead of abstract, impersonal forces. For instance, his 1963 book \"Reformation Europe\" is in large part concerned with the duel between Martin Luther and the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. Elton objected to cross-disciplinary efforts such as efforts to combine history with anthropology or sociology. He saw political history as the best and most important kind of history. Elton had no use for those who seek history to make myths, to create laws to explain the past, or to produce theories such as Marxism.\n\nElton was the brother of the education researcher Lewis Elton and the uncle of Lewis's son, the comedian and writer Ben Elton. He married a fellow historian, Sheila Lambert, in 1952. Elton died of a heart attack at his home in Cambridge on 4 December 1994.\n\nHe edited the second edition of the influential collection \"The Tudor Constitution\". In it, he supported John Aylmer's basic conclusion that the Tudor constitution mirrored that of the mixed constitution of Sparta.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30558101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30558101", "title": "George Burton (chronologer)", "text": "George Burton (chronologer)\n\nThe Reverend George Burton (1717–1791) was an English clergyman and chronologer.\n\nBurton was the second son of George Burton (1685-1758), who held the manor of Burton Lazars in Leicestershire and in 1710 served as High Sheriff of Leicestershire, and his wife Elizabeth Champion (1683-1739). His elder brother was Philip Burton (1710-1792), a lawyer and writer who inherited the family landholdings and by marrying Felicia Whitfield (1713-1791) became the father of Felicia Elizabetha Burton (1741-1821), the wife of George Horne, Bishop of Norwich.\n\nHe was born in 1717 and received his education at Catharine Hall, Cambridge, where he graduated B.A. in 1736 and M.A. in 1740, by the latter date having become a member of King's College, Cambridge. In 1740 he was presented to the rectory of Elveden, and in 1751 to that of Herringswell, both in Suffolk, holding both livings for the rest of his life. Burton took pupils, and generally had three or four boarding in his house for instruction.\n\nIn London on 9 July 1743 he married Anna Reeve, daughter of the steward of the Burton Lazars estate, John Reeve of Melton Mowbray, and his wife Joanna Hawley. No children are known. Anne's brother William Reeve, a lawyer in Melton Mowbray, acquired by marriage Leadenham House and its estate.\n\nHe died at Bath on 3 November 1791, and was buried in the church of Walcot.\n\nHe published:\n\nThe Reverend George Ashby considered him a person of great industry in chronology, but added: 'I could never perceive what his principles or foundations were, though I have attended in hopes of learning them.' He was, however, a friend of the Reverend William Stukeley, the famous antiquarian, who made him a present of The Description of Britain, the ingenious forgery by Charles Bertram.\n\n what's a color trak 2000 tv worth \n"}
{"id": "9124084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9124084", "title": "Gerónimo de Mendieta", "text": "Gerónimo de Mendieta\n\nFray Gerónimo de Mendieta (1525–1604), alternatively Jerónimo de Mendieta, was a Franciscan missionary and historian, who spent most of his life in the Spanish Empire's new possessions in Mexico and Central America.\n\nHis main work is the \"Historia eclesiástica indiana\", written in the late sixteenth century, but not published until 1870 by Joaquín García Icazbalceta, which recounts the history of Franciscan evangelization in the colony of New Spain in the Americas and abuses of the indigenous by Spanish civil society.\n\nGerónimo de Mendieta was born in Vitoria, Álava, in the Basque country of (Spain), in 1525. When he was twenty years old he entered the Franciscan order in Bilbao. In 1554 he traveled to New Spain to live in Tochimilco where he was taught the local Nahuatl language. He was later moved to Tlaxcala where he became a friend of fellow Franciscan Toribio de Benavente \"Motolinia\". \"Mendieta learned Nahuatl from Motolinia,\" and Motolina's optimism about indigenous conversion influenced Mendieta.\n\nHe returned to the Iberian peninsula in 1570, bringing with him the first copies of the works of Bernardino de Sahagún to the Spanish authorities. He returned to Mexico again in 1573, this time never to return to Europe. He returned under order to compose a history of the work of evangelizing the Americas. From his return to Mexico until 1597 he lived in the monastery of Tlatelolco, working on the history that would make him famous, the \"Historia eclesiástica indiana\", a chronicle of the early evangelization history of the New World. The publication of the work was prohibited, as it was deemed to contain \"unsound,\" millenarian, Joachimite ideas, and it was only published for the first time in 1870, when it was brought to light by Joaquín García Icazbalceta.\n"}
{"id": "12466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12466", "title": "Glorious Revolution", "text": "Glorious Revolution\n\nThe Glorious Revolution, also called the Revolution of 1688, was the overthrow of King James II of England (James VII of Scotland) by a union of English Parliamentarians with the Dutch stadtholder William III, Prince of Orange, who was James's nephew and son-in-law. William's successful invasion of England with a Dutch fleet and army led to his ascension to the throne as William III of England jointly with his wife, Mary II, James's daughter, after the Declaration of Right, leading to the Bill of Rights 1689.\n\nKing James's policies of religious tolerance after 1685 met with increasing opposition from members of leading political circles, who were troubled by the King's Catholicism and his close ties with France. The crisis facing the King came to a head in 1688, with the birth of his son, James, on 10 June (Julian calendar). This changed the existing line of succession by displacing the heir presumptive (his 26-year-old daughter Mary, a Protestant and the wife of William of Orange) with young James as heir apparent. The establishment of a Roman Catholic dynasty in the kingdoms now seemed likely. Some Tory members of parliament worked with members of the opposition Whigs in an attempt to resolve the crisis by secretly initiating dialogue with William of Orange to come to England, outside the jurisdiction of the English Parliament. Stadtholder William, the de facto head of state of the Dutch United Provinces, feared a Catholic Anglo–French alliance and had already been planning a military intervention in England.\n\nAfter consolidating political and financial support, William crossed the North Sea and English Channel with a large invasion fleet in November 1688, landing at Torbay. After only two minor clashes between the two opposing armies in England, and anti-Catholic riots in several towns, James's regime collapsed, largely because of a lack of resolve shown by the king. This was followed, however, by the protracted Williamite War in Ireland and Dundee's rising in Scotland. In England's distant American colonies, the revolution led to the collapse of the Dominion of New England and the overthrow of the Province of Maryland's government. Following a defeat of his forces at the Battle of Reading on 9 December, James and his wife Mary fled England; James, however, returned to London for a two-week period that culminated in his final departure for France on 23 December. By threatening to withdraw his troops, William in February 1689 (New Style Julian calendar) convinced a newly chosen Convention Parliament to make him and his wife joint monarchs.\n\nThe Revolution permanently ended any chance of Catholicism becoming re-established in England. For British Catholics its effects were disastrous both socially and politically: For over a century Catholics were denied the right to vote and sit in the Westminster Parliament; they were also denied commissions in the army, and the monarch was forbidden to be Catholic or to marry a Catholic, this latter prohibition remaining in force until 2015. The Revolution led to limited tolerance for Nonconformist Protestants, although it would be some time before they had full political rights. It has been argued, mainly by Whig historians, that James's overthrow began modern English parliamentary democracy: the Bill of Rights 1689 has become one of the most important documents in the political history of Britain and never since has the monarch held absolute power.\n\nInternationally, the Revolution was related to the War of the Grand Alliance on mainland Europe. It has been seen as the last successful invasion of England. It ended all attempts by England in the Anglo-Dutch Wars of the 17th century to subdue the Dutch Republic by military force. The resulting economic integration and military co-operation between the English and Dutch navies, however, shifted the dominance in world trade from the Dutch Republic to England and later to Great Britain.\n\nThe expression \"Glorious Revolution\" was first used by John Hampden in late 1689, and is an expression that is still used by the British Parliament. The Glorious Revolution is also occasionally termed the \"Bloodless Revolution\", albeit inaccurately. The English Civil War (also known as the Great Rebellion) was still within living memory for most of the major English participants in the events of 1688, and for them, in comparison to that war (or even the Monmouth Rebellion of 1685) the deaths in the conflict of 1688 were few.\n\nDuring his three-year reign, King James II became directly involved in the political battles in England between Catholicism and Protestantism, and between the concept of the divine right of kings and the political rights of the Parliament of England. James's greatest political problem was his Catholicism, which left him alienated from both parties in England. The low church Whigs had failed in their attempt to pass the Exclusion Bill to exclude James from the throne between 1679 and 1681, and James's supporters were the high church Anglican Tories. In Scotland, his supporters in the Parliament of Scotland stepped up attempts to force the Covenanters to renounce their faith and accept episcopalian rule of the church by the monarch.\n\nWhen James inherited the English throne in 1685, he had much support in the 'Loyal Parliament', which was composed mostly of Tories. His Catholicism was of concern to many, but the fact that he had no son, and his daughters, Mary and Anne, were Protestants, was a \"saving grace\". James's attempt to relax the Penal Laws alienated his natural supporters, however, because the Tories viewed this as tantamount to disestablishment of the Church of England. Abandoning the Tories, James looked to form a 'King's party' as a counterweight to the Anglican Tories, so in 1687 James supported the policy of religious toleration and issued the Declaration of Indulgence. The majority of Irish people backed James II for this reason and also because of his promise to the Irish Parliament of a greater future autonomy. By allying himself with the Catholics, Dissenters, and Nonconformists, James hoped to build a coalition that would advance Catholic emancipation.\n\nIn May 1686, James decided to obtain from the English courts of the common law a ruling that affirmed his power to dispense with Acts of Parliament. He dismissed judges who disagreed with him on this matter as well as the Solicitor General Heneage Finch. Eleven out of the twelve judges ruled in favour of dispensing power. When Henry Compton, the Bishop of London, did not ban John Sharp from preaching after he gave an anti-Catholic sermon, James ordered his removal.\n\nIn April 1687, James ordered the fellows of Magdalen College, Oxford to elect a Catholic, Anthony Farmer, as their president. The fellows believed Farmer ineligible under the college's statutes and so elected John Hough instead. The college statutes required them to fill the vacancy within a certain time and so could not wait for a further royal nomination. James refused to view Hough's election as valid and told the fellows to elect the Bishop of Oxford. James responded by sending some ecclesiastical commissioners to hold a visitation and install him as president. The fellows then agreed to the Bishop of Oxford as their president but James required that they admit they had been in the wrong and ask for his pardon. When they refused most of the fellows were ejected and replaced by Catholics.\n\nIn 1687, James prepared to pack Parliament with his supporters so that it would repeal the Test Act and the penal laws. James was convinced by addresses from Dissenters that he had their support and so could dispense with relying on Tories and Anglicans. James instituted a wholesale purge of those in offices under the crown opposed to James's plan. In August the lieutenancy was remodelled and in September over one thousand members of the city livery companies were ejected. In October James gave orders for the lords lieutenants in the provinces to provide three standard questions to all members of the Commission of the peace: would they consent to the repeal of the Test Act and the penal laws; would they assist candidates who would do so; and they were requested to accept the Declaration of Indulgence. In December it was announced that all the offices of deputy lieutenants and Justices of the Peace would be revised. Therefore, during the first three months of 1688, hundreds of those who gave hostile replies to the three questions asked were dismissed. More far-reaching purges were applied to the towns: in November a regulating committee was founded to operate the purges. Corporations were purged by agents given wide discretionary powers in an attempt to create a permanent royal electoral machine. Finally, on 24 August 1688, James ordered writs to be issued for a general election.\n\nJames also created a large standing army and employed Catholics in positions of power within it. To his opponents in Parliament this seemed like a prelude to arbitrary rule, so James prorogued Parliament without gaining their consent. At this time, the English regiments of the army were encamped at Hounslow, near the capital. It was feared that the location was intended to overawe the City. The army in Ireland was purged of Protestants, who were replaced with Catholics, and by 1688 James had more than 34,000 men under arms.\n\nIn April 1688, James re-issued the Declaration of Indulgence and ordered all clergymen to read it in their churches. When the Archbishop of Canterbury, William Sancroft, and six other bishops (the Seven Bishops) wrote to James asking him to reconsider his policies, they were arrested on charges of seditious libel, but at trial they were acquitted to the cheers of the London crowd.\n\nMatters came to a head in June 1688, when the King had a son, James; until then, the throne would have passed to his Protestant daughter, Mary. The prospect of a Catholic dynasty in the kingdoms of England, Scotland and Ireland was now likely.\n\nMary had a husband, her cousin William Henry of Orange. Both were Protestants and grandchildren of Charles I of England. Before the birth of James's son on 10 June, William had been third in the line of succession. There was a strong faction, however, at the English court, headed by Robert Spencer, 2nd Earl of Sunderland, proposing that Mary and William, because of their anti-Catholic position, should be replaced by some Catholic French heir.\n\nWilliam was also stadtholder of the main provinces of the Dutch Republic, then in the preliminary stages of joining the War of the Grand Alliance against France, in a context of international tensions caused by the revocation by Louis XIV of the Edict of Nantes and the disputed succession of Cologne and the Electorate of the Palatinate. William had already acquired the reputation of being the main champion in Europe of the Protestant cause against Catholicism and French absolutism; in the developing English crisis he saw an opportunity to prevent an Anglo-French alliance and bring England to the anti-French side, by carrying out a military intervention directed against James. This suited the desires of several English politicians who intended to depose James. It is still a matter of debate whether the initiative for the conspiracy was taken by the English or by the stadtholder and his wife. William had been trying to influence English politics for well over a year, letting Grand Pensionary Gaspar Fagel publish an open letter to the English people in November 1687 deploring the religious policy of James, which action had generally been interpreted as a covert bid for kingship.\n\nSince he had become king the relationship between James and his nephew and son-in-law had gradually deteriorated. Initially William welcomed the promise of a less pro-French policy. In 1685 he sent the Scottish and English mercenary regiments of his army to England to assist in putting down the Monmouth Rebellion. Soon James's policy of religious tolerance caused tensions to rise between them. William assumed it was but the first step towards a total re-Catholicisation of England and was unable to explain how James could hope to achieve this goal unless he had concluded a secret alliance with France. James's refusal to enter any anti-French coalition and his efforts to reorganise the Royal Navy increased William's suspicions. In the previous years the French navy had grown significantly in strength and the Dutch Republic would no longer be able to resist a combined Anglo-French attack. William feared that even English neutrality would not suffice and that control over the Royal Navy was a prerequisite for a successful naval campaign against France.\n\nIn November 1686 James had wished to gain William's support for the repeal of the Test Acts, as this would have delivered a blow to the English opposition. The Quaker William Penn was sent to The Hague but William opposed repeal. William's envoy Everhard van Weede Dijkvelt visited England between February and May 1687 (N.S.), instructed to persuade James to help contain French aggression. William also instructed Dijkvelt to let it be known that he would support the Church of England; that he was not a Presbyterian; to persuade the Dissenters not to support James and to reassure moderate Catholics. After having been assured by James that all rumours about a French alliance were malevolent fabrications, Dijkvelt returned to the Republic, with letters of varying importance from leading English statesmen. James tried again to gain William's support but William responded by advising James to keep to the law and not try to extend his prerogative powers. In August 1687 Count William Nassau de Zuylestein was sent to England, ostensibly to send condolences due to the death of the queen's mother. Zuylestein was sent in part to see how successful, or amenable, James's packed Parliament would be, and have discussions with English statesmen, with Zuylestein sending letters from them back to William.\n\nThe correspondence between William and the English politicians was, at first, sent by ordinary post to genuine addresses in either country and then distributed. Devices were used such as ending a postscript with \"etc.\", which meant spaces were actually written in white or invisible ink. As the conspiracy neared completion in 1688, the English government sometimes disrupted this correspondence by holding up the whole mail delivery system. In another method to keep this clandestine correspondence flowing, letters were sent in merchant ships between London and Amsterdam or Rotterdam, with outward bound letters often put on board below Gravesend, after the final customs clearance. Also, couriers for the purpose were sometimes used, and all Dutch diplomats travelling to and from either country carried the correspondence. Shortly before the invasion, when rapid delivery and secrecy were essential, fast yachts and small vessels were used for special courier services. The English government intercepted very few of these means of communication.\n\nIt has been suggested that the crisis caused by the prospect of a new Catholic heir made William decide to invade the next summer as early as November 1687, but this is disputed. It is certain however that in April 1688, when France and England concluded a naval agreement stipulating that the French would finance an English squadron in The Channel, which seemed to be the beginning of a formal alliance, he seriously began to prepare for a military intervention and seek political and financial support for such an undertaking.\n\nWilliam laid careful plans over a number of months for an invasion, which he hoped to execute in September 1688. William would not invade England without assurances of English support, and so in April, he asked for a formal invitation to be issued by a group of leading English statesmen. Gilbert Burnet recorded a conversation at the end of April between William and Admiral Edward Russell:\n\nIn May, Russell told William that the English opposition to James would not wait any longer for help and they would rise against James in any event. William feared that if he did not now head the conspiracy the English would set up a republic, even more inimical to the Dutch state. In June, William sent Count Zuylestein to England, ostensibly to congratulate James on the birth of the Prince of Wales but in reality to communicate with William's associates.\n\nOnly after the Prince of Wales had been born in June, however, and many suspected he was supposititious, did the Immortal Seven (who consisted of one bishop and six nobles) decide to comply, with the letter to William dated 18 June (Julian calendar), reaching him in The Hague on 30 June, and dispatched by Rear Admiral Herbert, disguised as a common sailor. The Seven consisted of Lord Shrewsbury, Lord Devonshire, Lord Danby, Lord Lumley, Henry Compton, Edward Russell, and Henry Sydney. The invitation declared:\n\nThe Seven went on to claim that \"much the greatest part of the nobility and gentry\" were dissatisfied and would rally to William, and that James's army \"would be very much divided among themselves; many of the officers being so discontented that they continue in their service only for a subsistence ... and very many of the common soldiers do daily shew such an aversion to the Popish religion, that there is the greatest probability imaginable of great numbers of deserters ... and amongst the seamen, it is almost certain, there is not one in ten who would do them any service in such a war\". The Seven believed that the situation would be much worse before another year due to James's plans to remodel the army by the means of a packed Parliament or, should the parliamentary route fail, through violent means which would \"prevent all possible means of relieving ourselves\". The Seven also promised to rally to William upon his landing in England and would \"do all that lies in our power to prepare others to be in as much readiness as such an action is capable of\".\n\nMeanwhile, William's confidante Willem Bentinck launched a propaganda campaign in England. In the numerous pamphlets distributed, William was presented in the best possible light; as a true Stuart yet blessedly free from the usual Stuart vices of crypto-Catholicism, absolutism, and debauchery. Much of the later \"spontaneous\" support for William had been carefully organised by Bentinck and his agents.\n\nIn August, it became clear that William had surprisingly strong support within the English army, a situation brought about by James himself. In January 1688 he had forbidden any of his subjects to serve the Dutch and had demanded that the Republic dissolve its six mercenary Scottish and English regiments. When this was refused, he asked that at least those willing would be released from their martial oath to be free to return to Britain. To this William consented as it would purify his army of Jacobite elements. In total 104 officers and 44 soldiers returned. The officers were enlisted within the British armies and so favoured that the established officer corps began to fear for its position. On 14 August Lord Churchill wrote to William: \"I owe it to God and my country to put my honour into the hands of Your Highness\". Nothing comparable happened within the Royal Navy, however; claims after the event by certain captains that they had somehow prevented the English fleet from engaging seem to have been little more than attempts at self-aggrandisement.\n\nFor William the English problem was inextricably intertwined with the situation in Germany. Only if the attention of Louis XIV was directed to the east could William hope to intervene in England without French interference. For this it was essential that Austria continued opposing the French demands regarding Cologne and the Palatinate. In May, William sent an envoy, Johann von Görtz, privy councillor of Hesse-Cassel, to Vienna to ensure secretly the support of the Holy Roman Emperor, Leopold I. Learning that William promised not to persecute the Catholics in England, the emperor approved of the expedition, promising in turn to try making peace with the Ottoman Empire to free his forces for a campaign in the West; on 4 September 1688 he would join an alliance with the Republic against France. The Duke of Hanover, Ernest Augustus, and the Elector of Saxony, John George III, assured William that they would remain neutral, though it had been feared they would take the French side.\n\nThe next concern was to assemble a powerful invasion force – contrary to the wishes of the English conspirators, who predicted that a token force would be sufficient. For this William needed funding by the city of Amsterdam, then the world's main financial centre. In earlier years Amsterdam had been strongly pro-French, often forcing William to moderate his policies, but a tariff war waged by Louis from 1687 against the Republic and French import limitations on herring, a major Dutch export, had outraged the wealthy merchants. Nevertheless, only after secret and difficult negotiations by Bentinck with the hesitant Amsterdam burgomasters during June could 260 transports be hired. Additionally, the burghers were uneasy about the prospect of denuding their homeland of its defences by sending the field army – roughly half of the total peace-time strength of the Dutch States Army of about 30,000 – overseas. Bentinck, who had already been sent in May to Brandenburg to recruit, but without much result, therefore negotiated contracts from 20 July (Gregorian calendar) for 13,616 German mercenaries from Brandenburg, Württemberg, Hesse-Cassel, and Celle to man Dutch border fortresses in order to free an equal number of Dutch elite mercenary troops for use against England. As the Dutch would typically double or triple their total army strength in wartime, the numbers were low enough to be explained as a limited precaution against French aggression. Shortly afterwards, Marshal Frederick Schomberg was instructed by William to prepare for a Western campaign.\n\nFurther financial support was obtained from the most disparate sources: the Jewish banker Francisco Lopes Suasso lent two million guilders; when asked what security he desired, Suasso answered: \"If you are victorious, you will surely repay me; if not, the loss is mine.\" Even Pope Innocent XI, an inveterate enemy of Louis XIV of France, provided a loan to William, though a relation with the invasion has been denied. Total costs were seven million guilders, four million of which would ultimately be paid for by a state loan. In the summer the Dutch navy was expanded to 9000 sailors on the pretext of fighting the Dunkirkers. The standard summer equipment of twenty warships was secretly doubled. On 13 July 1688 (Gregorian calendar) it was decided to build 21 new warships.\n\nDespite all the preparations, William had great trouble convincing the Dutch class of city and provincial rulers, the regents, that such an expensive expedition was really necessary. Also, he personally feared that the French might attack the Republic through Flanders when its army was tied up in England. One of the \"Seven\", Lord Danby, suggested postponing the invasion until the following year. By early September, William was on the brink of cancelling the entire expedition when French policy played into his hand.\n\nIn Germany, matters had come to a head. The Pope had refused to confirm Louis's favourite candidate for the bishopric of Cologne, William Egon of Fürstenberg. Enraged, the French king decided to execute a lightning campaign into Germany before the emperor could shift his troops to the West. Louis also hoped to keep his Turkish ally in the war this way. For the immediate future James had to hold his own, something Louis expected him to be quite capable of, especially if the Dutch were intimidated. On 9 September (Gregorian calendar) the French envoy Jean Antoine de Mesmes, the Comte d'Avaux, handed two letters from the French king, who had known of the invasion plans since May, to the States General of the Netherlands. In the first they were warned not to attack James. In the second they were advised not to interfere with the French policy in Germany. James hurriedly distanced himself from the first message, trying to convince the States General that there was no secret Anglo-French alliance against them. This had precisely the opposite effect: many members became extremely suspicious. The second message proved that the main French effort was directed to the east, not the north, so there was no immediate danger of a French invasion for the Republic itself.\n\nFrom 22 September, Louis XIV seized all Dutch ships present in French ports, totalling about a hundred vessels, apparently proving that real war with France was imminent, though Louis had meant it to be a mere warning. On 26 September the powerful city council of Amsterdam decided to officially support the invasion. On 27 September Louis crossed the Rhine into Germany to attack Philippsburg and William began to move the Dutch field army from the eastern borders, where it had trained on the Mookerheide, to the coast, even though most of the new mercenaries had not yet arrived.\n\nOn 29 September the States of Holland, the government of the most important Dutch province, fearing a French-English alliance, gathered in secret session and approved the operation, agreeing to make the English \"King and Nation live in a good relation, and useful to their friends and allies, and especially to this State\". They accepted William's argument that a preventive strike was necessary to avoid a repeat of the events of 1672, when England and France had jointly attacked the Republic, \"an attempt to bring this state to its ultimate ruin and subjugation, as soon as they find the occasion\". William denied any intention \"to remove the King from the throne or become master of England\". The States ordered a Dutch fleet of 53 warships to escort the troop transports. This fleet was in fact commanded by Lieutenant-Admiral Cornelis Evertsen the Youngest on the \"Cortgene\" and Vice-Admiral Philips van Almonde on the \"Provincie Utrecht\" but in consideration of English sensitivities placed, on 6 October, under the nominal command of Rear-Admiral Herbert, who for the occasion was appointed Lieutenant-Admiral-General, i.e. acting supreme commander, of the Dutch navy. He sailed on the \"Leyden\", accompanied by Lieutenant-Admiral Willem Bastiaensz Schepers, the Rotterdam shipping magnate who had organised the transport fleet. Though William was himself Admiral-General of the Republic, he, as was usual, abstained from operational command, sailing conspicuously on the new frigate \"Den Briel\". The States General allowed the core regiments of the Dutch field army to participate under command of Marshall Schomberg. Despite being assisted in it by the regular Dutch fleet and field army, his attempt to change the situation in England was, as the States General made explicit, officially a private family affair of William, merely acting in his capacity of concerned nephew and son-in-law to James, not an undertaking of the Dutch Republic as such.\n\nThe Dutch preparations, though carried out with great speed, could not remain secret. The English envoy Ignatius White, the Marquess d'Albeville, warned his country: \"an absolute conquest is intended under the specious and ordinary pretences of religion, liberty, property and a free Parliament ...\". Louis XIV threatened the Dutch with an immediate declaration of war, should they carry out their plans. Embarkations, started on 22 September (Gregorian calendar), had been completed on 8 October, and the expedition was that day openly approved by the States of Holland; the same day James issued a proclamation to the English nation that it should prepare for a Dutch invasion to ward off conquest. On 30 September/10 October (Julian/Gregorian calendars) William issued the \"Declaration of The Hague\" (actually written by Fagel), of which 60,000 copies of the English translation by Gilbert Burnet were distributed after the landing in England, in which he assured that his only aim was to maintain the Protestant religion, install a free parliament and investigate the legitimacy of the Prince of Wales. He would respect the position of James. William declared:\n\nWilliam went on to condemn James's advisers for overturning the religion, laws, and liberties of England, Scotland, and Ireland by the use of the suspending and dispensing power; the establishment of the \"manifestly illegal\" commission for ecclesiastical causes and its use to suspend the Bishop of London and to remove the Fellows of Magdalen College, Oxford. William also condemned James's attempt to repeal the Test Acts and the penal laws through pressuring individuals and waging an assault on parliamentary boroughs, as well as his purging of the judiciary. James's attempt to pack Parliament was in danger of removing \"the last and great remedy for all those evils\". \"Therefore\", William continued, \"we have thought fit to go over to England, and to carry over with us a force sufficient, by the blessing of God, to defend us from the violence of those evil Counsellors ... this our Expedition is intended for no other design, but to have, a free and lawful Parliament assembled as soon as is possible\".\n\nOn 4/14 October William responded to the allegations by James in a second declaration, denying any intention to become king or conquer England. Whether he had any at that moment is still controversial.\n\nThe swiftness of the embarkations surprised all foreign observers. Louis had in fact delayed his threats against the Dutch until early September because he assumed it then would be too late in the season to set the expedition in motion anyway, if their reaction proved negative; typically such an enterprise would take at least some months. Being ready after the last week of September / first week of October would normally have meant that the Dutch could have profited from the last spell of good weather, as the autumn storms tend to begin in the third week of that month. This year they came early however. For three weeks the invasion fleet was prevented by adverse south-westerly gales from departing from the naval port of Hellevoetsluis and Catholics all over the Netherlands and the British kingdoms held prayer sessions that this \"popish wind\" might endure. However, on 14/24 October it became the famous \"Protestant Wind\" by turning to the east.\n\nJames only in late August seriously began to consider the possibility of a Dutch invasion and then overestimated the size of the naval force the Dutch would bring against him. He assumed they would equip their full battle fleet, which he himself would be unable to match for financial reasons: in October about thirty English ships-of-the-line had been assembled, all third rates or fourth rates, while heavier vessels remained laid up. Fearing a surprise attack, he declined to position this fleet at The Downs, for striking into the southern North Sea or the Channel the most convenient location, but also a very vulnerable one. When Admiral George Legge, 1st Baron Dartmouth decided to place his fleet at the Gunfleet near the Medway, in a rather withdrawn location, James therefore merely suggested to bring the fleet farther out, though he well understood it otherwise risked becoming locked up in the Thames estuary by the same easterly wind that would allow the Dutch to cross. This was influenced by his belief the Dutch might well attack France instead and his expectation that they would first seek a naval victory before daring to invade – and that it thus would be advantageous to refuse battle. Indeed, it had originally been the Dutch intention to defeat the English first to free the way for the transport fleet – though they too, to lower the cost of the invasion, had not activated any heavier ships – but because it was now so late in the season and conditions on board deteriorated rapidly, they decided to sail in convoy and, if possible, avoid battle.\n\nOn 16/26 October William boarded his ship, the \"Den Briel\" (\"Brill\" in English). His standard was hoisted, displaying the arms of Nassau quartered with those of England. The words ' (\"For Liberty and [the Protestant] Religion\"), the slogan of William's ancestor William the Silent while leading the Dutch Revolt against Catholic Spain, were shown next to the House of Orange's motto, ' (\"I will maintain\"). William's fleet, which with about 40,000 men aboard was roughly twice the size of the Spanish Armada – and assembled in a tenth of the time – consisted of 463 ships. Among these were 49 warships of more than twenty cannon (eight could count as third rates of 60–68 cannon, nine were frigates), 28 galliots, nine fireships, 76 fluyts to carry the soldiers, 120 small transports to carry five thousand horses, about seventy supply vessels and sixty fishing vessels serving as landing craft. Most of the warships had been provided by the Admiralty of Amsterdam. On 19/29 October William's fleet departed from Hellevoetsluis. The fleet was approximately halfway between the Republic and England when the wind changed to the northwest and a gale scattered the fleet, with the \"Brill\" returning to Hellevoetsluis on 21/31 October. Despite suffering from sea-sickness William refused to go ashore and the fleet reassembled, having lost only one ship that grounded, though about a thousand crippled horses had been thrown into the sea. Press reports were released that deliberately exaggerated the damage and claimed the expedition would be postponed till the spring. English naval command now considered to try blockading Hellevoetsluis but decided against it because it was feared that the English fleet would founder on the Dutch coast, a dangerous lee shore for a blocking force, by the stormy weather.\n\nTaking advantage of a wind again turned to the east, resupplied and re-equipped with new horses, the invasion fleet departed again on 1/11 November and sailed north in the direction of Harwich where Bentinck had a landing site prepared. The fleet changed course to the south however when the wind turned more to the north; it has been suggested that the initial move to the north was a feint and indeed James diverted some of his forces in that direction. Thus they passed twice in sight of the English fleet, which was unable to intercept because of the adverse wind and an unfavourable tide. On 3/13 November the invasion fleet entered the English Channel through the Strait of Dover in an enormous square formation, 25 ships deep, the right and left of the fleet saluting Dover and Calais simultaneously, to show off its size. The troops were lined up on deck, firing musket volleys, with full colours flying and the military bands playing. Rapin de Thoyras, who was on board one of the ships, described it as the most magnificent and affecting spectacle that was ever seen by human eyes. William intended to land at Torbay but due to fog the fleet sailed past it by mistake. The wind made a return impossible and Plymouth was unsuitable as it had a garrison. At this point, with the English fleet in pursuit, Russell told Burnet: \"You may go to prayers, Doctor. All is over\". At that moment however the wind changed and the fog lifted, enabling the fleet to sail into Torbay, near Brixham, Devon. William came ashore on 5/15 November. When Burnet was ashore he hastened to William and eagerly enquired what William now intended to do. William regarded the interference in military matters by non-military personnel with disgust but he was in good humour at this moment and responded with a delicate reproof: \"Well, Doctor, what do you think of predestination now?\" The English squadron under Lord Dartmouth was forced by the same change in wind to shelter in Portsmouth harbour. During the next two days William's army disembarked in calm weather.\n\nWilliam brought over 11,212 horse and foot. William's cavalry and dragoons amounted to 3,660. His artillery train contained 21 24-pounder cannon. Including the supply train, his force consisted of about 15,000 men, compared to James's total forces of about 30,000. He also brought 20,000 stand of arms to equip his English supporters. The Dutch army was composed mostly of foreign mercenaries; there were Dutch, Scots, English, German, Swiss, and Swedish regiments, even Laplanders as well as \"200 Blacks brought from the Plantations of the Netherlands in America\", thus from the colony of Surinam. Many of the mercenaries were Catholic. William had his personal guard regiment with him, the Dutch Blue Guards. In response to the threat James had raised five new regiments of foot and five of horse, as well as bringing in Scottish and Irish soldiers. Louis XIV also sent James 300,000 livres.\n\nThe French fleet remained at the time concentrated in the Mediterranean, to assist a possible attack on the Papal State. Louis delayed his declaration of war until 16/26 November hoping at first that their involvement in a protracted English civil war would keep the Dutch from interfering with his German campaign. The same day a second attempt by Legge to attack the landing site again failed by an adverse southwestern gale. The Dutch call their fleet action the \"Glorieuze Overtocht\", the \"Glorious Crossing\".\n\nWilliam considered his veteran army to be sufficient in size to defeat any forces (all rather inexperienced) that James could throw against him, but it had been decided to avoid the hazards of battle and maintain a defensive attitude in the hope James's position might collapse by itself. Thus he landed far away from James's army, expecting that his English allies would take the initiative in acting against James while he ensured his own protection against potential attacks. William was prepared to wait; he had paid his troops in advance for a three-month campaign. A slow advance, apart from being necessitated by heavy rainfall anyway, had the added benefit of not over-extending the supply lines; the Dutch troops were under strict orders not even to forage, for fear that this would degenerate into plundering, which would alienate the population.\n\nOn 9 November (Julian calendar) William took Exeter after the magistrates had fled the city, entering on a white palfrey, with the two hundred black men forming a guard of honour, dressed in white, with turbans and feathers. In the South support from the local gentry was disappointingly limited, but from 12 November, in the North, many nobles began to declare for William, as they had promised, often by a public reading of the \"Declaration\". In Yorkshire, printer John White started to print the same document for a more widespread distribution. However, in the first weeks most people carefully avoided taking sides; as a whole the nation neither rallied behind its king, nor welcomed William, but passively awaited the outcome of events. In general, the mood was one of confusion, mutual distrust and depression.\n\nJames refused a French offer to send an expeditionary force, fearing that it would cost him domestic support. He tried to bring the Tories to his side by making concessions but failed because he still refused to endorse the Test Act. His forward forces had gathered at Salisbury, and James went to join them on 19 November with his main force, having a total strength of about 19,000. Amid anti-Catholic rioting in London, it rapidly became apparent that the troops were not eager to fight, and the loyalty of many of James' commanders was doubtful; he had been informed of the conspiracy within the army as early as September, but for unknown reasons had refused to arrest the officers involved. Some have argued, however, that if James had been more resolute, the army would have fought and fought well.\n\nThe first blood was shed at about this time in a skirmish at Wincanton, Somerset, where Royalist troops under Patrick Sarsfield retreated after defeating a small party of scouts; the total body count on both sides came to about fifteen. In Salisbury, after hearing that some officers had deserted, among them Lord Cornbury, a worried James was overcome by a serious nose-bleed that he interpreted as an evil omen indicating that he should order his army to retreat, which the supreme army commander, the Earl of Feversham, also advised on 23 November. The next day, Lord Churchill, one of James' chief commanders, deserted to William. On 26 November, James's younger daughter, Anne, who doubted the authenticity of her new brother, and who was greatly influenced by Churchill's wife Sarah Churchill, did the same. Both were serious losses. James returned to London that same day. On 27 November he met with all the Lords Spiritual and Temporal who were then in London.\n\nMeanwhile, on 18 November Plymouth had surrendered to William, and on 21 November he began to advance. By 24 November, William's forces were at Sherborne and on 1 December at Hindon. On 4 December he was at Amesbury, and was received by the mayor of Salisbury; three days later they had reached Hungerford, where the following day they met with the King's Commissioners to negotiate. James offered free elections and a general amnesty for the rebels. In reality, by that point James was simply playing for time, having already decided to flee the country. He feared that his English enemies would insist on his execution and that William would give in to their demands. Convinced that his army was unreliable, he sent orders to disband it. On 9 December, the two sides fought a second engagement with the Battle of Reading, a defeat for the King's men.\n\nIn December, there was anti-Catholic rioting in Bristol, Bury St. Edmunds, Hereford, York, Cambridge, and Shropshire. On 9 December a Protestant mob stormed Dover Castle, where the Catholic Sir Edward Hales was governor, and seized it. On 8 December William met at last with James's representatives; he agreed to James's proposals but also demanded that all Catholics be immediately dismissed from state functions and that England pay for the Dutch military expenses. He received no reply, however.\n\nIn the night of 9/10 December, the Queen and the Prince of Wales fled for France. The next day saw James's attempt to escape, the King dropping the Great Seal in the Thames along the way, as no lawful Parliament could be summoned without it. However, he was captured on 11 December by fishermen in Faversham opposite Sheerness, the town on the Isle of Sheppey. On the same day, 27 Lords Spiritual and Temporal, forming a provisional government, decided to ask William to restore order but at the same time asked the king to return to London to reach an agreement with his son-in-law. It was presided over initially by William Sancroft, Archbishop of Canterbury and, after it was learned that James was still in England, by George Savile, 1st Marquess of Halifax. On the night of 11 December there were riots and lootings of the houses of Catholics and several foreign embassies of Catholic countries in London. The following night a mass panic gripped London during what was later termed the Irish night. False rumours of an impending Irish army attack on London circulated in the capital, and a mob of over 100,000 assembled ready to defend the city.\n\nUpon returning to London on 16 December, James was welcomed by cheering crowds. He took heart at this and attempted to recommence government, even presiding over a meeting of the Privy Council. He sent the Earl of Feversham to William to arrange for a personal meeting to continue negotiations. Now it became evident that William had no longer any desire to keep James in power in England. He was extremely dismayed by the arrival of Lord Feversham. He refused the suggestion that he simply arrest James because this would violate his own declarations and burden his relationship with his wife. In the end it was decided that he should exploit James's fears; the three original commissioners were sent back to James with the message that William felt he could no longer guarantee the king's well-being and that James for his own safety had better leave London for Ham.\n\nWilliam at the same time ordered all English troops to depart from the capital, while his forces entered on 17 December; no local forces were allowed within a twenty-mile radius until the spring of 1690. Already the English navy had declared for William. James, by his own choice, went under Dutch protective guard to Rochester in Kent on 18 December, just as William entered London, cheered by crowds dressed in orange ribbons or waving, lavishly distributed, oranges. The Dutch officers had been ordered that \"if he [James] wanted to leave, they should not prevent him, but allow him to gently slip through\". James then left for France on 23 December after having received a request from his wife to join her, even though his followers urged him to stay. The lax guard on James and the decision to allow him so near the coast indicate that William may have hoped that a successful flight would avoid the difficulty of deciding what to do with him, especially with the memory of the execution of Charles I still strong. By fleeing, James ultimately helped resolve the awkward question of whether he was still the legal king or not, having created according to many a situation of interregnum.\n\nOn 28 December, William took over the provisional government by appointment of the peers of the realm, as was the legal right of the latter in circumstances when the king was incapacitated, and, on the advice of his Whig allies, summoned an assembly of all the surviving members of parliament of Charles II's reign, thus sidelining the Tories of the Loyal Parliament of 1685. This assembly called for a chosen English Convention Parliament, elected on 5 January 1689 NS, which convened on 22 January. William did not intervene in the election that followed. This elected body consisted of 513 members, 341 of whom had been elected before, 238 having been members of at least one Exclusion Bill Parliament, but only 193 having been elected in 1685. The name \"Convention\" was chosen because only the king could call a Parliament, although as William had been appointed \"de facto\" regent by the peers the Convention could be argued to be, strictly speaking, a lawful Parliament.\n\nAlthough James had fled the country, he still had many followers, and William feared that the king might return, relegating William to the role of a mere regent, an outcome which was unacceptable to him. On 30 December, William, speaking to the Marquess of Halifax, threatened to leave England \"if King James came again\" and determined to go back to the Netherlands \"if they went about to make him Regent\".\n\nThe English Convention Parliament was very divided on the issue. The radical Whigs in the Lower House proposed to elect William as a king (meaning that his power would be derived from the people); the moderates wanted an acclamation of William and Mary together; the Tories wanted to make him regent or only acclaim Mary as queen. On 28 January a committee of the whole House of Commons promptly decided by acclamation that James had broken \"the original contract\"; had \"abdicated the government\"; and had left the throne \"vacant\". The House of Lords wished to amend this, however, as many were still loyal to James and believed in the Anglican doctrine of non-resistance. The Lords rejected the proposal for a regency in James's name by 51 to 48 on 2 February. The Lords also substituted the word \"abdicated\" for \"deserted\" and removed the \"vacancy\" clause. The Lords voted against proclaiming William and Mary monarchs by 52 to 47. On 4 February the Lords reaffirmed their amendments to the Commons's resolution by 55 to 51 and 54 to 53. On 5 February the Commons voted 282 to 151 for maintaining the original wording of the resolution. The next day, the two Houses entered into a conference but failed to resolve the matter. William in private conversation (with Halifax, Danby, Shrewsbury, Lord Winchester and Lord Mordaunt) made it clear that they could either accept him as king or deal with the Whigs without his military presence, for then he would leave for the Republic. But he let it be known that he was happy for Mary to be nominal monarch and preference in the succession given to Anne's children over his by a subsequent marriage. Anne declared that she would temporarily waive her right to the crown should Mary die before William, and Mary refused to be made queen without William as king. The Lords on 6 February now accepted the words \"abdication\" and \"vacancy\" and Lord Winchester's motion to appoint William and Mary monarchs. Generally there was a great fear that the situation might deteriorate into a civil war.\n\nThe proposal to draw up a statement of rights and liberties and James's invasion of them was first made on 29 January in the Commons, with members arguing that the House \"can not answer it to the nation or Prince of Orange till we declare what are the rights invaded\" and that William \"cannot take it ill if we make conditions to secure ourselves for the future\" to \"do justice to those who sent us hither\". On 2 February a committee specially convened reported to the Commons 23 Heads of Grievances, which the Commons approved and added some of their own. However, on 4 February the Commons decided to instruct the committee to differentiate between \"such of the general heads, as are introductory of new laws, from those that are declaratory of ancient rights\". On 7 February the Commons approved this revised Declaration of Right, and on 8 February instructed the committee to put into a single text the Declaration (with the heads which were \"introductory of new laws\" removed), the resolution of 28 January and the Lords' proposal for a revised oath of allegiance. It passed the Commons without division.\n\nThe Declaration of Right was in December 1689 enacted in an Act of Parliament, the Bill of Rights 1689. It listed twelve of James's policies by which James designed to \"endeavour to subvert and extirpate the protestant religion, and the laws and liberties of this kingdom\". These were:\n\nThe Bill of Rights also vindicated and asserted the nation's \"ancient rights and liberties\" by declaring:\n\nOn 13 February the clerk of the House of Lords read the Declaration of Right, and Halifax, in the name of all the estates of the realm, asked William and Mary to accept the throne. William replied for his wife and himself: \"We thankfully accept what you have offered us\". They then went in procession to the great gate at Whitehall. The Garter King at Arms proclaimed them King and Queen of England, France and Ireland, whereupon they adjourned to the Chapel Royal, with Compton preaching the sermon. They were crowned on 11 April, swearing an oath to uphold the laws made by Parliament. The Coronation Oath Act 1688 had provided a new coronation oath, whereby the monarchs were to \"solemnly promise and swear to govern the people of this kingdom of England, and the dominions thereunto belonging, according to the statutes in parliament agreed on, and the laws and customs of the same\". They were also to maintain the laws of God, the true profession of the Gospel, and the Protestant Reformed faith established by law.\n\nAlthough their succession to the English throne was relatively peaceful, much blood would be shed before William's authority was accepted in Ireland and Scotland. In Scotland there had been no serious support for the rebellion; but, when James fled for France, most members of the Scottish Privy Council went to London to offer their services to William. On 7 January they asked William to take over the responsibilities of government. On 14 March a Scottish Convention convened in Edinburgh, dominated by the Presbyterians because the Episcopalians continued to support James. There was nevertheless a Jacobite faction, but a letter by James received on 16 March, in which he threatened to punish all who rebelled against him, resulted in his followers leaving the Convention, which then on 4 April decided that the throne of Scotland was vacant. The Convention formulated the \"Claim of Right\" and the \"Articles of Grievances\". On 11 May William and Mary accepted the Crown of Scotland; after their acceptance, the \"Claim\" and the \" Articles \" were read aloud, leading to an immediate debate over whether or not an endorsement of these documents was implicit in that acceptance.\n\nIn Ireland there was no equivalent of the English or Scottish Convention and William had to conquer Ireland by force. The English Convention presumed to legislate for Ireland as well, and the Declaration of Right deemed William to be King of Ireland as well as of England.\n\nJames had cultivated support on the fringes of his Three Kingdoms – in Catholic Ireland and the Highlands of Scotland. Supporters of James, known as \"Jacobites\", were prepared to resist what they saw as an illegal coup by force of arms. The first Jacobite rebellion, an uprising in support of James in Scotland, took place in 1689. It was led by John Graham, 1st Viscount Dundee, also known as Graham of Claverhouse or Bonnie Dundee, who raised an army from Highland clans. In Ireland, Richard Talbot, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell led local Catholics, who had been discriminated against by previous English monarchs, in the conquest of all the fortified places in the kingdom except Derry, and so held the Kingdom for James. James himself landed in Ireland with 6,000 French troops to try to regain the throne in the Williamite War in Ireland. The war raged from 1689 to 1691. James fled Ireland following his defeat at the Battle of the Boyne in 1690, but Jacobite resistance was not ended until after the battle of Aughrim in 1691, when over half of their army was killed or taken prisoner. The Irish Jacobites surrendered under the conditions of the Treaty of Limerick on 3 October 1691. England stayed relatively calm throughout, although some English Jacobites fought on James's side in Ireland. Despite the Jacobite victory at the Battle of Killiecrankie, the uprising in the Scottish Highlands was quelled due to the death of its leader, Dundee, and Williamite victories at Dunkeld and Cromdale, as well as the Glencoe massacre in early 1692. Many, particularly in Ireland and Scotland, continued to see the Stuarts as the legitimate monarchs of the Three Kingdoms, and there were further Jacobite rebellions in Scotland during the years 1715, 1719 and 1745.\n\nThough he had carefully avoided making it public, William's main motive in organising the expedition had been the opportunity to bring England into an alliance against France. On 9 December 1688 he had already asked the States General to send a delegation of three to negotiate the conditions. On 18 February (Julian calendar) he asked the Convention to support the Republic in its war against France; but it refused, only consenting to pay £600,000 for the continued presence of the Dutch army in England. On 9 March (Gregorian calendar) the States General responded to Louis's earlier declaration of war by declaring war on France in return. On 19 April (Julian calendar) the Dutch delegation signed a naval treaty with England. It stipulated that the combined Anglo-Dutch fleet would always be commanded by an Englishman, even when of lower rank; also it specified that the two parties would contribute in the ratio of five English vessels against three Dutch vessels, meaning in practice that the Dutch navy in the future would be smaller than the English. The Navigation Acts were not repealed. On 18 May the new Parliament allowed William to declare war on France. On 9 September 1689 (Gregorian calendar), William as King of England joined the League of Augsburg against France.\n\nHaving England as an ally meant that the military situation of the Republic was strongly improved, but this very fact induced William to be uncompromising in his position towards France. This policy led to a large number of very expensive campaigns which were largely paid for with Dutch funds. In 1712 the Republic was financially exhausted; it withdrew from international politics and was forced to let its fleet deteriorate, making what was by then the Kingdom of Great Britain the dominant maritime power of the world. The Dutch economy, already burdened by the high national debt and concomitant high taxation, suffered from the other European states' protectionist policies, which its weakened fleet was no longer able to resist. To make matters worse, the main Dutch trading and banking houses moved much of their activity from Amsterdam to London after 1688. Between 1688 and 1720, world trade dominance shifted from the Republic to Britain.\n\nAfter being revisited by historians in 1988—the third centennial of the event—several researchers have argued that the \"revolution\" was actually a successful Dutch invasion of Britain. The events were unusual because the establishment of a constitutional monarchy (a de facto republic, see Coronation Oath Act 1688) and Bill of Rights meant that the apparently invading monarchs, legitimate heirs to the throne, were prepared to govern with the English Parliament. It is difficult to classify the entire proceedings of 1687–89 but it can be seen that the events occurred in three phases: conspiracy, invasion by Dutch forces and \"Glorious Revolution\". It has been argued that the invasion aspect had been downplayed as a result of a combination of British pride and successful Dutch propaganda, trying to depict the course of events as a largely internal English affair.\n\nAs the invitation was initiated by figures who had little influence themselves, the legacy of the Glorious Revolution has been described as a successful propaganda act by William to cover up and justify his successful invasion. The claim that William was fighting for the Protestant cause in England was used to great effect to disguise the military, cultural and political impact that the Dutch regime had on England at the time.\n\nThe overthrow of James was hailed at the time and ever since as the \"Glorious Revolution\". Edmund Burke set the tone for over two centuries of historiographical analysis when he proclaimed that:\n\nMany historians have endorsed Burke's view, including Macaulay (1848) and more recently John Morrill, who captured the consensus of contemporary historiography well when he declared that \"the Sensible Revolution of 1688–89 was a conservative Revolution\". On the other hand, Steven Pincus (2009) argues that it was momentous especially when looking at the alternative that James was trying to enact – a powerful centralised autocratic state, using French-style \"state-building\". England's role in Europe and the country's political economy in the 17th century refutes the view of many late-20th-century historians that nothing revolutionary occurred during the Glorious Revolution of 1688–89. Pincus says it was not a placid turn of events. In diplomacy and economics William III transformed the English state's ideology and policies. This occurred not because William III was an outsider who inflicted foreign notions on England but because foreign affairs and political economy were at the core of the English revolutionaries' agenda. The revolution of 1688–89 cannot be fathomed in isolation. It would have been inconceivable without the changes resulting from the events of the 1640s and 1650s. Indeed, the ideas accompanying the Glorious Revolution were rooted in the mid-century upheavals. Thus, the 17th century was a century of revolution in England, deserving of the same scholarly attention that 'modern' revolutions attract.\n\nJames II tried building a powerful militarised state on the mercantilist assumption that the world's wealth was necessarily finite and empires were created by taking land from other states. The East India Company was thus an ideal tool to create a vast new English imperial dominion by warring with the Dutch and the Mogul Empire in India. After 1689 came an alternative understanding of economics, which saw Britain as a commercial rather than an agrarian society. The proponents of this view, most famously Adam Smith in 1776, argued that wealth was created by human endeavour and was thus potentially infinite.\n\nThe Glorious Revolution of 1688 is considered by some as being one of the most important events in the long evolution of the respective powers of Parliament and the Crown in England. With the passage of the Bill of Rights, it stamped out once and for all any possibility of a Catholic monarchy, and ended moves towards absolute monarchy in the British kingdoms by circumscribing the monarch's powers. These powers were greatly restricted; he or she could no longer suspend laws, levy taxes, make royal appointments, or maintain a standing army during peacetime without Parliament's permission – to this day the Army is known as the \"British Army\" not the \"Royal Army\" as it is, in some sense, Parliament's Army and not that of the King. (This is, however, a complex issue, as the Crown remains the source of all executive authority in the British army, with legal implications for unlawful orders etc.). Since 1689, government under a system of constitutional monarchy in England, and later the United Kingdom, has been uninterrupted. Since then, Parliament's power has steadily increased while the Crown's has steadily declined. Unlike in the English civil war of the mid-seventeenth century, the \"Glorious Revolution\" did not involve the masses of ordinary people in England (the majority of the bloodshed occurred in Ireland). This fact has led many historians, including Stephen Webb, to suggest that, in England at least, the events more closely resemble a coup d'état than a social revolution. This view of events does not contradict what was originally meant by \"revolution\": the coming round of an old system of values in a circular motion, back to its original position, as Britain's constitution was reasserted, rather than formed anew.\n\nPrior to his arrival in England, the new king William III of England was not Anglican, but rather was a member of the Dutch Reformed Church. Consequently, as a Calvinist and Presbyterian he was now in the unenviable position of being the head of the Church of England, while technically being a Nonconformist. This was, however, not his main motive for promoting religious toleration. More important in that respect was the need to keep happy his Catholic allies in the coming struggle with Louis XIV. Though he had promised legal toleration for Catholics in his \"Declaration\" of October 1688, he was ultimately unsuccessful in this respect, due to opposition by the Tories in the new Parliament. The Revolution led to the Act of Toleration of 1689, which granted toleration to Nonconformist Protestants, but not to Catholics. Catholic emancipation would be delayed for 140 years.\n\nThe Williamite War in Ireland can be seen as the source of later conflict, including The Troubles of recent times. The Williamite victory in Ireland is still commemorated by the Orange Order for preserving British and Protestant dominance in the country.\n\nIn North America, the Glorious Revolution precipitated the 1689 Boston revolt in which a well-organised \"mob\" of provincial militia and citizens successfully deposed the hated governor Edmund Andros, which has been seen as a precedent for the American War of Independence a century later. In New York, Leisler's Rebellion caused the colonial administrator, Francis Nicholson, to flee to England. A third event, Maryland's Protestant Rebellion was directed against the proprietary government, seen as Catholic-dominated.\n\nLord Macaulay's account of the Revolution in \"The History of England from the Accession of James the Second\" exemplifies its semi-mystical significance to later generations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4919930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4919930", "title": "Guglielmo Ferrero", "text": "Guglielmo Ferrero\n\nGuglielmo Ferrero (; July 21, 1871 — August 3, 1942) was an Italian historian, journalist and novelist, author of the \"Greatness and Decline of Rome\" (5 volumes, published after English translation 1907–1909). Ferrero devoted his writings to classical liberalism and he opposed any kind of dictatorship and Big Government. He was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature twenty times in six years.\n\nBorn in Portici, near Naples, Ferrero studied law in Pisa, Bologna and Turin. Soon afterward he married Gina Lombroso, a daughter of Cesare Lombroso, the criminologist and psychiatrist with whom he wrote \"The Female Offender\", \"The Prostitute\" and \"The Normal Woman\". In 1891-1894 Ferrero traveled extensively in Europe and in 1897 wrote \"The Young Europe\", a book which had a strong influence over James Joyce.\n\nAfter studying the history of Rome Ferrero turned to political essays and novels (\"Between Two Worlds\" in 1913, \"Speeches to the Deaf\" in 1925 and \"The Two Truths\" in 1933-1939). When the fascist reign of Black Shirts forced liberal intellectuals to leave Italy in 1925, Ferrero refused and was placed under house arrest. In 1929 Ferrero accepted a professorship at the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva. His last works (\"Adventure\", \"Bonaparte in Italy\", \"The Reconstruction of Europe\", \"The Principles of Power\" and \"The Two French Revolutions\") were dedicated to the French Revolution and Napoleon. In 1935 his daughter Nina Ferrero married the Yugoslavian diplomat Bogdan Raditsa.\n\nFerrero was invited to the White House by Theodore Roosevelt in 1908. He gave lectures in the northeast of the USA which were collected and published in 1909 as \"Characters and Events of Roman History\". Additionally, Theodore Roosevelt read \"The Greatness and Decline of Rome\".\n\nHe died in 1942 at the Mont Pèlerin, Switzerland.\n\n\nSelected articles\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25322439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25322439", "title": "Harald Berntsen", "text": "Harald Berntsen\n\nHarald Berntsen (born 25 January 1945 in Eidanger) is a national historian who is active in the radical left in Norway. \n\nBerntsen was born and brought up in Eidanger, an area with a strong industrial working class, in which Berntsen first entered politics. Berntsen was himself the son of a Hydro worker. The working environment at Norsk Hydro was very socialist and Berntsen later became politically engaged. \n\nBerntsen later became a leader in the extreme left environment at Blindern. He joined Kjell Hovden in the Kommunistisk Arbeiderforbund in 1971, and was named to the central council of the Kommunistisk Universitetslag (KUL) during the 1970s, when KUL grew to become the student branch of the Kommunistisk Arbeiderforbund. Berntsen was one of the leading lights in the KUL, together with Jørgen Sandemose. On the radical left, Harald Berntsen was one of the AKP's bitterest critics. Berntsen was formerly married to Gerd-Liv Valla.\n\nBerntsen has written two historical autobiographies: \"\" from 1998 which documents the growth of the radical student movement in Norway in the 1960s, and the autobiographical novel \"Ut\" from 2001, which describes his childhood and youth in Eidanger and Herøya until he moved to Oslo to be a student.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177907", "title": "Harold Innis", "text": "Harold Innis\n\nHarold Adams Innis (November 5, 1894 – November 8, 1952) was a Canadian professor of political economy at the University of Toronto and the author of seminal works on media, communication theory, and Canadian economic history. Despite his dense and difficult prose, Innis was one of Canada's most original thinkers. He helped develop the staples thesis, which holds that Canada's culture, political history, and economy have been decisively influenced by the exploitation and export of a series of \"staples\" such as fur, fishing, lumber, wheat, mined metals, and coal. The staple thesis dominated economic history in Canada 1930s-1960s, and continues to be a fundamental part of the Canadian political economy tradition.\n\nInnis's writings on communication explore the role of media in shaping the culture and development of civilizations. He argued, for example, that a balance between oral and written forms of communication contributed to the flourishing of Greek civilization in the 5th century BC. He warned, however, that Western civilization is now imperiled by powerful, advertising-driven media obsessed by \"present-mindedness\" and the \"continuous, systematic, ruthless destruction of elements of permanence essential to cultural activity\". His intellectual bond with Eric A. Havelock formed the foundations of the Toronto School of communication theory, which provided a source of inspiration for future members of the school: Marshall McLuhan and Edmund Snow Carpenter.\n\nInnis laid the basis for scholarship that looked at the social sciences from a distinctly Canadian point of view. As the head of the University of Toronto's political economy department, he worked to build up a cadre of Canadian scholars so that universities would not continue to rely as heavily on British or American-trained professors unfamiliar with Canada's history and culture. He was successful in establishing sources of financing for Canadian scholarly research.\n\nAs the Cold War grew hotter after 1947, Innis grew increasingly hostile to the United States. He warned repeatedly that Canada was becoming a subservient colony to its much more powerful southern neighbor. \"We are indeed fighting for our lives,\" he warned, pointing especially to the \"pernicious influence of American advertising... We can only survive by taking persistent action at strategic points against American imperialism in all its attractive guises.\" His views influenced some younger scholars, including Donald Creighton.\n\nInnis also tried to defend universities from political and economic pressures. He believed that independent universities, as centres of critical thought, were essential to the survival of Western civilization. His intellectual disciple and university colleague, Marshall McLuhan, lamented Innis's premature death as a disastrous loss for human understanding. McLuhan wrote: \"I am pleased to think of my own book \"The Gutenberg Galaxy\" as a footnote to the observations of Innis on the subject of the psychic and social consequences, first of writing then of printing.\"\n\nHarold Adams Innis was born in 1894 on a small livestock and dairy farm near the community of Otterville in southwestern Ontario's Oxford County. As a boy he loved the rhythms and routines of farm life and he never forgot his rural origins. His mother, Mary Adams Innis, had named him 'Herald', hoping he would become a minister in the strict evangelical Baptist faith that she and her husband William shared. At the time, the Baptist Church was an important part of life in rural areas. It gave isolated families a sense of community and embodied the values of individualism and independence. Its far-flung congregations were not ruled by a centralized, bureaucratic authority. Innis became an agnostic in later life, but never lost his interest in religion. According to his friend and biographer Donald Creighton, Innis's character was moulded by the Church:\n\nThe strict sense of values and the feeling of devotion to a cause, which became so characteristic of him in later life, were derived, in part at least, from the instruction imparted so zealously and unquestioningly inside the severely unadorned walls of the Baptist Church at Otterville.\nInnis attended the one-room schoolhouse in Otterville and the community's high school. He travelled by train to Woodstock, Ontario, to complete his secondary education at a Baptist-run college. He intended to become a public-school teacher and passed the entrance examinations for teacher training, but decided to take a year off to earn the money he would need to support himself at an Ontario teachers' college. At age 18, therefore, he returned to the one-room schoolhouse at Otterville to teach for one term until the local school board could recruit a fully qualified teacher. The experience made him realize that the life of a teacher in a small, rural school was not for him.\n\nIn October 1913, Innis started classes at McMaster University (then in Toronto). McMaster was a natural choice for him because it was a Baptist university and many students who attended Woodstock College went there. McMaster's liberal arts professors encouraged critical thinking and debate. Innis was especially influenced by James Ten Broeke, the university's one-man philosophy department. Ten Broeke posed an essay question that Innis pondered for the rest of his life: \"Why do we attend to the things to which we attend?\"\n\nBefore his final undergraduate year at McMaster, Innis spent a summer teaching at the Northern Star School in the frontier farming community of Landonville near Vermilion, Alberta. The experience gave him a sense of the vastness of Canada. He also learned about Western grievances over high interest rates and steep transportation costs. In his final undergraduate year, Innis focused on history and economics. He kept in mind a remark made by history lecturer W.S. Wallace that the economic interpretation of history was not the only possible one, but that it went the deepest.\n\nAfter graduating from McMaster, Innis felt that his Christian principles compelled him to enlist in the Canadian Expeditionary Force. He was sent to France in the fall of 1916 to fight in the First World War. Trench warfare with its \"mud and lice and rats\" had a devastating effect on him.\n\nInnis's role as an artillery signaller gave him firsthand experience of life (and death) on the front lines as he participated in the successful Canadian attack on Vimy Ridge. Signallers, or spotters, watched where each artillery shell landed, then sent back aiming corrections so that the next shells could hit their targets more accurately. On July 7, 1917, Innis received a serious shrapnel wound in his right thigh that required eight months of hospital treatment in England.\n\nInnis's war was over. His biographer, John Watson, notes the physical wound took seven years to heal, but the psychological damage lasted a lifetime. Innis suffered recurring bouts of depression and nervous exhaustion because of his military service.\n\nWatson also notes that the Great War influenced Innis's intellectual outlook. It strengthened his Canadian nationalism; sharpened his opinion of what he thought were the destructive effects of technology, including the communications media that were used so effectively to \"sell\" the war; and led him, for the first time, to doubt his Baptist faith.\n\nHarold Innis completed a Master of Arts at McMaster, graduating in April 1918. His thesis, called \"The Returned Soldier\", \"was a detailed description of the public policy measures that were necessary, not only to provide a supportive milieu to help veterans get over the effects of the war, but also to move on with national reconstruction\".\n\nInnis did his postgraduate work at the University of Chicago and was awarded his PhD, with a dissertation on the history of Canadian Pacific Railway, in August 1920. His two years at Chicago had a profound influence on his later work. His interest in economics deepened and he decided to become a professional economist. The economics faculty at Chicago questioned abstract and universalist neoclassical theories, then in vogue, arguing that general rules for economic policy should be derived from specific case studies.\n\nInnis was influenced by the university's two eminent communications scholars, George Herbert Mead and Robert E. Park. Although he did not attend any of these famous professors' classes, Innis did absorb their idea that communication involved much more than the transmission of information. James W. Carey writes that Mead and Park \"characterized communication as the entire process whereby a culture is brought into existence, maintained in time, and sedimented into institutions\".\n\nWhile at Chicago, Innis was exposed to the ideas of Thorstein Veblen, the iconoclastic thinker who drew on his deep knowledge of philosophy and economics to write scathing critiques of contemporary thought and culture. Veblen had left Chicago years before, but his ideas were still strongly felt there. Years later, in an essay on Veblen, Innis praised him for waging war against \"standardized static economics\".\n\nInnis got his first taste of university teaching at Chicago, where he delivered several introductory economics courses. One of his students was Mary Quayle, the woman he would marry in May 1921 when he was 26 and she 22. Together they had four children, Donald (1924), Mary (1927), Hugh (1930), and Anne (1933). Mary Quayle Innis was herself a notable economist and writer. Her book, \"An Economic History of Canada\", was published in 1935. Her novel, \"Stand on a Rainbow\" appeared in 1943. Her other books include \"Mrs. Simcoe's Diary\" (1965), \"The Clear Spirit: Canadian Women and Their Times\" (1966) and \"Unfold the Years\" (1949), a history of the Young Women's Christian Association. She also edited Harold Innis's posthumous \"Essays in Canadian Economic History\" (1956) and a 1972 reissue of his \"Empire and Communications.\"\n\nDonald Quayle Innis became a geography professor at the State University of New York, Mary married a surgeon and did graduate work in French literature, Hugh Innis became a professor at Ryerson University where he taught communications and economics, Anne Innis Dagg did doctoral work in biology and became an advisor for the Independent Studies program at the University of Waterloo and published books on zoology, feminism, and Canadian women's history.\n\nHarold Innis wrote his PhD thesis on the history of the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR). The completion of Canada's first transcontinental railway in 1885 had been a defining moment in Canadian history. Innis's thesis, eventually published as a book in 1923, can be seen as an early attempt to document the railway's significance from an economic historian's point of view. It uses voluminous statistics to underpin its arguments. Innis maintains that the difficult and expensive construction project was sustained by fears of American annexation of the Canadian West.\n\nInnis argues that \"the history of the Canadian Pacific Railroad is primarily the history of the spread of Western civilization over the northern half of the North American continent\". As Robert Babe notes, the railway brought industrialization, transporting coal and building supplies to manufacturing sites. It was also a kind of communications medium that contributed to the spread of European civilization. Babe writes that, for Innis, the CPR's equipment \"comprised a massive, energy-consuming, fast-moving, powerful, capital-intensive 'sign' dropped into the very midst of indigenous peoples, whose entire way of life was disrupted, and eventually shattered as a result.\n\nCommunications scholar Arthur Kroker argues that Innis's study of the Canadian Pacific Railway was only the first in which he attempted to demonstrate that \"technology is not something external to Canadian being; but on the contrary, is the necessary condition and lasting consequence of Canadian existence\". It also reflected Innis's lifelong interest in the exercise of economic and political power. His CPR history ends, for example, with a recounting of Western grievances against economic policies, such as high freight rates and the steep import tariffs designed to protect fledgling Canadian manufacturers. Westerners complained that this National Policy funnelled money from Prairie farmers into the pockets of the Eastern business establishment. \"Western Canada\", Innis wrote, \"has paid for the development of Canadian nationality, and it would appear that it must continue to pay. The acquisitiveness of Eastern Canada shows little sign of abatement.\"\n\nHarold Innis is considered the leading founder of a Canadian school of economic thought known as the staples theory. It holds that Canada's culture, political history and economy have been decisively shaped by the exploitation and export of a series of \"staples\" such as fur, fish, wood, wheat, mined metals and fossil fuels. Innis theorized that this reliance on exporting natural resources made Canada dependent on more industrially advanced countries and resulted in periodic disruptions to economic life as the international demand for staples rose and fell; as the staple itself became increasingly scarce; and, as technological change resulted in shifts from one staple to others. Innis pointed out, for example, that as furs became scarce and trade in that staple declined, it became necessary to develop and export other staples such as wheat, potash and especially lumber. The export of these new staples was made possible through improved transportation networks that included first canals, and later, railways.\n\nIn 1920, Innis joined the department of political economy at the University of Toronto. He was assigned to teach courses in commerce, economic history and economic theory. He decided to focus his scholarly research on Canadian economic history, a hugely neglected subject, and he settled on the fur trade as his first area of study. Furs had brought French and English traders to Canada, motivating them to travel west along the continent's interlocking lake and river systems to the Pacific coast. Innis realized that he would not only need to search out archival documents to understand the history of the fur trade, but would also have to travel the country himself gathering masses of firsthand information and accumulating what he called \"dirt\" experience.\n\nThus, Innis travelled extensively beginning in the summer of 1924 when he and a friend paddled an canvas-covered canoe hundreds of miles down the Peace River to Lake Athabasca; then down the Slave River to Great Slave Lake. They completed their journey down the Mackenzie, Canada's longest river, to the Arctic Ocean on a small Hudson's Bay Company tug. During his travels, Innis supplemented his fur research by gathering information on other staple products such as lumber, pulp and paper, minerals, grain and fish. He travelled so extensively that by the early 1940s, he had visited every part of Canada except for the Western Arctic and the east side of Hudson Bay.\n\nEverywhere Innis went his methods were the same: he interviewed people connected with the production of staple products and listened to their stories.\n\nHarold Innis's interest in the relationship between empires and colonies was developed in his classic study, \"The Fur Trade in Canada: An Introduction to Canadian Economic History\" (1930). The book chronicles the trade in beaver fur from the early 16th century to the 1920s. Instead of focusing on the \"heroic\" European adventurers who explored the Canadian wilderness as conventional histories had done, Innis documents how the interplay of geography, technology and economic forces shaped both the fur trade and Canada's political and economic destiny. He argues that the fur trade largely determined Canada's boundaries, coming to the conclusion that the country \"emerged not in spite of geography but because of it\".\n\nIn line with this observation, Innis notably proposes that European settlement of the Saint Lawrence river valley followed the economic and social patterns of indigenous peoples, making for a Canadian historical and cultural continuity that pre-dates and post-dates European settlement. Unlike many historians who see Canadian history as beginning with the arrival of Europeans, Innis emphasizes the cultural and economic contributions of First Nations peoples. \"We have not yet realized,\" he writes, \"that the Indian and his culture was fundamental to the growth of Canadian institutions.\" This Innisian perspective on the development of Canadian political, economic and social institutions was an early form of neo-institutionalism which became an accepted part of the Canadian political science tradition well before American and European counterparts. \"The Fur Trade in Canada\" concludes by arguing that Canadian economic history can best be understood by examining how one staple product gave way to another—furs to timber, for example, and the later importance of wheat and minerals. Reliance on staples made Canada economically dependent on more industrially advanced countries and the \"cyclonic\" shifts from one staple to another caused frequent disruptions in the country's economic life.\n\n\"The Fur Trade in Canada\" also describes the cultural interactions among three groups of people: the Europeans in fashionable metropolitan centres who regarded beaver hats as luxury items; the European colonial settlers who saw beaver fur as a staple that could be exported to pay for essential manufactured goods from the home country, and First Nations peoples who traded furs for industrial goods such as metal pots, knives, guns and liquor. Innis describes the central role First Nations peoples played in the development of the fur trade. Without their skilled hunting techniques, knowledge of the territory and advanced tools such as snowshoes, toboggans and birch-bark canoes, the fur trade would not have existed. However, dependence on European technologies disrupted First Nations societies. \"The new technology with its radical innovations\", Innis writes, \"brought about such a rapid shift in the prevailing Indian culture as to lead to wholesale destruction of the peoples concerned by warfare and disease.\" Historian Carl Berger argues that by placing First Nations culture at the centre of his analysis of the fur trade, Innis \"was the first to explain adequately the disintegration of native society under the thrust of European capitalism.\"\n\nAfter the publication of his book on the fur trade, Innis turned to a study of an earlier staple—the cod fished for centuries off the eastern coasts of North America, especially the Grand Banks of Newfoundland. The result was \"The Cod Fisheries: The History of an International Economy\" published in 1940, 10 years after the fur trade study. Innis tells the detailed history of competing empires in the exploitation of a teeming natural resource—a history that ranges over 500 years. While his study of the fur trade focused on the continental interior with its interlocking rivers and lakes, \"The Cod Fisheries\" looks outward at global trade and empire, showing the far-reaching effects of one staple product both on imperial centres and on marginal colonies such as Newfoundland, Nova Scotia and New England.\n\nHarold Innis's study of the effects of interconnected lakes and rivers on Canadian development and European empire sparked his interest in the complex economic and cultural relationships between transportation systems and communications. During the 1940s, Innis also began studying pulp and paper, an industry of central importance to the Canadian economy. This research provided an additional crossover point from his work on staple products to his communications studies. Biographer Paul Heyer writes that Innis \"followed pulp and paper through its subsequent stages: newspapers and journalism, books and advertising. In other words, from looking at a natural resource-based industry he turned his attention to a cultural industry in which information, and ultimately knowledge, was a commodity that circulated, had value, and empowered those who controlled it.\"\n\nOne of Innis's primary contributions to communications studies was to apply the dimensions of time and space to various media. He divided media into time-binding and space-binding types. Time-binding media are durable. They include clay or stone tablets. Space-binding media are more ephemeral. They include modern media such as radio, television, and mass circulation newspapers.\n\nInnis examined the rise and fall of ancient empires as a way of tracing the effects of communications media. He looked at media that led to the growth of an empire; those that sustained it during its periods of success, and then, the communications changes that hastened an empire's collapse. He tried to show that media 'biases' toward time or space affected the complex interrelationships needed to sustain an empire. These interrelationships included the partnership between the knowledge (and ideas) necessary to create and maintain an empire, and the power (or force) required to expand and defend it. For Innis, the interplay between knowledge and power was always a crucial factor in understanding empire.\n\nInnis argued that a balance between the spoken word and writing contributed to the flourishing of ancient Greece in the time of Plato. This balance between the time-biased medium of speech and the space-biased medium of writing was eventually upset, Innis argued, as the oral tradition gave way to the dominance of writing. The torch of empire then passed from Greece to Rome.\n\nHarold Innis's analysis of the effects of communications on the rise and fall of empires led him to warn grimly that Western civilization was now facing its own profound crisis. The development of powerful communications media such as mass-circulation newspapers had shifted the balance decisively in favour of space and power, over time, continuity and knowledge. The balance required for cultural survival had been upset by what Innis saw as \"mechanized\" communications media used to transmit information quickly over long distances. These media had contributed to an obsession with \"present-mindedness\" wiping out concerns about past or future. Innis wrote,\nThe overwhelming pressure of mechanization evident in the newspaper and the magazine, has led to the creation of vast monopolies of communication. Their entrenched positions involve a continuous, systematic, ruthless destruction of elements of permanence essential to cultural activity.\n\nWestern civilization could only be saved, Innis argued, by recovering the balance between space and time. For him, that meant reinvigorating the oral tradition within universities while freeing institutions of higher learning from political and commercial pressures. In his essay, \"A Plea for Time\", he suggested that genuine dialogue within universities could produce the critical thinking necessary to restore the balance between power and knowledge. Then, universities could muster the courage to attack the monopolies that always imperil civilization.\n\nAlthough Innis remains appreciated and respected for the grand and unique nature of his later efforts regarding communications theories, he was not without critics. Particularly, the fragmentary and mosaic writing style exemplified in \"Empire and Communications\" has been criticized as ambiguous, aggressively non-linear, and lacking connections between levels of analysis. Biographers have suggested that this style may have been a result of Innis' illness late in his career.\n\nAside from his work on \"The Cod Fisheries\", Innis wrote extensively in the 1930s about other staple products such as minerals and wheat as well as Canada's immense economic problems in the Great Depression. During the summers of 1932 and 1933, he travelled to the West to see the effects of the Depression for himself. The next year, in an essay entitled, \"The Canadian Economy and the Depression\", Innis outlined the plight of \"a country susceptible to the slightest ground-swell of international disturbance\", yet beset by regional differences that made it difficult to devise effective solutions. He described a Prairie economy dependent on the export of wheat, yet afflicted by severe drought, on the one hand, and the increased political power of Canada's growing cities, sheltered from direct reliance on the staples trade, on the other. The result was political conflict and a breakdown in federal–provincial relations. \"We lack vital information on which to base prospective policies to meet this situation\", Innis warned, because of \"the weak position of the social sciences in Canada\".\n\nInnis's reputation as a \"public intellectual\" was growing steadily and, in 1934, Premier Angus L. Macdonald invited him to serve on a Royal Commission to examine Nova Scotia's economic problems. The next year, he helped establish \"The Canadian Journal of Economics and Political Science\". In 1936, he was appointed a full University of Toronto professor and a year later, became the head of the university's Department of Political Economy.\n\nInnis was appointed president of the Canadian Political Science Association in 1938. His inaugural address, entitled \"The Penetrative Powers of the Price System\", must have baffled his listeners as he ranged over centuries of economic history jumping abruptly from one topic to the next linking monetary developments to patterns of trade and settlement. The address was an ambitious attempt to show the disruptive effects of new technologies culminating in the modern shift from an industrial system based on coal and iron to the newest sources of industrial power, electricity, oil and steel. Innis also tried to show the commercial effects of mass circulation newspapers, made possible by expanded newsprint production, and of the new medium of radio, which \"threatens to circumvent the walls imposed by tariffs and to reach across boundaries frequently denied to other media of communication\". Both media, Innis argued, stimulated the demand for consumer goods and both promoted nationalism.\n\nInnis was also a central participant in an international project that produced 25 scholarly volumes between 1936 and 1945. It was a series called \"The Relations of Canada and the United States\" overseen by James T. Shotwell, director of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Innis edited and wrote prefaces for the volumes contributed by Canadian scholars. His own study of the cod fisheries also appeared as part of the series. His work with Shotwell enabled Innis to gain access to Carnegie money to further Canadian academic research. As John Watson points out, \"the project offered one of the few sources of research funds in rather lean times\".\n\nThe era of the \"Dirty Thirties\" with its mass unemployment, poverty and despair gave rise to new Canadian political movements. In Alberta, for example, the radio evangelist William \"Bible Bill\" Aberhart led his populist Social Credit party to victory in 1935. Three years earlier in Calgary, Alberta, social reformers had founded a new political party, the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation or CCF. It advocated democratic socialism and a mixed economy with public ownership of key industries. Frank Underhill, one of Innis's colleagues at the University of Toronto was a founding member of the CCF. Innis and Underhill had both been members of an earlier group at the university that declared itself \"dissatisfied with the policies of the two major [political] parties in Canada\" and that aimed at \"forming a definite body of progressive opinion\". In 1931, Innis presented a paper to the group on \"Economic Conditions in Canada\", but he later recoiled from participating in party politics, denouncing partisans like Underhill as \"hot gospellers\".\n\nInnis maintained that scholars had no place in active politics and that instead, they should devote themselves, first to research on public problems, and then to the production of knowledge based on critical thought. He saw the university, with its emphasis on dialogue, open-mindedness and skepticism, as an institution that could foster such thinking and research. \"The university could provide an environment\", he wrote, \"as free as possible from the biases of the various institutions that form the state, so that its intellectuals could continue to seek out and explore other perspectives.\"\n\nAlthough sympathetic to the plight of western farmers and urban, unemployed workers, Innis did not embrace socialism. Eric Havelock, a left-leaning colleague explained many years later that Innis distrusted political \"solutions\" imported from elsewhere, especially those based on Marxist analysis with its emphasis on class conflict. He worried, too, that as Canada's ties with Britain weakened, the country would fall under the spell of American ideas instead of developing its own based on Canada's unique circumstances. Havelock added:\n\nHe has been called the radical conservative of his day — not a bad designation of a complex mind, clear sighted, cautious, perhaps at bottom pessimistic in areas where thinkers we would label 'progressive' felt less difficulty in taking a stand; never content to select only one or two elements in a complicated equation in order to build a quick-order policy or program; far ranging enough in intellect to take in the whole sum of the factors, and comprehend their often contradictory effects.\nIn the 1940s, Harold Innis reached the height of his influence in both academic circles and Canadian society. In 1941, he helped establish the American-based Economic History Association and its \"Journal of Economic History\". He later became the association's second president. Innis played a central role in founding two important sources for the funding of academic research: the Canadian Social Science Research Council (1940) and the Humanities Research Council of Canada (1944).\n\nIn 1944, the University of New Brunswick awarded Innis an honorary degree, as did his alma mater, McMaster University. Université Laval, the University of Manitoba and the University of Glasgow would also confer honorary degrees in 1947–48.\n\nIn 1945, Innis spent nearly a month in the Soviet Union where he had been invited to attend the 220th anniversary celebrations marking the founding of the country's Academy of Sciences. Later, in his essay \"Reflections on Russia\", he mused about the differences between the Soviet \"producer\" economy and the West's \"consumer\" ethos:\n\n[A]n economy which emphasizes consumer's goods is characterized by communication industries largely dependent on advertising and by constant efforts to reach the largest number of readers or listeners; an economy emphasizing producer's goods is characterized by communications industries largely dependent on government support. As a result of this contrast, a common public opinion in Russia and the West is hard to achieve.\nInnis's trip to Moscow and Leningrad came shortly before U.S.–Soviet rivalry led to the hostility of the Cold War. Innis lamented this rise in international tensions. He saw the Soviet Empire as a stabilizing counterbalance to the American Empire's emphasis on commercialism, the individual and constant change. For Innis, Russia was a society within the Western tradition, not an alien civilization. He abhorred the nuclear arms race, seeing it as the triumph of force over knowledge, a modern form of the medieval Inquisition. \"The Middle Ages burned its heretics\", he wrote, \"and the modern age threatens them with atom bombs.\"\n\nIn 1946, Innis was elected president of the Royal Society of Canada, the country's senior body of scientists and scholars. That same year, he served on the Manitoba Royal Commission on Adult Education and published \"Political Economy in the Modern State\", a collection of his speeches and essays that reflected both his staples research and his new work in communications. In 1947, Innis was appointed the University of Toronto's dean of graduate studies. In 1948, he delivered lectures at the University of London and Nottingham University. He also gave the prestigious Beit lectures at Oxford, later published in his book \"Empire and Communications\". In 1949, Innis was appointed as a commissioner on the federal government's Royal Commission on Transportation, a position that involved extensive travel at a time when his health was starting to fail. The last decade of his career during which he worked on his communications studies was an unhappy time for Innis. He was academically isolated because his colleagues in economics could not fathom how this new work related to his pioneering research in staples theory. Biographer John Watson writes that \"the almost complete lack of positive response to the communications works, contributed to his sense of overwork and depression\".\n\nInnis died of prostate cancer in 1952 a few days after his 58th birthday. In commemoration, Innis College at the University of Toronto and Innis Library at McMaster University were named in his honour.\n\nFollowing his premature death, Innis' significance increasingly deepened as scholars in several academic disciplines continued to build upon his writings. Marshall Poe's general media theory that proposes two sub-theories were inspired by Innis. Douglas C. North expanded on of Innis' \"vent for surplus\" theory of economic development by applying it to regional development in the United States and underdeveloped countries. In addition, James W. Carey adopted Innis as a \"reference point in his conception of two models of communication\".\n\nMarshall McLuhan was a colleague of Innis's at the University of Toronto. As a young English professor, McLuhan was flattered when he learned that Innis had put his book \"The Mechanical Bride\" on the reading list of the fourth-year economics course. McLuhan built on Innis's idea that in studying the effects of communications media, technological form mattered more than content. Biographer Paul Heyer writes that Innis's concept of the \"bias\" of a particular medium of communication can be seen as a \"less flamboyant precursor to McLuhan's legendary phrase 'the medium is the message.'\" Innis, for example, tried to show how printed media such as books or newspapers were \"biased\" toward control over space and secular power, while engraved media such as stone or clay tablets were \"biased\" in favour of continuity in time and metaphysical or religious knowledge. McLuhan focused on what may be called a medium's \"sensory bias\" arguing, for example, that books and newspapers appealed to the rationality of the eye, while radio played to the irrationality of the ear. The differences in the Innisian and McLuhanesque approaches were summarized by the late James W. Carey:\n\nBoth McLuhan and Innis assume the centrality of communication technology; where they differ is in the principal kinds of effects they see deriving from this technology. Whereas Innis sees communication technology principally affecting social organization and culture, McLuhan sees its principal effect on sensory organization and thought. McLuhan has much to say about perception and thought but little to say about institutions; Innis says much about institutions and little about perception and thought.\nBiographer John Watson notes that Innis's work was profoundly political while McLuhan's was not. He writes that \"the mechanization of knowledge, not the relative sensual bias of media, is the key to Innis's work. This also underlies the politicization of Innis's position vis-a-vis that of McLuhan.\" Watson adds that Innis believed very different media could produce similar effects. \"For Innis, the yellow press of the United States and the Nazi loudspeaker had the same form of negative effect: they reduced men from thinking beings to mere automatons in a chain of command.\" Watson argues that while McLuhan separated media according to their sensory bias, Innis examined a different set of interrelationships, the \"dialectic of power and knowledge\" in specific historical circumstances. For Watson, Innis's work is therefore more flexible and less deterministic than McLuhan's.\n\nAs scholars and teachers, Innis and McLuhan shared a similar dilemma since both argued that book culture tended to produce fixed points of view and homogeneity of thought; yet both produced many books. In his introduction to the 1964 reprint of \"The Bias of Communication\", McLuhan marvelled at Innis's technique of juxtaposing \"his insights in a mosaic structure of seemingly unrelated and disproportioned sentences and aphorisms\". McLuhan argued that although this made reading Innis's dense prose difficult—\"a pattern of insights that are not packaged for the consumer palate\"—Innis's method approximated \"the natural form of conversation or dialogue rather than of written discourse\". Best of all, it yielded \"insight\" and \"pattern recognition\" rather than the \"classified knowledge\" so overvalued by print-trained scholars. \"How exciting it was to encounter a writer whose every phrase invited prolonged meditation and exploration\", McLuhan added. McLuhan's own books with their reliance on aphorisms, puns, quips, \"probes\" and oddly juxtaposed observations also employ this mosaic technique.\n\nInnis's theories of political economy, media and society remain highly relevant: he had a profound influence on critical media theory and communications and, in conjunction with McLuhan, offered groundbreaking Canadian perspectives on the function of communication technologies as key agents in social and historical change. Together, their works advanced a theory of history in which communication is central to social change and transformation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37682487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37682487", "title": "Historical medieval battles", "text": "Historical medieval battles\n\nHistorical Medieval Battles (HMB) is a rather young modern sport, full contact fighting with the use of offensive and defensive weapons characteristic of the Middle Ages. Specifically the armour and weapons must be of the style from the dates 1200 to 1699, with location irrelevant. HMB is a full contact fighting on steel blunt weapons. Fighters are dressed in full armor, which, like the weapons, is made according to historical standards. One person's full set of armour must originate from the same place and within a fifty-year time span. Blows may be aimed at any parts of the body (with the limitations set in the regulations); both wrestling and percussive techniques are permitted.\n\nUnlike staged battles, that can be seen at festivals of historical reenactment of the Middle Ages, the battles are held in full contact, are refereed by the referees who have special training and combat experience.\n\nHistorical medieval battle is a sporting component of historical reenactment of the Middle Ages. Battles of the athletes usually take place at festivals of historical reenactment. The main competition for the fighters practitising them, has recently become \"Battle of the Nations\", an international championship on historical medieval battle.\n\nThe main idea of this element of reenactment is, on the one hand, the maximum competitive component for the participants, on the other - an opportunity to test the historical equipment in conditions close to a real combat. Therefore, to participate in battles one needs equipment that once really existed.\n\nIn order to reduce injuries the equipment is thoroughly checked before battles, all the weapons are blunt.\n\nUnlike historical fencing, historical medieval battle takes a lot from modern martial arts, with wrestling technique as an important component, which is not forbidden, and even mandatory.\n\nHistorical medieval battle dates back to the first large-scale battles with the use of steel arms, which were held in Russia in the late 1990s and the beginning of the 21st century, at times when in the rest of the CIS countries reenactors used wooden or textolite weapons. An example is the festival \"Zhelezny Grad\" (Iron Town) held in Izborsk, where buhurts involving hundreds of fighters took place.\n\nTournaments on historical medieval battle gradually began to take place in neighboring states, namely Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, but they reached European countries not immediately.\n\nHistorical medieval battle, like any other sport, has several categories. All its categories can be divided into mass and single ones.\n\nSingle categories, namely \"one vs one\" are divided into tournaments and professional fights in their turn.\n\nPoints / hits are counted in tournaments (duels); a fighter has to deliver a certain number of blows (usually 10) to his opponent, or gain the maximum number of points within a certain period of time (2–3 minutes). The tournaments in turn are divided into:\n\n\nThere is also a category called \"Triathlon\": three rounds with different weapons, the first one - \"longsword\", the second one - \"sword-buckler\", the third one - \"shield-sword.\"\n\nThe second \"single\" HMB category is professional fights. A fight is held in the format of \"three rounds of three minutes.\" According to the rules, any techniques aimed at delivering blows to any part of the body, except for the neck, back of the knee, groin, eyes, feet, and back of the head, if an opponent is bent, are allowed (except for thrusts, which are prohibited in all HMB categories). All other things, including 3-second ground fighting with no active movements of the opponents are allowed.\n\n\nThe rules of mass battles are slightly different. The “kill zones” are the same, but the winner is the one who remains standing on his feet, hits are not counted.\n\nIn addition to these categories, there are some others, such as the \"2 vs 2\" (which is held in the “deathmatch” mode: several two-member units meet on the lists, the battle is \"all against all\" and the winner is the two-member unit, of which at least one fighter is on his feet); \"10 vs 10\" and others. HMB categories often can be created for a specific festival, depending on its objectives and specific requirements of historicity.\n\nWorkouts are held in accordance with the most effective modern methods of training available in the martial arts. HMB fighters practise weight lifting (because to fight in armor, weighing thirty kg, one must be relatively strong, and have good coordination of movements), related martial arts (wrestling, sambo, Muay Thai, MMA etc.), run. etc. Fighters often use groundwork of other contact martial arts in their training practices.\n\nThere are unified international rules for the battles. They prohibit a number of very traumatic techniques, as well as regulate the admission of fighters and their weapons in order to observe the historical reliability of equipment, and also to eliminate serious injuries. Due to the fact that different countries used to have different fighting rules, the first unified rules were developed specifically for the world championship on historical medieval battle, \"Battle of the Nations.\" However, the rules used at a local tournament may still differ (for example it may be prohibited to deliver blows to certain areas, e.g. below the knee, elbow, etc.), but the international rating events are conducted in accordance with the accepted international rules for historical medieval battles.\n"}
{"id": "239320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239320", "title": "Ignatius L. Donnelly", "text": "Ignatius L. Donnelly\n\nIgnatius Loyola Donnelly (November 3, 1831 – January 1, 1901) was a U.S. Congressman, populist writer, and amateur scientist. He is known primarily now for his theories concerning Atlantis, Catastrophism (especially the idea of an ancient impact event affecting ancient civilizations), and Shakespearean authorship, which many modern historians consider to be pseudoscience and pseudohistory. Donnelly's work corresponds to the writings of late 19th and early 20th century figures such as Helena Blavatsky, Rudolf Steiner, and James Churchward.\n\nDonnelly was the son of Philip Carrol Donnelly, an Irish Catholic immigrant who had settled in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. His sister was the writer Eleanor C. Donnelly. On June 29, 1826, Philip had married Catherine Gavin, a second generation American of Irish ancestry.\n\nAfter starting as a peddler, Philip studied medicine at the Philadelphia College of Medicine. He later contracted typhus from a patient and died at age 31, leaving his wife with five children.\n\nCatherine provided for her children by operating a pawn shop. Ignatius, her youngest son, was admitted to the prestigious Central High School, the second oldest public high school in the United States. There he studied under the presidency of John S. Hart, excelling primarily in literature.\n\nDonnelly decided to become a lawyer, and became a clerk for Benjamin Brewster, who later became Attorney-General of the United States. Donnelly was admitted to the bar in 1852. In 1855, he married Katherine McCaffrey, with whom he had three children. In 1855, he resigned his clerkship, entered politics, and participated in communal home building schemes. He quit the Catholic Church some time in the 1850s, and thereafter was never active in any religious group.\n\nDonnelly moved to the Minnesota Territory in 1857 amidst rumors of financial scandal, and there he settled in Dakota County. He initiated a utopian community called Nininger City, together with several partners. However, the Panic of 1857 doomed the attempt at a cooperative farm and community, and left Donnelly deeply in debt.\n\nHis wife Katherine died in 1894. In 1898, he married his secretary, Marian Hanson.\n\nDonnelly died on January 1, 1901, in Minneapolis, Minnesota, age 69 years. He is buried at Calvary Cemetery in St. Paul, Minnesota. His personal papers are archived at the Minnesota Historical Society.\n\nDonnelly entered politics and was lieutenant governor of Minnesota from 1860–1863. He was a Radical Republican Congressman from Minnesota in the 38th, 39th, and 40th congresses, (1863–1869), a state senator from 1874–1878 and 1891-1894 and a state representative from 1887-1888 and 1897-1898. As a legislator, he advocated extending the powers of the Freedmen's Bureau to provide education for freedmen so that they could protect themselves once the bureau was withdrawn. Donnelly was also an early supporter of women's suffrage. After leaving the Minnesota State Senate in 1878, he returned to his law practice and writing.\n\nIn 1877, Donnelly spoke at a meeting of 10,000 people where he read his preamble to the conference platform. The document of twelve short paragraphs, as altered slightly for the party’s first nominating convention in Omaha that July, was the pithiest—and soon became the most widely circulated—statement of the Populist credo. Donnelly talked about the corruption of politics and voting, newspapers giving out false and bias material, and how the Populists needed to take back the country that was their own.\n\nIn 1882, he published \"\", his best known work. It details theories concerning the mythical lost continent of Atlantis. The book sold well, and is widely credited with initiating the theme of Atlantis as an antediluvian civilization that became such a feature of popular literature during the 20th century, and contributed to the emergence of Mayanism. Donnelly suggested that Atlantis, whose story was told by Plato in the dialogues of Timaeus and Critias, had been destroyed during the same event remembered in the Bible as the Great Flood. He cited research on the ancient Maya civilization by Charles Étienne Brasseur de Bourbourg and Augustus Le Plongeon, claiming that it had been the place of a common origin of ancient civilizations in Africa (especially ancient Egypt), Europe, and the Americas). He also thought that it had been the original home of an Aryan race whose red-haired, blue-eyed descendants could be found in Ireland.\n\nA year after \"Atlantis\", he published \"\", in which he expounded his belief that the Flood (as well as the destruction of Atlantis and the extinction of the mammoth) had been brought about by the near-collision of the earth with a massive comet. This book also sold well, and both books seem to have had an important influence on the development of Immanuel Velikovsky's controversial ideas half a century later.\n\nIn 1888, he published \"The Great Cryptogram\" in which he proposed that Shakespeare's plays had been written by Francis Bacon, an idea that was popular during the late 19th and early 20th century. He then travelled to England to arrange the English publication of his book by Sampson Low, speaking at the Oxford (and Cambridge) Union, where his thesis \"Resolved, that the works of William Shakespeare were composed by Francis Bacon\" was put to an unsuccessful vote. The book was a complete failure and Donnelly was discredited.\n\nDonnelly also made several other campaigns for public office during the 1880s. He made a losing campaign for Congress (this time as a Democrat) in 1884. In 1887, he successfully campaigned for a seat in the Minnesota State Legislature as an Independent. During this period, he was also an organizer of the Minnesota Farmers' Alliance.\n\nIn 1892, Donnelly wrote the preamble of the People's Party's Omaha Platform for the presidential campaign of that year. He was nominated for Vice President of the United States in 1900 by the People's Party, also known as the Populist Party. The People's Party was a development of the national Farmers' Alliance, and had a platform that demanded abandonment of the gold standard (and later for free silver), abolition of national banks, a graduated income tax, direct election of senators, civil service reform, and an eight-hour day. That year, Donnelly also campaigned for governor of Minnesota, but was defeated.\n\nThe People's Party protested the railroad companies corrupting government, and advocated government regulation of the railroads. Donnelly had a key leadership role in this party, yet he received $10,000 from the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company.\n\nDuring the 1930s, an organization was formed to lobby for the creation of a state park at Donnelly's home at Nininger near Hastings, Minnesota. The house was still standing in 1939, but the effort failed and the house has since been demolished.\n\nDonnelly's writings on Atlantis have been rejected by scholars and scientists. He has been described as a crank and pseudoscience promoter.\n\nGordon Stein has noted that \"most of what Donnelly said was highly questionable or downright wrong.\"\n\nHis books include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228250", "title": "Islamic studies", "text": "Islamic studies\n\nIslamic studies refers to the study of Islam. Islamic studies can be seen under at least two perspectives:\n\n\n\nIn a Muslim context, Islamic studies is the umbrella term for the Islamic sciences (\"'Ulum al-din\"). It includes all the traditional forms of religious thought, such as \"kalam\" (Islamic theology) and \"fiqh\" (Islamic jurisprudence), but also incorporates fields generally considered secular in the West, such as Islamic science and Islamic economics.\n\nIn a non-Muslim context, Islamic studies generally refers to the historical study of Islam: Islamic civilization, Islamic history and historiography, Islamic law, Islamic theology and Islamic philosophy. Academics from diverse disciplines participate and exchange ideas about Islamic societies, past and present, although Western, academic Islamic studies itself is in many respects a self-conscious and self-contained field. Specialists in the discipline apply methods adapted from several ancillary fields, ranging from Biblical studies and classical philology to modern history, legal history and sociology. A recent trend, particularly since 9/11, has been the study of contemporary Islamist groups and movements by academics from the social sciences or in many cases by journalists, although since such works tend to be written by non-Arabists they belong outside the field of Islamic studies proper.\n\nScholars in the field of academic Islamic studies are often referred to as \"Islamicists\" and the discipline traditionally made up the bulk of what used to be called Oriental studies. In fact, some of the more traditional Western universities still confer degrees in Arabic and Islamic studies under the primary title of \"Oriental studies\". This is the case, for example, at the University of Oxford, where Classical Arabic and Islamic studies have been taught since as early as the 16th century, originally as a sub-division of Divinity. This latter context gave early academic Islamic studies its Biblical studies character and was also a consequence of the fact that throughout early-Modern Western Europe the discipline was developed by churchmen whose primary aim had actually been to refute the tenets of Islam. Despite their now generally secular, academic approach, many non-Muslim Islamic studies scholars have written works which are widely read by Muslims, while in recent decades an increasing number of Muslim-born scholars have trained and taught as academic Islamicists in Western universities. Many leading universities in Europe and the US offer academic degrees at both undergraduate and postgraduate level in Islamic studies, in which students can also study Arabic and therefore begin to read Islamic texts in the original language. Because Arabic and Islamic studies are generally seen as inseparable in academia, named undergraduate degrees that combine the two are usually still categorized as single-subject degrees rather than as 'joint' or 'combined' degrees like, for example, those in Arabic and Politics. This rationale explains why, because of their heavy emphasis on the detailed study of Islamic texts in Classical Arabic, some institutionssuch as the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) in London and Georgetown University in Washington DConly accept graduates who already have degree-level Arabic and a strong background in the academic study of Islam onto their Masters programmes in Islamic studies. Such institutions will generally direct students new to the field and with little or no Arabic to broader master's degrees in Middle Eastern studies or Middle East politics, in which Arabic can be studied \"ab initio\".\n\nA recent HEFCE report emphasises the increasing, strategic importance for Western governments since 9/11 of Islamic studies in higher education and also provides an international overview of the state of the field.\n\nIslamic studies is often argued by Muslims, to begin with, the founding of the Islamic religion by Abraham, continue throughout the history of Judaism with Islamic Prophets such as David and Solomon, then early Christianity with Jesus in particular, and then up to modern times with the final revelation of God as revealed to the Prophet Muhammad.\n\nThe first attempt to understand Islam as a topic of modern scholarship (as opposed to a Christological heresy) was within the context of 19th-century Christian European Oriental studies.\n\nIn the years 1821 to 1850, the Royal Asiatic Society in England, the Société Asiatique in France, the Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft in Germany, and the American Oriental Society in the United States were founded.\n\nIn the 2nd half of the 19th century, philological and historical approaches were predominant. Leading in the field were German researchers like Theodore Nöldeke 's study on the history of the Quran, or Ignaz Goldziher 's work on the prophetic tradition.\n\nWestern orientalists and Muslim scholars alike preferred to interpret the history of Islam in a conservative way. They did not question the traditional account of the early time of Islam, of Muhammad and how the Quran was written.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Revisionist School of Islamic Studies questioned the uncritical adherence to traditional Islamic sources and started to develop a new picture of the earliest times of Islam by applying the historical-critical method.\n\nTo understand the history of Islam provides the indispensable basis to understand all aspects of Islam and its culture. Themes of special interest are:\n\n\"Kalam\" () is one of the \"religious sciences\" of Islam. In Arabic, the word means \"discussion\" and refers to the Islamic tradition of seeking theological principles through dialectic. A scholar of \"kalam\" is referred to as a \"mutakallim\".\n\n\nSufism ( \"taṣawwuf\") is a mystic tradition of Islam based on the pursuit of spiritual truth as it is gradually revealed to the heart and mind of the Sufi (one who practices Sufism).\n\nIt might also be referred to as Islamic mysticism. While other branches of Islam generally focus on exoteric aspects of religion, Sufism is mainly focused on the direct perception of truth or God through mystic practices based on divine love. Sufism embodies a number of cultures, philosophies, central teachings and bodies of esoteric knowledge.\n\nIslamic jurisprudence relates to everyday and social issues in the life of Muslims. It is divided in fields like:\n\nKey distinctions include those between \"fiqh\", \"hadith\" and \"ijtihad\".\n\nIslamic philosophy is a part of Islamic studies. It is a longstanding attempt to create harmony between faith, reason or philosophy, and the religious teachings of Islam. A Muslim engaged in this field is called a Muslim philosopher.\n\nIt is divided in fields like:\n\nIslam and science is science in the context of traditional religious ideas of Islam, including its ethics and prohibitions. A Muslim engaged in this field is called a Muslim scientist\n\nThis is not the same as science as conducted by any Muslim in a secular context. Certain liberal movements in Islam eschew the practice of Islamic science, arguing that science should be considered separate from religion as it is today in the West. As in Catholicism however, believers argue that the guiding role of religion in forming ethics of science cannot be ignored and must impose absolute constraints on inquiry.\n\nScience in medieval Islam examines the full range of scientific investigation in the Muslim world, whether performed within a religious or secular context. Significant progress in science was made in the Muslim world during the Middle Ages, especially during the Islamic Golden Age, which is considered a major period in the history of science.\n\n\nThis field includes the study of modern and classical Arabic and the literature written in those languages. It also often includes other modern, classic or ancient languages of the Middle East and other areas that are or have been part of, or influenced by, Islamic culture, such as Hebrew, Turkish, Persian, Urdu, Azerbaijanian and Uzbek.\n\nIslamic architecture is the entire range of architecture that has evolved within Muslim culture in the course of the history of Islam. Hence the term encompasses religious buildings as well as secular ones, historic as well as modern expressions and the production of all places that have come under the varying levels of Islamic influence.\n\nIt is very common to mistake Persian architecture for Islamic architecture.\n\n\nIslamic visual art has, throughout history, been mainly abstract and decorative, portraying geometric, floral, Arabesque, and calligraphic designs. Unlike the strong tradition of portraying the human figure in Christian art, Islamic art is typically distinguished as not including depictions of human beings. The lack of portraiture is due to the fact that early Islam forbade the painting of human beings, especially the Prophet, as Muslims believe this tempts followers of the Prophet to idolatry. This prohibition against human beings or icons is called aniconism. Despite such a prohibition, depictions of human beings do occur Islamic art, such as that of the Mughals, demonstrating a strong diversity in popular interpretation over the pre-modern period. Increased contact with the Western civilization may also have contributed to human depictions in Islamic art in modern times.\n\nIslamic comparative religion is the study of religions in the view of Islam. This study may be undertaken from a conservative Muslim perspective, which often sees Judaism and Christianity as having been originally similar to Islam, and later developing away from the root monotheist religion. However, some liberal movements within Islam dispute the conservative view as being ahistorical; they claim that Islam is the end-result rather than the origin point of monotheist thought.\n\n\nIslamic economics is economics in accordance with Islamic law. Because the Qur'an spoke against usury in the context of early Muslim society, it generally entails trying to remove or redefine interest rates from financial institutions. In doing so, Islamic economists hope to produce a more \"Islamic society\". However, liberal movements within Islam may deny the need for this field, since they generally see Islam as compatible with modern secular institutions and law.\n\n\nAn interesting field of study is how Islam reacts on the contact with Western modernity, and how Islam can catch up with modernity without betraying itself. These studies comprise Islamic history, Islamic theology, Islamic Mysticism, and Islamic philosophy, as well as the study of Western philosophy, sociology and politology.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10836177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10836177", "title": "Jesús María Cavanna", "text": "Jesús María Cavanna\n\nRev. Fr. Jesús María Cavanna y Manso, C.M., was a Catholic priest from the order of the Congregation of the Mission, more commonly known as the Vincentian Fathers. He was the author of \"Rizal's Unfading Glory\" published in 1956, a documentary of Jose Rizal's conversion to Catholicism. Another book Fr. Cavanna wrote is the \"Basic Christian Doctrine \"(1982).\n\nFr. Cavanna was of Filipino-Spanish heritage. He often spoke in English and Spanish but he was also very fluent in Tagalog (Philippines' national language), and Latin. He spent his last years as a formator, spiritual advisor and teacher to Vincentian Seminarians in Quezon City.\n\nFr. Cavanna died in San Juan De Dios Hospital in 1994. He was a well loved and respected member of the Vincentian family.\n"}
{"id": "41735344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41735344", "title": "John E. Murdoch", "text": "John E. Murdoch\n\nJohn Emery Murdoch (May 10, 1927 – September 16, 2010) was an American academic. Educated in philosophy at the\nUniversity of Wisconsin–Madison, Murdoch spent most of his career at Harvard University. At Harvard, he was Professor of History of Science and Chair of the Department from 1966 to 1971 and 1974 to 1975. He specialized in ancient and medieval medicine and philosophy, and published numerous materials on the topic. Murdoch was awarded the George Sarton Medal in 2009 for his scholarship.\n"}
{"id": "42548194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42548194", "title": "Joseph Omer Joly de Fleury", "text": "Joseph Omer Joly de Fleury\n\nJoseph Omer Joly de Fleury (1715-1810) was a member of the distinguished Joly de Fleury family, originally from Burgundy, from which came a number of leading French magistrates and officials under the ancien regime. He is notable for four principal things: his strong opposition to the philosophes and the publication of the \"Encyclopedie\" in 1759; his role in the expulsion of the Jesuits; his involvement in the Lally Tollendal Affair; and his ban on inoculation against smallpox in June 1763. In a pun on his name, Voltaire described him as ‘ni Homère, ni joli, ni fleuri' ( = neither Homer, nor pretty, nor flowery, a sarcastic comment on his apparently dreary oratory). In one of his private letters, Voltaire described him as a ‘little black balloon puffed up with stinking vapours’ \n\nHe was the son of , of the Parlement of Paris and of Marie Francoise Le Maistre. His brothers were Guillaume-François-Louis Joly de Fleury (1710-1787) who succeeded their father in his post as Procurator General, and Jean-François Joly de Fleury (1718-1802), intendant of Dijon and Administrator General of Finances. Joseph-Omer himself was Advocate General to the Grand Conseil (1737-1746), from 1746, to the Parlement of Paris, and ultimately became président à mortier.\n\nOn 7 February 1752, after the second volume of the \"Encyclopédie\" was published, Joly de Fleury charged in a decree presented to the Grand Conseil that \"these two volumes...insert several maxims tending to destroy Royal Authority, to institute the spirit of independence and revolt, and, in obscure and ambiguous words, to erect the foundations of error, of the corruption of morals, of irreligion and unbelief\". The resulting controversy was only settled when the editors agreed that all future volumes were to be reviewed by censors personally appointed by Bishop Boyer, the Dauphin's preceptor.\n\nOn 23 January 1759, following the publication of the seventh volume of the \"Encyclopedie\", with its controversial article on Geneva, Joly de Fleury condemned it again, together with Helvetius' \"De l’Esprit\" and six other books to the Paris Parlement. His opening statement was ‘Society, the State and Religion present themselves today at the tribunal of justice… their rights have been violated, their laws disregarded. Impiety walks with head held high…. Humanity shudders, the citizenry is alarmed.’ These evils he blamed on ‘a sect of so-called Philosophers (the Philosophes)… who imagined a project… to destroy the basic truths engraved in our hearts by the hand of the Creator, to abolish his cult and his ministers, and to establish instead Materialism and Deism.’ As a result of his speech the Parlement banned the publishers of the Encyclopedie from selling any more copies, and established a commission of enquiry to look in detail at the content of the seven published volumes. In March 1759 Parlement revoked the Encyclopedie’s permission to publish altogether. After this ban, work on the remaining volumes of the Encyclopedie had to continue underground. \"De L’Esprit\" and seven other publications were ordered to be lacerated and burned in front of the Palais de Justice on 10 February. In 1765 Joly de Fleury further demanded, and secured, a condemnation by Parlement of Voltaire’s \"Dictionnaire Philosophique\".\n\nThe Parlement of Paris and the Jesuit Order were often at odds in eighteenth-century France. In 1759 the Jesuits were expelled from Portugal and tensions in France escalated around a complex fraud which involved a number of court cases in the 1750s and early 1760s.\nOn 6 August 1762, on the initiative of Joly de Fleury, the Parlement of Paris issued a decree depriving the Jesuits of all of their property. It required them to cease to live in their communities and to disperse. It forbade them to correspond with each other or to exercise any function. Later Joly de Fleury regretted the part he had played in the suppression of the order, whose equal, he then said, could not be found in science and learning.\n\nThe practice of inoculation against smallpox was introduced to Paris by an Italian doctor named Gatti and by 1763 he had inoculated ninety-seven people. However, there was public consternation when some of those he had inoculated did not remain in quarantine as prescribed, and went freely around the city, potentially risking the health of others. It was said that this was the origin of the epidemic that struck Paris in late 1762 and early 1763. \nJoly de Fleury responded to this emergency by asking the Paris Parlement to vote to refer the question of inoculation to the Faculties of Medicine and Theology at the Sorbonne. In June 1763 the Parlement ordered that no further inoculations take place in Paris until the Faculties had rendered their judgement on the matter. Inoculations were allowed to continue outside the city, and those already inoculated were required to maintain quarantine for six weeks.\n\nThis apparently pragmatic approach quickly foundered as the physicians could not agree and published rival reports. This started a war of polemics between proponents and opponents of the practice, which effectively became a proxy for the continued struggle between the philosophes and the clerical conservatives. Joly de Fleury was the object of much mockery and abuse during these exchanges. In particular, Joly de Fleury’s efforts made him the target of one of Voltaire’s satirical pamphlets, or facéties. Not only did Voltaire hate him for his opposition to the philosophes, but he was also in favour of inoculation.\n\nJoly de Fleury was also involved in one of the longest-running and most acrimonious legal disputes in late eighteenth century France, the Lally-Tollendal case. Lally Tollendal was a French commander in India. Defeated by the British, he was taken as a prisoner of war to England. He was falsely accused of treason, and returned to France to clear his name. Joly de Fleury brought formal charges against him, but when his trial began in 1764, Lally Tollendal had not received any documentation of the charges, and was not allowed a defence lawyer. Throughout the trial, which lasted for two years, Lally Tollendal fought against Joly de Fleury’s charges but on 6 May 1766 he was convicted and sentenced to death. On learning of his execution Voltaire began to campaign for his posthumous rehabilitation, which was obtained from Louis XVI in 1778. The case was considered to be one of the great miscarriages of justice in ancien regime France.\n"}
{"id": "15693884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15693884", "title": "José Mancisidor", "text": "José Mancisidor\n\nJosé Mancisidor Ortiz (Veracruz, Veracruz; April 20, 1894 – Monterrey, Nuevo León; August 22, 1956) was a Mexican writer, historian and politician.\n\nJosé Mancisidor Ortiz was born on April 20, 1894, in Veracruz, Veracruz, Mexico, the fifth of eleven children to Jorge Tomás Mancisidor Oyarzábal (1860–1921) and Catalina Ortiz Alpuche: Jorge, Rodolfo, Catalina, Esperanza, José, Anselmo, Carmela, Raimundo, María, Emilio and Francisco. He received his primary education from the \"Francisco Javier Clavijero\" School, and later went to learn a trade at the vocational school of the Secretariat of the Navy, located at the San Juan de Ulúa Fortress, until his third year reaching the rank of sergeant. In April 1914 he got engaged in the defense of the port of Veracruz against the occupation by United States Marine Corps. He escaped to join the Constitutionalist Army of General Cándido Aguilar who incorporated him to the First Regiment of Artillery of the First Eastern Division with the rank of lieutenant. His military career continued till 1920, and participated in the Mexican Revolution within the Constitutionalist Army of Venustiano Carranza, reaching the rank of Lieutenant Colonel of Artillery and getting appointed Military Commander and Governor of the Quintana Roo territory. He got married to Dolores Varela in 1917 with whom he had five children: Orlando, Arnaldo, Kolda, Elvia and Yolanda. Between 1920 and 1922 he was municipal syndic of Xalapa. On December 8, 1923, he got engaged in organizing the civil defense of the city against the de la Huerta uprising. From 1926 to 1929, he was local deputy for the Xalapa district. He supported the uprising of General Arnulfo R. Gómez in the state under the orders of General Miguel Alemán González; however, after the execution of Gómez in 1927 he accepted to amnesty offered by the government. One more time, in 1929, he joined the failed Escobar uprising led by General Jesús M. Aguirre, who adhered to General José Gonzalo Escobar, who previously fought against, defeated and executed General Arnulfo R. Gómez.\n\nLeft without political or military possibilities, José Mancisidor was appointed director of the Veracruz state government press by Governor Adalberto Tejeda, who had already distanced himself from the \"Jefe Máximo\", the political chieftain, Plutarco Elías Calles. In 1932, Mancisidor became History Professor at the Veracruzan Normal School \"Enrique C. Rébsamen\", counting only with his primary education. In those years he collaborated with \"Simiente\" journal, he edited a journal titled \"Ruta\", created his own publishing house called \"Integrales\", and published his first novels: \"La asonada\" (\"The Riot\") and \"La ciudad roja\" (\"The Red City\").\n\nIn April 1935 he traveled to New York City as the Mexican Delegate to the First American Writers Congress which eventually founded the League of American Writers. Fomented by Communists who hoped to nurture Proletarian literature the First Congress was presided over by Waldo Frank and was attended by important novelists, such as John Steinbeck, John Dos Passos and many others, who eventually abandoned the push for Marxist literature. Mancisidor remained faithful to the cause and published numerous works.\n\nIn June 1935, the governor of the state of Veracruz, Gonzalo Vázquez Vela, was appointed as Secretary of Public Education by President Lázaro Cárdenas, and included José Mancisidor within his team of associates that also included Luis Chávez Orozco, Rafael Ramos Pedrueza and Germán Lizt Arzubide, among others.\n\nIn 1936, he traveled to the Soviet Union where he met President Mikhail Kalinin, the Azerbaijani President Majid Afandiyev, among other politicians, and attended Maxim Gorky's funerals. When Manuel Ávila Camacho became president, changes were made within the Secretariat of Public Education, thus Mancisidor left his position and continued to teach history classes at the National Professors School, the National Normal School, the Secondary School for Young Women No. 8 and the Worker's University of Mexico. He died on August 22, 1956, after fainting while giving a conference at the Autonomous University of Nuevo León, in Monterrey.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42109351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42109351", "title": "List of archives in Algeria", "text": "List of archives in Algeria\n\nThis is list of archives in Algeria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "796442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796442", "title": "Logic bomb", "text": "Logic bomb\n\nA logic bomb is a piece of code intentionally inserted into a software system that will set off a malicious function when specified conditions are met. For example, a programmer may hide a piece of code that starts deleting files (such as a salary database trigger), should they ever be terminated from the company.\n\nSoftware that is inherently malicious, such as viruses and worms, often contain logic bombs that execute a certain payload at a pre-defined time or when some other condition is met. This technique can be used by a virus or worm to gain momentum and spread before being noticed. Some viruses attack their host systems on specific dates, such as Friday the 13th or April Fools' Day. Trojans that activate on certain dates are often called \"time bombs\".\n\nTo be considered a logic bomb, the payload should be unwanted and unknown to the user of the software. As an example, trial programs with code that disables certain functionality after a set time are not normally regarded as logic bombs.\n\nIt has been reported that in 1982, the Trans-Siberian Pipeline incident occurred because of a logic bomb. (It was later reported that this story may be a hoax.) A KGB operative was reported to have stolen the plans for a sophisticated control system and its software from a Canadian firm, for use on their Siberian pipeline. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) was supposedly tipped off by documents in the Farewell Dossier and had the company insert a logic bomb in the program for sabotage purposes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36327388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36327388", "title": "Louis Heilprin", "text": "Louis Heilprin\n\nLouis Heilprin (1851–1912) was a Hungarian American author, historian, and encyclopedia editor. He was born in Miskolc, Hungary in 1851. His father, Michael, son of Phineas Mendel, was also an encyclopedist and scholar of Hebrew history and literature and a follower of Lajos Kossuth. He had a younger brother Angelo who was a professor at the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences and two sisters. The family left Hungary as refugees in 1856. Heilprin was educated by his father.\n\nLouis and his father were both contributors to the \"American Encyclopedia\", \"Century Encyclopedia of Names\", \"New International Encyclopedia\", and \"Lippincott's Pronouncing Gazetteer\". He also wrote articles for \"The Evening Post\" and \"The Nation\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37060655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37060655", "title": "Mehram nagar", "text": "Mehram nagar\n\nMehram Nagar, a 17th century village, lies north-east of IGI Terminal-1 in Delhi state of India.\n\nMehram Nagar village, Meharm Bazaar and Mehram Serai were established in 1639 by an eunuch Mehram Khan and till now its not developed , who was incharge of mughal harem during the reign of Shah Jahan.\n\nArchaeological Survey of India board in the village mentions several monuments, including the old darwaza (gate), mosque and serai that were built by the mughals, such as Mehram Khan (harem keeper of Jahangir), Shah Jahan and his son Aurangzeb in 1660 CE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36682525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36682525", "title": "Nakamura-za", "text": "Nakamura-za\n\n"}
{"id": "6010607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6010607", "title": "Peki'in", "text": "Peki'in\n\nPeki'in (alternatively Peqi'in) () or Buqei'a (), is a Druze town with local council status in Israel's Northern District. It is located eight kilometres east of Ma'alot-Tarshiha in the Upper Galilee. In it had a population of .\n\nAccording to tradition, the Jewish community of Peki'in has maintained a presence there since the Second Temple period. The only interruption in their presence was during the 1936–1939 Arab riots. Most Jews in Peki'in did not return to the village after the violence, which they called the Hadera diaspora. It is believed that the Zinatis are the only family who returned, and this family has dwindled to one member.\n\nObjects such as potsherds and Ossuaries of the Chalcolithic period were found in the village, and a burial site close by, making a settlement a possibility. A 2018 study conducted by scholars from Tel-Aviv University, the Israel Antiquities Authority and Harvard University had discovered that 22 out of the 600 people who were buried in Peki'in cave from the Chalcolithic Period were of both local Levantine and Persian and Zagros area ancestries, or as phrased in the paper itself: \"Ancient DNA from Chalcolithic Israel reveals the role of population mixture in cultural transformation,” the scientists concluded that the homogeneous community found in the cave could source ~57% of its ancestry from groups related to those of the local Levant Neolithic, ~26% from groups related to those of the Anatolian Neolithic, and ~17% from groups related to those of the Iran Chalcolithic.\". The scholars noted that the Zagros genetic material held \"Certain characteristics, such as genetic mutations contributing to blue eye color, were not seen in the DNA test results of earlier Levantine human remains...The blue-eyed, fair-skinned community didn't continue, but at least now researchers have an idea why. \"These findings suggest that the rise and fall of the Chalcolithic culture are probably due to demographic changes in the region\".\n\nThe village \"Baca\" in Josephus' \"The Jewish War\" is thought to be Peki'in. According to Josephus it marked the border between the kingdom of Herod Agrippa II, and Tyre.\n\nA bundle of Jewish traditions is associated with a certain Peki'in often, appearing in writing under the names \"Baka\", \"Paka\" and \"Peki'in\", which gave rise to the theory that a Jewish community lived there continuously from the Second Temple period. According to the Talmud, Rabbi Joshua ben Hananiah run a Beth Midrash, Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai and his son Rabbi Elazar ben Shimon, hid in a cave from the Romans for 13 years, and Shimon bar Yochai went on to teach at the city. However, there is evidence that the identification of Rabbinic Peki'in with Peki'in-Buqei'a is of Ottoman time, and other sites in the vicinity of Rehovot have also been suggested. The first writing where the name \"Peki'in\" undoubtedly refers to this village is from a 1765 Hebrew travel book.\n\nIn the Crusader era, Peki'in was known under the name of \"Bokehel.\" Together with several other villages in the area, it was part of the lordship of St. George, one of the largest in the Acre area. In the 12th century it was held by Henry de Milly, after his death it was inherited by his three daughters.\n\nHenry de Milly's third and youngest daughter, Agnes of Milly, married Joscelin III. In 1220 their daughter Beatrix de Courtenay and her husband Otto von Botenlauben, Count of Henneberg, sold their land, including \"one third of the fief of St. George\", and \"one third of the village of \"Bokehel\"\", to the Teutonic Knights. During this era the village was connected by a road to Castellum Regis.\n\nIncorporated into the Ottoman Empire in 1517 with the rest of Palestine, Peki'in appeared in the 1596 tax registers as being in the \"Nahiya\" of Akka of the \"Liwa\" of Safad. It had a population of 77 households and 7 bachelors who were all Muslims, in addition to 79 Jewish households. The villagers paid taxes on occasional revenues, goats and/or beehives, a press for olives or grapes, and jizya. A tax on silk spinning (\"dulab harir\"), which was levied in 1555 on six villages surrounding Mount Meron, rated highest in Peki'in. A silk industry is also attested by an account from 1602, and by several old mulberry trees in the village.\n\nJewish population was recorded at 33 households in 1525, and experienced a rise, drop, stabilization and another rise before 1596. It is said some Kohanitic families emigrated from Kafr 'Inan, possibly in the late 16th century. The Almani family probably came from the village Alma.\n\nIn 1875, French explorer Victor Guérin visited the village and described it as: \"The population at present number 600—Druzes, United Greeks, Schismatic Greeks, and a few Jewish families, who pretend to descend from the ancient inhabitants of the country. Every year in the summer several hundreds of Jews come here from Tiberias to pass the hot season. Most of these Jews came originally from Europe, and are happy in finding here the last indigenous scions of the ancient national stock. ... At Bukeiah, thanks to the two springs which issue from the hill-side, they cultivate on the slopes and almost to the bottom of the valley delicious gardens, watered by numerous streams. Here grow, on different terraces, kept up by great walls, probably ancient, fruit-trees of all kinds, such as citrons, oranges, pomegranates, figs, quinces, and mulberries. The vine flourishes marvelously, as is shown by the enormous trunks. The United Greeks have a little church, which I found shut; the Schismatic Greeks also have one which has replaced a much more ancient Christian sanctuary. Only a few cut stones and the trunk of a column remain of it.The Jews worship in a synagogue of modern date.\"\n\nIn 1881, the Palestine Exploration Fund's \"Survey of Western Palestine\" described it as \"A good village, built of stone, containing a chapel and a synagogue. There are about 100 Moslems, 100 Christians, 100 Druzes, and 100 Jews. It is situated on the slope of tine hill, with gardens, figs, olives, pomegranates, and arable land.\n\nThere is a good spring in the village, and two springs near. This is the only place where Jews cultivate the ground. They say it has descended to them from their fathers from time immemorial.\"\n\nA population list from about 1887 showed \"el Bukei’a\" to have about 950 inhabitants; Druse, Jews and Christians.\n\nIn a census conducted in 1922 by the British Mandate authorities, Al Buqai'a had a population of 652 residents; 70 Muslims, 63 Jews, 215 Christians and 304 Druse. Of the Christians, 167 were Orthodox and 48 were Greek Catholic (Melchite). In the 1931 census, El Buqei'a had a total population of 799; 71 Muslims, 52 Jews, 264 Christians and 412 Druse, in a total of 190 houses.\n\nIn 1936, Arab riots forced the Jews of Peki'in to leave their homes for safer parts of the country; only a few of them later returned.\n\nIn the 1945 statistics, the population was 990; 100 Muslims, 370 Christians, and 520 \"others\", that is Druse, owning 10,276 dunams, while Jews owned 189 dunams, and 3,731 was publicly owned, according to an official land and population survey. Of this, 1,598 were allocated for plantations and irrigable land, 3,424 for cereals, while 40 dunams were classified as built-up areas.\n\nIn July 2006, Peki'in was hit by Katyusha rockets launched by Hezbollah, causing significant damage to homes and orchards.\n\nIn October 2007, riots broke out after the installation of a cellular antenna due to concerns that such antennas have been linked to an increase in cancer. Riot police fired bullets and gas grenades, which further angered the residents, who burned down the house of a Jewish family living in the village. In December 2007, the last Jewish family left the town after their car was torched. Only Margalit Zinati, a descendant of a Mustarabim family, has remained there to keep alive the memory of the town's vanishing Jewish heritage.\n\nIn 2011, the Israeli government approved an aid program of NIS 680 million ($184M) for housing, education and tourism upgrades in Peki'in and other Druze communities in northern Israel.\n\nThe Druze Youth Movement in Israel, a movement with 19 branches around the country and a membership of 12,000, has its headquarters in Peki'in. The founder of the movement is Hamad Amar, an Israeli Druze member of the Knesset from Shfaram, who established it to pass on Druze heritage to the younger generation while developing a sense of national Israeli pride.\n\nAccording to Galib Kheir, head of the town's tourism department, about 60,000 tourists visit Peki'in each year. The tourist trade supports local restaurants and specialty shops. The town also has a hotel and youth hostel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1219110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1219110", "title": "Peter Andreas Munch", "text": "Peter Andreas Munch\n\nPeter Andreas Munch (15 December 1810 – 25 May 1863), usually known as P. A. Munch, was a Norwegian historian, known for his work on the medieval history of Norway. Munch’s scholarship included Norwegian archaeology, geography, ethnography, linguistics, and jurisprudence. He was also noted for his Norse legendary saga translations.\n\nPeter Andreas Munch was born in Christiania (now Oslo). He was the son of Edvard Storm Munch and Johanne Sophie Hofgaard. Munch was the uncle of the famous painter Edvard Munch.\n\nMunch grew up at Gjerpen parsonage, where his father was parish priest of the Church of Norway. He was schooled in the city of Skien. He attended the Royal Frederick University. Munch first studied law and took his state examination in 1834, but then turned to historical and philological studies.\n\nMunch's first great achievement, with Rudolph Keyser, was their three volumes of \"Norges Gamle Love\" (Norway's old laws), edited after a two-year research visit to Copenhagen. In 1837, he became lecturer in history at the University of Oslo and in 1841 became a professor of history. In 1857, after producing numerous publications, he received a large grant for archives research in Rome and lived there from 1859 to 1861. Munch served as Norway's national archivist from 1861 to 1863. He was one of the first non-Catholics to be allowed into the archives of the Vatican. He took extensive notes from the volumes of papal letters, and sometimes drew accurate facsimiles of the texts. His research there was useful in his main work, \"Det norske Folks Historie\" (\"History of the Norwegian People\"), in eight volumes, and he sent his notes home to the Royal Archives in Christiania. Among the theories he is remembered for is the theory on immigration to Norway, in which he developed work done by Rudolf Keyser. On a trip back to Rome to fetch his family, who had remained there for a while, he died from a stroke, and was buried in the Protestant cemetery in Rome.\n\nIn this work, Munch translated the 3rd Chronicle from a Codex transferred to the British Museum (formerly owned in 1620 by one Sir Robert Cotton). The manuscript is the only known copy of this Codex (and thought to be the only one). In any event, Munch translated runic characters and added historical notes to lend light upon the writings, and using previous works on the history of Scottish and Icelandic Isles to aid in the presentation of the translated material.\n\nPeter Munch had racial thoughts on certain peoples, e.g. Finns and Hungarians. He despised Finns and claimed that they cannot have an independent country because of their low state of civilization, as he claimed. Peter Munch claimed in his article on Finnish nationality (\"Om Finlands Nationalitet og dens Forhold til den svenske\") in 1855, that Finns and Hungarians must have a human race of their own.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4829036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4829036", "title": "Problem of mental causation", "text": "Problem of mental causation\n\nThe problem of mental causation is a conceptual issue in the philosophy of mind. That problem, in short, is how to account for the common-sense idea that intentional thoughts or intentional mental states are causes of intentional actions. The problem divides into several distinct sub-problems, including the problem of causal exclusion, the problem of anomalism, and the problem of externalism. However, the sub-problem which has attracted most attention in the philosophical literature is arguably the exclusion problem.\n\nThe basic problem of mental causation is an intuitive one: on the face of it, it seems that mental events cause physical events (and vice versa), but how can mental events have any causal effect on physical events? Suppose, for example, some person, John, orders dessert after dinner. It seems that at least one cause for such a physical, behavioral event is that John desired to have dessert and believed that by ordering dessert he would be able to soon have dessert. But, how can such mental events as beliefs and desires cause John's mouth to move in such a way that he orders dessert?\n\nWhat follows is a summary of the causal exclusion problem in its simplest form, and it is merely one of several possible formulations.\n\nTo the extent that we do \"not\" have to go outside human physiology in order to trace the causal antecedents of any bodily movement, intentional action can be fully causally explained by the existence of these physiological antecedents \"alone\". No mention of mental states need enter into the explanation. This troubles philosophers because intuitively it seems that mental states are crucial in causing a person to act (for example, their beliefs and desires). But, given that physiological facts are sufficient to account for action, mental states appear to be superfluous; they are at risk of being causally and explanatorily irrelevant with respect to human action .\n\nMany philosophers consider this apparent irrelevance to be a highly counter-intuitive and undesirable position to take. It ultimately leads to epiphenomenalism—the view that mental events or states are causally irrelevant, they are merely after effects that play no role in any causal chains whatsoever. Thomas Huxley famously noted that epiphenomenalism treats mental states like the steam coming off a train: it plays no causal role in the train's moving forward, it is merely an \"emergent property\" of the actual causation occurring in the engine .\n\nAnother problem with mental causation is that mental events seem anomalous in the sense that there are no scientific laws that mental states can figure into without having exceptions. There are no \"strict\" laws, and mental events must factor into strict laws in order to fit respectably into the causal order described by current science [see ].\n\nIn short, one response has been to deny that psychological laws involving mental states require strict, exceptionless laws. Jerry Fodor argues that non-basic (or \"special\") sciences do not in fact require strict laws . In current practice, special sciences (for example, biology and chemistry) have \"ceteris paribus\" laws (or laws with \"all else being equal\" clauses), according to which there are exceptions. However, only in the basic sciences (physics) are there strict, exceptionless laws. Thus, although mental states are anomalous, they can still figure into scientifically respectable laws of psychology.\n\nIn the latter half of the twentieth century externalism about meaning became espoused by many philosophers. Externalism is roughly the view that certain parts of an individual's environment play a crucial role in the meaning of at least some of an individual's words [see and ]. A thesis about meaning affects the mind insofar as our thoughts are \"about\" things in the world. A common view in the philosophy of mind is that at least certain mental states have intentional content in this sense. For example, one's belief that water is wet has the semantic content of \"water is wet\". The thought is about water and the fact that it is wet. But, if externalism is true—if some of the contents of one's thoughts are constituted at least in part by factors external to one's mind—then there is yet another difficulty in explaining how mental states can cause physical states ].\n\nCausal exclusion is only a problem for mental causation if you are an advocate for physicalism. I will begin with Jaegwon Kim’s causal exclusion argument which states that if all physical effects have sufficient physical causes, and no physical effects are caused twice over by distinct physical and mental causes, there cannot be any irreducible mental causes (Kallestrup 2006). First of all, the antecedent of the causal exclusion argument is the definition of physicalism. Kim states that if all physical effects have sufficient physical causes. This statement alone negates dualism, idealism and mental causation. Whereas, it is redundant to state the remaining of the causal exclusion argument because if all physical effects have sufficient physical causes, then no physical effects would be caused twice over by any substance other than physical. Also, if all physical effects have sufficient physical causes, then there clearly would not be any reducible or irreducible mental causes. Secondly, if a person does not support physicalism, then they are not going to support the view that all physical effects have sufficient physical causes. Lastly, physicalism is the hypothesis that the mind is the same as the brain and/or the mental supervenes on the physical, yet it is not fact. Therefore, to use the hypothesis of causal exclusion as evidence to counter mental causation is no different than using \"the popper's three world formulation\" or \"psychological nativism\" (as shown in this section) to support mental causation.\n\nIt is an arduous task to prove mental causation within the realms of a physical body. Yet, every human has witnessed mental causation within the human body. Let us view the advent of crying. Crying is a physical effect coupled with either a physical cause or a mental (emotional) cause. There are three types of tears: basal tears, reflex tears, and emotional tears (Hoyt 2008). Basal tears keep our eyes from drying out, reflex tears are in response to eye irritants (physical causation), and emotional tears are a result of mental causation such as sadness, joy, etc (Hoyt 2008). I am going to focus on the latter, emotional tears. Once sadness is registered in the cerebrum, the endocrine system releases hormones to the ocular area, and tears are formed (Hoyt 2008). Crying due to one's mental state is an event that is common across all cultures and demographics. Whether we cry due to sadness or joy, these are all events that have their origination in mental causation. It would be inhuman to claim otherwise.\n\nHow Emotions are Made: The Secret Life of the Brain by Lisa Feldman Barrett for a rigorous discussion. One’s crying is not planned, unless one is an actor, then we are able to tap into the mechanism that causes tears to flow. Otherwise it just happens outside of out awareness of causing it by thinking. The brain has patterns of neurons that once activated generate physiologic responses that happens up to 10 seconds before we are aware. (Koch, Christof. 2012. “How Physics and Neuroscience Dictate Your “Free” Will”. Scientific American: April 12.) and many others.\n\nSome have claimed that while the mental and the physical are quite different things, they can nonetheless causally interact with one another, a view going back to Descartes [, especially meditations II & VI]. This view is known as \"interactionist dualism\". The major problem that interactionist dualism faces is that of explicating a satisfactory notion of causation according to which non-spatial events, such as mental events, can causally interact with physical events. According to the current mainstream scientific world-view, the physical realm is \"causally closed\", in that causal relationships only hold among physical events in the physical realm. Given these types of considerations, some argue that it is appropriate to say that the main assumptions in interactionist dualism generate the problem of mental causation rather than solve it (see .\n\nThe other major option is to assert that mental events are either (at least contingently) identical to physical events, or supervene on physical events. Views that fall under this general heading are called physicalism or materialism. But, such views require a particular theory to explain how mental events are physical in nature. One such theory is behaviorism. Behaviorists, in general, argue that mental events are merely dispositions to behave in certain ways. Another theory is the identity theory, according to which mental events are (either type- or token-) identical to physical events. A more recent view, known as functionalism, claims that mental events are individuated (or constituted by) the causal role they play. As such, mental events would fit directly into the causal realm, as they are simply certain causal (or functional) roles. Finally, there is eliminative materialism, which simply denies that there are any such mental events; thus, there is really no problem of mental causation at all.\n\nRelated to dualism above, a more general and somewhat differently posed approach to mental causation is provided by Karl Popper's three worlds. Popper split the world into three categories:\n\nWorld 3 includes physical theory as a particular case. But World 3 is a creation of the human imagination, and such acts of imagination are a part of World 2. Accordingly, one could argue that the physical notion of causality is a child of the imagination, and although causation has its successes in describing World 1, it may not apply to World 2 or World 3. The subjective aspects of theories contained in World 3 are not readily framed within the third-person perspective of science used to explain World 1.\n\nFrom this perspective, it is hubris to suppose that the methods successful in describing World 1, in particular to suppose the notions of \"cause\" and \"effect\", invented by World 2 in its creation of the theory of World 3 used to explain World 1, have direct application to Worlds 2 and 3 themselves, and control mental agency.\n\nA still different approach to mental causation is based upon the philosophies of Kant, Chomsky and Pinker. These philosophers stress the impact of built-in aspects of mind, studied in the field of psychological nativism.\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) pointed out that we all shape our experience of things through the filter of our mind, a view sometimes called epistemological solipsism. The mind shapes that experience, and among other things, Kant believed the concepts of \"space\" and \"time\" were programmed into the human brain, as was the notion of \"cause\" and \"effect\". We never have \"direct\" experience of things, the \"noumenal\" world, and what we do experience is the \"phenomenal\" world as conveyed by our senses, this conveyance processed by the machinery of the mind and nervous system. Kant focused upon this processing. Kant believed in \"a priori\" knowledge arrived at independent of experience, so-called \"synthetic\" \"a priori\" knowledge. In particular, he thought that by introspection some aspects of the filtering mechanisms of the mind/brain/nervous system could be discovered. The following observations summarize Kant's views upon the subject-object problem, called Kant's Copernican revolution: \n\nAlthough Kant has posed the issue of built-in aspects of mind, the particulars that depend upon the science of his day have become outmoded. A more recent approach to these limitations is proposed by Noam Chomsky and Steven Pinker. Like Kant, Noam Chomsky raised the issue of the mind's inherent programming. Chomsky selected as a particular example the acquiring of language by children. Of course, language is indispensable in the formulation and communication of our perceptions of the objective world:\nChomsky marshaled evidence that a child's rapid mastery of the complexity of language indicated an innate ability programmed into the development of the human mind from birth that could not be explained by the \"blank slate\" view of the infant mind. Rather, the mind has a built-in propensity to process symbolic representations. The origins of this ability were sought by Steven Pinker in a Darwinian struggle that established the survival value of the ability to communicate. According to Pinker, Charles Darwin himself \"concluded that language ability is 'an instinctive tendency to acquire an art', a design that is not peculiar to humans but seen in other species such as song-learning birds.\" This observation is strongly supported by research on crows.\n\nThis work can be taken to suggest that although a physical theory is an intermediary between our observations and our notions of connections between them, it is an elaborate mental construction that is a meld of the way the mind works and objective observations. Although a physical theory is used to determine connections about objective events, the specific form of the theoretical construct is a product of subjective activities, and this particular form may well involve the workings of the brain. Perhaps some aspects of the universe's operation can be expressed in terms of mental constructs, but this process is analogous with the expression of a computer algorithm in terms of assembly language instructions peculiar to a particular computer, a translation by a compiler of the general statement of an algorithm into specific tiny steps that particular computer can handle.\n\nFrom this standpoint, as with the philosophy of Kant, the first-person active actions of mental causation may involve innate workings of the brain itself.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51146112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51146112", "title": "Radoslav Lopašić", "text": "Radoslav Lopašić\n\nRadoslav Lopašić (1830—1893) was a Croatian historian and member of the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\nLopašić was born on 20 May 1830 in Karlovac, Austrian Empire (modern-day Croatia). His father was Mirko Lopašić, at that time a mayor and a city judge, while his mother was Magdalena nee Dobrilović. After being educated in Karlovac and Zagreb, Lopašić began his career in city administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "150135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150135", "title": "Spontaneous generation", "text": "Spontaneous generation\n\nSpontaneous generation refers to an obsolete body of thought on the ordinary formation of living organisms without descent from similar organisms. The theory of spontaneous generation held that living creatures could arise from nonliving matter and that such processes were commonplace and regular. For instance, it was hypothesized that certain forms such as fleas could arise from inanimate matter such as dust, or that maggots could arise from dead flesh. A variant idea was that of equivocal generation, in which species such as tapeworms arose from unrelated living organisms, now understood to be their hosts. The idea of univocal generation, by contrast, refers to effectively exclusive reproduction from genetically related parent(s), generally of the same species.\n\nThe doctrine of spontaneous generation was coherently synthesized by Aristotle, who compiled and expanded the work of earlier natural philosophers and the various ancient explanations for the appearance of organisms, and was taken as scientific fact for two millennia. Though challenged in the 17th and 18th centuries by the experiments of Francesco Redi and Lazzaro Spallanzani, spontaneous generation was not disproved until the work of Louis Pasteur and John Tyndall in the mid-19th century.\n\nRejection of spontaneous generation is no longer controversial among biologists. By the middle of the 19th century, experiments of Louis Pasteur and others refuted the traditional theory of spontaneous generation and supported biogenesis.\n\nSpontaneous generation refers both to the supposed processes by which different types of life might repeatedly emerge from specific sources other than seeds, eggs, or parents, and also to theoretical principles presented in support of any such phenomena. Crucial to this doctrine are the ideas that life comes from non-life and that no causal agent, such as a parent, is needed. The hypothetical processes by which life routinely emerges from nonliving matter on a time scale of minutes, weeks, or years (e.g. in the supposed seasonal generation of mice and other animals from the mud of the Nile) are sometimes referred to as \"abiogenesis\". Such ideas have no operative principles in common with the modern hypothesis of abiogenesis, which asserts that life emerged in the early ages of the planet, over a time span of at least millions of years, and subsequently diversified, and that there is no evidence of any subsequent repetition of the event.\n\nThe term \"equivocal generation\", sometimes known as \"heterogenesis\" or \"xenogenesis\", describes the supposed process by which one form of life arises from a different, unrelated form, such as tapeworms from the bodies of their hosts.\n\nIn the years following Louis Pasteur's 1859 experiment, the term \"spontaneous generation\" fell increasingly out of favor. Experimentalists used a variety of terms for the study of the origin of life from nonliving materials. \"Heterogenesis\" was applied to the generation of living things from once-living organic matter (such as boiled broths), and Henry Charlton Bastian proposed the term \"archebiosis\" for life originating from inorganic materials. Disliking the randomness and unpredictability implied by the term \"'spontaneous' generation,\" in 1870 Bastian coined the term \"biogenesis\" to refer to the formation of life from nonliving matter. Soon thereafter, however, English biologist Thomas Henry Huxley proposed the term \"abiogenesis\" to refer to this same process and adopted \"biogenesis\" for the process by which life arises from existing life; it is this latter set of definitions that became dominant.\n\nActive in the 6th and 5th centuries BCE, early Greek philosophers, called \"physiologoi\" in antiquity (Greek: φυσιολόγοι; in English, physical or natural philosophers), attempted to give natural explanations of phenomena that had previously been ascribed to the agency of the gods. The \"physiologoi\" sought the material principle or \"arche\" (Greek: ἀρχή) of things, emphasizing the rational unity of the external world and rejecting theological or mythological explanations. \n\nAnaximander, who believed that all things arose from the elemental nature of the universe, the \"apeiron\" (ἄπειρον) or the \"unbounded\" or \"infinite,\" was likely the first western thinker to propose that life developed spontaneously from nonliving matter. The primal chaos of the \"apeiron,\" eternally in motion, served as a substratum in which elemental opposites (e.g., wet and dry, hot and cold) generated and shaped the many and varied things in the world. According to Hippolytus of Rome in the third century CE, Anaximander claimed that fish or fish-like creatures were first formed in the \"wet\" when acted on by the heat of the sun and that these aquatic creatures gave rise to human beings. Censorinus, writing in the 3rd century, reports:\n\nAnaximenes, a pupil of Anaximander, thought that air was the element that imparted life and endowed creatures with motion and thought. He proposed that plants and animals, including human beings, arose from a primordial terrestrial slime, a mixture of earth and water, combined with the sun's heat. Anaxagoras, too, believed that life emerged from a terrestrial slime. However, he held that the seeds of plants existed in the air from the beginning, and those of animals in the aether. Xenophanes traced the origin of man back to the transitional period between the fluid stage of the earth and the formation of land, under the influence of the sun.\n\nIn what has occasionally been seen as a prefiguration of a concept of natural selection, Empedocles accepted the spontaneous generation of life but held that different forms, made up of differing combinations of parts, spontaneously arose as though by trial and error: successful combinations formed the species we now see, whereas unsuccessful forms failed to reproduce.\n\nIn his biological works, the natural philosopher Aristotle theorized extensively the reproduction of various animals, whether by sexual, parthenogenetic, or spontaneous generation. In accordance with his fundamental theory of hylomorphism, which held that every physical entity was a compound of matter and form, Aristotle's basic theory of sexual reproduction contended that the male's seed imposed form, the set of characteristics passed down to offspring on the \"matter\" (menstrual blood) supplied by the female. Thus female matter is the material cause of generation—it supplies the matter that will constitute the offspring—while the male semen is the efficient cause, the factor that instigates and delineates the thing's existence. Yet, as proposed in the \"History of Animals\", many creatures form not through sexual processes but by spontaneous generation:\n\nAccording to this theory, living things may come forth from nonliving things in a manner roughly analogous to the \"enformation of the female matter by the agency of the male seed\" seen in sexual reproduction. Nonliving materials, like the seminal fluid present in sexual generation, contain \"pneuma\" (πνεῦμα, \"breath\"), or \"vital heat\". According to Aristotle, pneuma had more \"heat\" than regular air did, and this heat endowed the substance with certain vital properties:\nAristotle drew an analogy between the \"foamy matter\" (τὸ ἀφρῶδες) found in nature and the \"seed\" of an animal, which he viewed as being a kind of foam itself (composed, as it was, from a mixture of water and pneuma). For Aristotle, the generative materials of male and female animals (semen and menstrual blood) were essentially refinements, made by male and female bodies according to their respective proportions of heat, of ingested food, which was, in turn, a byproduct of the elements earth and water. Thus any creature, whether generated sexually from parents or spontaneously through the interaction of vital heat and elemental matter, was dependent on the proportions of pneuma and the various elements which Aristotle believed comprised all things. While Aristotle recognized that many living things emerged from putrefying matter, he pointed out that the putrefaction was not the source of life, but the byproduct of the action of the \"sweet\" element of water.\n\nWith varying degrees of observational confidence, Aristotle theorized the spontaneous generation of a range of creatures from different sorts of inanimate matter. The testaceans (a genus which for Aristotle included bivalves and snails), for instance, were characterized by spontaneous generation from mud, but differed based upon the precise material they grew in—for example, clams and scallops in sand, oysters in slime, and the barnacle and the limpet in the hollows of rocks.\n\nVitruvius, a Roman architect and writer of the 1st century BCE, advised that libraries be placed facing eastwards to benefit from morning light, but not towards the south or the west as those winds generate bookworms.\n\nAristotle claimed that eels were lacking in sex and lacking milt, spawn and the passages for either. Rather, he asserted eels emerged from earthworms. Later authors dissented. Pliny the Elder did not argue against the anatomic limits of eels, but stated that eels reproduce by budding, scraping themselves against rocks, liberating particles that become eels. Athenaeus described eels as entwining and discharging a fluid which would settle on mud and generate life. On the other hand, Athenaeus also dissented towards spontaneous generation, claiming that a variety of anchovy did not generate from roe, as Aristotle stated, but rather, from sea foam.\n\nAs the dominant view of philosophers and thinkers continued to be in favour of spontaneous generation, some Christian theologians accepted the view. Augustine of Hippo discussed spontaneous generation in \"The City of God\" and \"The Literal Meaning of Genesis\", citing Biblical passages such as \"Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life\" () as decrees that would enable ongoing creation.\n\nFrom the fall of the Roman Empire in 5th century to the East-West Schism in 1054, the influence of Greek science declined, although spontaneous generation generally went unchallenged. New descriptions were made. Of the numerous beliefs, some had doctrinal implications outside of the Book of Genesis. For example, the idea that a variety of bird known as the \"barnacle goose\" emerged from a crustacean known as the \"goose barnacle\", had implications on the practice of fasting during Lent. In 1188, Gerald of Wales, after having traveled in Ireland, argued that the \"unnatural\" generation of barnacle geese was evidence for the virgin birth. Where the practice of fasting during Lent allowed fish, but prohibited fowl, the idea that the goose was in fact a fish suggested that its consumption be permitted during Lent. The practice was eventually prohibited by decree of Pope Innocent III in 1215.\n\nAristotle, in Arabic translation, was reintroduced to Western Europe. During the 13th century, Aristotle reached his greatest acceptance. With the availability of Latin translations Saint Albertus Magnus and his student, Saint Thomas Aquinas, raised Aristotelianism to its greatest prominence. Albert wrote a paraphrase of Aristotle, \"De causis et processu universitatis\", in which he removed some and incorporated other commentaries by Arabic scholars. The influential writings of Aquinas, on both the physical and metaphysical, are predominantly Aristotelian, but show numerous other influences.\n\nSpontaneous generation is discussed as a fact in literature well into the Renaissance. Where, in passing, Shakespeare discusses snakes and crocodiles forming from the mud of the Nile (), Izaak Walton again raises the question of the origin of eels \"as rats and mice, and many other living creatures, are bred in Egypt, by the sun's heat when it shines upon the overflowing of the river...\". While the ancient question of the origin of eels remained unanswered and the additional idea that eels reproduced from corruption of age was mentioned, the spontaneous generation of rats and mice engendered no debate.\n\nThe Dutch biologist and microscopist Jan Swammerdam (1637 - 1680) rejected the concept that one animal could arise from another or from putrification by chance because it was impious and like others found the concept of spontaneous generation irreligious, and he associated it with atheism and Godless opinion.\n\nJan Baptist van Helmont (1580–1644) used experimental techniques, such as growing a willow for five years and showing it increased mass while the soil showed a trivial decrease in comparison. As the process of photosynthesis was not understood, he attributed the increase of mass to the absorption of water. His notes also describe a recipe for mice (a piece of soiled cloth plus wheat for 21 days) and scorpions (basil, placed between two bricks and left in sunlight). His notes suggest he may even have done these things.\n\nWhere Aristotle held that the embryo was formed by a coagulation in the uterus, William Harvey (1578 – 1657) by way of dissection of deer, showed that there was no visible embryo during the first month. Although his work predated the microscope, this led him to suggest that life came from invisible eggs. In the frontispiece of his book \"Exercitationes de Generatione Animalium\" (\"Essays on the Generation of Animals\"), he made an expression of biogenesis: \"omnia ex ovo\" (everything from eggs).\n\nThe ancient beliefs were subjected to testing. In 1668, Francesco Redi challenged the idea that maggots arose spontaneously from rotting meat. In the first major experiment to challenge spontaneous generation, he placed meat in a variety of sealed, open, and partially covered containers. Realizing that the sealed containers were deprived of air, he used \"fine Naples veil\", and observed no worm on the meat, but they appeared on the cloth. Redi used his experiments to support the preexistence theory put forth by the Church at that time, which maintained that living things originated from parents. In scientific circles Redi's work very soon had great influence, as evidenced in a letter from John Ray in 1671 to members of the Royal Society of London:\n\nPier Antonio Micheli, around 1729, observed that when fungal spores were placed on slices of melon the same type of fungi were produced that the spores came from, and from this observation he noted that fungi did not arise from spontaneous generation.\n\nIn 1745, John Needham performed a series of experiments on boiled broths. Believing that boiling would kill all living things, he showed that when sealed right after boiling, the broths would cloud, allowing the belief in spontaneous generation to persist. His studies were rigorously scrutinized by his peers and many of them agreed.\n\nLazzaro Spallanzani modified the Needham experiment in 1768, attempting to exclude the possibility of introducing a contaminating factor between boiling and sealing. His technique involved boiling the broth in a sealed container with the air partially evacuated to prevent explosions. Although he did not see growth, the exclusion of air left the question of whether air was an essential factor in spontaneous generation. However, by that time there was already widespread scepticism among major scientists, to the principle of spontaneous generation. Observation was increasingly demonstrating that whenever there was sufficiently careful investigation of mechanisms of biological reproduction, it was plain that processes involved basing of new structures on existing complex structures, rather from chaotic muds or dead materials. Joseph Priestley, after he had fled to America and not long before his death, wrote a letter that was read to the American Philosophical Society in 1803. It said in part:\n\nIn 1837, Charles Cagniard de la Tour, a physicist, and Theodor Schwann, one of the founders of cell theory, published their independent discovery of yeast in alcoholic fermentation. They used the microscope to examine foam left over from the process of brewing beer. Where Leeuwenhoek described \"small spheroid globules\", they observed yeast cells undergo cell division. Fermentation would not occur when sterile air or pure oxygen was introduced if yeast were not present. This suggested that airborne microorganisms, not spontaneous generation, was responsible.\n\nHowever, although the idea of spontaneous generation had been in decline for nearly a century, its supporters did not abandon it all at once. As James Rennie wrote:\n\nLouis Pasteur's 1859 experiment is widely seen as having settled the question of spontaneous generation. He boiled a meat broth in a flask that had a long neck that curved downward, like that of a goose or swan. The idea was that the bend in the neck prevented falling particles from reaching the broth, while still allowing the free flow of air. The flask remained free of growth for an extended period. When the flask was turned so that particles could fall down the bends, the broth quickly became clouded. However, minority objections were persistent and not always unreasonable, given that the experimental difficulties were far more challenging than the popular accounts suggest. The investigations of John Tyndall, a correspondent of Pasteur and a great admirer of Pasteur's work, were decisive in disproving spontaneous generation and dealing with lingering issues. Still, even Tyndall encountered difficulties in dealing with the effects of microbial spores, which were not well understood in his day. Like Pasteur, he boiled his cultures to sterilize them, and some types of bacterial spores can survive boiling. The autoclave, which eventually came into universal application in medical practice and microbiology to sterilise equipment, was not an instrument that had come into use at the time of Tyndall's experiments, let alone those of Pasteur.\n\nIn 1862, the French Academy of Sciences paid a special attention to the issue and established a prize \"to him who by well-conducted experiments throws new light on the question of the so-called spontaneous generation\" and appointed a commission to judge the winner.\n\n"}
{"id": "27875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27875", "title": "Stephen Jay Gould", "text": "Stephen Jay Gould\n\nStephen Jay Gould (; September 10, 1941 – May 20, 2002) was an American paleontologist, evolutionary biologist, and historian of science. He was also one of the most influential and widely read authors of popular science of his generation. Gould spent most of his career teaching at Harvard University and working at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. In 1996, Gould was hired as the Vincent Astor Visiting Research Professor of Biology at New York University, where he divided his time teaching there and at Harvard.\n\nGould's most significant contribution to evolutionary biology was the theory of punctuated equilibrium, which he developed with Niles Eldredge in 1972. The theory proposes that most evolution is characterized by long periods of evolutionary stability, which is infrequently punctuated by swift periods of branching speciation. The theory was contrasted against phyletic gradualism, the popular idea that evolutionary change is marked by a pattern of smooth and continuous change in the fossil record.\n\nMost of Gould's empirical research was based on the land snail genera \"Poecilozonites\" and \"Cerion\". He also made important contributions to evolutionary developmental biology, receiving broad professional recognition for his book \"Ontogeny and Phylogeny\". In evolutionary theory he opposed strict selectionism, sociobiology as applied to humans, and evolutionary psychology. He campaigned against creationism and proposed that science and religion should be considered two distinct fields (or \"non-overlapping magisteria\") whose authorities do not overlap.\n\nGould was known by the general public mainly for his 300 popular essays in \"Natural History\" magazine, and his numerous books written for both the specialist and non-specialist.\nIn April 2000, the US Library of Congress named him a \"Living Legend\".\n\nStephen Jay Gould was born in Queens, New York on September 10, 1941. His father Leonard was a court stenographer and a World War II veteran in the United States Navy. His mother Eleanor was an artist, whose parents were Jewish immigrants living and working in the city's Garment District. Gould and his younger brother Peter were raised in Bayside, a middle class neighborhood in the northeastern section of Queens. He attended elementary school and graduated from Jamaica High School.\n\nWhen Gould was five years old his father took him to the Hall of Dinosaurs in the American Museum of Natural History, where he first encountered \"Tyrannosaurus rex\". \"I had no idea there were such things—I was awestruck,\" Gould once recalled. It was in that moment that he decided to become a paleontologist.\n\nRaised in a secular Jewish home, Gould did not formally practice religion and preferred to be called an agnostic. When asked directly if he was an agnostic in \"Skeptic\" magazine, he responded:\n\nThough he \"had been brought up by a Marxist father\" he stated that his father's politics were \"very different\" from his own. In describing his own political views, he has said they \"tend to the left of center.\" According to Gould the most influential political books he read were C. Wright Mills' \"The Power Elite\" and the political writings of Noam Chomsky.\n\nWhile attending Antioch College in the early 1960s, Gould was active in the civil rights movement and often campaigned for social justice. When he attended the University of Leeds as a visiting undergraduate, he organized weekly demonstrations outside a Bradford dance hall which refused to admit black people. Gould continued these demonstrations until the policy was revoked. Throughout his career and writings, he spoke out against cultural oppression in all its forms, especially what he saw as the pseudoscience used in the service of racism and sexism.\n\nInterspersed throughout his scientific essays for \"Natural History\" magazine, Gould frequently referred to his nonscientific interests and pastimes. As a boy he collected baseball cards and remained an avid New York Yankees fan throughout his life. As an adult he was fond of science fiction movies, but often lamented their poor storytelling and presentation of science. His other interests included singing baritone in the Boston Cecilia, and he was a great aficionado of Gilbert and Sullivan operas. He collected rare antiquarian books, possessed an enthusiasm for architecture, and delighted in city walks. He often traveled to Europe, and spoke French, German, Russian, and Italian. He sometimes alluded ruefully to his tendency to put on weight.\n\nGould married artist Deborah Lee on October 3, 1965. Gould met Lee while they were students together at Antioch College. They had two sons, Jesse and Ethan, and were married for 30 years. His second marriage in 1995 was to artist and sculptor Rhonda Roland Shearer.\n\nIn July 1982 Gould was diagnosed with peritoneal mesothelioma, a deadly form of cancer affecting the abdominal lining (the peritoneum). This cancer is frequently found in people who have ingested or inhaled asbestos fibers, a mineral which was used in the construction of Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology. After a difficult two-year recovery, Gould published a column for \"Discover\" magazine titled \"The Median Isn't the Message\", which discusses his reaction to discovering that, \"mesothelioma is incurable, with a median mortality of only eight months after discovery.\" In his essay he describes the actual significance behind this fact, and his relief upon recognizing that statistical averages are useful abstractions, and by themselves do not encompass \"our actual world of variation, shadings, and continua.\"\n\nThe median is the halfway point, which means that 50% of people will die before eight months. However the other half may live significantly longer depending on the nature of the distribution. Gould needed to determine where his individual characteristics placed him within this range. Given that his cancer was detected early, he was young, optimistic, and had the best treatments available, he reasoned that he likely fell within the favorable tail of a right skewed distribution. After an experimental treatment of radiation, chemotherapy, and surgery, Gould made a full recovery, and his column became a source of comfort for many cancer patients.\n\nGould was also an advocate of medical cannabis. When undergoing his cancer treatments he smoked marijuana to help alleviate the long periods of intense and uncontrollable nausea. According to Gould, the drug had a \"most important effect\" on his eventual recovery. He later complained that he could not understand how \"any humane person would withhold such a beneficial substance from people in such great need simply because others use it for different purposes.\" On August 5, 1998, Gould's testimony assisted in the successful lawsuit of HIV activist Jim Wakeford, who sued the Government of Canada for the right to cultivate, possess, and use marijuana for medical purposes.\n\nIn February 2002, a lesion was found on Gould's chest radiograph, and oncologists diagnosed him with stage IV cancer. Gould died 10 weeks later on May 20, 2002 from a metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung, an aggressive form of cancer which had already spread to his brain, liver, and spleen. This cancer was unrelated to his previous bout of abdominal cancer in 1982. He died in his home \"in a bed set up in the library of his SoHo loft, surrounded by his wife Rhonda, his mother Eleanor, and the many books he loved.\"\n\nGould began his higher education at Antioch College, graduating with a double major in geology and philosophy in 1963. During this time, he also studied at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom. After completing graduate work at Columbia University in 1967 under the guidance of Norman Newell, he was immediately hired by Harvard University where he worked until the end of his life (1967–2002). In 1973, Harvard promoted him to professor of geology and curator of invertebrate paleontology at the institution's Museum of Comparative Zoology.\n\nIn 1982 Harvard awarded him the title of Alexander Agassiz Professor of Zoology. The following year, 1983, he was awarded a fellowship at the American Association for the Advancement of Science, where he later served as president (1999–2001). The AAAS news release cited his \"numerous contributions to both scientific progress and the public understanding of science.\" He also served as president of the Paleontological Society (1985–1986) and of the Society for the Study of Evolution (1990–1991).\n\nIn 1989 Gould was elected into the body of the National Academy of Sciences. Through 1996–2002 Gould was Vincent Astor Visiting Research Professor of Biology at New York University. In 2001, the American Humanist Association named him the Humanist of the Year for his lifetime of work. In 2008, he was posthumously awarded the Darwin-Wallace Medal, along with 12 other recipients. (Until 2008, this medal had been awarded every 50 years by the Linnean Society of London.)\n\nEarly in his career, Gould and his colleague Niles Eldredge developed the theory of punctuated equilibrium, which describes the rate of speciation in the fossil record as occurring relatively rapidly, which then alternates to a longer period of evolutionary stability. It was Gould who coined the term \"punctuated equilibria\" though the theory was originally presented by Eldredge in his doctoral dissertation on Devonian trilobites and his article published the previous year on allopatric speciation.\n\nAccording to Gould, punctuated equilibrium revised a key pillar \"in the central logic of Darwinian theory.\" Some evolutionary biologists have argued that while punctuated equilibrium was \"of great interest to biology generally,\" it merely modified neo-Darwinism in a manner that was fully compatible with what had been known before.\nOther biologists emphasize the theoretical novelty of punctuated equilibrium, and argued that evolutionary stasis had been \"unexpected by most evolutionary biologists\" and \"had a major impact on paleontology and evolutionary biology.\"\n\nComparisons were made to George Gaylord Simpson's work in \"Tempo and Mode in Evolution\" (1941). However Simpson describes the paleontological record as being characterized by predominantly gradual change (which he termed horotely), though he also documented examples of slow (bradytely), and rapid (tachytely) rates of evolution. Punctuated equilibrium and phyletic gradualism are not mutually exclusive, and examples of each have been documented in different lineages. The debate between these two models is often misunderstood by non-scientists, and according to Richard Dawkins has been oversold by the media.\nSome critics jokingly referred to the theory of punctuated equilibrium as \"evolution by jerks\",\nwhich prompted Gould to describe phyletic gradualism as \"evolution by creeps.\"\n\nGould made significant contributions to evolutionary developmental biology, especially in his work \"Ontogeny and Phylogeny\". In this book he emphasized the process of heterochrony, which encompasses two distinct processes: neoteny and terminal additions. Neoteny is the process where ontogeny is slowed down and the organism does not reach the end of its development. Terminal addition is the process by which an organism adds to its development by speeding and shortening earlier stages in the developmental process. Gould's influence in the field of evolutionary developmental biology continues to be seen today in areas such as the evolution of feathers.\n\nGould was a champion of biological constraints, internal limitations upon developmental pathways, as well as other non-selectionist forces in evolution. Rather than direct adaptations, he considered many higher functions of the human brain to be the unintended side consequence of natural selection. To describe such co-opted features, he coined the term exaptation with paleontologist Elisabeth Vrba. Gould believed this feature of human mentality undermines an essential premise of human sociobiology and evolutionary psychology.\n\nIn 1975, Gould's Harvard colleague E. O. Wilson introduced his analysis of animal behavior (including human behavior) based on a sociobiological framework that suggested that many social behaviors have a strong evolutionary basis. In response, Gould, Richard Lewontin, and others from the Boston area wrote the subsequently well-referenced letter to \"The New York Review of Books\" entitled, \"Against 'Sociobiology'\". This open letter criticized Wilson's notion of a \"deterministic view of human society and human action.\"\n\nBut Gould did not rule out sociobiological explanations for many aspects of animal behavior, and later wrote: \"Sociobiologists have broadened their range of selective stories by invoking concepts of inclusive fitness and kin selection to solve (successfully I think) the vexatious problem of altruism—previously the greatest stumbling block to a Darwinian theory of social behavior... Here sociobiology has had and will continue to have success. And here I wish it well. For it represents an extension of basic Darwinism to a realm where it should apply.\"\n\nWith Richard Lewontin, Gould wrote an influential 1979 paper entitled, \"The Spandrels of San Marco and the Panglossian Paradigm\", \nwhich introduced the architectural term \"spandrel\" into evolutionary biology. In architecture, a spandrel is a triangular space which exists over the haunches of an arch. Spandrels—more often called pendentives in this context—are found particularly in classical architecture, especially Byzantine and Renaissance churches.\n\nWhen visiting Venice in 1978, Gould noted that the spandrels of the San Marco cathedral, while quite beautiful, were not spaces planned by the architect. Rather the spaces arise as \"necessary architectural byproducts of mounting a dome on rounded arches.\" Gould and Lewontin thus defined \"spandrels\" in the evolutionary biology context to mean any biological feature of an organism that arises as a necessary side consequence of other features, which is not directly selected for by natural selection. Proposed examples include the \"masculinized genitalia in female hyenas, exaptive use of an umbilicus as a brooding chamber by snails, the shoulder hump of the giant Irish deer, and several key features of human mentality.\"\n\nIn Voltaire's \"Candide\", Dr. Pangloss is portrayed as a clueless scholar who, despite the evidence, insists that \"all is for the best in this best of all possible worlds\". Gould and Lewontin asserted that it is Panglossian for evolutionary biologists to view all traits as atomized things that had been naturally selected for, and criticised biologists for not granting theoretical space to other causes, such as phyletic and developmental constraints. The relative frequency of spandrels, so defined, versus adaptive features in nature, remains a controversial topic in evolutionary biology. An illustrative example of Gould's approach can be found in Elisabeth Lloyd's case study suggesting that the female orgasm is a by-product of shared developmental pathways. Gould also wrote on this topic in his essay \"Male Nipples and Clitoral Ripples\" prompted by Lloyd's earlier work.\n\nGould was criticized by philosopher Dan Dennett for using the term spandrel instead of pendentive, a spandrel that curves across a right angle to support a dome. Robert Mark, a professor of civil engineering at Princeton, offered his expertise in the pages of \"American Scientist\", noting that these definitions are often misunderstood in architectural theory. Mark concluded, \"Gould and Lewontin's misapplication of the term spandrel for pendentive perhaps implies a wider latitude of design choice than they intended for their analogy. But Dennett's critique of the architectural basis of the analogy goes even further astray because he slights the technical rationale of the architectural elements in question.\"\n\nGould favored the argument that evolution has no inherent drive towards long-term \"progress\". Uncritical commentaries often portray evolution as a ladder of progress, leading towards bigger, faster, and smarter organisms, the assumption being that evolution is somehow driving organisms to get more complex and ultimately more like humankind. Gould argued that evolution's drive was not towards complexity, but towards diversification. Because life is constrained to begin with a simple starting point (like bacteria), any diversity resulting from this start, by random walk, will have a skewed distribution and therefore be perceived to move in the direction of higher complexity. But life, Gould argued, can also easily adapt towards simplification, as is often the case with parasites.\n\nIn a review of \"\", Richard Dawkins approved of Gould's general argument, but suggested that he saw evidence of a \"tendency for lineages to improve cumulatively their adaptive fit to their particular way of life, by increasing the numbers of features which combine together in adaptive complexes. ... By this definition, adaptive evolution is not just incidentally progressive, it is deeply, dyed-in-the-wool, indispensably progressive.\"\n\nGould never embraced cladistics as a method of investigating evolutionary lineages and process, possibly because he was concerned that such investigations would lead to neglect of the details in historical biology, which he considered all-important. In the early 1990s this led him into a debate with Derek Briggs, who had begun to apply quantitative cladistic techniques to the Burgess Shale fossils, about the methods to be used in interpreting these fossils. Around this time cladistics rapidly became the dominant method of classification in evolutionary biology. Inexpensive but increasingly powerful personal computers made it possible to process large quantities of data about organisms and their characteristics. Around the same time the development of effective polymerase chain reaction techniques made it possible to apply cladistic methods of analysis to biochemical and genetic features as well.\n\nMost of Gould's empirical research pertained to land snails. He focused his early work on the Bermudian genus \"Poecilozonites\", while his later work concentrated on the West Indian genus \"Cerion\". According to Gould \"\"Cerion\" is the land snail of maximal diversity in form throughout the entire world. There are 600 described species of this single genus. In fact, they're not really species, they all interbreed, but the names exist to express a real phenomenon which is this incredible morphological diversity. Some are shaped like golf balls, some are shaped like pencils. ... Now my main subject is the evolution of form, and the problem of how it is that you can get this diversity amid so little genetic difference, so far as we can tell, is a very interesting one. And if we could solve this we'd learn something general about the evolution of form.\"\n\nGiven \"Cerion's\" extensive geographic diversity, Gould later lamented that if Christopher Columbus had only catalogued a single \"Cerion\" it would have ended the scholarly debate about which island Columbus had first set foot on in America.\n\nGould is one of the most frequently cited scientists in the field of evolutionary theory. His 1979 \"spandrels\" paper has been cited more than 5,000 times. In \"Paleobiology\"—the flagship journal of his own speciality—only Charles Darwin and George Gaylord Simpson have been cited more often. Gould was also a considerably respected historian of science. Historian Ronald Numbers has been quoted as saying: \"I can't say much about Gould's strengths as a scientist, but for a long time I've regarded him as the second most influential historian of science (next to Thomas Kuhn).\"\n\nShortly before his death, Gould published \"The Structure of Evolutionary Theory\" (2002), a long treatise recapitulating his version of modern evolutionary theory. In an interview for the Dutch TV series \"Of Beauty and Consolation\" Gould remarked, \"In a couple of years I will be able to gather in one volume my view of how evolution works. It is to me a great consolation because it represents the putting together of a lifetime of thinking into one source. That book will never be particularly widely read. It's going to be far too long, and it's only for a few thousand professionals—very different from my popular science writings—but it is of greater consolation to me because it is a chance to put into one place a whole way of thinking about evolution that I've struggled with all my life.\"\n\nGould became widely known through his popular essays on evolution in the \"Natural History\" magazine. His essays were published in a series entitled \"This View of Life\" (a phrase from the concluding paragraph of Charles Darwin's \"Origin of Species\") from January 1974 to January 2001, amounting to a continuous publication of 300 essays. Many of his essays were reprinted in collected volumes that became bestselling books such as \"Ever Since Darwin\" and \"The Panda's Thumb\", \"Hen's Teeth and Horse's Toes\", and \"The Flamingo's Smile\".\n\nA passionate advocate of evolutionary theory, Gould wrote prolifically on the subject, trying to communicate his understanding of contemporary evolutionary biology to a wide audience. A recurring theme in his writings is the history and development of pre-evolutionary and evolutionary thought. He was also an enthusiastic baseball fan and sabermetrician (analyst of baseball statistics), and made frequent reference to the sport in his essays. Many of his baseball essays were anthologized in his posthumously published book \"Triumph and Tragedy in Mudville\" (2003).\n\nAlthough a self-described Darwinist, Gould's emphasis was less gradualist and reductionist than most neo-Darwinists. He fiercely opposed many aspects of sociobiology and its intellectual descendant evolutionary psychology. He devoted considerable time to fighting against creationism, creation science, and intelligent design. Most notably, Gould provided expert testimony against the equal-time creationism law in \"McLean v. Arkansas\". Gould later developed the term \"non-overlapping magisteria\" (NOMA) to describe how, in his view, science and religion should not comment on each other's realm. Gould went on to develop this idea in some detail, particularly in the books \"Rocks of Ages\" (1999) and \"The Hedgehog, the Fox, and the Magister's Pox\" (2003). In a 1982 essay for \"Natural History\" Gould wrote:\n\nAn \"anti-evolution petition\" drafted by the Discovery Institute inspired the National Center for Science Education to create a pro-evolution counterpart called \"Project Steve,\" which is named in Gould's honor. At a meeting of the executive council of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (CSI) in 2011 selected Gould for inclusion in CSI's \"Pantheon of Skeptics\" created to remember the legacy of deceased CSI fellows and their contributions to the cause of scientific skepticism.\n\nGould also became a noted public face of science, often appearing on television. In 1984 Gould received his own \"NOVA\" special on PBS. Other appearances included interviews on CNN's \"Crossfire\" and \"Talkback Live\", NBC's \"The Today Show\", and regular appearances on PBS's \"Charlie Rose\" show. Gould was also a guest in all seven episodes of the Dutch talk series \"A Glorious Accident\", in which he appeared with his close friend Oliver Sacks.\n\nGould was featured prominently as a guest in Ken Burns's PBS documentary \"Baseball\", as well as PBS's \"Evolution\" series. Gould was also on the Board of Advisers to the influential Children's Television Workshop television show \"3-2-1 Contact\", where he made frequent guest appearances.\n\nSince 2013, Gould has been listed on the Advisory Council of the National Center for Science Education.\n\nIn 1997 he voiced a cartoon version of himself on the television series \"The Simpsons\". In the episode \"Lisa the Skeptic\", Lisa finds a skeleton that many people believe is an apocalyptic angel. Lisa contacts Gould and asks him to test the skeleton's DNA. The fossil is discovered to be a marketing gimmick for a new mall. During production the only phrase Gould objected to was a line in the script that introduced him as the \"world's most brilliant paleontologist\". In 2002 the show paid tribute to Gould after his death, dedicating the season 13 finale to his memory. Gould had died two days before the episode aired.\n\nGould received many accolades for his scholarly work and popular expositions of natural history, but a number of biologists felt his public presentations were out of step with mainstream evolutionary thinking. The public debates between Gould's supporters and detractors have been so quarrelsome that they have been dubbed \"The Darwin Wars\" by several commentators.\n\nJohn Maynard Smith, the eminent British evolutionary biologist, was among Gould's strongest critics. Maynard Smith thought that Gould misjudged the vital role of adaptation in biology, and was critical of Gould's acceptance of species selection as a major component of biological evolution. In a review of Daniel Dennett's book \"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\", Maynard Smith wrote that Gould \"is giving non-biologists a largely false picture of the state of evolutionary theory.\" But Maynard Smith was not consistently negative, writing in a review of \"The Panda's Thumb\" that \"Stephen Gould is the best writer of popular science now active... Often he infuriates me, but I hope he will go right on writing essays like these.\" Maynard Smith was also among those who welcomed Gould's reinvigoration of evolutionary paleontology.\n\nOne reason for criticism was that Gould appeared to be presenting his ideas as a revolutionary way of understanding evolution, and argued for the importance of mechanisms other than natural selection, mechanisms which he believed had been ignored by many professional evolutionists. As a result, many non-specialists sometimes inferred from his early writings that Darwinian explanations had been proven to be unscientific (which Gould never tried to imply). Along with many other researchers in the field, Gould's works were sometimes deliberately taken out of context by creationists as \"proof\" that scientists no longer understood how organisms evolved. Gould himself corrected some of these misinterpretations and distortions of his writings in later works.\n\nThe conflicts between Richard Dawkins and Gould were popularized by philosopher Kim Sterelny in his 2001 book \"Dawkins vs. Gould\". Sterelny documents their disagreements over theoretical issues, including the prominence of gene selection in evolution. Dawkins argues that natural selection is best understood as competition among genes (or replicators), while Gould advocated multi-level selection, which includes selection amongst genes, nucleic acid sequences, cell lineages, organisms, demes, species, and clades.\n\nDawkins accused Gould of deliberately underplaying the differences between rapid gradualism and macromutation in his published accounts of punctuated equilibrium. He also devoted entire chapters to critiquing Gould's account of evolution in his books \"The Blind Watchmaker\" and \"Unweaving the Rainbow\", as did Daniel Dennett in his 1995 book \"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\".\n\nIn his book \"Wonderful Life\" (1989) Gould famously described the Cambrian fauna of the Burgess Shale, emphasizing their bizarre anatomical designs, their sudden appearance, and the role chance played in determining which members survived. He used the Cambrian fauna as an example of the role contingency has in shaping the broader pattern of evolution.\n\nHis view of contingency was criticized by Simon Conway Morris in his 1998 book \"The Crucible of Creation\". Conway Morris stressed members of the Cambrian fauna that resemble modern taxa. He also argued that convergent evolution has a tendency to produce \"similarities of organization\" and that the forms of life are restricted and channelled. In his book \"Life's Solution\" (2003) Conway Morris argued that the appearance of human-like animals is also likely. Paleontologist Richard Fortey noted that prior to the release of \"Wonderful Life\", Conway Morris shared a similar thesis to Gould's, but after \"Wonderful Life\" Conway Morris revised his interpretation and adopted a more deterministic position on the history of life.\n\nPaleontologists Derek Briggs and Richard Fortey have also argued that much of the Cambrian fauna may be regarded as stem groups of living taxa, though this is still a subject of intense research and debate, and the relationship of many Cambrian taxa to modern phyla has not been established in the eyes of many palaeontologists.\n\nRichard Dawkins disagrees with the view that new phyla suddenly appeared in the Cambrian, arguing that for a new phylum \"to spring into existence, what actually has to happen on the ground is that a child is born which suddenly, out of the blue, is as different from its parents as a snail is from an earthworm. No zoologist who thinks through the implications, not even the most ardent saltationist, has ever supported any such notion.\" In the \"Structure of Evolutionary Theory\" Gould stresses the difference between phyletic splitting and large anatomical transitions, noting that the two events may be separated by millions of years. Gould argues that no paleontologist regards the Cambrian explosion \"as a genealogical event—that is as the actual time of initial splitting\", but rather it \"marks an anatomical transition in the overt phenotypes of bilaterian organisms.\"\n\nGould also had a long-running public feud with E. O. Wilson and other evolutionary biologists concerning the disciplines of human sociobiology and evolutionary psychology, both of which Gould and Lewontin opposed, but which Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett, and Steven Pinker advocated. These debates reached their climax in the 1970s, and included strong opposition from groups such as the Sociobiology Study Group and Science for the People. Pinker accuses Gould, Lewontin, and other opponents of evolutionary psychology of being \"radical scientists\", whose stance on human nature is influenced by politics rather than science. Gould stated that he made \"no attribution of motive in Wilson's or anyone else's case\" but cautioned that all human beings are influenced, especially unconsciously, by our personal expectations and biases. He wrote:\n\nGould's primary criticism held that human sociobiological explanations lacked evidential support, and argued that adaptive behaviors are frequently assumed to be genetic for no other reason than their supposed universality, or their adaptive nature. Gould emphasized that adaptive behaviors can be passed on through culture as well, and either hypothesis is equally plausible. Gould did not deny the relevance of biology to human nature, but reframed the debate as \"biological potentiality vs. biological determinism.\" Gould stated that the human brain allows for a wide range of behaviors. Its flexibility \"permits us to be aggressive or peaceful, dominant or submissive, spiteful or generous… Violence, sexism, and general nastiness \"are\" biological since they represent one subset of a possible range of behaviors. But peacefulness, equality, and kindness are just as biological—and we may see their influence increase if we can create social structures that permit them to flourish.\"\n\nGould was the author of \"The Mismeasure of Man\" (1981), a history and inquiry of psychometrics and intelligence testing, generating perhaps the greatest controversy of all his books and receiving both widespread praise and extensive criticism, including claims of misrepresentation. Gould investigated the methods of nineteenth century craniometry, as well as the history of psychological testing. Gould claimed that both theories developed from an unfounded belief in biological determinism, the view that \"social and economic differences between human groups—primarily races, classes, and sexes—arise from inherited, inborn distinctions and that society, in this sense, is an accurate reflection of biology.\" The book was reprinted in 1996 with the addition of a new foreword and a critical review of \"The Bell Curve\".\n\nIn 2011, a study conducted by six anthropologists criticized Gould's claim that Samuel Morton unconsciously manipulated his skull measurements, arguing that his analysis of Morton was influenced by his opposition to racism. The group's paper was briefly reviewed in the journal \"Nature\", which recommended a degree of caution, noting that while Gould's opposition to racism might have biased his interpretation of Morton's data, the paper's authors had biases of their own. In 2015, the group's paper was critically reviewed in the journal \"Evolution & Development\" by philosopher of science Michael Weisberg, who argued that Gould's arguments were sound and that Morton's initial measurements were indeed tainted by racial bias. Biologists and philosophers Jonathan Kaplan, Massimo Pigliucci, and Joshua Banta also published a critique of the groups's paper, arguing that many of its claims were misleading and the re-measurements were irrelevant to an analysis of Gould's arguments.\n\nIn his book \"Rocks of Ages\" (1999), Gould put forward what he described as \"a blessedly simple and entirely conventional resolution to ... the supposed conflict between science and religion.\" He defines the term \"magisterium\" as \"a domain where one form of teaching holds the appropriate tools for meaningful discourse and resolution.\" The non-overlapping magisteria (NOMA) principle therefore divides the magisterium of science to cover \"the empirical realm: what the Universe is made of (fact) and why does it work in this way (theory). The magisterium of religion extends over questions of ultimate meaning and moral value. These two magisteria do not overlap, nor do they encompass all inquiry.\" He suggests that \"NOMA enjoys strong and fully explicit support, even from the primary cultural stereotypes of hard-line traditionalism\" and that NOMA is \"a sound position of general consensus, established by long struggle among people of goodwill in both magisteria.\"\n\nThis view has not been without criticism, however. For example, in his book \"The God Delusion\", Richard Dawkins argues that the division between religion and science is not so simple as Gould claims, as few religions exist without claiming the existence of miracles, which \"by definition, violate the principles of science.\" Dawkins also opposes the idea that religion has anything meaningful to say about ethics and values, and therefore has no authority to claim a magisterium of its own. He goes on to say that he believes Gould is disingenuous in much of what he says in \"Rocks of Ages\". Similarly, humanist philosopher Paul Kurtz argues that Gould was wrong to posit that science has nothing to say about questions of ethics. In fact, Kurtz claims that science is a much better method than religion for determining moral principles.\n\nGould's publications were numerous. One review of his publications between 1965 and 2000 noted 479 peer-reviewed papers, 22 books, 300 essays, and 101 \"major\" book reviews. A selected number of his papers are listed online.\n\nThe following is a list of books either written or edited by Stephen Jay Gould, including those published posthumously, after his death in 2002. While some books have been republished at later dates, by multiple publishers, the list below comprises the original publisher and publishing date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "130420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130420", "title": "Summit, Oklahoma", "text": "Summit, Oklahoma\n\nSummit is a town in Muskogee County, Oklahoma, United States. It was originally called South Muskogee when it was platted in 1910, and is one of thirteen all-black towns still surviving at the beginning of the 21st Century. The population was 139 at the 2010 census, a 38.5 percent decline from 226 at the 2000 census.\n\nSummit is located at .\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , all of it land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 226 people, 66 households, and 54 families residing in the town. The population density was 247.8 people per square mile (95.9/km). There were 73 housing units at an average density of 80.0 per square mile (31.0/km). The racial makeup of the town was 84.07% African American, 5.75% White, 3.98% Asian, 1.33% Native American, 0.44% Pacific Islander, and 4.42% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.77% of the population.\n\nThere were 66 households out of which 42.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 59.1% were married couples living together, 18.2% had a female householder with no husband present, and 16.7% were non-families. 15.2% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.42 and the average family size was 3.60.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 42.0% under the age of 18, 11.9% from 18 to 24, 18.1% from 25 to 44, 16.4% from 45 to 64, and 11.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 22 years. For every 100 females, there were 76.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 74.7 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $17,917, and the median income for a family was $15,625. Males had a median income of $16,563 versus $11,875 for females. The per capita income for the town was $6,390. About 34.5% of families and 47.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 65.2% of those under the age of eighteen and 10.0% of those sixty five or over.\n\n"}
{"id": "10388263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10388263", "title": "Teofil Oroian", "text": "Teofil Oroian\n\nTeofil Oroian (born September 20, 1947) is a Romanian Army officer and military historian.\n\nHe was born in Chimitelnic (today Cipăieni), in Mureş County. He graduated from the Ştefan cel Mare Military High-School in Câmpulung Moldovenesc in 1966 and from the Nicolae Bălcescu Military School of Active Officers in Sibiu as military engineer in 1969. In 1981 he graduated with degrees in History and Philosophy from the University of Bucharest. In November 1996, he earned a Ph.D. degree in military science on military history.\n\nOroian was an associate and assistant professor at the NCO Military Engineering School between 1977 and 1981 and at the Academy of Higher Military Studies of Bucharest between 1981 and 1994. Between 1994 and 2002 he was first officer, bureau chief and chief adjunct of Military Archivistic Service (today Military Service for Archives and Documentation). Since February 28, 2002 he is colonel in reserve.\n\nHe has published numerous studies and articles in history and military science journals. He has also authored several books and co-authored a short movie scenario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51174074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51174074", "title": "Theories of Forgetting", "text": "Theories of Forgetting\n\nTheories of Forgetting is a postmodern novel by Lance Olsen, published by Fiction Collective Two in 2014.\n\n\"Theories of Forgetting\" is a novel made up of three intersecting narratives. The first involves the story of a middle-aged video artist, Alana, working on a short experimental video about Robert Smithson's land art Spiral Jetty. The second involves the story of Alana’s husband, Hugh, and his slow disappearance throughout Europe and across Jordan on a trip there both to remember and to forget in the aftermath of Alana’s unexpected death. His vanishing is linked to the Sleeping Beauties, a rising global religious cult that worships barbiturates. The third narrative involves the story of their daughter, Aila, an art critic and conceptual artist living in Berlin, and the marginalia she writes in her father's manuscript she discovers after his disappearance.\n\nEach of these narratives has its own unique form and texture. Alana’s takes the shape of a diary containing photographs, drawings, newspaper clippings, and meditations on Smithson’s oeuvre, with which she becomes increasingly obsessed. Hugh’s is a more conventional third-person narrative, its voice numbed, disoriented, in the wake of his wife's unexpected death. Aila's notes exist only in the margins of Hugh's text.\n\nEach page of the novel is divided in half. One narrative runs across the “top” from “front” to “back,” while the other runs “upside down” across the “bottom” of the page from “back” to “front.” In a sense, then, the novel’s physical structure suggests a spiral. \"Theories of Forgetting\" doesn't possess a front cover. Rather, it possesses two back ones. Opening it, the reader must choose what constitutes the privileged narrative, the one with which to begin, and that choice will exert pressure on the meaning she or he will make, since there are contradictory elements in the competing plots.\n\n\"Theories of Forgetting,\" then, is interested in the materiality of page as well as in such thematic questions as death and the problem of memory and history.\n\n\"The Collagist\" commented that with \"Theories of Forgetting\" \"Olsen delivers what could be called a 'destructuralized' novel that successfully resists the temptation of a conventional narrative strategy, yet for a novel that so self-consciously flashes its experimental bona fides, \"Theories\" remains eminently readable. Innovation and accessibility need not be in opposition to each other.\" \"The Quarterly conversation\" called Olsen's novel \"a masterful work.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "292892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292892", "title": "Timeline of Albanian history", "text": "Timeline of Albanian history\n\nThis is a timeline of Albanian history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Albania and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Albania. See also the list of Albanian monarchs and list of heads of state of Albania.\n\nOttomans ruled over Albanian territory.\n\n\n\"Data as of 1993.\" \n"}
{"id": "1871784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1871784", "title": "Timeline of the English Reformation", "text": "Timeline of the English Reformation\n\nThis is a timeline of the Protestant Reformation in England. The list is not complete and you are welcome to expand it.\n\n"}
{"id": "5481113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5481113", "title": "Timeline of the Space Race", "text": "Timeline of the Space Race\n\nThis is a timeline of first achievements in spaceflight from the first intercontinental ballistic missile through the first multinational human-crewed mission—spanning the era of the Space Race. Two days after the United States announced its intention to launch an artificial satellite, on July 31, 1956, the Soviet Union announced its intention to do the same. Sputnik 1 was launched on October 4, 1957, beating the United States and stunning people all over the world.\n\nProject Vanguard transferred from the NRL to NASA immediately before launch.\n\n The Soviet Union had attempted an earlier rendezvous on August 12, 1962. However, Vostok 3 and Vostok 4 only came within five kilometers of one another, and operated in different orbital planes. \"Pravda\" did not mention this information, but indicated that a rendezvous had taken place.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14808041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14808041", "title": "Vincenz Hasak", "text": "Vincenz Hasak\n\nVincenz Hasak (b. Neustadt, near Friedland, Bohemia, 18 July 1812; d. 1 September 1889, as dean of Weisskirchlitz, near Teplice) was a Catholic historian. After completing his classical and theological studies in Litoměřice, he became chaplain in Arnsdorf, a post he held for eighteen years. Thenceforth to his death he was pastor in Weisskirchlitz. While chaplain, he began to collect old books, paintings, and copper-plate engravings, also gems and shells. He succeeded in collecting a small but highly esteemed museum. His library became particularly famous because of the copious collection of rare early printed books, e.g. the ten pre-Reformation German translations of the Bible.\n\nHe also made a scientific use of his treasures, and wrote several books about them, notable contributions in his day to the knowledge of medieval German religious life and the German language. Especially worthy of mention are: \n\n"}
{"id": "18821476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18821476", "title": "War of the Bands", "text": "War of the Bands\n\nThe War of the Bands (, ) was a civil war, really an extended series of blood feuds, in the western Basque Country, Gascony, and Navarre in the Late Middle Ages. The main primary source for the War is \"Las Bienandanças e fortunas\" by Lope García de Salazar, written \"c\".1471. The war is named after the aristocratic networks of familial alliances and their armed followings, known as \"bandos\" (bands), that carried out constant wars for power and honour across three kingdoms. The wars ceased only with the imposition of royal authority under Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella of Castile, the Catholic Monarchs. \n\nThe wars resulted partly from the destabilising effect of the Castilian Civil War and the ensuing political weakness of the House of Trastámara. That the Seniory of Biscay effectively ceased to exist after 1370 and was subsumed in 1379 into Castile only exacerbated the effects of political anarchy on Biscay. The rise of the towns, notably Bilbao and Bermeo, caused jockeying for municipal power between the rich urban families. The landed nobility, enfeoffed in the heavily encastellated countryside, nursed feuds that dated back centuries. The Legizamon and Zamudiano had been enemies since 1270. Many minor noble families were caught in the feuds of the great families by ties of marriage. \n\nIn 1362, in the early stage of the conflicts, the Legizamon and Zurbarán families fought a battle in the streets of Bilbao. They battled again in the market of Bermeo in 1413. Thereafter until 1433 the fighting between the two bands continued without a truce. The Basurto, who had been enemies of the Legizamon over the rights to a salmon, fought on the side of the Zurbarán. The urban warfare was less fatal than the pitched battles often fought in the countryside: only five men died in a fracas in Bilbao in 1440 and only ten in the streets of Bermeo in 1443. \n\nIn 1413 a private war broke out between Juan de Sant Pedro, from the Labourd in the English Duchy of Gascony, and the Navarrese houses of the Espeleta and the Alzate. After the head of the Alzate and his son were killed, Lord Fernando of the Gamboa family of Gipuzkoa married his son to the daughter and heiress of the Alzate. In consequence he led an attack on Juan de Sant Pedro to avenge his daughter-in-law's family. He was defeated and killed and 150 men died in the battle. \n\nAround 1420 the Gamboinos extended their feuding with an assault by night on the Oñaz family, also of Guipúzcoa. On Christmas, the Oñaz' manor was set alight and the head of the house plus nine others died in the blaze. The Oñaz family lands were then ravaged by the Gamboinos and their allies, but the allies of the Oñaz came to their defence. Of the latter, the Lezcano attacked the Gamboino-allied Balda family and killed its leader. With the end of this little war a whole new network of blood feuds had come into being. \n\nThe Gamboinos and the Balda fought against the Oñaz and the Lezcano at Zumarraga in 1446. The Oñaz were victorious and burnt the Gamboino fortress at Azkoitia. Seventy men and twelve of the leaders were killed. The families, with every wider networks of allies, engaged again in 1447 and 1448. \n\nAs early as 1390 and 1393 warring in Biscay had been reduced by the intervention of the royalist \"hermandades\", capable of drawing on the revenues of royal estates. In 1415 the \"corregidor\", the royally-appointed governor of the \"hermandad\", acting on royal orders, siphoned off Biscayan wheat to the Asturias, inciting a rebellion. The Biscayans were defeated at Erandio with the loss of sixty men and the wheat transfers continued. In 1442 the \"hermandades\" interfered successfully in Bilbao and Mondragón, but the peace established did not endure. In 1457 the war between the Gamboinos and the Oñaz was brought to an abrupt end when the \"hermandades\" rebelled against them both, seized their manors, and expelled their leaders from Guipúzcoa. \n\n"}
{"id": "55059690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55059690", "title": "William Cubbon", "text": "William Cubbon\n\nWilliam Cubbon M.A. (28 May 1865 – 1 January 1955) was a Manx nationalist, antiquarian, author, businessman and librarian who was the first secretary of the Manx Museum, later becoming Director of the Museum.\n\nWilliam Cubbon was born in the small hamlet of Croit-e-Caley in the parish of Rushen, Isle of Man, on 28 May 1865. His father, James Cubbon, was a Master Mariner who hailed from Port St Mary.\n\nAfter leaving school, Cubbon took employment with the \"Isle of Man Examiner\" as a compositor and in 1900, together with Horace Lightfoot, Cubbon acquired the \"Manx Sun\" newspaper. Under the ownership of Cubbon and Lightfoot, the editorial standpoint of the \"Manx Sun\" became nationalist in orientation, and in addition to his newspaper proprietorship Cubbon also became heavily involved in the promotion of Manx history and culture.\n\nThe \"Manx Sun\" and its business were taken over by the \"Isle of Man Examiner\" in 1906, with Cubbon rejoining the title in the capacity of manager of the stationery business.\n\nLeaving the \"Examiner\" in 1912, Cubbon became Borough Librarian of Douglas; in this period he published\n\"A Manx Book of Poetry (1913)\", which was particularly aimed at young people with a view to getting them involved in the culture of the Isle of Man. He also published a set of maps illustrating the ancient treens (divisions of parishes) and land divisions in the island's six sheadings, along with the names of the principal early land owners. During the First World War Cubbon became manager of the Labour Exchange.\n\nIn 1922 the Manx Museum was established on the former site of Noble's Hospital in Douglas. Philip Kermode was appointed the museum's director, with Cubbon appointed as secretary. Following Kermode's death in 1932 Cubbon succeeded him as director, a post he held until his retirement in 1940, when he was replaced by Basil Megaw FRSE. One of the first undertakings by Cubbon in his role as secretary was the compilation of the indexes and several other appendixes to the Rev. Theophilus Talbot's English translation of the \"Manorial Roll\", referred to as the \"Manx Doomsday Book\", which was published in 1924.\nSaid to have been passionately patriotic with regard to the Isle of Man, his appointment as Director of the Manx Museum was said to have been Cubbon's great ambition. In 1899 he had helped in the formation of the Manx Language Society \"(Yn Çheshaght Ghailckagh)\", and served the society as secretary and president. This in turn led to him becoming an energetic figure in the Natural History and Antiquarian Society, again serving in the role of president.\n\nDuring his time at the Manx Museum, Cubbon compiled the \"Bibliography of the Literature of the Isle of Man\", published in two editions in 1933 and 1939; he also conducted numerous explorations for the Antiquarian Society and gave lecture on various subjects.\n\nAt the age of 85 Cubbon began work on his \"Island Heritage\", which was published in 1952.\n\nIn recognition of his achievements William Cubbon received the degree of Master of Arts from Liverpool University. The Government of Norway conferred on him the Knighthood of the Order of St Olav.\n\nWilliam Cubbon passed away at the home of his son, at Brentwood, Essex on New Year's Day, 1955.\n\n"}
{"id": "24683622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24683622", "title": "World-system", "text": "World-system\n\nA world-system is a socioeconomic system, under systems theory, that encompasses part or all of the globe, detailing the aggregate structural result of the sum of the interactions between polities. World-systems are usually larger than single states, but do not have to be global. The Westphalian System is the preeminent world-system operating in the contemporary world, denoting the system of sovereign states and nation-states produced by the Westphalian Treaties in 1648. Several world-systems can coexist, provided that they have little or no interaction with one another. Where such interactions becomes significant, separate world-systems merge into a new, larger world-system. Through the process of globalization, the modern world has reached the state of one dominant world-system, but in human history there have been periods where separate world-systems existed simultaneously, according to Janet Abu-Lughod. The most well-known version of the world-system approach has been developed by Immanuel Wallerstein. A world-system is a crucial element of the world-system theory, a multidisciplinary, macro-scale approach to world history and social change.\n\nWorld-systems are defined by the existence of a division of labor. The modern world-system has a multi-state political structure (the interstate system) and therefore its division of labor is international division of labor. In the modern world-system, the division of labor consists of three zones according to the prevalence of profitable industries or activities: core, semiperiphery, and periphery. Countries tend to fall into one or another of these interdependent zones core countries, semi-periphery countries and the periphery countries. Resources are redistributed from the underdeveloped, typically raw materials-exporting, poor part of the world (the periphery) to developed, industrialized core.\n\nWorld-systems, past world-systems and the modern world-system, have temporal features. \"Cyclical rhythms\" represent the short-term fluctuation of economy, while \"secular trends\" mean deeper long run tendencies, such as general economic growth or decline. The term \"contradiction\" means a general controversy in the system, usually concerning some short term vs. long term trade-offs. For example, the problem of underconsumption, wherein the drive-down of wages increases the profit for the capitalists on the short-run, but considering the long run, the decreasing of wages may have a crucially harmful effect by reducing the demand for the product. The last temporal feature is the \"crisis\": a crisis occurs, if a constellation of circumstances brings about the end of the system.\n\nThe world-systems theory stresses that world-systems (and not nation states) should be the basic unit of social analysis. Thus we should focus not on individual states, but on the relations between their groupings (core, semi-periphery, and periphery).\n\nThe most well-known version of the world-system approach has been developed by Immanuel Wallerstein, who has provided several definitions of what a world-system is, twice in 1974, first\n\nand second as \n\nIn 1987 he elaborated his definition:\n\nThus, we can differentiate world-systems into politically unified (world-empires) and not unified (world-economies). Small, non-state units such as tribes are micro-systems.\n\nWorld system refers to the entire world, whereas world-system is its fragment - the largest unit of analysis that makes sense. Wallerstein stresses the importance of hyphen in the title:\n\nThere is an ongoing debate among scholars whether we can talk about multiple world-systems. For those who support the multiple world-systems approach, there have been many world-systems throughout worlds history, some replacing others, as was the case when a multipolar world-system of the 13th-14th centuries was replaced by a series of consecutive Europe- and the West-centered world-systems. Others coexisted unknowingly with others, not linked to them directly or indirectly; in those cases the world-systems weren't worldwide (for example, prior to colonization of Americas, the Americas world-systems had no connection with the one encompassing Eurasia and Africa). From around 19th century onward, due to the process of globalization, many scholars agree that there has been only one world-system, that of capitalism. It should be noted that there are, however, dissenting voices, as some scholars do not support the contention that there is only one world-system in the modern day; Janet Abu-Lughod states that multiple world-systems did exist in past epochs.\n\nThe alternative approach insists that there was only one World System that originated in the Near East five or even ten thousand years ago, and gradually encompassed the whole world; thus, the present-day truly global World System can be regarded as its continuation.\n"}
