{"id": "47784084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47784084", "title": "Al-aql al-faal", "text": "Al-aql al-faal\n\nAl-aql al-faal () or Wahib al-suwar is a kind of reason in Islamic philosophy and psychology. It is considered acting as links between human beings and divine. It is also counted as the lowest level of celestial intelligences.\n\n\"Aql\" has many different meanings in Islamic philosophy and psychology. The word \"aql\" means to restrain or to tie philologically. Reason namely something which prevent human from hurry judgment and behavior. \"Aql\" gradually transformed to reason semantically. In Islamic philosophy, particularly peripatetic, the technical use of \"aql\" to some extent is under effection of Greek philosophy.\nFor the first time, Farabi numerated several meanings of \"aql\" in his book. Avempace or ibn Bajjeh knows the goal of human and philosopher as connection and unity with active intellect. Active intellect is the last emanation of intelligences which accounts for the forms in the nature world. Through active intellect we could know that what the reality of things in nature is.According to Avicenna those who could separate their souls from earthly distractions, at the same time could united with the active intellect during a journey. in Islamic philosophy the active intellect has to do with Neoplatonic cosmology. this intelligence is associates with moon and Angel Jibril or Holy Spirit (Islam). peripatetic philosophers in Islamic world try to show a Platonized version of active intellect on the basis of which human soul and sensible world united with intelligence and intelligibility. Farabi try to reconciles between peripatetic attitude of active intellect with the Islamic notion of prophecy. Farabi identifies active intellect with jibril, is Islam the angel of revelation. Human could transformed from Aql bi-l-quwwah (potential intellect) into \"Aql bi-l-fi'l\" (actual intellect). Thereby human could free themselves from the darkness of ignorance. Finally \"aql\" reached to \"Aql Al-mustafad\" (the acquired intellect).in the level of acquires intellect, \"aql\" reflects upon its own contents through inquiring among its similarities and distinction.\n\nAql Faal has many basic role in epistemology and psychology in Islamic philosophy.some of them are as follow:\n\n"}
{"id": "27011752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27011752", "title": "Amaravella", "text": "Amaravella\n\nAmaravella (; from Sanskrit \"amaravella\", \"sprouts of immortality\"), or the Cosmists (Космисты), was a group of young Soviet artists active between 1923 and 1928. Its members included Aleksandr Sardan (Barabanov) (1901–1974), Boris Smirnov-Rusetsky (1905–1993), (1891–1971), (1895–1942?), (1900–1972) and (1879–1945/46). Ideologically the group belonged to the Russian cosmism movement. They were heavily influenced by the ancient East's works, as well as those of Helena Blavatsky, Nicholas Roerich, Mikalojus Konstantinas Čiurlionis, and Victor Borisov-Musatov.\n"}
{"id": "36613122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36613122", "title": "Andrea Biglia", "text": "Andrea Biglia\n\nAndrea Biglia (c.1395 – 1435) was an Italian Augustinian humanist, known as a moral philosopher and historian.\n\nHe was born in Milan, and became an Augustinian hermit in 1412. After time studying in Padua he came to the Santo Spirito, Florence in 1418.\n\nIn 1423 he moved to Bologna, and by the end of the 1420s, after a period at Pavia. He was teaching at the University of Siena, having left Bologna because of anti-papal feeling in 1428. There he died of the plague in 1435.\n\nAn early influence was Gasparino Barzizza at Padua, and Sicco Polento, another pupil there, became a friend. Biglia in Florence met the humanist circle including Ambrogio Traversari: others were Giovanni Aurispa, Leonardo Bruni and Niccolò Niccoli. In Bologna he associated with Niccolò Albergati. There he encountered Aurispa again, and the other humanists Leon Battista Alberti, Giovanni Lamola, Antonio Panormita, and Giovanni Toscanella. His interest in Islamic history was stimulated by the 1432 visit to Siena of Sigismund of Hungary.\n\nBiglia wrote a treatise against the populist preacher Bernardino of Siena. In connection with this dispute, Biglia wrote on the Holy Name of Jesus, and these theological writings proved influential. Some of Biglia's own sermons survive.\n\nAs a historian he wrote on Eastern Christendom and Islam, including a history of the Mongols. His best-known work \"Rerum mediolanensium historia\" was a history of Milan in the period 1402–1431 in the style of Livy. In it he was an apologist for the 1424 taking of Forlì by the Visconti.\n\nAs a translator he worked on the \"Vita Timoleontis\" of Plutarch from Greek, which he had learned at some point, and some of Aristotle.\n\n"}
{"id": "15411347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15411347", "title": "Baotang Wuzhu", "text": "Baotang Wuzhu\n\nBaotang Wuzhu (, 714–774CE), was the head and founder of Baotang Monastery () in Chengdu, Sichuan, south west China. Both (Kim Ho-shang) and Baotang Wuzhu were of the same school of Chinese Chán, the East Mountain Teaching (incorrectly known in Western scholarship by the pejorative nomenclature \"Northern School\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8641291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8641291", "title": "Black Fast", "text": "Black Fast\n\nA Black Fast is a severe form of Christian fasting. It is the most rigorous in the history of Church legislation and is marked by austerity regarding the quantity and quality of food permitted on fasting days as well as the time when such food is legitimately taken.\n\nTraditionally, the Black Fast was undertaken during Lent and for a prescribed period of time preceding ordination. In some localities, such as in India and Pakistan, many Christians continue observing the Black Fast on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday, with some fasting in this manner throughout the whole season of Lent.\n\nThe details of the fast, as they were prior to the tenth century, are as follows:\n\n\nThe Black Fast was widely practiced by the faithful of the Anglican Communion in the 19th century, on \"the two great Prayer Book fast days, Ash Wednesday and Good Friday\".\n\nSome Eastern Catholics perform the Black Fast on Fridays during Lent, especially on Good Friday.\n\nThe Black Fast is still observed by the Eastern Orthodox throughout Great Lent, and the three other fasting periods of the year (the Dormition Fast, Nativity Fast, and the Apostles' Fast).\n\nThe term \"Black Fast\" has a different connotation within the Romanian Orthodox Church, which defines it somewhat similar to the definition given by those within the realms of the Classical Pentecostal movement (see below).\n\nThe term \"Black Fast\" has a different connotation with writers within Classical Pentecostalism. A Black Fast is complete abstinence from food or water and nothing is consumed in its duration. Dr. Curtis Ward teaches that the Black Fast should never extend beyond three days because of ketosis, possible kidney damage, and dehydration. He further states that nothing in the New Testament says that they extended this type of fast beyond that limitation and that Christ's fast included water because \"he was afterward an hungred\" and was offered bread. If he had abstained from water he would have obviously craved water first and foremost. Dr. Ward states that the Black Fast, Hebrew Fast, and the Absolute Fast are synonymous terms.\n\nThe former Arthur Wallis coined the term \"Absolute Fast\" in 1968 in his book \"God's Chosen Fast.\" A Normal Fast or \"Complete Fast\" consists of eating nothing but drinking pure water. A Partial Fast (or Daniel Fast) consists of eliminating all but one type of food or eliminating just one type of food. The Black Fast is observed on rare occasions in Pentecostal circles while the Normal Fast is most usually undertaken.\n\nThe Black Fast was widely practiced by the faithful during the Lenten season by \"kings and princes, clergy and laity, rich and poor\". In addition, the Black Fast was kept on the days preceding one's ordination. When fasting today, Roman Catholics have the liberty to fast in this manner, or in the modern fashion in which a collation is permitted.\n"}
{"id": "3959150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959150", "title": "Calcidius", "text": "Calcidius\n\nCalcidius (or Chalcidius) was a 4th-century philosopher (and possibly a Christian) who translated the first part (to 53c) of Plato's \"Timaeus\" from Greek into Latin around the year 321 and provided with it an extensive commentary. This was likely done for Bishop Hosius of Córdoba. Very little is otherwise known of him.\n\nHis translation of the \"Timaeus\" was the only extensive text of Plato known to scholars in the Latin West for approximately 800 years. His commentary also contained useful accounts of Greek astronomical knowledge. In the 12th century commentaries on this work were written by Christian scholars including Hisdosus and philosophers of the Chartres School, such as Thierry of Chartres and William of Conches. Interpreting it in the light of the Christian faith, the academics in the School of Chartres understood the dialogue to refer to creation \"ex nihilo\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14285414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14285414", "title": "Correlative rights doctrine", "text": "Correlative rights doctrine\n\nThe correlative rights doctrine is a legal doctrine limiting the rights of landowners to a common source of groundwater (such as an aquifer) to a reasonable share, typically based on the amount of land owned by each on the surface above. This doctrine is also applied to oil and gas in some U.S. states.\n\nUnder California law, the owners of overlying land own the subsurface water as tenants in common, and each is allowed a reasonable amount for his/her own use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2220131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2220131", "title": "Düsseldorf school of painting", "text": "Düsseldorf school of painting\n\nThe Düsseldorf school of painting refers to a group of painters who taught or studied at the Düsseldorf Academy (now the Staatliche Kunstakademie Düsseldorf or Düsseldorf State Art Academy) in the 1830s and 1840s, when the Academy was directed by the painter Wilhelm von Schadow. The work of the Düsseldorf School is characterized by finely detailed yet fanciful landscapes, often with religious or allegorical stories set in the landscapes. Leading members of the Düsseldorf School advocated \"plein air painting\", and tended to use a palette with relatively subdued and even colors. The Düsseldorf School grew out of and was a part of the German Romantic movement. Prominent members of the Düsselorf School included von Schadow, Karl Friedrich Lessing, Johann Wilhelm Schirmer, Andreas Achenbach, Hans Fredrik Gude, Oswald Achenbach, and Adolf Schrödter.\n\nThe Düsseldorf School had a significant influence on the Hudson River School in the United States, and many prominent Americans trained at the Düsseldorf Academy and show the influence of the Düsseldorf School, including George Caleb Bingham, David Edward Cronin, Eastman Johnson, Worthington Whittredge, Richard Caton Woodville, William Stanley Haseltine, James McDougal Hart, Helen Searle, and William Morris Hunt, as well as German émigré Emanuel Leutze. Albert Bierstadt applied but was not accepted. His American friend Worthington Whittredge became his teacher while attending Düsseldorf.\n\nBetween 1819 and 1918, some 4000 artists belonged to the Düsseldorf school of painting, including:\n"}
{"id": "4517577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4517577", "title": "Eric P. Hamp", "text": "Eric P. Hamp\n\nEric Pratt Hamp (born November 16, 1920) is an American linguist widely respected as a leading authority on Indo-European linguistics, with particular interests in Celtic languages and Albanian. Unlike many Indo-Europeanists, who work entirely on the basis of written materials, he has conducted extensive fieldwork on lesser-known Indo-European languages and dialects, such as Albanian, Arbëresh and Arvanitika; Breton; Welsh; Irish; and Scots Gaelic.\n\nHis wide-ranging interests have also included American Indian languages. He served for many years as editor of the \"International Journal of American Linguistics\" and did field work on Quileute and Ojibwa. He also studied linguistic aspects of braille.\n\nHamp's scholarship is characterized by the densely argued, narrowly focused note, essay and review, generally consisting of a few pages. He has written more than 3,500 articles and reviews, and nearly every important aspect of historical linguistics has been dealt with, often multiple times, in Hamp's writings.\n\nHe is the Robert Maynard Hutchins Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus at the University of Chicago and in spite of his advanced age, he continues to write, edit, speak and travel at select meetings and conferences, and remains an Associate Editor of the journal \"Anthropological Linguistics\".\n\nBorn in London in 1920, Hamp attended Tome School as a young boy and entered Amherst College at age 16 where he received his BA in 1942. He served in the U.S. Army and after being discharged in 1947 resumed his studies, receiving an MA (1948) and PhD (1954) both from Harvard University. Among Hamp's teachers at Harvard were Joshua Whatmough and Kenneth H. Jackson.\n\nHamp spent his entire academic career on the faculty of the University of Chicago, which he joined in 1950 and from which he retired in 1991. At Chicago, he is the Robert Maynard Hutchins Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus in the Department of Linguistics, where he served as chair from 1966 to 1969.\n\nHamp also held appointments at the University of Chicago in the departments of Psychology and Slavic Languages and Literatures, as well as in the Committee on the Ancient Mediterranean World. He served as director for the Center for Balkan and Slavic Studies from 1965 to 1991.\n\nHe was a visiting fellow and faculty member at a number of institutions throughout the world, including the University of Michigan; the University of Wisconsin; the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies; the University of Edinburgh; and the Luigj Gurakuqi University of Shkodër, Albania. In 1960, he held the Hermann and Klara H. Collitz Professorship for Comparative Philology at the Linguistic Society of America Summer Institute at the University of Texas.\n\nHamp has also been a prodigious lecturer, and among the invited talks he has given are the Rudolf Thurneysen Memorial Lecture at the University of Bonn and the James W. Poultney Lecture at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nHamp's extensive career has brought him recognition from multiple disciplines in language studies, including six Festschriften: one in general linguistics, two in Balkan studies, one in Native American languages, one in Indo-European linguistics and one in Celtic studies. These works include \"Studies in Balkan Linguistics to Honor Eric P. Hamp on his Sixtieth Birthday, Folia Slavica\" 4, 2-3, published in 1981 and edited by Howard I. Aronson and Bill J. Darden; \"Celtic Language, Celtic Culture: A Festschrift for Eric P. Hamp,\" published in 1990 and edited by A.T. E. Matonis and Daniel F. Melia; and \"Scritti in onore di Eric Pratt Hamp per il suo 90. compleanno\", edited by Giovanni Belluscio and Antonio Mendicino of the University of Calabria and published in 2010 (ISBN 9 788874 581016).\n\nHamp is a member of many academies and learned societies, including the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters and the Albanian Academy of Sciences, and holds honorary doctorates from Amherst College, University of Wales, the University of Calabria, the University of Delhi, and the University of Edinburgh.\n\nOn his 92nd birthday in 2012, Posta Shqiptare, the national postal service of Albania, honored Hamp with a 50 lekë stamp in a series commemorating foreign Albanologists, linguists who have studied the Albanian language. Hamp was the only living Albanologist honored in the series, the two other commemorated linguists being Norbert Jokl and Holger Pedersen.\n\nAuthor: A Glossary of American Technical Linguistic Usage, 3d rev. ed., 1966, Vaccarizzo Albanese Phonology, 1993; (with others) Language and Machines, 1966; co-editor Readings in Linguistics I & II, abridged ed., 1995, Languages and Areas: Studies presented to George V. Bobrinskoy, 1967, Themes in Linguistics: The 1970s, 1973; advisory editor: Foundations of Language 1964-74, Studies in Language, 1974–79, General Linguistics, 1966–91, Papers in Language and Lit., 1965–92, Journal Linguistics, 1971–81, Journal Indo-European Studies, 1972—, Folia Linguistica Historica, 1978–98, Ann. of Armenian Linguistics, 1978—, Anthropological Linguistics, 1981—, Etudes Celtiques, 1982—, Journal Historical Linguistics and Philology, 1982–90, Glossologia (Athens), 1983–99, Jewish Language Rev. (Haifa), 1983, Medieval Language Rev., 1991—, Linguistics Abstracts, 1985, 95, Voprosy Jazykoznanija (Moscow), 1988–92, Studia Indogermanica, 1990—, Albanica, 1991–93; associate editor: International Journal Am. Linguistics, 1967–92, emeritus editor, 1992—, Native American Texts Series, 1974—, founding editor; Atlas Linguarum Europae, 1984—; section head comparative and hist. linguistics: Celtic and Albanian sections Modern Language Association Ann. Bibliography, 1969–82; advisor: Encyclopedia Brit., 1969–2000, member advisory committee, 1985–2000; member adv. board and contributor Pergamon-Aberdeen Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics, 1988–94; member Advisory Board Slavia Centralis, 2009—; adv. and project linguist Braille Reading and Language Programs and Braille Research Center, Am. Printing House for the Blind, 1977–96, member International English Braille Linguistics committee, 1994—; editor for etymologies: Random House Unabridged Dictionary (rev. ed.); Participant in Yeniseic-Tlingit-Athabaskan Familial Proof, Tokyo, Leipzig and Alaska 2004,-06, 08, 10; author ca. 1,500 articles in field.\n\nAmong the more than 3500 articles, reviews and other works Eric Hamp has produced, some notable ones are:\n\n"}
{"id": "26172470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26172470", "title": "Externalism", "text": "Externalism\n\nExternalism is a group of positions in the philosophy of mind which argues that the conscious mind is not only the result of what is going on inside the nervous system (or the brain), but also what \"occurs\" or \"exists\" outside the subject. It is contrasted with internalism which holds that the mind emerges from neural activity alone. Externalism is a belief that the mind is not just the brain or functions of the brain.\n\nThere are different versions of externalism based on different beliefs about what the mind is taken to be. Externalism stresses factors external to the nervous system. At one extreme, the mind could \"possibly\" depend on external factors. At the opposite extreme, the mind \"necessarily\" depends on external factors. The extreme view of externalism argues either that the mind is \"constituted by\" or \"identical with\" processes partially or totally external to the nervous system.\n\nAnother important criterion in externalist theory is to which aspect of the mind is addressed. Some externalists focus on cognitive aspects of the mindsuch as Andy Clark and David Chalmers, Shaun Gallagher and many otherswhile others engage either the phenomenal aspect of the mind or the conscious mind itself. Several philosophers consider the conscious phenomenal content and activity, such as William Lycan, Alex Byrne or Francois Tonneau; Teed Rockwell or Riccardo Manzotti.\n\nThe proto-externalist group includes authors who were not considered as externalist but whose work suggest views similar to current forms of externalism. The first group of protexternalists to consider is the group of neorealists active at the beginning of 1900. In particular, Edwin Holt suggested a view of perception that considered the external world as constitutive of mental content. His rejection of representation paved the way to consider the external object as being somehow directly perceived: “Nothing can represent a thing but that thing itself”. Holt’s words anticipated by almost a century the anti-representationalist slogan by Rodney Brooks: \"The world is its best representation\". \n\nMore recently, neorealist views were refreshed by Francois Tonneau, who wrote that “According to neorealism, consciousness is merely a part, or cross-section, of the environment. Neorealism implies that all conscious experiences, veridical or otherwise”\n\nAnother notable author is Alfred North Whitehead. Whitehead's process ontology is a form of externalism since it endorses a neutral ontology. The basic elements (prehension, actual occasions, events, and processes) proceeded from microscopic activity up to the highest level of psychological and emotional life. David Ray Griffin has written an update on Whitehead's thought.\n\nJohn Dewey also expressed a conception of the mind and its role in the world which is sympathetic with externalism.\n\nGregory Bateson also outlined an ecological view of the mind. Because of his background in cybernetics, he was familiar with the notion of feedback that somehow hampers the traditional separation between the inside and the outside of a system. He questioned the traditional boundary of the mind and tried to express an ecological view of it, attempting to show that the chasm between mind and nature is less obvious than it seems.\n\nSemantic externalism is the first form of externalism which was dubbed so. As the name suggests it focuses on mental content of semantic nature.\n\nSemantic externalism suggests that the mental content does not supervene on what is in the head. Yet the physical basis and mechanisms of the mind remain inside the head. This is a relatively safe move since it does not jeopardize our beliefs of being located inside our cranium. Hilary Putnam focused particularly on intentionality between our thoughts and external state of affairs – whether concepts or objects. To defend his position, Putnam developed the famous Twin Earth thought experiment. Putnam expressed his view with the slogan \"'meanings' just ain't in the \"head\".\"\n\nIn contrast, Tyler Burge emphasized the social nature of the external world suggesting that semantic content is externally constituted by means of social, cultural, and linguistic interactions.\n\nPhenomenal externalism extends the externalist view to phenomenal content. Fred Dretske (Dretske 1996) suggested that “The experiences themselves are in the head (why else would closing one's eyes or stopping one's ears extinguish them?), but nothing in the head (indeed, at the time one is having the experiences, nothing outside the head) need have the qualities that distinguish these experiences.” (Dretske 1996, p. 144-145). So, although experiences remain in the head, their phenomenal content could depend on something elsewhere.\n\nIn similar way, William Lycan defended an externalist and representationalist view of phenomenal experience. In particular, he objected to the tenet that qualia are narrow.\n\nIt has been often held that some, if not all, of mental states must have a broad content, that is an external content to their vehicles. For instance, Frank Jackson and Philip Pettit stated that “The contents of certain intentional states are broad or context-bound. The contents of some beliefs depend on how things are outside the subject” (Jackson and Pettit 1988, p. 381)\n\nHowever, neither Dretske nor Lycan go far as to claim that the phenomenal mind extends literally and physically beyond the skin. In sum they suggest that phenomenal contents could depend on phenomena external to the body, while their vehicles remains inside.\n\nThe extended mind model suggests that cognition is larger than the body of the subject. According to such a model, the boundaries of cognitive processes are not always inside the skin. “Minds are composed of tools for thinking” (Dennett 2000, p. 21). According to Andy Clark, “cognition leaks out into body and world”. The mind then is no longer inside the skull, but it is extended to comprehend whatever tools are useful (ranging from notepad and pencils up to smartphones and USB memories). This, in a nutshell, is the model of the extended mind. \n\nWhen someone uses pencil and paper to compute large sums, cognitive processes extend to the pencil and paper themselves. In a loose sense, nobody would deny it. In a stronger sense, it can be controversial whether the boundaries of the cognitive mind would extend to the pencil and paper. For most of the proponents of the extended mind, the phenomenal mind remains inside the brain. While commenting on Andy Clark’s last book \"Supersizing the Mind\", David Chalmers asks “what about the big question: extended consciousness? The dispositional beliefs, cognitive processes, perceptual mechanisms, and moods […] extend beyond the borders of consciousness, and it is plausible that it is precisely the nonconscious part of them that is extended.” (Chalmers 2009, p. xiv)\n\nEnactivism and embodied cognition stress the tight coupling between the cognitive processes, the body, and the environment. Enactivism builds upon the work of other scholars who could be considered as proto externalists; these include Gregory Bateson, James J. Gibson, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Eleanor Rosch and many others. These thinkers suggest that the mind is either dependent on or identical with the interactions between the world and the agents. For instance, Kevin O’Regan and Alva Noe suggested in a seminal paper that the mind is constituted by the sensory-motor contingency between the agent and the world. A sensory-motor contingency is an occasion to act in a certain way and it results from the matching between environmental and bodily properties. To a certain extent a sensory-motor contingencies strongly resembles Gibson’s affordances. Eventually, Noe developed a more epistemic version of enactivism where the content is the knowledge the agent has as to what it can do in a certain situation. In any case he is an externalist when he claims that “What perception is, however, is not a process in the brain, but a kind of skilful activity on the part of the animal as a whole. The enactive view challenges neuroscience to devise new ways of understanding the neural basis of perception and consciousness” (Noë 2004, p. 2). Recently, Noe published a more popular and shorter version of his position.\n\nEnactivism receives support from various other correlated views such as embodied cognition or situated cognition. These views are usually the result of the rejection of the classic computational view of the mind which is centered on the notion of internal representations. Enactivism receives its share of negative comments, particularly from neuroscientists such as Christof Koch (Koch 2004, p. 9): “While proponents of the enactive point of view rightly emphasize that perception usually takes place within the context of action, I have little patience for their neglect of the neural basis of perception. If there is one thing that scientists are reasonably sure of, it is that brain activity is both necessary and sufficient for biological sentience.”\n\nTo recap, enactivism is a case of externalism, sometimes restricted to cognitive or semantic aspects, some other times striving to encompass phenomenal aspects. Something that no enactivist has so far claimed is that all phenomenal content is the result of the interaction with the environment.\n\nSome externalists suggest explicitly that phenomenal content as well as the mental process are partially external to the body of the subject. The authors considering these views wonder whether not only cognition but also the conscious mind could be extended in the environment. While enactivism, at the end of the day, accepts the standard physicalist ontology that conceives the world as made of interacting objects, these more radical externalists consider the possibility that there is some fundamental flaw in our way to conceive reality and that some ontological revision is indeed unavoidable.\n\nTeed Rockwell recently published a wholehearted attack against all forms of dualism and internalism. He proposed that the mind emerges not entirely from brain activity but from an interacting nexus of brain, body, and world. He therefore endorses embodied cognition, holding that neuroscience wrongly endorses a form of \"Cartesian materialism\", an indictment also issued by many others. Dwelling on John Dewey’s heritage, he argues that the brain and the body bring into existence the mind as a \"behavioral field\" in the environment.\n\nTed Honderich is perhaps the philosopher with the greatest experience in the field. He defends a position he himself dubbed \"radical externalism\" perhaps because of its ontological consequences. One of his main examples is that \"what it actually is for you to be aware of the room you are in, it is for the room a way to exist.\" According to him, “Phenomenologically, what it is for you to be perceptually conscious is for a world somehow to exist”. Therefore, he identifies existence with consciousness.\n\nAnother radical form of phenomenal externalism is the view called the \"spread mind\" by Riccardo Manzotti. He questions the separation between subject and object, seeing these as only two incomplete perspectives and descriptions of the same physical process. He supports a process ontology that endorses a mind spread physically and spatio-temporally beyond the skin. Objects are not autonomous as we know them, but rather actual processes framing our reality.\n\nA more radical and sophisticated explanation was proposed by Roger Bartra with his theory of the exocerebrum. He explains that consciousness is both inside and outside the brain, and that the frontier that separates both realms is useless and a burden in the explanation of the self. In his Anthropology of the brain: \"Consciousness, culture, and free will\" (Cambridge University Press, 2014; originally published in Spanish in 2005) he criticizes both externalism and internalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1195803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1195803", "title": "Folk science", "text": "Folk science\n\nFolk science describes ways of understanding and predicting the natural and social world, without the use of rigorous methodologies (see Scientific method). One could label all understanding of nature predating the Greeks as \"folk science\".\n\nFolk science is often accepted as \"common wisdom\" in a given culture, and gets passed on as memes. According to some evolutionary psychologists, it may also reflect the output of evolved cognitive processes of the human mind which have been adapted in the course of human evolution.\n\nSkeptics often investigate the influence and validity of folk science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8671831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8671831", "title": "Foundation for International Spiritual Unfoldment", "text": "Foundation for International Spiritual Unfoldment\n\nFoundation for International Spiritual Unfoldment (FISU) is an international organization that provides courses of Meditation for Spiritual Unfoldment. It is a non-denominational, non-sectarian organization, registered as a UK Educational Non Profit Making Charity (No: 1061185) and non-profit organization in Cyprus (No: 4289). Its headquarters are in London. \n\nFISU was established in 1988 as a continuation of IFSU (\"International Foundation of Spiritual Unfoldment\", founded by Gururaj Ananda Yogi) by Gururaj’s prime disciples Rajesh Ananda (b. 1959, Barking, Essex, England) and Jasmini Ananda (native of Trinidad, Trinidad and Tobago) who have led the Foundation ever since. It aims to \"advance the education of the public in spirituality and related subjects with particular reference to the teachings of Gururaj Ananda Yogi\", providing guidance in meditation and spiritual unfoldment.\n\nThe proposed benefits of meditation include overcoming stress, depression, anger, neutralizing mood swings, increase creativity, peace of mind, inner strength, increase happiness, improvement in health, and generally improving the quality of life.\n\nFISU (\"Foundation for International Spiritual Unfoldment\") uses \"Spiritual Unfoldment\" as the method for its meditation philosophy. This is realized by the lectures made by Gururaj Ananda Yogi and Rajesh Ananda on many different subjects ranging from practical to philosophical, metaphysical to mystical, sublime to divine.\n\nMeditation for Spiritual Unfoldment focuses on the regular practice of meditation and conscious effort in the daily living. By this, as questions will arise from within, the meditator as a spiritual aspirant will continuously seek answers towards further knowledge. \n\nThe practice of \"Spiritual Unfoldment\" meditation then goes further on and the gained knowledge (as a \"spiritual\" / \"mind\" food) is digested and assimilated by the meditator. The cycle then continues and restarts as knowledge is acquired, forming the basis for further enquiry. When this information is fully digested and assimilated it becomes \"wisdom\".\n\nThe \"Spiritual Unfoldment\" meditation school of thought holds as principle that since all humans are individuals spiritually, mentally and physically, they must therefore be treated individually when it comes to the \"Path\" of \"Spiritual Unfoldment\" and the way they should practice meditation on that path. In practice, since each individual person / meditator is tuned in a distinct \"vibration\" (known as \"mantra\"), the meditation practices to be used by the individual must be unique. A personal mantra is attributed to each individual which is used in the \"Spiritual Unfoldment\" meditation, reflecting one’s personal vibration, one’s individuality. The mantra is prescribed by a Spiritual Master (Guru) who has the ability to \"hear\" that vibration into each person.\n\nThe principles of the Path that are pillaring, lead to and from the Spiritual Unfoldment meditation are: \n\nWhilst its headquarters is in the UK, FISU currently provides meditation courses with more than 80 Teaching Centres worldwide in many countries: Australia, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Greece, India, Spain, Thailand, America, Argentina, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong, Germany, Hungary and the UK.\n\nQualified FISU meditation teachers provide courses (individually or in small groups) of prescribed personalized meditation techniques. Courses may be residential, non-residential, corporate and for children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38728767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38728767", "title": "Fred Poché", "text": "Fred Poché\n\nFred Poché (born May 21, 1960) is a French philosopher. Bachelor of philosophy (ICP Institut Catholique de Paris), higher degree in language sciences from the University of Paris III : Sorbonne nouvelle, PhD in philosophy (Paris X-Nanterre), and accreditation awarded (Habilitation) by the University of Strasbourg as supervisor of doctoral students. He is professor of contemporary philosophy at the Catholic University of the West in Angers. His research concerns social philosophy and covers the following fields: recognition, dignity, vulnerability, memories, wounds, racism, contextuality and politics .\n\nFinot Prize for 2009 awarded by the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences for : \"Blessures intimes, blessures sociales. De la plainte à la solidarité\", Paris, Cerf, 2008 .\n\n\n == English articles ==\n\n"}
{"id": "21063157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21063157", "title": "Frederick Fraley", "text": "Frederick Fraley\n\nFrederick Fraley (May 18, 1804September 23, 1901) was an American businessman, politician, and civic leader.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Fraley joined the wholesale hardware business at the age of 16, and subsequently began importing hardware. Throughout his life Fraley was involved in a variety of business and commercial ventures, serving as the executive head of the Schuylkill Navigation Company, the Western Savings Fund Society, and president of the Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company; he was also associated with the Philadelphia Board of Trade and served as president of the National Board of Trade. In 1824 he helped found the Franklin Institute, and in December 1839 went to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania as a delegate to the Whig Party's national convention, which chose William Henry Harrison to be its candidate in the 1840 presidential election. In 1853 Fraley became a trustee of the University of Pennsylvania. He also held a variety of positions in government, both on City Councils as well as in the Pennsylvania State Senate. For the last twenty-one years of his life Fraley was the president of the American Philosophical Society. He died in his home in Philadelphia from general debility.\n\n"}
{"id": "30857003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857003", "title": "Hindu nationalism", "text": "Hindu nationalism\n\nHindu nationalism has been collectively referred to as the expression of social and political thought, based on the native spiritual and cultural traditions of the Indian subcontinent. Some scholars have argued that the use of the term \"Hindu nationalism\" to refer to \"Hindū rāṣṭravāda\" is a simplistic translation and is better described by the term \"Hindu polity\".\nThe native thought streams became highly relevant in Indian history when they helped form a distinctive identity in relation to the Indian polity and provided a basis for questioning colonialism. They inspired the independence movements against the British Raj based on armed struggle, coercive politics, and non-violent protests. They also influenced social reform movements and economic thinking in India.\n\nHindutva (meaning \"Hinduness\"), a term popularised by Hindu nationalist Vinayak Damodar Savarkar in 1923, is the predominant form of Hindu nationalism in India. Hindutva is championed by right-wing Hindu nationalist volunteer organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), widely regarded as the BJP's parent organisation, along with its affiliate organisations, notably the Vishva Hindu Parishad.\n\nMany Hindu reform movements originated in the nineteenth century. These movements led to the fresh interpretations of the ancient scriptures of Upanishads and Vedanta and also emphasised on social reform. The marked feature of these movements was that they countered the notion of western superiority and white supremacy propounded by the colonizers as a justification for British colonialism in India. This led to the upsurge of patriotic ideas that formed the cultural and an ideological basis for the independence movement in India.\n\nThe Brahmo Samaj was started by a Bengali scholar, Ram Mohan Roy in 1828. Ram Mohan Roy endeavoured to create from the ancient Upanishadic texts, a vision of rationalist 'modern' India. Socially, he criticized the ongoing superstitions, and believed in a monotheistic Vedic religion. His major emphasis was social reform. He fought against Caste discrimination and advocated equal rights for women. Although the Brahmos found favourable response from the British Government and the Westernized Indians, they were largely isolated from the larger Hindu society due to their intellectual Vedantic and Unitarian views. But their efforts to systematise Hindu spirituality based on rational and logical interpretation of the ancient Indian texts would be carried forward by other movements in Bengal and across India.\n\nArya Samaj is considered one of the overarching Hindu renaissance movements of the late nineteenth century. Swami Dayananda, the founder of Arya Samaj, rejected idolatry, caste restriction and untouchability, child marriage and advocated equal status and opportunities for women. He opposed \"Brahmanism\" (which he believed had led to the corruption of the knowledge of Vedas) as much as he opposed Christianity and Islam. Although Arya Samaj was often considered as a social movement, many revolutionaries and political leaders of the Indian Independence movement like Ramprasad Bismil, Bhagat Singh, Shyamji Krishnavarma, Bhai Paramanand and Lala Lajpat Rai were to be inspired by it.\n\nAnother 19th-century Hindu reformer was Swami Vivekananda. Vivekananda as a student was educated in contemporary Western thought. He joined Brahmo Samaj briefly before meeting Ramakrishna, who was a priest in the temple of the goddess Kali in Calcutta and who was to become his guru. Under the influence of Orientalism, Perennialism and Universalism, Vivekananda re-interpreted Advaita Vedanta, presenting it as the essence of Hindu spirituality, and the development of human's religiosity. This project started with Ram Mohan Roy of Brahmo Samaj, who collaborated with the Unitarian Church, and propagated a strict monotheism. This reinterpretation produced neo-Vedanta, in which Advaita Vedanta was combined with disciplines such as yoga and the concept of social service to attain perfection from the ascetic traditions in what Vivekananda called the \"practical Vedanta\". The practical side essentially included participation in social reform.\n\nHe made Hindu spirituality, intellectually available to the Westernized audience. His famous speech at the Parliament of the World's Religions at Chicago on 11 September 1893, followed huge reception of his thought in the West and made him a well-known figure in the West and subsequently in India too. His influence can still be recognised in popular western spirituality, such as nondualism, New Age and the veneration of Ramana Maharshi.\n\nA major element of Vivekananda's message was nationalist. He saw his effort very much in terms of a revitalisation of the Hindu nation, which carried Hindu spirituality and which could counter Western materialism. The notions of White supremacy and Western superiority, strongly believed by the colonizers, were to be questioned based on Hindu spirituality. This kind of spiritual Hinduism was later carried forward by Mahatma Gandhi and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. It also became a main inspiration for the current brand of Hindu nationalism today. One of the most revered leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Babasaheb Apte's lifelong pet sentence was \"Vivekananda is like Gita for the RSS.\" Some historians have observed that this helped the nascent Independence movement with a distinct national identity and kept it from being the simple derivative function of European nationalisms.\n\nSri Aurobindo was a nationalist and one of the first to embrace the idea of complete political independence for India. He was inspired by the writings of Swami Vivekananda and the novels of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay. He “based his claim for freedom for India on the inherent right to freedom, not on any charge of misgovernment or oppression”. He believed that the primary requisite for national progress, national reform, is the free habit of free and healthy national thought and action and that it was impossible in a state of servitude. He was part of the revolutionary group Anushilan Samiti and was involved in armed struggle against the British In his brief political career spanning only four years, he led a delegation from Bengal to the Indian National Congress session of 1907 and contributed to the revolutionary newspaper Bande Mataram.\n\nIn his famous \"Uttarpara Speech\", he outlined the essence and the goal of India's nationalist movement thus:\n\nIn the same speech, he also gave a comprehensive perspective of Hinduism, which is at variance with the geocentric view developed by the later day Hindu nationalist ideologues such as Veer Savarkar and Deendayal Upadhyay:\n\nIn 1910, he withdrew from political life and spent his remaining life doing spiritual exercises and writing. But his works kept inspiring revolutionaries and struggles for independence, including the famous Chittagong Uprising. Both Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo are credited with having founded the basis for a vision of freedom and glory for India in the spirituality and heritage of Hinduism.\n\nThe influence of the Hindu renaissance movements was such that by the turn of the 20th century, there was a confluence of ideas of the Hindu cultural nationalism with the ideas of Indian nationalism. Both could be spoken synonymous even by tendencies that were seemingly opposed to sectarian communalism and Hindu majoritism. The Hindu renaissance movements held considerable influence over the revolutionary movements against the British rule and formed the philosophical basis for the struggles and political movements that originated in the first decade of the twentieth century.\n\nAnushilan Samiti was one of the prominent revolutionary movements in India in the early part of twentieth century. It was started as a cultural society in 1902, by Aurobindo and the followers of Bankim Chandra to propagate the teachings of the Bhagavad Gita. But soon the Samiti had its goal to overthrow the British rule in India. Various branches of the Samiti sprung across India in the guise of suburban fitness clubs but secretly imparted arms training to its members with the implicit aim of using them against the British administration.\n\nOn 30 April 1908 at Muzaffarpur, two revolutionaries, Khudiram Bose and Prafulla Chaki, threw bombs at a British convoy aimed at British officer Kingsford. Both were arrested trying to flee. Aurobindo was also arrested on 2 May 1908 and sent to Alipore Jail. The report sent from Andrew Fraser, the then Lt Governor of Bengal to Lord Minto in England declared that although Sri Aurobindo came to Calcutta in 1906 as a Professor at the National College, “he has ever since been the principal advisor of the revolutionary party. It is of utmost importance to arrest his potential for mischief, for he is the prime mover and can easily set tools, one to replace another.” But charges against Aurobindo were never proved and he was acquitted. Many members of the group faced charges and were transported and imprisoned for life. Others went into hiding.\n\nIn 1910, when, Aurobindo withdrew from political life and decided to live a life of renounciate, the Anushilan Samiti declined. One of the revolutionaries, Jatindra Das Mukherjee, who managed to escape the trial started a group which would be called Jugantar. Jugantar continued with its armed struggle with the British, but the arrests of its key members and subsequent trials weakened its influence. Many of its members were imprisoned for life in the notorious Andaman Cellular jail.\n\nA revolutionary movement was started by Shyamji Krishnavarma, a Sanskritist and an Arya Samajist, in London, under the name of India House in 1905. The brain behind this movement was said to be V D Savarkar. Krishnaverma also published a monthly \"Indian Sociologist\", where the idea of an armed struggle against the British was openly espoused. The movement had become well known for its activities in the Indian expatriates in London. When Gandhi visited London in 1909, he shared a platform with the revolutionaries where both the parties politely agreed to disagree, on the question of violent struggle against British and whether Ramayana justified such violence. Gandhi, while admiring the \"patriotism\" of the young revolutionaries, had \"dissented vociferously\" from their \"violent blueprints\" for social change. In turn the revolutionaries disliked his adherence to constitutionalism and his close contacts with moderate leaders of Indian National Congress. Moreover, they considered his method of \"passive resistance\" effeminate and humiliating.\n\nThe India House had soon to face a closure following the assassination of William Hutt Curzon Wyllie by the revolutionary Madan Lal Dhingra, who was close to India House. Veer Savarkar also faced charges and was transported. Shyamji Krishna Varma fled to Paris. India House gave formative support to ideas that were later formulated by Savarkar in his book named 'Hindutva'. Hindutva was to gain relevance in the run up to the Indian Independence and form the core ideology of the political party Hindu Mahasabha, of which Savarkar became President in 1937. It also formed the key ideology, under the euphemistic relabelling \"Rashtriyatva\" (nationalism), for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh founded in 1925, and of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh (the present-day Bharatiya Janata Party) under another euphemistic relabelling \"Bharatiyata\" (Indianness).\n\n\"Lal-Bal-Pal\" is the phrase that is used to refer to the three nationalist leaders Lala Lajpat Rai, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal who held the sway over the Indian Nationalist movement and the independence struggle in the early parts of twentieth century.\n\nLala Lajpat Rai belonged to the northern province of Punjab. He was influenced greatly by the Arya Samaj and was part of the Hindu reform movement. He joined the Indian National Congress in 1888 and became a prominent figure in the Indian Independence Movement. He started numerous educational institutions. The National College at Lahore started by him became the centre for revolutionary ideas and was the college where revolutionaries like Bhagat Singh studied. While leading a procession against the Simon Commission, he was fatally injured in the lathi charge by the British police. His death led the revolutionaries like Chandrashekar Azad and Bhagat Singh to kill the British officer J. P. Saunders, who they believed was responsible for the death of Lala Lajpat Rai.\n\nBal Gangadhar Tilak was a nationalist leader from the Central Indian province of Maharashtra. He has been widely acclaimed the \"Father of Indian unrest\" who used the press and Hindu occasions like Ganesh Chaturthi and symbols like the Cow to create unrest against the British administration in India. Tilak joined the Indian National Congress in 1890. Under the influence of such leaders, the political discourse of the Congress moved from polite accusation that imperial rule was \"un-British\" to the forthright claim of Tilak that \"Swaraj is my birthright and I will have it\".\n\nBipin Chandra Pal of Bengal was another prominent figure of the Indian nationalist movement, who is considered a modern Hindu reformer, who stood for Hindu cultural nationalism and was opposed to sectarian communalism and Hindu majoritism. He joined the Indian National Congress in 1886 and was also one of the key members of revolutionary India House.\n\nThough Mahatma Gandhi never called himself a \"Hindu nationalist\"; he believed in and propagated concepts like Dharma and \"Rama Rajya” (Rule of Lord Rama) as part of his social and political philosophy. Gandhi said “By political independence I do not mean an imitation to the British House of commons, or the soviet rule of Russia or the Fascist rule of Italy or the Nazi rule of Germany. They have systems suited to their genius. We must have ours suited to ours. What that can be is more than I can tell. I have described it as Ramarajya i.e., sovereignty of the people based on pure moral authority.\" He emphasised that \"Rama Rajya\" to him meant peace and justice. “Whether Rama of my imagination ever lived or not on this earth, the ancient ideal of Ramarajya is undoubtedly one of true democracy in which the meanest citizen could be sure of swift justice without an elaborate and costly procedure.” He also emphasised that it meant respect for all religions: “My Hinduism teaches me to respect all religions. In this lies the secret of Ramarajya.”\n\nMadan Mohan Malviya, an educationist and a politician with the Indian National Congress was also a vociferous proponent of the philosophy of \"Bhagavad Gita\". He was the president of the Indian National Congress in the year 1909 and 1918. He was seen as a 'moderate' in the Congress and was also considered very close to Gandhi. He popularized the Sanskrit phrase \"Satyameva Jayate\" (Truth alone triumphs), which today is the national motto of the Republic of India. He founded the Benaras Hindu University in 1919 and became its first Vice-Chancellor.\n\nApart from Gandhi, revolutionary leader Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose referred to Vedanta and the \"Bhagavad Gita\" as sources of inspiration for the struggle against the British.\nSwami Vivekananda's teachings on universalism, his nationalist thoughts and his emphasis on social service and reform had all inspired Subhas Chandra Bose from his very young days. The fresh interpretation of India's ancient scriptures appealed immensely to Subhas. Hindu spirituality formed the essential part of his political and social thought through his adult life, although there was no sense of bigotry or orthodoxy in it. Subhas who called himself a socialist, believed that socialism in India owed its origins to Swami Vivekananda. As historian Leonard Gordan explains \"Inner religious explorations continued to be a part of his adult life. This set him apart from the slowly growing number of atheistic socialists and communists who dotted the Indian landscape.\" \"Hinduism was an essential part of his Indianess\". His strategy against the British also included the use of Hindu symbols and festivals. In 1925, while in Mandalay jail, he went on a hunger strike when Durga puja was not supported by prison authorities.\n\nAnother leader of prime importance in the ascent of Hindu nationalism was Dr Keshav Baliram Hedgewar of Nagpur. Hedgewar as a medical student in Calcutta had been part of the revolutionary activities of the Hindu Mahasabha, Anushilan Samiti and Jugantar. He was charged with sedition in 1921 by the British Administration and served a year in prison. He was briefly a member of Indian National Congress. In 1925, he left the Congress to form the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) with the help of Hindu Mahasabha Leader B. S. Moonje, Bapuji Soni, Gatate Ji etc., which would become the focal point of Hindu movements in Independent India. After the formation of the RSS too, Hedgewar was to take part in the Indian National Congress led movements against the British rule. He joined the Jungle Satyagraha agitation in 1931 and served a second term in prison. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh started by him became one of the most prominent Hindu organisation with its influence ranging in the social and political spheres of India. The RSS portrayed itself as a social movement rather than a political party, and did not play central role many of the Indian independence movement. However, the RSS emphatically rejected the Congress policy of cooperation with the Muslims. Subsequently, in 1934, the Congress banned its members from joining RSS, Hindu Mahasabha or Muslim League. He died in 1940.\n\nAfter M. S. Golwalkar became head of RSS in 1940. RSS didn't take part in many anti-British activities, as Golwalkar did not want to give the British any excuse to ban the RSS. After the Muslim League passed the Lahore Resolution demanding a separate Pakistan, the RSS campaigned for a Hindu nation, but stayed away from the independence struggle. When the British Government banned military drills and use of uniforms in non-official organizations, Golwalkar terminated the RSS military department. A number of RSS members had joined the Quit India Movement but not the naval revolt.\n\nThe Partition of India outraged many majority Hindu nationalist politicians and social groups. Savarkar and members of the Hindu Mahasabha were extremely critical of Mahatma Gandhi's leadership. They accused him of appeasing the Muslims. Some Hindu nationalists also blamed Gandhi for conceding Pakistan to the Muslim League via appeasement. Also, they were further inflamed when Gandhi conducted a fast-unto-death for the Indian government to give Rs. 550 million which were due to the Pakistan government, but were being held back due to the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947.\n\nAfter the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi by Nathuram Godse, the Sangh Parivar was plunged into distress when the RSS was accused of involvement in his murder. Along with the conspirators and the assassin, Vinayak Damodar Savarkar was also arrested. The court acquitted Savarkar, and the RSS was found be to completely unlinked with the conspirators. The Hindu Mahasabha, of which Godse was a member, lost membership and popularity. The effects of public outrage had a permanent effect on the Hindu Mahasabha, which is now a defunct Hindutva party.\n\nThe Bengali Hindu Homeland Movement refers to the movement of the Bengali Hindu people for the Partition of Bengal in 1947 to create a homeland for themselves within the Indian Union, in the wake of Muslim League's proposal and campaign to include the entire province of Bengal within Pakistan, which was to be a homeland for the Muslims of British India. The movement began in late 1946, especially after the Great Calcutta Killing and Noakhali genocide, gained significant momentum in April, 1947 and in the end met with success on 20 June 1947 when the legislators from the Hindu majority areas returned their verdict in favour of Partition and Bengal province was divided into West Bengal and East Pakistan.\n\nThe word \"Hindu\", throughout history, had been used as an inclusive description which lacked a definition and was used to refer to the native traditions and people of India. It was only in the late eighteenth century that the word \"Hindu\" came to be used extensively with religious connotation, while still being used as a synecdoche describing the indigenous traditions.\n\nSavarkar was one of the first in the twentieth century to attempt a definitive description of the term \"Hindu\" in terms of what he called \"Hindutva\" meaning Hinduness. The coinage of the term \"Hindutva\" was an attempt by Savarkar who was an atheist and a rationalist, to de-link it from any religious connotations that had become attached to it. He defined the word Hindu as: \"He who considers India as both his Fatherland and Holyland\". He thus defined Hindutva (\"Hindu-ness\") or Hindu as different from Hinduism. This definition kept the Abrahamic religions (Judaism, Christianity and Islam) outside its ambit and considered only native religious denominations as Hindu. \n\nThis distinction was emphasised on the basis of territorial loyalty rather than on the religious practices. In this book that was written in the backdrop of the Khilafat Movement and the subsequent Malabar Rebellion, Savarkar wrote \"Their [Muslims' and Christians'] holy land is far off in Arabia or Palestine. Their mythology and Godmen, ideas and heroes are not the children of this soil. Consequently, their names and their outlook smack of foreign origin. Their love is divided\".\n\nSavarkar, also defined the concept of Hindu Rashtra (translated as \"Hindu polity\"). The concept of Hindu Polity called for the protection of Hindu people and their culture and emphasised that political and economic systems should be based on native thought rather than on the concepts borrowed from the West.\n\nMookerjee was the founder of the Nationalist Bharatiya Jana Sangh party, the precursor of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Mookerjee was firmly against Nehru's invitation to the Pakistani PM, and their joint pact to establish minority commissions and guarantee minority rights in both countries. He wanted to hold Pakistan directly responsible for the terrible influx of millions of Hindu refugees from East Pakistan, who had left the state fearing religious suppression and violence aided by the state.\n\nAfter consultation with Shri Golwalkar Guruji of RSS, Mookerjee founded Bharatiya Jana Sangh on 21st Oct. 1951 at Delhi and he became the first President of it. The BJS was ideologically close to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and widely considered the political arm of Hindu Nationalism. It was opposed to appeasement of India's Muslims. The BJS also favored a uniform civil code governing personal law matters for both Hindus and Muslims, wanted to ban cow slaughter and end the special status given to the Muslim-majority state of Jammu and Kashmir. The BJS founded the Hindutva agenda which became the wider political expression of India's Hindu majority.\n\nMookerjee opposed the Indian National Congress's decision to grant Kashmir a special status with its own flag and Prime Minister. According to Congress's decision, no one, including the President of India could enter into Kashmir without the permission of Kashmir's Prime Minister. In opposition to this decision, he entered Kashmir on 11 May 1953. Thereafter, he was arrested and jailed in a dilapidated house. Syama Prasad had suffered from dry pleurisy and coronary troubles, and was taken to hospital one and a half months after his arrest due to complications arising from the same. He was administered penicillin despite having informed the doctor-in-charge of his allergy to penicillin, and he died on 23 June 1953. Mookherjee's martyrdom later compelled Nehru to remove Permit system, post of \"Sadar-e-Riayasat\" and of Prime Minister of Jammu & Kashmir.\n\nAlong with Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Mukherjee is considered the godfather of Hindu nationalism in India, especially the Hindutva movement. Though Mukherjee was not associated with RSS, he is widely revered by members and supporters of the RSS and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad.\n\nM. S. Golwalkar, the second head of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), was to further this non-religious, territorial loyalty based definition of \"Hindu\" in his book \"Bunch of Thoughts\". Hindutva and Hindu Rashtra would form the basis of Golwalkar's ideology and that of the RSS.\n\nWhile emphasising on religious pluralism, Golwalkar believed that Semitic monotheism and exclusivism were incompatible with and against the native Hindu culture. He wrote: He added: \n\nHe further would echo the views of Savarkar on territorial loyalty, but with a degree of inclusiveness, when he wrote \"So, all that is expected of our Muslim and Christian co-citizens is the shedding of the notions of their being 'religious minorities' as also their foreign mental complexion and merging themselves in the common national stream of this soil.\"\n\nGolwalkar nominated for the post of General Secretary in the General Election of Hindu Mahasabha in 1939, but Golwalkar faced defeat and he left Hindu Mahasabha with quick decision, he decided to maintain distance from Hindu Mahasabha.\n\n1940-1946 Golwalkar maintained distance with Hindu Mahasabha and boycotted every meeting and events in which Hindu Mahasabha was participating. Golwalkar instructed Swayam Sewaks not to join Politics, but suddenly in 1946, Golwalkar issued a statement to Swayam Sewaks and urged to participate in the National Elections from Hindu Mahasabha. Later, Savarkar distributed most of the election ticket to RSS's Swayam Sewaks. Everything was going fine, but on the very next day of ending nomination date, Golwalkar isseud new statement that \"We had a successful talk with Gandhi Ji, Gandhi Ji assured us that partition would not happen. So we will not oppose Gandhi Ji and Congress, we will not participate in the Elections.\" All the Swayam Sewaks were asked to surrender their nominations, as all were nominated from Hindu Mahasabha. Due to this biggest back-step by the chief of RSS, Hindu Mahasabha was unable to participate in the National Elections on the major level.\n\nLater, in the Parliament of 1946, the Proposal of Partition of India was passed with 157 votes of Congress, Muslim League and Communist Party of India. Hindu Mahasabha won 13 seats and Ram Rajya Parishad won 4 seats, were not sufficient to oppose the Bill of Partition of India.\n\nAfter the assassination of Gandhi, Golwalkar and Hindu Mahasabha's senior leaders such as Shyama Prasad Mukharji founded a new political party as Jan-Sangh, many of Hindu Mahasabha members joined Jan-Sangh.\n\nDeendayal Upadhyaya, another RSS ideologue, presented the Integral Humanism as the political philosophy of the erstwhile Bharatiya Jana Sangh in the form of four lectures delivered in Bombay on 22–25 April 1965 as an attempt to offer a third way, rejecting both communism and capitalism as the means for socio-economic emancipation.\n\nLater thinkers of the RSS, like H. V. Sheshadri and K. S. Rao, were to emphasise on the non-theocratic nature of the word \"Hindu Rashtra\", which they believed was often inadequately translated, ill interpreted and wrongly stereotyped as a theocratic state. In a book, H. V. Sheshadri, the senior leader of the RSS writes \"As Hindu Rashtra is not a religious concept, it is also not a political concept. It is generally misinterpreted as a theocratic state or a religious Hindu state. Nation (Rashtra) and State (Rajya) are entirely different and should never be mixed up. State is purely a political concept. The State changes as the political authority shifts from person to person or party to party. But the people in the Nation remain the same. They would maintain that the concept of Hindu Rashtra is in complete agreement with the principles of secularism and democracy.\n\nThe concept of \"'Hindutva\" is continued to be espoused by the organisations like the RSS and political parties like the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). But the definition does not have the same rigidity with respect to the concept of \"holy land\" laid down by Savarkar, and stresses on inclusivism and patriotism. BJP leader and the then leader of opposition, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, in 1998, articulated the concept of \"holy land\" in Hindutva as follows: \"Mecca can continue to be holy for the Muslims but India should be holier than the holy for them. You can go to a mosque and offer namaz, you can keep the roza. We have no problem. But if you have to choose between Mecca or Islam and India you must choose India. All the Muslims should have this feeling: we will live and die only for this country.\"\n\nIn a 1995 landmark judgment, the Supreme Court of India observed that \"Ordinarily, Hindutva is understood as a way of life or a state of mind and is not to be equated with or understood as religious Hindu fundamentalism. A Hindu may embrace a non-Hindu religion without ceasing to be a Hindu and since the Hindu is disposed to think synthetically and to regard other forms of worship, strange gods and divergent doctrines as inadequate rather than wrong or objectionable, he tends to believe that the highest divine powers complement each other for the well-being of the world and mankind.\"\n\nThe Somnath temple is an ancient temple at Prabhas Patan in the coastal Indian province of Gujarat, which had been destroyed several times by the Muslim foreign invaders, starting with Mahmud Ghaznavi in 1025 AD. The last of such destructions took place in 1706 AD when Prince Mohammad Azam carried out the orders of Mughal ruler Aurangzeb to destroy the temple of Somnath beyond possible repair. A small mosque was put in its place.\n\nBefore Independence, Prabhas Patan where Somnath is located was part of the Junagadh State, ruled by the Nawab of Junagadh. On the eve of Independence the Nawab announced the accession of Junagadh, which had over 80% Hindu population, to Pakistan. The people of Junagadh rose in revolt and set up a parallel government under Gandhian leader and independence fighter, Samaldas Gandhi. The Nawab, unable to resist the popular pressure, bowed out and escaped to Pakistan. The provincial government under Samaldas Gandhi formally asked Government of India to take over. The Deputy Prime Minister of India, Sardar Patel came to Junagadh on 12 November 1947 to direct the occupation of the state by the Indian army and at the same time ordered the reconstruction of the Somnath temple.\n\nWhen Sardar Patel, K. M. Munshi and other leaders of the Congress went to Gandhiji with the proposal of reconstructing the Somnath temple, Gandhiji blessed the move, but suggested that the funds for the construction should be collected from the public and the temple should not be funded by the state. He expressed that he was proud to associate himself to the project of renovation of the temple But soon both Gandhiji and Sardar Patel died and the task of reconstruction of the temple was now continued under the leadership of K. M. Munshi, who was the Minister for Food and Civil, supplies in the Nehru Government.\n\nThe ruins were pulled down in October 1950 and the mosque was moved to a different location. In May 1951, Rajendra Prasad, the first President of the Republic of India, invited by K. M. Munshi, performed the installation ceremony for the temple. Rajendra Prasad said in his address, \"It is my view that the reconstruction of the Somnath Temple will be complete on that day when not only a magnificent edifice will arise on this foundation, but the mansion of India's prosperity will be really that prosperity of which the ancient temple of Somnath was a symbol.\" He added \"The Somnath temple signifies that the power of reconstruction is always greater than the power of destruction.\"\n\nThis episode created a rift between the President and the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, who was afraid that the reconstruction of the temple might be an attempt at \"Hindu revivalism\", a claim that was spread by a \"whispering campaign\" at that time. Nehru was not in favour of the president Rajendra Prasad and Union Minister K. M. Munshi attending the ceremony, as he felt that a secular state must not associate itself with religious rituals.\n\nThe Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, which was started in 1925, had grown as a huge organisation by the end of British rule in India. But the assassination of Gandhi and a subsequent ban on the organisation plunged it into distress. The ban was revoked when it was absolved of the charges and it led to the resumption of its activities.\n\nThe 1960s saw the volunteers of the RSS join the different social and political movements. Movements that saw a large presence of volunteers included the Bhoodan, a land reform movement led by prominent Gandhian Vinoba Bhave and the Sarvodaya led by another Gandhian Jayaprakash Narayan. RSS supported trade union, the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh and political party Bharatiya Jana Sangh also grew into considerable prominence by the end of the decade.\n\nAnother prominent development was the formation of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), an organisation of Hindu religious leaders, supported by the RSS, with the aim of uniting the various Hindu religious denominations and to usher social reform. The first VHP meeting at Mumbai was attended among others by all the Shankaracharyas, Jain leaders, Sikh leader Master Tara Singh Malhotra, the Dalai Lama and contemporary Hindu leaders like Swami Chinmayananda. From its initial years, the VHP led a concerted attack on the social evils of untouchability and casteism while launching social welfare programmes in the areas of education and health care, especially for the Scheduled Castes, backward classes and the tribals.\n\nThe organisations started and supported by the RSS volunteers came to be known collectively as the Sangh Parivar. Next few decades saw a steady growth of the influence of the Sangh Parivar in the social and political space of India.\n\nThe Ayodhya dispute (, ) is a political, historical and socio-religious debate in India, centred on a plot of land in the city of Ayodhya, located in Faizabad district, Uttar Pradesh. The main issues revolve around access to a site traditionally regarded as the birthplace of the Hindu deity Rama, the history and location of the Babri Mosque at the site, and whether a previous Hindu temple was demolished or modified to create the mosque.\n\nBengali Hindu homeland, commonly referred as Bangabhumi (, meaning the land of Bengal) and Bir Bango (), is a separatist movement to create a Hindu country using southwestern Bangladesh, envisioned by Banga Sena of Bangladesh.\n\nPanun Kashmir (Kashmiri: पनुन कश्मीर (Devanagari), پنون کشمیر (Nastaleeq)) is an organisation of displaced Kashmiri Pandits (Kashmiri Hindus) founded in December 1990 in Jammu, in order to demand that a separate homeland for Kashmir's Hindu population be carved out of the overwhelmingly Muslim Valley of Kashmir. Almost the entire Pandit population was expelled from Kashmir in 1990 by separatist militants for their religion\n\nGhar Wapsi (, meaning \"Home Coming\") is a series of re-conversion exercises organised by Vishva Hindu Parishad and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh to re-convert non-Hindus to Hinduism. The \"Indian Express\" reported that Scheduled Caste Manjhi families demanded better facilities along with education and healthcare before they reconverted.\n\nBahu Lao, Beti Bachao is a campaign by Bajrang Dal to encourage young Hindu men to marry non-Hindu girls and to create awareness among Hindu girls about Love Jihad. The movement has been successful in West Bengal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4109769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4109769", "title": "History of the Calvinist–Arminian debate", "text": "History of the Calvinist–Arminian debate\n\nThe history of the Calvinist–Arminian debate begins in early 17th century in the Netherlands with a Christian theological dispute between the followers of John Calvin and Jacobus Arminius, and continues today among some Protestants, particularly evangelicals. The debate centers around soteriology, or the study of salvation, and includes disputes about total depravity, predestination, and atonement. While the debate was given its Calvinist–Arminian form in the 17th century, issues central to the debate have been discussed in Christianity in some form since Augustine of Hippo's disputes with the Pelagians in the 5th century.\n\nThe Quinquarticular Controversy is a term used to refer to the purely theological Calvinist–Arminian clashes of the period 1609 to 1618, a time in which the debate had serious political overtones in the Netherlands. This controversy is the one that was addressed by the Dutch Reformed churches at the Synod of Dort in 1618–1619, a meeting to which Protestant representatives from Reformed churches in other countries were invited. Quinquarticular (i.e. \"having to do with five points\") refers to points of contention raised by the Arminian party in its publication of five articles of Remonstrance in 1610. These were rejected by the Synod in the Canons of Dort, the essence of which is commonly referred to as the Five Points of Calvinism.\n\nThe Controversy marked the transformation of the Arminian movement into a separate, persecuted church organization in the Netherlands. For Arminians it was the start of full persecution after the imposition of an edict, while for Calvinists it resulted in the settling in clear points of doctrine that were initiated by John Calvin and clarified by Theodore Beza. For Lutherans the controversies saw the ending of any possibility of unification with the Calvinists.\n\nPelagius was a British monk who journeyed to Rome around the year 400 A.D. and was appalled at the lax behavior within churches. To combat this lack of holiness, he preached a Gospel that began with justification through faith alone (it was actually Pelagius, not Luther, who first added the word \"alone\" to Paul's phrase) but finished through human effort and morality. He had read Augustine's \"Confessions\" and believed it to be a fatalistic and pessimistic view of human nature. Pelagius' followers, including Caelestius, went further than their teacher and removed justification through faith, setting up the morality- and works-based salvation known as Pelagianism. It should be mentioned that the only historical evidence of the teachings of Pelagius or his followers is found through the writings of his two strongest opponents — Augustine and Jerome.\n\nIn response to Pelagius, Augustine adopted a theological system that included not only original sin (which Pelagius denied), but also a form of predestination. Some authors maintain that Augustine taught the doctrines of limited atonement and of irresistible grace, later associated with classic Calvinism; however, others insist that Augustine's writings conflict with these doctrines. Critics maintain that part of Augustine's philosophy might have stemmed from his expertise in Greek philosophy, particularly Platonism and Manichaeism, which maintained a very high view of a man's spirit and very low view of a man's body. Against the Pelagian notion that man can do everything right, he taught that man could do little right. Thus, he reasoned, man cannot even accept the offer of salvation — it must be God who chooses for himself individuals to bring to salvation.\n\nA group of Italian bishops, led by Julian, defended the Pelagian view against the Augustinian concept of predestination but was rejected by the Council of Ephesus in 431. Later a monastic movement in Southern Gaul (modern-day France) also sought to explain predestination in light of God's foreknowledge, but a flurry of writings from Augustine (\"Grace and Free Will,\" \"Correction and Grace,\" \"The Predestination of the Saints\" and \"The Gift of Perseverance\") helped maintain the papal authority of his doctrines.\n\nAfter the death of Augustine, a more moderate form of Pelagianism persisted, which claimed that man's faith was an act of free will unassisted by previous internal grace. The Second Council of Orange (529) was convened to address whether this moderate form of semi-Pelagianism could be affirmed, or if the doctrines of Augustine were to be affirmed.\n\nThe determination of the Council could be considered \"semi-Augustinian\". It defined that faith, though a free act, resulted even in its beginnings from the grace of God, enlightening the human mind and enabling belief. However, it also denied strict predestination, stating, \"We not only do not believe that any are foreordained to evil by the power of God, but even state with utter abhorrence that if there are those who want to believe so evil a thing, they are anathema.\" The document received papal sanction.\n\nCalvinist Reformers used the Council's canons to demonstrate that their formulations of original sin and depravity had already been taught much earlier in the church. Arminian theologians also refer to the Council of Orange as a historical document that strongly affirms man's depravity and God's prevenient grace but does not present grace as irresistible or adhere to a strictly Augustinian view of predestination.\n\nAugustine's teaching on divine grace was considered a touchstone of orthodoxy within the western church throughout the Middle Ages. Nevertheless, within an Augustinian context, theologians continued to debate the precise nature of God and man’s participation in salvation, as well as attempting to work out a place for the church’s emerging system of sacraments in the overall scheme of salvation.\n\nThomas Aquinas, the most influential Catholic theologian of the Middle Ages, taught that, from man’s fallen state, there were three steps to salvation:\n\nAquinas believed that by this system, he had reconciled Ephesians 2:8 (\"By grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God\") and James 2:20 (\"faith without works is dead\") and 2:24 (\"by works a man is justified and not by faith only\"), and had provided an exposition of the Bible's teaching on salvation compatible with Augustine's teachings.\n\nA second stream of medieval thought, commonly referred to as the Ockhamists after William of Ockham and also including Duns Scotus and Gabriel Biel rejected Aquinas’ system as destroying man’s free will. The Ockhamists argued that if a man loved God simply because of \"infused grace\", then man did not love God freely. They argued that before a man received an infusion of grace, man must do his best in a state of nature (i.e. based on man’s reason and inborn moral sense). They argued that just as God awards eternal life on the basis of man’s condign merit for doing his best to do good works after receiving faith as a gift from God, so too, the original infusion of grace was given to man on the basis of \"congruent merit\", a reward for man’s doing his best in a state of nature. (Unlike condign merit, which is fully deserved by man, congruent merit is not fully deserved, and includes a measure of grace on God's part. Congruent merit is therefore also sometimes called \"semimerit\". According to the Ockhamists, a gracious God awards an individual with congruent merit when he or she does the best that he or she is able to do.)\n\nAquinas’ followers, commonly referred to as the Thomists, accused the Ockhamists of Pelagianism for basing the infusion of grace on man’s works. The Ockhamists defended themselves from charges of Pelagianism by arguing that, in the Ockhamist system, God was not bound to award the infusion of grace on the basis of congruent merit; rather, God’s decision to award the infusion of grace on the basis of congruent merit was an entirely gracious act on God’s part.\n\nMartin Luther's condemnation of \"justification by works\" clearly condemned Ockhamism. Some proponents of ecumenism argue that the Thomist view of salvation is not opposed to Luther’s view of grace, and, since Ockhamism was rejected as Semipelagian by the Catholic Church at the Council of Trent, theology of salvation need not pose a bar to Protestant-Catholic reunion. (The major streams of modern Catholic thought on the theology of salvation are Thomism and Molinism, a theology developed by Jesuit theologian Luis Molina in the 16th century and also held today by some Protestants such as William Lane Craig and Alvin Plantinga.)\n\nHowever, since the Catholic Church’s rejection of Jansenism in the bull \"Unigenitus\" (1713), it has been clear that Calvinism could not be accommodated within Catholicism. Arminianism, on the other hand, while it might not square entirely with Catholic theologies of salvation, probably could be accommodated within the Catholic Church, a fact which Arminianism’s Protestant opponents have often pointed out. (Augustus Toplady, for example, famously claimed that Arminianism was the \"Road to Rome.\")\n\nMartin Luther was an Augustinian monk in Erfurt. In his \"Disputation Against Scholastic Theology\" of 4 September 1517, Luther entered into the medieval debate between the Thomists and the Ockhamists by attacking the Ockhamist position and arguing that man by nature lacks the ability to do good that the Ockhamists asserted he had (and thus denying that man could do anything to deserve congruent merit). Modern scholars disagree about whether Luther in fact intended to criticize all scholastics in this \"Disputation\" or if he was concerned only with the Ockhamists. Arguing in favor of a broader interpretation is the fact that Luther went on to criticize the use of Aristotle in theology (Aristotle was the basis of Thomist as well as Ockhamist theology). If this is the case, it is likely that Luther saw Aquinas' \"fides caritate formata\" as merely a more cautious form of Pelagianism (or as Semipelagianism).\n\nLuther continued to defend these views. In 1520, Pope Leo X issued the papal bull \"Exsurge Domine\", which condemned a position which Luther had maintained at the 1518 Heidelberg Disputation, namely that \"After the Fall free will is something in name only and when it does what is in it, it sins mortally.\" Luther subsequently defended the proposition in his \"Defense and Explanation of All the Articles Unjustly Condemned by the Roman Bull of Leo X\" (1520), in the process stating that \"free will is really a fiction...with no reality, because it is in no man's power to plan any evil or good. As the article of Wycliffe, condemned at Constance, correctly teaches: everything takes place by absolute necessity.\"\n\nDesiderius Erasmus of Rotterdam, though first sympathetic to Luther, reacted negatively to what he saw as Luther's determinism. In his \"De libero arbitrio diatribe sive collatio\" (\"A Disquisition on Freedom of the Will\") (1524), Erasmus caricatures the limitations of free will that he saw Luther espousing. Though at times in the Diatribe, Erasmus sounded like an Ockhamist, for the most part he attempted to espouse a middle course between grace and free will, attempting to avoid on the one hand the errors of the Pelagians and the Ockhamists, and on the other hand, the \"Manichaean\" error of Luther and other strict Augustinians.\n\nLuther responded with his \"De Servo Arbitrio\" (\"On the Bondage of the Will\") (1525) in which he attacked Erasmus vehemently and argued that man was not free to do good. Rather, man's fallen nature is in bondage to sin and to Satan and man can only do evil. The only way an individual can be saved is if God freely chooses to give that person the gift of faith. Luther's position in \"On the Bondage of the Will\" became the position adopted by the Protestant movement.\n\nJacobus Arminius enrolled at Leiden University, and after five years of education traveled in the early 1580s to study in Geneva. Theodore Beza was the chairman of theology at the university there. Beza later defended Arminius by saying \"let it be known to you that from the time Arminius returned to us from Basel, his life and learning both have so approved themselves to us, that we hope the best of him in every respect…\" In late 1587, at the age of 28, Arminius returned to Amsterdam to fulfill his desire to be a pastor.\n\nArminius' entry into the predestination debate in Amsterdam was two years after his return, when he was asked by city officials to refute a modified form of Beza's Lapsarianism. According to historic tradition, Arminius' study of the Scriptures led him to the conclusion that the Bible did not support Calvinism. Other scholars believe that Arminius never accepted Beza's views, even while a student at Geneva. Arminius avoided adding to the controversy apart from two incidents regarding sermons on Romans 7 and Romans 9.\n\nWhen Arminius received his doctorate and professorship of theology at Leiden in 1603, the debate over Calvinism came back to life. Conflicts over predestination had appeared early in the Dutch Reformed Church, but \"these had been of a local nature, occurring between two fellow ministers, for instance, but since the appointment of Jacobus Arminius as a professor at Leyden University (1603) the strife had moved to the place where the education of future ministers took place.\"\n\nArminius taught that Calvinist predestination and unconditional election made God the author of evil. Instead, Arminius insisted, God's election was an election \"of believers\" and therefore was \"conditioned on faith\". Furthermore, Arminius argued, God's exhaustive foreknowledge did not require a doctrine of determinism.\n\nArminius and his followers believed that a national synod should confer, to win tolerance for their views. His opponents in the Dutch Reformed Church maintained the authority of local synods and denied the necessity of a national convention. When the States of Holland called together the parties, Arminius's opponents, led by his colleague Franciscus Gomarus, accused him not only of the teaching of the doctrines characteristic of Arminianism as it would become (see below), but also of errors on the authority of Scripture, the Trinity, original sin, and works salvation. These charges Arminius denied, citing agreement with both Calvin and Scripture.\n\nArminius was acquitted of any doctrinal error. He then accepted an invitation to a \"friendly conference\" with Gomarus but his health caused the conference to end prematurely. Two months later, on 19 October 1609, Jacobus Arminius died.\n\nAfter the death of Arminius, the Hague court chaplain, Johannes Wtenbogaert, one of the professor's followers \"who dogmatically and theologically was on one line with him, but who in the field of Church politics was a much more radical supporter of state influence championed his cause. This was seen as a betrayal on Gomarus' side, for earlier in his career (as a minister of Utrecht) Wtenbogaert \"had resisted state influence with all his might\".\n\nGradually Arminian-minded candidates for ordination into the ministry ran into ever greater difficulties. In their classes examinations, not only was subscription to the Dutch Confession and the Heidelberg Catechism demanded (which most were willing to do), \"but they were asked questions that were formulated in such a way that ambiguous answers were no longer possible.\"\n\nIn reaction to this growing pressure Wtenbogaert drew up a petition to the State General, called a \"Remonstrance\" in late 1609, early 1610. The \"Remonstrants\" highlighted five aspects of their theology: (1) election was conditional on foreseen faith; (2) Christ's atonement was unlimited in extent; (3) total depravity; (4) prevenient and resistible grace; and (5) the possibility of apostasy.\nForty-four ministers (mostly from the province of Holland) signed onto the Remonstrance, and on 14 January 1610 it was submitted to the Grand Pensionary, Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. (Due to this document the followers of Arminius became known as Remonstrants.) Oldenbarnevelt held onto the Remonstrance for an unusually long period and it was not until June 1610 that it was submitted in an altered form to the States of Holland. \"The States sent the five articles to all classes, forbidding them to go 'higher' in their examinations of ordinands than what was expressed in the articles. Needless to say, most classes did not take the slightest notice of this prohibition.\"\n\nIn another attempt to avoid a provincial synod, the States held The Hague Conference which lasted from 11 March to 20 May 1611 (with intermissions). It was at this conference that the delegates of Arminius' opponents submitted a response to the Remonstrance, called the Counter-Remonstrance (from which the name Contra- or Counter-Remonstrants was given them).\n\nLeading influences among Arminius' followers (now called Remonstrants) were Arminius' close friend and Roman Catholic-turned-Reformed pastor Jan Uytenbogaert, lawyer Hugo Grotius, and a scholar named Simon Episcopius. Due to the Remonstrants’ view of the supremacy of civil authorities over church matters, King James I of England came out in support of the Remonstrance (later he would join with their opponents against Conrad Vorstius).\n\nBehind the theological debate lay a political one between Prince Maurice, a strong military leader, and his former mentor Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, Grand Pensionary of Holland and personification of civil power. Maurice, who had Calvinist leanings, desired war with Holland's enemy, Roman Catholic Spain. Oldenbarnevelt, along with Arminius and his followers, desired peace.\n\nNumerous historians hold that many of the civic officials that sided with the Remonstrants did so because of their shared position of State supremacy over the Church and not because of other doctrinal ideas, saying \"the alliance between the regents and the Remonstrants during the years of the Truce is merely a coalition suited to the occasion, not the result of principal agreement...the magistracy of Delft was Counter-Remonstrant-minded, but in the States of Holland the city supported Oldenbarnevelt's policy regarding the convocation of a National Synod [to avoid calling one]. Incidentally, suspectedly Calvinistic opinions went together in Oldenbarnevelt's person. \"\n\nIn the years after Arminius' death, Maurice became convinced that Oldenbarnevelt (and by association, Arminians) had strong Catholic sympathies and were working to deliver Holland to Spain. As insurance, Maurice and his militia systematically and forcibly replaced Remonstrant magistrates with Calvinist ones. Thus, when the State General called for a synod in 1618, its outcome was predetermined. Oldenbarnevelt and Grotius were arrested, and the synod, held at Dordrecht (Dort), was convened.\nThis Synod of Dort included Calvinist representatives from Great Britain, Switzerland, Germany, and France, though Arminians were denied acceptance. Three Arminian delegates from Utrecht managed to gain seats, but were soon forcibly ejected and replaced with Calvinist alternates.\n\nThe Synod was a six versus six style of representation that lasted over six months with 154 meetings. The synod ultimately ruled that Arminius' teachings were heretical, reaffirming the Belgic Confession and Heidelberg Catechism as its orthodox statements of doctrine. One of the results of the synod was the formation of the Five points of Calvinism in direct response to the five articles of Remonstrance.\n\nRobert Picirilli gives this summary of the aftermath of the Synod of Dort:\n\nSomewhat later, after Maurice died, the Remonstrants were accorded toleration by the state and granted the freedom to follow their religion in peace, to build churches and schools. The Remonstrant Theological Seminary was instituted in Amsterdam, and Episcopius and Grotius were among its first professors. Today both the seminary and the church have shifted from their founders' theology.\n\nEarly Stuart society was religious, and religion at that time was political. King James I managed religious conflicts for most of the 1610s, but most Protestants maintained a fear of Catholicism. Though Arminians were Protestant, they were perceived as being less antagonistic to Catholicism than the Calvinists were. James I initially moved to keep them out of his realm, and supported the official position of the Synod of Dort.\n\nIn 1618, the Thirty Years' War began. It was a religious war, and many of James's subjects (particularly in Parliament) wanted his kingdom to go to war on the side of the king's son-in-law, Frederick V, Elector Palatine. James, however, preferred diplomacy. The loudest of the supporters for war were Puritans, a term presenting difficulties of definition but who doctrinally were in general orthodox Calvinists. Some scholars believe that the Arminians' support for the king's efforts to prevent war led to him promoting a number of them in order to balance out the Puritans. Others argue that these promotions were simply the result of meritocratic considerations: 'James promoted Arminians because they were scholarly, diligent and able men in their diocese.' In 1625, James I died, leaving the throne to his son, Charles I.\n\nCharles I supported the Arminians, and continued the trend of promoting them; Charles tended to promote only Arminians. The religious changes which Charles imposed on his subjects, in the form of Laudianism, were identified (rightly or wrongly) with Arminian theology. They brought him into direct conflict with the Scottish Presbyterian Calvinists of the Church of Scotland. The resulting Bishops' Wars were a trigger for the English Civil War, both of them part of the larger Wars of the Three Kingdoms which had complex roots, among which religious beliefs were a major factor.\n\nThe so-called \"four-point Calvinists\" claim that the doctrine of limited atonement is non-scriptural and that it was never endorsed by Calvin or the Synod of Dort.\n\nThe four-point Calvinists, like five-point Calvinists, accept a distinction initially made by Peter Lombard and subsequently adopted by Thomas Aquinas that the atonement was sufficient for the whole world but efficient only to the elect. Put another way, Christ's death atones for the whole world (it is sufficient to atone for the sins of the whole world), but the benefits of Christ's death are applied only to the elect (it is efficient only to atone for the sins of the elect).\n\nThe four-point Calvinists argue that Calvin adopted this position when he wrote that \"It is also a fact, without controversy, that Christ came to atone for the sins 'of the whole world.'\" They also believe that the four-point position was endorsed by the Synod of Dort under Article 3 of the Second Main Point of Doctrine where the synod proclaimed that \"This death of God's Son is the only and entirely complete sacrifice and satisfaction for sins; it is of infinite value and worth, more than sufficient to atone for the sins of the whole world.\"\n\nThis is the position which the leader of the English Presbyterians, Richard Baxter, asserted in his famous controversy with the leader of the English Congregationalists, John Owen.\n\nThese theological issues played a divisive part in the early history of Methodism in the 18th century. Heated discussions on Arminianism took place between Methodist ministers John Wesley and George Whitefield. From 1740 Wesley broke with Calvinism. His position caused initially the rupture with the Welsh Calvinistic Methodists under Howell Harris in 1742–3; and then the creation of the Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion in 1756, about the same time when Wesley broke with James Hervey. In the 1770s a very sharp debate occurred between Wesley and Augustus Montague Toplady.\n\nWesley was a champion of the teaching of Arminius, defending his soteriology in a periodical entitled \"The Arminian\" and writing articles such as \"Predestination Calmly Considered\". He defended Arminius against charges of semi-Pelaganism, holding strongly to beliefs in original sin and total depravity. At the same time, Wesley attacked the determinism that he claimed characterized unconditional election and maintained a belief in the ability to lose salvation. Whitefield debated Wesley on every point (except for their agreement on total depravity) but did not introduce any additional elements into the Calvinists' conclusions set forth at Westminster.\n\nTo this day, Methodism and its offshoots of the denominations include: Pentecostals, Seventh-day Adventists and Third Wave along with General Baptists usually are the ones to subscribe to Arminianism, while Presbyterians, Reformed Churches, Reformed Baptists, and others subscribe to Calvinism. Largely because of its origins in Germany and Scandinavia rather than the British Isles or Holland, Lutheranism was uninvolved in the dispute, and official Lutheran doctrine does not fully support either group, preferring instead its own doctrinal formulations about the relation of human freedom to divine sovereignty. This is also true of Primitive Baptist belief.\n\nRestorationist fellowships are customarily freewill in their soteriology. Within this trend, Churches of Christ are prone to cite Biblical passages in support of the view while often intensely locked in contention with Presbyterians and (usually Calvinistic) Baptists. The doctrinal components, in small towns particularly in the United States, often ally the Churches of Christ with their Methodist neighbors on opposition to \"once-saved-always-saved\" doctrine despite the similarity between Churches of Christ and Baptists on immersion.\n\nPost-reformation Roman Catholicism has remained largely outside the debate, although Thomist and Molinist views continue within the church. Augustinian theodicy, including those elements wherein Calvin was influenced by Augustine of Hippo, continues to be the prevalent soteriology in Roman Catholicism. Also, Jansenism has been seen by many as very similar to Calvinist doctrine, and was condemned as such by the Catholic Church in the late 17th century.\n\nA Synod of Eastern Orthodox Churches was called in Jerusalem in 1672 to refute attempted encroachments of Protestant Calvinism. The Synod of Jerusalem (1672) also referred to as The Confession of Dositheus in 1672, strongly rejected Calvinistic formulations and named them heresy. In part, it stated,\n\nIn the same document, the synod renounced Calvin by name and pronounced an anathema upon anyone teaching that God predestined anyone to evil or Hell.\n\n"}
{"id": "33900852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33900852", "title": "Immutable truth", "text": "Immutable truth\n\nIn philosophy and logic, an immutable truth is an unchanging universal fact or reality that is not influenced by human opinion. According to positivism, observation and experience are the only ways for immutable truths to become fully realized or understood.\n\n"}
{"id": "38383652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38383652", "title": "Indrajala", "text": "Indrajala\n\nIndrajala (Sanskrit: इन्द्रजाल) is a Sanskrit word common to most Indian languages that means Indra's net, magic, deception, fraud, illusion, conjuring, jugglery, sorcery etc.\n\nIn Hinduism the first creator of \"maya\" in this universe was Indra. The term \"Indrajala\" was used instead of \"maya\" in the ancient days. Since Indra represents God and God’s creation of this universe can be considered a magical act, this whole world is \"Indrajala\" (a net of Indra), an illusion.\n\nIn a similar fashion, the human magician applies the magic called \"Indrajala\" in imitation of his divine forerunners, and thus spreads his net of \"maya\" over those he chooses as the object of his manipulations. He creates something before the eyes of the spectators that does not really exist, or only exist in the spectators’ minds as a result of his skill.\n\nIf one confines \"Indrajala\" to its stricter sense of illusory appearances created for the public, it is understandable that this activity was apt to become an image for the great \"illusion\" to hold ignorant mankind in its grasp. According to the Advaita philosophers there is no difference between \"avidya\" (\"ignorance\") and \"moha\" (\"delusion\") as factors that lead to human bondage.\n\nMagic and Religion sometimes go together. The most important source for the knowledge of Vedic magic is Atharvaveda. Those \"mantras\" of the Vedas that are meant for \"shanti\", for allaying fears and evils, for greater welfare and for extension of life, etc., are called \"pratyangiramantrah\" or \"atharvanah\", but those meant for harming others, i.e., \"abhichara\", are called \"angiramantrah\" or \"angirasah\".\n\nHindu belief contends that the fundamental power of Brahman)—which penetrates existence and is neutral by itself—can be used by qualified specialists for good or evil ends. To scare the enemy is the aim of Indrajala.\n\nKamandaka and the Puranas include \"Upeksha\", \"Maya\" and \"Indrajala\" as sub-methods of diplomacy. \"Indrajala\" is the use of stratagems for victory over the enemy and according to Kautilya it comes under \"Bheda\".\n\n"}
{"id": "981147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981147", "title": "Intellectual virtue", "text": "Intellectual virtue\n\nIntellectual virtues are qualities of mind and character that promote intellectual flourishing, critical thinking, and the pursuit of truth. They include: intellectual responsibility, perseverance, open-mindedness, empathy, integrity, intellectual courage, confidence in reason, love of truth, intellectual humility, imaginativeness, curiosity, fair-mindedness, and autonomy. So-called virtue responsibilists conceive of intellectual virtues primarily as acquired character traits, such as intellectual conscientiousness and love of knowledge. Virtue reliabilists, by contrast, think of intellectual virtues more in terms of well-functioning mental faculties such as perception, memory, and intuition. Intellectual virtues are studied extensively in both critical thinking and virtue epistemology.\n\nAristotle analyzed virtues into moral and intellectual virtues. In the \"Posterior Analytics\" and \"Nicomachean Ethics\" he identified five intellectual virtues as the five ways the soul arrives at truth by affirmation or denial. These are then separated into three classes:\n\nSubjacent intellectual virtues in Aristotle:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38807343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38807343", "title": "Ivan Focht", "text": "Ivan Focht\n\nIvan Focht (7 June 1927 – 20 October 1992) was a Croatian and Bosnian Jewish philosopher and mycologist.\n\nFocht was born in Sarajevo to a Jewish family on June 7, 1927. All members of his family have been killed during the Holocaust. He finished elementary and high school in Sarajevo. Focht graduated from the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Zagreb, after which he returned to Sarajevo where he was elected assistant at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Sarajevo. Shortly after he moved back to Zagreb where he lived for the rest of his life, until his death. Focht was philosopher of phenomenological orientation, who in the early works departed from the Marxist and psychological interpretations of art. Music is in his texts had ontological priority over all other arts. In the art of music, particularly that of Bach, Focht tried to uncover the importance of achieving pythagorean music. Bach's music, as interpreted by Focht, is not a mere reflection of the subject, nor a reflection of social reality, just as it is not an expression of human feelings, but the secret of life organized and tuned to the cosmic laws.\n\nFocht, beside the aesthetics, has published several important books about mushrooms. He was also one of the first thinkers and critics of science fiction in Croatia, considering that our age is the time of death of philosophy, or age of science and science fiction. Focht died in Zagreb on October 20, 1992, and was buried at the Mirogoj Cemetery.\n\n\n\n\n6. Neven Matočec & Ivan Focht (in English) On some autumnal discomycetes collected from Mt. Orjen, Montenegro 1982-1984, Mycologia Montenegrina 3(1): 63-85, (2001).\nAvailable from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/262105189_On_some_autumnal_discomycetes_collected_from_Mt._Orjen_Montenegro_1982-1984 [accessed Mar 22, 2015].\n\n"}
{"id": "15944381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15944381", "title": "Jacques Chevalier", "text": "Jacques Chevalier\n\nJacques Chevalier (13 March 1882 – 19 April 1962) was a French philosopher.\n\nChevalier was born in Cérilly, Allier, educated at the Ecole Normale Superieure and Oxford University and taught at the Faculty of Letters in Grenoble. He was a specialist of Plato and author of many books, mainly about the history of philosophy.\n\nA friend of Lord Halifax, he was also a Minister for education in 1941 under the Vichy Regime, and was as such the only member of the government to be present at the funeral of the philosopher Henri Bergson. \nA devout catholic, he attempted to eradicate the anti-religious feeling in educational circles and consequently closed the \"Ecoles Normales\", which had been created in each \"département\" by the François Guizot law of 1833 to prepare teachers for elementary classes, replacing them with \"Instituts de formation professionnelle\". The anti-clerical Collaborationists opposed him however, and he had to step down (he was replaced by the historian Jerôme Carcopino); his reform was eventually abolished and the \"Ecoles Normales\" were recreated.\n\n"}
{"id": "7451511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7451511", "title": "Jaggi Vasudev", "text": "Jaggi Vasudev\n\nJaggi Vasudev (born Mysore, 3 September 1957), popularly known as Sadhguru, is an Indian yogi, mystic and author. He founded the Isha Foundation, a non-profit organization which offers Yoga programs around the world and is involved in social outreach, education and environmental initiatives. His books have appeared in The New York Times Best Seller list in multiple categories like \"Health\", \"Religion, Spirituality and Faith\", and \"Advice, How-To & Miscellaneous\".\n\nSadhguru was conferred the Padma Vibhushan civilian award by the Government of India in 2017 in recognition of his contribution to the field of spiritualism.\n\nBorn in Mysore, Karnataka, India, Jaggi Vasudev was the youngest of four children – two boys and two girls. His father was an ophthalmologist with the Indian Railways and as a result, the family moved frequently. At the age of 10, he came in contact with Malladihalli Sri Raghavendra Swamiji who taught him a set of simple yoga asanas, the practice of which he regularly maintained. He states that \"without a single day's break, this simple yoga that was taught to me kept happening and led to a much deeper experience later.\"\n\nAfter his schooling at Demonstration School and Mahajana Pre-University College, Mysore in 1973, he graduated from the University of Mysore with a bachelor's degree in English literature. During his college years, he developed an interest in travel and motorcycles.\n\nAt the age of 25 on 23 September 1982, he rode up Chamundi Hill and sat on a rock, where he had a spiritual experience. He describes his experience as follows:\nSix weeks after this experience, he left his business to his friend and travelled extensively in an effort to gain insight into his mystical experience. After about a year of meditation and travel, he decided to teach yoga to share his inner experience.\n\nIn 1983, he conducted his first yoga class with seven participants in Mysore. Over time, he began conducting yoga classes across Karnataka and Hyderabad traveling from class to class on his motorcycle. He lived off the produce of his poultry farm rental and refused payment for the classes. A usual practice of his was to donate the collections received from participants to a local charity on the last day of the class. These initial programs were the basic format on which the Isha Yoga classes were later built.\nJaggi Vasudev established the Isha Foundation, a non religious, non-profit organisation entirely run by volunteers. Isha Yoga Center near Coimbatore was founded in 1993, and hosts a series of programs to heighten self-awareness through Yoga. The foundation works in tandem with International bodies like the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.\n\nAfter the establishment of the ashram, Jaggi Vasudev began conducting regular yoga programs at the Isha Yoga Center, including a course for the Indian Hockey team in 1996. In 1997, he began conducting classes in the United States and in 1998, he began conducting yoga classes for life-term prisoners in Tamil Nadu prisons. From 2011, he began conducting programs with large-scale participation of up to 10,000 and 15,000 participants at once. These large-scale programs have been attended by over 75,000 people in total.\n\nThe programs are offered under the umbrella of Isha Yoga. The word Isha means \"the formless divine\". Isha yoga's flagship program is 'Inner Engineering', which introduces people to meditation and pranayama and the Shambhavi Mahamudra. He also conducts yoga classes for corporate leadership to introduce them to what he calls \"inclusive economics\", which he says introduces a sense of compassion and inclusiveness into today's economic scenario.\n\nHe also regularly conducts Mahasathsangs in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Here he gives talks, teaches meditation, and holds question and answer sessions with the audience. These Mahasathsangs are also used as platforms to encourage tree-planting activities as well. He also takes spiritual aspirants on annual yatras to Mount Kailash and the Himalayas. The Kailash Yatra led by him is among the largest groups to make the trip to Kailash, with 514 pilgrims attending the journey in 2010.\n\nJaggi Vasudev organises all-night Mahashivarathri celebrations every year at the Isha Yoga Center. It's estimated that these celebrations were attended by as many as 800,000 people in 2013. The night includes music, dance, and guided meditation. In 2013, performers included Carnatic singer Aruna Sairam, dancer Anita Ratnam, and the band The Raghu Dixit Project.\n\nIn March 2005, construction of the Isha Institute of Inner-sciences (III) in McMinnville, Tennessee, USA was begun and was completed 6 months later. Jaggi Vasudev had decided to establish III as a Center for spiritual growth in the Western Hemisphere. On 7 November 2008, he consecrated the Mahima Hall, a 39,000 square foot, free-standing meditation hall at the III. Mahima Hall is the largest meditation hall in the Western Hemisphere. On 30 January 2010, he consecrated the Linga Bhairavi, a representation of the feminine aspects of the divine at the Isha Yoga Center.\n\nIn 1994, Jaggi Vasudev conducted the first program in the premises of the newly established Isha Yoga Center, described the Dhyanalinga. The Dhyanalinga is a yogic temple and a space for meditation, the consecration of which, Jaggi Vasudev stated was his life's mission entrusted to him by his guru. In 1998, the stone edifice of the linga was ordered and arrived at the ashram. After three years of work, the Dhyanalinga was completed on 23 June 1999 and opened to the public on 23 November.\n\nThe Dhyanalinga offers a meditative space that does not ascribe to any particular faith or belief system. A 76-foot dome, constructed using bricks and stabilised mud mortar without steel or concrete, covers the sanctum sanctorum. The lingam is 13 feet and 9 inches in height and made of black granite. The Sarva Dharma Sthamba, located at the front entrance, functions as an icon of singularity, with the sculptural reliefs and symbols of Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Sikhism, Jainism, Taoism, Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Buddhism, and Shinto inscribed as a universal welcome.\n\nOn 24 June 2013, he conducted a multi-religious session titled, \"Interfaith Deliberations on the Universality of Religions\" at the Isha Yoga Center, which was attended by representatives of various religions, and coincided with the fourteenth anniversary celebrations of the Dhyanalinga.\n\nJaggi Vasudev designed the 112-foot statue of Adiyogi, which is located at the Isha Yoga Center. It was inaugurated on Mahashivaratri, 24 February 2017, by the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi.\nThe Adiyogi statue depicts Shiva as the first yogi or Adiyogi, and first Guru or Adi Guru, who offered yoga to humanity. The statue was built by the Isha Foundation using 20,000 individual iron plates supplied by the Steel Authority of India and weighs around 500 tonnes (490 long tons; 550 short tons). The Adiyogi Shiva Statue has been recognized as the \"Largest Bust Sculpture\" by Guinness World Records. A consecrated Shivalinga called \"Yogeshwar Linga\" is placed in front of the Adiyogi Shiva statue.\n\nJaggi Vasudev spoke at the United Nations Millennium World Peace Summit in 2000, the World Economic Forum in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009.\n\nIn 2012, he was voted among the hundred most powerful Indians for his contribution in the field of environmental protection and for encouraging public participation in ecological issues. He was also a participant in the 2006 documentary film . He has been involved in one-on-one interactions as part of the \"In Conversations With the Mystic.\"\n\nIn 2012, he initiated the Isha Insight program, which focuses on helping small and medium businesses scale up their business activities. The program was conducted by Ram Charan with KV Kamath, Grandhi Mallikarjuna Rao, Shankar Annaswamy, Vellayan Subbiah and Pramod Chaudhari also active in the program. In an interview with Forbes magazine, speaking about the motivation behind setting up the program, he said, \"While speaking at economic summits and to leaders in India and outside, I have noticed that the most serious issue people have is a lack of insight into what they are doing, or what they could do. That's how we ended up creating this programme called Insight.\"\n\nIn 2017, he spoke at the Global Landscapes Forum in Bonn, Germany, where he was also interviewed by Erik Solheim, head of United Nations Environment Programme.\n\nJaggi Vasudev is the author of several books, including \"\". They have been translated into a number of other languages including Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, and Kannada.\n\n"}
{"id": "35990187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35990187", "title": "Jean Henri van Swinden", "text": "Jean Henri van Swinden\n\nJean Henri van Swinden (The Hague, 8 June 1746 – Amsterdam, 9 March 1823) was a Dutch mathematician and physicist who taught in Franeker and Amsterdam. \n\nHis parents were the lawyer Phillippe van Swinden and Marie Anne Tollosan. He was trained 1763-1766 at the University of Leiden, where he became doctor of philosophy on 12 June 1766 with the thesis \"Natural power of attraction\". He became professor at the University of Franeker the same year, where he continued to study and conduct research as well as teach. In 1776 he won a prize from the Académie Royale des Sciences along with Charles-Augustin de Coulomb for his work on earth's magnetic field, and the relationship between magnetism and electricity. A year later he won a prize from the \"Academie van Beieren\". His description of Eise Eisinga's planetarium in 1780 was later republished.\n\nIn 1785 he moved to Amsterdam where he became professor at the Athenaeum Illustre of Amsterdam. There he was instrumental in introducing a house numbering system (useful for the postal service) and in 1795 he directed the first census. In 1798 he led a commission to report on the state of the health of the inhabitants of Amsterdam, based on the results of the census. He was part of an international commission to determine the length of the meter, as a first step to introducing the metric system in the Netherlands. His lectures at Felix Meritis from 1777 onwards on this subject were bundled and published as \"Verhandeling over volmaakte maaten en gewigten\" in 1802.\n\nHis international good name led him to be appointed as representative during the French occupation. He was one of the founders appointed by Louis Bonaparte in 1808 for the Koninklijk Instituut van Wetenschappen along with Martinus van Marum, Martinus Stuart, and Jeronimo de Bosch.\n\nThe \"Van Swinden Laboratorium\", today the Nederlands Meetinstituut, was named after him in 1971 and several streets in Amsterdam are named after him. \n\n"}
{"id": "910547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910547", "title": "Jerome of Prague", "text": "Jerome of Prague\n\nJerome of Prague (\"Jeroným Pražský\" in Czech, 1379 in Prague, Kingdom of Bohemia in the Holy Roman Empire – 30 May 1416 in Konstanz, Bishopric of Constance in the Holy Roman Empire) was a Czech scholastic philosopher, theologian, reformer, and professor. Jerome was one of the chief followers of Jan Hus and was burned for heresy at the Council of Constance. He is often called Hieronymus the Latin form of his first name.\n\nJerome was born in Prague, Kingdom of Bohemia (now the Czech Republic) in 1379 and graduated from the Charles University of Prague in 1398. He later studied at Oxford University where he first became familiar with the reformist teachings of John Wycliffe. He was a philosopher, theologian, university professor, and church reformer who dedicated his life to eradicate those church doctrines and dogmas he found to be corrupt. He was constantly in and out of jail. His radical ideas eventually brought about his death by execution as a heretic to the church, but made him a martyr for the Protestant Reformation and followers of Jan Hus (known as Hussites).\n\nHe was well-educated and spent most of his life traveling, trying to incite religious reform in various cities. It was for his criticisms rather than heresy that he was martyred.\n\nJerome spent time teaching at the universities of Paris, Cologne, and Heidelberg, but was accused of heresy at all these universities and forced to return to Bohemia. He spent much of his life traveling about various universities, but frequently returned to Bohemia where he was virtually safe from any prosecution. He earned popular renown, as his rhetoric and oratory skills were acclaimed and often roused the public into demonstrations against the church, although they sometimes ended badly. He secured, in 1399, permission to travel. In 1401 he returned to Prague, but in 1402 visited England, where, at Oxford University, he copied out the \"Dialogus\" and \"Trialogus\" of John Wycliffe, and thus evinced his interest in Lollardry. He became an ardent and outspoken advocate of realism and, thereafter, of Wyclifism; charges of which were constantly getting him into trouble. In 1403 he went to Jerusalem, in 1405 to Paris. There he took his master's degree, but Jean Gerson drove him out. In 1406 he took the same degree at the University of Cologne, and a little later at the University of Heidelberg.\n\nHe was no safer in Prague, where he returned and where, in 1407, he took the same degree. In that year he returned to Oxford, but was again compelled to flee. During 1408 and 1409 he was in Prague, and there his pronounced Czech preferences aroused opposition to him in some quarters. Early in January 1410, he made a cautious speech in favour of Wycliffe's philosophical views, and this was cited against him at the Council of Constance four years later. In March 1410, a Papal Bull against Wycliffe's writings was issued, and on the charge of favouring them, Jerome was imprisoned in Vienna, but managed to escape to Moravia. For this he was excommunicated by the bishop of Kraków. Returned to Prague, he appeared publicly as the advocate of Hus. Popular legend attributes to Jerome leadership of a protest in which papal bulls were first strung around the neck of a prostitute in a cart and then carried to the pillory in Prague to be publicly burned, but the leader was actually Wok of Waldstein.\n\nJerome tended to teach radical ideas pertaining to Roman Catholic doctrine, namely that God’s teachings were directly accessible to a Christian without need for the church or church officials. He taught that one should obey the direct teachings of Jesus, even when they conflicted with those of the Catholic Church. He was largely a follower of the ideologies of both church reformers John Wyclif and Jan Hus. As his teachings were contrary to those of the Roman Catholic Church, he was constantly on the run from authorities. Hus, although much less disruptive in his approach, was a mentor for Jerome.\n\nJerome incited public demonstrations in Paris, Vienna, Prague, and everywhere in between; most of these demonstrations took place in cities with universities where Jerome taught. Teaching at universities allowed Jerome to reach a broad audience. In Kraków, he was publicly examined as to his acceptance of the forty-five articles which the enemies of Wyclif had made up from Wyclif's writings and which they asserted represented Wyclif's heretical teachings. Jerome declared that he rejected them in their general tenor.\n\nWhen, on 11 October 1414, Hus left for the Council of Constance, Jerome assured him that if needed, he would come to his assistance, contrary to the wishes of Hus. Hus was tricked into attending the Council of Constance by means of a letter promising immunity, and upon his arrival in the city he was arrested and imprisoned. Jerome kept his promise, even though Hus and other friends of Jerome warned him not to come. On 4 April 1415, he arrived at Constance. Predictably, he created a stir in the town.\n\nAs he had, unlike Hus, come without a safe-conduct, Jerome's friends persuaded him to return to Bohemia. But on his way back he was arrested in Hirschau on 20 April and taken to Sulzbach, where he was imprisoned, and was returned to Constance on 23 May. He was immediately arraigned before the council on the charge of fleeing a citation.\n\nHis condemnation was predetermined in consequence of his general acceptance of the views of Wyclif and his open admiration for Hus. Consequently, he did not have a fair hearing. The conditions of his imprisonment were so horrid that he fell seriously ill and so was induced to recant at public sessions of the council held on 11 and 23 September 1415. The words put into his mouth on these occasions made him renounce both Wyclif and Hus. The same physical weakness made him write in Bohemian letters to the king of Bohemia and to the University of Prague, which were declared to be entirely voluntary and to state his own opinions, in which he announced that he had become convinced that Hus had been rightfully burned for heresy. (Hus had been burned at the stake while Jerome was imprisoned.) However, the Council of Constance kept him imprisoned as they doubted his sincerity and wanted a more incriminating confession. On 23 May 1416, and on 26 May, he was put on trial by the Council. On the second day he withdrew his recantation, and on 30 May he was condemned and burned. In this way, Jerome became the first official martyr for the Hussite reform cause.\n"}
{"id": "2328979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328979", "title": "John Daido Loori", "text": "John Daido Loori\n\nJohn Daido Loori (June 14, 1931 – October 9, 2009) was a Zen Buddhist rōshi who served as the abbot of Zen Mountain Monastery and was the founder of the Mountains and Rivers Order and CEO of Dharma Communications. Daido Loori received shiho (dharma transmission) from Taizan Maezumi in 1986 and also received a Dendo Kyoshi certificate formally from the Soto school of Japan in 1994. In 1997, he received dharma transmission in the Harada-Yasutani and Inzan lineages of Rinzai Zen as well. In 1996 he gave dharma transmission to his student Bonnie Myotai Treace, in 1997 to Geoffrey Shugen Arnold, and in 2009 to Konrad Ryushin Marchaj. In addition to his role as a Zen Buddhist priest, Loori was an exhibited photographer and author of more than twenty books.\n\nIn October 2009, he stepped down as abbot citing health issues. Days later, Zen Mountain Monastery announced that his death was imminent. On October 9, 2009, at 7:30 a.m. he died of lung cancer in Mount Tremper, New York.\n\nJohn Daido Loori was born in Jersey City, New Jersey and raised Roman Catholic. As a child Loori loved photographing things, once using his family's bathroom as a makeshift dark room. He served in the U.S. Navy from 1947 to 1952. Later, after studying at Rutgers, he worked as a chemist in the food industry and led the American Civil Liberties Union in Orange and Sullivan Counties in New York. As an adult he distanced himself from Catholicism and explored a variety of other religions. Then, in 1971, he attended a workshop given by the photographer Minor White. Loori came to study photography under White until his death and also learned meditation from him. In 1972 Daido Loori began his formal Zen practice, studying in New York under Soen Nakagawa and then in California under Taizan Maezumi, Roshi.\n\nIn 1980 Loori purchased in New York which today serves as the site for Zen Mountain Monastery. In 1983 he was made a Zen priest by Maezumi and in 1986 was given shiho (or, dharma transmission) by him. In 1997, he received dharma transmission in the Harada-Yasutani and Inzan lineages of Rinzai Zen as well. According to author Richard Hughes, this made Loori \"one of three Western dharma-holders in both the Soto and Rinzai schools.\"\nLoori was a professional nature photographer, having once exhibited his work at the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan, New York. He has also held various other shows and workshops on photography, including positions at Naropa University starting in 1974 and the Synechia Arts Center located in Middletown, New York; his works have been published by Aperture and Time-Life. His book, \"Hearing with the Eye: Photographs from Point Lobos\", features Loori's abstract nature photography interwoven with commentary on \"Teachings of the Insentient\" by Eihei Dogen.\n\nLoori founded Dharma Communications as a way to communicate the dharma of the Mountains and Rivers Order. Dharma Communications publishes a Buddhist quarterly titled the Mountain Record, various audio-visual materials, and has also published several books by Daido Loori. According to Charles S. Prebish, Dharma Communications is \"one of the most efficient and successful publishers of Buddhist materials on the continent, and a place where practitioners can learn how to cultivate both mindfulness and compassion in front of a computer.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10071825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10071825", "title": "John of Mirecourt", "text": "John of Mirecourt\n\nJohn of Mirecourt, also known as \"Monachus Albus\", was a Cistercian scholastic philosopher of the fourteenth century, from Mirecourt, Lorraine. He was a follower of William of Ockham; he was censured by Pope Clement VI.\n\nVery little is known of the life of John of Mirecourt, but it seems that he was born at Mirecourt in Lorraine between 1310-1315. He lectured at the Cistercian College of St. Bernard in Paris, and rose to the height of his philosophical and theological fame around the year 1345. He is credited with writing a commentary on Peter Lombard's Sentences, and two subsequent apologies which were responses to various criticisms of his commentary. He wrote two versions of his commentary; the first of which was attacked by a Benedictine called Johannes Normanus. Mirecourt replied by issuing a \"Declaratio\" in which he explained the meanings behind his propositions. Nevertheless, acting upon the recommendation of the faculty of theology at the University of Paris, Robert of Bardis, the University chancellor, condemned 41 propositions that were drawn from Mirecourt's writings on the Sentences. Mirecourt responded to this condemnation by writing a second apology to no avail: he was censured in Paris by Pope Clement VI in 1347. After this censure, nothing further is known of him, including any approximation as to the date of his death. There is some speculation that scholarly jealousy and academic politics made up a portion of the motivation behind Mirecourt's censure; and as Mirecourt was not radical in all of his philosophical views, it is not unsubstantiated that his censure was in part the result of some ill-will from various of the nominalist factions.\n\nMirecourt reasoned that there are two kinds of certain knowledge: (1) 'the principle of non-contradiction,' and (2) 'the immediate intuition of one's existence'. The most undoubtable of all things that can be known fall to this first kind of knowledge, as well as all analytic judgements that are reducible to it. Mirecourt distinguishes between two kinds of evidence of these kinds of knowledge: (1) special and (2) natural. Special evidence comes from the principle of non-contradiction, and natural evidence is that which is gained empirically. Mirecourt thought natural evidence to be weaker than special evidence because he understood God to be both absolutely powerful and the producer of miracles (as taken to be some occurrence outside of what is otherwise empirically observable). \n\nIt is speculated that Mirecourt was censured due to his rigid views regarding the reliance of everything upon the will of God. Mirecourt held the view that anything physical or moral is wholly depended on the entirely free will of God. This was a controversial view because it held God responsible for willing not only all that is good, but also all that is not good. This stood in rather severe contradistinction to the commonly accepted view of Mirecourt's contemporaries which were centered on the premise of an all-good God. Mirecourt stated that some temptations cannot be overcome without a miracle from God. Such temptations included resisting the urge to have sexual relations with another man's wife. If this miracle is not given, Mirecourt argued that the action is then to be called neither adultery, nor a sin.\n\nMirecourt is most well known for his theories on the infinite. He was chiefly concerned with species and perfections. God possessed the highest degree of perfection on his scale; and all creatures were infinitely distant from him. Mirecourt held that it is impossible to measure perfections because of the infinite distance they have from God. Thus, all that can be known is that any species either exceeds, or is exceeded by, some other species in a scale of perfections.\n\nMirecourt is generally thought to be a nominalist, and is often thought of as being a follower of William Ockham. Mirecourt rejected the idea of an imperfect intuitive cognition, however, which is a considerable departure from Ockham. The two, though, are generally in accord, especially with respect to their epistemological views.\n\nBoth Mirecourt and Ockham describe abstractive and intuitive cognition in very similar ways: both men think of knowledge as starting with intuitive cognition. Both men also distinguish between judgement and simple apprehension. In addition, both assert a need for close connections between a cognition and its object.\n\nMirecourt was chiefly influenced by the philosophy of Nicholas of Autrecourt, William Ockham, and to a minimal degree, Gregory of Rimini, and perhaps even Thomas Bradwardine. Nearly all of the major figures of Mirecourt's day accepted the basic tenets of nominalism, to some degree, and Mirecourt was no different in this respect. He was particularly influenced by the radical nominalist views of Nicholaus of Autrecourt, who was forced to burn his writings in 1347.\n\n"}
{"id": "57198144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57198144", "title": "Joshua Parens", "text": "Joshua Parens\n\nJoshua S. Parens is an American philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Dallas. He is the dean of Braniff Graduate School of Liberal Arts. Parens is known for his expertise on Islamic and Jewish medieval philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5078010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5078010", "title": "Kevin Vanhoozer", "text": "Kevin Vanhoozer\n\nKevin Jon Vanhoozer (born March 10, 1957) is an American theologian and current Research Professor of Systematic Theology at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School (TEDS) in Deerfield, Illinois. Much of Vanhoozer's work focuses on systematic theology, hermeneutics, and postmodernism.\n\nVanhoozer received his M. Div. from Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia and a Ph.D. from Cambridge University where he studied under Nicholas Lash. His inter-disciplinary dissertation was titled \"Biblical Narrative in the Philosophy of Paul Ricoeur: A Study in Hermeneutics and Theology\" and was published in 1990 (reprint 2007) by Cambridge University Press ().\n\nHe joined the faculty of Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in 1986, but during two periods since has taught elsewhere. From 1990 to 1998, he was Senior Lecturer at New College, University of Edinburgh; from 2009 to 2012, he was Blanchard Professor of Theology at Wheaton College. He returned to TEDS in 2012.\n\nVanhoozer is the Senior Theological Mentor for the St. Augustine Fellowship of the Center for Pastor Theologians. He and his wife Sylvie have two daughters.\n\nVanhoozer has written several notable books, including \"The Drama of Doctrine: A Canonical-Linguistic Approach to Christian Theology\", which won the \"Christianity Today\" 2006 Book Award for best book in theology, and \"Faith Speaking Understanding: Performing the Drama of Doctrine\", which won the \"Christianity Today\" 2015 Book Award for best book in theology. He has edited several others, including the Gold Medallion Book Award winner \"Dictionary for Theological Interpretation of the Bible\", \"The Cambridge Companion to Postmodern Theology,\" and, with Charles A. Anderson and Michael J. Sleasman, \"Everyday Theology: How to Read Cultural Texts and Interpret Trends\".\n\nIn his work \"Is There a Meaning in this Text?\", Vanhoozer gives an in depth response to the challenges of Deconstructionism to biblical hermeneutics. Primarily, he engages the thinking of Jacques Derrida, but Stanley Fish and Richard Rorty also receive attention. Vanhoozer develops a theory of communicative action which relies strongly on the speech-act theory of J. L. Austin and in which a biblical text is seen as a communicative act involving \"locutions\" (the text itself), \"illocutions\" (the stance of the author to the locution, e.g. questioning, asserting, promising, etc.) and \"perlocutions\" (the goals that the author hopes to accomplish through the text).\n\nAmong the conclusions that Vanhoozer draws from viewing a text as a communicative act are the involvement of the author, text, and reader in the process of interpretation. The intended meaning of the author can be discerned to a certain degree from the text. The text (langue and parole) is not an arbitrary \"playground\" but part of a covenantal relationship between all people. As a result, the intention of the author can be adequately decoded. Another consequence is that the reader/interpreter has a responsibility to honor the intentions of the author and try to interpret the text in a way which re-creates the author's intended meaning. This responsibility is coupled with a freedom to determine the significance in the context of the interpreter's community.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47452245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47452245", "title": "León Dujovne", "text": "León Dujovne\n\nLeón Dujovne (15 November 1898 – 16 January 1984) was an Argentine writer, philosopher, essayist and journalist.\n\nDujovne was born to Ukrainian-Jewish parents in the village of Kurilovich, near the small town of Mohyliv-Podilskyi (Vinnytsia Oblast), on the border with Bessarabia (Moldova). At the age of one, his parents emigrated to Argentina; the family settled in Basavilbaso, Entre Ríos, one of the several Jewish colonies founded by Baron Maurice de Hirsch in the province.\n\n"}
{"id": "39119307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39119307", "title": "List of mudras (yoga)", "text": "List of mudras (yoga)\n\nThis is a list of Yoga mudras. In yoga, mudrās are used in conjunction with pranayama (yogic breathing exercises), generally while seated in Padmasana, Sukhasana or Vajrasana pose, to stimulate different parts of the body and mind, and to affect the flow of prana in the body.\n\nHasta mudras are conducive for meditation, and help in internalisation.\n\nMāna mudras are an important part of Kundalini yoga, and many are important meditation techniques in their own right.\n\nKaya mudras combine physical postures with breathing and concentration.\n\nBandha mudras are a type of mudra performed on the three diaphragms (respiratory, vocal, and pelvic). They are used in conjunction with holding the breath (\"kumbhaka\") during pranayama.\n\nAdhara mudras are performed on the pelvic floor area and often relate to harnessing sexual energy.\n\n"}
{"id": "22298996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22298996", "title": "Lopon", "text": "Lopon\n\nLopon is a spiritual degree given in Tibetan Buddhism equal to M. A.\n"}
{"id": "1043793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1043793", "title": "Lucien Lévy-Bruhl", "text": "Lucien Lévy-Bruhl\n\nLucien Lévy-Bruhl (10 April 1857 – 13 March 1939) was a French scholar trained in philosophy, who made contributions to the budding fields of sociology and ethnology. His primary field of study involved primitive mentality.\n\nLévy-Bruhl was born in Paris. He was an anthropologist who wrote about the 'primitive mind'. In his work \"How Natives Think\" (1910), Lévy-Bruhl elaborated on what he posited as the two basic mindsets of mankind, \"primitive\" and \"modern.\" The primitive mind does not differentiate the supernatural from reality, but rather uses \"mystical participation\" to manipulate the world. According to Lévy-Bruhl, the primitive mind doesn't address contradictions. The modern mind, by contrast, uses reflection and logic. Lévy-Bruhl believed in a historical and evolutionary teleology leading from the primitive mind to the modern mind. Sociologist Stanislav Andreski argued that despite its flaws, Lévy-Bruhl's \"How Natives Think\" was an accurate and valuable contribution to anthropology, perhaps even more so than better-known work by Claude Lévi-Strauss.\n\nLévy-Bruhl's work, especially the concepts of \"collective representation\" and \"participation mystique\", influenced the psychological theory of C. G. Jung.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2525564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2525564", "title": "Ludwik Fleck", "text": "Ludwik Fleck\n\nLudwik Fleck (11 July 1896 – 5 June 1961) was a Polish and Israeli physician and biologist who did important work in epidemic typhus in Lwów, Poland, with Rudolf Weigl and in the 1930s developed the concepts of the \"Denkstil\" (\"thought style\") and the \"Denkkollektiv\" (\"thought collective\").\n\nThe concept of the \"thought collective\" defined by him is important in the philosophy of science and in logology (the \"science of science\"), helping to explain how scientific ideas change over time, much as in Thomas Kuhn's later notion of the \"paradigm shift\" and in Michel Foucault's concept of the \"episteme\".\n\nFleck was born in Lemberg (\"Lwów\" in Polish; \"Lvov\" in Russian; now L'viv, Ukraine) and grew up in the cultural autonomy of the Austrian province of Galicia. He graduated from a Polish lyceum (secondary school) in 1914 and enrolled at Lwów's Jan Kazimierz University, where he received his medical degree.\n\nIn 1920 he became an assistant to the famous typhus specialist Rudolf Weigl at Jan Kazimierz University. From 1923 to 1935 Fleck worked in the department of internal medicine at Lwów General Hospital, then became director of the bacteriological laboratory at the local social security authority. From 1935 he worked at the private bacteriological laboratory which he had earlier founded.\n\nWith Nazi Germany's occupation of L'viv, Fleck was deported with his wife, Ernestina Waldmann, and son Ryszard to the city's Jewish ghetto. He continued his research in the hospital and developed a new procedure in which he procured a vaccine from the urine of typhus patients. Fleck's work was known to the German occupiers and his family were arrested in December 1942 and deported to the Laokoon pharmaceutical factory to produce a typhus serum. He and his family were arrested again and sent to the Auschwitz concentration camp on February 7, 1943. His task was to diagnose syphilis, typhus and other illnesses using serological tests. From December 1943 until the liberation of Poland on April 11, 1945 Fleck was detained in Buchenwald concentration camp.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1952, he served as the head of the Institute of Microbiology of the School of Medicine of Maria Sklodowska-Curie University of Lublin. In 1952, he moved to Warsaw to become the Director of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at the Mother and Child State Institute. In 1954 he was elected a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Fleck's research during these years focused on the question of the behavior of leucocytes in infectious and stress situations. Between 1946 and 1957 he published 87 medical and scientific articles in Polish, French, English and Swiss journals. In 1951 Fleck was awarded the National Prize for Scientific Achievements and in 1955 the Officer's Cross of the Order of the Renaissance of Poland.\n\nIn 1956, after a heart attack and the discovery that he was suffering from lymphosarcoma, Fleck emigrated to Israel where a position was created for him at the Israel Institute for Biological Research. He died in 1961 at the age of 64 of a second heart attack.\n\nThe Ludwik Fleck Prize is awarded annually for the best book in the area of science and technology studies. It was created by the 4S Council (Society for the Social Studies of Science) in 1992.\n\nFleck wrote that the development of truth in scientific research was an unattainable ideal as different researchers were locked into thought collectives (or thought-styles). This means \"that a pure and direct observation cannot exist: in the act of perceiving objects the observer, i.e. the epistemological subject, is always influenced by the epoch and the environment to which he belongs, that is by what Fleck calls the thought style.\" A \"truth\" was a relative value, expressed in the language or symbolism of the thought collective in which it belonged, and subject to the social and temporal structure of this collective. To state therefore that a specific truth is true or false is impossible. It is true in its own collective, but incomprehensible or unverifiable in most others. He felt that the development of scientific insights was not unidirectional and does not consist of just accumulating new pieces of information, but also in overthrowing the old ones. This overthrowing of old insights is difficult because a collective attains over time a specific way of investigating, bringing with it a blindness to alternative ways of observing and conceptualization. Change was especially possible when members of two thought collectives met and cooperated in observing, formulating hypothesis and ideas. He strongly advocated comparative epistemology. This approach anticipated later developments in social constructionism, and especially the development of critical science and technology studies.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26346691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26346691", "title": "Martin Honecker", "text": "Martin Honecker\n\nMartin Honecker (9 June 1888 – 20 October 1941) was a German philosopher and psychologist.\n\nThe son of a businessman, he studied at the Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms University in Bonn and the Ludwig-Maximilians University of Munich, with, among others, Adolf Dyroff. In 1914 Honecker graduated with a doctorate in the legal philosophy of Alessandro Turamini. He fought in World War I, but was captured by the French and interned in Switzerland.\n\nDuring his imprisonment he began his work \"Gegenstandslogik und Denklogik\". In 1924 he took over the chair of Josef Geyser in Freiburg as a full professor.\n\nFrom 1925 to 1929 he was secretary general of the \"Görres-Stiftung\". From 1925 to 1926 he was one of the editors of the quarterly education journal \"Pädagogik\". He also edited the philosophy journals \"Forschungen zur Geschichte der Philosophie der Neuzeit\" and \"Philosophische Handbibliothek\". He was doctoral advisor of Roman Catholic theologian Karl Rahner.\n\nDuring World War II he worked as an Army psychologist at the Generalkommando V in Stuttgart.\n\n"}
{"id": "17164004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17164004", "title": "Masaharu Taniguchi", "text": "Masaharu Taniguchi\n\nHe began studying English literature at the University of Waseda, Tokyo. In parallel, he also studied the works of Fenwicke Holmes, and subsequently translated Holmes' book, \"The Law of Mind in Action\" into Japanese. In 1929, after much study and contemplation, he reported having received a divine revelation followed by the healing of his daughter. This led in 1930 to the creation of a magazine, \"Seicho-no-ie\" (\"home of infinite life, wisdom, and abundance\"). The movement grew during the 1930s, although was suppressed during World War II. In 1952, he co-authored a book with Fenwicke Holmes titled \"The Science of Faith\".\n\nTaniguchi died in a Nagasaki hospital on June 17, 1985, at the age of ninety-one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55940", "title": "Nulla poena sine lege", "text": "Nulla poena sine lege\n\nNulla poena sine lege (Latin for \"no penalty without a law\") is a legal principle, requiring that one cannot be punished for doing something that is not prohibited by law. This principle is accepted and codified in modern democratic states as a basic requirement of the rule of law. It has been described as \"one of the most 'widely held value-judgement[s] in the entire history of human thought.\n\nIn modern European criminal law, e.g. of the Constitutional Court of Germany, the principle of \"nulla poena sine lege\" has been found to consist of four separate requirements:\n\n\n\n\n\nOne complexity is the lawmaking power of judges under common law. Even in civil law systems that do not admit judge-made law, it is not always clear when the function of interpretation of the criminal law ends and judicial lawmaking begins.\n\nIn English criminal law there are offences of common law origin. For example, murder is still a common law offence and lacks a statutory definition. The Homicide Act 1957 did not include a statutory definition of murder (or any other homicidal offense). Therefore, the definition of murder was the subject of no fewer than six appeals to the House of Lords within the next 40 years (\"Director of Public Prosecutions v. Smith\" [1961] A.C. 290; \"Hyam v. Director of Public Prosecutions\" [1975] A.C. 55; \"Regina v. Cunningham\" [1982] A.C. 566; \"Regina v. Moloney\" [1985] A.C. 905; \"Regina v. Hancock\" [1986] A.C. 455; \"Regina v. Woollin\" [1998] 4 A11 E.R. 103 (H.L.)).\n\nThe legal principle \"nulla poena sine lege\" as principle in natural law is due to the contention of scholars of the Scholasticism about the preconditions of a guilty conscience. In relation to the Ezekiel-commentary of Sophronius Eusebius Hieronymus, Thomas Aquinas and Francisco Suárez analysed the formal conditions of the punishment of conscience. Thomas located the conditions within the synderesis. For him it is a formal and active part of the human soul. Understanding of activity, which is in accordance with the human nature, is formal possible due to the synderesis. Hence the synderesis contains in the works of patristic authors a law which commands how the human as human has to act. In the individual case this law is contentual definite. For the scholastic this is shown in the action of the intellect. This action is named since Thomas \"conscientia\". A possible content of the \"conscientia\" is the punishment in concordance with the content of the synderesis, in case the human has had not act in concordance with the human nature. An example for the punishment is madness, which since antiquity is a punishment of conscience. The Oresteia is a famous example for this.\n\nAccording Suárez the punishment of conscience is the insight in an obligation to act in concordance with the human nature to undo a past misdeed. This insight obligates to impossible actions due to the fact that the misdeed is in the past and hence it is unchangeable. Therefore the \"conscientia\" obligates in concordance with the synderesis to do an impossible action. Hence the \"conscientia\" restricts conscientious persons by doing a limitation on their own will. For they are unable to think about any other action than to fulfil their obligation. Inasmuch the conscientia restricts the intellect the scholastic speak of it as a \"malum\" or \"malum metaphysicum\", because the limitation is related to a metaphysical quality of a human. The law is constituted by the human nature itself from what the \"malum metaphysicum\" is inflicted. Therefore the punishment of the conscience is executed because of a violation of natural law.\n\nThe question of jurisdiction may sometimes come to contradict this principle. For example, customary international law allows the prosecution of pirates by any country (applying universal jurisdiction), even if they did not commit crimes at the area that falls under this country's law. A similar principle has appeared in the recent decades with regard to crimes of genocide (see genocide as a crime under domestic law); and UN Security Council Resolution 1674 \"reaffirms the provisions of paragraphs 138 and 139 of the 2005 World Summit Outcome Document regarding the responsibility to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity\" even if the State in which the population is being assaulted does not recognise these assaults as a breach of domestic law. However, it seems that universal jurisdiction is not to be expanded substantially to other crimes, so as to satisfy \"Nulla poena sine lege\".\n\nSince the Nuremberg Trials, penal law is taken to include the prohibitions of international criminal law, in addition to those of domestic law. The normative content of nulla poena in international law is developed by Shahram Dana in \"Beyond Retroactivity to Realizing Justice: The Principle of Legality in International Criminal Law Sentencing\" published in 99 JOURNAL OF CRIMINAL LAW AND CRIMINOLOGY 857 (2009). Thus, prosecutions have been possible of such individuals as Nazi war criminals and officials of the German Democratic Republic responsible for the Berlin Wall, even though their deeds may have been allowed or even ordered by domestic law. Also, courts when dealing with such cases will tend to look to the letter of the law at the time, even in regimes where the law as it was written was generally disregarded in practice by its own authors.\n\nHowever, some legal scholars criticize this, because generally, in the legal systems of Continental Europe where the maxim was first developed, \"penal law\" was taken to mean statutory penal law, so as to create a guarantee to the individual, considered as a fundamental right, that he would not be prosecuted for an action or omission that was not considered a crime according to the statutes passed by the legislators in force at the time of the action or omission, and that only those penalties that were in place when the infringement took place would be applied. Also, even if one considers that certain actions are prohibited under general principles of international law, critics point out that a prohibition in a general principle does not amount to the establishment of a crime, and that the rules of international law also do not stipulate specific penalties for the violations.\n\nIn an attempt to address those criticisms, the statute of the recently established International Criminal Court provides for a system in which crimes and penalties are expressly set out in written law, that shall only be applied to future cases.\n\nThis principle is enshrined in several national constitutions, and a number of international instruments. See e.g. European Convention on Human Rights, article 7(1); Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, articles 22 and 23.\n\n"}
{"id": "39419772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39419772", "title": "Out of danger species", "text": "Out of danger species\n\nAn Out-of-Danger species is an animal or plant species that was formerly in the Rare, Vulnerable, or Endangered category, but is not anymore because the species' survival has been relatively secured, e.g. Ginko Biloba.\n"}
{"id": "21751690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21751690", "title": "Phaleas of Chalcedon", "text": "Phaleas of Chalcedon\n\nPhaleas of Chalcedon (; fl. likely in early 4th century BCE) was a Greek statesman of antiquity, who argued that all citizens of a model city should be equal in property and education.\n\nThe only surviving reference to Phaleas of Chalcedon appears in Aristotle's \"Politics\". According to Aristotle, Phaleas argued that an equal division of land and equal education for all citizens would eliminate civil strife. Although Phaleas recognized that such a radical constitution would be difficult to implement in established cities, he believed it would be practicable in newly founded cities. In established cities, Phaleas recommended setting up dowries for the rich to give to the poor in order to level property ownership over time. In addition to equality of land and education, Phaleas proposed that all artisans be publicly owned slaves.\n\nAristotle criticized several aspects of Phaleas' proposed constitution. Aristotle argued that while leveling land ownership would appease the poor, it would lead to insurrection among the rich who were to be dispossessed and who viewed their wealth as a right of nobility. Rather, in order to eliminate civil strife, society must educate the populace in such a way as to control want and greed; the poor must be taught to accept their station and the rich not to become overly greedy. Aristotle further argued that equal distribution of land does not achieve equality of property, as other assets, such as cattle, furniture and slaves, are also of value; if property were to be regulated, one should regulate all types of property.\n\n"}
{"id": "23805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23805", "title": "Pope John Paul II", "text": "Pope John Paul II\n\nPope John Paul II (; ; ; born Karol Józef Wojtyła; ; 18 May 1920 – 2 April 2005) served as Pope and sovereign of the Vatican City State from 1978 to 2005. \n\nHe was elected by the second Papal conclave of 1978, which was called after Pope John Paul I, who had been elected in August to succeed Pope Paul VI, died after thirty-three days.\nCardinal Wojtyła was elected on the third day of the conclave and adopted his predecessor's name in tribute to him. John Paul II is recognised as helping to end Communist rule in his native Poland and eventually all of Europe. John Paul II significantly improved the Catholic Church's relations with Judaism, Islam, the Eastern Orthodox Church, and the Anglican Communion. He upheld the Church's teachings on such matters as artificial contraception and the ordination of women, but also supported the Church's Second Vatican Council and its reforms.\n\nHe was one of the most travelled world leaders in history, visiting 129 countries during his pontificate. As part of his special emphasis on the universal call to holiness, he beatified 1,340 people and canonised 483 saints, more than the combined tally of his predecessors during the preceding five centuries. By the time of his death, he had named most of the College of Cardinals, consecrated or co-consecrated a large number of the world's bishops, and ordained many priests. A key goal of John Paul's papacy was to transform and reposition the Catholic Church. His wish was \"to place his Church at the heart of a new religious alliance that would bring together Jews, Muslims and Christians in a great religious armada\".\n\nJohn Paul II was the second longest-serving pope in modern history after Pope Pius IX, who served for nearly 32 years from 1846 to 1878. Born in Poland, John Paul II was the first non-Italian pope since the Dutch Pope Adrian VI, who served from 1522 to 1523. John Paul II's cause for canonisation commenced in 2005 one month after his death with the traditional five-year waiting period waived. On 19 December 2009, John Paul II was proclaimed Venerable by his successor Pope Benedict XVI and was beatified on 1 May 2011 (Divine Mercy Sunday) after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints attributed one miracle to his intercession, the healing of a French nun from Parkinson's disease. A second miracle attributed to John Paul II's intercession was approved on 2 July 2013, and confirmed by Pope Francis two days later (two miracles must be attributed to a person's intercession to be declared a saint). John Paul II was canonised on 27 April 2014 (again Divine Mercy Sunday), together with Pope John XXIII. On 11 September 2014, Pope Francis added these two optional memorials to the worldwide General Roman Calendar of saints, in response to worldwide requests. It is traditional to celebrate saints' feast days on the anniversary of their deaths, but that of John Paul II (22 October) is celebrated on the anniversary of his papal inauguration. Posthumously, he has been referred to by some Catholics as \"St. John Paul the Great\", although the title has no official recognition.\n\nKarol Józef Wojtyła was born in the Polish town of Wadowice. He was the youngest of three children born to Karol Wojtyła (1879–1941), an ethnic Pole, and Emilia Kaczorowska (1884–1929), whose mother's maiden surname was Scholz. Emilia, who was a schoolteacher, died from Heart failure and Kidney problems in 1929 when Wojtyła was eight years old. His elder sister Olga had died before his birth, but he was close to his brother Edmund, nicknamed \"Mundek\", who was 13 years his senior. Edmund's work as a physician eventually led to his death from scarlet fever, a loss that affected Wojtyła deeply.\n\nAs a boy, Wojtyła was athletic, often playing football as goalkeeper. During his childhood, Wojtyła had contact with Wadowice's large Jewish community. School football games were often organised between teams of Jews and Catholics, and Wojtyła often played on the Jewish side. \"I remember that at least a third of my classmates at elementary school in Wadowice were Jews. At elementary school there were fewer. With some I was on very friendly terms. And what struck me about some of them was their Polish patriotism.\" It was around this time that the young Karol had his first serious relationship with a girl. He became close to a girl called Ginka Beer, described as \"a Jewish beauty, with stupendous eyes and jet black hair, slender, a superb actress.\"\n\nIn mid-1938, Wojtyła and his father left Wadowice and moved to Kraków, where he enrolled at the Jagiellonian University. While studying such topics as philology and various languages, he worked as a volunteer librarian and was required to participate in compulsory military training in the Academic Legion, but he refused to fire a weapon. He performed with various theatrical groups and worked as a playwright. During this time, his talent for language blossomed, and he learned as many as 12 languages — Polish, Latin, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, English, German, Ukrainian, Serbo-Croatian, Slovak and Esperanto, nine of which he used extensively as pope.\n\nIn 1939, Nazi German occupation forces closed the university after invading Poland. Able-bodied males were required to work, so from 1940 to 1944 Wojtyła variously worked as a messenger for a restaurant, a manual labourer in a limestone quarry and for the Solvay chemical factory, to avoid deportation to Germany. In 1940 he was struck by a tram, suffering a fractured skull. The same year he was hit by a lorry in a quarry, which left him with one shoulder higher than the other and a permanent stoop. His father, a former Austro-Hungarian non-commissioned officer and later officer in the Polish Army, died of a heart attack in 1941, leaving Wojtyła as the immediate family's only surviving member. \"I was not at my mother's death, I was not at my brother's death, I was not at my father's death,\" he said, reflecting on these times of his life, nearly forty years later, \"At twenty, I had already lost all the people I loved.\"\nAfter his father's death, he started thinking seriously about the priesthood. In October 1942, while the war continued, he knocked on the door of the Bishop's Palace in Kraków and asked to study for the priesthood. Soon after, he began courses in the clandestine underground seminary run by the Archbishop of Kraków, Adam Stefan Cardinal Sapieha. On 29 February 1944, Wojtyła was hit by a German truck. German Wehrmacht officers tended to him and sent him to a hospital. He spent two weeks there recovering from a severe concussion and a shoulder injury. It seemed to him that this accident and his survival was a confirmation of his vocation. On 6 August 1944, a day known as \"Black Sunday\", the Gestapo rounded up young men in Kraków to curtail the uprising there, similar to the recent uprising in Warsaw. Wojtyła escaped by hiding in the basement of his uncle's house at 10 Tyniecka Street, while the German troops searched above. More than eight thousand men and boys were taken that day, while Wojtyła escaped to the Archbishop's Palace, where he remained until after the Germans had left.\n\nOn the night of 17 January 1945, the Germans fled the city, and the students reclaimed the ruined seminary. Wojtyła and another seminarian volunteered for the task of clearing away piles of frozen excrement from the toilets. Wojtyła also helped a 14-year-old Jewish refugee girl named Edith Zierer, who had escaped from a Nazi labour camp in Częstochowa. Edith had collapsed on a railway platform, so Wojtyła carried her to a train and stayed with her throughout the journey to Kraków. Edith credits Wojtyła with saving her life that day. B'nai B'rith and other authorities have said that Wojtyła helped protect many other Polish Jews from the Nazis. During the Nazi occupation of Poland, a Jewish family sent its son, Stanley Berger, to be hidden by a Gentile Polish family. Berger's biological Jewish parents died during the Holocaust, and after the war Berger's new Christian parents asked a young Polish priest named Karol Wojtyła, the future Pope John Paul II, to baptise the boy. The future pope refused, claiming that the child should be raised in the Jewish faith of his birth parents and nation, not as a Catholic. In September 2003, Emmanuelle Pacifici, the head of Italy's Jewish community, proposed that John Paul II receive the medal of a Righteous Among the Nations for saving a two-year-old Jewish boy by giving him to a Gentile Polish family to be hidden in 1942, when Karol Wojtyła was just a seminarian. After the war, this boy's Christian adopted parents asked the future Pope John Paul II to baptise the boy, yet once again he refused, as with Berger. After the war, Karol Wojtyła did everything he could to ensure that this Jewish boy he saved leave Poland to be raised by his Jewish relatives in the United States. In April 2005, shortly after John Paul II's death, the Israeli government created a commission to honour the legacy of John Paul II. One of the proposed ways of honouring him was to give him the medal of the Righteous Among the Nations. In Wojtyła's last book, \"Memory and Identity\", he described the 12 years of the Nazi régime as \"bestiality\", quoting from the Polish theologian and philosopher Konstanty Michalski.\n\nAfter finishing his studies at the seminary in Kraków, Wojtyła was ordained as a priest on All Saints' Day, 1 November 1946, by the Archbishop of Kraków, Cardinal Sapieha. Sapieha sent Wojtyła to Rome's Pontifical International Athenaeum \"Angelicum\", the future Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, to study under the French Dominican Fr. Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange beginning on 26 November 1946. He resided in the Belgian Pontifical College during this time, under presidency of Mgr Maximilien de Furstenberg. Wojtyła earned a licence in July 1947, passed his doctoral exam on 14 June 1948, and successfully defended his doctoral thesis titled \"Doctrina de fide apud S. Ioannem a Cruce\" (The Doctrine of Faith in St. John of the Cross) in philosophy on 19 June 1948. The \"Angelicum\" preserves the original copy of Wojtyła's typewritten thesis. Among other courses at the \"Angelicum\", Wojtyła studied Hebrew with the Dutch Dominican Peter G. Duncker, author of the \"Compendium grammaticae linguae hebraicae biblicae\".\n\nAccording to Wojtyła's schoolmate the future Austrian Cardinal Alfons Stickler, in 1947 during his sojourn at the \"Angelicum\" Wojtyła visited Padre Pio, who heard his confession and told him that one day he would ascend to \"the highest post in the Church\". Cardinal Stickler added that Wojtyła believed that the prophecy was fulfilled when he became a Cardinal.\n\nWojtyła returned to Poland in the summer of 1948 for his first pastoral assignment in the village of Niegowić, from Kraków, at the Church of the Assumption. He arrived at Niegowić at harvest time, where his first action was to kneel and kiss the ground. He repeated this gesture, which he adapted from the French saint Jean Marie Baptiste Vianney, throughout his papacy.\nIn March 1949, Wojtyła was transferred to the parish of Saint Florian in Kraków. He taught ethics at Jagiellonian University and subsequently at the Catholic University of Lublin. While teaching, he gathered a group of about 20 young people, who began to call themselves \"Rodzinka\", the \"little family\". They met for prayer, philosophical discussion, and to help the blind and sick. The group eventually grew to approximately 200 participants, and their activities expanded to include annual skiing and kayaking trips.\n\nIn 1953, Wojtyła's habilitation thesis was accepted by the Faculty of Theology at the Jagiellonian University. In 1954, he earned a Doctorate in Sacred Theology, evaluating the feasibility of a Catholic ethic based on the ethical system of the phenomenologist Max Scheler with a dissertation titled \"Reevaluation of the possibility of founding a Catholic ethic on the ethical system of Max Scheler\" (Ocena możliwości zbudowania etyki chrześcijańskiej przy założeniach systemu Maksa Schelera). Scheler was a German philosopher who founded a broad philosophical movement that emphasised the study of conscious experience. However, the Communist authorities abolished the Faculty of Theology at the Jagellonian University, thereby preventing him from receiving the degree until 1957. Wojtyła developed a theological approach, called phenomenological Thomism, that combined traditional Catholic Thomism with the ideas of personalism, a philosophical approach deriving from phenomenology, which was popular among Catholic intellectuals in Kraków during Wojtyła's intellectual development. He translated Scheler's \"Formalism and the Ethics of Substantive Values\".\n\nDuring this period, Wojtyła wrote a series of articles in Kraków's Catholic newspaper, \"Tygodnik Powszechny\" (\"Universal Weekly\"), dealing with contemporary church issues. He focused on creating original literary work during his first dozen years as a priest. War, life under Communism, and his pastoral responsibilities all fed his poetry and plays. Wojtyła published his work under two pseudonyms—\"Andrzej Jawień\" and \"Stanisław Andrzej Gruda\"—to distinguish his literary from his religious writings (under his own name), and also so that his literary works would be considered on their merits. In 1960, Wojtyła published the influential theological book \"Love and Responsibility\", a defence of traditional Church teachings on marriage from a new philosophical standpoint.\n\nWhile a priest in Kraków, groups of students regularly joined Wojtyła for hiking, skiing, bicycling, camping and kayaking, accompanied by prayer, outdoor Masses and theological discussions. In Stalinist-era Poland, it was not permitted for priests to travel with groups of students. Father Wojtyła asked his younger companions to call him \"Wujek\" (Polish for \"Uncle\") to prevent outsiders from deducing he was a priest. The nickname gained popularity among his followers. In 1958, when Wojtyła was named auxiliary bishop of Kraków, his acquaintances expressed concern that this would cause him to change. Wojtyła responded to his friends, \"Wujek will remain Wujek,\" and he continued to live a simple life, shunning the trappings that came with his position as Bishop. This beloved nickname stayed with Wojtyła for his entire life and continues to be affectionately used, particularly by the Polish people.\n\nOn 4 July 1958, while Wojtyła was on a kayaking holiday in the lakes region of northern Poland, Pope Pius XII appointed him as the Auxiliary Bishop of Kraków. He was then summoned to Warsaw to meet the Primate of Poland, Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński, who informed him of his appointment. He agreed to serve as Auxiliary Bishop to Kraków's Archbishop Eugeniusz Baziak, and he received episcopal consecration (as Titular Bishop of Ombi) on 28 September 1958. Baziak was the principal consecrator. Principal co-consecrators were Bishop Boleslaw Kominek (Titular Bishop of Sophene and Vågå, auxiliary of the Catholic Archdiocese of Wrocław, and future Cardinal and Archbishop of Wrocław) and then-Auxiliary Bishop Franciszek Jop of the Catholic Diocese of Sandomierz (Titular Bishop of Daulia; later Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of Wrocław and then Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Opole). At the age of 38, Wojtyła became the youngest bishop in Poland.\nThe following year, 1959, Wojtyla held Nowa Huta's first ever Mass, a Midnight Mass on Christmas Day. Baziak died in June 1962 and on 16 July Wojtyła was selected as \"Vicar Capitular\" \"(temporary administrator)\" of the Archdiocese until an Archbishop could be appointed.\n\nIn October 1962, Wojtyła took part in the Second Vatican Council (1962–1965), where he made contributions to two of its most historic and influential products, the \"Decree on Religious Freedom\" (in Latin, \"Dignitatis humanae\") and the \"Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World\" (\"Gaudium et spes\"). Wojtyła and the Polish bishops contributed a draft text to the Council for \"Gaudium et spes\". According to the historian John W. O'Malley, the draft text \"Gaudium et spes\" that Wojtyła and the Polish delegation sent \"had some influence on the version that was sent to the council fathers that summer but was not accepted as the base text\". According to John F. Crosby, as pope, John Paul II used the words of \"Gaudium et spes\" later to introduce his own views on the nature of the human person in relation to God: man is \"the only creature on earth that God has wanted for its own sake\", but man \"can fully discover his true self only in a sincere giving of himself\".\n\nHe also participated in the assemblies of the Synod of Bishops. On 13 January 1964, Pope Paul VI appointed him Archbishop of Kraków. On 26 June 1967, Paul VI announced Archbishop Karol Wojtyła's promotion to the Sacred College of Cardinals. Wojtyła was named Cardinal-Priest of the titulus of San Cesareo in Palatio.\n\nIn 1967, he was instrumental in formulating the encyclical \"Humanae vitae\", which dealt with the same issues that forbid abortion and artificial birth control.\n\nIn 1970, according to a contemporary witness, Cardinal Wojtyła was against the distribution of a letter around Kraków, stating that the Polish Episcopate was preparing for the 50th anniversary of the Polish–Soviet War.\n\nIn 1973 Cardinal Wojtyła met philosopher Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka, the wife of Hendrik S. Houthakker, Professor of Economy at Stanford University and Harvard University, and member of President Nixon's Council of Economic Advisers Tymieniecka collaborated with Wojtyła on a number of projects including an English translation of Wojtyła's book \"Osoba i czyn\" (Person and Act). Person and Act, one of Pope John Paul II's foremost literary works, was initially written in Polish. Tymieniecka produced the English-language version. The two of them corresponded over the years, and grew to be good friends. When Wojtyła visited New England, USA in summer 1976, Tymieniecka put him up as a guest in her family home. Wojtyła enjoyed his holiday in Pomfret, Vermont kayaking and enjoying as he had done in his beloved Poland. Photos of the two friends on holiday together; skiing, camping and picnicking, show Cardinal Wojtyła in his shorts, in his most relaxed state.\n\nDuring Wojtyła's visits to Pomfret, Tymieniecka also organised his meeting with the American Cardinals through connections of her husband. These same Cardinals would be the ones who would give him most support at his eventual election to the papacy\n\nIn August 1978, following the death of Pope Paul VI, Cardinal Wojtyła voted in the papal conclave, which elected Pope John Paul I. John Paul I died after only 33 days as pope, triggering another conclave.\n\nThe second conclave of 1978 started on 14 October, ten days after the funeral. It was split between two strong candidates for the papacy: Giuseppe Cardinal Siri, the conservative Archbishop of Genoa, and the liberal Archbishop of Florence, Giovanni Cardinal Benelli, a close friend of John Paul I.\n\nSupporters of Benelli were confident that he would be elected, and in early ballots, Benelli came within nine votes of success. However, both men faced sufficient opposition for neither to be likely to prevail. Giovanni Colombo, the Archbishop of Milan was considered as a compromise candidate among the Italian cardinal-electors, but when he started to receive votes, he announced that, if elected, he would decline to accept the papacy. Franz Cardinal König, Archbishop of Vienna, suggested to his fellow electors another compromise candidate: the Polish Cardinal Karol Józef Wojtyła. Wojtyła won on the eighth ballot on the third day 16 October, coincidentally the day that evangelical preacher Billy Graham had just concluded a 10-day pilgrimage to Poland, with, according to the Italian press, 99 votes from the 111 participating electors.\n\nAlso among those cardinals who rallied behind Wojtyła were supporters of Giuseppe Siri, Stefan Wyszyński, most of the American cardinals (led by John Krol), and other moderate cardinals. He accepted his election with these words: \"With obedience in faith to Christ, my Lord, and with trust in the Mother of Christ and the Church, in spite of great difficulties, I accept.\" The pope, in tribute to his immediate predecessor, then took the regnal name of \"John Paul II\", also in honour of the late Pope Paul VI, and the traditional white smoke informed the crowd gathered in St. Peter's Square that a pope had been chosen. There had been rumours that the new pope wished to be known as \"Pope Stanislaus I\" in honour of the Polish saint of the name, but was convinced by the cardinals that it was not a Roman name. When the new pontiff appeared on the balcony, he broke tradition by addressing the gathered crowd:\n\nDear brothers and sisters, we are saddened at the death of our beloved Pope John Paul I, and so the cardinals have called for a new bishop of Rome. They called him from a faraway land—far and yet always close because of our communion in faith and Christian traditions. I was afraid to accept that responsibility, yet I do so in a spirit of obedience to the Lord and total faithfulness to Mary, our most Holy Mother. I am speaking to you in your—no, our Italian language. If I make a mistake, please \" 'corrict' \" me ...\n\nWojtyła became the 264th pope according to the chronological list of popes, the first non-Italian in 455 years. At only 58 years of age, he was the youngest pope since Pope Pius IX in 1846, who was 54. Like his predecessor, John Paul II dispensed with the traditional Papal coronation and instead received ecclesiastical investiture with a simplified Papal inauguration on 22 October 1978. During his inauguration, when the cardinals were to kneel before him to take their vows and kiss his ring, he stood up as the Polish prelate Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński knelt down, stopped him from kissing the ring, and simply hugged him.\n\nDuring his pontificate, Pope John Paul II made trips to 129 countries, travelling more than while doing so. He consistently attracted large crowds, some among the largest ever assembled in human history, such as the Manila World Youth Day, which gathered up to four million people, the largest Papal gathering ever, according to the Vatican. John Paul II's earliest official visits were to the Dominican Republic and Mexico in January 1979.\nWhile some of his trips (such as to the United States and the Holy Land) were to places previously visited by Pope Paul VI, John Paul II became the first pope to visit the White House in October 1979, where he was greeted warmly by then-President Jimmy Carter. He was the first pope ever to visit several countries in one year, starting in 1979 with Mexico and Ireland. He was the first reigning pope to travel to the United Kingdom, in 1982, where he met Queen Elizabeth II, the Supreme Governor of the Church of England. While in Britain he also visited Canterbury Cathedral and knelt in prayer with Robert Runcie, the Archbishop of Canterbury, at the spot where Thomas à Becket had been killed, as well as holding several large-scale open air masses, including one at Wembley Stadium, which was attended by some 80,000 people.\n\nHe travelled to Haiti in 1983, where he spoke in Creole to thousands of impoverished Catholics gathered to greet him at the airport. His message, \"things must change in Haiti,\" referring to the disparity between the wealthy and the poor, was met with thunderous applause. In 2000, he was the first modern pope to visit Egypt, where he met with the Coptic pope, Pope Shenouda III and the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Alexandria. He was the first Catholic pope to visit and pray in an Islamic mosque, in Damascus, Syria, in 2001. He visited the Umayyad Mosque, a former Christian church where John the Baptist is believed to be interred, where he made a speech calling for Muslims, Christians and Jews to live together.\n\nOn 15 January 1995, during the X World Youth Day, he offered Mass to an estimated crowd of between five and seven million in Luneta Park, Manila, Philippines, which was considered to be the largest single gathering in Christian history. In March 2000, while visiting Jerusalem, John Paul became the first pope in history to visit and pray at the Western Wall. In September 2001, amid post-11 September concerns, he travelled to Kazakhstan, with an audience largely consisting of Muslims, and to Armenia, to participate in the celebration of 1,700 years of Armenian Christianity.\n\nIn June 1979, Pope John Paul II travelled to Poland, where ecstatic crowds constantly surrounded him. This first papal trip to Poland uplifted the nation's spirit and sparked the formation of the Solidarity movement in 1980, which later brought freedom and human rights to his troubled homeland.\nPoland's Communist leaders intended to use the pope's visit to show the people that although the pope was Polish it did not alter their capacity to govern, oppress, and distribute the goods of society. They also hoped that if the pope abided by the rules they set, that the Polish people would see his example and follow them as well. If the pope's visit inspired a riot, the Communist leaders of Poland were prepared to crush the uprising and blame the suffering on the pope.\n\nAccording to John Lewis Gaddis, one of the most influential historians of the Cold War, the trip led to the formation of Solidarity and would begin the process of Communism's demise in Eastern Europe:\n\nOn later trips to Poland, he gave tacit support to the Solidarity organisation. These visits reinforced this message and contributed to the collapse of East European Communism that took place between 1989/1990 with the reintroduction of democracy in Poland, and which then spread through Eastern Europe (1990–1991) and South-Eastern Europe (1990–1992).\n\nAs pope, John Paul II wrote 14 papal encyclicals and taught about sexuality in what is referred as the \"Theology of the Body\". Some key elements of his strategy to \"reposition the Catholic Church\" were encyclicals such as \"Ecclesia de Eucharistia\", \"Reconciliatio et paenitentia\" and \"Redemptoris Mater\". In his \"At the beginning of the new millennium\" (\"Novo Millennio Ineunte\"), he emphasised the importance of \"starting afresh from Christ\": \"No, we shall not be saved by a formula but by a Person.\" In \"The Splendour of the Truth\" (\"Veritatis Splendor\"), he emphasised the dependence of man on God and His Law (\"Without the Creator, the creature disappears\") and the \"dependence of freedom on the truth\". He warned that man \"giving himself over to relativism and scepticism, goes off in search of an illusory freedom apart from truth itself\". In \"Fides et Ratio\" (\"On the Relationship between Faith and Reason\") John Paul promoted a renewed interest in philosophy and an autonomous pursuit of truth in theological matters. Drawing on many different sources (such as Thomism), he described the mutually supporting relationship between faith and reason, and emphasised that theologians should focus on that relationship. John Paul II wrote extensively about workers and the social doctrine of the Church, which he discussed in three encyclicals: \"Laborem exercens\", \"Sollicitudo rei socialis\", and \"Centesimus annus\". Through his encyclicals and many Apostolic Letters and Exhortations, John Paul II talked about the dignity of women and the importance of the family for the future of humanity. Other encyclicals include \"The Gospel of Life\" (\"Evangelium Vitae\") and \"Ut Unum Sint\" (\"That They May Be One\"). Though critics accused him of inflexibility in explicitly re-asserting Catholic moral teachings against abortion and euthanasia that have been in place for well over a thousand years, he urged a more nuanced view of capital punishment. In his second encyclical \"Dives in misericordia\" he stressed that divine mercy is the greatest feature of God, needed especially in modern times.\n\nJohn Paul II was considered a conservative on doctrine and issues relating to human sexual reproduction and the ordination of women.\n\nWhile he was visiting the United States in 1977, the year before becoming pope, Wojtyla said: \"All human life, from the moments of conception and through all subsequent stages, is sacred.\"\n\nA series of 129 lectures given by John Paul II during his Wednesday audiences in Rome between September 1979 and November 1984 were later compiled and published as a single work titled \"Theology of the Body\", an extended meditation on human sexuality. He extended it to the condemnation of abortion, euthanasia and virtually all capital punishment, calling them all a part of a struggle between a \"culture of life\" and a \"culture of death\" . He campaigned for world debt forgiveness and social justice. He coined the term \"social mortgage\", which related that all private property had a social dimension, namely, that \"the goods of this are originally meant for all.\" In 2000, he publicly endorsed the Jubilee 2000 campaign on African debt relief fronted by Irish rock stars Bob Geldof and Bono, once famously interrupting a U2 recording session by telephoning the studio and asking to speak to Bono.\n\nPope John Paul II, who was present and very influential at the 1962–65 Second Vatican Council, affirmed the teachings of that Council and did much to implement them. Nevertheless, his critics often wished that he would embrace the so-called \"progressive\" agenda that some hoped would evolve as a result of the Council. In fact, the Council did not advocate \"progressive\" changes in these areas; for example, they still condemned abortion as an unspeakable crime. Pope John Paul II continued to declare that contraception, abortion, and homosexual acts were gravely sinful, and, with Joseph Ratzinger (future Pope Benedict XVI), opposed liberation theology.\n\nFollowing the Church's exaltation of the marital act of sexual intercourse between a baptised man and woman within sacramental marriage as proper and exclusive to the sacrament of marriage, John Paul II believed that it was, in every instance, profaned by contraception, abortion, divorce followed by a 'second' marriage, and by homosexual acts. In 1994, John Paul II asserted the Church's lack of authority to ordain women to the priesthood, stating that without such authority ordination is not legitimately compatible with fidelity to Christ. This was also deemed a repudiation of calls to break with the constant tradition of the Church by ordaining women to the priesthood. In addition, John Paul II chose not to end the discipline of mandatory priestly celibacy, although in a small number of unusual circumstances, he did allow certain married clergymen of other Christian traditions who later became Catholic to be ordained as Catholic priests.\n\nPope John Paul II was an outspoken opponent of apartheid in South Africa. In 1985, while visiting the Netherlands, he gave an impassioned speech condemning apartheid at the International Court of Justice, proclaiming that \"No system of apartheid or separate development will ever be acceptable as a model for the relations between peoples or races.\" In September 1988, Pope John Paul II made a pilgrimage to ten Southern African countries, including those bordering South Africa, while demonstratively avoiding South Africa. During his visit to Zimbabwe, John Paul II called for economic sanctions against South Africa's government. After John Paul II's death, both Nelson Mandela and Archbishop Desmond Tutu praised the pope for defending human rights and condemning economic injustice.\n\nPope John Paul II was an outspoken opponent of the death penalty, although previous popes had accepted the practice. At a papal mass in St. Louis, Missouri, in the United States he said:\n\nA sign of hope is the increasing recognition that the dignity of human life must never be taken away, even in the case of someone who has done great evil. Modern society has the means of protecting itself, without definitively denying criminals the chance to reform. I renew the appeal I made most recently at Christmas for a consensus to end the death penalty, which is both cruel and unnecessary.\n\nDuring that visit, John Paul II convinced the then governor of Missouri, Mel Carnahan, to reduce the death sentence of convicted murderer Darrell J. Mease to life imprisonment without parole. John Paul II's other attempts to reduce the sentence of death-row inmates were unsuccessful. In 1983, John Paul II visited Guatemala and unsuccessfully asked the country's president, Efraín Ríos Montt, to reduce the sentence for six left-wing guerrillas sentenced to death.\n\nIn 2002, John Paul II again travelled to Guatemala. At that time, Guatemala was one of only two countries in Latin America (the other being Cuba) to apply capital punishment. John Paul II asked the Guatemalan president, Alfonso Portillo, for a moratorium on executions.\n\nPope John Paul II pushed for a reference to Europe's Christian cultural roots in the draft of the European Constitution. In his 2003 apostolic exhortation \"Ecclesia in Europa\", John Paul II wrote that he \"fully (respected) the secular nature of (European) institutions\". However, he wanted the EU Constitution to enshrine religious rights, including acknowledging the rights of religious groups to organise freely, recognise the specific identity of each denomination and allow for a \"structured dialogue\" between each religious community and the EU, and extend across the European Union the legal status enjoyed by religious institutions in individual member states. \"I wish once more to appeal to those drawing up the future European Constitutional Treaty so that it will include a reference to the religion and in particular to the Christian heritage of Europe,\" John Paul II said. The pope's desire for a reference to Europe's Christian identity in the Constitution was supported by non-Catholic representatives of the Church of England and Eastern Orthodox Churches from Russia, Romania, and Greece. John Paul II's demand to include a reference to Europe's Christian roots in the European Constitution was supported by some non-Christians, such as Joseph Weiler, a practising Orthodox Jew and renowned constitutional lawyer, who said that the Constitution's lack of a reference to Christianity was not a \"demonstration of neutrality,\" but, rather, \"a Jacobin attitude\".\n\nAt the same time, however, John Paul II was an enthusiastic supporter of European integration; in particular, he supported his native Poland's entry into the bloc. On 19 May 2003, three weeks before a referendum was held in Poland on EU membership, the Polish pope addressed his compatriots and urged them to vote for Poland's EU membership at St. Peter's Square in Vatican City State. While some conservative, Catholic politicians in Poland opposed EU membership, John Paul II said:\n\nI know that there are many in opposition to integration. I appreciate their concern about maintaining the cultural and religious identity of our nation. However, I must emphasise that Poland has always been an important part of Europe. Europe needs Poland. The Church in Europe needs the Poles' testimony of faith. Poland needs Europe.\n\nThe Polish pope compared Poland's entry into the EU to the Union of Lublin, which was signed in 1564 and united the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania into one nation and created an elective monarchy.\n\nOn 22 October 1996, in a speech to the Pontifical Academy of Sciences plenary session at the Vatican, John Paul II said of evolution that \"this theory has been progressively accepted by researchers, following a series of discoveries in various fields of knowledge. The convergence, neither sought nor fabricated, of the results of work that was conducted independently is in itself a significant argument in favour of this theory.\" John Paul II's embrace of evolution was enthusiastically praised by American palaeontologist and evolutionary biologist Stephen Jay Gould, with whom he had an audience in 1984.\n\nAlthough generally accepting the theory of evolution, John Paul II made one major exception—the human soul. \"If the human body has its origin in living material which pre-exists it, the spiritual soul is immediately created by God.\"\n\nIn 2003 John Paul II criticised the 2003 US-led invasion of Iraq, saying in his State of the World address \"No to war! War is not always inevitable. It is always a defeat for humanity.\" He sent Pío Cardinal Laghi, the former Apostolic Pro-Nuncio to the United States, to talk with George W. Bush, the American President, to express opposition to the war. John Paul II said that it was up to the United Nations to solve the international conflict through diplomacy and that a unilateral aggression is a crime against peace and a violation of international law. The pope's opposition to the Iraq War led to him being a candidate to win the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize, which was ultimately awarded to Iranian attorney/judge and noted human rights advocate, Shirin Ebadi.\n\nIn 1984 and 1986, through Cardinal Ratzinger (future Pope Benedict XVI) as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, John Paul II officially condemned aspects of liberation theology, which had many followers in South America. Visiting Europe, Óscar Romero unsuccessfully attempted to obtain a Vatican condemnation of El Salvador's regime, for violations of human rights and its support of death squads. In his travel to Managua, Nicaragua, in 1983, John Paul II harshly condemned what he dubbed the \"popular Church\" (i.e. \"ecclesial base communities\" supported by the CELAM), and the Nicaraguan clergy's tendencies to support the leftist Sandinistas, reminding the clergy of their duties of obedience to the Holy See. During that visit Ernesto Cardenal, a priest and minister in the Sandinista government, knelt to kiss his hand. John Paul withdrew it, wagged his finger in Cardenal's face, and told him, \"You must straighten out your position with the church.\"\n\nPope John Paul II was the first pontiff to actively fight against Mafia violence in Southern Italy. In 1993, during a pilgrimage to Agrigento, Sicily, he appealed to the Mafiosi: \"I say to those responsible: 'Convert! One day, the judgment of God will arrive!'\" In 1994, John Paul II visited Catania and told victims of Mafia violence to \"rise up and cloak yourself in light and justice!\" In 1995, the Mafia bombed two historical churches in Rome. Some believed that this was the mob's vendetta against the pope for his denunciations of organised crime.\n\nBetween 1990 and 1991, a 34-nation coalition led by the United States waged a war against Saddam Hussein's Iraq, which had invaded and annexed Kuwait. Pope John Paul II was a staunch opponent of the Gulf War. Throughout the conflict, he appealed to the international community to stop the war, and after it was over led diplomatic initiatives to negotiate peace in the Middle East. In his 1991 encyclical Centesimus Annus, John Paul II harshly condemned the conflict:\n\nNo, never again war, which destroys the lives of innocent people, teaches how to kill, throws into upheaval even the lives of those who do the killing and leaves behind a trail of resentment and hatred, thus making it all the more difficult to find a just solution of the very problems which provoked the war.\n\nIn April 1991, during his \"Urbi et Orbi\" Sunday message at St. Peter's Basilica, John Paul II called for the international community to \"lend an ear\" to \"the long-ignored aspirations of oppressed peoples\". He specifically named the Kurds, a people who were fighting a civil war against Saddam Hussein's troops in Iraq, as one such people, and referred to the war as a \"darkness menacing the earth\". During this time, the Vatican had expressed its frustration with the international ignoring of the pope's calls for peace in the Middle East.\n\nJohn Paul II was the first world leader to describe as genocide the massacre by Hutus of Tutsis in the mostly Catholic country of Rwanda, which started in 1990 and reached its height in 1994. He called for a ceasefire and condemned the massacres on 10 April and 15 May 1990. In 1995, during his third visit to Kenya before an audience of 300,000, John Paul II pleaded for an end to the violence in Rwanda and Burundi, pleading for forgiveness and reconciliation as a solution to the genocide. He told Rwandan and Burundian refugees that he \"was close to them and shared their immense pain\". He said:\n\nWhat is happening in your countries is a terrible tragedy that must end. During the African Synod, we, the pastors of the church, felt the duty to express our consternation and to launch an appeal for forgiveness and reconciliation. This is the only way to dissipate the threats of ethnocentrism that are hovering over Africa these days and that have so brutally touched Rwanda and Burundi.\n\nWhile taking a traditional position on human sexuality, maintaining the Church's moral opposition to homosexual acts, John Paul II asserted that people with homosexual inclinations possess the same inherent dignity and rights as everybody else. In his book \"Memory and Identity\" he referred to the \"strong pressures\" by the European Parliament to recognise homosexual unions as an alternative type of family, with the right to adopt children. In the book, as quoted by Reuters, he wrote: \"It is legitimate and necessary to ask oneself if this is not perhaps part of a new ideology of evil, more subtle and hidden, perhaps, intent upon exploiting human rights themselves against man and against the family.\" A 1997 study determined that 3% of the pope's statements were about the issue of sexual morality.\n\nJohn Paul II completed a full-scale reform of the Catholic Church's legal system, Latin and Eastern, and a reform of the Roman Curia.\n\nOn 18 October 1990, when promulgating the \"Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches\", John Paul II stated\nIn 1998 Pope John Paul II issued the motu proprio \"Ad tuendam fidem\", which amended two canons (750 and 1371) of the 1983 Code of Canon Law and two canons (598 and 1436) of the 1990 Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches.\n\nOn 25 January 1983, with the Apostolic Constitution \"Sacrae disciplinae leges\" John Paul II promulgated the current Code of Canon Law for all members of the Catholic Church who belonged to the Latin Church. It entered into force the first Sunday of the following Advent, which was 27 November 1983. John Paul II described the new Code as \"the last document of Vatican II\". Edward N. Peters has referred to the 1983 Code as the \"Johanno-Pauline Code\" (\"Johannes Paulus\" is Latin for \"John Paul\"), paralleling the \"Pio-Benedictine\" 1917 code that it replaced.\n\nPope John Paul II promulgated the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches (CCEO) on 18 October 1990, by the document \"Sacri Canones\". The CCEO came into force of law on 1 October 1991. It is the codification of the common portions of the Canon Law for the 23 of the 24 \"sui iuris\" churches in the Catholic Church that are the Eastern Catholic Churches. It is divided into 30 titles and has a total of 1540 canons.\n\nJohn Paul II promulgated the apostolic constitution \"Pastor bonus\" on 28 June 1988. It instituted a number of reforms in the process of running the Roman Curia. \"Pastor Bonus\" laid out in considerable detail the organisation of the Roman Curia, specifying precisely the names and composition of each dicastery, and enumerating the competencies of each dicastery. It replaced the previous special law, \"Regimini Ecclesiæ universæ\", which was promulgated by Paul VI in 1967.\n\nOn 11 October 1992, in his apostolic constitution \"Fidei depositum\" (\"The Deposit of Faith\"), John Paul ordered the publication of the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\".\n\nHe declared the publication to be \"a sure norm for teaching the faith … a sure and authentic reference text for teaching Catholic doctrine and particularly for preparing local catechisms\". It was \"meant to encourage and assist in the writing of new local catechisms [both applicable and faithful]\" rather than replacing them.\n\nPope John Paul II has been credited with inspiring political change that not only led to the collapse of Communism in his native Poland and eventually all of Eastern Europe, but also in many countries ruled by dictators. In the words of Joaquín Navarro-Valls, John Paul II's press secretary:\n\nThe single fact of John Paul II's election in 1978 changed everything. In Poland, everything began. Not in East Germany or Czechoslovakia. Then the whole thing spread. Why in 1980 did they lead the way in Gdansk? Why did they decide, now or never? Only because there was a Polish pope. He was in Chile and Pinochet was out. He was in Haiti and Duvalier was out. He was in the Philippines and Marcos was out. On many of those occasions, people would come here to the Vatican thanking the Holy Father for changing things.\n\nBefore John Paul II's pilgrimage to Latin America, during a meeting with reporters, he criticised Augusto Pinochet's regime as \"dictatorial\". In the words of \"The New York Times\", he used \"unusually strong language\" to criticise Pinochet and asserted to journalists that the Church in Chile must not only pray, but actively fight for the restoration of democracy in Chile.\n\nDuring his visit to Chile in 1987, John Paul II asked Chile's 31 Catholic bishops to campaign for free elections in the country. According to George Weigel and Cardinal Stanisław Dziwisz, he encouraged Pinochet to accept a democratic opening of the regime, and may even have called for his resignation According to Monsignor Sławomir Oder, the postulator of John Paul II's beatification cause, John Paul's words to Pinochet had a profound impact on the Chilean dictator. The pope confided to a friend: \"I received a letter from Pinochet in which he told me that as a Catholic he had listened to my words, he had accepted them, and he had decided to begin the process to change the leadership of his country.\"\n\nDuring his visit to Chile, John Paul II supported the Vicariate of Solidarity, the Church-led pro-democracy, anti-Pinochet organisation. John Paul II visited the Vicariate of Solidarity's offices, spoke with its workers, and \"called upon them to continue their work, emphasizing that the Gospel consistently urges respect for human rights\". While in Chile, Pope John Paul II made gestures of public support of Chile's anti-Pinochet democratic opposition. For instance, he hugged and kissed Carmen Gloria Quintana, a young student who had been nearly burned to death by Chilean police and told her that \"We must pray for peace and justice in Chile.\" Later, he met with several opposition groups, including those that had been declared illegal by Pinochet's government. The opposition praised John Paul II for denouncing Pinochet as a \"dictator\", for many members of Chile's opposition were persecuted for much milder statements. Bishop Carlos Camus, one of the harshest critics of Pinochet's dictatorship within the Chilean Church, praised John Paul II's stance during the papal visit: \"I am quite moved, because our pastor supports us totally. Never again will anyone be able to say that we are interfering in politics when we defend human dignity.\" He added: \"No country the Pope has visited has remained the same after his departure. The Pope's visit is a mission, an extraordinary social catechism, and his stay here will be a watershed in Chilean history.\"\n\nSome have erroneously accused John Paul II of affirming Pinochet's regime by appearing with the Chilean ruler in public. However, Cardinal Roberto Tucci, the organiser of John Paul II's visits, revealed that Pinochet tricked the pontiff by telling him he would take him to his living room, while in reality he took him to his balcony. Tucci claims that the pontiff was \"furious\".\n\nPope John Paul II visited Haiti on 9 March 1983, when the country was ruled by Jean-Claude \"Baby Doc\" Duvalier. He bluntly criticised the poverty of the country, directly addressing Baby Doc and his wife, Michèle Bennett in front of a large crowd of Haitians:\n\nYours is a beautiful country, rich in human resources, but Christians cannot be unaware of the injustice, the excessive inequality, the degradation of the quality of life, the misery, the hunger, the fear suffered by the majority of the people.\n\nJohn Paul II spoke in French and occasionally in Creole, and in the homily outlined the basic human rights that most Haitians lacked: \"the opportunity to eat enough, to be cared for when ill, to find housing, to study, to overcome illiteracy, to find worthwhile and properly paid work; all that provides a truly human life for men and women, for young and old.\" Following John Paul II's pilgrimage, the Haitian opposition to Duvalier frequently reproduced and quoted the pope's message. Shortly before leaving Haiti, John Paul II called for social change in Haiti by saying: \"Lift up your heads, be conscious of your dignity of men created in God's image...\"\n\nJohn Paul II's visit inspired massive protests against the Duvalier dictatorship. In response to the visit, 860 Catholic priests and Church workers signed a statement committing the Church to work on behalf of the poor. In 1986, Duvalier was deposed in an uprising.\n\nThe collapse of the dictatorship of General Alfredo Stroessner of Paraguay was linked, among other things, to Pope John Paul II's visit to the South American country in 1989. Since Stroessner's taking power through a coup d'état in 1954, Paraguay's bishops increasingly criticised the regime for human rights abuses, rigged elections, and the country's feudal economy. During his private meeting with Stroessner, John Paul II told the dictator:\n\nPolitics has a fundamental ethical dimension because it is first and foremost a service to man. The Church can and must remind men—and in particular those who govern—of their ethical duties for the good of the whole of society. The Church cannot be isolated inside its temples just as men's consciences cannot be isolated from God.\n\nLater, during a Mass, Pope John Paul II criticised the regime for impoverishing the peasants and the unemployed, claiming that the government must give people greater access to the land. Although Stroessner tried to prevent him from doing so, Pope John Paul II met opposition leaders in the one-party state.\n\nJohn Paul II has been credited with being instrumental in bringing down Communism in Central and Eastern Europe, by being the spiritual inspiration behind its downfall and catalyst for \"a peaceful revolution\" in Poland. Lech Wałęsa, the founder of Solidarity and the first post-Communist President of Poland, credited John Paul II with giving Poles the courage to demand change. According to Wałęsa, \"Before his pontificate, the world was divided into blocs. Nobody knew how to get rid of Communism. In Warsaw, in 1979, he simply said: 'Do not be afraid', and later prayed: 'Let your Spirit descend and change the image of the land … this land'.\" It has also been widely alleged that the Vatican Bank covertly funded Solidarity.\nUS President Ronald Reagan's correspondence with the pope reveals \"a continuous scurrying to shore up Vatican support for U.S. policies. Perhaps most surprisingly, the papers show that, as late as 1984, the pope did not believe the Communist Polish government could be changed.\"\n\nThe British historian Timothy Garton Ash, who describes himself as an \"agnostic liberal\", said shortly after John Paul II's death:\n\nNo one can prove conclusively that he was a primary cause of the end of communism. However, the major figures on all sides—not just Lech Wałęsa, the Polish Solidarity leader, but also Solidarity's arch-opponent, General Wojciech Jaruzelski; not just the former American president George Bush Senior but also the former Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev—now agree that he was. I would argue the historical case in three steps: without the Polish Pope, no Solidarity revolution in Poland in 1980; without Solidarity, no dramatic change in Soviet policy towards eastern Europe under Gorbachev; without that change, no velvet revolutions in 1989.\n\nIn December 1989, John Paul II met with the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev at the Vatican and each expressed his respect and admiration for the other. Gorbachev once said \"The collapse of the Iron Curtain would have been impossible without John Paul II.\" On John Paul II's death, Mikhail Gorbachev said: \"Pope John Paul II's devotion to his followers is a remarkable example to all of us.\"\n\nOn 4 June 2004 US President George W. Bush presented the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the United States' highest civilian honour, to John Paul II during a ceremony at the Apostolic Palace. The president read the citation that accompanied the medal, which recognised \"this son of Poland\" whose \"principled stand for peace and freedom has inspired millions and helped to topple communism and tyranny\".\nAfter receiving the award, John Paul II said, \"May the desire for freedom, peace, a more humane world symbolised by this medal inspire men and women of goodwill in every time and place.\"\n\nIn 1983 Poland's Communist government unsuccessfully tried to humiliate John Paul II by falsely saying he had fathered an illegitimate child. Section D of Służba Bezpieczeństwa (SB), the security service, had an action named \"Triangolo\" to carry out criminal operations against the Catholic Church; the operation encompassed all Polish hostile actions against the pope. Captain Grzegorz Piotrowski, one of the murderers of Jerzy Popiełuszko, was the leader of section D. They drugged Irena Kinaszewska, the secretary of the Kraków-based weekly Catholic magazine \"Tygodnik Powszechny\" where Karol Wojtyła had worked, and unsuccessfully attempted to make her admit to having had sexual relations with him.\n\nThe SB then attempted to compromise Cracow priest Andrzej Bardecki, an editor of \"Tygodnik Powszechny\" and one of the closest friends of Cardinal Karol Wojtyła before he became pope, by planting false memoirs in his dwelling, but Piotrowski was exposed and the forgeries were found and destroyed before the SB could \"discover\" them.\n\nJohn Paul II travelled extensively and met with believers from many divergent faiths. At the World Day of Prayer for Peace, held in Assisi on 27 October 1986, more than 120 representatives of different religions and denominations spent a day of fasting and prayer.\n\nJohn Paul II had good relations with the Church of England. He was the first reigning pope to travel to the United Kingdom, in 1982, where he met Queen Elizabeth II, the Supreme Governor of the Church of England. He preached in Canterbury Cathedral and received Robert Runcie, the Archbishop of Canterbury. He said that he was disappointed by the Church of England's decision to ordain women and saw it as a step away from unity between the Anglican Communion and the Catholic Church.\n\nIn 1980, John Paul II issued a Pastoral Provision allowing married former Episcopal priests to become Catholic priests, and for the acceptance of former Episcopal Church parishes into the Catholic Church. He allowed the creation of the Anglican Use form of the Latin Rite, which incorporates the Anglican Book of Common Prayer. He helped establish Our Lady of the Atonement Catholic Church, together with Archbishop Patrick Flores of San Antonio, Texas, as the inaugural parish for the Anglican Use liturgy.\n\nIn his book-length interview \"Crossing the Threshold of Hope\" with the Italian journalist Vittorio Messori published in 1995, John Paul II draws parallels between animism and Christianity. He says:\n\n… it would be helpful to recall … the animist religions which stress ancestor worship. It seems that those who practice them are particularly close to Christianity, and among them, the Church's missionaries also find it easier to speak a common language. Is there, perhaps, in this veneration of ancestors a kind of preparation for the Christian faith in the Communion of Saints, in which all believers—whether living or dead—form a single community, a single body? […] There is nothing strange, then, that the African and Asian animists would become believers in Christ more easily than followers of the great religions of the Far East.\n\nIn 1985, the pope visited the African country of Togo, where 60 per cent of the population espouses animist beliefs. To honour the pope, animist religious leaders met him at a Catholic Marian shrine in the forest, much to the pontiff's delight. John Paul II proceeded to call for the need for religious tolerance, praised nature, and emphasised common elements between animism and Christianity, saying:\n\nNature, exuberant and splendid in this area of forests and lakes, impregnates spirits and hearts with its mystery and orients them spontaneously toward the mystery of He who is the author of life. It is this religious sentiment that animates you and one can say that animates all of your compatriots.\n\nDuring the investiture of President Thomas Boni Yayi of Benin as a titled Yoruba chieftain on 20 December 2008, the reigning Ooni of Ile-Ife, Nigeria, Olubuse II, referred to Pope John Paul II as a previous recipient of the same royal honour.\n\nJohn Paul II had good relations with the Armenian Apostolic Church. In 1996, he brought the Catholic Church and the Armenian Church closer by agreeing with Armenian Archbishop Karekin II on Christ's nature. During an audience in 2000, John Paul II and Karekin II, by then the Catholicos of All Armenians, issued a joint statement condemning the Armenian genocide. Meanwhile, the pope gave Karekin the relics of St. Gregory the Illuminator, the first head of the Armenian Church that had been kept in Naples, Italy, for 500 years. In September 2001, John Paul II went on a three-day pilgrimage to Armenia to take part in an ecumenical celebration with Karekin II in the newly consecrated St. Gregory the Illuminator Cathedral in Yerevan. The two Church leaders signed a declaration remembering the victims of the Armenian genocide.\nTenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama, visited John Paul II eight times. The two men held many similar views and understood similar plights, both coming from nations affected by Communism and both serving as heads of major religious bodies. As Archbishop of Kraków, long before the 14th Dalai Lama was a world-famous figure, Wojtyła held special Masses to pray for the Tibetan people's non-violent struggle for freedom from Maoist China. During his 1995 visit to Sri Lanka, a country where a majority of the population adheres to Theravada Buddhism, John Paul II expressed his admiration for Buddhism:\n\nIn particular I express my highest regard for the followers of Buddhism, the majority religion in Sri Lanka, with its … four great values of … loving kindness, compassion, sympathetic joy and equanimity; with its ten transcendental virtues and the joys of the Sangha expressed so beautifully in the Theragathas. I ardently hope that my visit will serve to strengthen the goodwill between us, and that it will reassure everyone of the Catholic Church's desire for interreligious dialogue and cooperation in building a more just and fraternal world. To everyone I extend the hand of friendship, recalling the splendid words of the Dhammapada: \"Better than a thousand useless words is one single word that gives peace...\"\n\nIn May 1999, John Paul II visited Romania on the invitation from Patriarch Teoctist Arăpaşu of the Romanian Orthodox Church. This was the first time a pope had visited a predominantly Eastern Orthodox country since the Great Schism in 1054. On his arrival, the Patriarch and the President of Romania, Emil Constantinescu, greeted the pope. The Patriarch stated, \"The second millennium of Christian history began with a painful wounding of the unity of the Church; the end of this millennium has seen a real commitment to restoring Christian unity.\"\n\nOn 23–27 June 2001, John Paul II visited Ukraine, another heavily Orthodox nation, at the invitation of the President of Ukraine and bishops of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church. The Pope spoke to leaders of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organisations, pleading for \"open, tolerant and honest dialogue\". About 200 thousand people attended the liturgies celebrated by the Pope in Kiev, and the liturgy in Lviv gathered nearly one and a half million faithful. John Paul II said that an end to the Great Schism was one of his fondest wishes. Healing divisions between the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Churches regarding Latin and Byzantine traditions was clearly of great personal interest. For many years, John Paul II sought to facilitate dialogue and unity stating as early as 1988 in \"Euntes in mundum\", \"Europe has two lungs, it will never breathe easily until it uses both of them.\"\n\nDuring his 2001 travels, John Paul II became the first pope to visit Greece in 1291 years. In Athens, the pope met with Archbishop Christodoulos, the head of the Church of Greece. After a private 30-minute meeting, the two spoke publicly. Christodoulos read a list of \"13 offences\" of the Catholic Church against the Eastern Orthodox Church since the Great Schism, including the pillaging of Constantinople by crusaders in 1204, and bemoaned the lack of apology from the Catholic Church, saying \"Until now, there has not been heard a single request for pardon\" for the \"maniacal crusaders of the 13th century\".\n\nThe pope responded by saying \"For the occasions past and present, when sons and daughters of the Catholic Church have sinned by action or omission against their Orthodox brothers and sisters, may the Lord grant us forgiveness\", to which Christodoulos immediately applauded. John Paul II said that the sacking of Constantinople was a source of \"profound regret\" for Catholics. Later John Paul II and Christodoulos met on a spot where Saint Paul had once preached to Athenian Christians. They issued a 'common declaration', saying \"We shall do everything in our power, so that the Christian roots of Europe and its Christian soul may be preserved... We condemn all recourse to violence, proselytism and fanaticism, in the name of religion.\" The two leaders then said the Lord's Prayer together, breaking an Orthodox taboo against praying with Catholics.\n\nThe pope had said throughout his pontificate that one of his greatest dreams was to visit Russia, but this never occurred. He attempted to solve the problems that had arisen over centuries between the Catholic and Russian Orthodox churches, and in 2004 gave them a 1730 copy of the lost icon of Our Lady of Kazan.\n\nJohn Paul II made considerable efforts to improve relations between Catholicism and Islam.\n\nOn 6 May 2001, he became the first Catholic pope to enter and pray in a mosque, namely the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus, Syria. Respectfully removing his shoes, he entered the former Byzantine era Christian church dedicated to John the Baptist, who is also revered as a prophet of Islam. He gave a speech including the statement: \"For all the times that Muslims and Christians have offended one another, we need to seek forgiveness from the Almighty and to offer each other forgiveness.\" He kissed the Qur'an in Syria, an act that made him popular among Muslims but that disturbed many Catholics.\n\nIn 2004, John Paul II hosted the \"Papal Concert of Reconciliation\", which brought together leaders of Islam with leaders of the Jewish community and of the Catholic Church at the Vatican for a concert by the Kraków Philharmonic Choir from Poland, the London Philharmonic Choir from the United Kingdom, the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra from the United States, and the Ankara State Polyphonic Choir of Turkey. The event was conceived and conducted by Sir Gilbert Levine, KCSG and was broadcast throughout the world.\n\nJohn Paul II oversaw the publication of the Catechism of the Catholic Church, which makes a special provision for Muslims; therein, it is written, \"together with us they adore the one, merciful God, mankind's judge on the last day.\"\n\nIn 1995, Pope John Paul II held a meeting with 21 Jains, a sect that broke away from mainstream Hinduism in 600 BC, organised by the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue. He praised Mohandas Gandhi for his \"unshakeable faith in God\", assured the Jains that the Catholic Church will continue to engage in dialogue with their religion and spoke of the common need to aid the poor. The Jain leaders were impressed with the pope's \"transparency and simplicity\", and the meeting received much attention in the Gujarat state in western India, home to many Jains.\n\nRelations between Catholicism and Judaism improved dramatically during the pontificate of John Paul II. He spoke frequently about the Church's relationship with the Jewish faith.\n\nIn 1979, John Paul II visited the Auschwitz concentration camp in Poland, where many of his compatriots (mostly Jews) had perished during the Nazi occupation in World War II, the first pope to do so. In 1998, he issued \"We Remember: A Reflection on the Shoah\", which outlined his thinking on the Holocaust. He became the first pope known to have made an official papal visit to a synagogue, when he visited the Great Synagogue of Rome on 13 April 1986.\n\nOn 30 December 1993, John Paul II established formal diplomatic relations between the Holy See and the State of Israel, acknowledging its centrality in Jewish life and faith.\n\nOn 7 April 1994, he hosted the \"Papal Concert to Commemorate the Holocaust\". It was the first-ever Vatican event dedicated to the memory of the six million Jews murdered in World War II. This concert, which was conceived and conducted by American conductor Gilbert Levine, was attended by the Chief Rabbi of Rome Elio Toaff, the President of Italy Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, and survivors of the Holocaust from around the world. The Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, actor Richard Dreyfuss and cellist Lynn Harrell performed on this occasion under Levine's direction. On the morning of the concert, the pope received the attending members of survivor community in a special audience in the Apostolic Palace.\n\nIn March 2000, John Paul II visited Yad Vashem, the national Holocaust memorial in Israel, and later made history by touching one of the holiest sites in Judaism, the Western Wall in Jerusalem, placing a letter inside it (in which he prayed for forgiveness for the actions against Jews). In part of his address he said: \"I assure the Jewish people the Catholic Church … is deeply saddened by the hatred, acts of persecution and displays of anti-Semitism directed against the Jews by Christians at any time and in any place,\" he added that there were \"no words strong enough to deplore the terrible tragedy of the Holocaust.\" Israeli cabinet minister Rabbi Michael Melchior, who hosted the pope's visit, said he was \"very moved\" by the pope's gesture.\n\nIt was beyond history, beyond memory.\n\nWe are deeply saddened by the behaviour of those who in the course of history have caused these children of yours to suffer, and asking your forgiveness we wish to commit ourselves to genuine brotherhood with the people of the Covenant.\n\nIn October 2003, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) issued a statement congratulating John Paul II on entering the 25th year of his papacy. In January 2005, John Paul II became the first pope known to receive a priestly blessing from a rabbi, when Rabbis Benjamin Blech, Barry Dov Schwartz, and Jack Bemporad visited the Pontiff at Clementine Hall in the Apostolic Palace.\n\nImmediately after John Paul II's death, the ADL said in a statement that he had revolutionised Catholic-Jewish relations, saying, \"more change for the better took place in his 27-year Papacy than in the nearly 2,000 years before.\" In another statement issued by the Australia/Israel & Jewish Affairs Council, Director Dr Colin Rubenstein said, \"The Pope will be remembered for his inspiring spiritual leadership in the cause of freedom and humanity. He achieved far more in terms of transforming relations with both the Jewish people and the State of Israel than any other figure in the history of the Catholic Church.\"\n\nIn an interview with the Polish Press Agency, Michael Schudrich, chief rabbi of Poland, said that never in history did anyone do as much for Christian-Jewish dialogue as Pope John Paul II, adding that many Jews had a greater respect for the late pope than for some rabbis. Schudrich praised John Paul II for condemning anti-Semitism as a sin, which no previous pope had done.\n\nOn John Paul II's beatification the Chief Rabbi of Rome Riccardo Di Segni said in an interview with the Vatican newspaper \"L'Osservatore Romano\" that \"John Paul II was revolutionary because he tore down a thousand-year wall of Catholic distrust of the Jewish world.\" Meanwhile, Elio Toaff, the former Chief Rabbi of Rome, said that: \n\nRemembrance of the Pope Karol Wojtyła will remain strong in the collective Jewish memory because of his appeals to fraternity and the spirit of tolerance, which excludes all violence. In the stormy history of relations between Roman popes and Jews in the ghetto in which they were closed for over three centuries in humiliating circumstances, John Paul II is a bright figure in his uniqueness. In relations between our two great religions in the new century that was stained with bloody wars and the plague of racism, the heritage of John Paul II remains one of the few spiritual islands guaranteeing survival and human progress.\n\nFrom 15 to 19 November 1980, John Paul II visited West Germany on his first trip to a country with a large Lutheran Protestant population. In Mainz, he met with leaders of the Evangelical Church in Germany, and with representatives of other Christian denominations.\n\nOn 11 December 1983, John Paul II participated in an ecumenical service in the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Rome, the first papal visit ever to a Lutheran church. The visit took place 500 years after the birth of Martin Luther, the German Augustinian monk who initiated the Protestant Reformation.\n\nIn his apostolic pilgrimage to Norway, Iceland, Finland, Denmark and Sweden of June 1989, John Paul II became the first pope to visit countries with Lutheran majorities. In addition to celebrating Mass with Catholic believers, he participated in ecumenical services at places that had been Catholic shrines before the Reformation: Nidaros Cathedral in Norway; near St. Olav's Church at Thingvellir in Iceland; Turku Cathedral in Finland; Roskilde Cathedral in Denmark; and Uppsala Cathedral in Sweden.\n\nOn 31 October 1999, (the 482nd anniversary of Reformation Day, Martin Luther's posting of the 95 Theses), representatives of the Vatican and the Lutheran World Federation (LWF) signed a Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification, as a gesture of unity. The signing was a fruit of a theological dialogue that had been going on between the LWF and the Vatican since 1965.\n\nAs he entered St. Peter's Square to address an audience on 13 May 1981, Pope John Paul II was shot and critically wounded by Mehmet Ali Ağca, an expert Turkish gunman who was a member of the militant fascist group Grey Wolves. The assassin used a Browning 9 mm semi-automatic pistol, shooting the pope in the abdomen and perforating his colon and small intestine multiple times. John Paul II was rushed into the Vatican complex and then to the Gemelli Hospital. On the way to the hospital, he lost consciousness. Even though the two bullets missed his mesenteric artery and abdominal aorta, he lost nearly three-quarters of his blood. He underwent five hours of surgery to treat his wounds. Surgeons performed a colostomy, temporarily rerouting the upper part of the large intestine to let the damaged lower part heal. When he briefly regained consciousness before being operated on, he instructed the doctors not to remove his Brown Scapular during the operation. One of the few people allowed in to see him at the Gemelli Clinic was one of his closest friends philosopher Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka, who arrived on Saturday 16 May and kept him company while he recovered from emergency surgery. The pope later stated that Our Lady of Fátima helped keep him alive throughout his ordeal.\nCould I forget that the event in St. Peter's Square took place on the day and at the hour when the first appearance of the Mother of Christ to the poor little peasants has been remembered for over sixty years at Fátima, Portugal? For in everything that happened to me on that very day, I felt that extraordinary motherly protection and care, which turned out to be stronger than the deadly bullet.\n\nAğca was caught and restrained by a nun and other bystanders until police arrived. He was sentenced to life imprisonment. Two days after Christmas in 1983, John Paul II visited Ağca in prison. John Paul II and Ağca spoke privately for about twenty minutes. John Paul II said, \"What we talked about will have to remain a secret between him and me. I spoke to him as a brother whom I have pardoned and who has my complete trust.\"\n\nNumerous other theories were advanced to explain the assassination attempt, some of them controversial. One such theory, advanced by Michael Ledeen and heavily pushed by the United States Central Intelligence Agency at the time of the assassination but never substantiated by evidence, was that the Soviet Union was behind the attempt on John Paul II's life in retaliation for the pope's support of Solidarity, the Catholic, pro-democratic Polish workers' movement. This theory was supported by the 2006 Mitrokhin Commission, set up by Silvio Berlusconi and headed by \"Forza Italia\" senator Paolo Guzzanti, which alleged that Communist Bulgarian security departments were utilised to prevent the Soviet Union's role from being uncovered, and concluded that Soviet military intelligence \"(Glavnoje Razvedyvatel'noje Upravlenije)\", not the KGB, were responsible. Russian Foreign Intelligence Service spokesman Boris Labusov called the accusation \"absurd\". The pope declared during a May 2002 visit to Bulgaria that the country's Soviet-bloc-era leadership had nothing to do with the assassination attempt. However, his secretary, Cardinal Stanisław Dziwisz, alleged in his book \"A Life with Karol\", that the pope was convinced privately that the former Soviet Union was behind the attack. It was later discovered that many of John Paul II's aides had foreign-government attachments; Bulgaria and Russia disputed the Italian commission's conclusions, pointing out that the pope had publicly denied the Bulgarian connection.\n\nA second assassination attempt was made on 12 May 1982, just a day before the anniversary of the first attempt on his life, in Fátima, Portugal when a man tried to stab John Paul II with a bayonet. He was stopped by security guards. Stanisław Dziwisz later said that John Paul II had been injured during the attempt but managed to hide a non-life-threatening wound. The assailant, a traditionalist Catholic Spanish priest named Juan María Fernández y Krohn, had been ordained as a priest by Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre of the Society of Saint Pius X and was opposed to the changes made by the Second Vatican Council, claiming that the pope was an agent of Communist Moscow and of the Marxist Eastern Bloc. Fernández y Krohn subsequently left the priesthood and served three years of a six-year sentence. The ex-priest was treated for mental illness and then expelled from Portugal to become a solicitor in Belgium.\n\nThe Al-Qaeda-funded Bojinka plot planned to kill John Paul II during a visit to the Philippines during World Youth Day 1995 celebrations. On 15 January 1995 a suicide bomber was planning to dress as a priest and detonate a bomb when the pope passed in his motorcade on his way to the San Carlos Seminary in Makati City. The assassination was supposed to divert attention from the next phase of the operation. However, a chemical fire inadvertently started by the cell alerted police to their whereabouts, and all were arrested a week before the pope's visit, and confessed to the plot.\n\nIn 2009 John Koehler, a journalist and former army intelligence officer, published \"Spies in the Vatican: The Soviet Union's Cold War Against the Catholic Church\". Mining mostly East German and Polish secret police archives, Koehler says the assassination attempts were \"KGB-backed\" and gives details. During John Paul II's papacy there were many clerics within the Vatican who on nomination, declined to be ordained, and then mysteriously left the church. There is wide speculation that they were, in reality, KGB agents.\n\nJohn Paul II apologised to many groups that had suffered at the hands of the Catholic Church through the years. Before becoming pope he had been a prominent editor and supporter of initiatives such as the Letter of Reconciliation of the Polish Bishops to the German Bishops from 1965. As pope, he officially made public apologies for over 100 wrongdoings, including:\nOn 20 November 2001, from a laptop in the Vatican, Pope John Paul II sent his first e-mail apologising for the Catholic sex abuse cases, the Church-backed \"Stolen Generations\" of Aboriginal children in Australia, and to China for the behaviour of Catholic missionaries in colonial times.\n\nWhen he became pope in 1978 at the age of 58, John Paul II was an avid sportsman. He was extremely healthy and active, jogging in the Vatican gardens, weight training, swimming, and hiking in the mountains. He was fond of football. The media contrasted the new pope's athleticism and trim figure to the poor health of John Paul I and Paul VI, the portliness of John XXIII and the constant claims of ailments of Pius XII. The only modern pope with a fitness regimen had been Pope Pius XI (1922–1939), who was an avid mountaineer. An \"Irish Independent\" article in the 1980s labelled John Paul II the \"keep-fit pope\".\n\nHowever, after over twenty-five years as pope, two assassination attempts, one of which injured him severely, and a number of cancer scares, John Paul's physical health declined. In 2001 he was diagnosed as suffering from Parkinson's disease. International observers had suspected this for some time, but it was only publicly acknowledged by the Vatican in 2003. Despite difficulty speaking more than a few sentences at a time, trouble hearing, and severe osteoarthrosis, he continued to tour the world although rarely walking in public.\n\nPope John Paul II was hospitalised with breathing problems caused by a bout of influenza on 1 February 2005. He left the hospital on 10 February, but was subsequently hospitalised again with breathing problems two weeks later and underwent a tracheotomy.\n\nOn 31 March 2005, following a urinary tract infection, he developed septic shock, a form of infection with a high fever and low blood pressure, but was not hospitalised. Instead, he was monitored by a team of consultants at his private residence. This was taken as an indication by the pope, and those close to him, that he was nearing death; it would have been in accordance with his wishes to die in the Vatican. Later that day, Vatican sources announced that John Paul II had been given the Anointing of the Sick by his friend and secretary Stanisław Dziwisz. The day before his death, one of his closest personal friends, Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka visited him at his bedside. During the final days of the pope's life, the lights were kept burning through the night where he lay in the Papal apartment on the top floor of the Apostolic Palace. Tens of thousands of people assembled and held vigil in St. Peter's Square and the surrounding streets for two days. Upon hearing of this, the dying pope was said to have stated: \"I have searched for you, and now you have come to me, and I thank you.\"\n\nOn Saturday, 2 April 2005, at approximately 15:30 CEST, John Paul II spoke his final words in Polish, \"Pozwólcie mi odejść do domu Ojca\" (\"Allow me to depart to the house of the Father\"), to his aides, and fell into a coma about four hours later. The Mass of the vigil of the Second Sunday of Easter commemorating the canonisation of Saint Maria Faustina on 30 April 2000, had just been celebrated at his bedside, presided over by Stanisław Dziwisz and two Polish associates. Present at the bedside was a cardinal from Ukraine, who served as a priest with John Paul in Poland, along with Polish nuns of the Congregation of the Sisters Servants of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus, who ran the papal household. Pope John Paul II died in his private apartment at 21:37 CEST (19:37 UTC) of heart failure from profound hypotension and complete circulatory collapse from septic shock, 46 days before his 85th birthday. His death was verified when an electrocardiogram that ran for 20 minutes showed a flatline.\nHe had no close family by the time of his death; his feelings are reflected in his words written in 2000 at the end of his Last Will and Testament. Stanisław Dziwisz later said he had not burned the pontiff's personal notes despite the request being part of the will.\n\nThe death of the pontiff set in motion rituals and traditions dating back to medieval times. The Rite of Visitation took place from 4 April 2005 to 7 April 2005 at St. Peter's Basilica. John Paul II's testament, published on 7 April 2005, revealed that the pontiff contemplated being buried in his native Poland but left the final decision to The College of Cardinals, which in passing, preferred burial beneath St. Peter's Basilica, honouring the pontiff's request to be placed \"in bare earth\".\n\nThe Requiem Mass held on 8 April 2005 was said to have set world records both for attendance and number of heads of state present at a funeral. \"(See: List of Dignitaries.)\" It was the single largest gathering of heads of state in history, surpassing the funerals of Winston Churchill (1965) and Josip Broz Tito (1980). Four kings, five queens, at least 70 presidents and prime ministers, and more than 14 leaders of other religions attended alongside the faithful. It is likely to have been the largest single pilgrimage of Christianity ever with numbers estimated in excess of four million mourners gathering in and around Vatican City. Between 250,000 and 300,000 watched the event from within the Vatican's walls.\n\nThe Dean of the College of Cardinals, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, conducted the ceremony. John Paul II was interred in the grottoes under the basilica, the Tomb of the Popes. He was lowered into a tomb created in the same alcove previously occupied by the remains of Pope John XXIII. The alcove had been empty since John XXIII's remains had been moved into the main body of the basilica after his beatification.\n\nUpon the death of John Paul II, a number of clergy at the Vatican and laymen began referring to the late pontiff as \"John Paul the Great\" — in theory only the fourth pope to be so acclaimed. Cardinal Angelo Sodano specifically referred to John Paul as \"the Great\" in his published written homily for the pope's funeral Mass of Repose. The South African Catholic newspaper \"The Southern Cross\" has referred to him in print as \"John Paul II the Great\". Some Catholic educational institutions in the US have additionally changed their names to incorporate \"the Great\", including John Paul the Great Catholic University and schools called some variant of John Paul the Great High School.\n\nScholars of canon law say that there is no official process for declaring a pope \"Great\"; the title simply establishes itself through popular and continued usage, as was the case with celebrated secular leaders (for example, Alexander III of Macedon became popularly known as Alexander the Great). The three popes who today commonly are known as \"Great\" are Leo I, who reigned from 440–461 and persuaded Attila the Hun to withdraw from Rome; Gregory I, 590–604, after whom the Gregorian Chant is named; and Pope Nicholas I, 858–867, who consolidated the Catholic Church in the Western world in the Middle Ages.\n\nJohn Paul's successor, Benedict XVI, has not used the term directly in public speeches, but has made oblique references to \"the great Pope John Paul II\" in his first address from the loggia of St. Peter's Basilica, at the 20th World Youth Day in Germany 2005 when he said in Polish: \"As the great Pope John Paul II would say: Keep the flame of faith alive in your lives and your people\"; and in May 2006 during a visit to Poland where he repeatedly made references to \"the great John Paul\" and \"my great predecessor\".\n\n\nInspired by calls of \"Santo Subito!\" (\"[Make him a] Saint Immediately!\") from the crowds gathered during the funeral Mass that he performed, Benedict XVI began the beatification process for his predecessor, bypassing the normal restriction that five years must pass after a person's death before beginning the beatification process. In an audience with Pope Benedict XVI, Camillo Ruini, Vicar General of the Diocese of Rome, who was responsible for promoting the cause for canonisation of any person who died within that diocese, cited \"exceptional circumstances\", which suggested that the waiting period could be waived. This decision was announced on 13 May 2005, the Feast of Our Lady of Fátima and the 24th anniversary of the assassination attempt on John Paul II at St. Peter's Square.\n\nIn early 2006, it was reported that the Vatican was investigating a possible miracle associated with John Paul II. Sister Marie Simon-Pierre, a French nun and member of the Congregation of Little Sisters of Catholic Maternity Wards, confined to her bed by\nParkinson's disease, was reported to have experienced a \"complete and lasting cure after members of her community prayed for the intercession of Pope John Paul II\". , Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre, then 46, was working again at a maternity hospital run by her religious institute.\n\n\"I was sick and now I am cured,\" she told reporter Gerry Shaw. \"I am cured, but it is up to the church to say whether it was a miracle or not.\"\n\nOn 28 May 2006, Pope Benedict XVI celebrated Mass before an estimated 900,000 people in John Paul II's native Poland. During his homily, he encouraged prayers for the early canonisation of John Paul II and stated that he hoped canonisation would happen \"in the near future\".\n\nIn January 2007, Cardinal Stanisław Dziwisz announced that the interview phase of the beatification process, in Italy and Poland, was nearing completion. In February 2007, second class relics of Pope John Paul II—pieces of white papal cassocks he used to wear—were freely distributed with prayer cards for the cause, a typical pious practice after a saintly Catholic's death. On 8 March 2007, the Vicariate of Rome announced that the diocesan phase of John Paul's cause for beatification was at an end. Following a ceremony on 2 April 2007—the second anniversary of the Pontiff's death—the cause proceeded to the scrutiny of the committee of lay, clerical, and episcopal members of the Vatican's Congregation for the Causes of Saints, to conduct a separate investigation. On the fourth anniversary of Pope John Paul's death, 2 April 2009, Cardinal Dziwisz, told reporters of a presumed miracle that had recently occurred at the former pope's tomb in St. Peter's Basilica. A nine-year-old Polish boy from Gdańsk, who was suffering from kidney cancer and was completely unable to walk, had been visiting the tomb with his parents. On leaving St. Peter's Basilica, the boy told them, \"I want to walk,\" and began walking normally. On 16 November 2009, a panel of reviewers at the Congregation for the Causes of Saints voted unanimously that Pope John Paul II had lived a life of heroic virtue. On 19 December 2009, Pope Benedict XVI signed the first of two decrees needed for beatification and proclaimed John Paul II \"Venerable\", asserting that he had lived a heroic, virtuous life. The second vote and the second signed decree certifying the authenticity of the first miracle, the curing of Sister Marie Simon-Pierre, a French nun, from Parkinson's disease. Once the second decree is signed, the \"positio\" (the report on the cause, with documentation about his life and writings and with information on the cause) is complete. He can then be beatified. Some speculated that he would be beatified sometime during (or soon after) the month of the 32nd anniversary of his 1978 election, in October 2010. As Monsignor Oder noted, this course would have been possible if the second decree were signed in time by Benedict XVI, stating that a posthumous miracle directly attributable to his intercession had occurred, completing the positio.\nThe Vatican announced on 14 January 2011 that Pope Benedict XVI had confirmed the miracle involving Sister Marie Simon-Pierre and that John Paul II was to be beatified on 1 May, the Feast of Divine Mercy. 1 May is commemorated in former communist countries, such as Poland, and some Western European countries as May Day, and John Paul II was well known for his contributions to communism's relatively peaceful demise. In March 2011 the Polish mint issued a gold 1,000 Polish złoty coin (equivalent to US$350), with the Pope's image to commemorate his beatification.\n\nOn 29 April 2011, John Paul II's coffin was exhumed from the grotto beneath St. Peter's Basilica ahead of his beatification, as tens of thousands of people arrived in Rome for one of the biggest events since his funeral. John Paul II's remains (in a closed coffin) were placed in front of the Basilica's main altar, where believers could pay their respect before and after the beatification mass in St. Peter's Square on 1 May 2011. On 3 May 2011 his remains were reinterred in the marble altar in Pier Paolo Cristofari's Chapel of St. Sebastian, where Pope Innocent XI was buried. This more prominent location, next to the Chapel of the Pietà, the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament, and statues of Popes Pius XI and Pius XII, was intended to allow more pilgrims to view his memorial.\n\nIn July 2012, a Colombian man, Marco Fidel Rojas, the former mayor of Huila, Colombia, testified that he was \"miraculously cured\" of Parkinson's disease after a trip to Rome where he met John Paul II and prayed with him. Dr. Antonio Schlesinger Piedrahita, a renowned neurologist in Colombia, has certified Fidel's healing. The documentation has been sent to the Vatican office for sainthood causes.\n\nTo be eligible for canonisation (being declared a saint) by the Catholic Church, two miracles must be attributed to a candidate.\n\nThe first miracle attributed to John Paul was his healing a case of Parkinson's disease, which was recognised during the beatification process. According to an article on the Catholic News Service (CNS) dated 23 April 2013, a Vatican commission of doctors concluded that a healing had no natural (medical) explanation, which is the first requirement for a claimed miracle to be officially documented.\nThe second miracle was deemed to have taken place shortly after the late pope's beatification on 1 May 2011; it was reported to be the healing of Costa Rican woman Floribeth Mora of an otherwise terminal brain aneurysm. A Vatican panel of expert theologians examined the evidence, determined that it was directly attributable to the intercession of John Paul II, and recognised it as miraculous. The next stage was for Cardinals who compose the membership of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints to give their opinion to Pope Francis to decides whether to sign and promulgate the decree and set a date for canonisation.\n\nOn 4 July 2013, Pope Francis confirmed his approval of John Paul II's canonisation, formally recognising the second miracle attributed to his intercession. He was canonised together with Pope John XXIII. The date of the canonisation was on 27 April 2014, Divine Mercy Sunday.\n\nThe canonisation Mass for Blessed Popes John Paul II and John XXIII, was celebrated by Pope Francis (with Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI), on 27 April 2014 in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican (Pope John Paul had died on vigil of Divine Mercy Sunday in 2005). About 150 cardinals and 700 bishops concelebrated the Mass, and at least 500,000 people attended the Mass, with an estimated 300,000 others watching from video screens placed around Rome.\n\nJohn Paul II was widely criticised for a variety of his views, including his opposition to the ordination of women and use of contraception, his support for the Second Vatican Council and its reform of the liturgy, and his response to child sexual abuse within the Church.\n\nJohn Paul II was criticised by representatives of the victims of clergy sexual abuse for failing to respond quickly enough to the Catholic sex abuse crisis. In his response, he stated that \"there is no place in the priesthood and religious life for those who would harm the young.\" The Church instituted reforms to prevent future abuse by requiring background checks for Church employees and, because a significant majority of victims were boys, disallowing ordination of men with \"deep-seated homosexual tendencies\". They now require dioceses faced with an allegation to alert the authorities, conduct an investigation and remove the accused from duty. In 2008, the Church asserted that the scandal was a very serious problem and estimated that it was \"probably caused by 'no more than 1 per cent' \" (or 5,000) of the over 500,000 Catholic priests worldwide.\n\nIn April 2002, John Paul II, despite being frail from Parkinson's disease, summoned all the American cardinals to the Vatican to discuss possible solutions to the issue of sexual abuse in the American Church. He asked them to \"diligently investigate accusations\". John Paul II suggested that American bishops be more open and transparent in dealing with such scandals and emphasised the role of seminary training to prevent sexual deviance among future priests. In what \"The New York Times\" called \"unusually direct language\", John Paul condemned the arrogance of priests that led to the scandals:\n\nPriests and candidates for the priesthood often live at a level both materially and educationally superior to that of their families and the members of their own age group. It is therefore very easy for them to succumb to the temptation of thinking of themselves as better than others. When this happens, the ideal of priestly service and self-giving dedication can fade, leaving the priest dissatisfied and disheartened.\n\nThe pope read a statement intended for the American cardinals, calling the sex abuse \"an appalling sin\" and said the priesthood had no room for such men.\n\nIn 2002, Archbishop Juliusz Paetz, the Catholic Archbishop of Poznań, was accused of molesting seminarians. Pope John Paul II accepted his resignation, and placed sanctions on him, prohibiting Paetz from exercising his ministry as bishop. These restrictions were lifted in 2010 by Pope Benedict XVI.\n\nIn 2003, John Paul II reiterated that \"there is no place in the priesthood and religious life for those who would harm the young.\" In April 2003, a three-day conference was held, titled \"Abuse of Children and Young People by Catholic Priests and Religious\", where eight non-Catholic psychiatric experts were invited to speak to near all Vatican dicasteries' representatives. The panel of experts overwhelmingly opposed implementation of policies of \"zero-tolerance\" such as was proposed by the US Conference of Catholic Bishops. One expert called such policies a \"case of overkill\" since they do not permit flexibility to allow for differences among individual cases.\n\nIn 2004, John Paul II recalled Bernard Francis Law to be Archpriest of the Papal Basilica of Saint Mary Major in Rome. Law had previously resigned as archbishop of Boston in 2002 in response to the Catholic Church sexual abuse cases after Church documents were revealed that suggested he had covered up sexual abuse committed by priests in his archdiocese. Law resigned from this position in November 2011.\n\nJohn Paul II was a firm supporter of the Legion of Christ, and in 1998 discontinued investigations into sexual misconduct by its leader Marcial Maciel, who in 2005 resigned his leadership and was later requested by the Vatican to withdraw from his ministry.\n\nJohn Paul II was criticised for his support of the Opus Dei prelature and the 2002 canonisation of its founder, Josemaría Escrivá, whom he called \"the saint of ordinary life\". Other movements and religious organisations of the Church went decidedly under his wing Legion of Christ, the Neocatechumenal Way, Schoenstatt, the charismatic movement, etc.) and he was accused repeatedly of taking a soft hand with them, especially in the case of Marcial Maciel, founder of the Legion of Christ.\n\nIn 1984 John Paul II appointed Joaquín Navarro-Valls, a member of Opus Dei, as Director of the Vatican Press Office. An Opus Dei spokesman said that \"the influence of Opus Dei in the Vatican has been exaggerated\". Of the nearly 200 cardinals in the Catholic Church, only two are known to be members of Opus Dei.\n\nPope John Paul was alleged to have links with Banco Ambrosiano, an Italian bank that collapsed in 1982. At the centre of the bank's failure was its chairman, Roberto Calvi, and his membership in the illegal Masonic Lodge Propaganda Due (aka P2). The Vatican Bank was Banco Ambrosiano's main shareholder, and the death of Pope John Paul I in 1978 is rumoured to be linked to the Ambrosiano scandal.\n\nCalvi, often referred to as \"God's Banker\", was also involved the Vatican Bank, Istituto per le Opere di Religione, in his dealings, and was close to Bishop Paul Marcinkus, the bank's chairman. Ambrosiano also provided funds for political parties in Italy, and for both the Somoza dictatorship in Nicaragua and its Sandinista opposition. It has been widely alleged that the Vatican Bank provided money for Solidarity in Poland.\n\nCalvi used his complex network of overseas banks and companies to move money out of Italy, to inflate share prices, and to arrange massive unsecured loans. In 1978, the Bank of Italy produced a report on Ambrosiano that predicted future disaster. On 5 June 1982, two weeks before the collapse of Banco Ambrosiano, Calvi had written a letter of warning to Pope John Paul II, stating that such a forthcoming event would \"provoke a catastrophe of unimaginable proportions in which the Church will suffer the gravest damage\". On 18 June 1982 Calvi's body was found hanging from scaffolding beneath Blackfriars Bridge in the financial district of London. Calvi's clothing was stuffed with bricks, and contained cash valued at US$14,000, in three different currencies.\n\nIn addition to all the criticism from those demanding modernisation, traditionalist Catholics sometimes denounced him as well. These issues included demanding a return to the Tridentine Mass and repudiation of the reforms instituted after the Second Vatican Council, such as the use of the vernacular language in the formerly Latin Roman Rite Mass, ecumenism, and the principle of religious liberty. He also was criticised for allowing and appointing liberal bishops in their sees and thus silently promoting Modernism, which was firmly condemned as the \"synthesis of all heresies\" by his predecessor Pope Pius X. In 1988, the controversial traditionalist Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre, founder of the Society of St. Pius X (1970), was excommunicated under John Paul II because of the unapproved ordination of four bishops, which was called by the Holy See a \"schismatic act\".\n\nThe World Day of Prayer for Peace, with a meeting in Assisi, Italy, in 1986, in which the pope prayed only with the Christians, was criticised for giving the impression that syncretism and indifferentism were openly embraced by the Papal Magisterium. When a second 'Day of Prayer for Peace in the World' was held, in 2002, it was condemned as confusing the laity and compromising to false religions. Likewise criticised was his kissing of the Qur'an in Damascus, Syria, on one of his travels on 6 May 2001. His call for religious freedom was not always supported; bishops like Antônio de Castro Mayer promoted religious tolerance, but at the same time rejected the Vatican II principle of religious liberty as being liberalist and already condemned by Pope Pius IX in his \"Syllabus errorum\" (1864) and at the First Vatican Council.\n\nJohn Paul's position against artificial birth control, including the use of condoms to prevent the spread of HIV, was harshly criticised by doctors and AIDS activists, who said that it led to countless deaths and millions of AIDS orphans. Critics have also claimed that large families are caused by lack of contraception and exacerbate Third World poverty and problems such as street children in South America. The Catholic Agency for Overseas Development published a paper stating, \"Any strategy that enables a person to move from a higher-risk towards the lower end of the continuum, [we] believe, is a valid risk reduction strategy.\"\n\nThere was strong criticism of the pope for the controversy surrounding the alleged use of charitable social programmes as a means of converting people in the Third World to Catholicism. The pope created an uproar in the Indian subcontinent when he suggested that a great harvest of faith would be witnessed on the subcontinent in the third Christian millennium.\n\nIn 1988, when Pope John Paul II was delivering a speech to the European Parliament, Ian Paisley, the leader of the Democratic Unionist Party and Moderator of the Free Presbyterian Church of Ulster, shouted \"I denounce you as the Antichrist!\" and held up a red banner reading \"Pope John Paul II ANTICHRIST\". Otto von Habsburg (the last Crown Prince of Austria-Hungary), an MEP for Germany, snatched Paisley's banner, tore it up and, along with other MEPs, helped eject him from the chamber. The pope continued with his address after Paisley had been ejected.\n\nA number of quotes about the apparitions of Međugorje, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have been attributed to John Paul II. In 1998, when a certain German gathered various statements that were supposedly made by the pope and Cardinal Ratzinger, and then forwarded them to the Vatican in the form of a memorandum, Ratzinger responded in writing on 22 July 1998: \"The only thing I can say regarding statements on Međugorje ascribed to the Holy Father and myself is that they are complete invention.\"\n\nSome Catholic theologians disagreed with the call for the beatification of John Paul II. Eleven dissident theologians, including Jesuit professor José María Castillo and Italian theologian Giovanni Franzoni, said that his stance against contraception and the ordination of women as well as the Church scandals during his pontificate presented \"facts which according to their consciences and convictions should be an obstacle to beatification\". Some traditionalist Catholics opposed his beatification and canonisation for his views on liturgy and participation in prayer with non-Christians.\n\nOn 27 January 2014, it was reported that a relic of John Paul II, a vial containing drops of his blood, had been stolen from the church of San Pietro della Ienca north of L'Aquila in the mountainous Abruzzo region of central Italy, a region where he had loved to go on skiing vacations. Cardinal Dziwisz had previously given the vial to the church in recognition of its connections to the Pontiff. Because there are only three relics containing his blood, few or no other items were disturbed, and it would be difficult to sell, the investigating Italian police believe it was a commissioned theft, and speculated that the blood might be used in Satanic rites. The theft sparked a major search for the culprits. Two men confessed to the crime, and an iron reliquary and a stolen cross, but not the relic, were recovered from the grounds of a drug rehabilitation facility in L'Aquila on 30 January; the blood was recovered shortly after from rubbish bins near where the reliquary had been found.\n\nHaving played the game himself as a goalkeeper, John Paul II was a fan of English football team Liverpool, where his compatriot Jerzy Dudek played in the same position.\n\nIn 1973, while still the archbishop of Kraków, Karol Wojtyła befriended a Polish-born, later American philosopher, Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka. The thirty-two-year friendship (and occasional academic collaboration) lasted until his death. She served as his host when he visited New England in 1976 and photos show them together on skiing and camping trips. Letters that he wrote to her were part of a collection of documents sold by Tymieniecka's estate in 2008 to the National Library of Poland. According to the BBC the library had initially kept the letters from public view, partly because of John Paul's path to sainthood, but a library official announced in February 2016 the letters would be made public. In February 2016 the BBC documentary program \"Panorama\" reported that John Paul II had apparently had a 'close relationship' with the Polish-born philosopher. The pair exchanged personal letters over 30 years, and Stourton believes that Tymieniecka had confessed her love for Wojtyła. The Vatican described the documentary as \"more smoke than mirrors\", and Tymieniecka denied being involved with John Paul II.\n\nWriters Carl Bernstein, the veteran investigative journalist of the Watergate scandal, and Vatican expert Marco Politi, were the first journalists to talk to Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka in the 1990s about her importance in John Paul's life. They interviewed her and dedicated 20 pages to her in their 1996 book \"His Holiness\".<ref name=\"Bernstein/Politi\">Did Pope John Paul II Have a Secret Lover? by Barbi Latzu Nadeau, 15 February 2016</ref> Bernstein and Politi even asked her if she had ever developed any romantic relationship with John Paul II, \"however one-sided it might have been.\" She responded, \"No, I never fell in love with the cardinal. How could I fall in love with a middle-aged clergyman? Besides, I'm a married woman.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11511378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11511378", "title": "Psychogenic disease", "text": "Psychogenic disease\n\nPsychogenic disease (or psychogenic illness) is a name given to physical illnesses that are believed to arise from emotional or mental stressors, or from psychological or psychiatric disorders. It is most commonly applied to illnesses where a physical abnormality or other biomarker has not yet been identified. In the absence of such \"biological\" evidence of an underlying disease process, it is often assumed that the illness must have a psychological cause, even if the patient shows no indications of being under stress or of having a psychological or psychiatric disorder.\n\nExamples of diseases that are believed by many to be psychogenic include psychogenic seizures, psychogenic polydipsia, psychogenic tremor and psychogenic pain.\n\nThere are problems with the assumption that all medically unexplained illness must have a psychological cause. It always remains possible that genetic, biochemical, electrophysiological or other abnormalities may be present which we do not have the technology or background to identify.\n\nThe term psychogenic disease is often used in a similar way to psychosomatic disease. However, the term \"psychogenic\" usually implies that psychological factors played a key causal role in the development of the illness. The term \"psychosomatic\" is often used in a broader way to describe illnesses with a known medical cause where psychological factors may nonetheless play a role (e.g., asthma can be exacerbated by anxiety).\n\n"}
{"id": "1677803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1677803", "title": "Regnum Christi", "text": "Regnum Christi\n\nRegnum Christi is an international Catholic Movement. It is open to all lay Catholics and in addition has three consecrated branches the Legion of Christ (seminarians and priests), consecrated women, and consecrated men. Regnum Christi is dedicated to promoting the Catholic faith. Their motto is \"Love Christ, Serve People, Build the Church.\" \n\nIt was founded by Marcial Maciel, who led it until 2005. In 2006, Maciel was investigated by the Holy See and suspended from his ministry, initially over breaches of celibacy, and following public revelations later confirmed as sustained, over sexual abuse of minors. Maciel died in 2008, aged 87. After Maciel's death, and following more revelations, Pope Benedict XVI ordered an apostolic visitation of the Legion of Christ 2009. At the conclusion of that visitation, Cardinal Velasio De Paolis was delegated to conduct a visitation of Regnum Christi. On October 19, 2012, De Paolis published a cover letter for a summary of the Regnum Christi's charism which he had approved as a working document.\n\nIts spirituality can be described as five loves: love for Christ, love for Mary, love for souls, love for the Church, and love for the Pope.\n\nLove for Christ is, for Regnum Christi members, a personal experience. Through the Gospel, the Cross, and the Eucharist, they come to know Christ intimately, and love him in a passionate way by embracing him as their model of holiness.\n\nLove for Mary flows from imitating Christ; the Blessed Virgin is loved as both Mother of the Church and their mother. Regnum Christi members try to practice her virtues of faith, hope, charity, humility, and cooperation with Christ's plan of redemption.\n\nLove for Souls is expressed in an ardent desire to spread Christ's kingdom in this world and an ardent charity for one's neighbour. Regnum Christi members want Christ to reign in everyone's heart and practice charity with all independent of any external factor.\n\nFinally, there is Regnum Christi's love for Church and Pope. The Church is loved because it is the Body of Christ, and the beginning of his Kingdom on earth. Thus Regnum Christi members honor her by faith, submit to her in obedience, win souls for her through evangelization, and put her above all other earthly things in their lives. This love of the Church leads many in Regnum Christi to speak of being always in step with the Church, neither ahead nor behind: a commitment to Catholic Orthodoxy. It also explains the members' special affection for the Pope, who is supported in his charism of primacy and magisterium. All bishops in communion with the Roman Pontiff, as the Apostles' successors and teachers of the Catholic Faith, are likewise honored.\n\nMembers of Regnum Christi make a commitment to specific daily prayers and meditation, weekly meetings, and annual spiritual retreats. They are called to work actively in some concrete way in service to the Catholic Church - usually through specific Regnum Christi apostolates. Its members call these works apostolates. These include those specific Regnum Christi (Mission Youth [Youth for the Third Millennium], Helping Hands Medical Missions, Familia, Conquest, Challenge, and Pure Fashion), and other works in parishes or dioceses.\n\nAs of 2017, there were about 21,500 members in more than 30 countries.\n\nAmong the members of Regnum Christi, there are three degrees of commitment:\n\nThey are non-privately promised lay members of Regnum Christi. 2nd degree members offer a greater service to the Church and the movement.\n\nThese are both the consecrated women, consecrated men, and consecrated religious Legionaries. As of 2010, there were about 900 such members (not counting Legionaries), nearly all women, but also a handful of men. They give up possessions and ties to their former lives much in the way nuns or priests do. They adhere to Vatican-approved statutes that include private vows (poverty, chastity and obedience) in imitation of nuns or religious men who have public vows. This is a new form of consecrated life in the Church with a unique canonical status.\n\nThere is also a special reduced level of commitment for young people who are members of ECyD (Experiences, Convictions and your Decisions). The members of ECyD make commitments to be a better friend of Christ, by saying a few prayers, practicing virtue, and doing some apostolate (service project).\n\nThe first draft of the statutes for Regnum Christi was written and promulgated in 1959. On November 25, 2004, Pope John Paul II personally approved the statutes of the movement (this approval was for the core statutes not every single statute). These statutes define the goals, spirituality, and structure of Regnum Christi. In a November 21, 2011 letter, Cardinal Velasio de Paolis asked the consecrated in Regnum Christi to edit their core set of norms, and took force away from a more extensive set of norms. He set up a small commission to revise them.\n\nRegnum Christi was founded out of the Legion of Christ and is directly related. When the statutes were approved in 2004, it was described as the apostolate of the Legion of Christ to expedite approval. Although the Legion is a distinct entity, its members are closely involved with \"Regnum Christi.\": \"Working with lay people is an essential part of the Legion’s apostolic methodology. The Legionaries carry out their apostolate above all with \"Regnum Christi\" members, forming them in human and Christian virtues, serving them with their priestly ministry, launching them in pastoral action, uniting efforts in their shared mission, and thus spurring on a great variety of works at the service of the Church.\"\nOn October 19, 2012, a working document put forward that the Legion is a branch of the Regnum Christi movement which would make each legionary a Regnum Christi Member.\n\nThe Legion of Christ and Regnum Christi have received criticism both from members within the Catholic Church and without.\n\nOn May 1, 2010 the Vatican issued a statement condemning Maciel as \"immoral\" and acknowledging that Maciel had committed \"true crimes\". Pope Benedict also said he would appoint a delegate to reform the Legionaries’ charism, spirituality and constitutions. Pope Francis proceeded to revolutionize the Legion of Christ. Under the guidance of Cardinal Velasio De Paolis, the congregation announced the order's complete restructuring at its Extraordinary General Chapter in Rome in January 2014.\n\nRegnum Christi Sites\n"}
{"id": "10135606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10135606", "title": "Seven Sins of Medicine", "text": "Seven Sins of Medicine\n\nThe Seven Sins of Medicine, by Richard Asher, are a perspective on medical ethics first published in \"The Lancet\" in 1949.\n\nConsidered as poor personal conduct by physicians (or more typically, medical students) The Seven Sins describes behavior that in itself might not be grounds for professional complaint or discipline but would be considered discourteous, especially in any situation outside of the pompous physician – sick patient scenario.\n\nStill very relevant in medical study and practice, they are:\n\nFor further information see Bruce Rowat's essay.\n"}
{"id": "908106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908106", "title": "Sophrosyne", "text": "Sophrosyne\n\nSophrosyne () is an ancient Greek concept of an ideal of excellence of character and soundness of mind, which when combined in one well-balanced individual leads to other qualities, such as temperance, moderation, prudence, purity, decorum and self-control. In other languages there is no equivalent word.\n\nIn Greek literature sophrosyne is considered an important quality, and is sometimes expressed in opposition to the concept of hubris. A noted example of this occurs in Homer's \"The Iliad\". When Agamemnon decides to take the queen, Briseis, away from Achilles, it is seen as Agamemnon behaving with hubris and lacking sophrosyne. \nIn Homer's \"Odyssey\", Odysseus avoids being turned by Circe the enchantress into an animal by means of a magical herb, moly (symbolizing, by some accounts, sophrosyne), given to him by Athena (Wisdom) and Hermes (Reason). \nHeraclitus's fragment 112 states: \"Sophrosyne is the greatest virtue, and wisdom is speaking and acting the trust, paying heed to the nature of things.\" (σωφρονεῖν ἀρετὴ μεγίστη, καὶ σοφίη ἀληθέα λέγειν καὶ ποιεῖν κατὰ φύσιν ἐπαίοντας.)\n\nThemes connected with \"sophrosyne\" and hubris figure prominently in plays of Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides; \"sophrosyne\" is recognized as a virtue, although debased forms like prudery are criticized. \n\nSophrosyne is an important topic for Plato. It is main subject of the dialogue \"Charmides\", wherein several definitions are proposed but no conclusion reached; however the dramatic context connotes moral purity and innocence. An etymological meaning of sophrosyne as \"moral sanity\" is proposed in \"Cratylus\" 411e. Plato's view of sophrosyne is related to Pythagorean \"harmonia\" (\"Republic\" 430e−432a, 442c) and closely linked with Plato’s \ntripartite division of the soul: \"sophrosyne\" is the harmonious moderation of the appetitive and spirited parts of the soul by the rational part (e.g., \"Phaedrus\" 237c−238e).\n\nFor the Stoic, Zeno of Citium, \"sophrosyne\" is one of the four chief virtues. Later Stoics like Musonius Rufus, Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius took a practical view of \"sophrosyne\" and share a definition of it as the restraint of the appetites. \n\nDemophilus, a Pythagorean philosopher of uncertain date, wrote: \"the vigor of the soul is sophrosyne, the light of a soul free of disturbing passions.\" (Ρώμη ψυχής σωφροσύνη αύτη γαρ ψυχής απαθούς φώς εστιν.)\n\nCicero considered four Latin terms to translate \"sophrosyne\": \"temperantia\" (temperance), \"moderatio\" (moderateness), \"modestia\" (modesty) and \"frugalitas\" (frugality). Through the writings of Lactantius, St. Ambrose and St. Augustine, the virtue's meaning as temperance or \"proper mixture\" became the dominant view in subsequent Western European thought.\n\nSophrosyne is one of the cardinal virtues.\n\nAn adjectival form is \"sophron\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30365", "title": "Taoism", "text": "Taoism\n\nTaoism (, ) or Daoism (), is a religious or philosophical tradition of Chinese origin which emphasizes living in harmony with the \"Tao\" (, also romanized as \"Dao\"). The \"Tao\" is a fundamental idea in most Chinese philosophical schools; in Taoism, however, it denotes the principle that is the source, pattern and substance of everything that exists. Taoism differs from Confucianism by not emphasizing rigid rituals and social order, but is similar in the sense that it is a teaching about the various disciplines for achieving \"perfection\" by becoming one with the unplanned rhythms of the universe called \"the way\" or \"dao\". Taoist ethics vary depending on the particular school, but in general tend to emphasize \"wu wei\" (action without intention), \"naturalness\", simplicity, spontaneity, and the Three Treasures: 慈 \"compassion\", 儉 \"frugality\", and 不敢為天下先 \"humility\".\n\nThe roots of Taoism go back at least to the 4th century BCE. Early Taoism drew its cosmological notions from the School of Yinyang (Naturalists), and was deeply influenced by one of the oldest texts of Chinese culture, the \"I Ching\", which expounds a philosophical system about how to keep human behavior in accordance with the alternating cycles of nature. The \"Legalist\" Shen Buhai (c. 400 – c. 337 BCE) may also have been a major influence, expounding a realpolitik of wu wei. The \"Tao Te Ching\", a compact book containing teachings attributed to Laozi (), is widely considered the keystone work of the Taoist tradition, together with the later writings of Zhuangzi.\n\nBy the Han dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE), the various sources of Taoism had coalesced into a coherent tradition of religious organizations and orders of ritualists in the state of Shu (modern Sichuan). In earlier ancient China, Taoists were thought of as hermits or recluses who did not participate in political life. Zhuangzi was the best known of these, and it is significant that he lived in the south, where he was part of local Chinese shamanic traditions.\n\nFemale shamans played an important role in this tradition, which was particularly strong in the southern state of Chu. Early Taoist movements developed their own institution in contrast to shamanism, but absorbed basic shamanic elements. Shamans revealed basic texts of Taoism from early times down to at least the 20th century. Institutional orders of Taoism evolved in various strains that in more recent times are conventionally grouped into two main branches: Quanzhen Taoism and Zhengyi Taoism. After Laozi and Zhuangzi, the literature of Taoism grew steadily and was compiled in form of a canon—the Daozang—which was published at the behest of the emperor. Throughout Chinese history, Taoism was nominated several times as a state religion. After the 17th century, however, it fell from favor.\n\nTaoism has had a profound influence on Chinese culture in the course of the centuries, and Taoists (, \"masters of the Tao\"), a title traditionally attributed only to the clergy and not to their lay followers, usually take care to note distinction between their ritual tradition and the practices of Chinese folk religion and non-Taoist vernacular ritual orders, which are often mistakenly identified as pertaining to Taoism. Chinese alchemy (especially neidan), Chinese astrology, Chan (Zen) Buddhism, several martial arts, traditional Chinese medicine, feng shui, and many styles of qigong have been intertwined with Taoism throughout history. Beyond China, Taoism also had influence on surrounding societies in Asia.\n\nToday, the Taoist tradition is one of the five religious doctrines officially recognized in the People's Republic of China (PRC) as well as the Republic of China (ROC), and although it does not travel readily from its East Asian roots, it claims adherents in a number of societies, in particular in Hong Kong, Macau, and in Southeast Asia.\n\nSince the introduction of the Pinyin system for romanizing Mandarin Chinese, there have been those who have felt that \"Taoism\" would be more appropriately spelled as \"Daoism\". The Mandarin Chinese pronunciation for the word (\"way, path\") is spelled as \"tao<sup>4\" in the older Wade–Giles romanization system (from which the spelling 'Taoism' is derived) while it is spelled as as \"dào\" in the newer Pinyin romanization system (from which the spelling 'Daoism' is derived). Both the Wade–Giles \"tao<sup>4\" and the Pinyin \"dào\" are intended to be pronounced identically in Mandarin Chinese (like the 'd' in 'dog'), but despite this fact, \"Taoism\" and \"Daoism\" can be pronounced differently in English vernacular.\n\nThe word \"Taoism\" is used to translate different Chinese terms which refer to different aspects of the same tradition and semantic field:\n\nHowever, the discussed distinction is rejected by the majority of Western and Japanese scholars. It is contested by hermeneutic (interpretive) difficulties in the categorization of the different Taoist schools, sects and movements. Taoism does not fall under an umbrella or a definition of a single organized religion like the Abrahamic traditions; nor can it be studied as a mere variant of Chinese folk religion, as although the two share some similar concepts, much of Chinese folk religion is separate from the tenets and core teachings of Taoism. The sinologists Isabelle Robinet and Livia Kohn agree that \"Taoism has never been a unified religion, and has constantly consisted of a combination of teachings based on a variety of original revelations.\"\n\nChung-ying Cheng, a Chinese philosopher, views Taoism as a religion that has been embedded into Chinese history and tradition. \"Whether Confucianism, Daoism, or later Chinese Buddhism, they all fall into this pattern of thinking and organizing and in this sense remain religious, even though individually and intellectually they also assume forms of philosophy and practical wisdom.\" Chung-ying Cheng also noted that the Daoist view of heaven flows mainly from \"observation and meditation, [though] the teaching of the way (dao) can also include the way of heaven independently of human nature\". In Chinese history, the three religions of Buddhism, Daoism and Confucianism stand on their own independent views, and yet are \"involved in a process of attempting to find harmonization and convergence among themselves, so that we can speak of a 'unity of three religious teaching' (sanjiao heyi)\".\n\nTraditionally, the Chinese language does not have terms defining lay people adhering to the doctrines or the practices of Taoism, who fall instead within the field of folk religion. \"Taoist\", in Western sinology, is traditionally used to translate \"daoshi\" (道士, \"master of the Tao\"), thus strictly defining the priests of Taoism, ordained clergymen of a Taoist institution who \"represent Taoist culture on a professional basis\", are experts of Taoist liturgy, and therefore can employ this knowledge and ritual skills for the benefit of a community.\n\nThis role of Taoist priests reflects the definition of Taoism as a \"liturgical framework for the development of local cults\", in other words a scheme or structure for Chinese religion, proposed first by the scholar and Taoist initiate Kristofer Schipper in \"The Taoist Body\" (1986). \"Daoshi\" are comparable to the non-Taoist \"fashi\" (法師, \"ritual masters\") of vernacular traditions (the so-called \"Faism\") within Chinese religion.\n\nThe term \"dàojiàotú\" (), with the meaning of \"Taoist\" as \"lay member or believer of Taoism\", is a modern invention that goes back to the introduction of the Western category of \"organized religion\" in China in the 20th century, but it has no significance for most of Chinese society in which Taoism continues to be an \"order\" of the larger body of Chinese religion.\n\nLaozi is traditionally regarded as one of the founders of Taoism and is closely associated in this context with \"original\" or \"primordial\" Taoism. Whether he actually existed is disputed; however, the work attributed to him—the \"Tao Te Ching\"—is dated to the late 4th century BCE.\n\nTaoism draws its cosmological foundations from the School of Naturalists (in the form of its main elements—yin and yang and the Five Phases), which developed during the Warring States period (4th to 3rd centuries BC).\n\nRobinet identifies four components in the emergence of Taoism:\n\nSome elements of Taoism may be traced to prehistoric folk religions in China that later coalesced into a Taoist tradition. In particular, many Taoist practices drew from the Warring-States-era phenomena of the \"wu\" (connected to the shamanic culture of northern China) and the \"fangshi\" (which probably derived from the \"archivist-soothsayers of antiquity, one of whom supposedly was Laozi himself\"), even though later Taoists insisted that this was not the case. Both terms were used to designate individuals dedicated to \"... magic, medicine, divination... methods of longevity and to ecstatic wanderings\" as well as exorcism; in the case of the \"wu\", \"shamans\" or \"sorcerers\" is often used as a translation. The \"fangshi\" were philosophically close to the School of Naturalists, and relied much on astrological and calendrical speculations in their divinatory activities.\n\nThe first organized form of Taoism, the Tianshi (Celestial Masters') school (later known as Zhengyi school), developed from the Five Pecks of Rice movement at the end of the 2nd century CE; the latter had been founded by Zhang Daoling, who claimed that Laozi appeared to him in the year 142. The Tianshi school was officially recognized by ruler Cao Cao in 215, legitimizing Cao Cao's rise to power in return. Laozi received imperial recognition as a divinity in the mid-2nd century BCE.\n\nTaoism, in form of the Shangqing school, gained official status in China again during the Tang dynasty (618–907), whose emperors claimed Laozi as their relative. The Shangqing movement, however, had developed much earlier, in the 4th century, on the basis of a series of revelations by gods and spirits to a certain Yang Xi in the years between 364 and 370.\n\nBetween 397 and 402, Ge Chaofu compiled a series of scriptures which later served as the foundation of the Lingbao school, which unfolded its greatest influence during the Song dynasty (960–1279). Several Song emperors, most notably Huizong, were active in promoting Taoism, collecting Taoist texts and publishing editions of the \"Daozang.\"\n\nIn the 12th century, the Quanzhen School was founded in Shandong. It flourished during the 13th and 14th century and during the Yuan dynasty became the largest and most important Taoist school in Northern China. The school's most revered master, Qiu Chuji, met with Genghis Khan in 1222 and was successful in influencing the Khan towards exerting more restraint during his brutal conquests. By the Khan's decree, the school also was exempt from taxation.\n\nAspects of Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism were consciously synthesized in the Neo-Confucian school, which eventually became Imperial orthodoxy for state bureaucratic purposes under the Ming (1368–1644).\n\nDuring the Qing Dynasty (1644–1912), however, due to discouragements of the government, many people favored Confucian and Buddhist classics over Taoist works.\n\nDuring the 18th century, the imperial library was constituted, but excluded virtually all Taoist books. By the beginning of the 20th century, Taoism went through many catastrophic events.(As a result, only one complete copy of the Daozang still remained, at the White Cloud Monastery in Beijing).\n\nToday, Taoism is one of five religions recognized by the People's Republic of China. The government regulates its activities through the Chinese Taoist Association. Taoism is freely practiced in Taiwan, where it claims millions of adherents.\n\nTaoism tends to emphasize various themes of the \"Tao Te Ching\" and \"Zhuangzi\", such as naturalness, spontaneity, simplicity, detachment from desires, and most important of all, wu wei. However, the concepts of those keystone texts cannot be equated with Taoism as a whole.\n\n\"Tao\" () literally means \"way\", but can also be interpreted as road, channel, path, doctrine, or line. In Taoism, it is \"the One, which is natural, spontaneous, eternal, nameless, and indescribable. It is at once the beginning of all things and the way in which all things pursue their course.\" It has variously been denoted as the \"flow of the universe\", a \"conceptually necessary ontological ground\", or a demonstration of nature. The Tao also is something that individuals can find immanent in themselves.\n\nThe active expression of Tao is called \"Te\" (also spelled – and pronounced – \"De\", or even \"Teh\"; often translated with \"Virtue\" or \"Power\"; ), in a sense that Te results from an individual living and cultivating the Tao.\n\nThe ambiguous term \"wu-wei\" () constitutes the leading ethical concept in Taoism. \"Wei\" refers to any intentional or deliberated action, while \"wu\" carries the meaning of \"there is no ...\" or \"lacking, without\". Common translations are \"nonaction\", \"effortless action\" or \"action without intent\". The meaning is sometimes emphasized by using the paradoxical expression \"wei wu wei\": \"action without action\".\n\nIn ancient Taoist texts, wu-wei is associated with water through its yielding nature. Taoist philosophy, in accordance with the \"I Ching\", proposes that the universe works harmoniously according to its own ways. When someone exerts their will against the world in a manner that is out of rhythm with the cycles of change, they may disrupt that harmony and unintended consequences may more likely result rather than the willed outcome. Taoism does not identify one's will as the root problem. Rather, it asserts that one must place their will in harmony with the natural universe. Thus, a potentially harmful interference may be avoided, and in this way, goals can be achieved effortlessly. \"By wu-wei, the sage seeks to come into harmony with the great Tao, which itself accomplishes by nonaction.\"\n\nNaturalness (; lit. \"self-such\"，\"self organisation\") is regarded as a central value in Taoism. It describes the \"primordial state\" of all things as well as a basic character of the Tao, and is usually associated with spontaneity and creativity. To attain naturalness, one has to identify with the Tao; this involves freeing oneself from selfishness and desire, and appreciating simplicity.\n\nAn often cited metaphor for naturalness is \"pu\" (; lit. \"uncut wood\"), the \"uncarved block\", which represents the \"original nature... prior to the imprint of culture\" of an individual. It is usually referred to as a state one \"returns\" to.\n\nThe Taoist \"Three Treasures\" or \"Three Jewels\" () comprise the basic virtues of \"ci\" (, usually translated as \"compassion\"), \"jian\" (, usually translated as \"moderation\"), and \"bugan wei tianxia xian\" (, literally \"not daring to act as first under the heavens\", but usually translated as \"humility\").\n\nAs the \"practical, political side\" of Taoist philosophy, Arthur Waley translated them as \"abstention from aggressive war and capital punishment\", \"absolute simplicity of living\", and \"refusal to assert active authority\".\n\nThe Three Treasures can also refer to jing, qi and shen (; jing is usually translated with \"essence\" and shen with \"spirit\"). These terms are elements of the traditional Chinese concept of the human body, which shares its cosmological foundation — Yinyangism or the Naturalists — with Taoism. Within this framework, they play an important role in neidan (\"Taoist Inner Alchemy\").\n\nTaoist cosmology is cyclic; relativity, evolution and 'extremes meet' are main characters. It shares similar views with the School of Naturalists (Yinyang) which was headed by Zou Yan (305 – 240 BCE). The school's tenets harmonized the concepts of the Wu Xing (Five Phases) and yin and yang. In this spirit, the universe is seen as being in a constant process of re-creating itself, as everything that exists is a mere aspect of qi, which, \"condensed, becomes life; diluted, it is indefinite potential\". Qi is in a perpetual transformation between its condensed and diluted state. These two different states of qi, on the other hand, are embodiments of the abstract entities of yin and yang, two complementary extremes that constantly play against and with each other and cannot exist without the other.\n\nHuman beings are seen as a microcosm of the universe, and for example comprise the Wu Xing in form of the zang-fu organs. As a consequence, it is believed that deeper understanding of the universe can be achieved by understanding oneself.\n\nTaoism can be defined as pantheistic, given its philosophical emphasis on the formlessness of the Tao and the primacy of the \"Way\" rather than anthropomorphic concepts of God. This is one of the core beliefs that nearly all the sects share.\n\nTaoist orders usually present the Three Pure Ones at the top of the pantheon of deities, visualizing the hierarchy emanating from the Tao. Laozi (\"Laojun\", \"Lord Lao\"), is considered the incarnation of one of the Three Purities and worshipped as the ancestor of the philosophical doctrine.\n\nDifferent branches of Taoism often have differing pantheons of lesser deities, where these deities reflect different notions of cosmology. Lesser deities also may be promoted or demoted for their activity. Some varieties of popular Chinese religion incorporate the Jade Emperor, derived from the main of the Three Purities, as a representation of the most high God.\n\nPersons from the history of Taoism, and people who are considered to have become immortals (\"xian\"), are venerated as well by both clergy and laypeople.\n\nDespite these hierarchies of deities, traditional conceptions of Tao should not be confused with the Western theism. Being one with the Tao does not necessarily indicate a union with an eternal spirit in, for example, the Hindu sense.\n\nThe \"Tao Te Ching\" or \"Daodejing\" is widely considered the most influential Taoist text. According to legend, it was written by Laozi, and often the book is simply referred to as the \"Laozi.\" However, authorship, precise date of origin, and even unity of the text are still subject of debate, and will probably never be known with certainty. The earliest texts of the \"Tao Te Ching\" that have been excavated (written on bamboo tablets) date back to the late 4th century BCE. Throughout the history of religious Taoism, the \"Tao Te Ching\" has been used as a ritual text.\n\nThe famous opening lines of the \"Tao Te Ching\" are:\n\n道可道非常道 ()\n\"The Tao that can be told is not the eternal Tao\"\n名可名非常名 ()\n\"The name that can be named is not the eternal name.\"\nThere is significant, at times acrimonious, debate regarding which English translation of the Tao Te Ching is preferable, and which particular translation methodology is best. The \"Tao Te Ching\" is not thematically ordered. However, the main themes of the text are repeatedly expressed using variant formulations, often with only a slight difference.\n\nThe leading themes revolve around the nature of Tao and how to attain it. Tao is said to be ineffable, and accomplishing great things through small means. Ancient commentaries on the \"Tao Te Ching\" are important texts in their own right. Perhaps the oldest one, the \"Heshang Gong\" commentary, was most likely written in the 2nd century CE. Other important commentaries include the one from Wang Bi and the Xiang'er.\n\nThe \"Zhuangzi\" (), named after its traditional author Zhuangzi, is a composite of writings from various sources, and is generally considered the most important of all Taoist writings. The commentator Guo Xiang (c. AD 300) helped establish the text as an important source for Taoist thought. The traditional view is that Zhuangzi himself wrote the first seven chapters (the \"inner chapters\") and his students and related thinkers were responsible for the other parts (the \"outer\" and \"miscellaneous\" chapters). The work uses anecdotes, parables and dialogues to express one of its main themes, that is aligning oneself to the laws of the natural world and \"the way\" of the elements.\n\nThe \"I Ching,\" or \"Yijing,\" was originally a divination system that had its origins around 1150 BCE Although it predates the first mentions of Tao as an organised system of philosophy and religious practice, this text later became of philosophical importance to Daoism and Confucianism.\n\nThe \"I Ching\" itself, shorn of its commentaries, consists of 64 combinations of 8 trigrams (called \"hexagrams\"), traditionally chosen by throwing coins or yarrow sticks, to give the diviner some idea of the situation at hand and, through reading of the \"changing lines\", some idea of what is developing.\n\nThe 64 original notations of the hexagrams in the \"IChing\" can also be read as a meditation on how change occurs, so it assists Taoists with managing yin and yang cycles as Laozi advocated in the \"Tao Te Ching\" (the oldest known version of this text was dated to 400 BCE). More recently as recorded in the 18th century, the Taoist master Liu Yiming continued to advocate this usage.\n\nThe Daozang (, \"Treasury of Tao\") is also referred to as the Taoist canon. It was originally compiled during the Jin, Tang, and Song dynasties. The version surviving today was published during the Ming Dynasty. The Ming \"Daozang\" includes almost 1500 texts. Following the example of the Buddhist Tripiṭaka, it is divided into three \"dong\" (, \"caves\", \"grottoes\"). They are arranged from \"highest\" to \"lowest\":\n\n\n\"Daoshi\" generally do not consult published versions of the Daozang, but individually choose, or inherit, texts included in the Daozang. These texts have been passed down for generations from teacher to student.\n\nThe Shangqing school has a tradition of approaching Taoism through scriptural study. It is believed that by reciting certain texts often enough one will be rewarded with immortality.\n\nWhile the Tao Te Ching is most famous, there are many other important texts in traditional Taoism. \"Taishang Ganying Pian\" (\"Treatise of the Exalted One on Response and Retribution\") discusses sin and ethics, and has become a popular morality tract in the last few centuries. It asserts that those in harmony with Tao will live long and fruitful lives. The wicked, and their descendants, will suffer and have shortened lives.\n\nLowe's summary of a Taoist worldview highlights points such as:\n\n\nThe \"taijitu\" (; commonly known as the \"yin and yang symbol\" or simply the \"yin yang\") and the \"bagua\" 八卦 (\"Eight Trigrams\") have importance in Taoist symbolism. In this cosmology, the universe creates itself out of a primary chaos of material energy, organized into the cycles of Yin and Yang and formed into objects and lives. Yin is the receptive and Yang is the active principle, seen in all forms change and difference such as the annual season cycles, the landscape, sexual coupling, the formation of both men and women as characters, and sociopolitical history. While almost all Taoist organizations make use of it, one could also regard it as Confucian, Neo-Confucian or pan-Chinese. One can see this symbol as a decorative element on Taoist organization flags and logos, temple floors, or stitched into clerical robes. According to Song dynasty sources, it originated around the 10th century CE. Previously, a tiger and a dragon had symbolized yin and yang.\n\nTaoist temples may fly square or triangular flags. They typically feature mystical writing or diagrams and are intended to fulfill various functions including providing guidance for the spirits of the dead, bringing good fortune, increasing life span, etc. Other flags and banners may be those of the gods or immortals themselves.\n\nA zigzag with seven stars is sometimes displayed, representing the Big Dipper (or the Bushel, the Chinese equivalent). In the Shang Dynasty of the 2nd millennium BCE, Chinese thought regarded the Big Dipper as a deity, while during the Han Dynasty, it was considered a \"qi\" path of the circumpolar god, \"Taiyi\".\n\nTaoist temples in southern China and Taiwan may often be identified by their roofs, which feature dragons and phoenixes made from multi-colored ceramic tiles. They also stand for the harmony of yin and yang (with the phoenix representing yin). A related symbol is the flaming pearl, which may be seen on such roofs between two dragons, as well as on the hairpin of a Celestial Master. In general though, Chinese Taoist architecture lacks universal features that distinguish it from other structures.\n\nAt ancient times, before Daoism Religion was founded, food may be set out as a sacrifice to the spirits of the deceased or the gods. This may include slaughtered animals, such as pigs and ducks, or fruit. The Daoist Celestial Master Zhang Daoling rejected food and animal sacrifices to the Gods. He tore apart temples which demanded animal sacrifice and drove away its priests. Nowadays Daoism Temples are still not allowed to use animal sacrifices. Another form of sacrifice involves the burning of joss paper, or hell money, on the assumption that images thus consumed by the fire will reappear—not as a mere image, but as the actual item—in the spirit world, making them available for revered ancestors and departed loved ones. The joss paper is mostly used when memorizing ancestors, such as time of Qingming.\n\nAlso on particular holidays, street parades take place. These are lively affairs which invariably involve firecrackers and flower-covered floats broadcasting traditional music. They also variously include lion dances and dragon dances; human-occupied puppets (often of the \"Seventh Lord\" and \"Eighth Lord\"), Kungfu-practicing and palanquins carrying god-images. The various participants are not considered performers, but rather possessed by the gods and spirits in question.\n\nFortune-telling—including astrology, I Ching, and other forms of divination—has long been considered a traditional Taoist pursuit. Mediumship is also widely encountered in some sects. There is an academic and social distinction between martial forms of mediumship (such as \"tongji\") and the spirit-writing that is typically practiced through planchette writing.\n\nA recurrent and important element of Taoism are rituals, exercises and substances aiming at aligning oneself spiritually with cosmic forces, at undertaking ecstatic spiritual journeys, or at improving physical health and thereby extending one's life, ideally to the point of immortality. Enlightened and immortal beings are referred to as xian.\n\nA characteristic method aiming for longevity is Taoist alchemy. Already in very early Taoist scriptures - like the \"Taiping Jing\" and the \"Baopuzi\" - alchemical formulas for achieving immortality were outlined.\n\nA number of martial arts traditions, particularly the ones falling under the category of Neijia (like T'ai Chi Ch'uan, Bagua Zhang and Xing Yi Quan) embody Taoist principles to a significant extent, and some practitioners consider their art a means of practizing Taoism.\n\nThe number of Taoists is difficult to estimate, due to a variety of factors including defining Taoism. According to a survey of religion in China in the year 2010, the number of people practicing some form of Chinese folk religion is near to 950 million (70% of the Chinese). Among these, 173 million (13%) claim an affiliation with Taoist practices. Further in detail, 12 million people claim to be \"Taoists\", a term traditionally used exclusively for initiates, priests and experts of Taoist rituals and methods.\n\nMost Chinese people and many others have been influenced in some way by Taoist traditions. Since the creation of the People's Republic of China, its government has encouraged a revival of Taoist traditions in codified settings. In 1956, the Chinese Taoist Association was formed to administer the activities of all registered Taoist orders, and received official approval in 1957. It was disbanded during the Cultural Revolution under Mao, but was re-established in 1980. The headquarters of the association are at the \"Baiyunguan\", or White Cloud Temple of Beijing, belonging to the Longmen branch of Quanzhen Taoism. Since 1980, many Taoist monasteries and temples have been reopened or rebuilt, both belonging to the Zhengyi or Quanzhen schools, and clergy ordination has been resumed.\n\nTaoist literature and art has influenced the cultures of Korea, Japan, and Vietnam. Organized Taoism seems not to have attracted a large non-Chinese following until modern times. In Taiwan 7.5 million people (33% of the population) identify themselves as Taoists. Data collected in 2010 for religious demographics of Hong Kong and Singapore show that, respectively, 14% and 11% of the people of these cities identify as Taoists.\n\nThroughout Chinese history there have been many examples of art being influenced by Taoist thought. Notable painters influenced by Taoism include Wu Wei, Huang Gongwang, Mi Fu, Muqi Fachang, Shitao, Ni Zan, T'ang Mi, and Wang Tseng-tsu. Taoist arts represents the diverse regions, dialects, and time spans that are commonly associated with Taoism. Ancient Taoist art was commissioned by the aristocracy, however scholars masters and adepts also directly engaged in the art themselves.\nDaoism never had a unified political theory. While Huang-Lao positions justified a strong emperor as the legitimate ruler, the \"primitivists\" (like in the chapters 8-11 of the Zhuangzi) argued in strongly for a radical anarchism. A more moderate position is presented in the Inner Chapters of the Zhuangzi in which the political life is presented with disdain and some kind of pluralism or perspectivism is preferred. The syncretist position in texts like the Huainanzi and some Outer Chapters of the Zhuangzi blended some daoist positions with confucian ones.\n\nMany scholars believe Taoism arose as a countermovement to Confucianism. The philosophical terms \"Dao\" and \"De\" are indeed shared by both Taoism and Confucianism, and Laozi is traditionally held to have been a teacher of Confucius. Zhuangzi explicitly criticized Confucian and Mohist tenets in his work. In general, Taoism rejects the Confucian emphasis on rituals, hierarchical social order, and conventional morality, and favors \"naturalness\", spontaneity, and individualism instead.\n\nThe entry of Buddhism into China was marked by significant interaction and syncretism with Taoism. Originally seen as a kind of \"foreign Taoism\", Buddhism's scriptures were translated into Chinese using the Taoist vocabulary. Representatives of early Chinese Buddhism, like Sengzhao and Tao Sheng, knew and were deeply influenced by the Taoist keystone texts.\n\nTaoism especially shaped the development of Chan (Zen) Buddhism, introducing elements like the concept of \"naturalness\", distrust of scripture and text, and emphasis on embracing \"this life\" and living in the \"every-moment\".\n\nTaoism on the other hand also incorporated Buddhist elements during the Tang dynasty, such as monasteries, vegetarianism, prohibition of alcohol, the doctrine of emptiness, and collecting scripture in tripartite organization.\n\nIdeological and political rivals for centuries, Taoism, Confucianism, and Buddhism deeply influenced one another. For example, Wang Bi, one of the most influential philosophical commentators on Laozi (and the \"Yijing\"), was a Confucian. The three rivals also share some similar values, with all three embracing a humanist philosophy emphasizing moral behavior and human perfection. In time, most Chinese people identified to some extent with all three traditions simultaneously. This became institutionalized when aspects of the three schools were synthesized in the Neo-Confucian school.\n\nSome authors have dealt with comparative studies between Taoism and Christianity. This has been of interest for students of history of religion such as J.J.M. de Groot, among others. The comparison of the teachings of Laozi and Jesus of Nazareth has been done by several authors such as Martin Aronson, and Toropov & Hansen (2002), who believe that they have parallels that should not be ignored. In the opinion of J. Isamu Yamamoto the main difference is that Christianity preaches a personal God while Taoism does not. Yet, a number of authors, including Lin Yutang, have argued that some moral and ethical tenets of these religions are similar. In neighboring Vietnam, Taoist values have been shown to adapt to social norms and formed emerging socio-cultural beliefs together with Confucianism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8905037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8905037", "title": "Temenos Academy", "text": "Temenos Academy\n\nThe Temenos Academy, or Temenos Academy of Integral Studies, is an educational charity in London which aims to offer education in philosophy and the arts in the light of the sacred traditions of East and West.\n\nThe academy's origins began in 1980 when the \"Temenos\" journal was launched by Kathleen Raine, Keith Critchlow, Brian Keeble and Philip Sherrard to publish creative work which acknowledged spirituality as a prime need for humanity. Ten years later the academy was founded to extend the project through lectures and study groups. It was accommodated initially in the Prince of Wales's Institute of Architecture in Regent's Park. Since the closure of the institute, the academy now holds meetings in different venues in London.\n\nThe Prince of Wales is patron of the academy. He said:\nAlso, the work of the Temenos Academy addresses the importance of the teaching of what may be defined as the Perennial Philosophy which underpins every civilisation and every religion. In accordance with Kathleen Raine's message:\nLecturers include Hossein Elahi Ghomshei and Z'ev ben Shimon Halevi (Warren Kenton). The academy staged a talk by the Dalai Lama during his visit to London in 2004. The journal \"Temenos\" was continued as the \"Temenos Academy Review\".\n"}
{"id": "15277413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15277413", "title": "The Internationale Hegel-Gesellschaft", "text": "The Internationale Hegel-Gesellschaft\n\nThe Internationale Hegelgesellschaft e.V. (International Hegel Society) claims to be Germany's oldest surviving Hegel Society. It was founded 1953 in Nürnberg by Wilhelm Raimund Beyer (1902-1990).\n\nMr. Beyer's efforts were supported by the City of Nürnberg in its celebration of the facts that Hegel taught in Nürnberg and that Hegel's wife, Marie Tucher, was the daughter of a well-known Nürnberg family.\n\nThe society currently supports over a thousand members from its Berlin headquarters. The results of their meetings are published in the \"Hegel Jahrbuch\" (Hegel Yearbook) which is available at Akademie Verlag, Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "19263124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19263124", "title": "Vitarka-vicara", "text": "Vitarka-vicara\n\nIn Buddhism, vitarka (Sanskrit, also \"vitarkah\"; Pali: \"vitakka\"; Tibetan phonetic: \"tokpa\"), \"applied thought,\" \"attention,\" and vicara, (Sanskrit( विचार) and Pali; also \"vicāra\"; Tibetan phonetic: \"chöpa\") \"discernment,\" \"sustained thinking,\" are qualities or elements of the first \"dhyana\". While the Buddhist commentarial tradition interprets \"vitarka\" and \"vicara\" as the initial and sustainted application of attention to a meditational object, they may be one expression referring to \"the normal process of discursive thought,\" which is supprssed by concentration in the second \"dhyana\".\n\n\"Vitarka\" (Sanskrit: वितर्क ), \"thoughts,\" \"applied thought,\" \"applied attention.\" it's roots are:\n\"Vitarka\" may refer to mental activities that are manifest both in normal consciousness and in the first stage of \"dhyana\". In general, it means \"thought,\" \"applied thought,\" or \"distracted thoughts.\" According to Bhikkhu Bodhi, \"In the Suttas, the word Vittaka is often used in the loose sense of thought, but in the Abhidhamma it is used in a precise technical sense to mean the mental factor that mounts or directs the mind towards an object.\"\n\n\"Vicara\", also \"Vichāra\" (Sanskrit: विचार) means \"deliberation.\" Its roots are:\n\n\"Vitarka\" investigates things roughly, while \"vicara\" investigates things exactly.\n\n\"Vitarka\" and \"vicara\" are two of the qualities or elements of the first dhyana (Pali: jhana), which are absent in the higher jhanas. \n\nIn Theravada, \"vitarka\" is one of the mental factors (\"cetasika\") that apprehend the quality of an object. It is the \"initial application of attention\" or the mind to its object, while \"vicara\" is the sustained application of the mind on an object.\n\nWhile initially simply referring to thought, which in present at the onset of \"dhyana\", the terms \"vitarka\" and \"vicara\" were re-interpreted by the developing Abhidharma and commentarial tradition. According to Roderick S.Bucknell, \"\"vitakka-vicara\", the factor that particularly characterizes the first jhana, is probably nothing other than the normal process of discursive thought, the familiar but usually unnoticed stream of mental imagery and verbalization.\"\n\nMartin Stuart Fox explains, referring to Rhys Davids and Stede, when \"vitarka-vicara\" are mentioned in tandem, they are one expression, \"to cover \"all\" varieties of thinking, including sustained and focused thought. It is thinking in this inclusive sense that the meditator suppresses through concentration when he attains one-ness of mind and thus moves from first to second \"jhana\".\"\n\n\"Vitarka\" is also regarded in the Theravada-tradition as an anti-dote for \"thina-middha\" (sloth and torpor), one of the five hindrances. According to Stuart-Fox, the Abhidhamma separated \"vitarka\" from \"vicara\", and \"ekagatta\" (onepointednes) was added to the description first \"dhyana\" to give an equal number of five hindrances and five anti-dotes. The commentarial tradition regards the qualities of the first \"dhyana\" to be antidotes to the five hindrances, and \"ekagatta\" may have been added to the first \"dhyana\" to give exactly five anti-dotes for the five hindrances. Stuart-Fox further notes that \"vitarka\", being discursive thought, will do very little as an anti-dote for sloth and torpor, reflecting the inconsistencies which were introduced by the scholastics.\n\nThe \"Vitarka mudrā\", \"mudra of discussion,\" expresses \"vitarka,\" joining the tips of the thumb and the index together, and keeping the other fingers straight. This mudra has a great number of variants in Mahayana Buddhism, and is also known as \"\" and \"Vyākhyāna mudrā\" (\"mudra of explanation\").\n\n\n\nMahayana tradition:\n\nTheravada tradition:\n"}
{"id": "21321298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21321298", "title": "Vladimir Dvorniković", "text": "Vladimir Dvorniković\n\nVladimir Dvorniković (28 July 1888 – 1956) was a Croatian and Yugoslav philosopher, ethno-psychologist, and a strong proponent of a Yugoslav ethnicity. He was a professor at the University of Zagreb during the 1920s. Dvorniković was also an advocate of psychologism and animal philosophy. He is best known for authoring the book \"Characterology of the Yugoslavs.\"\n\nVladimir Dvorniković was born in Severin na Kupi, at the time in the Kingdom of Croatia and Slavonia, Austria-Hungary.\nHis father Ljudevit-Lujo was a pedagogue, and his mother Marjana was also an educator and a part-time publicist. Vladimir was the eldest of eleven children. Because of constant relocating due primarily to his parents' career, he finished elementary school in Drežnik, and high school in Zemun and Sarajevo. In the 3rd year of high school he became interested in literature and was an enthusiastic reader of the works of Herbert Spencer and Ernst Haeckel.\n\nIn 1906 Dvorniković travels abroad to study philosophy in Vienna. Professors who had tremendous influence on young Vladimir were Friedrich Jodl and Wilhelm Jerusalem. He received his doctorate from Vienna in 1911 with his thesis titled \"About the necessity of the psychological establishment of the cognitive theory.\" His plans on habilitation in Vienna were hindered due to the outbreak of the first World War. From 1910 and on he relocates to Sarajevo, Bihać, and Zagreb to commit to teaching.\n\nApart from dissertation, he profiles himself as a psychologist with the book \"Both essential types of philosophizing - Attempt of psychological orientation in current philosophical currents\", published in German in Berlin of 1917. During the first World War he was deported to Bihać for labor because of his pro-Yugoslav orientation. In 1918 Dvorniković arrives in Zagreb where he works in a Musical school.\n\nDuring 1919 he begins lecturing at the University of Zagreb with the theme \"Philosophy and Science.\" In 1925 he becomes a regular professor on the board of directors for the \"theoretic and practical philosophy and for the history of philosophy.\" He is the fourth professor of philosophy in Croatia in half a century; his predecessors being Franjo Marković, Đuro Arnold and Albert Bazala. Rejecting, like Bazala, the old education-system scheme of Johann Friedrich Herbart, Dvorniković indulges himself in the search for proper philosophy, respectively referring to it as \"our autochthonous philosophy.\" Not scrupling to participation in his public life and pronouncement tribunals about current societal and political themes. A strong proponent of \"integrated Yugoslavism\" (the concept of the Yugoslav Democratic Party), he is an opponent to political demagogy and to the regime of his time. As a result, in 1926 - only a year prior to becoming a regular professor, at age 38 becomes retired.\n\nAfter his departure from the university, he becomes intensely active in public affairs. He recites over 400 lectures in public across all parts of united Yugoslavia, but also in Vienna, Prague, and Zurich. He annunciates discussions, various studies, essays, articles, displays, and criticisms. He moves to Belgrade and, after the establishment of the Sixth-of-January dictatorship, fully cooperates with the new regime. In 1933, he became the assistant of the ministry of education, but is soon retired (in 1934). He authors the book \"Battle Idea\" in 1937, and then writes his most famous book in 1939, titled \"Characterology of the Yugoslavs.\"\n\nDuring the second World War he lives withdrawn in Belgrade. After the establishment of Communist Yugoslavia, he is enrolled as a member of the \"Commission for the constructing appellation in architecture.\" He is a member from 1945 - 1950. He authors smaller articles regarding the history of culture, archeology, ethnology, and psychology. He was briefly involved in photography.\n\nDvorniković died in Belgrade, in what was at the time the People's Republic of Serbia, FPR Yugoslavia.\n\nWritten in Serbo-Croatian \"(Karakterologija Jugoslavena)\", the book addresses the need to establish a national character within the entire country. Dvorniković writes that it is important to \"mix\" up all elements of Yugoslavia and to create one people (the Yugoslavs). He claims that Serbs and Croats can only survive as a strong nation by integrating into one people (like the unification of Germans and Germany or that of Italians and Italy).\n\nThe book did not dismiss the differences among people that inhabited Yugoslavia, but stressed that these differences were \"contingent and temporary and that they mask a deeper and more profound racial unity\". He also advocated the idea of a Dinaric race, and his book overall gives a comprehensive description of unitarist Yugoslav mythology.\n\nAlong with other texts, he has published the following works:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3480073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3480073", "title": "William Hatch", "text": "William Hatch\n\nWilliam Henry Paine Hatch (August 2, 1875 – November 11, 1972) was an American theologian and New Testament scholar, born at Camden, N. J. He attended Harvard, graduating in 1898 (Ph.D., 1904). Afterward, he graduated the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the General Theological Seminary in New York City. He was ordained to the Episcopal priesthood in 1902. Hatch was awarded a Doctor of Divinity from Union Theological Seminary in New York and a D.Théol. from the University of Strasbourg. He was Professor of the Literature and Interpretation of the New Testament at the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Hatch published many articles and reviews and was the author of \"The Pauline Idea of Faith\" (1917), and, with C. C. Edmunds, \"The Gospel Manuscripts of the General Theological Seminary\" (1918).\n\n"}
{"id": "5004659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5004659", "title": "Yama (Buddhism)", "text": "Yama (Buddhism)\n\nIn East Asian and Buddhist mythology, Yama (sometimes known as the King of Hell, King Yan or Yanluo) is a dharmapala (wrathful god) said to judge the dead and preside over the Narakas (\"Hells\" or \"Purgatories\") and the cycle of afterlife saṃsāra.\n\nAlthough based on the god Yama of the Hindu Vedas, the Buddhist Yama has developed different myths and different functions from the Hindu deity. He has also spread far more widely and is known in most countries where Buddhism is practiced, including China, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Vietnam, Bhutan, Mongolia, Thailand, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Myanmar and Laos.\n\nAdopted from Hinduism into Buddhism, Yama's exact role is fairly vague in canonical texts, but is clearer in extracanonical texts and popular beliefs, although these are not always consistent with Buddhist philosophy.\n\nIn the Pali canon, the Buddha states that a person who has ill-treated their parents, ascetics, holy persons, or elders is taken upon his death to Yama. Yama then asks the ignoble person if he ever considered his own ill conduct in light of birth, deterioration, sickness, worldly retribution and death (Māra). In response to Yama's questions, such an ignoble person repeatedly answers that he failed to consider the karmic consequences of his reprehensible actions and as a result is sent to a brutal hell \"so long as that evil action has not exhausted its result.\"\n\nIn the Pali commentarial tradition, the scholar Buddhaghosa's commentary to the Majjhima Nikaya describes Yama as a \"vimānapeta\" (विमानपेत), a \"being in a mixed state\", sometimes enjoying celestial comforts and at other times punished for the fruits of his karma. However, Buddhaghosa considered his rule as a king to be just.\n\nModern Theravādin countries portray Yama sending old age, disease, punishments, and other calamities among humans as warnings to behave well. At death, they are summoned before Yama, who examines their character and dispatches them to their appropriate rebirth, whether to earth or to one of the heavens or hells. Sometimes there are thought to be two or four Yamas, each presiding over a distinct Hell.\n\nIn Chinese mythology, King Yan (Chinese:  ,  ,  \"Yánwáng\") is the god of death and the ruler of Diyu, overseeing the \"Ten Kings of Hell\". He is also known as Yanluo ( ,  ,  \"Yánluówáng\"), a transcription of the Sanskrit for King Yama (, \"Yama Rājā\"). In both ancient and modern times, Yan is portrayed as a large man with a scowling red face, bulging eyes, and a long beard. He wears traditional robes and a judge's cap or a crown which bears the character for \"king\" (王). He typically appears on Chinese hell money in the position reserved for political figures on regular currency.\n\nYan is not only the ruler but also the judge of the underworld and passes judgment on all the dead. He always appears in a male form, and his minions include a judge who holds in his hands a brush and a book listing every soul and the allotted death date for every life. Ox-Head and Horse-Face, the fearsome guardians of hell, bring the newly dead, one by one, before Yan for judgement. Men or women with merit will be rewarded good future lives or even revival in their previous life. Men or women who committed misdeeds will be sentenced to torture or miserable future lives. In some versions, Yan divides Diyu into eight, ten, or eighteen courts each ruled by a Yan King, such as King Chujiang, who rules the court reserved for thieves and murderers.\n\nThe spirits of the dead, on being judged by Yan, are supposed to either pass through a term of enjoyment in a region midway between the earth and the heaven of the gods or to undergo their measure of punishment in the nether world. Neither location is permanent and after a time, they return to Earth in new bodies.\n\n\"Yan\" was sometimes considered to be a position in the celestial hierarchy, rather than an individual. There were said to be cases in which an honest mortal was rewarded the post of Yan and served as the judge and ruler of the underworld.\n\nSome said common people like Bao Zheng, Fan Zhongyan, Zhang Binglin became the Yan at night or after death.\n\nThese Chinese beliefs subsequently spread to Korea and Japan. In Japan, he is called Enma (閻魔, prev. \"Yenma\"), King Enma (閻魔王, Enma-ō), and Great King Enma (閻魔大王, Enma Dai-Ō). In Korea, Yan is known as Yeom-ra (염라) and Great King Yeom-ra (염라대왕, Yŏm-ra Daewang). In Vietnam, these Buddhist deities are known as Diêm La or Diêm Vương and are venerated as a council of all ten kings who oversee underworld realm of địa ngục.\n\nA Japanese \"kotowaza\" states . Jizō is typically portrayed with a serene, happy expression whereas Enma is typically portrayed with a thunderous, furious expression. The \"kotowaza\" alludes to changes in people's behaviour for selfish reasons depending on their circumstances.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, Shinje (Tibetan: གཤིན་རྗེ་, \"Gshin.rje\") is both regarded with horror as the prime mover of the cycle of death and rebirth and revered as a guardian of spiritual practice. In the popular mandala of the Bhavachakra, all of the realms of life are depicted between the jaws or in the arms of a monstrous Shinje. Shinje is sometimes shown with a consort, Yami, and sometimes pursued by Yamantaka (conqueror of death).\n\n"}
