{"id": "41277583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41277583", "title": "Alec Muffett", "text": "Alec Muffett\n\nAlec David Edward Muffett (born April 22, 1968) is an Anglo-American internet-security evangelist, architect, and software engineer. He is principally known for his work on Crack, the original Unix password cracker, and for the CrackLib password-integrity testing library; he is also active in the Open Source software community. He worked as a Software Engineer for Facebook.\n\nAlec Muffett was born in Pennsylvania, the third child, and only son, of David Joseph Mead Muffett and Kathleen Jubb; his sisters are Louise and Amanda. Alec was educated at Sacred Heart College, Droitwich and University College London, where he studied Astronomy.\n\nAfter graduation he commenced work as a lab assistant and Unix administrator at the university. In 1988 he took a position as Systems Programmer at the University of Wales in Aberystwyth, and it was there that he wrote the first version of the dictionary attack tool Crack. He was active on the Zardoz list during this period.\n\nMuffett joined Sun Microsystems in 1992, working initially as a systems administrator. He rose “through the ranks” to become the Principal Engineer for Security, a position which he held until he was retrenched, with many others, in 2009 (shortly before Oracle acquired Sun). While at Sun he was one of the researchers who worked on the factorization of the 512 bit RSA Challenge Number; RSA-155 was successfully factorized in August 1999. Muffett also worked on the Sun MD5 hash algorithm, which was introduced in Solaris 9 update 2. The new algorithm drew on Muffett's work in pluggable crypt, and it is now implemented in many different languages, for example Python.\n\nThe algorithm uses the complete text of the famous soliloquy from Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\": \"To be or not to be, that is the question...\" as the constant data. Muffett justified the choice of this text because \"it exposes more programmers to Shakespeare, which has got to be a good thing\". After a sabbatical year, Muffett began to work on The Mine! Project, as lead developer. He subsequently became a director and consultant at Green Lane Security; he also consults for Surevine. He became a director of the Open Rights Group in October 2011.\nMuffett blogs professionally, for Computer World at Unscrewing Security and personally at Dropsafe, and has numerous publications to his credit, besides being an frequent presenter at technical conferences.\n\nMuffett is a co-inventor (with Darren Moffat and Casper Dik) of the patent \"Method and apparatus for implementing a pluggable password obscuring mechanism\", United States Patent 7,249,260, Issued June 12, 2003.\n\nMuffett's father, David, was a former British Colonial Administrator in Africa, big game hunter and professor of African studies at Duquesne University at Pittsburgh.\n\nAlec Muffett lives in Hartley Wintney, Hampshire, England.\n\n\nAlec Muffett: Almost Everything You Ever Wanted To Know About Security\n\nAlec Muffett, Proper Care and Feeding of Firewalls\n\nAlec Muffett, WAN-hacking with AutoHack, Auditing security behind the firewall\n"}
{"id": "1513703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1513703", "title": "Alexander Nikitin", "text": "Alexander Nikitin\n\nAlexander Konstantinovich Nikitin (; born 16 May 1952) is a Russian former submarine officer and nuclear safety inspector turned environmentalist. In 1996 he was accused of espionage for revealing the perils of decaying nuclear submarines, and in 2000 he became the first Russian to be completely acquitted of a charge of treason in the Soviet or post-Soviet era.\n\nNikitin started to co-operate with Norwegian environmental Bellona Foundation in 1994. He was arrested in February 1996 by Russian FSB and charged with treason through espionage for his contributions to a Bellona report on the nuclear safety within the Russian Northern Fleet. On 30 August, Amnesty International declared him a prisoner of conscience and began an international campaign for his release. After having spent ten months in pre-trial detention in Saint Petersburg he was released on the order of Mikhail Katushev, the then deputy Russian Prosecutor General, in December 1996.\n\nThe charges were however, not dropped. Nikitin first stood trial in October 1998, when the Saint Petersburg City Court rejected the evidence against him. But rather than acquitting him, the Court sent the case back to the FSB for additional investigation. The Supreme Court of Russia confirmed this decision in February 1999, and the FSB filed new charges in July 1999.\n\nThe second trial started at the Saint Petersburg City Court in November 1999, and ended on 29 December with a full acquittal. The prosecution appealed to the Supreme Court, but the acquittal was confirmed and reached legal force on 17 April 2000. Nikitin was defended by a group of attorneys in law, including Yury Schmidt, Ivan Pavlov, Victor Drozdov, Henri Reznik and others.\n\nThe prosecution was, however, not willing to call it a day. On 30 May 2000 the Prosecutor General requested the governing body of the Russian Supreme Court, the Presidium, to re-open the case. The basis for the request was that “Nikitin's rights had been violated throughout the proceedings against him, and that these violations had to be repaired” (sic). The Presidium rejected the request on 13 September 2000.\n\nNikitin is still engaged in environmental and human rights issues in Russia. He is the head of Bellona Foundation’s Saint Petersburg branch, and is engaged in environmental and nuclear safety projects, as well as in human rights cases.\n\nIn 1997, Nikitin was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize from the Goldman Environmental Foundation, but as a result of treason charges against him, he was prevented from attending the Prize ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "50060635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50060635", "title": "Andrias Christian Evensen", "text": "Andrias Christian Evensen\n\nAndrias Christian Evensen (December 6, 1874 – October 21, 1917) was a Faroese priest, editor, writer, and politician for the Home Rule Party (). Together with Jákup Dahl, he was one of the first to propagate the use of Faroese, including as a church language in preference to Danish.\n\nEvensen was born in Viðareiði. He received his \"examen artium\" certification in 1894 and the degree of \"cand.theol.\" in 1901. Evensen became the parish priest in Sandur in 1902, and then served as the dean for the Faroe Islands from April 1917 until his death in October that year. He became the editor of the newspaper \"Føringatíðindi\" in 1906. Evensen was active in the Løgting as a parliamentary representative from Sandoy from 1908 to 1917. He eventually broke away from the Home Rule Party () and was an independent representative during his last year in the Løgting.\n\nTogether with the writer Rasmus Rasmussen and the archivist and politician Anton Degn, he established the publisher Hitt føroyska Bókamentafelagið (The Faroese Book Cultivation Association) in 1907. Evensen died in Copenhagen.\n\n"}
{"id": "264377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264377", "title": "Anna Haining Bates", "text": "Anna Haining Bates\n\nAnna Haining Bates (née Swan; August 6, 1846 – August 5, 1888), was a Canadian woman famed for her great stature of . Her parents were of normal height and were Scottish immigrants.\n\nAt birth Anna Swan weighed sixteen pounds (7.2 kg). She was the third of 13 children, all of the others being around average height. From birth she grew very quickly. On her fourth birthday she was tall. On her 6th birthday she was measured again, and she stood tall, an inch or two (2.5–5 cm) shorter than her mother. On her 11th birthday she stood tall and weighed 197 pounds (89 kg). By her 15th birthday Bates was tall. She reached her full height three years later. Her feet measured 14.2 inches (36 cm) long.\nAnna excelled at literature and music and was considered to be very intelligent. She also excelled at her studies of acting, piano and voice. She played Lady Macbeth in one play. At one time, she nearly burned to death when Barnum's museum was destroyed by fire. The stairs were in flames and she was too large to escape through a window. She did get help and escaped safely. She normally weighed 330 pounds and her highest weight was 371 pounds. When visiting a circus in Halifax with which Martin Van Buren Bates — another enormously tall person — was travelling, Anna was spotted by the promoter and hired on the spot. The giant couple became a touring sensation and eventually fell in love and, on June 17, 1871 in St Martin-in-the-Fields in London, they married. \n\nIn 1872, Anna Swan (now Anna Bates) and her husband purchased of land and had furniture made to their specifications. Martin supervised the construction of the house. The main part of the house had ceilings, while the doors were extra wide and were tall. The back part of the house was built an average size for servants and guests. Anna conceived two children with Martin. The first was a girl born on May 19, 1872; she weighed 18 pounds and died at birth. \n\nWhile touring in the summer of 1878, Anna was pregnant for the second time. The baby was born on January 18, 1879, and survived only 11 hours. He was the largest newborn ever recorded, at 23 pounds 9 ounces (10.7 kg) and nearly 30 inches tall (ca. 75 cm) and each of his feet were six inches (152 mm) long. For this she was posthumously awarded a Guinness World Record. The Bates' resumed touring with the W.W. Cole Circus in the summer of 1879, and again in the spring of 1880. Bates spent her remaining years quietly on the farm that she and her husband owned. She had joined the local Baptist Church in 1877 and attended services with her husband. \n\nAnna Bates died suddenly and unexpectedly in her sleep at her home on August 5, 1888, one day before her 42nd birthday.\n\n"}
{"id": "16670608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16670608", "title": "Archie Fire Lame Deer", "text": "Archie Fire Lame Deer\n\nArchie Fire Lame Deer or Tȟáȟča Hušté (1935-2001) was a US Army veteran, a Wicasa Wakan or Medicine man and a lecturer on Lakota people, traditions and religion. He grew up on the Rosebud Indian Reservation served in the US Army during the Korean war, was a Hollywood stuntman and translator. With Richard Erdoes he wrote \"Gift of Power: the life and teachings of a Lakota medicine man.\" He is the son of John Fire Lame Deer Lakota Medicine Man and the subject of the classic book, \"Lame Deer Seeker of Visions with Richard Erdoes.\n\nArchie Fire Lame Deer (April 10, 1935 – January 16, 2001) was a Lakota Sioux spiritual leader, a medicine man and a lecturer and activist of Lakota spirituality.\n\nHe was born in Corn Creek, South Dakota, on the Rosebud Indian Reservation. His father was John Fire Lame Deer, a well known Lakota holy man. Archie grew up with the guidance and teachings of his grandfather, Henry Quick Bear. He attended school at the St. Francis Indian School, but was able to run away at age 14 after many tries. He enlisted in the army twice and was a veteran of the Korean War, a member of the Special Forces and a P.O.W.\n\nAmong other temporary careers Archie was a ranch hand on numerous South Dakota ranches, a rattlesnake exterminator, a Hollywood stuntman, a rodeo rider and a foreman on a Hollywood ranch. Upon giving up alcohol addiction in 1971 he also became a drug and alcohol counsellor. Through the Los Angeles Indian Center he ran a program for Native American offenders imprisoned in both State and Federal institutions in California. Archie was instrumental in bringing Lakota purification ceremonies into prisons across the United States and also helped found and run the Santa Barbara Indian Center.\n\nThe last twenty years of his life Archie Fire Lame Deer has travelled throughout the world teaching Lakota spiritual beliefs and way of life. In his travels he met and talked with numerous spiritual leaders including the Dalai Lama and the Pope. In 1980 he also spoke in Rotterdam at the Fourth Russell Tribunal on Indigenous Peoples' Rights.\n\nFor many years Chief Lame Deer was the intercessor at the annual Crow Dog's Sundance on the Rosebud Indian Reservation, just like his father before him. When Archie died, his son John took his place as a Chief and medicine man and carries on the traditions of the Lame Deer family.\nArchie Fire Lame Deer was subject of the book Gift of Power: The Life and Teachings of a Lakota Medicine Man, which he wrote together with Richard Erdoes in 1992. https://www.publishersweekly.com/978-0-939680-87-0\n\nOn July 12, 1980, Lame Deer was in the process of conducting a vision quest ceremony for two men, one of whom, Ronald Delgado, was a diabetic. Delgado died during the four-day ceremony. Lame Deer was promptly denounced as a \"known fraud\" and a \"twinkie\" (New Age practitioner) by a few Native American activists and by some white New Age groups. Chief Archie Fire Lame Deer was not one of those \"fake\" medicine men who took money or was \"unqualified\". Archie Fire Lame Deer came from a family of known and respected Oglala Lakota Wicasa Wakan, \"Medicine Men\" in South Dakota.\n\nCharges were never filed against Lame Deer.\n\nPrior to the incident, Lame Deer had been interviewed by Peter Matthiesen in 1978 and again in 1979. Mathiesen gratefully acknowledged that Lame Deer had \"been kind enough\" to include him in a sweat lodge purification ceremony at that time, and described ceremonies of respect performed by Lame Deer at Point Conception and other places around Santa Barbara, California. He quoted Lame Deer as being extremely concerned about improperly performed sweat lodges and Sun Dance ceremonies, often conducted by younger Indians with no sense of the proper timing or \"feelings\" of the year, wind, or weather.\n\nhttp://www.simonandschuster.net/books/Lame-Deer-Seeker-Of-Visions/John-(fire)-Lame-deer/9780671215354\n\nhttps://www.lamedeer.org/archie-fire-lame-deer.html\n\nhttps://www.albin-michel.fr/ouvrages/le-cercle-sacre-9782226436559\n\nhttps://www.innertraditions.com/author/chief-archie-fire-lame-deer/\n\n"}
{"id": "36672568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36672568", "title": "Asker Dzhappuyev", "text": "Asker Dzhappuyev\n\nAsker Dzhappuyev also known as Emir Abdullah, was the leader of the Jihadist United Vilayat of Kabarda-Balkaria-Karachai organisation in the Russian Republic of Kabardino-Balkaria.\n\nAn ethnic Balkar, Dzhappuyev became the emir of Vilayat of Kabarda-Balkaria-Karachai on 16 May 2010 following the killing of his predecessor, Anzor Astemirov, by the Russian security services. Under Dzhappuyev's command, there was a substantial increase in the number of attacks carried out by the United Vilayat of Kabarda-Balkaria-Karachai. While he encouraged his fighters to avoid civilian casualties, other young commanders like Ratmir Shameyev were more radical.\n\nAmong the attacks carried out in Kabardino-Balkaria during his tenure was a raid on the Baksan hydroelectric power station and the assassinations of the Kabardino-Balkaria mufti Anas Pshikhachev and the prominent ethnographer Aslan Tsipinov.\n\nOn 29 April 2011, Dzhappuyev was amongst 10 militants, including Emir Abdul Jabbar of the North Eastern Sector and Emir Zakaria of the South Western Sector, killed by security forces in the village of Progress in Stavropol Krai. Caucasus Emirate leader Dokka Umarov appointed Alim Zankishiev as his successor.\n"}
{"id": "7455241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7455241", "title": "Barry Schuler", "text": "Barry Schuler\n\nBarry Martin Schuler (born September 7, 1953 in Jersey City, New Jersey) is an American Internet entrepreneur and former chairman and CEO of America Online Inc. He is best known for leading the AOL team that simplified the online service provider's user interface, making it possible for millions of consumers to gain easy access to the Internet.\n\nBarry Schuler grew up in West New York, New Jersey. As a suburban youth, Schuler was encouraged early on by his parents to explore the arts (photography, painting and sculpture) as well as electronics. He turned his family's basement into a darkroom while helping his father, a warehouse owner and part-time repair man, tinker with television sets and other gadgetry.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, while completing a bachelor's degree in psychology at Rutgers University, Schuler became captivated by filmmaking. In 1976, he left the university to produce and direct commercial and industrial films. An avid computer hobbyist and reader of \"Popular Electronics\", Schuler befriended a group of technical enthusiasts who were developing software applications for microcomputers. After assembling a do-it-yourself IMSAI computer and experiencing first hand the potential of at-home computing, Schuler saw the technology's ability to positively disrupt and enhance the way people lived and worked. In 1978, he established CMP Communications, an advertising and marketing company devoted to helping high tech entrepreneurs spread the word about the impending revolution in microcomputing.\n\nSchuler quit CMP in 1988 and took a position as president and CEO of Cricket Software, overseeing the development and marketing of color desktop applications for Apple Computer’s Macintosh, including a Postscript driven drawing program. Cricket also developed the first color, graphical desktop presentation software, “Cricket Presents.” Cricket was ultimately sold to Computer Associates International in 1991.\n\nSchuler was President of San Francisco-based Jasmine Technologies from 1989 to 1990. Jasmine was a leading Macintosh peripherals developer that buckled under the weight of bitter lawsuits and mounting customer dissatisfaction. Jasmine declared bankruptcy in March 1990 and Schuler resigned shortly thereafter.\n\nLooking to take advantage of the opportunities that a new ‘Interactive” medium would bring, Schuler teamed up with (present day) wife Tracy and David Goldman shortly after and established Medior Inc., a multimedia development company, Medior Inc. In 1994, the company entered into a joint venture with, Apple Computer Inc., and Redgate Communications and launched 2Market, considered to be the first rich media online shopping service. That same year, AOL (America Online) also enlisted Medior's help designing its product to give consumers with little or no computing expertise easy access to its online information services. While at Medior, Schuler and company co-developed a music creation game with Nick Tenbrock and Gary Levenberg of San Francisco-based Interactive Audio. The software, called Rock, Rap and Roll, allowed Macintosh users to quickly build soundtracks in a variety of musical styles. Medior also collaborated with Time Warner, one of its clients, on the building of the world's first digital, switched, interactive broadband communications network delivering a range of services. The service was launched in December 1994 in Orlando, Fla.\n\nIn 1995, Medior was acquired by AOL. Schuler, brought over from Medior by AOL founder and CEO Steve Case, was charged with helping him and then president Ted Leonsis to transform the online service provider into a broad based, consumer-driven medium. Schuler worked his way up the ranks at AOL becoming president of its Interactive Services group in 1998. During this time, he led the design team that integrated an Internet browser directly in AOL's proprietary user interface (version 5.0) making it possible for millions of computer users to access the Internet through a Web-based portal. He also advocated the opening up of AOL's proprietary message service known as IM, a key development that allowed its subscriber base to “chat” electronically over the Internet with non-AOL computer users free of charge. By January 2001, the same month that AOL announced its merger with Time-Warner, the company's 26 million subscribers were sending an estimated 660 million instant messages daily.\n\nIt was on the heels of the Time Warner merger that Schuler was appointed chairman and CEO of the AOL unit. He was charged with finding ways to turn AOL into an interactive outlet for Time-Warner's various media divisions, which included film, music, television and publishing. The goal was to transform AOL into a high-speed, Internet-based,” one-stop shop for movies, music, interactive video games, phone service, and more.” \n\nIn a July 2, 2001 article, \"BusinessWeek\" reporter Amy Borrus wrote that Schuler, “deserves just as much credit for AOL's explosive success” as then AOL Time Warner Inc. Chairman Steve Case or co-Chief Operating Officer Robert Pittman. The reporter pointed to the three years Schuler spent running AOL's Interactive Services group, “putting his stamp on much of the design that makes it so simple to use and features that make it so popular with families.” Schuler's objective of converging a souped-up version of AOL's online distribution platform with Time Warner's various media outlets hit several roadblocks one being reluctance on the part of cable companies to open up their network to Internet service providers such as AOL. Likewise, internal dissent over the best ways to merge AOL's distribution channels with Time Warner's more traditional media content plagued the online unit. Against this backdrop, AOL was struggling with declining advertising sales due to an economic downturn as well as a leveling out of its still dial-up driven subscriber growth. The unit took a further hit when its parent was forced to restate its earnings forecast in January 2002, in part due to the slowdown in AOL's business. Schuler stepped down as head of the unit in April 2002, taking over a newly created digital development unit charged with overseeing the formation of interactive digital products and services for all of AOL Time Warner. He officially resigned from AOL-Time Warner in 2003.\n\nShortly after his departure from AOL, Schuler found himself invited to invest in a start up Ablation Industries, Inc. Ablation Industries, Inc was commercializing (Ultrashort pulse laser) USP laser technology funded by the U.S. government's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, also known as DARPA. When Mr Schuler invested in the company, the name of the company was changed to Raydiance, where he raised a significant amount of venture capital funding to help commercialize new technologies of national interest, among them ultrashort pulse lasers. A form of optoelectronics, the lasers emits short pulses of highly concentrated energy that can be used to break down atoms. In 2004, Schuler joined Raydiance Inc. to develop commercial applications for ultra-short pulse lasers. In July 2007, Wired Magazine reported that Raydiance had signed a deal with the U.S. Federal Drug Administration (FDA) to explore laser therapies, ranging from common laser eye treatments to the cell-by-cell tumor ablation.\n\nIn addition to serving as CEO of Raydiance, Schuler is managing director of the Draper Fisher Jurvetson Growth Fund and serves on the boards of UBMatrix, Hands On Mobile, UU See, Synthetic Genomics, and Visto. Schuler is an investor in Adirondack Pictures. He also co-produced and helped finance the film \"Look\", a drama shot entirely from the point of view of surveillance cameras. Written and directed by Adam Rifkin with Brad Wyman as his fellow producer. The film was digitally shot in high-definition with all the special effects, post production and music done on Apple's Macintosh computers in a “virtual studio” setting. \"Look\", released in December 2007, is distributed by Liberated Artists, another Schuler venture. It won the Grand Jury Prize at the 2007 CineVegas Film Festival. It also won Special Jury Prize at The Lone Star International Film Festival and was an official selection in both AFI Fest and The Chicago International Film Festival.\n\nSchuler lives in Napa, California. A vocal proponent of public education reform, He co-founded the Blue Oak School, an independent, not-for-profit entity for students, kindergarten through eighth grade. Schuler is a national advisory member for the New Technology Foundation, a non-profit organization established in 1999 with the objective of achieving national education reform. Using the New Technology High School in Napa as a prototype for encouraging innovative academic objectives, NTF provides interested schools with training, tools and access to expertise developed through the NTHS school site. Through his affiliation with the foundation, Schuler has helped drive and co-funded the implementation of Internet-based technology to establish a project-based learning methodology consistent with the implementation of the 21st Century Learning Initiative.\n\nHe and wife Tracy co-own Meteor Vineyard, located in the Coombsville region of the Napa Valley, with winemakers Bill and Dawnine Dyer.\n\nSchuler is a member of the Rutgers Hall of Distinguished Alumni.\n\nMeteor Vineyard is a property located in the Coombsville agricultural area of the Napa Valley AVA. It was established in 1998 by former America Online Inc. Chairman and Chief Executive Barry M. Schuler and his wife, Tracy Strong Schuler. Meteor Vineyard is located at the southeast end of the Napa Valley, near the San Francisco Bay.\n\nThrough 2004, Meteor Vineyard's grapes were sold in bulk to a handful of Napa Valley properties including Dyer, Arietta, Etude and Vineyard 29. In 2005, the Schulers entered into a partnership with winemakers Dawnine Dyer and Bill Dyer to produce a single-vineyard Cabernet Sauvignon bottled under the Meteor Vineyard. The team bottled their first vintage later that year, and the wine was released beginning 2008.\n\nSoil conditions in the Coombsville area are a mix of well-draining river rock and mineral-rich volcanic ash, both of which are considered suitable for Bordeaux varietals, including Cabernet Sauvignon.\n\n"}
{"id": "37615717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37615717", "title": "Bodonchar Munkhag", "text": "Bodonchar Munkhag\n\nBodonchar Munkhag (c. 850 – 900 AD) was a renowned Mongol warlord and a direct ancestor of Genghis Khan as well as of the Barlas Mongols, the tribe of the Central Asian warlord Timur. \nAccording to the Secret History of the Mongols, he was the 12th generation nominal (non-biological) descendant of Borte Chino. Genghis Khan was the 9th generation biological descendant of Bodonchar Munkhag (sometimes written Butanchar the Simple). Bodonchar Munkhag is the founder of the House of Borjigin. Chagatai tradition dates 'Buzanjar Munqaq' to the rebellion of Abu Muslim or 747 CE. The name Borjigin does not come from Bodonchar but from Bodonchar's nominal great-grandfather Borjigidai the Wise (\"Borjigidai Mergen\"). The date 747 CE corresponds better with Borjigidai Mergen. A confusion with Bayanchur Khan could also account for this date discrepancy. Bodonchar Munkhag means \"little misbegotten simpleton\". Bodonchar or more accurately Butunchar (Mongolian back vowel ʊ) is a diminutive form of \"butuchi\" (illegitimate child, misbegotten, bastard) using the diminutive suffix \"-nchar\" while Munkhag means fool or simpleton. The meaning of the name contrasts with his elevated stature among the Mongol tribes.\n\nThe Mongol tribes of Genghis Khan's time had a very good knowledge of their genealogy, second only to the Arabs according to Rashid Al-Din Hamadani. In the Secret History of the Mongols (Paragraph 121) Old-man Khorchi Usun of the Baarin tribe leaves Jamukha and joins Genghis Khan. He tells Genghis Khan: \"We (the Baarin) were born from the captured wife of Butunchar Bogd (\"Butunchar the Divine Ancestor\"). Therefore we are one womb, one blood with Jamukha. We would never leave the side of Jamukha. But Zaarin (a message bearing spirit) came and showed me a vision.\" He goes on to say that the vision predicted the future rise of Genghis Khan. Butunchar Munkhag was a commonly known figure even among distant tribes such as the Baarin who were descended from the first wife of Butunchar, a captured pregnant woman who described herself as \"Jarchuud Adankhan Uriankhajin\" (\"-jin\" is a feminine suffix) meaning \"female of the Jarchuud Adankhan clan of the Uriankhai tribe\". Although the Secret History of the Mongols includes some mythical elements such as visions and so forth, the individuals and tribes are seen as historical.\n\nAt the time Butunchar Munkhag was born (around 900CE) the Mongol tribes were located around Mount Burkhan Khaldun at the source of the Onon River. The Mongols were the Menggu Shiwei (蒙兀室韋) of the larger Shiwei (室韋) confederation, a Mongolic-speaking group closely related to the Khitan people. The paternal (non-biological) great-grandmother of Butunchar was called Mongoljin Gua meaning \"beautiful Mongoless\" or \"fair woman of the Mongol tribe\".\n\nThe Mongol tribe had lived around Mount Burkhan Khaldun since at least the time of Borte Chino, 12 generations before Bodonchar Munkhag or around 600CE. They shared the area with the ancient Uriankhai tribe, a prominent Shiwei tribe named Wuluohu (烏羅護) in the Chinese histories. There they lived a pastoral life supplemented by hunting the abundant game of the surrounding forested mountains. To the north was located the Bargut tribe (around Lake Baikal) and the Khori Tumed tribe (also around Lake Baikal). To the east was located the Tatar tribes (Airigud Tatar, Buirigud Tatar etc.) who also belonged to the Shiwei group. Slightly to the west of the Mongols were the ancient Bayid tribe. These are the pre-Butunchar early tribes mentioned in the Secret History that had marriage relations with the early Mongols.\n\nMany of the other tribes in the Secret History were later descendants of Butunchar, such as the Jadaran, Baarin, Jegureid, Noyokhon, Barlas, Budagad, Adarkin, Urugud, Mangud, Besud, Oronar, Khonkhotan, Arulad, Sunid, Khabturkhas, Geniges, Taichud and Jurkin. All these core Borjigin tribes were clustered around Mount Burkhan Khaldun and were still known as Mongols. In the Secret History (Paragraph 52) it says after listing all the tribes born from Butunchar Munkhag: \"Khabul Khan was in charge of all Mongols (Khamag Mongol). After Khabul Khan, although Khabul Khan had seven sons, Ambaghai Khan the son of Sengum Bilge took charge of all the Mongols.\"\n\nThe Secret History of Mongols gives the following account of the immediate ancestry of Butunchar Munkhag:\nThe Secret History continues with the following account of Bodonchar's life:\nThe account goes on to say that the captured pregnant woman gave birth to her son who became the ancestor of the Jadaran tribe. She also bore a child from Butunchar who was called Baaridai who became ancestor of the Baarin tribe. Butunchar got another wife who came with a proper dowry. The dowry included a female servant who became Butunchar's third wife. Genghis Khan was descended from Khabu Baatar the son of Butunchar's second wife. Jeguredei was the son of the third wife and was later excluded from the tribal sacrifices.\n\nHouse of Borjigin\n"}
{"id": "58618294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58618294", "title": "Carol Howe", "text": "Carol Howe\n\nCarol Elizabeth Howe was a former informant for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). Howe became a key figure in Oklahoma City bombing conspiracy theories following her claim that she informed authorities of a right-wing extremist plan to blow up a federal building in Oklahoma a few months before the Oklahoma City bombing.\n\nHowe was adopted at birth by a wealthy family in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Upon graduating from Tulsa Metro Christian Academy as an honor student, she lived in several places in the early 1990s, either taking college classes or working a variety of \"non-career\" type jobs.\n\nAccording to White Aryan Resistance member Dennis Mahon, Howe wrote to him in 1993 with an alleged interest in joining his group. However, Howe herself claims she became involved with white supremacists in 1994 after allegedly being injured by a group of African-American men. According to Howe's lawyer, Howe then called Dial-A-Racist, a local hotline operated by Mahon.\n\nDuring her time as a white-separatist, she obtained a swastika tattoo on her shoulder and an Iron Cross on her leg.\n\nIn 1994, Mahon began taking 24-year-old Carol Howe to the white-separatist enclave in Elohim City, Oklahoma. While living on the compound for some months, she appeared on German television with Mahon to advocate violence as a means to reach the goal of a racially pure, white society.\n\nIn August 1994, Carol Howe filed a restraining order against Dennis Mahon. This attracted her the attention of the ATF, who were already investigating Mahon's radical paramilitary group, W.A.R., for suspected violation of federal firearms and conspiracy laws. \n\nAccording to Rev. Robert Millar, the founder and spiritual leader of Elohim City, Howe stayed at Elohim City for about six weeks before the Oklahoma City bombing.\n\nFrom from August 1994 through March 1995, Howe served as an ATF informant going by the code number CI-183. She was paid $120 a week to monitor the Elohim City compound and wrote monthly reports to her ATF handler, Agent Angela Finley-Graham. Agency officials claim that Howe was deactivated because of mental instability. Agent Finely-Graham states that Carol Howe was reinstated in the aftermath of the Oklahoma City bombing but did no informant work after June 1995.\nCarol Howe was present at the Terry Nichols trial, where she testified that she saw Timothy McVeigh in Elohim City in July 1994 with Andreas Carl Strassmeir and Peter Ward. She also identified John Does #1 and #2 as brothers Pete and Tony Ward, both residents of the compound.\n\nJudge Richard P. Match refused to allow Howe's testimony in Timothy McVeigh's trial in the Oklahoma City bombing case.\n\nSometime after the bombing, Carol Howe (using the name \"Freya\"), along with her then-fiancee, James Dodson Viefhaus Jr., formed a white supremacy organization in Tulsa, known as the National Socialist Alliance of Oklahoma, of which they were the only members. \n\nHowe claims that she had set up a white supremacist hot line in 1996 to enhance her cover after federal agents disclosed her identity. During her trial, she explained to the jury that her life as a white separatist was only done as a pose to gather information as an undercover Government informer.\n\nThe indictment against Howe and Viefhaus alleges that they possessed \"Ragnar's Big Book of Homemade Weapons: Building and Keeping Your Arsenal Secure\" and a Department of the Army Technical Manual, \"Improvised Munitions Handbook\".\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "34280196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34280196", "title": "Cavall", "text": "Cavall\n\nCavall (Middle RBH & WBR; modernized: Cafall; pronunciation: ; \"\", var. \"Caball\" ()) is the name of King Arthur's dog, used in the hunt for the great boar, Twrch Trwyth ().\n\nCavall was Arthur's \"favourite dog\", and during a stag hunt, he was customarily the last dog to be let loose to chase after the game (\"Gereint Son of Erbin\").\n\nLegend in antiquity has it that Cabal left his permanent footprint in the rock while pursuing the boar Troynt. The lore is preserved in the \"\" (\"De Mirabilibus Britanniae\" or \"Mirabilia\" in shorthand) appended to \"Historia Brittonum\" (9th century). The wondrous nature of this cairn of stones was that even if someone removed that footprinted stone to another spot, it would be back at its original heap the next day.\n\nThe Latin account has the mark of age, since it refers to Arthur merely as warrior and not king. The full quote in translation is given in the Twrch Trwyth (or wikisource), but Lady Guest's notes might best be consulted, since it provides both the Latin text and translation, as well as commentary on the Carn Cavall as well ().\n\nUnlike the simple primitive lore, the late Welsh romance \"Culhwch and Olwen\" weaves a much more intricate tale, naming many dogs besides Cavall in the hunting party, and the quarry is no longer just the boar Twrch Trwyth itself, its seven offspring (with names), and yet another boar named Yskithyrwyn besides.\n\nYskithyrwyn Penbaedd (or Ysgithyrwyn Chief Boar) was yet another boar to be hunted by Arthur's band; its tusk, which needed to be extracted while still alive, being another of the \"impossible tasks\" (\"anoeth\"; pl. \"anoethiau\") prescribed by Ysbaddaden Chief-Giant. This tusk was the tool necessary for shaving the giant to groom him up, him being the father of the bride Olwen.\n\nIn \"Culhwch and Olwen\", Arthur's dog Cavall is specifically credited with the slaying of Yskithyrwin (or at least with cornering the beast to its doom). Caw of Prydain who rides Arthur's mare Llamrei cleaves Yskithyrwyn's head with a hatchet.\n\nAfterwards, \"Bedwyr leading Cavall, Arthur's own dog\", joins the other hunters and dogs to pursue the great boar Twrch Trwyth and its piglings. But the specific role played by Cavall is not told.\n\nThe other hounds, which either belonged to Arthur's retinue or were recruited elsewhere, include:\n\nIt should be pointed out, in reference to the above list of dogs, that Glas, Glesig, and Gleisad are referred to as dogs, and Call, Cuall, and Cafall as horses, and so on down the line, in the list of belongings of sons of Cleddyf, or, at least they are nowadays in modern translations (such as Gwyn & Thomas Jones', 1949 and Jeffrey Gantz's, 1976). However, in the first English translation by Lady Guest, Glas, etc. were construed as sword names and Call, Cuall, Cavall as dogs, respectively.\n\nIfor Williams has made a study of occurrences of Cafall in old Welsh poetry.\n\nMany scholars seem to hit upon the similarity of the dog's name to the Latin word for \"horse\". In an article from 1936, R. J. Thomas said \"that the name Cabal is from Latin \"caballus\" 'horse', which he considers a quite natural metaphor since the dog was strong and swift, and he compares the horse of Conall Cernach which had a dog's head\".\n\nBromwich further remarks, \"Since \"carn\" means both 'hoof' and 'cairn' it seems more probable that \"Cabal/Cafall\" originally designated Arthur horse.. rather than his hound.\" \n\n\n(Geraint ab Erbin (W).. p. 4 (E)..p. 67; Kilhwch ac Olwen (W).. p. 195 (E)..p. 249)\n"}
{"id": "5613661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5613661", "title": "Charles Askins", "text": "Charles Askins\n\nCharles Askins, Jr. (October 28, 1907 – March 2, 1999), also known as Col. Charles \"Boots\" Askins, was an American lawman, US Army officer, and writer. He served in law enforcement (US Forest Service and Border Patrol) in the American Southwest prior to the Second World War. Askins was the son of Major Charles \"Bobo\" Askins, a sports writer and Army officer who served in the Spanish–American War and World War I.\n\nAskins was born in Nebraska, raised in Oklahoma and his first job was fighting forest fires in Montana. In 1927, the US Forest Service transferred him to New Mexico to be a Park Ranger at the Kit Carson National Forest.\n\nAskins was recruited by the U.S. Border Patrol in 1930. In his memoir \"Unrepentant Sinner\", Askins recounted that he had been involved in at least one gunfight every week.\n\nDuring his service in the Border Patrol, Askins won many pistol championships, and was made the leader of the Border Patrol's handgun skills program.\n\nAskins served in the US Army during World War II as a battlefield recovery officer, making landings in North Africa, Italy, and on D-day. After World War II, he spent several years in Spain as an attache to the American embassy there, helping Franco rebuild Spain's munition plants. After his assignment in Spain, he was reassigned to Vietnam, where he trained South Vietnamese soldiers in shooting and airborne operations. Throughout his military career, he indulged in big game hunting at every opportunity, and continued to do so after his retirement. He held several big game hunting records in his lifetime, as well as two national pistol championships, an American Handgunner of the Year award, and innumerable smaller titles in competitive shooting. Askins retired to San Antonio, Texas after his final years in the military at Fort Sam Houston.\n\nAskins, like his father, was a prolific writer, writing books and over 1,000 magazine articles on subjects related to hunting and shooting. His writing career spanned 70 years, from 1929 until his death in 1999.\n\nAskins was controversial for the relish with which he described the numerous fatal shootings in his law enforcement and military careers, stating he had killed 27 men. Because he was involved in numerous shootouts along the US/Mexico border, and due to his stated practice of not keeping track of African-Americans and Hispanics, the actual number of killings he committed was potentially much higher. Askins once remarked that he thought he was a psychopathic killer, and that he hunted animals so avidly because he was not allowed to hunt men anymore. Askins was a contemporary of Bill Jordan, Elmer Keith, Skeeter Skelton, and Jack O'Connor. These people, except for Skelton, as well as Askins, Audie Murphy, and Ed McGivern, were used as inspiration for characters in the Stephen Hunter novel \"Pale Horse Coming\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19779906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19779906", "title": "Charles Boudroit", "text": "Charles Boudroit\n\nCharles Boudroit (1822 – June 30, 1883) was a mariner and political figure in Nova Scotia, Canada. He represented Richmond County in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly from 1874 to 1878 as an independent member.\n\nHe was born in Arichat, Nova Scotia, of Acadian descent, and educated there. In 1845, he married Charlotte Forest. He was first elected to the provincial assembly in an 1874 by-election held after Edmund Power Flynn was elected to the House of Commons. In 1878, Boudroit was named to the province's Legislative Council. He died in Liscomb, Guysborough County, Nova Scotia.\n\n"}
{"id": "145804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145804", "title": "Civilian", "text": "Civilian\n\nA civilian is \"a person who is not a member of the military or of a police or firefighting force\". The term \"civilian\" is slightly different from a non-combatant under the law of war, as some non-combatants are not civilians (for example, military chaplains attached to the belligerent armed forces or neutral military personnel). Under international law, civilians in the territories of a party to an armed conflict are entitled to certain privileges under the customary laws of war and international treaties such as the Fourth Geneva Convention. The privileges that they enjoy under international law depends on whether the conflict is an internal one (a civil war) or an international one.\n\nThe word \"civilian\" goes back to the late 14th century and is from Old French \"civilien\", \"of the civil law\". Civilian is believed to have been used to refer to non-combatants as early as 1829. The term \"non-combatant\" now refers to people in general who are not taking part of hostilities, rather than just civilians.\n\nThe International Committee of the Red Cross 1958 Commentary on 1949 Geneva Convention IV Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War states: \"Every person in enemy hands must have some status under international law: he is either a prisoner of war and, as such, covered by the Third Convention, a civilian covered by the Fourth Convention, or again, a member of the medical personnel of the armed forces who is covered by the First Convention. There is no intermediate status; nobody in enemy hands can be outside the law. We feel that this is a satisfactory solution – not only satisfying to the mind, but also, and above all, satisfactory from the humanitarian point of view.\" The ICRC has expressed the opinion that \"If civilians directly engage in hostilities, they are considered 'unlawful' or 'unprivileged' combatants or belligerents (the treaties of humanitarian law do not expressly contain these terms). They may be prosecuted under the domestic law of the detaining state for such action.\"\n\nAccording to Article 50 of the 1977 Protocol I Additional to the Geneva Conventions,\n\"1. A civilian is any person who does not belong to one of the categories of persons referred to in Article 4A(1), (2), (3) and (6) of the Third Convention and in Article 43 of this Protocol. In case of doubt whether a person is a civilian, that person shall be considered to be a civilian.\n2. The civilian population comprises all persons who are civilians.\n3. The presence within the civilian population of individuals who do not come within the definition of civilians does not deprive the population of its civilian character.\"\nThe definition is negative and defines civilians as persons who do not belong to definite categories. The categories of persons mentioned in Article 4A(1), (2), (3) and (6) of the Third Convention and in Article 43 of the Protocol I are combatants. Therefore, the Commentary to the Protocol pointed that, any one who is not a member of the armed forces is a civilian. Civilians cannot take part in armed conflict. Civilians are given protection under the Geneva Conventions and Protocols thereto.\nArticle 51 describes the protection that must be given to the civilian population and individual civilians. Chapter III of Protocol I regulates the targeting of civilian objects. Article 8(2)(b)(i) of the 1998 Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court also includes this in its list of war crimes: \"Intentionally directing attacks against the civilian population as such or against individual civilians not taking part in hostilities\". Not all states have ratified 1977 Protocol I or the 1998 Rome Statute, but it is an accepted principle of international humanitarian law that the direct targeting of civilians is a breach of the customary laws of war and is binding on all belligerents.\n\nThe actual position of the civilian in modern war remains problematic. It is complicated by a number of phenomena, including:\n\nStarting in the 1980s, it was often claimed that 90 percent of the victims of modern wars were civilians. The claim was repeated on on 14 December 2010. These claims, though widely believed, are not supported by detailed examination of the evidence, particularly that relating to wars (such as those in former Yugoslavia and in Afghanistan) that are central to the claims.\nIn the opening years of the twenty-first century, despite the many problems associated with it, the legal category of the civilian has been the subject of considerable attention in public discourse, in the media and at the United Nations, and in justification of certain uses of armed force to protect endangered populations. It has \"lost none of its political, legal and moral salience.\"\n\nAlthough it is often assumed that civilians are essentially passive onlookers of war, sometimes they have active roles in conflicts. These may be quasi-military, as when in November 1975 the Moroccan government organized the \"green march\" of civilians to cross the border into the former Spanish colony of Western Sahara to claim the territory for Morocco - all at the same time as Moroccan forces entered the territory clandestinely. In addition, and without necessarily calling into question their status as non-combatants, civilians sometimes take part in campaigns of nonviolent civil resistance as a means of opposing dictatorial rule or foreign occupation: sometimes such campaigns happen at the same time as armed conflicts or guerrilla insurrections, but they are usually distinct from them as regards both their organization and participation.\n\nOfficials directly involved in the maiming of civilians are conducting offensive military operations and do not qualify as civilians.\n\nThe International Humanitarian Law codifies treaties and conventions, signed and enforced by participating states, which serve to protect civilians during intra and interstate conflict. Even for non-treaty participants, it is customary for international law to still apply. Additionally, the IHL adheres to the principles of distinction, proportionality, and necessity; which apply to the protection of civilians in armed conflict. Although, despite the UN deploying military and civilians to protect civilians it lacks formal policies or military manuals addressing exactly these efforts. The UN Security Council Report No 4: Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict provides further evidence of the need for protection of civilians. Recognizing that large-scale civilian insecurity threatens international peace and stability, the UN aims to establish the means of protecting civilians and thereby work to ensure regional stability. Through the UN Security Council Report No 4, first published in 2008, the UN offers ways to support civilian protections in both intra and interstate conflict with a goal of encouraging regional states to police their own conflicts (such as the African Union policing African conflicts). Similarly, the UN Secretary General Kofi Annan reminded UN Member states that they have common interests in protecting African civilians through a shared “commitments to human security, and its rationale of indivisibility of peace and security.”\n\nThrough a series of resolutions (1265, 1296, 1502, 1674, & 1738) and presidential statements the UN Security Council “addresses: \nThe Security Council is now involved in the protection of civilians in five main areas of action.\nIn response to Presidential statements and previous subcommittee work, the UN Security Council held a meeting in January 2009, specifically to address the protection of civilians within the context of the IHL. While no specific outcome followed this meeting, it did lead to the production of a 10-year assessment of Council actions since the passing of resolution 1265 in 1999.\n\nIn addition to the UN treaties, regional treaties have also been established, such as the African Union Constitutive Act Article 4(h) which also outlines the protection of civilians and “affords the Union a right to forcibly intervene in one of its member states in ‘grave circumstances’, namely war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity.” This is proposed to indicate the African Union will no longer stand by to watch atrocities happen within the Union. As described by Said Djinnit (AU’s Commissioner for Peace and Security) in 2004, “Africans cannot [...] watch the tragedies developing in the continent and say it is the UN’s responsibility or somebody else’s responsibility. We have moved from the concept of non-interference to non-indifference. We cannot, as Africans, remain indifferent to the tragedy of our people” (IRIN News 2004). Although Article 4(h), while drafted, has not been activated, which begs the question of the AU's willingness to intervene in situations of “grave circumstance.”\n\nRegardless of the lead organization (UN, AU, other) “there is clearly a risk involved for international organizations that in assuming a complicated security role such as civilian protection, they may raise expectations among local populations that cannot be met, usually not even by large-scale peace operations with a comprehensive political component, supported by high force levels, overall professionalism, and the political stamina to stay present long-term. The disappointing outcomes, in Africa and elsewhere, have led some to criticize the way in which the decentralization policies have been implemented (MacFarlane and Weiss 1992; Berman 1998; Boulden 2003).”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18806353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18806353", "title": "David Pendleton Oakerhater", "text": "David Pendleton Oakerhater\n\nDavid Pendleton Oakerhater (b. ca. 1847, d. August 31, 1931), also known as O-kuh-ha-tuh and Making Medicine, was a Cheyenne Indian warrior and spiritual leader, who became an artist and Episcopal deacon. Imprisoned in 1875 after the Indian Wars at Fort Marion (now Castillo de San Marcos), Florida, Oakerhater became one of the founding figures of modern Native American art. Later he was ordained as a deacon in the Episcopal Church in the United States of America and worked as a missionary in Oklahoma. In 1985, Oakerhater was the first Native American Anglican to be included in the book of Lesser Feasts and Fasts of the Episcopal Church.\n\nBorn in the 1840s in the Indian Territory (later the U.S. state of Oklahoma) to Sleeping Wolf (father), and \"Wah Nach\" (mother), Oakerhater was the second of three boys. His childhood name was \"Noksowist\" (\"Bear Going Straight\"), and he was raised as a traditional Cheyenne. His older brother was Little Medicine, and his younger brother was Wolf Tongue.\n\nOakerhater is believed by some to have been the youngest man to complete the sun dance ritual (his Cheyenne name, \"Okuh hatuh\", means \"sun dancer\"). He participated in his first war party (military raid) at age 14 against the Otoe and Missouri tribes, and became a member of his tribe's \"Bowstring Society\" (one of five military societies). He later participated in actions against United States federal and state militia forces. His first engagement with white settlers was at the Second Battle of Adobe Walls, in which 300 Native American warriors from various tribes, angered by settlers' poaching of buffalo, cattle grazing, and theft of horses, attacked a small trading village used by poachers. The battle, led by Comanche leader \"Isa-tai\" and Chief Quanah Parker, triggered United States government response in the form of the Red River War of 1874-75. Oakerhater may also have participated in the Battle of Washita River and the Sand Creek massacre.\n\nOakerhater married \"Nomee\" (translated as \"Thunder Woman\") in 1872. She died in 1880. They had four children, all of whom died young. Oakerhater also married, had at least one child, and divorced, a second woman, \"Nanessan\" (\"Taking Off Dress\").\n\nIn the Red River War of 1874 and 1875, the United States government attempted to pacify Native American warriors on the Southern Plains, fighting a series of skirmishes until the militants were exhausted by lack of food and supplies. The warriors, including Oakerhater, surrendered in 1875 at Fort Sill near what is now Lawton, Oklahoma. A group of 74 were selected from there and another location, all without trial, for imprisonment in Florida. Oakerhater was in a group chosen for being the eighteen farthest right in a line-up by a US Army colonel who had been drinking and was running out of time before nightfall. Some among the eighteen had nothing to do with the insurrection.\n\nThe army assigned First Lieutenant (later Captain) Richard Henry Pratt to transport the prisoners to an old Spanish fort, the Castillo de San Marcos (then known as Fort Marion), near Saint Augustine. Shackled together, they were taken across country on foot, by wagon, train (most had never before seen a train), and steamboat. Many initially thought they would be executed. At least two attempted suicide; one was later shot and killed attempting to escape, and another died of pneumonia.\n\nCaptain Pratt supported assimilation of American Indians into European-American mainstream society. He thought they needed to abandon their cultures and religions and learn the various practices of America's dominant white culture to survive: English, wage work, Christianity, literacy, mainstream education, and so on. The practice of forced assimilation, now criticized as cultural genocide, was considered progressive by its practitioners of the time. Many European-Americans considered Native Americans to be enemies and murderers who should be killed, imprisoned, or defeated through force. Pratt's superior, General Philip Sheridan, dismissed Pratt's beliefs as \"Indian twaddle\".\n\nConditions at the old fort were initially very poor: prisoners slept on the floor of their cells facing a central open-air courtyard. Several died in the first weeks. Pratt quickly improved conditions, obtaining army uniforms, removing the prisoners' shackles, setting them to work building a new residential shed, and procuring bedding. Later, as trust developed on both sides, Pratt convinced his superiors to allow the Indians to carry nonoperational rifles, perform guard duty, obtain outside employment collecting and selling sea beans and other tourist items, have passes to visit the town on Sundays to attend church, and camp unsupervised on nearby Anastasia Island.\n\nPratt, who offered to resign his military post if the experiment failed, appointed Oakerhater First Sergeant of the prisoners, with a duty to organize morning military drills, ensure hygiene and dress code, choose assistants for Captain Pratt, and oversee the prisoners in Pratt's absence. Pratt and his wife also arranged for volunteer teachers who were vacationing in Florida from across the United States to instruct the prisoners in English, carpentry, and other subjects. They allowed the Indians to conduct a mock buffalo hunt.\n\nIn return the prisoners educated townspeople and tourists in archery, and made handicrafts and drawings to sell. Aware for their part of the nature of Pratt's experiment, the prisoners took pride in their work and martial discipline, eager to demonstrate that they could master white Americans' cultural and military practices. They took longer to overcome other cultural barriers, such as discomfort with being taught by women. The first summer Pratt arranged for their families to visit them from the Indian Territory. Within two years of arrival at Fort Marion, Oakerhater was proficient in English, and was regularly writing letters to townspeople he had befriended. That year nineteen of the prisoners were released, in exchange for accepting scholarships for education on the East Coast.\n\nOne of Pratt's experiments was to provide art supplies and instruction to the prisoners. They drew most of their art in pen in ledger books. Somewhat abstract in style and depicting nostalgic memories of scenes from daily life, their art drew inspiration from earlier Plains Indian hide painting, which included personal narratives and winter counts, calendar chronicles of tribal events. Typical subjects included community dances, hunts, courting, and events at the fort, as well as self-portraits depicting scenes before their imprisonment. The ledger art was a popular item for tourists to purchase. Through his art, Oakerhater gained the attention of Mrs. Alice Key Pendleton, to whose daughter he had given one of his drawing books.\n\nOakerhater was the first and one of the most prolific, artists in the group. Oakerhater's drawings are considered by critics to be sophisticated in composition and subject content. These artworks are highly collectible today. He often signed his works \"Making Medicine,\" a non-literal English translation of his Cheyenne name, Sun Dancer, which the military had assigned him upon his arrest. Other times he would sign with a glyph of a dancer in a sun dance lodge to represent himself. The Smithsonian Institution has a collection of the Fort Marion artists online.\n\nIn 1877 an Episcopal deaconess, Mary Douglass Burnham, began to make arrangements to sponsor the remaining prisoners, including Oakerhater, to serve as church sextons and continue education. In April 1878 all of the prisoners were released. Burnham arranged funding from Alice Key Pendleton and her husband, Senator George H. Pendleton, to bring Oakerhater, as well as his wife Nomee, to St. Paul's Church in Paris Hill, New York, along with three other ex-prisoners who each had separate sponsors. The church's priest, Reverend J.B. Wicks, took charge of Oakerhater's education on matters of agriculture, Scripture, and current events, and welcomed him as part of his family. Oakerhater, along with his three companions from Fort Marion, became popular among townspeople. They made and sold various items, including handmade bows. Within six months Oakerhater agreed to be baptized and was confirmed shortly after. He chose the biblical Christian name David and adopted the last name Pendleton in honor of his sponsors.\nIn 1878, Oakerhater was baptized at Grace Episcopal Church in Syracuse and ordained a deacon at that same church in 1881.\nCaptain Pratt, encouraged by the success of his former prisoners at Paris Hill and some at Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute for Negroes (now Hampton University), lobbied the federal government for funds to open schools for Indian children. Senator Pendleton pushed a bill through Congress to found the first school in 1879 at the unused Carlisle Barracks in central Pennsylvania. It was named the Carlisle Indian Industrial School.\n\nIn July, 1880 Nomee died in childbirth. The next year Oakerhater's young son Pawwahnee died. Both were buried in the cemetery in Paris Hill. Oakerhater was ordained an Episcopal deacon in July, 1881. According to sources, O-kuh-ha-tah’s son, Frederick; wife, Millie; and another child, who died at birth, are buried in the church cemetery in Paris Hill, New York.\n\nAfter Oakerhater was ordained a deacon, Pratt sent him on a trip to Indian Territory and Dakota Territory to recruit students for Carlisle, where Pratt had been appointed superintendent. Traveling with Reverend Wicks to the Darlington Agency near what is now El Reno, Oklahoma, Oakerhater used his connections and influence to encourage local Cheyenne to attend Episcopal religious services. Remaining in the area, he traveled to the Anadarko Agency (near present-day Anadarko, Oklahoma) for Sunday services, spending weekdays visiting and caring for ill members of various tribes.\n\nIn 1882 Oakerhater married Nahepo (Smoking Woman), who adopted the English name Susie Pendleton. They had two children, who both died young. Nahepo died in 1890, at age 23.\n\nIn 1887 Oakerhater began work at newly built missions in Bridgeport, and in 1889 at the Whirlwind Mission near Fay, seventeen miles west of Watonga, Oklahoma. The mission, built in 1887, was on the Dawes Act allotment land of Chief Whirlwind, one of the negotiators of the Treaty of Medicine Lodge. As at other Indian schools being established in the United States, many of Whirlwind's students suffered from poverty and related diseases. Many suffered from trachoma and conjunctivitis.\n\nTheir parents, whose lives had been disrupted by colonialism, warfare, forcible relocation, and the breaking up of tribal lands for allotment, were exploited by local non-Indians who wanted to profit from their newly assigned land grants. Uprooted, the families would often camp out near the schools to be with their children and provide a safer environment. Oakerhater's school and mission were under pressure both from locals, who saw the mission as a threat to their attempts to exploit the Native American population, and from others at the local and national level, who deplored the poor conditions there.\n\nOakerhater retired from Whilrwind with a pension in 1918 but continued to preach, serving as a Native American chief and holy man. He moved briefly to Clinton, Oklahoma and then to Watonga, where he lived until his death in 1931.\n\nAfter Oakerhater died, the Episcopal Church did not sponsor significant mission work in Watonga, Oklahoma for more than thirty years. In the early 1960s, an Episcopalian family that had moved to the area placed an ad in a local paper to announce a meeting in their home. Native Americans who had known Oakerhater met with the family and worked with them to revive his old mission.\n\nIn 1985 the Episcopal Church designated Oakerhater as a saint, thanks in part to the years of work and research by Lois Carter Clark, a Muscogee Creek scholar. On September 1, 1986, the first feast was held in his honor at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington, D.C., with his descendants and delegations from Oklahoma invited to the celebration. In 2000 the Saint George Church of Dayton, Ohio dedicated a large stained glass window in its chapel depicting Oakerhater, and a smaller window bearing his glyph signature.\n\nSt. Paul's Cathedral in Oklahoma City dedicated a chapel to St. Oakerhater. The congregation of St. Paul's commissioned Tlingit glass artist, Preston Singletary, to create a stained glass window featuring Oakerhater's glyph. It replaced a church window destroyed in the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing. The Oakerhater Guild of St. Paul's was organized in partnership with Whirlwind Mission of the Holy Family and sponsors dances, tribal outreach, and a vacation Bible school for children in Watonga.\n\nIn 2003 the Whirlwind Church obtained at a new permanent site in Watonga, where it dedicated the Oakerhater Episcopal Center in September 2007. The site is used for powwows, a sweat lodge, classes, and an annual Cherokee Dance in Oakerhater's honor.\n\nGrace Episcopal Church in Syracuse, NY is a national shrine to Saint O-kuh-ha-tah. On Saturday, April 16, 2005, a Native American Celebration was held there to honor Cheyenne Saint David Pendleton Oakerhater (O-kuh-ha-tah/Making Medicine), the first Native American saint of the Episcopal Church, and Oneida Marcia Pierce Steele, teacher of both Haudenosaunee (Iroquois) cultural traditions and Christian beliefs. Grace Church’s celebration included a day-long cultural festival, followed by holy eucharist and a blessing of new memorial stained-glass windows. Roberta Whiteshield-Butler, great-granddaughter of O-kuh-ha-tah, created the drawings for the windows. Rose Viviano of Rose Colored Glass fabricated the windows which were installed in September 2004 and blessed by Bishop Adams at the April 2005 celebration. Saint O-kuh-ha-tah’s descendants travelled from Oklahoma and Texas to attend the celebration at Grace Episcopal Church in Syracuse, New York. Prior to the celebration, O-kuh-ha-tah descendants (great-great grandson, Jack Southmeth; granddaughter Elizabeth Whiteshield; great-granddaughter Kim Whiteshield; and great-great granddaughter Starr Whiteshield) travelled to St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in Paris Hill (near Utica) to visit O-kuh-ha-tah’s home church and the graves of their ancestors. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "46283425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46283425", "title": "Deoki Jatia", "text": "Deoki Jatia\n\nDeoki Nandan Jatia (1930 – 12 November 2000) was an Indian philatelist who was added to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1983.\n"}
{"id": "10143403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10143403", "title": "Dirk Demol", "text": "Dirk Demol\n\nDirk Demol (born 4 November 1959 in Kuurne, Belgium) is directeur sportif for UCI World Tour team Trek–Segafredo. His specialization as a director is the spring classics, having himself won the 1988 edition of the one-day classic Paris–Roubaix, riding as a professional cyclist for Team ADR.\n\n"}
{"id": "57466298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57466298", "title": "Ebtisam al Saegh", "text": "Ebtisam al Saegh\n\nEbtisam al Saegh is a human rights defender from Bahrain with the organisation SALAM for Democracy and Human Rights (SALAM DHR). She is considered a \"vital human rights advocate\" at a time when freedom of expression is increasingly dangerous in Bahrain.\n\nIn November 2016 al Saegh was questioned by authorities under suspicion of “inciting hatred against the Bahraini regime” and “threatening public safety and security” for posts she had made on Twitter.\n\nIn May 2017, Amnesty International documented the arrest, torture, including sexual assault, of Ebtisam al-Saegh at the Bahrain's National Security Agency (NSA). When al-Saegh was detained in May 2017, she was physically and sexually abused, and received threats to murder her and her children. She was told by the officers involved in her torture that she was being targeted because she was a human rights defender and that her perpetrators were from Bahrain's NSA.\n\nOn 3 July 2017, Ebtisam al-Saegh tweeted about the ill treatment of women at the hands of the NSA and held the King of Bahrain responsible for their actions. On the night of 3–4 July 2017, al Seagh was detained at approximately 11:45 p.m. local time by state security forces. According to Amnesty International, around 25 officers claiming to belong to the Criminal Investigation Directorate arrived at her house in five civilian cars and a minibus without an arrest warrant.\n\nHer whereabouts are unknown and the fear is she will face the same or worse treatment this time.\n\nAmnesty International and Bahraini democracy advocates based in Britain and the US expressed concern for her safety.The Bahrain Centre for Human Rights called for her immediate release and of all nonviolent activists and detainees held arbitrarily due to their human rights work. Samah Hadid, director for Amnesty International campaigns in the Middle East, criticised the basis of the arrest. She said, \"the Bahraini authorities must immediately and unconditionally release Ebtisam al-Saegh, whose only crime is speaking up against a government committed to crushing all forms of dissent.”\n\nIn response, the press office of Bahrain’s embassy in London wrote that Bahrain is “firmly committed to the protection and safeguarding of human rights” and has oversight bodies to safeguard them and independently investigate violations.\n\n"}
{"id": "4852030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4852030", "title": "Edward Clark (architect)", "text": "Edward Clark (architect)\n\nEdward Clark (August 15, 1822 – January 6, 1902) was an American architect who served as Architect of the Capitol from 1865 to 1902.\n\nClark was born in August 1822 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to James and Mary ( Cottman) Clark. His grandfather, Michael Clark, was of English stock from Lancashire, England but born in Dublin, Ireland. Michael Clark emigrated to the United States at the end of the American Revolutionary War to avoid anti-Catholic persecution in England. Edward Clark's father, James, was one of Michael's three sons, and was not only an architect in Philadelphia but a well-known teacher of architectural drawing. Edward Clark's mother, Mary, was the daughter of John Cottman, a captain in the Pennsylvania Regiment during the American Revolution.\n\nEdward Clark was educated in both public and private schools in Philadelphia. He received his architectural training from his uncle, Thomas Clark, who was an engineer in the United States Army Corps of Engineers. He received training in architectural and free-hand drawing from his father.\n\nWhile still in his late teens, Clark was apprenticed to the nationally known Philadelphia architect Thomas U. Walter. While an apprentice, he helped Walter design and plan the buildings for Girard College. In 1851, Walter was appointed the Architect of the Capitol and charged with designing and building the United States Capitol dome and the north (Senate) and south (House) wings of the United States Capitol. Clark accompanied Walter to Washington, D.C., and was Walter's chief assistant on the three projects. Although Walter was author of the general plan and layout of the dome wings, nearly all the detail work was done by Clark. While architectural and planning work progressed on the dome in the 1850s, Clark also assisted Walter in completing the U.S. Patent Office Building and the D.C. General Post Office building.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Clark also designed and oversaw the construction of numerous arsenals, forts, and hospitals in the Washington, D.C., area.\n\nClark was appointed Capitol architect by President Andrew Johnson upon his mentor's resignation on August 30, 1865, and completed the extension project in 1868. Clark introduced many technological improvements to the Capitol, including electricity, steam heat, and elevators. During Clark's tenure, the Capitol Grounds were greatly enlarged and Frederick Law Olmsted, the greatest landscape architect of the day, was commissioned to design the grounds and terraces. Also during Clark's administration, the Library of Congress moved to its own building, and the west central interior of the Capitol was reconstructed.\n\nIn 1872, Clark was hired by the state of Iowa to revise plans for the Iowa State Capitol, whose original design had proven too costly to build. Clark retained the general plan of the building, and (working closely with original co-designer Alfred H. Piquenard), revised the plans. It was Clark's building which was eventually constructed.\n\nEdward Clark loved literature, and owned one of the largest private libraries in the city at the time of his death. Although not a musician himself, he also loved music and had one of the largest private music libraries in the region. He spoke French, Italian, and Latin, and his library contained a large number of works in architecture written in those languages. An ardent art admirer, he was a close friend of William Wilson Corcoran, who founded the Corcoran Gallery of Art. Clark sat on the Corcoran Gallery's board of trustees since its founding, and at the time of his death was the longest-serving trustee.\n\nClark was a member of the Clarendon Historical Society of Edinburgh, the American Institute of Architects, the Archeological Institute of America, the American Institute for the Advancement of Science, the Franklin Institute, the American Forestry Association, and the Washington Monument Society.\n\nClark married Evelyn F. Freeman of Boston, Massachusetts, in 1860. She was a descendant of Sir Edward Freeman, one of the first settlers of Cape Cod. They had two sons, Edward and Watson, and twin daughters, Eveline and Charlotte. Evelyn Clark died in 1896.\n\nClark was enfeebled by old age in the last two years of his life. He died on January 6, 1902, at his home in Washington, D.C., of an undisclosed illness from which he had suffered for several weeks. An Episcopalian, he was buried at Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington.\n"}
{"id": "51532677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51532677", "title": "Egba Kotan II", "text": "Egba Kotan II\n\nEgba Kotan II is the king of the Yoruba State of Dassa in central Benin. The king rose to the throne on March 3, 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "21812916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21812916", "title": "Emmanuel Rukundo", "text": "Emmanuel Rukundo\n\nEmmanuel Rukundo (born 1 December 1959) is a Rwandan Roman Catholic priest who in 2009 was convicted of genocide and crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) for his participation in the 1994 Rwandan Genocide.\n\nRukundo was born in Kabgayi, Gitarama Province, Rwanda. He was ordained a priest in the Roman Catholic Church in 1991. In 1993, he became a chaplain in the Rwandan military.\n\nRukundo was also head to the St. Leon Minor Seminary in the Gitarama at the time of the 1994 Genocide. According to findings by the ICTR, he ordered Hutu soldiers to abduct and murder Tutsi refugees who were seeking shelter at St. Leon's. Rukundo was also found guilty of personally sexually assaulting a young Tutsi woman.\n\nFollowing the genocide, Rukundo fled to Switzerland, where he was granted asylum as a refugee. He was arrested by Swiss officials in July 2001 after a warrant for his arrest was issued by the ICTR. Rukundo fought his extradition in the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland, but his case was dismissed and on 20 September 2001 he was sent to Arusha, Tanzania, to stand trial before the ICTR.\n\nRukundo's trial began on 15 November 2006 and was completed in February 2008. In February 2009, the Trial Chamber of the ICTR found him guilty of one count of genocide and multiple counts of murder as a crime against humanity. The Trial Chamber sentenced him to 25 years' imprisonment, but it was reduced to 23 years' imprisonment in October 2010.\n\nIn July 2016, Rukundo requested early release from prison to the ICTR due to rehabilitation, and in December 2016, was released from prison in Mali alongside Ferdinand Nahimana, having served 16 of the 23 years of his sentence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5882425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5882425", "title": "Eric Rofes", "text": "Eric Rofes\n\nEric Rofes (August 31, 1954 – June 26, 2006) was a gay activist, educator, and author who wrote or edited 12 books.\n\nEric Rofes was born on August 31, 1954 and grew up in Commack, New York. He graduated from Harvard University and went on to receive a master's degree from the University of California, Berkeley in 1995 as well as a doctorate in social and cultural studies in 1998.\n\nHe was appointed to the White House Conference on the Family in 1980. He became director of the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Center in the 1980s. In 1989, he became executive director of the Shanti Project, a nonprofit AIDS service organization in San Francisco. He resigned in 1993, following an audit that questioned how the group had spent federal funds.\n\nIn 1998, while doing his PhD at UC Berkeley, Rofes wrote \"\", in which he argued that the AIDS crisis had passed and gay men needed to free themselves from the sense of emergency and victimhood. A review in The Nation described \"Dry Bones Breathe\" as \"perhaps the most important book about gay male culture and community of the past decade.\" However, the book has also been castigated for only limning the experiences of 'middle-class, urban, white, gay men' instead of being more societally inclusive.\n\nHe was a professor of Education at Humboldt State University in Arcata, California, and served on the board of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force and White Crane Institute. One of the last projects he worked on was the creation, with Chris Bartlett, of a series of \"Gay Men's Health Leadership Academies\" to combat what he saw as a \"pathology-focused understanding of gay men\" in safe-sex education. These workshops have continued as a continuation of his legacy.\n\nHe was living in Provincetown, Massachusetts, working on his 13th book when he died of a heart attack.\n\nHumboldt State established the Eric Rofes Center after his death as a new program in honor of his legacy and to continue his work in queer-feminist activism. The Eric Rofes Multicultural Queer Resource center is a student-run, student-funded initiative that provides programming and resources for Humboldt State University's LGBTQIA community. It is located in Warren House #53 on campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "8727900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8727900", "title": "Harvey Pratt", "text": "Harvey Pratt\n\nHarvey Phillip Pratt (born 1941) is an American forensic artist and Native American artist, who has worked for over forty years in law enforcement, completing thousands of composite drawings and hundreds of soft tissue postmortem reconstructions. To this end, his work has assisted in thousands of arrests and hundreds of identification of unidentified human remains throughout America. His expertise in witness description drawing, skull reconstruction, skull tracing, age progression, soft tissue postmortem drawing and restoration of photographs and videos have aided law enforcement agencies both nationally and internationally. Pratt also assists investigations though training classes, besides lecturing before universities, colleges, schools and civic groups. In the early 2000's Pratt teamed up with David Paulides in researching Bigfoot on the Hoopa Reservation in California, as well as in his home state of Oklahoma.\n\nPratt was born in El Reno, Oklahoma and is a member of the Cheyenne & Arapaho tribes where he is recognized as one of the traditional Cheyenne Peace Chiefs, also known as the Council of Forty-Four. He has been recognized by the Cheyenne People as an Outstanding Southern Cheyenne. He is the great grandson of scout, guide, interpreter and Sand Creek massacre survivor, Edmund Guerrier. He is the great great grandson of American frontiersman, William Bent. Pratt lives in Guthrie, Oklahoma.\n\nPratt began his career with Oklahoma's Midwest City Police Department in 1965, where, as a police officer, he completed his first composite drawing that resulted in an arrest and conviction. He joined the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation in 1972 as a narcotics investigator and retired in 1992 as an Assistant Director. He is now employed with the agency as a full-time forensic specialist.\n\nPratt's forensic expertise has contributed to many high-profile cases: The Green River Killer (Gary Ridgeway), Oklahoma Girl Scout Murders (Gene Leroy Hart), Henry Lee Lucas and Ottis Toole, Bobby Joe Long, The I-5 Killer (Randall Woodfield), Tommy Ward and Karl Fontenot, Tommy Lynn Sells, World Trade Center 1993 bombings, Ted Bundy, Sirloin Stockade Murders (Roger Dale Stafford, Verna Stafford and Harold Stafford), Joe Fischer, Roger Wheeler murder, the Oklahoma City bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, Donald Eugene Webb, Oklahoma State Fair Abducted Girls (Roy Russell Long), and Randolph Dial.\n\nIn the mid 1980s, Pratt developed the soft tissue postmortem drawing method. Using this method, the forensic artist draws or paints on the photograph of a victim to repair tissue damage or decomposition. The drawing repairs the trauma to the victim so that the final image will be more presentable when asking for law enforcement's or the public's assistance in identification.\n\nPratt encompasses painting, sculpting, wood carving, mural painting, bronze work, architectural design and graphic design. He is a self-taught artist and creates in the media of oil, acrylic, watercolor, metal, clay and wood. His artwork is a blend of his forensic art and law enforcement experience with traditional Native American environment.\n\nPratt has received awards for his artwork at Inter-Tribal Indian Ceremonials, Gallup, New Mexico, and Red Earth Festival, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. In 2005, he was given the title \"Master Artist\" by Red Earth, as well as being selected as the \"Red Earth 2005 Honored One\".\n\nHis works are in many permanent collections, including the National Park Service, the Smithsonian Institution, the Sequoyah National Research Center, and the University of Oklahoma. He accepted state appointments to the Oklahoma Arts Council by Governor Frank Keating and Governor Brad Henry.\n\nPratt provided forensic artwork for David Paulides in the books Tribal Bigfoot and The Hoopa Project. Through extensive research, interviews and travels, Pratt produced dozens of forensic sketches from witnesses that David Paulides and himself met in California and his home state of Oklahoma. Pratt also has an online store on his own personal website where he sells bigfoot artwork.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22397228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22397228", "title": "Hayranidil Kadın", "text": "Hayranidil Kadın\n\nHayranidil Kadın (; 21 November 1846 – 26 November 1895), meaning 'The excellent heart', was the second wife of Sultan Abdülaziz of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nOf Circassian origin, Hayranıdil Kadın was born on 21 November 1846 in Kars, Caucasus.\n\nHayranıdil married Abdülaziz in 1861 in the Dolmabahçe Palace, after his accession to the throne. She was given the title of \"Ikinci Kadın\". Five years after the marriage, on 25 February 1866, she gave birth to her first child, a daughter, Nazıma Sultan, and two years later on 29 May 1868, she gave birth to her second child, a son, Şehzade Abdulmejid (future Caliph Abdulmejid II). \n\nHayranıdil was celebrated as the most beautiful woman of the imperial household.\n\nAbdülaziz was deposed by his ministers on 30 May 1876, his nephew Murad V became the Sultan. He was transferred to Feriye Palace the next day. Hayranıdil, and other women of Abdülaziz's entourage didn't wanted to leave the Dolmabahçe Palace. So they were grabbed by hand and were send out to the Feriye Palace. In the process, they were searched from head to toe and everything of value was taken from them. On 4 June 1876, Abdülaziz died under mysterious circumstances.\n\nHayranıdil Kadın died on 26 November 1895 in the Ortaköy Palace, and was buried in the mausoleum of Sultan Mahmud II, located at Divan Yolu street, Istanbul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29163031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29163031", "title": "J. T. Whitney", "text": "J. T. Whitney\n\nJohn Timothy Whitney (14 December 1945 – 15 December 1990), known also as Tim Whitney, was an expert on British postmarks who wrote a popular catalogue on the subject that has been through many editions, and the definitive guide to the stamps and postal history of the Isle of Man. He was also an expert on the philately of the French coastal islands.\n\nTim obtained a degree in theology from \"Oxford University\" and in 1975 a Ph.D. from \"Nottingham University\".\nHe ran the religious studies department at South East Essex Sixth Form College for many years.\n\nHe had suffered from muscular dystrophy since his teens and was an active fundraiser for MD causes. He died in Southend-On-Sea, Essex, the day after his 45th birthday.\n\n"}
{"id": "4279440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4279440", "title": "Jill Johnston", "text": "Jill Johnston\n\nJill Johnston (May 17, 1929 – September 18, 2010) was an American feminist author and cultural critic who wrote \"Lesbian Nation\" in 1973 and was a longtime writer for \"The Village Voice\". She was also a leader of the lesbian separatist movement of the 1970s. Johnston also wrote under the pen name F. J. Crowe.\n\nBorn as Jill Crowe in London, England in 1929, the only child of Olive Marjorie Crowe (born 1901), an American nurse, and Cyril F. Johnston (1884–1950), a British bellfounder and clockmaker whose family firm, Gillett & Johnston, created the carillon of Riverside Church in New York City. Her parents, who never married, separated when their daughter was an infant, and Johnston's mother took her to Little Neck, Long Island, New York, where she was raised.\n\nAfter attending college in Massachusetts and Minnesota, Johnston received an M.F.A. from the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.\n\nFor many years beginning in 1959 and during the 1960s, Johnston was the dance critic for \"The Village Voice\", the weekly downtown newspaper for New York City. She was friendly with many performers, performance artists, composers, poets and artists in New York City especially during the 1960s and 1970s. During the late 1960s Deborah Jowitt joined the paper and wrote a regular dance column for \"the Voice\", while Johnston's dance column became a kind of weekly diary, chronicling her adventures in the New York art world.\n\nJohnston was a member of a 1971 New York City panel produced by Shirley Broughton as part of the \"Theater for Ideas\" series. The event was a vigorous debate on feminism with Norman Mailer, author; Germaine Greer, author; Diana Trilling, literary critic; and Jacqueline Ceballos, National Organization for Women president. The event was also billed as an intellectual \"Battle of the Sexes\" – effectively promoting Mailer's then-just-published, feminism-critical book \"Prisoner of Sex\" (1971). In the middle of this jam-packed event, Johnston came onstage with two feminist friends. Johnston read a poem, after which the three women simulated (fully dressed) three-way lesbian sex (indulging in a bit of feminist Guerilla theatre, which she admitted she had learned from the Yippies) and quickly exited. Despite this colorful interruption, Greer and Mailer continued to exchange verbal blows with each other (and the audience) for the remainder of the 3½ hour event. This event was widely written about (since so many writers were in attendance, including Susan Sontag and Cynthia Ozick) and filmed by the now-legendary documentary filmmaker D.A. Pennebaker, eventually becoming the cult-documentary titled \"Town Bloody Hall\".\n\nAs this incident illustrates, Johnston's self-described \"east west flower child beat hip psychedelic paradise now love peace do your own thing approach to the revolution\" (as she called it in Lesbian Nation) often confounded her feminist allies as much as it did the conservative foes of gay and lesbian liberation. In 1973, she predicted \n\nAs recorded in \"Lesbian Nation\", Johnston often was at the center of controversies within the feminist movement of the 1960s and 1970s. She famously went on record stating that \"all women are lesbians except those that don't know it yet.\"\n\nJohnston was also one of the first countercultural and lesbian writers at \"Ms.\" magazine, eventually coming to the conclusion that the magazine was too mainstream, ultimately presenting feminism as palatable, family-friendly and safe. According to author Vivian Gornick:\n\nFor radical feminists like me, Ellen Willis, and Jill Johnston, we had a different kind of magazine in mind. We came out against marriage and motherhood. Gloria Steinem was uptown; we were downtown. She hung out with Establishment figures; we had only ourselves. It very quickly became obvious at that first meeting that they wanted a glossy that would appeal to the women who read the \"Ladies' Home Journal\". We didn't want that, so they walked away with it.\n\nOn another occasion, Johnston grew bored at a poolside press conference given by feminist Betty Friedan, and so decided to strip off her top and take a swim.\n\nIn 1977, Johnson became an associate of the Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press (WIFP). WIFP is an American nonprofit publishing organization. The organization works to increase communication between women and connect the public with forms of women-based media.\n\nJohnston's career as a dance critic was hampered by the controversy that attended the publication of \"Lesbian Nation\" and the publicity engendered by her dramatic style of lesbian feminist activism. She remained with \"The Village Voice\" until 1981 and subsequently wrote freelance art and literary criticism. Along with the political memoirs, \"Lesbian Nation\" and \"Gullible's Travels\", Johnston published an anthology of dance criticism entitled \"Marmalade Me\" as well as the autobiographies \"Mother Bound\" and \"Paper Daughter\".\n\nDescribed by one critic as \"part Gertrude Stein, part E. E. Cummings, with a dash of Jack Kerouac thrown for good measure,\" Johnston's freeform, fluid writing style of the 1970s matched the colorful nature of the tales recounted in her books \"Lesbian Nation\" and \"Gullibles Travels\". Her later work as a literary and art critic for \"Art in America\" and the \"New York Times Review of Books\" is more standard in tone and content. Early writing not collected in other volumes can be found in \"Admission Accomplished\" while the critical biography \"Jasper Johns\" represents an example of her later style.\n\nJohnston is the subject of one of Andy Warhol's portrait films, \"Jill\", a 4½-minute silent movie shot in black and white (1963).\n\nIn 1958 Johnston married Richard John Lanham, whom she divorced in 1964. They had two children, a son, Richard Renault Lanham, and a daughter, Winifred Brooke Lanham.\n\nIn 1993, in Denmark, she married Ingrid Nyeboe. The couple married again, in Connecticut, in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2407498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2407498", "title": "Jim J. Bullock", "text": "Jim J. Bullock\n\nJames Jackson Bullock (born February 9, 1955), sometimes credited as Jm J. Bullock, is an American actor and comedian of stage, television and motion pictures.\n\nBullock was born in Casper, Wyoming, and raised in Odessa, Texas (although he is listed as an alumnus of Natrona County High School (Casper, Wyoming)), and was raised in a Southern Baptist home and as a youth, planned to become an evangelical Christian minister. He received a music scholarship to attend Oklahoma Baptist University in Shawnee, Oklahoma, but left school without graduating.\n\nBullock became a notable entertainment figure in the 1980s when he co-starred on the sitcom \"Too Close for Comfort\" as Monroe Ficus (credited as \"Jm J. Bullock\") and was a regular guest on John Davidson's updated version of \"Hollywood Squares\"; Bullock occasionally substituted for Davidson as host. He also appeared as a semi-regular on \"Battlestars\". He later became a semi-regular on \"ALF\" (from 1989 to 1990) as Neal Tanner. He guest-hosted a special episode of \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" in 1989 where host Marc Summers and announcer Harvey played against each other. The game ended with both Summers and Harvey playing the Obstacle Course and winning all eight prizes for their respective civilian teammates. Stage assistants Robin Marrella and Dave Shikiar guest-announced that episode.\n\nAfter \"ALF\" went off the air in 1990, Bullock remained active with theatre, television, and film work. He briefly hosted a syndicated talk show with ex-televangelist Tammy Faye Messner. The \"Jim J. and Tammy Faye Show\" debuted in 1996, but Messner exited the program a few months later following a cancer diagnosis. Bullock continued with new co-host, Ann Abernathy, and the show became \"The Jim J. and Ann Show\" until it was canceled.\n\nBullock was the voice of \"Queer Duck\" in the animated series of cartoons of the same name which have appeared on both the internet and the cable TV network Showtime. In 2000, Bullock was a regular panelist on the revival of \"I've Got a Secret\". He also performed on the national tour of the Broadway production \"Hairspray\" as Wilbur Turnblad, a role he took to the Broadway stage starting September 18, 2007. Some of his other noteworthy roles include the pilled-up narcoleptic Prince Valium in the 1987 Mel Brooks movie \"Spaceballs\", and the \"Not-Quite-Out-of-the-Closet\" character in the date montage at the beginning of 2001's \"Kissing Jessica Stein\". From 2004 to 2007, he had a recurring role as Mr. Monroe, a teacher at the fictional James K. Polk Middle School on the Nickelodeon live action sitcom \"Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide\".\n\nIn 1985, while \"Too Close For Comfort\" was being retooled as \"The Ted Knight Show\", Bullock learned that he was HIV positive. In a 1985 appearance on the game show \"Body Language\", host Tom Kennedy described him as looking \"like you're in the pink of health and all of that,\" to which a flustered Bullock responded \"I'm, I'm...no, I'm about to die, actually. But let's not talk about that now, OK? Fabulous.\" Kennedy then remarked that \"If you've got about four days left in you, we'll make it till Thursday,\" and Bullock replied, \"I've got four days, yeah.\"\n\nIn 1996, Bullock's partner of six years, John Casey, died from AIDS-related complications. Bullock is a longtime survivor of the virus and, as of 2011, was still healthy due in part to antiretroviral drugs.\n\nOn February 17, 1999, Bullock was arrested outside a bar in West Hollywood, California, for possession of crystal meth, and was sentenced to probation.\n\n"}
{"id": "153180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153180", "title": "John A. Roebling", "text": "John A. Roebling\n\nJohn Augustus Roebling (born Johann August Röbling; June 12, 1806 – July 22, 1869) was a German-born American civil engineer. He designed and built wire rope suspension bridges, in particular the Brooklyn Bridge, which has been designated as a National Historic Landmark and a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark.\nAt first John attended the gymnasium in Mühlhausen. John was born to Friederike Dorothea Röbling (née Muelleren) and Christoph Polykarpus Röbling. Recognizing his intelligence at a young age, Roebling's mother arranged for him to be tutored in mathematics and science at Erfurt by Ephraim Salomon Unger. He went to Erfurt when he was 15. In 1824 he passed his Surveyor's examination and returned home for a year. In 1824 he enrolled for two semesters at the Bauakademie in Berlin, where he studied architecture and engineering under Martin Friedrich Rabe (1765–1856), bridge construction and foundation construction under Johann Friedrich Dietlein (1782–1837), hydraulics under Johann Albert Eytelwein (1764–1848), and languages. Roebling also attended lectures of the philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Roebling developed an interest in natural philosophy and many years later he worked on a 1000-page treatise about his own concepts of the universe.\n\nIn 1825 Roebling got a government job at Arnsberg, Westphalia, working on military road building for four years. During this period he made sketches for suspension bridges. In 1829 he returned to his home to work out his final thesis and prepare for his second engineer examination. For unknown reasons, he never took the examination.\n\nOn May 22, 1831, Roebling left Prussia with his brother Carl and Johann Adolphus Etzler, who believed in a technological utopia, and a group of emigrants. Engineers had difficulty advancing and achieving economic mobility in Prussian society. The Napoleonic Wars, which lasted until 1815, had suppressed investment in infrastructure. During this period, Prussia had political unrest, as authoritarian governments took the places of democratic ones. Etzler had ideas about creating a utopia in the United States, but disputes arose en route, and the group split up. John and Carl purchased 1582 acres (6.4 km²) of land on October 28, 1831, in Butler County, Pennsylvania with the intent to establish a German settlement, to be called Saxonburg. Most of the other settlers had remained with Etzler. The John Roebling House at Saxonburg was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1976.\n\nWhen the Roeblings and others arrived, the United States was in the later stages of an economic boom, which ended in the Panic of 1837. Farmers were deeply affected by it. By the 1840s, many Americans believed in the nation's manifest destiny to extend its borders and achieve greatness. Transportation between eastern industrial hubs and frontier farming markets had become a matter of both national and popular interest. Many railway and transportation projects were underway near the site which Roebling chose for his colony, but instead of continuing in the engineering profession, he took up farming. After five years he married Johanna Herting, a tailor's daughter.\n\nHe found agrarian work unsatisfying, and the colony attracted very few settlers. In 1837, after the death of his brother Carl and the birth of his first child, Roebling returned to engineering as a vocation. He first worked on projects to improve river navigation and build canals. For three years, he conducted surveys for railway lines across the Allegheny Mountains, from Harrisburg to Pittsburgh, for the state of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1840 he wrote to suspension bridge designer Charles Ellet, Jr., offering to help with the design of a bridge near Philadelphia:\nThe study of suspension bridges formed for the last few years of my residence in Europe my favourite occupation ... Let but a single bridge of the kind be put up in Philadelphia, exhibiting all the beautiful forms of the system to full advantage, and it needs no prophecy to foretell the effect which the novel and useful features will produce upon the intelligent minds of the Americans.\n\nRoebling began producing wire rope at Saxonburg in 1841. At that time canal boats from Philadelphia were transported over the Allegheny Mountains on railroad cars in order to access waterways on the other side of the mountains, so that the boats could continue to Pittsburgh. The system of inclines and levels that moved the boats and conventional railroad cars was a state-owned enterprise, the Allegheny Portage Railroad. The railroad cars were pulled up and down the inclines by a long loop of thick hemp rope, up to 7 centimeters thick. The hemp ropes were expensive and had to be replaced frequently. Roebling remembered an article he had read about wire ropes. Soon after, he started developing a 7-strand wire rope at a ropewalk that he built on his farm.\n\nIn 1844 Roebling won a bid to replace the wooden canal aqueduct across the Allegheny River with the Allegheny Aqueduct. His design encompassed seven spans of 163 feet (50 m), each consisting of a wooden trunk to hold the water, supported by a continuous cable made of many parallel wires, wrapped tightly together, on each side of the trunk. He followed this innovation in 1845 by building a suspension bridge over the Monongahela River at Pittsburgh.\n\nIn 1848 Roebling undertook the construction of four suspension aqueducts on the Delaware and Hudson Canal. During this period, he moved to Trenton, New Jersey. In Trenton, Roebling built a large industrial complex for wire production. This complex inspired the Trenton, New Jersey motto on Trenton's Lower Trenton Bridge: \"Trenton Makes, the World Takes\". \n\nRoebling's next project, starting in 1851, was a railroad bridge connecting the New York Central and Great Western Railway of Canada over the Niagara River. Construction took four years. The bridge, with a clear span of 825 feet (251 m), was supported by four, ten-inch (25 cm) wire cables, and had two levels, one for vehicles and one for rail traffic.\n\nWhile the Niagara bridge was being built, Roebling undertook a railway suspension bridge across the Kentucky River, which required a clear span of 1,224 feet (373 m). The anchorage and stone towers were completed, and the cable wire delivered along with the material for the superstructure, when the railway company became insolvent. The bridge construction was halted. It was later completed as the first cantilever bridge in the US, with a truss for carrying the railway track.\n\nIn 1859 Roebling completed another suspension bridge at Pittsburgh. Its total length was 1,030 feet (314m), consisting of two main spans of 344 feet (105 m) each, and two side spans of 171 feet (52 m) each.\n\nThe American Civil War brought a temporary halt to Roebling's work. However, in 1863 building resumed on a bridge over the Ohio River at Cincinnati, which he had started in 1856 and halted due to lack of financing; he finished this bridge in 1867. The Cincinnati-Covington Bridge, later named the John A. Roebling Suspension Bridge in his honor, was the world's longest suspension bridge at the time it was finished.\n\nIn 1867 Roebling started design work on what is now called the Brooklyn Bridge, spanning the East River in New York. On June 28, 1869 at Fulton Ferry, while he was standing at the edge of a dock, working on fixing the location where the bridge would be built, his foot was crushed by an arriving ferry. His injured toes were amputated. He refused further medical treatment and wanted to cure his foot by \"water therapy\" (continuous pouring of water over the wound). His condition deteriorated. He died on July 22, 1869 of tetanus at the home of his son on Hicks Street, in Brooklyn Heights. It was just 24 days after the accident. Roebling is buried in the Riverview Cemetery in Trenton, New Jersey.\n\nRoebling devised \"an equilibrium strength approach, in which equilibrium is always satisfied but compatibility of deformations is not enforced.\" This was essentially an approximation method similar to the force method: First, Roebling computed the dead and live loads, then divided the load between the cables and the stays. Roebling added a large safety factor to the divided loads and then solved for the forces. This approach gave a sufficiently accurate analysis of the structure given the assumption that the structure was sufficiently ductile to handle the resulting deformation (Buonopane, 2006).\n\n\n\nRoebling was the youngest of four children. He was baptized in the Lutheran church Divi Blasii in Mühlhausen. As a young boy he played the bass clarinet and the french horn. He also exhibited great artistic talent for sketches and paintings. His father owned a small tobacco shop, but the business was insufficient to provide livelihood for all three sons. Roebling's sister Friederike Amalie married Carl August Meissner, a poor merchant in the town, and his oldest brother Herman Christian Roebling prepared to take over the tobacco shop.\n\nJohn Roebling and Johanna Herting had nine children:\n\nRoebling's son Washington Roebling and his daughter-in-law Emily Warren Roebling continued his work on the Brooklyn Bridge. His son Ferdinand expanded his wire rope business. His son Charles Roebling designed and invented a huge 80 ton wire rope machine and founded the town of Roebling, New Jersey where the John A. Roebling's Sons company steel mill was built. His grandson Washington A. Roebling II perished on the . His great-grandson Donald Roebling was a noted philanthropist and inventor who devised the amphtrack.\n\nNotes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4300069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4300069", "title": "John Aasen", "text": "John Aasen\n\nJohn Aasen (March 5, 1890 – August 1, 1938) was an American silent film actor who was one of the tallest actors in history.\n\nAasen was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota. His mother, Kristi (Danielsen) from Rollag in Numedal, was an extremely tall Norwegian woman of around 2.20 m (almost 7 ft 3 inches) in height (latest information from September 2008, sets her height to 188 cm, almost 6 ft 2 inches). It is not certain who his father was, but according to Aasen's sister Evelyn (who died in 1988), his father was Alfred Aasen. When Aasen was ten years old, he and his mother moved from Ridgeway, Iowa (where his uncle Sam/Sevre lived with his wife Cornelia) to Sheyenne, North Dakota with his two younger siblings. Aasen was a Freemason. He raised to the degree of Master Mason at Highland Park Lodge No. 382, Los Angeles on July 14, 1924.\nWhen in Sheyenne, Aasen's mother operated a restaurant. He attended school and helped out in the family business. In 1902, Aasen's mother died. He was taken into many homes and families. When a family he was staying with started to operate a hotel in Leeds, North Dakota, he moved with them there. Aasen's growth started slowly. When he was confirmed in the Lutheran faith in Grandfield Lutheran Church near Sheyenne, North Dakota, he was the shortest in his class. According to some sources, Aasen was around 2.74 m or 8 feet, 11½ inches (which, if true, would make him even taller than Robert Wadlow, the tallest verified person in history). The \"Top 10 of Everything\" 2010 edition states his height at 8 feet, 9.7 inches.\n\nAccording to the 1978 edition of \"Guinness World Records\" he was only 7 feet (213.4 cm). Just before his death, at age 46, he was medically measured at 7 feet 0.9 inches, however he had lost some height due to age and could not stand completely straight anymore. In June 2008, Loma Linda University confirmed that the skeleton they had in their collection was John Aasen.\n\nAasen worked for Midway Chemical, a company based in St. Paul, in 1917-1918. After that, he worked in various shows, including Barnum & Bailey and C.A. Wortham's World's Best Shows.\n\nThe death of giant George Auger led to Aasen's working in the film \"Why Worry?\" (1923). Later, he acted in several other films like \"Bengal Tiger\", \"Charlie Chan at the Circus\", \"Growing Pains\", \"Should Married Men Go Home?\", \"Legionnaires in Paris\", \"Two Flaming Youths\", \"The Sting of Stings\", \"Long Fliv the King\" and the Tod Browning film \"Freaks\", in a small uncredited cameo appearance.\n\nAasen died from pneumonia on August 1, 1938 at Mendocino State Hospital in Mendocino, California. His body was later shipped to a doctor in Missouri for study and dissection. The skeleton was kept by the doctor, and eventually shipped to Loma Linda, California. Aasen's cremated soft parts were given a Masonic funeral at Forest Lawn Cemetery in Glendale, California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23310116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23310116", "title": "John Franklin Gray", "text": "John Franklin Gray\n\nJohn Franklin Gray (September 23, 1804 – June 9, 1882) was an American educator and physician, a pioneer in the field of homoeopathy and one of its first practitioners in the United States. He is also recognized as an important medical reformer.\n\nJohn Franklin Gray was born on September 23, 1804, at Sherburne, New York and died on June 9, 1882, at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, in New York City. He was the fourth of five sons of John Gray, (December 15, 1769 - April 24, 1859), and the grandson of John Gray, a founder of Sherburne, and Elizabeth Skeel. Two of Dr. Gray's brothers, Dr. Alfred W. Gray (1802–1873) and Dr. Patrick Wells Gray (1806–1882), were both prominent homeopathic physicians and surgeons. Dr. Gray's father served as a captain in Col. Samuel Whiting's 4th regiment of the Connecticut Militia in the American Revolutionary War. He was appointed and served as first Judge of the Court of Common Pleas for Chenango County, New York until 1819 when the family removed to Sheridan, Chautauqua County, New York. His life was celebrated by the poet John Greenleaf Whittier, at his funeral in 1859 thus recalls him:\n\nHis mother was Diantha Burritt, (January 9, 1776 - October 14, 1846) the daughter of the Rev. Blackleach Burritt, who graduated from Yale College in 1765, and was a great-great grandson of Governor William Leete, who was the Governor of the Colony of New Haven from 1661 to 1665 and Governor of Connecticut from 1676 to 1683; and Martha Welles (1744 - April 1786) a daughter of Gideon Welles and Eunice Walker and a great-great granddaughter of Governor Thomas Welles the Fourth Colonial Governor of Connecticut. Diantha had been a school teacher in Vermont before her marriage, at Winhall, Vermont on May 26, 1793, and was a poet and woman of literary taste.\n\nHis mother was instrumental in encouraging his interest in medicine as his profession. Her favorite brother, Dr. Eli Burritt, born March 12, 1773, at Pound Ridge, Westchester County, New York and died September 1, 1823, in Troy, Rensselaer County, New York was a physician and encouraged Dr. Gray's interest in medicine as well.\n\nHe graduated from Williams College in 1800, and was licensed to practice medicine at Troy, New York, on March 29, 1802, and he quickly gained recognition for his medical skills.\n\nDr. Francis Wayland (1796–1865), fourth president of Brown University, said the following about his former teacher: \"Dr. Burritt was a man of remarkable logical powers of enthusiastic love of his profession, and of great and deserved confidence in his own judgment. He stood at the head of his profession in Troy, and in the neighboring region, and was a person of high moral character\".\n\nHe married on September 25, 1826, in New York City, Elizabeth Williams Hull, born in 1808 in New Hartford, New York and died on May 28, 1868 in New York City, and is buried in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn beside her husband.\n\nShe was the daughter of Dr. Amos Gift Hull, a prominent and eminent physician of New York City and one of the founders of the State Medical Society of New York and his third wife, Eunice Williams. She was a sister of Dr. Amos Gerald Hull (1810–1859), an 1832 graduate of Rutgers Medical College and an influential homeopathic physician who visited Samuel Hahnemann, the founder of homeopathy, in Paris, in 1836–37, of which he wrote a very interesting account of him.\n\nJohn and Elizabeth were the parents of eight children, all born in New York City: Elizabeth Williams Gray, John Hull Gray, John Franklin Gray, Jr., John Frederick Schiller Gray, Josephine Augusta Gray, Emma Geraldine Hull Gray, Mary Ludlow Gray and Edward Hull Gray.\n\nTheir daughter, Elizabeth Williams Gray, married Dr. Lewis Tillman Warner an influential and respected homeopathic physician. Their daughter, Louise Tillman Warner, married Charles Loring Brace, Jr., a graduate of Phillips Academy, Andover, Massachusetts and a graduate of Yale College class of 1876 with a degree in Civil Engineering.\n\nHe was a Mugwump in politics. He was employed as Superintendent and Engineer of Construction with the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway at Minneapolis. When his father died in 1890, he was invited by the trustees of the New York Children's Aid Society to take up as Secretary and Chief Executive Officer of that society. A son of Louise and Charles was Gerald Warner Brace, (1901–1978) was an American writer, educator, sailor and boat builder.\n\nHe was the son of Letitia Neill of Belfast, Ireland and Charles Loring Brace, Yale College 1846, who was a contributing philanthropist in the field of social reform. He is considered a father of the modern foster care movement and was most renowned for starting the Orphan Train movement of the mid-19th century, and for founding The Children's Aid Society in 1853.\n\nDr. Warner's second wife was Sarah Loring MacKaye, (1841–1876) a woman of extraordinary charm and brilliance, and a pianist of professional ability. She was the daughter of Emily Steele and Colonel James M. MacKaye, a successful attorney and an ardent abolitionist and an organizer of The Wells Fargo Express Company, and President of American Telegraph Company. Sarah was a sister of American playwright, actor, theater manager and inventor James Morrison Steele MacKaye.\n\nTheir son, John Frederick Schiller Gray, was also a physician. He was an 1851 graduate of Williams College and an 1871 graduate of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and practiced medicine with his father after graduating. He also practiced medicine in Paris, Nice and Geneva. He served in the Twentieth New York Infantry and had fought at the Battle of Antietam, He gave Walt Whitman a fearful account of the battlefield at half past 9 the night following the engagement at The Vault at Pfaff's. he later served as a major on the staff of General Edward Canby. He was a member of the Fred Gray Association.\n\nHe began the study of medicine in the academy in Hamilton, New York, (now Madison University) for two years, He first entered the office of Dr. Haven, of Hamilton, New York and he stayed there for two years. He then left for Dunkirk, New York, where he opened a private school, studying medicine all the time under Dr. Ezra Williams.\n\nIn 1824, when just 20 years old, he removed to New York City and received instruction from Drs. Valentine Mott and David Hosack (August 31, 1769 – December 22, 1835). Dr Hosack was a noted physician, botanist, and educator, who is perhaps most widely known as the doctor who attended to Alexander Hamilton after Hamilton's deadly duel with Aaron Burr. Hosack was also a founder of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.\n\nIt was a common practice in the early 19th century for students to receive a part of their education through a system of apprenticeships until medical schools were to assume a major role in education. These apprenticeships usually covered a period of three years and were regulated by local medical societies.\n\nDuring the time of his studies he was appointed assistant surgeon in the navy; and as it was necessary that he should be a graduate or licentiate in order to hold this position, he was accorded a license by the county medical society. He graduated from Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1826.\n\nImmediately after graduating and completing his residency, he opened an office on Charlton Street in New York City. In acquiring his practice he was assisted by his future father-in-law, Dr. A. G. Hull, of New York, by Dr. Hosack, and by Dr. Watts. Dr. Gray's success in obtaining patients and social patronage was very strong and rapid ; so much so, that in his first year he was enabled to get married and to support a moderate house comfortably, and in his second to sustain a doctor's horse and gig.\n\nSoon after starting in private practice he began the study of the French language, and carried it far enough to read medical authors; two years later he began the German, and kept at it till he could read it fluently and even speak it with palpable scope and accuracy of diction.\n\nSoon after, he learned of Hahnemann's medical theories through Hans B. Gram, a Danish doctor, who was born in Boston of Danish parents and was educated in Denmark. He heard Dr. Gram lecture, but was not convinced. He then reluctantly consented to let Dr. Gram treat one of his patients, whose case had resisted his own skill. Dr. Gram had remarkable success, not only with that patient but with others, and Dr. Gray was converted to homeopathy. He did not, however, believe that homeopathy and allopathic medicine to be mutually exclusive, but rather believed them to be complementary.\n\nIn 1828, Dr. Gray adopted homœopathy as the major rule in his practice and announced his intention to practice according to that system openly, and in consequence lost his profitable practice and all his professional friends. He endured many hardships and much ill-treatment for his devotion to homeopathy. Dr. Gray was the first to propose the formation of a national society of homeopathy, and in 1844 the American Institute of Homeopathy was organized.\n\nIn 1833, he commenced the practice of medicine in partnership with his brother-in-law. Dr. Amos Gerald Hull.\n\nIn 1834, he founded the New York Homœopathic Society. Its stated purpose was for \"the purpose of protecting, enriching and disseminating such of the propositions and testimonies of Homœopathia as upon mature trial they shall find to be sound and available\". The first officers of the society were: president, John F. Gray ; vice-presidents, Edward A. Strong, George Baxter ; corresponding secretary, Federal Vanderburgh ; recording secretary, Daniel Seymour ; treasurer, F. A. Lohse ; registrar, A. Gerald Hull ; librarian, F. L. Wilsey ; finance committee, J. H. Patterson, Oliver S. Strong, L. M. H. Butler, William Bock.\n\nThis society was composed of physicians and laymen. William Cullen Bryant, the poet-editor, was a member. He was an early convert to homœopathy and all his life was a strong supporter of its principles.\n\nEvery week, the Grays hosted a salon remarkable for attracting the leading artists and intellectuals of the day as well as other prominent medical men of the city who attended, and they became well known as social leaders in the city, supporting causes such as the abolition of slavery and women's suffrage. Dr. Gray befriended the poets William Cullen Bryant, John Greenleaf Whittier and Walt Whitman and was a patron of American artists including, Asher Brown Durand and Frederic Edwin Church as well as Samuel Morse, the inventor of telegraphy\n\nHe was also a well-known and prominent Spiritualist in New York as well as a frequent lecturer on the subject. He was a close friend and associate with Kate, Leah and Margaret Fox (the Fox sisters), Andrew Jackson Davis, Amy and Isaac Post and with the Davenport brothers.\n\nHe became a noted philanthropist in his later years, especially to the poor, and was consulted in various social issues.\n\nHe received the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Hamilton College in 1871. He was also a life member of the New York Chapter of The Society of the Cincinnati.\n\nHe died on June 9, 1882, at New York City. He is buried in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21483373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21483373", "title": "Jurdan Martitegi", "text": "Jurdan Martitegi\n\nJurdan Martitegi Lizaso (born May 10, 1980, in Durango, Vizcaya) is a member of the terrorist Basque nationalist and separatist group Euskadi Ta Askatasuna (ETA). He is best known as the head of the military/commando unit of the group since late 2008 until April 18, 2009, when he was arrested by French police. He is considered to be one of the most dangerous members of ETA, considered a terrorist organization by the European Union, with police describing him as \"extremely violent\".\n\nHe gained prominence in the military section of ETA by leading the 'commando Vizcaya' (Biscay Command) after the 2006 cesasfire along with Arkaitz Goikoetxea and rose to the highest level of ETA's military leadership following the December 2008 arrest of Aitzol Iriondo alias \"Gurbita\" who had replaced Miguel de Garikoitz Aspiazu Rubina alias \"Txeroki\", arrested less than a month before.\n\nBefore joining ETA, Jurdan Martitegi had a wide record of kale borroka acts. On February 12, 1998, he presented himself in front of Baltasar Garzón, after being accused of several street violence acts during 1997. He was shortly released but later accused of taking part in a molotov attack against an Ertzaintza police station in Amorebieta. In 2000 he was arrested after attacking a concessionaire in Iurreta and a bank and Guardia Civil barracks in Galdakao, in which a policeman was wounded. He was arrested again on March 5, 2001, after placing an explosive at the Durango courts and spent some time at the Alcalá Meco and Daroca prisons.\n\nMartitegi is believed to have joined ETA after he was released from prison. He left his Durango home in 2006 after he knew police were searching him. He joined the 'commando Vizcaya' after the 2006 ceasefire and carried several attacks along with Arkaitz Goikoetxea, including the bombing of Civil Guard's cuartel in Durango on August 24, 2007, a bomb attack in front of a courthouse in Sestao on December 16, 2007, a car bomb explosion outside a Guardia Civil barracks in Calahorra, Rioja on March 21, 2008 and a van bomb placed in front of a Guardia Civil barracks at Legutiano, Álava, which killed one policeman, Juan Manuel Piñuel Villalón, and injured four. He is also believed to have carried a failed attack outside Getxo courthouse on November 11, 2007. According to police he's the main suspect of killing Spanish Socialist Workers' Party councilior Isaías Carrasco on March 7, 2008, as eyewitnesses described the killer as a 'tall man', a description which fits with Martitegi's two meters height.\n\nJurdan Martitegi carried all of the attacks along with his fellow partner Arkaitz Goikoetxea, who was arrested on July 22, 2008, after Spanish police dismantled the Vizcaya cell. Martitegi was able to escape before police arrested nine other suspects.\n\nPolice reported that Martitegi and Txeroki had trained several ETA members of the Nafarroa cell in Hendaia during 2008. Four days after this cell was arrested, on October 30, ETA bombed the University of Navarra, injuring up to twenty-one persons.\n\nIn early 2009, Spanish press revealed that ETA's current top leaders Juan Cruz Maiztegui Bengoa, 63, alias \"Pastor\" and José Luis Eciolaza Galán alias \"Dienteputo\" had entrusted Martitegi to quickly reorganize the commandos and make them ready to commit 'deadly attacks'. Some days later, Spanish police confirmed that ETA had restructured its commandos and that Martitegi would be leading them along with his lieutenant \"Andoni Sarasola\" and ETA member \"Iurgi Mendinueta\". Martitegi has already asked his commandos to carry quick attacks, always with car bombs.\n\nSince his work as a military chief ETA has already carried several attacks (see List of ETA attacks in 2009), including the bombing of the Basque television in Bilbao on December 31, 2008, and a van bomb in Madrid on February 8, 2009, which led police to think that ETA has established its first cell in Madrid for about six years.\n\nIn February 2009, \"El Confidencial\" revealed that police were afraid that Martitegi would try to carry a \"very big attack\" to vindicate himself to ETA leaders. Police also warned that ETA's goal was to kill ertzainas during the Basque elections campaign.\n\nAlthough he officially controlled all of ETA's cells, Martitegi had problems moving in public due to his high stature of more than 1.90 meters, which made him easily detectable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166499", "title": "Khanty", "text": "Khanty\n\nThe Khanty (in older literature: Ostyaks) are an indigenous people calling themselves \"Khanti, Khande, Kantek\" (Khanty), living in Khanty–Mansi Autonomous Okrug, a region historically known as \"Yugra\" in Russia, together with the Mansi. In the autonomous okrug, the Khanty and Mansi languages are given co-official status with Russian. In the 2010 Census, 30,943 persons identified themselves as Khanty. Of those, 26,694 were resident in Tyumen Oblast, of which 17,128 were living in Khanty–Mansi Autonomous Okrug and 8,760—in Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug. 873 were residents of neighbouring Tomsk Oblast, and 88 lived in the Komi Republic.\n\nIn the centuries of the second millennium BC, the territories between Kama and Irtysh rivers were the home of a Proto-Uralic speaking population who had contacts with Proto-Indo-European speakers from the South. The inhabitants of these areas were of Europid stock, although the Khanty are predominantly Uraloid. This woodland population is the ancestor of the modern-day Ugrian inhabitants of Trans-Uralia. Some consider the Khanty's ancestors to be the prehistoric metalworking Andronovo Culture. Other researchers say that the Khanty people originated in the south Ural steppe and moved northwards into their current location about 500 AD. \n\nKhanty probably appear in Russian records under the name Yugra (ca. 11th century), when they had contact with Russian hunters and merchants. The name comes from Komi-Zyrian language \"jögra\" ('Khanty'). It is also possible that they were first recorded by the English King Alfred the Great (ca. 9th century), who located Fenland (wetland) to the east of the White Sea in Western Siberia. The older Russian name Ostyak is from Khanty \"as-kho\" 'person from the Ob (\"as\") River,' with -\"yak\" after other ethnic terms like \"Permyak\".\n\nSome Khanty princedoms were partially included in the Siberia Khanate from the 1440s–1570s.\n\nIn the 11th century, Yugra was actually a term for numerous tribes, each having its own centre and its own chief. Every tribe had two exogamic phratries, termed \"mon't\"' and \"por\", and all members were considered to be blood relatives. This structure was later replaced with clans, where each clan leader (\"knyazets\") negotiated with the Russian realm. They also participated in Russian campaigns, and received the right to collect \"yasaq\" (tribute) from two Khanty \"volosts\" (districts) respectively. When this structure was no longer needed, Russia deprived them of their privileges.\n\nBetween the 17th and 19th centuries, there were attempts to introduce Christianity, but the Khanty lifestyle did not undergo any real changes. In the second half of 19th century, they gradually accepted state law.\n\nDuring the Soviet period the Khanty were one of the few indigenous minorities of Siberia to be granted an autonomy in the form of an okrug (autonomous district). The establishment of autonomy has played a considerable role in consolidation of the ethnos (the Western Khants called their eastern neighbours \"Kantõk\" [the Other People]). However, in the 1930s concerted efforts were made by the Soviet state to collectivise them. The initial stages of this meant the execution of tribal chiefs who were labelled \"kulaks\" followed by the execution of shamans. The abduction by the state of the children who were sent to Russian speaking boarding schools provoked a national revolt in 1933 called the Kazym rebellion.\n\nAfter the end of the Stalin period this process was relaxed and efforts were intensified in the 1980s and '90s to protect their common territory from industrial expansion of various ministries and agencies. The autonomy has also played a major role in preserving the traditional culture and language.\n\nThe Khantys' traditional occupations were fishery, taiga hunting and reindeer herding. They lived as trappers, thus gathering was of major importance.\n\nThe Khanty are one of the indigenous minorities in Siberia with an autonomy in the form of an okrug (autonomous area).\n\nKhanty are today Orthodox Christians, mixed with traditional beliefs (shamans, reincarnation). Their historical shaman wore no special clothes except a cap. Traditional Khanty cults are closely related to nature. The Crow spring celebration is being celebrated in April, nowadays it is April 7, the same day as the Annunciation day. The Bear Celebration is being celebrated occasionally after a successful hunting of a bear. The Bear Celebration continues 5 or 6 days (the duration depends on the sex of the animal). Over 300 songs and performances occur during a Bear Celebration. The most important parts of the celebration are:\n\nThe Khanty language is a language belonging to the Ugric branch of the Uralic languages, consisting of ten dialects, divided into southern, northern and eastern subgroups, and related to Mansi and Hungarian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33885010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33885010", "title": "Lionel Barrymore on stage, screen and radio", "text": "Lionel Barrymore on stage, screen and radio\n\nLionel Barrymore (born Lionel Herbert Blythe; 1878–1954) was an American actor of stage, screen and radio. He also directed several films, wrote scripts, created etchings, sketches and composed music. He was the eldest child of the actors Maurice Barrymore and Georgie Drew Barrymore, and his two siblings were John and Ethel; these and other family members were part of an acting dynasty. Reluctant to follow his parents' career, Barrymore appeared together with his grandmother Louisa Lane Drew in a stage production of \"The Rivals\" at the age of 15. He soon found success on stage in character roles. Although he took a break from acting in 1906–09 to train in Paris as a painter, he was not successful as an artist and returned to the US and acting. He also joined his family troupe, from 1910, in their vaudeville act.\n\nBarrymore began his film career in 1911, appearing in numerous silent films, many of which have subsequently been lost. In 1912 he signed a contract with D. W. Griffith's Biograph Company and appeared as a character actor in short films before moving into feature-length productions in 1914. He began writing scripts and directing films shortly afterwards, and for the next five years he did not act on the legitimate stage. Although he had several successes on Broadway after the First World War, he encountered strongly negative criticism in a 1921 production of \"Macbeth\" and in three productions in a row in 1925. Afterwards, he never again appeared on the New York stage. In 1925 he signed a contract with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, where he became a close friend of Louis B. Mayer and for whom he made numerous films. He directed several films from 1929 to 1931 but concentrated on acting after that.\n\nBarrymore became well known in curmudgeonly roles. In 1938 he broke his hip and, aggravated by arthritis, he lived the remainder of his life in a wheelchair. Mayer made sure that roles were found or written to accommodate Barrymore, who continued to act in films until 1953. During that time he appeared as Dr. Gillespie in the popular Dr. Kildare film series with Lew Ayres in the titular role, and as Mr. Potter in \"It's a Wonderful Life\"—a role that was highly placed on the American Film Institute's list of the 100 Heroes and Villains in a film that the critic Philip French described as \"a complex inspirational work\". Beginning in the 1930s, Barrymore increasingly worked in radio, initially as Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickens's \"A Christmas Carol\", which was broadcast annually from 1934 to 1953, then in \"Mayor of the Town\" beginning in 1942, and also in a radio series spun off from the Dr. Kildare films (playing the same character that he had played in the films), among others.\n\nTwo of the films in which Barrymore appeared—\"Grand Hotel\" (1932) and \"You Can't Take It with You\" (1938)—won the Academy Award for Best Picture. He was considered for the Academy Award for Best Director for his 1929 film, \"Madame X\", and won the Best Actor award for his performance in \"A Free Soul\" (1931). He was inducted to the Hollywood Walk of Fame on February 8, 1960 and is, along with his two siblings, included in the American Theater Hall of Fame.\n\nThe list does not include the 1913 film \"The Vengeance of Galora\", which Barrymore wrote. Although some sources list him as also appearing in the film, his biographers, James Kotsilibas-Davis and Margot Peters, separately state he did not. Kotsilibas-Davis also lists \"Fighting Blood\" (1911), \"My Hero\" (1912) and \"The Musketeers of Pig Alley\" (1912) as films in which Barrymore did not appear, despite claims of other biographers to the contrary; Peters does not list the films in her filmography of the actor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3047718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3047718", "title": "List of Book of Mormon people", "text": "List of Book of Mormon people\n\nThis list is intended as a quick reference for individuals mentioned in the Book of Mormon.\n\nNames with superscripts (e.g., Nephi¹) are numbered according to the index in the LDS scripture, the Book of Mormon. Missing indices indicate people in the index who are not in the Book of Mormon; for instance, Aaron¹ is the biblical Aaron, brother of Moses.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39851747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39851747", "title": "Maher El-Beheiry", "text": "Maher El-Beheiry\n\nMaher El-Beheiry () was President of the Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt. He succeeded Farouk Sultan as president of the court on 1 July 2012. He served for a year, until 1 July 2013, when he was succeeded by Adly Mansour. For a time during the 2013 Egyptian coup d'état, some organizations reported El-Beheiry as having been selected for the position of acting President of Egypt. However, these reports were incorrect: Mansour, the current court president, was selected as acting president.\n"}
{"id": "283871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283871", "title": "Manute Bol", "text": "Manute Bol\n\nManute Bol (; October 16, 1962 – June 19, 2010) was a Sudanese-born American basketball player and political activist. Listed at tall, he was the tallest player in the history of the National Basketball Association, along with Gheorghe Mureșan. He was officially measured and listed at tall in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\". He is believed to have been born on October 16, 1962, in either Turalei or Gogrial, Sudan. He was the son of a Dinka tribal elder who gave him the name Manute, which means \"special blessing\".\n\nBol played for two colleges and four NBA teams over his career. A center, he was known as a specialist player and was considered among the best shot-blockers in the history of the sport despite other aspects of his game being considered fairly weak. Over the course of his career, Bol blocked more shots than he scored points, making him the only NBA player ever to do so. He is second all-time in NBA history in terms of average blocked shots per game and ranks 15th on the career blocks list.\n\nManute Bol was born to Madute and Okwok Bol in Turalei or Gogrial and raised near Gogrial. His date of birth was not recorded; college basketball coach Kevin Mackey listed Bol's birthday as October 16, 1962, but believed he was actually much older. Bol came from a family of extraordinarily tall men and women: \"My mother was , my father , and my sister is \", he said. \"And my great-grandfather was even taller—.\" His ethnic group, the Dinka, and the Nilotic people of which they are a part, are among the taller populations of the world. Bol's hometown, Turalei, is the origin of other exceptionally tall individuals, including basketball player Ring Ayuel. Ayuel is a refugee from the civil war which broke out soon after Bol emigrated to the U.S. and which eventually led to the destruction of most of Turalei.\n\nHe tended his family's cattle in boyhood. According to a tale he was often asked to repeat in interviews, he once killed a lion with a spear after it attacked his cattle. The lion was asleep, though he was often encouraged to embellish the story. He started playing basketball only at about age 15.\n\nComplementing his great height, Bol possessed exceptionally long limbs (inseam ) and large hands and feet (size 16 ). His arm span, at , is (as of 2013) the longest in NBA history, and his reach was . He was extremely slender, limiting his offensive capability. When he arrived in the United States, he weighed and had gained just under by the time he entered the NBA. The Washington Bullets sent Bol to strength training with University of Maryland coach Frank Costello, where he could initially lift only on 10-repetition bench press and on 10-repetition squat (his body mass index was 15.3 and he initially had a 31\" (80 cm) waist).\n\nBol started playing soccer (association football) in 1972, but abandoned the game because he was too tall. During his later teens, he started playing basketball, playing in Sudan for several years with teams in Wau and Khartoum, where he experienced prejudice from the northern Sudanese majority. While still living in Sudan, Bol apparently held an $80-a-month (1983 US$) job in the Sudanese military and played on the national team. Coach Don Feeley from Fairleigh Dickinson University saw Bol play basketball in Khartoum and convinced him to go to the United States. Bol was drafted by the San Diego Clippers in the fifth round of the 1983 NBA draft (97th overall), but the league ruled that Bol had not been eligible for the draft and declared the pick invalid. He was then invited to Cleveland by Cleveland State University head basketball coach Kevin Mackey, but he did not speak or write English very well at the time. He improved his English skills after months of classes at ELS Language Centers on the Case Western Reserve University campus, but not enough to qualify for enrollment at Cleveland State, and he never played a game there. Five years later, Cleveland State was placed on two years' probation for providing improper financial assistance to Bol and two other African players. He enrolled at the University of Bridgeport, a Division II basketball school, and played college basketball for the Purple Knights there in the 1984–1985 season. He averaged 22.5 points, 13.5 rebounds, and 7.1 blocks per game. The team, which previously drew 500–600 spectators, routinely sold out the 1,800-seat gym. This was followed by a short stint with the Rhode Island Gulls of the United States Basketball League.\n\nGoing into the 1985 NBA draft, scouts felt that Bol needed another year or two of college, but Bol opted for the draft because he felt that it was the only way to earn enough money to get his sister out of Sudan, which was in a state of political unrest at the time. In 1985, Bol was drafted as the seventh pick in the second round by the Washington Bullets (31st overall). He played in the NBA for ten seasons, from 1985 to 1995, spending parts of four seasons with the Bullets, parts of three with the Golden State Warriors, parts of four with the Philadelphia 76ers, and part of one season with the Miami Heat. In 1987, the Bullets drafted the point guard Muggsy Bogues, pairing the tallest and shortest players in the league on the court for one season.\n\nBol's first tenure with the Bullets lasted three seasons, from 1985 to 1988. In his rookie season (1985–1986), he appeared in 80 games and recorded a career-high 5.0 blocks per game. His total of 397 blocks set the NBA rookie record, and remains the second-highest single-season total in league history behind Mark Eaton's 456 in 1984–85.\n\nBol's first tenure with the Golden State Warriors lasted for two seasons, from 1988 to 1990. In his first season with Golden State, he first attempted three-point shots with regularity. In that season, he shot a career-high 91 three-pointers and made 20 of them. During this time, he may have helped to popularize the expression \"my bad\", although a 2005 suggestion that he coined the phrase has been discounted.\n\nBol's first tenure with the Philadelphia 76ers lasted for three seasons, from 1990 to 1993. Although he played in a career-high 82 games in his first season as a 76er, his production began to decline afterward (in both games played and per-game statistics). After playing in all 82 games in 1990–1991, he played in 71 games the next season, and in 58 (a career low at the time) games the following season. During his last season in Philadelphia, he had a memorable night playing against former teammate Charles Barkley and the Phoenix Suns, hitting 6 of 12 three-pointers, all in the second half in a losing effort. Fans were known to yell out \"shoot\" as soon as Bol received the ball far from the basket.\n\nBol played in eight games in the 1993–1994 season with the Miami Heat, the only team that did not use him as a starter. He scored only one two-point field goal with the team and blocked six shots in 61 total minutes.\n\nBol's second stint with the Bullets lasted only two games in 1993–1994. After this, he helped develop fellow 7 ft 7 teammate Gheorghe Mureșan.\n\nBol's second stint with the 76ers lasted for four games, near the end of the 1993–1994 season, helping to mentor teammate Shawn Bradley. In only 49 minutes, he played more aggressively than he did earlier in the season with Miami and Washington. He scored six points, grabbed six rebounds and blocked nine shots.\n\nIn the 1994–95 NBA season, Bol returned to the Warriors. He made the season-opening roster and played in what would be his final five NBA games. On a memorable night in the middle of November, Bol finally made his home debut, coming off of the bench to play 29 minutes against the Minnesota Timberwolves. Bol attempted three three-pointers in the fourth quarter, scoring all of them. Seven nights later in Charlotte, in a game that was nationally televised by TNT, he was in the starting lineup again. By this time, two weeks into the season, his career seemed rejuvenated under Warrior head coach Don Nelson; he was again a defensive force, making threes and contributing as a starter to create matchup problems. After playing only ten minutes against the Hornets on November 22, 1994, he suffered a season-ending knee injury. Before he left the game, he recorded one block and two points and attempted a three-pointer in ten minutes of play.\n\nBol was waived by Golden State on February 15, 1995.\n\nWith his great height and very long limbs, Bol was one of the league's most imposing defensive presences. Along with setting the rookie shot-blocking record in 1985–86, over the course of his career, Bol tied for the NBA record for the most blocked shots in one half (11) and in one quarter (eight, twice). On , in a game against the Orlando Magic, he blocked four consecutive shots within a single possession. Throughout his career, he blocked a shot an average of every 5.6 minutes of playing time.\n\nHowever, Bol's other basketball skills were very limited, and his rail-thin physique made it difficult for him to establish position against the league's bulkier centers and power forwards. The sight of the tall, gangly Bol spotting up for a three-pointer during blow-outs became a fan favorite. Off the court, he established a reputation as a practical joker; Charles Barkley, a frequent victim of his pranks, attested to Bol's sense of humor. Bol also developed a close friendship with Warriors teammate Chris Mullin and named one of his sons after him.\n\nOver the course of his career, Bol averaged 2.6 points, 4.2 rebounds, 0.3 assists, and 3.3 blocks per game, while only playing an average of 18.7 minutes per game. Bol finished his career with totals of 1,599 points, 2,647 rebounds, and 2,086 blocks, having appeared in 624 games over 10 seasons. As of 2010, Manute Bol remains:\n\nAfter the end of his NBA career, Bol played 22 games for the Florida Beach Dogs of the Continental Basketball Association during the 1995–1996 season. The Beach Dogs' games against the Sioux Falls Skyforce in that season were broadcast by ESPN, as the Skyforce also featured a former NBA player, Darryl Dawkins. In 1996, the Portland (Maine) Mountain Cats of the United States Basketball League announced that he would be playing with the team, and included him in the team program, but he never appeared in uniform. He then played professionally in Italy in 1997 and had a stint in Qatar in 1998 before rheumatism forced him to retire permanently.\n\nBol was very active in charitable causes throughout his career. In fact, he said he spent much of the money he made during a 10-year NBA career supporting various causes related to the war-ravaged nation of his birth, Sudan. He frequently visited Sudanese refugee camps, where he was treated like royalty. In 2001, Bol was offered a post as minister of sport by the Sudanese government. Bol, who was a Christian, refused because one of the conditions was converting to Islam. Later, Bol was hindered from leaving the country by the Sudanese government, who accused him of supporting the Dinka-led Christian rebels, the Sudan People's Liberation Army. The Sudanese government refused to grant him an exit visa unless he came back with more money. Assistance by supporters in the United States, including Connecticut Senator Joseph Lieberman, raised money to provide Bol with plane tickets to Cairo, Egypt. After 6 months of negotiations with U.S. consulate officials regarding refugee status, Bol and his family were finally able to leave Egypt and return to the United States.\n\nBol established the Ring True Foundation to continue fund-raising for Sudanese refugees. He gave most of his earnings (an estimated $3.5 million) to their cause. In 2002, Fox TV agreed to broadcast the telephone number of his Ring True Foundation in exchange for Bol's agreement to appear on their \"Celebrity Boxing\" show. After the referee goaded, \"If you guys don't box, you won't get paid\", he scored a third-round victory over former football player William \"The Refrigerator\" Perry.\n\nIn the fall of 2002, Bol signed a one-day contract with the Indianapolis Ice of the Central Hockey League. Though he could not skate, the publicity generated by his single-game appearance helped raise money to assist children in Sudan. Bol once suited up as a horse jockey for similar reasons.\n\nBol was involved in the April 2006 Sudan Freedom Walk, a three-week march from the United Nations building in New York City to the United States Capitol in Washington, DC. The event was organized by Simon Deng, a former Sudanese swimming champion (currently a lifeguard at Coney Island), who was a longtime friend of Bol's. Deng, who was a slave for three years from the age of nine, is from another tribe in Southern Sudan. His Sudan Freedom Walk is especially aimed at finding a solution to the genocide in Darfur (western Sudan), but it also seeks to raise awareness of the modern-day slavery and human-rights abuses throughout Sudan. Bol spoke in New York City at the start of the walk, and in Philadelphia at a rally organized by former hunger striker Nathan Kleinman.\n\nBol was also an advocate for reconciliation efforts, and worked to improve education in South Sudan. A Nicholas Kristoff article in \"The New York Times\" highlighted this belief and Bol's work for reconciliation and education with an organization called Sudan Sunrise. Bol first began working with Sudan Sunrise to raise awareness on issues of reconciliation in 2005. This included speaking at the United States Capitol in Washington, DC, and subsequently partnering with Sudan Sunrise to build schools across South Sudan that, in the spirit of reconciliation, would enroll students regardless of tribe or religion.\n\nDuring his time in Egypt, Bol ran a basketball school in Cairo. One of his pupils was a fellow Sudanese refugee, Los Angeles Lakers player Luol Deng, the son of a former Sudanese cabinet minister. Deng later moved to the United States to further his basketball career, continuing a close relationship with Bol.\n\nDespite initially knowing little English and an absence of awareness regarding Western culture, Bol adjusted and was widely regarded as a well-rounded personality who was inquisitive and well-read. He developed a strong friendship with Charles Barkley, who remarked, \"If everyone in the world was a Manute Bol, it's a world I'd want to live in. He's smart. He reads \"The New York Times\". He knows what's going on in a lot of subjects. He's not one of these just-basketball guys\". He spoke Dinka and Arabic before mastering English.\n\nAfter a political dispute in Sudan, Bol was admitted to the United States as a religious refugee in 2002 and settled in West Hartford, Connecticut. In July 2004, he was seriously injured in a car accident in Colchester when he was ejected from a taxi that hit a guardrail and overturned, resulting in a broken neck. The driver was under the influence, with a suspended license. Because his fortunes were mostly donated to Sudan, he was financially ruined because he had no health insurance. When he recovered from his injuries, he moved to Olathe, Kansas.\n\nBol was also the \"Brand Ambassador\" for Ethiopian Airlines and Ethiopian Airlines Journeys.\n\nOne of Bol's sons, Madut (born December 19, 1989), played college basketball at Southern University and graduated from college in 2013. Another son, Bol Bol, is a -tall 12th grader as of January 2018 and played basketball for Findlay Prep in Henderson, Nevada, after first transferring from Bishop Miege High School in Roeland Park, Kansas, to Mater Dei in Santa Ana, California. Bol Bol is considered a top recruit for the class of 2018 and committed to join the Oregon Ducks. Bol's nephew Peter Jok previously played basketball at the University of Iowa and currently plays for the Northern Arizona Suns of the NBA G League.\n\nOn June 19, 2010, Bol died from acute kidney failure and complications from Stevens–Johnson syndrome at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville, Virginia. He was survived by his 10 children, six with his first wife, Along, and four with his second wife, Ajok.\n\nAfter his death, tributes to Bol's basketball career and charitable works came from around the United States and the world. His former teams, and the NBA, issued statements in recognition of his impact on the sport of basketball and on his native Sudan. Kansas senator Sam Brownback paid tribute to Bol on the floor of the United States Senate just a few days after his death.\n\nThe memorial service for Manute Bol was held on Tuesday, June 29, 2010, at 10:00 am at the National Cathedral in Washington, DC. Bol's body lay in an eight-foot-long, specially built casket.\n\nBol was given tributes by United States Senator Sam Brownback from Kansas, former National Security Advisor Robert McFarlane, Sudan's Ambassador to the United States, Dr. Akec Khoc Acieu, Bol's uncle Bol Bol Chol, and vice president of the National Basketball Players Association Rory Sparrow.\n\nSparrow remembered Bol as \"a giant off the court\", who should be remembered for humanitarian work and his basketball career. Senator Brownback recalled, \"He literally gave his life for his people. He went over [to Sudan], he was sick. He stayed longer than he should have. He probably contracted this ailment that took his life while in Sudan, and he didn't have to do that. He was an NBA basketball player. He could have stayed here and had an easy life. I've never seen anybody use his celebrity status more nor give his life more completely to a group of people than Manute Bol did. It makes me look at efforts that I do as not enough.\"\n\nDr. Akec K.A. Khoc, Ambassador of Sudan to the U.S., said, \"Manute had a very great heart for his country and people. He did everything to support anybody in need of shoes, blankets, health service, food, and people who were struggling. He went to see them and to encourage them to continue their struggle for their rights, for their freedoms. Manute embodied everything we can think of in Sudan. Reconciling warring groups between the north and south, in Darfur he was working for reconciliation between Darfur and the south and between Darfur and the rest of Sudan. So, Manute was a voice for hope.\"\n\nSudan Sunrise founder, Tom Prichard, says Bol's work to reconcile former enemies lives on. \"Manute's legacy and vision of education and reconciliation, his determination to grow grassroots reconciliation—whether that reconciliation is expressed in a country that divides or holds together, wherever the boundary lines are drawn. Manute stood for grassroots reconciliation.\" Prichard went on to say \"There's no question Manute gave his life for his country.\"\n\nManute Bol's family patriarch, Bol Bol Chol, said, \"This man is not an ordinary man. I believe this man is a messenger like other messengers who were sent into this world—to do something in this world. He has accomplished most of his mission, and so God took him and left the rest of the work to be done by others.\"\n\nBol is buried in South Sudan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "379749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379749", "title": "Marcus Aemilius Lepidus", "text": "Marcus Aemilius Lepidus\n\nMarcus Aemilius Lepidus was a name used by several ancient Roman men of the \"gens Aemilia\". In the mid-3rd century BC, the Aemilii Lepidi split into two branches: the ancestors of the triumvir usually named the eldest son Marcus, and the younger Lucius or Quintus, while the other Lepidi more often preferred the \"praenomen\" Manius.\n\n"}
{"id": "22323348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22323348", "title": "Mary McCarthy Gomez Cueto", "text": "Mary McCarthy Gomez Cueto\n\nMary McCarthy Gomez Cueto (April 27, 1900 – April 3, 2009) was the widow of a wealthy Cuban businessman who died in poverty, unwilling to leave the island and unable to access her funds because of the US embargo on trade with Cuba. After her husband's death in 1951, and following the takeover of the Island under a Communist regime, she had become an anachronism, and ended her life in poverty, bereft of her wealth due to the U.S. embargo, and granted a tiny pension by the Castro government. A victim of political circumstance, she died there at the age of 108, and was buried next to her husband.\n\nBorn Mary Conception McCarthy in St. John's, Newfoundland, she was the daughter of a St. John's merchant of Irish descent. Her father's (Thomas McCarthy) store supplied the local fishing fleets with stores and supplies. As a young student she studied with the Sisters of Mercy, where she was quickly identified as a musical talent. As a young woman, furthering her studies in Boston, she met Pedro Gomez Cueto, a Spanish businessman. A smitten Gomez Cueto accompanied Mary back to St. John's to ask her father for permission to marry his daughter. Thomas McCarthy questioned his daughter's desire to marry the considerably older wealthy Spaniard. As a compromise he required Mary to stay at home and Gomez Cueto to go away for one year. If after that time they still wished to marry, he would give his blessing.\n\nThey married and settled in Havana, Cuba in 1923, becoming part of the wealthy enclave enjoying the life of the rich and famous.\n\nCueto was in the business of exporting leather goods to South America, but in Cuba he made his fortune making military boots for the United States in the Second World War. He built his wife a white mansion in 1936 called Villa Mary, which became their home. It was filled with Napoleon III furniture and chandeliers, and a Steinway grand piano, becoming a gathering place for visiting artists and singers, such as Frank Sinatra (who had a house behind hers) and Nat King Cole. In those days, under the rule of President Fulgencio Batista, the island was known as \"a millionaires' paradise\". They became part of local society, and helped to found the Havana Philharmonic Orchestra and an orphanage for boys. Then in 1951 her husband died, and her life changed drastically under Fidel Castro's revolution of 1959.\n\nThe US imposed a trade embargo against Cuba in 1962, causing her U.S. bank account of about 4 million dollars to be frozen. Unable to touch her money, things became worse when Castro confiscated her island holdings, and granted her a monthly pension of 200 pesos (about $15). While free to return to her native Canada, or the United States, she vowed never to leave the Island, for that was her home. Despite trips back to St. John's where parties would be held for her, she felt that the weather was too cold. And so this native Canadian continued to live in Cuba in poverty, a relic from days gone by.\n\nHer neighbors had left the island long before, and their mansions were converted into embassy residences. Peacocks continued to strut under the palm trees in her large garden. The mansion now still retains the elegance and graceful atmosphere that Mary so carefully maintained for more than seven decades.\n\nIn 2002 she broke her hip and used a wheelchair, but continued to wear a satin dress, silk blouse, chiffon scarf and lipstick to greet her visitors.\n\nWith the need for more money due to her medical problems, some measure of relief came in 2007 through a Canadian diplomat. Washington allowed her to draw from her inheritance $96 a month. \"I don't even want to buy candy,\" she declared in her distinctive Newfoundland Irish accent. Mary's caregiver was godson Elio, who lived with Mary and looked after her night and day for several decades. Sadly, each time Mary was hospitalized in the Havana medical facilities set aside for tourists, Elio had to seek the help of the Government of Canada to intervene and free up Mary's own money from a frozen U.S. account to pay the medical bills, on a case-by-case basis.\n\nReminders of her long life were on the walls where framed telegrams hung from Queen Elizabeth II and Pope John Paul II, congratulating her on her 100th birthday, and photographs on the table showed her with the conductor Sir Thomas Beecham and the guitarist Andrés Segovia.\n\nAsked whether she approved of Fidel Castro and his revolution, she did concede that poverty and illiteracy ended with his rule.\n\nShe died on Friday, April 3, 2009, just 24 days short of her 109th birthday, and was buried next to her husband in a white marble crypt in the Necropolis Cristóbal Colón, in Havana.\n\n"}
{"id": "1029409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029409", "title": "Nicolae Bălcescu", "text": "Nicolae Bălcescu\n\nNicolae Bălcescu () (29 June 1819 – 29 November 1852) was a Romanian Wallachian soldier, historian, journalist, and leader of the 1848 Wallachian Revolution.\n\nBorn in Bucharest to a family of low-ranking nobility, he used his mother's maiden name, in place of his father's name, \"Petrescu\" (his mother was originally from Bălcești, Vâlcea County now, then Argeș County). His siblings were Costache, Barbu, Sevasta and Marghioala, and his father died in 1824.\n\nAs a boy, Bălcescu studied at the Saint Sava College (from 1832), and was a passionate student of history. At the age of 19, he joined the Wallachian Army, and, in 1840, took part, alongside Eftimie Murgu and Cezar Bolliac, in Mitică Filipescu's conspiracy against Prince Alexandru II Ghica. The plot was uncovered, and Bălcescu was imprisoned in Mărgineni Monastery, where he remained for the following two years. The rough imprisonment conditions left irreversible marks on Bălcescu's health.\n\nUpon his release (after being granted a pardon by the new prince, Gheorghe Bibescu), he took part in forming a secret society drawn up from the Freemasonry and named \"Frăția\" (\"The Brotherhood\"), which he led together with Ion Ghica and Christian Tell (joined soon after by Gheorghe Magheru) in resistance against Prince Bibescu.\n\nIn order to further his history studies, Bălcescu went to France and Italy, and was, together with August Treboniu Laurian, the editor of a magazine entitled \"Magazin istoric pentru Dacia\", which was first published in 1844; that year also marked the publishing (in a different magazine) of his historical essay \"Puterea armată și arta militară de la întemeierea Prințipatului Valahiei și până acum\" (\"The Military Strength and Art of Warfare from the Creation of the Wallachian Principality to This Day\", which argued for a strong military as a guarantee of self-determination).\n\nWhile in Paris (1846), he became leader of the Romantic nationalists and liberal-radical group \"Societatea studenților români\" (the Society of Romanian Students), which reunited Wallachians and Moldavians — it also included Ion Brătianu, Alexandru C. Golescu, Ion Ionescu de la Brad, C. A. Rosetti, and Mihail Kogălniceanu.\n\n\"Magazin istoric\" went on to publish the very first collection of internal sources on the history of Wallachia and Moldavia - medieval chronicles which were afterwards published as a single volume. One of his contributions to the magazine singles him out as a radical liberal: \"Despre starea socială a muncitorilor plugari în Principatele Române în deosebite timpuri\" (\"On the Social Status of the Ploughmen of the Romanian Principalities at Various Times\") argues for a land reform, aimed at dispossessing the boyars of large plots of land (that would in turn be awarded to landless peasants); it was used as reference by Karl Marx in his succinct analysis of the events, a fact which was to earn Bălcescu credentials in Communist Romania.\n\nIn 1848, after taking part in the uprising in France, Bălcescu returned to Bucharest in order to take part in the 11 June revolution. He was, for just two days, both Minister and Secretary of State of the provisional government put in place by the revolutionaries. His advocacy of universal suffrage and land reform was not shared by many revolutionaries, and his group came into conflict with the traditional figures of authority - the Orthodox Metropolitan , although head of the revolutionary government, opposed the reforms and ultimately conspired against the Revolution itself.\n\nBălcescu was arrested on 13 September that year by the authorities of the Ottoman Empire who had put an end to the Revolution; his relationship with the Ottomans was complicated by the fact that the radicals' strict opposition to Imperial Russia had made them reliable for the Porte - the Ottomans later allowed all participants in the events to take refuge in Istanbul, and thus avoid contact with the Russian troops sent over to assist the Ottoman presence. Bălcescu initially made his way to Transylvania, but was expelled by Habsburg authorities, who considered him a threat and an agitator of Romanian sentiment in that region.\n\nIn early 1849, Bălcescu was in Istanbul when the Hungarian revolutionary armies under Józef Bem mounted a successful offensive against Habsburg forces and their Transylvanian Romanian allies. The Hungarian government of Lajos Kossuth then entered a debilitating war with Avram Iancu's Romanian guerilla force, and the former members of the Wallachian government were approached by the Polish revolutionaries in exile, such as Henryk Dembiński, to mediate a peace between the two sides (in the hope that this was to ensure a stronger resistance to Russia, and counting on the Wallachian resentment towards the Saint Petersburg government).\n\nBălcescu left for Debrecen in May, and met with Kossuth to register the latter's offer to Iancu. Marxist-inspired historiography has celebrated this as an agreement; in fact, Bălcescu's papers reveal that he viewed the peace offering as unsatisfactory for Romanians, and that Avram Iancu rejected it altogether (while agreeing to a temporary armistice). The final offer from the Budapest leadership to Bălcescu and Iancu called for the Romanians to withdraw from Transylvania, as the region was turning into a battleground between Russia and the Hungarians. When this latter conflict drew to a close, the Romanians in Transylvania, although never particularly welcoming of the Russian presence, surrendered their weapons to the reinstated Habsburgs (Iancu's loyalty to the dynasty had been the subject of a parallel dispute between him and the Wallachians).\n\nBălcescu's most important work is \"Românii supt Mihai-Voievod Viteazul\" (\"Romanians under the Rule of Michael the Brave\"), which he wrote in exile in 1849 - first published posthumously by Alexandru Odobescu in 1860. The volume is history of Michael's campaigns, as the first moment when Wallachia, Transylvania, and Moldavia, came under a single, albeit brief rule. They show Bălcescu's commitment to both radicalism and nationalism, his view oscillating between praise of Michael's gestures and criticism of his stance as a supporter of serfdom and privilege.\n\nHis final years saw an intense publishing activity, including his study, written in French, , as well as a collaboration with Adam Mickiewicz on \"La Tribune des Peuples\". Stricken by tuberculosis, impoverished, and constantly moving between various locations in France and the Italian Peninsula, he died in Palermo (in the Two Sicilies) at 33 years of age. Bălcescu never married, though he and his lover Alexandra Florescu had a son, Bonifaciu Florescu (1848–1899), who became a professor of French language and literature.\n\nIn the present his properties remain nationalized by the Romanian Government 2011, after 1945, as Bălcesti Giltofani Land in Bălcești which in the present is Nicolae Bălcescu Museum, taken from Bălcescu's family member Radu Mandrea and Aristide Razu, in 1948 by a \"donation act\" towards the Communist Government, in Romania, in Vâlcea County.\n\nAlso his earthly remains, remain in Palermo, Italy, although the Communist Party of Romania tried to bring them back to Romania in 1970, to use them for communist propaganda. The Capuchin Monks in Palermo at the Capuchin Monastery, also known as Capuchin catacombs of Palermo, denied to the Romanian Communist Delegation of Historians access to the grave.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17288171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17288171", "title": "Oswald de Kerchove de Denterghem", "text": "Oswald de Kerchove de Denterghem\n\nOswald Charles Eugène Marie Ghislain de Kerchove de Denterghem (1 April 1844 – 20 March 1906), was a Belgian liberal politician. Oswald de Kerchove was a son of the Ghentian mayor Charles de Kerchove de Denterghem.<br>\nDe Kerchove was a lawyer and became a liberal senator. He was governor in Hainaut from 1878 to 1884. <br>\nHe was an internationally recognized authority in the study of palms and orchids.\n\n"}
{"id": "3526704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3526704", "title": "Pauline Musters", "text": "Pauline Musters\n\nPauline Musters (February 26, 1876 – March 1, 1895) at tall, is recognized by the Guinness Book of Records as the shortest woman ever recorded.\n\nBorn in Ossendrecht, The Netherlands on February 26, 1876, she died in New York City at the age of 19 from a combination of pneumonia and meningitis. At the time of her death, she measured exactly 61 cm (24 in) tall.\n"}
{"id": "42833077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42833077", "title": "Reftarıdil Kadın", "text": "Reftarıdil Kadın\n\nReftarıdil Kadın (5 June 1838 – 3 March 1936) was the second wife of Sultan Murad V.\n\nReftarıdil Kadın was born in 1838 to an Abadzekh notable, Hatkoyuko Hatko. Her family used to live at the coast of Black Sea. She had two sisters Terandil Hanım and Ceylanmelek Hanım who were also given to the palace along with her and were later married to other high officials. She was a lovely lady with a pink skin, large blue eyes, straight nose, and a round face. She was also honest and goodhearted.\n\nHowever, in the later years Reftarıdil was noticed by Şehzade Murad (future Sultan Murad V) and he married her as his second wife on 4 February 1859 in the Dolmabahçe Palace. She gave birth two sons, Şehzade Mehmed Selaheddin Efendi in 1861 and Şehzade Suleiman Efendi in 1866 who died in infancy. She became İkinci Kadın (The Second Imperial Lady Consort) on 30 May 1876 when her husband ascended the throne as Sultan Murad V. After the abdication of her husband in the Çırağan Palace and his death in 1904, she along with other members of Murad's family were still imprisoned in the palace. In 1910 her son, Şehzade Selaheddin Efendi bought a mansion at Ortaköy.\n\nIn 1934 \"Reftarıdil\" took the surname \"Hatgil\". She had her niece, Cemile Dilberistan Hanımefendi, married to her son, Şehzade Selaheddin Efendi. She died in Ortaköy Palace, Istanbul on 3 March 1936.\n\n"}
{"id": "42290449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42290449", "title": "Richard White, 1st Earl of Bantry", "text": "Richard White, 1st Earl of Bantry\n\nRichard White, 1st Earl of Bantry (6 August 1767 – 2 May 1851) was an Anglo-Irish soldier and peer. \n\nWhite was born in a gentry family in Ireland. He was the son and heir of Simon White of Bantry by his wife Frances Jane Hedges, daughter of Richard Hedges of Macroom Castle. He was the grandson of Richard White, who had made an immense fortune through his work as a lawyer, and the family owned extensive estates in County Cork.\n\nIn 1797, White led forces loyal to the Kingdom of Great Britain against a French invasion force, which had landed at Bantry Bay in order to support Irish rebels in the lead up to the Irish Rebellion of 1798. For his loyalty to The Crown, he was created Baron Bantry in the Peerage of Ireland on 24 March 1797. He was also awarded a gold medal as a token of thanks from the City of Cork. He was further honoured on 29 December 1800, when he was created Viscount Bantry. Lord Bantry was awarded an earldom on 22 January 1816 when he was made Earl of Bantry and Viscount Beerhaven, both titles in the Peerage of Ireland. He lived at Bantry House, Cork. \n\nHe married Lady Margaret Anne Hare, the daughter of William Hare, 1st Earl of Listowel, on 3 November 1799. They had four children:\n"}
{"id": "44199983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44199983", "title": "S. P. Balasubrahmanyam filmography", "text": "S. P. Balasubrahmanyam filmography\n\nFilmography of Indian film singer, actor, music director and film producer S. P. Balasubrahmanyam.\n"}
{"id": "8699121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8699121", "title": "Tara Dawn Holland", "text": "Tara Dawn Holland\n\nTara Dawn Holland (born October 2, 1972) is an American beauty pageant contestant, who was Miss America 1997.\n\nIn December 2002, Holland graduated summa cum laude with her master’s degree in music education from the University of Missouri–Kansas City.\n\nAfter six years as a local literacy advocate and tutor, she took her cause to the national spotlight when she was crowned Miss America 1997. She spent the year fighting for literacy education for people of all ages and backgrounds, as well as raising funds and motivating those involved in the cause. Since her year of service, she has continued to speak for local, state, and national organizations on this critical issue.\n\nIn addition to traveling as a speaker, Holland has enjoyed many opportunities to perform musically. She has been featured as a vocal soloist with the Kansas City Symphony, the U.S. Air Force Band, and the NATO Band in Italy. She was also a featured vocalist in the nationally televised Boston Pops Fourth of July Celebration and the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. In addition, she had the honor of singing at two of President George W. Bush's inaugural events, including the Armory Ball, the largest official Inaugural Ball.\n\nHolland has appeared on various media outlets, including \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", \"Live with Regis and Kathie Lee\", \"Today\", \"Fox News Sunday\" with Tony Snow, \"Parade\", \"People\", and Focus on the Family radio show, among others. In addition to commercials, public service announcements, and her cameo role on \"The Nanny\", some of her other highlights are the 1997 Kansan of the Year, President Bush’s Daily Point of Light #723, and the 1997 Kansas Woman of Achievement.\n\nHolland and her husband, former U.S. Congressman Jon Lynn Christensen, live in Franklin, Tennessee. They have two daughters, Petra and Sela.\n\nHolland is active with youth, both in her local community and as a national sexual abstinence speaker to tens of thousands of students per year. She also sings and speaks for women’s groups, fundraisers, and churches.\n\nThe video of her receiving her crown was shown at the beginning of the 2006 film, \"Little Miss Sunshine\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32371920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32371920", "title": "Teuku Wisnu", "text": "Teuku Wisnu\n\nTeuku Wisnu (born March 4, 1985) is an Indonesian soap opera and film actor. He is 178 cm tall and weighs 68 kg and has starred in several soap operas, movies, advertisements and became a presenter. Wisnu is currently listed as a FISIP student in the Department of International Relations at Moestopo University Jakarta.\n\nWisnu began his entertainment career with a car accident. At that time, Wisnu drove a car owned by his aunt and had an accident on the highway in the city. Because he did not have the money to repair his aunt's damaged car, Wisnu, on the advice of his friend, attended the \"casting\" of an advertisement. Since then the name and figure of Teuku Wisnu began to be known to the public. He has been in some soap operas such as his role as Farel in \"Cinta Fitri\". Teuku Wisnu also had been a finalist on \"MTV VJ Hunt\" in 2006.\n\nAt the 12th Panasonic Award, held on March 27, 2009, Wisnu successfully became the winner in the category Actor Favorites.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14925026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14925026", "title": "Tom Hickey (actor)", "text": "Tom Hickey (actor)\n\nTom Hickey (born 1944) is an Irish actor who has appeared on stage and screen in a career that began in the early 1960s. He is, perhaps, best known for playing Benjy Riordan in the long-running television series, \"The Riordans\".\n\nBorn in Kildare, Hickey began his career in 1963 at Deirdre O'Connell's Stanislavski Studio in Dublin where he trained in Stanislavski's system of acting. He has said that he sees his choice of profession as a \"vocation\", having decided to become an actor when he was five or six years old.\n\nIn 1965, Hickey joined the cast of RTÉ television's new rural drama series, \"The Riordans\". He went on to play the part of Benjy Riordan in the successful serial for the next sixteen years.\n\nIn 2001, he made a rare venture into television advertising with his appearances in a series of commercials for Club Orange, a soft drink. The first of these was directed by Declan Lowney, the director of \"Father Ted\". Lowney also directed \"Moone Boy\", a Sky television series in which Hickey played Granddad Joe.\n\nOn stage, Hickey has favoured parts in the work of modern Irish playwrights such as Tom Murphy, Frank McGuinness, Bernard Farrell, and Marina Carr. In the early 1980s, the playwright Tom MacIntyre asked him to play the lead role in his adaptation of Patrick Kavanagh's poem \"The Great Hunger\". Following the success of that collaboration, he has become an acclaimed interpreter of MacIntyre's work, in such plays as \"Rise Up Lovely Sweeney\", \"The Gallant John Joe\" and \"What Happened Bridgie Cleary\".\n\nAs a character actor, Hickey has appeared in numerous films, including \"My Left Foot\", \"Inside I'm Dancing\", and \"Breakfast on Pluto\". He was also cast in two of director Lenny Abrahamson's films: \"Garage\" and \"What Richard Did\".\n\nIn 2013, Hickey was diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease. During an interview on \"The Marian Finucane Show\" on 11 April 2015, he spoke of his determination to continue acting despite the onset of this condition.\n\n"}
{"id": "26238307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26238307", "title": "UC3 Nautilus", "text": "UC3 Nautilus\n\nUC3 Nautilus is a privately built Danish midget submarine. It was built over a three-year period as an art project by Peter Madsen and a group of volunteers, and cost approximately US$200,000 to build (1.5 million DKK). The submarine was Madsen's third submarine design, and at the time of launch on 3 May 2008, was the largest privately built submarine in the world.\n\nOn 11 August 2017, \"Nautilus\" sank in the bay of Køge, in what investigators determined was a deliberate act. The following day, Danish police had the submarine salvaged and brought onto land as part of the investigation of the death of Swedish journalist Kim Wall, who was last seen alive on board. As part of the conviction of Madsen for Wall's murder, the submarine was confiscated and is awaiting destruction.\n\nOn the day of its launch on 3 May 2008, \"UC3 Nautilus\" displaced only 32 tons and was still incomplete. It was named at a well-attended ceremony on the west side of Refshaleøen and towed to the floating installation art barge \"Illutron\" (formerly M/S \"Half Machine\") in the Kongens Enghave, where further outfitting and installation of equipment took place over the next several months. By August 2008, \"Nautilus\" could sail on its own, as the main diesel engine drive train and steering was completed. On its maiden voyage, the submarine was driven by former crewmen of the now-defunct Royal Danish Navy submarine division. The objective was to sail \"Nautilus\" and evaluate her maneuverability, and the appraisal was favourable. In October 2008, Nautilus was submerged for the first time.\n\n\"Nautilus\" can be crewed by up to eight people for surface operation and four when diving. The submarine moves at five to six knots, depending on conditions and whether it was submerged. It has two tanks for fresh water and fuel. Trim is carried out normally with an electric pump, or with compressed air as fall-back if the trim-pump fails. The main ballast tanks of are filled and emptied with compressed air and can flush up to of water in/out per second. It can descend to periscope depth in approximately 20 seconds. The boat has a design crush depth of , and has dived to about .\n\nThere are 16 portholes (8 on each side, 2 oversized) for direct observation. The periscope has five video cameras, providing 360-degree panoramic vision on video screens in the forward control room. The engine room has two diesel engines, one of which is for direct propulsion. The other drives a three-phase electric generator providing power for the onboard air compressor and battery charger. There are more than a tonne of large 12-volt batteries on board, supplying the DC electric motor which can be operated alone or in tandem with the main engine on a chain-coupled drive for turning the 80 kilogram, five-bladed brass propeller. Joystick-controlled electric servos operate the rudder (aft) and hydroplanes (front).\n\n\"Nautilus\" is much smaller than the Danish Kobben-class submarine. It is about half as long and half as wide, and moves at about half the speed. In early 2009, an automatic snorkel system was installed so that the submarine can sail submerged on diesel power, and in August it sailed out from Køge submerged.\n\nThe submarine can be operated by a single person from the control room. All controls and indicators are accessible from the captain's seat for controlling buoyancy, pumps, engines, air pressure, communication, video, and other electric systems. However, as of July 2010, the engine crew still needed to perform manual changeover from surface to dive-ready configuration, setting valves correctly for snorkel and diesel engine exhaust. \"Nautilus\" can function on her diesel engine for up to eight minutes underwater without her snorkel. The engine requires a steady supply of air to operate, unlike the electric motor, and using it while submerged drops the air pressure to the equivalent of above sea level, as the engine ingests air from the crew compartment unless the snorkel is used.\n\nOn a 2009 trip around Refshaleøen, \"Nautilus\" was visited by a group of submarine fans from Subsim. Video game developers from Ubisoft were also on board to find inspiration for their submarine game, \"Silent Hunter 5.\"\n\n\"Nautilus\" was used by her builders and various others for recreation and expeditions. One such expedition was the attempted launch of the rocket and spacecraft HEAT 1X Tycho Brahe, built by Madsen's non-profit organization Copenhagen Suborbitals. On Tuesday 31 August 2010, the submarine pushed the launch platform \"Sputnik\", carrying the craft from Copenhagen towards the launch site near Nexø, Bornholm.\n\nIn January 2011, \"Nautilus\" returned to Refshaleøen to be taken on shore for upgrades, then expected to last several months. On 28 April 2017, \"Nautilus\" was launched again following repairs and upgrades.\n\nOn 11 August 2017, \"Nautilus\" was scheduled to sail from Copenhagen to appear in the afternoon at an exhibit on Bornholm, but Madsen sent a text notifying the crew that the trip had been cancelled. \"Nautilus\" was reported missing early the following morning. Danish police visited a crew member to establish who was on board, and a large search operation was launched using helicopters and ships in the port of Øresund, just outside the harbour of Copenhagen.\n\n\"Nautilus\" left Refshaleøen around 19:00 with Madsen and Swedish journalist Kim Wall aboard. At 11:00, it sank and Madsen was rescued by a private boat. Danish police charged him with murder, suspecting him of scuttling \"Nautilus\" to destroy evidence. The following day, Danish police had the submarine salvaged, brought onto land and began processing it for evidence. Madsen was convicted of Wall's murder in April 2018. As part of the conviction, the ownership of the submarine and all its content was transferred to the Danish State. It will be destroyed by authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "103020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103020", "title": "William Hogarth", "text": "William Hogarth\n\nWilliam Hogarth FRSA (; 10 November 1697 – 26 October 1764) was an English painter, printmaker, pictorial satirist, social critic, and editorial cartoonist. His work ranged from realistic portraiture to comic strip-like series of pictures called \"modern moral subjects\", perhaps best known being his moral series \"A Harlot's Progress\", \"A Rake's Progress\" and \"Marriage A-la-Mode\". Knowledge of his work is so pervasive that satirical political illustrations in this style are often referred to as \"Hogarthian\".\n\nHogarth was born in London to a lower middle-class family. In his youth he took up an apprenticeship where he specialised in engraving. His father underwent periods of mixed fortune, and was at one time imprisoned in lieu of outstanding debts; an event that is thought to have informed William's paintings and prints with a hard edge.\n\nInfluenced by French and Italian painting and engraving, Hogarth's works are mostly satirical caricatures, sometimes bawdily sexual, mostly of the first rank of realistic portraiture. They became widely popular and mass-produced via prints in his lifetime, and he was by far the most significant English artist of his generation.\n\nWilliam Hogarth was born at Bartholomew Close in London to Richard Hogarth, a poor Latin school teacher and textbook writer, and Anne Gibbons. In his youth he was apprenticed to the engraver Ellis Gamble in Leicester Fields, where he learned to engrave trade cards and similar products.\n\nYoung Hogarth also took a lively interest in the street life of the metropolis and the London fairs, and amused himself by sketching the characters he saw. Around the same time, his father, who had opened an unsuccessful Latin-speaking coffee house at St John's Gate, was imprisoned for debt in Fleet Prison for five years. Hogarth never spoke of his father's imprisonment.\n\nHogarth became a member of the Rose and Crown Club, with Peter Tillemans, George Vertue, Michael Dahl, and other artists and connoisseurs.\n\nBy April 1720, Hogarth was an engraver in his own right, at first engraving coats of arms, shop bills, and designing plates for booksellers.\n\nIn 1727, he was hired by Joshua Morris, a tapestry worker, to prepare a design for the \"Element of Earth\". Morris heard that he was \"an engraver, and no painter\", and consequently declined the work when completed. Hogarth accordingly sued him for the money in the Westminster Court, where the case was decided in his favour on 28 May 1728. In 1757 he was appointed Serjeant Painter to the King.\n\nEarly satirical works included an \"Emblematical Print on the South Sea Scheme\" (c.1721, published 1724), about the disastrous stock market crash of 1720 known as the South Sea Bubble, in which many English people lost a great deal of money. In the bottom left corner, he shows Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish figures gambling, while in the middle there is a huge machine, like a merry-go-round, which people are boarding. At the top is a goat, written below which is \"Who'l Ride\". The people are scattered around the picture with a sense of disorder, while the progress of the well dressed people towards the ride in the middle shows the foolishness of the crowd in buying stock in the South Sea Company, which spent more time issuing stock than anything else.\n\nOther early works include \"The Lottery\" (1724); \"The Mystery of Masonry brought to Light by the Gormagons\" (1724); \"A Just View of the British Stage\" (1724); some book illustrations; and the small print \"Masquerades and Operas\" (1724). The latter is a satire on contemporary follies, such as the masquerades of the Swiss impresario John James Heidegger, the popular Italian opera singers, John Rich's pantomimes at Lincoln's Inn Fields, and the exaggerated popularity of Lord Burlington's protégé, the architect and painter William Kent. He continued that theme in 1727, with the \"Large Masquerade Ticket\". In 1726 Hogarth prepared twelve large engravings for Samuel Butler's \"Hudibras\". \n\nIn the following years he turned his attention to the production of small \"conversation pieces\" (i.e., groups in oil of full-length portraits from high). Among his efforts in oil between 1728 and 1732 were \"The Fountaine Family\" (c.1730), \"The Assembly at Wanstead House\", \"The House of Commons examining Bambridge\", and several pictures of the chief actors in John Gay's popular \"The Beggar's Opera\". One of his real low-life and real-life subjects was Sarah Malcolm whom he sketched two days before her execution.\n\nOne of Hogarth's masterpieces of this period is the depiction of an amateur performance by children of John Dryden's \"The Indian Emperor, or The Conquest of Mexico\" (1732–1735) at the home of John Conduitt, master of the mint, in St George's Street, Hanover Square.\n\nHogarth's other works in the 1730s include \"A Midnight Modern Conversation\" (1733), \"Southwark Fair\" (1733), \"The Sleeping Congregation\" (1736), \"Before\" and \"After\" (1736), \"Scholars at a Lecture\" (1736), \"The Company of Undertakers (Consultation of Quacks)\" (1736), \"The Distrest Poet\" (1736), \"The Four Times of the Day\" (1738), and \"Strolling Actresses Dressing in a Barn\" (1738). He might also have printed \"Burlington Gate\" (1731), evoked by Alexander Pope's Epistle to Lord Burlington, and defending Lord Chandos, who is therein satirized. This print gave great offence, and was suppressed. However, modern authorities such as Ronald Paulson no longer attribute it to Hogarth.\n\nIn 1731 Hogarth completed the earliest of his series of moral works, a body of work that led to significant recognition. The collection of six scenes was entitled \"A Harlot's Progress\" and appeared first as paintings (now lost) before being published as engravings. \"A Harlot's Progress\" depicts the fate of a country girl who begins prostituting – the six scenes are chronological, starting with a meeting with a bawd and ending with a funeral ceremony that follows the character's death from venereal disease.\n\nThe inaugural series was an immediate success and was followed in 1733–1735 by the sequel \"A Rake's Progress\". The second instalment consisted of eight pictures that depicted the reckless life of Tom Rakewell, the son of a rich merchant, who spends all of his money on luxurious living, services from prostitutes, and gambling – the character's life ultimately ends in Bethlem Royal Hospital. The original paintings of \"A Harlot's Progress\" were destroyed in the fire at Fonthill House in 1755; the oil paintings of \"A Rake's Progress\" (1733–34) are displayed in the gallery room at Sir John Soane's Museum, London, UK.\n\nWhen the success of \"A Harlot's Progress\" and \"A Rake's Progress\" resulted in numerous pirated reproductions by unscrupulous printsellers, Hogarth lobbied in parliament for greater legal control over the reproduction of his and other artists' work. The result was the Engravers’ Copyright Act (known as ‘Hogarth's Act’), which became law on 25 June 1735 and was the first copyright law to deal with visual works as well as the first to recognize the authorial rights of an individual artist.\n\nIn 1743–1745, Hogarth painted the six pictures of \"Marriage à-la-mode\" (National Gallery, London), a pointed skewering of upper-class 18th-century society. This moralistic warning shows the miserable tragedy of an ill-considered marriage for money. This is regarded by many as his finest project and may be among his best-planned story serials.\n\nMarital ethics were the topic of much debate in 18th-century Britain. The many marriages of convenience and their attendant unhappiness came in for particular criticism, with a variety of authors taking the view that love was a much sounder basis for marriage. Hogarth here painted a satire – a genre that by definition has a moral point to convey – of a conventional marriage within the English upper class. All the paintings were engraved and the series achieved wide circulation in print form. The series, which is set in a Classical interior, shows the story of the fashionable marriage of Viscount Squanderfield, the son of bankrupt Earl Squander, to the daughter of a wealthy but miserly city merchant, starting with the signing of a marriage contract at the Earl's mansion and ending with the murder of the son by his wife's lover and the suicide of the daughter after her lover is hanged at Tyburn for murdering her husband.\n\nWilliam Makepeace Thackeray wrote: This famous set of pictures contains the most important and highly wrought of the Hogarth comedies. The care and method with which the moral grounds of these pictures are laid is as remarkable as the wit and skill of the observing and dexterous artist. He has to describe the negotiations for a marriage pending between the daughter of a rich citizen Alderman and young Lord Viscount Squanderfield, the dissipated son of a gouty old Earl ... The dismal end is known. My lord draws upon the counselor, who kills him, and is apprehended while endeavouring to escape. My lady goes back perforce to the Alderman of the City, and faints upon reading Counsellor Silvertongue's dying speech at Tyburn (place of execution in old London), where the counselor has been 'executed for sending his lordship out of the world. Moral: don’t listen to evil silver-tongued counselors; don't marry a man for his rank, or a woman for her money; don't frequent foolish auctions and masquerade balls unknown to your husband; don't have wicked companions abroad and neglect your wife, otherwise you will be run through the body, and ruin will ensue, and disgrace, and Tyburn.\n\nIn the twelve prints of \"Industry and Idleness\" (1747) Hogarth shows the progression in the lives of two apprentices, one of whom is dedicated and hard working, while the other, who is idle, commits crime and is eventually executed. This shows the work ethic of Protestant England, where those who worked hard were rewarded, such as the industrious apprentice who becomes Sheriff (plate 8), Alderman (plate 10), and finally the Lord Mayor of London in the last plate in the series. The idle apprentice, who begins \"at play in the church yard\" (plate 3), holes up \"in a Garrett with a Common Prostitute\" after turning highwayman (plate 7) and \"executed at Tyburn\" (plate 11). The idle apprentice is sent to the gallows by the industrious apprentice himself. For each plate, there is at least one passage from the Bible at the bottom, most from the Book of Proverbs, such as for the first plate of \"Industry and Idleness, shown here, \"Proverbs Ch:10 Ver:4 The hand of the diligent maketh rich.\"\n\nLater prints of significance include his pictorial warning of the consequences of alcoholism in \"Beer Street\" and \"Gin Lane\" (1751). Hogarth engraved \"Beer Street\" to show a happy city drinking the 'good' beverage, English beer, in contrast to \"Gin Lane\", in which the effects of drinking gin are shown – as a more potent liquor, gin caused more problems for society. People are shown as healthy, happy and prosperous in \"Beer Street\", while in \"Gin Lane\" they are scrawny, lazy and careless. The woman at the front of \"Gin Lane\", who lets her baby fall to its death, echoes the tale of Judith Dufour, who strangled her baby so she could sell its clothes for gin money. The prints were published in support of the Gin Act 1751.\n\nHogarth's friend, the magistrate Henry Fielding, may have enlisted Hogarth to help with propaganda for the Gin Act: \"Beer Street\" and \"Gin Lane\" were issued shortly after his work \"An Enquiry into the Causes of the Late Increase of Robbers, and Related Writings\", and addressed the same issues.\n\nOther prints were his outcry against inhumanity in \"The Four Stages of Cruelty\" (published 21 February 1751), in which Hogarth depicts the cruel treatment of animals which he saw around him and suggests what will happen to people who carry on in this manner. In the first picture there are scenes of torture of dogs, cats and other animals. The second shows one of the characters from the first painting, Tom Nero, has now become a coach driver, and his cruelty to his horse has caused it to break its leg. In the third painting Tom is shown as a murderer, with the woman he killed lying on the ground, while in the fourth, titled \"Reward of Cruelty\", the murderer is shown being dissected by scientists after his execution. The method of execution, and the dissection, reflect the 1752 Act of Parliament allowing for the dissection of executed criminals who had been convicted for murder.\n\nHogarth was also a popular portrait painter. In 1745 he painted actor David Garrick as Richard III, for which he was paid £200, \"which was more\", he wrote, \"than any English artist ever received for a single portrait.\" In 1746 a sketch of Simon Fraser, 11th Lord Lovat, afterwards beheaded on Tower Hill, had an exceptional success. In 1740 he created a truthful, vivid full-length portrait of his friend, the philanthropic Captain Coram for the Thomas Coram Foundation for Children, now in the Foundling Museum, and his unfinished oil sketch of a young fishwoman, entitled \"The Shrimp Girl\" (National Gallery, London), may be called masterpieces of British painting. There are also portraits of his wife and his two sisters, and of many other people, among them Bishop Hoadly and Bishop Herring.\n\nFor a long period of his life, Hogarth tried to achieve the status of history painter, but had no great success in this field.\n\nExamples of his history pictures are \"The Pool of Bethesda\" and \"The Good Samaritan\", executed in 1736–1737 for St Bartholomew's Hospital; \"Moses brought before Pharaoh's Daughter\", painted for the Foundling Hospital (1747, formerly at the Thomas Coram Foundation for Children, now in the Foundling Museum); \"Paul before Felix\" (1748) at Lincoln's Inn; and his altarpiece for St. Mary Redcliffe, Bristol (1755–56).\n\n\"The Gate of Calais\" (1748; now in Tate Britain) was produced soon after his return from a visit to France. Horace Walpole wrote that Hogarth had run a great risk to go there since the peace of Aix-la-Chapelle: he went to France, and was so imprudent as to be taking a sketch of the drawbridge at Calais. He was seized and carried to the governor, where he was forced to prove his vocation by producing several caricatures of the French; particularly a scene of the shore, with an immense piece of beef landing for the \"Lion d'argent\", the English inn at Calais, and several hungry friars following it. They were much diverted with his drawings, and dismissed him.\nBack home, he immediately executed a painting of the subject in which he unkindly represented his enemies, the Frenchmen, as cringing, emaciated and superstitious people, while an enormous sirloin of beef arrives, destined for the English inn as a symbol of British prosperity and superiority. He claimed to have painted himself into the picture in the left corner sketching the gate, with a \"soldier's hand upon my shoulder\", running him in.\n\nNotable Hogarth engravings in the 1740s include \"The Enraged Musician\" (1741), the six prints of \"Marriage à-la-mode\" (1745; executed by French artists under Hogarth's inspection), and \"The Stage Coach or The Country Inn Yard\" (1747).\n\nIn 1745 Hogarth painted a self-portrait with his pug dog Trump (now also in Tate Britain), which shows him as a learned artist supported by volumes of Shakespeare, Milton and Swift. In 1749, he represented the somewhat disorderly English troops on their \"March of the Guards to Finchley\" (formerly located in Thomas Coram Foundation for Children, now Foundling Museum).\n\nOthers works included his ingenious \"Satire on False Perspective\" (1754); his satire on canvassing in his \"Election\" series (1755–1758; now in Sir John Soane's Museum); his ridicule of the English passion for cockfighting in \"The Cockpit\" (1759); his attack on Methodism in \"Credulity, Superstition, and Fanaticism\" (1762); his political anti-war satire in \"The Times\", plate I (1762); and his pessimistic view of all things in \"Tailpiece, or The Bathos\" (1764).\n\nHogarth wrote and published his ideas of artistic design in his book \"The Analysis of Beauty\" (1753). In it, he professes to define the principles of beauty and grace which he, a real child of Rococo, saw realized in serpentine lines (the Line of Beauty). By some of Hogarth's adherents, the book was praised as a fine deliverance upon aesthetics; by his enemies and rivals, its obscurities and minor errors were made the subject of endless ridicule and caricature.\n\nHogarth lived in an age when artwork became increasingly commercialized, being viewed in shop windows, taverns, and public buildings, and sold in printshops. Old hierarchies broke down, and new forms began to flourish: the ballad opera, the bourgeois tragedy, and especially, a new form of fiction called the novel with which authors such as Henry Fielding had great success. Therefore, by that time, Hogarth hit on a new idea: \"painting and engraving modern moral subjects ... to treat my subjects as a dramatic writer; my picture was my stage\", as he himself remarked in his manuscript notes.\n\nHe drew from the highly moralizing Protestant tradition of Dutch genre painting, and the very vigorous satirical traditions of the English broadsheet and other types of popular print. In England the fine arts had little comedy in them before Hogarth. His prints were expensive, and remained so until early 19th-century reprints brought them to a wider audience.\n\nWhen analysing the work of the artist as a whole, Ronald Paulson says, \"In \"A Harlot's Progress\", every single plate but one is based on Dürer's images of the story of the Virgin and the story of the Passion.\" In other works, he parodies Leonardo da Vinci's Last Supper. According to Paulson, Hogarth is subverting the religious establishment and the orthodox belief in an immanent God who intervenes in the lives of people and produces miracles. Indeed, Hogarth was a Deist, a believer in a God who created the universe but takes no direct hand in the lives of his creations. Thus, as a \"comic history painter\", he often poked fun at the old-fashioned, \"beaten\" subjects of religious art in his paintings and prints. Hogarth also rejected Lord Shaftesbury's then-current ideal of the classical Greek male in favour of the living, breathing female. He said, \"Who but a bigot, even to the antiques, will say that he has not seen faces and necks, hands and arms in living women, that even the Grecian Venus doth but coarsely imitate.\"\n\nOn 23 March 1729 Hogarth married Jane Thornhill, daughter of artist Sir James Thornhill.\n\nHogarth was initiated as a Freemason before 1728 in the Lodge at the Hand and Apple Tree Tavern, Little Queen Street, and later belonged to the Carrier Stone Lodge and the Grand Stewards' Lodge; the latter still possesses the 'Hogarth Jewel' which Hogarth designed for the Lodge's Master to wear. Today the original is in storage and a replica is worn by the Master of the Lodge. Freemasonry was a theme in some of Hogarth's work, most notably 'Night', the fourth in the quartet of paintings (later released as engravings) collectively entitled the \"Four Times of the Day\".\n\nHis main home was in Leicester Square (then known as Leicester Fields), but he bought a country retreat in Chiswick in 1749, the house now known as Hogarth's House and preserved as a museum, and spent time there for the rest of his life.\nThe Hogarths had no children, although they fostered foundling children. He was a founding Governor of the Foundling Hospital.\n\nAmong his friends and acquaintances were many English artists and satirists of the period, such as Francis Hayman, Henry Fielding, and Laurence Sterne.\n\nHogarth died in London on 26 October 1764 and was buried at St. Nicholas Church, Chiswick, London. His friend, actor David Garrick, composed the following inscription for his tombstone:\n\nHogarth's works were a direct influence on John Collier, who was known as the \"Lancashire Hogarth\". The spread of Hogarth's prints throughout Europe, together with the depiction of popular scenes from his prints in faked Hogarth prints, influenced Continental book illustration through the 18th and early 19th centuries, especially in Germany and France. He also influenced many caricaturists of the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries. Hogarth's influence lives on today as artists continue to draw inspiration from his work.\n\nHogarth's paintings and prints have provided the subject matter for several other works. For example, Gavin Gordon's 1935 ballet \"The Rake's Progress\", to choreography by Ninette de Valois, was based directly on Hogarth's series of paintings of that title. Igor Stravinsky's 1951 opera \"The Rake's Progress\", with libretto by W. H. Auden, was less literally inspired by the same series. Hogarth's engravings also inspired the BBC radio play \"The Midnight House\" by Jonathan Hall, based on the M. R. James ghost story \"The Mezzotint\" and first broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in 2006.\n\nRussell Banks' short story \"Indisposed\" is a fictional account of Hogarth's infidelity as told from the viewpoint of his wife, Jane. Hogarth was the lead character in Nick Dear's play \"The Art of Success\", whilst he is played by Toby Jones in the 2006 television film \"A Harlot's Progress\".\n\nHogarth's House in Chiswick, west London, is now a museum; it abuts one of London's best known road junctions – the Hogarth Roundabout. In 2014 both Hogarth's House and the Foundling Museum held special exhibitions to mark the 250th anniversary of his death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14298815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14298815", "title": "Wogdon &amp; Barton", "text": "Wogdon &amp; Barton\n\nWogdon & Barton (founded by Robert Wogdon) was an 18th-century firm of gunsmiths based in London, England. Robert Wogdon produced flintlock firearms from the 1760s, and was particularly well known for his high quality duelling pistols. The name Wogdon became synonymous with dueling, to the extent that duels in England were sometimes referred to as \"a Wogdon affair\". Wogdon had apprenticed to the Irish gunmaker Edward Norton in Lincolnshire. Wogdon formed a partnership in 1794 with John Barton, after which their pistols were signed Wogdon and Barton. Wogdon retired in 1803 and died in 1813.\n\nWogdon made the pistols used in the infamous Burr-Hamilton duel, which were later claimed to have concealed \"hair triggers\" (also known as set triggers). These gave the person using them an advantage over their opponent by reducing the amount of finger pressure required to fire the pistol, which greatly increased accuracy of the shot. However, for at least twenty years before the Burr-Hamilton duel, English duelling pistols by all the top makers had been customarily fitted with set triggers. Wogdon's duelling pistols were fitted with set triggers as a standard feature, so they cannot be regarded as \"secret\" devices that other duellists of the era would be completely unaware of.\n\nRobert Wogdon (January 1734 - 28 March 1813) died aged 79 and was buried with his wife Jane (died 15 February 1805, aged 69) in the chancel of St Bartholomew's Church, located on the outskirts of Buntingford, Hertfordshire.\n\n"}
