{"id": "226386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226386", "title": "1633 in literature", "text": "1633 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1633.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225675", "title": "1733 in literature", "text": "1733 in literature\n\nThis article is a summary of the major literary events and publications of 1733.\n\n\nas spleen, vapours, lowness of spirits, hypochondriacal, and hysterical distempers, &c\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35281380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35281380", "title": "Acoustic jar", "text": "Acoustic jar\n\nAcoustic jars are ceramic vessels found set into the walls, and sometimes into the sides of cavities beneath the floors, of medieval churches. They are believed to have been intended to improve the sound of singing, and to have been inspired by the theories of Vitruvius .\n\nTuned bronze vases set in niches were used to modify the acoustics in Greek and Roman theatres. Their use is described by Vitruvius. No original examples survive.\n\nIn the Middle Ages the idea of the acoustic vessel re-emerged. Examples have been found in around 200 churches, half of them in France. They vary greatly in shape and positioning, but, unlike those described by Vitruvius they are ceramic, and are found enclosed within the fabric of building. The function of the jars was established with the discovery of a reference in the \"Chronicle of the Celestins of Metz\". The chronicler recorded that, in 1432: on the vigil of the Assumption, after brother Odo le Roy, the prior, had returned from the before-mentioned general chapter, it was ordered that pots should be put into the choir of the church of this place, he stating that he had seen such in a church elsewhere thinking that they made the singing better, and resound more, they were put up there in one day, by taking as many workmen as were necessary.\nModern experiments have indicated that their effect would have been to absorb the resonance of certain frequencies, rather than to amplify sound.\n\nThey use of the jars was said to be common in Brittany, and around Clisson, in the Loire Inferieure. In the Clisson area, they were usually found in horizontal rows at a height of about three metres above floor level. In 1859 a correspondent to \"Archaeologia Cambrensis \" reported that at Pallet there was \"a \"modern\" chapel, with earthenware vessels inserted in the walls of the choir, expressly for acoustic purposes\". In England, a set of eleven jars survives high on the chancel walls of St Andrews church at Lyddington, Rutland. \n\nAt St Peter Mancroft in Norwich two L-shaped trenches accommodating a number of acoustic jars were discovered beneath the wooden floor on which the choir stalls had previously stood. They had rubble walls and concrete bottoms, and the surfaces were rendered over. Earthenware jars were built into the walls at intervals of about three feet, with the mouths facing into the trench. The jars were about 9 ½ inches long, and 8 inches across at their widest, narrowing to 6 inches at the mouth. A similar discovery was made at St Peter Parmentergate, Norwich in the same city. At Fountains Abbey, in Yorkshire several earthenware vessels were discovered mortared into the base of the choir screen, their necks protruding through the stonework.\n\nThe effectiveness of the medieval jars has sometimes been doubted. The Chronicler of Metz, in the only medieval source for the purpose of the jars, mocks the prior for believing that they might have improved the sound of the choir, and the archaeologist Ralph Merrifield suggested that their use might have owed more to a tradition of votive deposits than to the theories of Vitruvius.\n\nIn 2011, at The Acoustics of Ancient Theatres conference, held in Patra, Greece, P. Karampatzakis and V. Zafranas presented evidence that Vitruvius' theory was in fact correct, and that the reconstruction of an ancient acoustic vase is possible.\n"}
{"id": "24208696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24208696", "title": "AeDES (engineering)", "text": "AeDES (engineering)\n\nAeDES (Agibilità e Danno nell'Emergenza Sismica) is a printed Rapid Post-Earthquake Damage Evaluation form, from GDNT (Italian national seismic protection group). It is used by Italian qualified civil engineers to assess the structural damages of buildings after an earthquake.\nThe AeDES Form is used from the civil protection technical staff since June 1998 to survey damages in the after-shock. The form has 9 sections. This tool allows for the definition of the conformity or non-conformity of a building. \nThe form is scanned and digitized for further evaluations. Information about position of the building, classification, material, structural typology, damage of the current event and previous damages are object of this form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "82482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82482", "title": "Ariadne", "text": "Ariadne\n\nAriadne (; ; ), in Greek mythology, was a Cretan princess. She is mostly associated with mazes and labyrinths because of her involvement in the myths of the Minotaur and Theseus.\n\nAriadne was the daughter of Minos—the King of Crete and a son of Zeus—and Pasiphaë—Minos' queen and a daughter of Helios. Others called her mother Crete, daughter of Asterius, husband-king of Europa. Ariadne was the sister of Acacallis, Androgeus, Deucalion, Phaedra, Glaucus, Xenodice and Catreus.\n\nMinos put Ariadne in charge of the labyrinth where sacrifices were made as part of reparations (either to Poseidon or to Athena, depending on the version of the myth); later, she helped Theseus overcome the Minotaur and save the potential sacrificial victims. In other stories, she became the bride of the god Dionysus, with the question of her being mortal or a goddess varying in those accounts.\n\nSince ancient Greek myths are passed down through oral tradition, many variations of this and other myths exist. According to an Athenian version of the legend, Minos attacked Athens after his son was killed there. The Athenians asked for terms, and were required to sacrifice seven young men and seven maidens to the Minotaur every seven or nine years. One year, the sacrificial party included Theseus, the son of King Aegeus, who volunteered to come and kill the Minotaur. Ariadne fell in love at first sight, and helped him by giving him a sword and a ball of thread (μίτο της Αριάδνης 'Ariadne's thread'), so that he could find his way out of the Minotaur's labyrinth.\n\nShe eloped with Theseus after he achieved his goal, but according to Homer \"he had no joy of her, for ere that, Artemis slew her in seagirt Dia because of the witness of Dionysus\" (\"Odyssey\" XI, 321-5). Most accounts claim that Ariadne was abandoned by Theseus, but in some versions she is mortally wounded by Perseus . Homer does not expand on the nature of Dionysus's accusation, but the \"Oxford Classical Dictionary\" speculates that she was already married to Dionysus when she ran away with Theseus.\n\nIn Hesiod and most other accounts, Theseus abandoned Ariadne sleeping on Naxos, and Dionysus rediscovered and wedded her. In a few versions of the myth, Dionysus appeared to Theseus as they sailed away from Crete, saying that he had chosen Ariadne as his wife and demanding that Theseus leave her on Naxos for him; this has the effect of absolving the Athenian culture-hero of desertion. The vase-painters of Athens often showed Athena leading Theseus from the sleeping Ariadne to his ship.\n\nWith Dionysus, she was the mother of Oenopion, the personification of wine, Staphylus (related to grapes), Thoas, Peparethus, Phanus, Eurymedon, Enyeus, Ceramus, Maron, Euanthes, Latramys and Tauropolis. Her wedding diadem was set in the heavens as the constellation Corona Borealis.\n\nAriadne remained faithful to Dionysus but was later killed by Perseus at Argos. In other myths she hanged herself from a tree, like Erigone and the hanging Artemis, a Mesopotamian theme. Some scholars have posited, due to her thread-spinning and winding associations, that she was a weaving goddess, like Arachne, supporting this theory with the mytheme of the Hanged Nymph (see weaving in mythology). Dionysus descended into Hades and brought her and his mother Semele back. They then joined the gods in Olympus.\n\nKarl Kerenyi and Robert Graves theorize that Ariadne (whose name they derive from Hesychius's listing of Άδνον, a Cretan-Greek form for \"arihagne\", \"utterly pure\") was a Great Goddess of Crete, \"the first divine personage of Greek mythology to be immediately recognized in Crete\", once archaeology had begun. Kerenyi observes that her name is merely an epithet and claims that she was originally the \"Mistress of the Labyrinth\", both a winding dance-ground and in the Greek view a prison with the dreaded Minotaur at its centre. Kerenyi notes a Linear B inscription from Knossos, \"to all the gods, honey... to the mistress of the labyrinth honey\" in equal amounts, suggesting to him that the Mistress of the Labyrinth was a Great Goddess in her own right. Professor Barry Powell has suggested she was Minoan Crete's Snake Goddess.\n\nPlutarch, in his \"vita\" of Theseus, which treats him as a historical individual, reports that in the Naxos of his day, an earthly Ariadne was separate from a celestial one:\nSome of the Naxians also have a story of their own, that there were two Minoses and two Ariadnes, one of whom, they say, was married to Dionysos in Naxos and bore him Staphylos and his brother, and the other, of a later time, having been carried off by Theseus and then abandoned by him, came to Naxos, accompanied by a nurse named Korkyne, whose tomb they show; and that this Ariadne also died there.\n\nIn a kylix by the painter Aison (c. 425 – c. 410 BCE) Theseus drags the Minotaur from a temple-like labyrinth, but the goddess who attends him, in this Attic representation, is Athena.\n\nAn ancient cult of Aphrodite-Ariadne was observed at Amathus, Cyprus, according to the obscure Hellenistic mythographer Paeon of Amathus; Paeon's works are lost, but his narrative is among the sources cited by Plutarch in his \"vita\" of Theseus (20.3-.5). According to the myth that was current at Amathus, the second most important Cypriote cult centre of Aphrodite, Theseus's ship was swept off course and the pregnant and suffering Ariadne put ashore in the storm. Theseus, attempting to secure the ship, was inadvertently swept out to sea, thus being absolved of abandonment. The Cypriote women cared for Ariadne, who died in childbirth and was memorialized in a shrine. Theseus, overcome with grief upon his return, left money for sacrifices to Ariadne and ordered two cult images, one of silver and one of bronze, set up. At the observation in her honour on the second day of the month Gorpiaeus, one of the young men lay on the ground vicariously experiencing the throes of labour. The sacred grove in which the shrine was located was called the grove of Aphrodite Ariadne.\n\nThe primitive aspect of the cult at Amathus in this account would appear to be much older than the Athenian-sanctioned shrine of Aphrodite, who has assumed \"Ariadne\" (\"hagne\", \"sacred\") as an epithet at Amathus.\n\nAriadne (Etruscan: Areatha) is paired with Dionysus (Etruscan: Fufluns) on engraved bronze Etruscan bronze mirrorbacks, where the Athenian culture-hero Theseus is absent, and Semele (Etruscan: Semla), as mother of Dionysus, may accompany the pair, lending a particularly Etruscan air of family authority.\n\nSource:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35404177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35404177", "title": "Art and culture law", "text": "Art and culture law\n\nArt and culture law is the body of law, including domestic and foreign law, and multilateral treaties and conventions, that regulates and is applied to artists, fine art and cultural property.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1166292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1166292", "title": "Art critic", "text": "Art critic\n\nAn art critic is a person who is specialized in analyzing, interpreting and evaluating art. Their written critiques or reviews contribute to art criticism and they are published in newspapers, magazines, books, exhibition brochures and catalogues and on web sites. Some of today's art critics use art blogs and other online platforms in order to connect with a wider audience and expand debate about art.\n\nDifferently from art history, there is not an institutionalized training for art critics (with only few exceptions); art critics come from different backgrounds and they may or may not be university trained. Professional art critics are expected to have a keen eye for art and a thorough knowledge of art history. Typically the art critic views art at exhibitions, galleries, museums or artists' studios and they can be members of the International Association of Art Critics which has national sections. Very rarely art critics earn their living from writing criticism.\n\nThe opinions of art critics have the potential to stir debate on art related topics. Due to this the viewpoints of art critics writing for art publications and newspapers adds to public discourse concerning art and culture. Art collectors and patrons often rely on the advice of such critics as a way to enhance their appreciation of the art they are viewing. Many now famous and celebrated artists were not recognized by the art critics of their time, often because their art was in a style not yet understood or favored. Conversely, some critics, have become particularly important helping to explain and promote new art movements — Roger Fry with the Post-Impressionist movement, Lawrence Alloway with Pop Art as examples.\n\nAccording to James Elkins there is a distinction between art criticism and art history based on institutional, contextual and commercial criteria; the history of art criticism is taught in universities, but the practice of art criticism is excluded institutionally from academia. An experience-related article is Agnieszka Gratza. Always according to James Elkins in smaller and developing countries, newspaper art criticism normally serves as art history. James Elkins's perspective portraits his personal link to art history and art historians and in \"What happened to art criticism\" he furthermore highlights the gap between art historians and art critics by suggesting that the first rarely cite the second as a source and that the second miss an academic discipline to refer to.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27127437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27127437", "title": "Australian Art Review", "text": "Australian Art Review\n\nAustralian Art Review is an integrated quarterly magazine and website based in Sydney, featuring a mixture of exhibition reviews, artist and gallery profiles, advice for collectors and articles by art critics and scholars.\n\nThe first edition of the \"Australian Art Review\" appeared in March/June 2003. In 2008, the magazine was purchased by Westwick-Farrow Media.\n"}
{"id": "8480363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8480363", "title": "Britannia Theatre", "text": "Britannia Theatre\n\nThe Britannia Theatre (1841–1900) was located at 115/117 High Street, Hoxton, London. The theatre was badly damaged by a fire in 1900. The site was reused as a Gaumont cinema from 1913 to 1940, when this too was destroyed. The site is marked by a London Borough of Hackney historic plaque.\n\nA typical night's entertainment would include 3–4 plays, with variety acts in the intervals between. Many music hall acts would appear during the interval, and sometimes their acts were woven into the performance. The plays varied, from Shakespeare, Victorian melodrama and comedy. During the winter season pantomime was performed.\n\nUnusually for a theatre, food and drink were served in the auditorium, in the style of contemporary music halls.\n\nSamuel Haycraft Lane was born in Lympstone, Devon in 1803. In 1821, he decided to escape the life of a fisherman and walk to London. After living hand to mouth and educating himself, with the help of a friend, William Brian, he encountered a troupe of actors who he had previously met on his journey. He helped the leader of the troupe, Jack Adams, to find premises for performance at the Union Tavern in Shoreditch. This hall catered for 500–seated and a similar number standing. Jack Adam's company performed a successful programme of drama, song, dance and acrobatics. Sam married Jack's daughter Mary, in 1835.\n\nThe troupe always had ambitions to perform serious drama, and in 1839, the company performed \"Othello\", breaking the law on theatrical performance, as they were not a patent theatre. Lane lost his licence and paid a substantial fine. With the increase in London's population, and the increasing popularity of live entertainment, the law was finally changed with the Theatres Act 1843.\n\nIn 1840, Lane and his colleagues thought they had identified a loophole whereby performances could be offered without charge, with profits made from the sale of programmes, food and drink. The Britannia Tavern in Hoxton was identified as suitable premises. This was the former \"Pimlico\" tea gardens, an Elizabethan tavern and had a large hall attached, holding about 1,000 people. The \"Royal Britannia Saloon and Brittania Tavern\" was opened on Easter Monday 1841 by Sam Lane. The theatre was a success. Sadly, private life was more difficult, Mary became pregnant, and slipped and fell at a rehearsal, both she and the baby died. By 1858 having purchased the leases of surrounding properties, the theatre was rebuilt in larger form, with 3,000 seats. This building designed by Finch Hill, consisting of two circles, a pit and a gallery and had a reported record attendance of 4,790.\n\nThe Britannia was notable for melodramas. These included \"The String of Pearls\" (1847), the first stage adaptation of the story of Sweeney Todd, written specifically for this venue by George Dibdin Pitt. The theatre had a resident dramatist, C.H. Hazlewood, who wrote many melodramatic spectacles for it, often based on successful novels of the time, including an adaptation of \"Lady Audley's Secret\" (1863).\n\nCharles Dickens was a frequent visitor to the theatre, and noted in the \"Uncommercial Traveller\" (1861):\n\nMagnificently lighted by a firmament of sparkling chandeliers, the building was ventilated to perfection. [...] The air of this theatre was fresh, cool, and wholesome. [...] It has been constructed from the ground to the roof, with a careful reference to sight and sound in every corner; the result is, that its form is beautiful, and that the appearance of the audience, as seen from the proscenium -- with every face in it commanding the stage, and the whole so admirably raked and turned to that centre, that a hand can scarcely move in the great assemblage without the movement being seen from thence -- is highly remarkable in its union of vastness with compactness. The stage itself, and all its appurtenances of machinery, cellarage, height, and breadth, are on a scale more like the Scala at Milan. or the San Carlo at Naples, or the Grand Opera at Paris, than any notion a stranger would be likely to form of the Britannia Theatre at Hoxton, a mile north of St Luke’s Hospital in the Old-street-road, London. The Forty Thieves might be played here, and every thief ride his real horse, and the disguised captain bring in his oil jars on a train of real camels, and nobody be put out of the way. This really extraordinary place is an achievement of one man’s enterprise, and was erected on the ruins of an inconvenient old building, in less than five months, at a round cost of five-and-twenty thousand pounds.\n\nSam married Sarah Borrow (1822–1899) in 1843. She was the daughter of an old friend, William Borrow, who Lane had appointed to a managerial position in the Britannia. Sarah had begun her own career on the stage, at the age of 17, as a singer and dancer, under the stage name \"Miss Sarah Wilton\". On Lane's death in 1871, Sarah, succeeded him as proprietor and manager, and continued until her own death in August 1899. She appeared regularly as principal boy, in the Britannia's annual pantomimes and in the annual benefit night, appearing in a final tableaux as \"The Queen of Hoxton\". Sarah Lane made her last stage appearance at the Britannia's 1898 Christmas show, aged 76. \"Sallie\" was a well-respected and charitable member of the local community. Large crowds lined the route of her funeral procession from the theatre to Kensal Green Cemetery. Her estate was valued at a quarter of a million pounds, a significant sum in 1889.\n\nA review of \"King Doo-Dah\", the Christmas pantomime, 1900, at the Britannia Theatre, appeared in the \"News of the World\":\n\nThe Lupinos were a theatrical family who often claimed that their scion arrived in England in 1620, as a penniless refugee. George William Lupino was a puppeteer and the family continued to earn a theatrical living becoming associated with the harlequinade at Drury Lane. George Lupino Hook (1820–1902) adopted the stage name Lupino from performing with the family and was associated with the Britannia, performing in leading roles and taking the role of Harlequin in pantomime. A prolific man, reputed to have had 16 children, many became singers, dancers and actors, receiving their first experience in the company. The eldest son, civil registration as George Emanuel Samuel Hook (1853–1932) became both a clown and a prominent actor, amongst his grandchildren was the Hollywood actress Ida Lupino. Lupino Lane was the son of Harry Charles Lupino (1825–1925), a favourite of Sarah Lane and pursued a career in films and musical theatre. Lupino Lane originated \"The Lambeth Walk\", in the \n1937 musical \"Me and My Girl\"'.\n\nSoon after the 1900 pantomime, a serious fire damaged the building. The cost of bringing the building up to standard, forced the sale of the lease. It came into the hands of the Gaumont organisation, and became a cinema in 1913. The original theatre was demolished to make way for a modern cinema which was never built because of the war. In 1940 the nearby Toy Theatre [Pollock's Toy Museum], was destroyed in World War II by German bombing but the theatre building had already gone by this time.\n\nThe Britannia Theatre was unique amongst theatres of the time, for a number of reasons. Entry to the entertainment was always cheap, the income was made from sales of food and drink. There was an extraordinary continuity of management, the theatre was in the hands of the same family throughout its lifetime. The theatre also nurtured talent, many of the regular artistes were taken on at an early stage in their careers and remained with the theatre until retirement. The theatre prospered with the increasing free time and prosperity of its audience, and declined with the introduction of the cinema and later, radio.\n\nAuthor and critic Compton Mackenzie summed up the enduring legacy of the Britannia, in \"Echoes\" (1954):\n\nThe Britannia Theatre was the subject of a novel called \"Sam and Sallie: A novel of the theatre\" (1933) by Alfred L. Crauford. The Crauford's had a long association with the Britannia, and Alfred was one of Sarah Lane's many nephews.\n\nIn Sarah Waters novel, Tipping the Velvet, her lead characters are engaged to play pantomime in the theatre.\n\nMentioned in the (Cockney style singers) Chas and Dave's song `Harry was a Champion' (`down at the old Britania')\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33343873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33343873", "title": "Cartesian Reflections", "text": "Cartesian Reflections\n\nCartesian Reflection is a book by John Cottingham. It appeared in 2008. The work consists of several essays that deal with diverse topics, such as Descartes's views of animals, his position on the dualism of mind and body and the relation between his thoughts and those of Spinoza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44778530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44778530", "title": "Chariot clock", "text": "Chariot clock\n\nA chariot clock is a type of mantel/table figural clock in the form of a chariot whose dial is set into the wheel or elsewhere, its origins date back to the second half of the 16th century southern Germany. Normally of classical mythology subject matter, it has been made in different periods and styles such as Renaissance, Louis XV, Louis XVI, Empire, Napoleon III, Art Deco, etc.\n\nIn the historical context of the Renaissance, the so-called chariot clocks born in South Germany, a centre for clockmaking in Europe that flourished between 1550-1650, the leading cities being Augsburg, Nuremberg and Munich. They were selfmoving wheeled tabletop clocks that included automata figurines and some a musical movement too. The German examples have not the dial inserted in the wheel, but in the seat or some other place.\n\nMost of them were fabricated in Augsburg, although several existing clocks cannot be located due to the lack of inscriptions or hallmarks and are therefore ascribed only to South German workshops. These rare and at those days very costly pieces were only afforded by the nobility and royal courts.\n\nIn the 18th century France, during the Louis XV and Louis XVI reigns a small number of models, following their respective styles, were made, but it was not until the late 1790s and particularly during the first quarter of the 19th century that this type of clock found true popularity. Its revival was largely inspired by Napoleon Bonaparte’s conquers and victories in battles, though it continued to be in vogue after his definitive fall in 1815, specifically until the mid 1820s.\n\nIts popularity in much of Europe gave rise to a wide diversity of models (and variations within each model), allowing the fullest opportunity for the sculptor and bronzier to express their creativity and the brilliance of their craft. The freedom of trade initiated by the French Revolution allowed many casters, who during the ancien régime worked in workshops strictly limited to making bronze, to develop large factories. They took advantage of this opportunity to execute all stages of bronze making within one factory and drew, cast, gilded, assembled and sold objects of their own workshops. Artisans still benefited from pre-Revolution training and worked according to the standards of a luxury art from the ancien régime, but they had better means of production and organization. Once freed from the technical constraints, the artists were able to give free rein to their imagination and their fantasy to create a multitude of models.\n\nThis coincided in time with the golden age of the decorative bronze using the ormolu technique, with a whole series of celebrated bronziers creating masterpieces of design, craftsmanship and good taste, one of the most famous being Pierre-Philippe Thomire. All followed the same basic design, featuring an ancient chariot (two or four wheeled) on top of a rectangular or oblong base made out of bronze or marble, carrying figures of classical mythology deities, with the majority of them having the dial set into the wheel.\n\nIn common with the rest of the French Empire style mantel clocks of the period, the allegorical \"pendules au char\" (chariot clocks) also had a meaning, served a political ideology and often exalted moral values: Heroism, bravery, military virtues, love and fidelity, study and encouragement of arts and sciences, etc. They also have an educational power with evocative themes and narrative scenes in relief at the base.\n\nApart from France, in the first quarter of the 19th century, although to a much lesser extent, Empire style chariot clocks were also fabricated in Austria, England and Italy.\n\nDuring the second half of the 19th century and early 20th, this type of clock was produced again in France, some were replicas/versions of Empire and Louis XVI style preexisting models, while others were new designs crafted in the style of the day, like Napoleon III, or inspired in styles of the past, such as Louis XV or Rococo.\n\nIn the United States, the New Haven clock company produced a model in the early 20th century.\n\nAmong the range of models of the French company Berlot-Mussier (they used the trade name ODYV between 1927-1940) there were one in the Art Deco style with the case made out of faience they sold in the 1930s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66297", "title": "Chinese art", "text": "Chinese art\n\nChinese art is visual art that, whether ancient or modern, originated in or is practiced in China or by Chinese artists. The Chinese art in the Republic of China (Taiwan) and that of overseas Chinese can also be considered part of Chinese art where it is based in or draws on Chinese heritage and Chinese culture. Early \"stone age art\" dates back to 10,000 BC, mostly consisting of simple pottery and sculptures. After this early period Chinese art, like Chinese history, is typically classified by the succession of ruling dynasties of Chinese emperors, most of which lasted several hundred years.\n\nChinese art has arguably the oldest continuous tradition in the world, and is marked by an unusual degree of continuity within, and consciousness of, that tradition, lacking an equivalent to the Western collapse and gradual recovery of classical styles. The media that have usually been classified in the West since the Renaissance as the decorative arts are extremely important in Chinese art, and much of the finest work was produced in large workshops or factories by essentially unknown artists, especially in Chinese ceramics.\n\nMuch of the best work in ceramics, textiles, carved lacquer, and other techniques was produced over a long period by the various Imperial factories or workshops, which as well as being used by the court was distributed internally and abroad on a huge scale to demonstrate the wealth and power of the Emperors. In contrast, the tradition of ink wash painting, practiced mainly by scholar-officials and court painters especially of landscapes, flowers, and birds, developed aesthetic values depending on the individual imagination of and objective observation by the artist that are similar to those of the West, but long pre-dated their development there. After contacts with Western art became increasingly important from the 19th century onwards, in recent decades China has participated with increasing success in worldwide contemporary art.\n\nTraditional Chinese painting involves essentially the same techniques as Chinese calligraphy and is done with a\nbrush dipped in black or colored ink; oils are not used. As with calligraphy, the most popular materials on which paintings are made of paper and silk. The finished work can be mounted on scrolls, such as hanging scrolls or handscrolls. Traditional painting can also be done on album sheets, walls, lacquerware, folding screens, and other media.\n\nThe two main techniques in Chinese painting are:\n\nArtists from the Han (202 BC) to the Tang (618–906) dynasties mainly painted the human figure. Much of what is known of early Chinese figure painting comes from burial sites, where paintings were preserved on silk banners, lacquered objects, and tomb walls. Many early tomb paintings were meant to protect the dead or help their souls get to paradise. Others illustrated the teachings of the Chinese philosopher Confucius, or showed scenes of daily life. Most Chinese portraits showed a formal full-length frontal view, and were used in the family in ancestor veneration. Imperial portraits were more flexible, but were generally not seen outside the court, and portraiture formed no part of Imperial propaganda, as in other cultures.\n\nMany critics consider landscape to be the highest form of Chinese painting. The time from the Five Dynasties period to the Northern Song period (907–1127) is known as the \"Great age of Chinese landscape\". In the north, artists such as Jing Hao, Li Cheng, Fan Kuan, and Guo Xi painted pictures of towering mountains, using strong black lines, ink wash, and sharp, dotted brushstrokes to suggest rough rocks. In the south, Dong Yuan, Juran, and other artists painted the rolling hills and rivers of their native countryside in peaceful scenes done with softer, rubbed brushwork. These two kinds of scenes and techniques became the classical styles of Chinese landscape painting.\n\nChinese ritual bronzes from the Shang and Western Zhou dynasties come from a period of over a thousand years from c. 1500, and have exerted a continuing influence over Chinese art. They are cast with complex patterned and zoomorphic decoration, but avoid the human figure, unlike the huge figures only recently discovered at Sanxingdui. The spectacular Terracotta Army was assembled for the tomb of Qin Shi Huang, the first emperor of a unified China from 221–210 BC, as a grand imperial version of the figures long placed in tombs to enable the deceased to enjoy the same lifestyle in the afterlife as when alive, replacing actual sacrifices of very early periods. Smaller figures in pottery or wood were placed in tombs for many centuries afterwards, reaching a peak of quality in the Tang dynasty.\n\nNative Chinese religions do not usually use cult images of deities, or even represent them, and large religious sculpture is nearly all Buddhist, dating mostly from the 4th to the 14th century, and initially using Greco-Buddhist models arriving via the Silk Road. Buddhism is also the context of all large portrait sculpture; in total contrast to some other areas in medieval China even painted images of the emperor were regarded as private. Imperial tombs have spectacular avenues of approach lined with real and mythological animals on a scale matching Egypt, and smaller versions decorate temples and palaces. Small Buddhist figures and groups were produced to a very high quality in a range of media, as was relief decoration of all sorts of objects, especially in metalwork and jade. Sculptors of all sorts were regarded as artisans and very few names are recorded.\n\nChinese ceramic ware shows a continuous development since the pre-dynastic periods, and is one of the most significant forms of Chinese art. China is richly endowed with the raw materials needed for making ceramics. The first types of ceramics were made during the Palaeolithic era, and in later periods range from construction materials such as bricks and tiles, to hand-built pottery vessels fired in bonfires or kilns, to the sophisticated Chinese porcelain wares made for the imperial court. Most later Chinese ceramics, even of the finest quality, were made on an industrial scale, thus very few individual potters or painters are known. Many of the most renowned workshops were owned by or reserved for the Emperor, and large quantities of ceramics were exported as diplomatic gifts or for trade from an early date.\n\nAs well as porcelain, a wide range of materials that were more valuable were worked and decorated with great skill for a range of uses or just for display. Chinese jade was attributed with magical powers, and was used in the Stone and Bronze Ages for large and impractical versions of everyday weapons and tools, as well as the \"bi\" disks and \"cong\" vessels. Later a range of objects and small sculptures were carved in jade, a difficult and time-consuming technique. Bronze, gold and silver, rhinoceros horn, Chinese silk, ivory, lacquer and carved lacquer, cloisonne enamel and many other materials had specialist artists working in them.\n\nFolding screens () are often decorated with beautiful art; major themes include mythology, scenes of palace life, and nature. Materials such as wood panel, paper and silk are used in making folding screens. They were considered ideal ornaments for many painters to display their paintings and calligraphy. Many artists painted on paper or silk and applied it onto the folding screen. There were two distinct artistic folding screens mentioned in historical literature of the era.\n\nEarly forms of art in China are found in the Neolithic Yangshao culture, which dates back to the 6th millennium BC. Archeological findings such as those at the Banpo have revealed that the Yangshao made pottery; early ceramics were unpainted and most often cord-marked. The first decorations were fish and human faces, but these eventually evolved into symmetrical-geometric abstract designs, some painted.\n\nThe most distinctive feature of Yangshao culture was the extensive use of painted pottery, especially human facial, animal, and geometric designs. Unlike the later Longshan culture, the Yangshao culture did not use pottery wheels in pottery making. Excavations have found that children were buried in painted pottery jars.\n\nThe Liangzhu culture was the last Neolithic Jade culture in the Yangtze River Delta and was spaced over a period of about 1,300 years. The Jade from this culture is characterized by finely worked, large ritual jades such as Cong cylinders, Bi discs, Yue axes and also pendants and decorations in the form of chiseled open-work plaques, plates and representations of small birds, turtles and fish. The Liangzhu Jade has a white, milky bone-like aspect due to its Tremolite rock origin and influence of water-based fluids at the burial sites.\n\nThe Bronze Age in China began with the Xia dynasty. Examples from this period have been recovered from ruins of the Erlitou culture, in Shanxi, and include complex but unadorned utilitarian objects. In the following Shang dynasty more elaborate objects, including many ritual vessels, were crafted. The Shang are remembered for their bronze casting, noted for its clarity of detail. Shang bronzesmiths usually worked in foundries outside the cities to make ritual vessels, and sometimes weapons and chariot fittings as well. The bronze vessels were receptacles for storing or serving various solids and liquids used in the performance of sacred ceremonies. Some forms such as the \"ku\" and \"jue\" can be very graceful, but the most powerful pieces are the \"ding\", sometimes described as having an \"air of ferocious majesty\".\n\nIt is typical of the developed Shang style that all available space is decorated, most often with stylized forms of real and imaginary animals. The most common motif is the \"taotie\", which shows a mythological being presented frontally as though squashed onto a horizontal plane to form a symmetrical design. The early significance of \"taotie\" is not clear, but myths about it existed around the late Zhou dynasty. It was considered to be variously a covetous man banished to guard a corner of heaven against evil monsters; or a monster equipped with only a head which tries to devour men but hurts only itself.\n\nThe function and appearance of bronzes changed gradually from the Shang to the Zhou. They shifted from been used in religious rites to more practical purposes. By the Warring States period, bronze vessels had become objects of aesthetic enjoyment. Some were decorated with social scenes, such as from a banquet or hunt; whilst others displayed abstract patterns inlaid with gold, silver, or precious and semiprecious stones.\n\nBronze artifacts also have significant meaning and roles in Han Dynasty as well. People used them for funerary purposes which reflect the aesthetic and artistic qualities of Han Dynasty. Many bronze vessels excavated from tombs in Jiangsu Province, China have various shapes like Ding, Hu, and Xun which represent traditional Chinese aesthete. Other than the vessels, bronze weapons, daily items, and musical instruments are also found in royal Han families' tomb in Jiangsu. The excavation of Bianzhong, a typical and royal instrument found in ancient China, emphasizes the development of complex music systems in Han Dynasty.\n\nShang bronzes became appreciated as works of art from the Song dynasty, when they were collected and prized not only for their shape and design but also for the various green, blue green, and even reddish patinas created by chemical action as they lay buried in the ground. The study of early Chinese bronze casting is a specialized field of art history.\n\nA rich source of art in early China was the state of Chu, which developed in the Yangtze River valley. Excavations of Chu tombs have found painted wooden sculptures, jade disks, glass beads, musical instruments, and an assortment of lacquerware. Many of the lacquer objects are finely painted, red on black or black on red. A site in Changsha, Hunan province, has revealed some of the oldest paintings on silk discovered to date.\n\nDuring the Qin Dynasty, Chinese font, measurement systems, currency were all standardized in order to bring further unification. The Great Wall of China was expanded as a defensive construction against the northern intruders. \nThe Terracotta Army, inside the Mausoleum of the First Qin Emperor, consists of more than 7,000 life-size tomb terra-cotta figures of warriors and horses buried with the self-proclaimed first Emperor of Qin (Qin Shi Huang) in 210–209 BC. The figures were painted before being placed into the vault. The original colors were visible when the pieces were first unearthed. However, exposure to air caused the pigments to fade, so today the unearthed figures appear terracotta in color. The figures are in several poses including standing infantry and kneeling archers, as well as charioteers with horses. Each figure's head appears to be unique, showing a variety of facial features and expressions as well as hair styles. The spectacular realism displayed by the sculptures is an evidence of the advancement of art during the Qin Dynasty.\n\nA music instrument called Qin zither was developed during Qin Dynasty. \n\nThe Qin zither has seven strings, and it is often considered as a delivery of peace and harmony.\n\nThe Han dynasty was known for jade burial suits. One of the earliest known depictions of a landscape in Chinese art comes from a pair of hollow-tile door panels from a Western Han dynasty tomb near Zhengzhou, dated 60 BC. A scene of continuous depth recession is conveyed by the zigzag of lines representing roads and garden walls, giving the impression that one is looking down from the top of a hill. This artistic landscape scene was made by the repeated impression of standard stamps on the clay while it was still soft and not yet fired. However, the oldest known landscape art scene tradition in the classical sense of painting is a work by Zhan Ziqian of the Sui dynasty (581–618).\n\nOther than jade artifacts, bronze is another favorite medium for artists since it is hard and durable. Bronze mirrors have been mass produced in Han Dynasty(206 BC-220 AD), and almost every tomb excavated that has been dated as Han Dynasty has mirror in the burial. The reflective side is usually made by a composition of bronze, copper, tin, and lead. The word \"mirror\" means \"to reflect\" or \"to look into\" in Chinese, so bronze mirrors have been used as a trope for reflecting the reality. The ancient Chinese believe that mirror can act as a representation of the reality, which could make them more aware of the current situation; also, mirrors are used as a media to convey or present a reflection of the past events. The bronze mirrors made in Han Dynasty always have complex decorations on their non-reflective side; some of them consist narratives that tell stories.\n\nBuddhism arrived in China around the 1st century AD (although there are some traditions about a monk visiting China during Asoka's reign), and through to the 8th century it became very active and creative in the development of Buddhist art, particularly in the area of statuary. Receiving this distant religion, China soon incorporated strong Chinese traits in its artistic expression.\n\nIn the fifth to sixth century the Northern dynasties, rather removed from the original sources of inspiration, tended to develop rather symbolic and abstract modes of representation, with schematic lines. Their style is also said to be solemn and majestic. The lack of corporeality of this art, and its distance from the original Buddhist objective of expressing the pure ideal of enlightenment in an accessible, realistic manner, progressively led to a research towards more naturalism and realism, leading to the expression of Tang Buddhist art.\n\nIn ancient China, painting and calligraphy were the most highly appreciated arts in court circles and were produced almost exclusively by amateurs, aristocrats and scholar-officials who alone had the leisure to perfect the technique and sensibility necessary for great brushwork. Calligraphy was thought to be the highest and purest form of painting. The implements were the brush, made of animal hair, and black ink made from pine soot and animal glue. Writing as well as painting was done on silk. But after the invention of paper in the 1st century, silk was gradually replaced by the new and cheaper material. Original writings by famous calligraphers have been greatly valued throughout China's history and are mounted on scrolls and hung on walls in the same way that paintings are.\n\nWang Xizhi was a famous Chinese calligrapher who lived in the 4th century AD. His most famous work is the \"Lanting Xu\", the preface to a collection of poems. The script was often celebrated as the high point of the semi-cursive \"Running Style\" in the history of Chinese calligraphy.\n\nWei Shuo was a well-known calligrapher of the Eastern Jin dynasty who established consequential rules about the Regular Script. Her well-known works include \"Famous Concubine Inscription\" (名姬帖 Ming Ji Tie) and \"The Inscription of Wei-shi He'nan\" (衛氏和南帖 Wei-shi He'nan Tie).\n\nGu Kaizhi is a celebrated painter of ancient China born in Wuxi. He wrote three books about painting theory: \"On Painting\" (畫論), \"Introduction of Famous Paintings of Wei and Jin Dynasties\" (魏晉名畫記) and \"Painting Yuntai Mountain\" (畫雲臺山記). He wrote, \"In figure paintings the clothes and the appearances were not very important. The eyes were the spirit and the decisive factor.\"\nThree of Gu's paintings still survive today: \"Admonitions of the Instructress to the Court Ladies\", \"Nymph of the Luo River\" (洛神賦), and \"Wise and Benevolent Women\".\n\nThere are other examples of Jin dynasty painting from tombs. This includes the \"Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove,\" painted on a brick wall of a tomb located near modern Nanjing and now found in the Shaanxi Provincial Museum. Each of the figures are labeled and shown either drinking, writing, or playing a musical instrument. Other tomb paintings also depict scenes of daily life, such as men plowing fields with teams of oxen.\n\nFollowing a transition under the Sui dynasty, Buddhist sculpture of the Tang evolved towards a markedly lifelike expression. As a consequence of the dynasty's openness to foreign trade and influences through the Silk Road, Tang dynasty Buddhist sculpture assumed a rather classical form, inspired by the Greco-Buddhist art of Central Asia.\n\nHowever, foreign influences came to be negatively perceived towards the end of the Tang dynasty. In the year 845, the Tang emperor Wu-Tsung outlawed all \"foreign\" religions (including Christian Nestorianism, Zoroastrianism and Buddhism) in order to support the indigenous Taoism. He confiscated Buddhist possessions and forced the faith to go underground, therefore affecting the ulterior development of the religion and its arts in China.\n\nGlazed or painted earthenware Tang dynasty tomb figures are famous, and well-represented in museums around the world. Most wooden Tang sculptures have not survived, though representations of the Tang international style can still be seen in Nara, Japan. The longevity of stone sculpture has proved much greater. Some of the finest examples can be seen at Longmen, near Luoyang (Henan), Yungang near Datong (Shanxi), and Bingling Temple in Gansu.\nOne of the most famous Buddhist Chinese pagodas is the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda, built in 652 AD.\n\nBeginning in the Tang dynasty (618–907), the primary subject matter of painting was the landscape, known as shanshui (mountain water) painting. In these landscapes, usually monochromatic and sparse, the purpose was not to reproduce exactly the appearance of nature but rather to grasp an emotion or atmosphere so as to catch the \"rhythm\" of nature.\n\nPainting in the traditional style involved essentially the same techniques as calligraphy and was done with a brush dipped in black or colored ink; oils were not used. As with calligraphy, the most popular materials on which paintings were made were paper and silk. The finished works were then mounted on scrolls, which could be hung or rolled up. Traditional painting was also done in albums, on walls, lacquer work, and in other media.\n\nDong Yuan was an active painter in the Southern Tang Kingdom. He was known for both figure and landscape paintings, and exemplified the elegant style which would become the standard for brush painting in China over the next 900 years. As with many artists in China, his profession was as an official where he studied the existing styles of Li Sixun and Wang Wei. However, he added to the number of techniques, including more sophisticated perspective, use of pointillism and crosshatching to build up vivid effect.\n\nZhan Ziqian was a painter during the Sui dynasty. His only painting in existence is \"Strolling About In Spring\" arranged mountains perspectively. Because pure landscape paintings are hardly seen in Europe until the 17th century, \"Strolling About In Spring\" may well be the world's first landscape painting.\n\nDuring the Song dynasty (960–1279), landscapes of more subtle expression appeared; immeasurable distances were conveyed through the use of blurred outlines, mountain contours disappearing into the mist, and impressionistic treatment of natural phenomena. Emphasis was placed on the spiritual qualities of the painting and on the ability of the artist to reveal the inner harmony of man and nature, as perceived according to Taoist and Buddhist concepts.\n\nLiang Kai was a Chinese painter who lived in the 13th century (Song dynasty). He called himself \"Madman Liang\", and he spent his life drinking and painting. Eventually, he retired and became a Zen monk. Liang is credited with inventing the Zen school of Chinese art. Wen Tong was a painter who lived in the 11th century. He was famous for ink paintings of bamboo. He could hold two brushes in one hand and paint two different distanced bamboos simultaneously. He did not need to see the bamboo while he painted them because he had seen a lot of them.\n\nZhang Zeduan was a notable painter for his horizontal \"Along the River During Qingming Festival\" landscape and cityscape painting. It has been quoted as \"China's Mona Lisa\" and has had many well-known remakes throughout Chinese history. Other famous paintings include \"The Night Revels of Han Xizai\", originally painted by the Southern Tang artist Gu Hongzhong in the 10th century, while the well-known version of his painting is a 12th-century remake of the Song dynasty. This is a large horizontal handscroll of a domestic scene showing men of the gentry class being entertained by musicians and dancers while enjoying food, beverage, and wash basins provided by maidservants. In 2000, the modern artist Wang Qingsong created a parody of this painting with a long, horizontal photograph of people in modern clothing making similar facial expressions, poses, and hand gestures as the original painting.\n\nWith the fall of the Song dynasty in 1279, and the subsequent dislocation caused by the establishment of the Yuan dynasty by the Mongol conquerors, many court and literary artists retreated from social life, and returned to nature, through landscape paintings, and by renewing the \"blue and green\" style of the Tang era.\n\nWang Meng was one such painter, and one of his most famous works is the \"Forest Grotto\". Zhao Mengfu was a Chinese scholar, painter and calligrapher during the Yuan dynasty. His rejection of the refined, gentle brushwork of his era in favor of the cruder style of the 8th century is considered to have brought about a revolution that created the modern Chinese landscape painting. There was also the vivid and detailed works of art by Qian Xuan (1235–1305), who had served the Song court, and out of patriotism refused to serve the Mongols, instead turning to painting. He was also famous for reviving and reproducing a more Tang dynasty style of painting.\n\nThe later Yuan dynasty is characterized by the work of the so-called \"Four Great Masters\". The most notable of these was Huang Gongwang (1269–1354) whose cool and restrained landscapes were admired by contemporaries, and by the Chinese literati painters of later centuries. Another of great influence was Ni Zan (1301–1374), who frequently arranged his compositions with a strong and distinct foreground and background, but left the middle-ground as an empty expanse. This scheme was frequently to be adopted by later Ming and Qing dynasty painters.\n\nChinese porcelain is made from a hard paste made of the clay kaolin and a feldspar called petuntse, which cements the vessel and seals any . \"China\" has become synonymous with high-quality porcelain. Most china pots comes from the city of Jingdezhen in China's Jiangxi province. Jingdezhen porcelain, under a variety of names, has been central to porcelain production in China since at least the Yuan dynasty.\n\nUnder the Ming dynasty, Chinese culture bloomed. Narrative painting, with a wider color range and a much busier composition than the Song paintings, was immensely popular during the time.\n\nWen Zhengming (1470–1559) developed the style of the Wu school in Suzhou, which dominated Chinese painting during the 16th century.\n\nEuropean culture began to make an impact on Chinese art during this period. The Jesuit priest Matteo Ricci visited Nanjing with many Western artworks, which were influential in showing different techniques of perspective and shading.\n\nThe early Qing dynasty developed in two main strands: the Orthodox school, and the Individualist painters, both of which followed the theories of Dong Qichang, but emphasizing very different aspects.\n\nThe \"Four Wangs\", including Wang Jian (1598–1677) and Wang Shimin (1592–1680), were particularly renowned in the Orthodox school, and sought inspiration in recreating the past styles, especially the technical skills in brushstrokes and calligraphy of ancient masters. The younger Wang Yuanqi (1642–1715) ritualized the approach of engaging with and drawing inspiration from a work of an ancient master. His own works were often annotated with his theories of how his painting relates to the master's model.\n\nThe Individualist painters included Bada Shanren (1626–1705) and Shitao (1641–1707). They drew more from the revolutionary ideas of transcending the tradition to achieve an original individualistic styles; in this way they were more faithfully following the way of Dong Qichang than the Orthodox school (who were his official direct followers.)\n\nPainters outside of the literati-scholar and aristocratic traditions also gained renown, with some artists creating paintings to sell for money. These included Ma Quan (late 17th–18th century), who depicted common flowers, birds, and insects that were not typical subject matter among scholars. Such painters were, however, not separated from formal schools of painting, but were usually well-versed in artistic styles and techniques. Ma Quan, for example, modelled her brushwork on Song dynasty examples. Simultaneously, the boneless technique (), thought to have originated as a preparatory step when painting gold-line images during the Tang, was continued by painters like Yun Shouping (1633–1690) and his descendent Yun Bing.\n\nAs the techniques of color printing were perfected, illustrated manuals on the art of painting began to be published. \"Jieziyuan Huazhuan\" (Manual of the Mustard Seed Garden), a five-volume work first published in 1679, has been in use as a technical textbook for artists and students ever since.\n\nNianhua were a form of colored woodblock prints in China, depicting images for decoration during the Chinese New Year. In the 19th century Nianhua were used as news mediums.\n\nThe Shanghai School is a very important Chinese school of traditional arts during the Qing dynasty and the 20th century. Under efforts of masters from this school, traditional Chinese art reached another climax and continued to the present in forms of \"Chinese painting\" (中國畫), or \"guohua\" (國畫) for short. The Shanghai School challenged and broke the literati tradition of Chinese art, while also paying technical homage to the ancient masters and improving on existing traditional techniques. Members of this school were themselves educated literati who had come to question their very status and the purpose of art, and had anticipated the impending modernization of Chinese society. In an era of rapid social change, works from the Shanghai School were widely innovative and diverse, and often contained thoughtful yet subtle social commentary. The best known figures from this school are Ren Xiong, Ren Bonian, Zhao Zhiqian, Wu Changshuo, Sha Menghai, Pan Tianshou, Fu Baoshi, He Tianjian, and Xie Zhiliu. Other well-known painters include Wang Zhen, XuGu, Zhang Xiong, Hu Yuan, and Yang Borun.\n\nWith the end of the last dynasty in China, the New Culture Movement began and defied all facets of traditionalism. A new breed of 20th-century cultural philosophers like Xiao Youmei, Cai Yuanpei, Feng Zikai and Wang Guangqi wanted Chinese culture to modernise and reflect the New China. The Chinese Civil War would cause a drastic split between the Kuomintang and the Communist Party of China. Following was the Second Sino-Japanese War in particular. The Battle of Shanghai would leave the major cultural art center borderline to a humanitarian crisis.\nOng Schan Tchow () (1900–1945), artist and friend of Cai Yuanpei accomplished the subtle integration of Western art techniques and perspectives into traditional Chinese painting. Ong was one of the first few batches of Chinese scholars and artists who studied in France in the early 20th century.\n\nWestern style oil painting was introduced to China by painters such as Xiao Tao Sheng. Another important influential artist in the 1940s was Tai Ping Meijing who incorporated nature in all his art and mixed traditional Asian art with realism.\n\nThe Communist Party of China gained full control of the government with Mao Zedong heading the People's Republic of China. Artists were heavily promoted if their art was presented in a manner that favored the government. Vice versa, any clash with communist party beliefs would force artists to become farmers via \"re-education\" processes under the regime. The peak era of governmental control came during the Cultural Revolution. The most notable event was the Destruction of the Four Olds, which had major consequences for pottery, painting, literary art, architecture, and more.\n\nArtists were encouraged to employ socialist realism. Some Soviet Union socialist realism was imported without modification, and painters were assigned subjects and expected to mass-produce paintings. This regimen was considerably relaxed in 1953 and, after the Hundred Flowers Campaign of 1956–57, traditional Chinese painting experienced a significant revival. Along with these developments in professional art circles, there was a proliferation of peasant art depicting everyday life in the rural areas on wall murals and in open-air painting exhibitions. Notable modern Chinese painters include Huang Binhong, Qi Baishi, Xu Beihong, Cai Jin, Chang Ta Chien, Pan Tianshou, Wu Changshi, Fu Baoshi, Wang Kangle, and Zhang Chongren.\n\nContemporary Chinese art (, Zhongguo Dangdai Yishu) often referred to as Chinese avant-garde art, continued to develop since the 1980s as an outgrowth of modern art developments post-Cultural Revolution. \n\nContemporary Chinese art fully incorporates painting, film, video, photography, and performance. Until recently, art exhibitions deemed controversial have been routinely shut down by police, and performance artists in particular faced the threat of arrest in the early 1990s. More recently there has been greater tolerance by the Chinese government, though many internationally acclaimed artists are still restricted from media exposure at home or have exhibitions ordered closed. Leading contemporary visual artists include Ai Weiwei, Cai Guoqiang, Cai Jin, Chan Shengyao, Fang Lijun, Fu Wenjun, He Xiangyu, Huang Yan, Huang Yong Ping, Han Yajuan, Kong Bai Ji, Li Hongbo, Li Hui, Liu Bolin, Lu Shengzhong, Ma Liuming, Qiu Shihua, Shen Shaomin, Shi Jinsong, Song Dong, Li Wei, Wang Guangyi, Wenda Gu, Xu Bing, Yang Zhichao, Zhan Wang, Zheng Lianjie, Zhang Dali, Zhang Xiaogang, Zhang Huan, Zhu Yu, Ma Kelu, Ding Fang, Shang Yang, Gao Minglu and Guo Jian.\n\nBeginning in the late 1980s there was unprecedented exposure for younger Chinese visual artists in the west to some degree through the agency of curators based outside the country such as Hou Hanru. Local curators within the country such as Gao Minglu and critics such as Li Xianting (栗憲庭) reinforced this promotion of particular brands of painting that had recently emerged, while also spreading the idea of art as a strong social force within Chinese culture. There was some controversy as critics identified these imprecise representations of contemporary Chinese art as having been constructed out of personal preferences, a kind of programmatized artist-curator relationship that only further alienated the majority of the avant-garde from Chinese officialdom and western art market patronage.\n\nToday, the market for Chinese art, both antique and contemporary, is widely reported to be among the hottest and fastest-growing in the world, attracting buyers all over the world. The \"Voice of America\" reported in 2006 that modern Chinese art is raking in record prices both internationally and in domestic markets, some experts even fearing the market might be overheating. \"The Economist\" reported that Chinese art has become the latest darling in the world market according to the record sales from Sotheby's and Christie's, the biggest fine-art auction houses.\n\nContemporary Chinese art saw record sales throughout the 2000s. In 2007, it was estimated that 5 of the world's 10 best selling living artists at art auction were from China, with artists such as Zhang Xiaogang whose works were sold for a total of $56.8 million at auction in 2007. In terms of buying-market, China overtook France in the late 2000s as the world's third-largest art market, after the United States and the United Kingdom, due to the growing middle-class in the country. Sotheby's noted that contemporary Chinese art has rapidly changed the contemporary Asian art world into one of the most dynamic sectors on the international art market. During the global economic crisis, the contemporary Asian art market and the contemporary Chinese art market experienced a slow down in late 2008. The market for Contemporary Chinese and Asian art saw a major revival in late 2009 with record level sales at Christie's.\n\nFor centuries largely made-up of European and American buyers, the international buying market for Chinese art has also begun to be dominated by Chinese dealers and collectors in recent years. It was reported in 2011, China has become the world's second biggest market for art and antiques, accounting for 23 percent of the world's total art market, behind the United States (which accounts for 34 percent of the world's art market). Another transformation driving the growth of the Chinese art market is the rise of a clientele no longer mostly European or American. New fortunes from countries once thought of as poor often prefer non-Western art; a large gallerist in the field has offices in both New York and Beijing, but clients mainly hailing from Latin America, Asia and the Middle East.\n\nOne of the areas that has revived art concentration and also commercialized the industry is the 798 Art District in Dashanzi of Beijing. The artist Zhang Xiaogang sold a 1993 painting for US$2.3 million in 2006, which included blank faced Chinese families from the Cultural Revolution era, while Yue Minjun's work \"Execution\" in 2007 was sold for a then record of nearly $6 million at Sotheby's. Collectors including Stanley Ho, the owner of the Macau Casinos, investment manager Christopher Tsai, and casino developer Steve Wynn, would capitalize on the art trends. Items such as Ming dynasty vases and assorted Imperial pieces were auctioned off.\n\nOther art works were sold in places such as Christie's including a Chinese porcelain piece with the mark of the Qianlong Emperor sold for HKD $ $151.3 million. Sotheby's and Christie's act as major market platforms for classical Chinese porcelain art pieces to be sold, including Ming dynasty, Xuande mark and period (1426–35) Blue and White jar (Five-Clawed Dragon Print), which was auctioned for Approx. USD 19,224,491.2, through Christie's in Spring 2016 The \"International Herald Tribune\" reported that Chinese porcelains were fought over in the art market as \"if there was no tomorrow\".\n\nA 1964 painting by Li Keran \"All the Mountains Blanketed in Red\" was sold for HKD $35 million. Auctions were also held at Sotheby's where Xu Beihong's 1939 masterpiece \"Put Down Your Whip\" sold for HKD $72 million. The industry is not limited to fine arts, as many other types of contemporary pieces were also sold. In 2000, a number of Chinese artists were included in Documenta and the Venice Biennale of 2003. China now has its own major contemporary art showcase with the Venice Biennale. Fuck Off was a notorious art exhibition which ran alongside the Shanghai Biennial Festival in 2000 and was curated by independent curator Feng Boyi and contemporary artist Ai Weiwei.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5176136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5176136", "title": "Conceiving Ada", "text": "Conceiving Ada\n\nConceiving Ada is a 1997 film produced, written, and directed by Lynn Hershman Leeson. Henry S. Rosenthal was co-producer of the film. The Cinematography by Hiro Narita and Bill Zarchy, the latter being the director of photography.\n\nEmmy Coer is a computer scientist obsessed with Countess Ada Lovelace, author of the first computer algorithm, written for Charles Babbage's \"Analytical Engine\". She is upset to discover she is pregnant believing that the pregnancy will interfere with her work. Afraid of losing her boyfriend she decides to keep the baby. Emmy tries to work on a way of communicating with Lovelace in the past by way of \"undying information waves\". She eventually succeeds and is able to communicate with Ada and learn about her studies, her work and how she felt that in many ways her work was hampered by her children and by the time she lived in. Emmy wants to bring Ada into the present by allowing her to inhabit her body. A dying Ada refuses, insisting that Emmy needs to live her own life. However, by 2002 Emmy is raising a daughter who has been embedded with Ada's consciousness and who already shows a precociousness with computers despite the fact that Emmy is trying to raise her to have a normal childhood.\n\n\nUpon its February 1999 premiere in New York City, Stephen Holden called its premise \"intriguing\" though the film is \"much better at throwing out ideas than at telling a story or at creating compelling characters\"; it has a \"overall air of woodenness and shrill didacticism.\"\n\nThat same month, Edward Guthmann of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" called it a \"film without category or precedent. A meditation on memory, feminism, immortality and the horizons of virtual reality, it's got enough ideas and intellectual fodder for a dozen films—which is its virtue and its defect at the same time. Directed by local video artist Lynn Hershman Leeson, \"Conceiving Ada\" is a fanciful, multilayered experiment about two women who connect through cyberspace across the divide of time and discover some remarkable parallels between their lives.\n\n"}
{"id": "48074851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48074851", "title": "Erwin Brothers", "text": "Erwin Brothers\n\nAndrew and Jon Erwin, known as the Erwin Brothers, are American Christian film directors, screenwriters and film producers known for such films as \"Woodlawn\", \"October Baby\", \"Moms' Night Out\" and \"I Can Only Imagine\".\n\nTheir most successful movie to date is \"I Can Only Imagine\", which grossed a worldwide total of $83.5 million against a production budget of $7 million, with only 1629 theaters for its opening week. The Erwin brothers are the grandsons of Henry Erwin a Medal Of Honor recipient from World War II.\n\nIn 2017 the brothers and their filmmaking partner Kevin Downes announced the formation of a new company, Kingdom, that will make a series of original movies that will be distributed through LionsGate. Some will be directed by the Erwins, while other movies will use newcomers and other veteran directors. Jon Erwin compared it to a \"Christian Pixar\" or \"Christian Marvel.\" As Baptist Press put it, the company will specialize \"in a specific area\" -- the faith-based genre -- and be able to \"work on multiple films at one time.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1163376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1163376", "title": "Faust, Part Two", "text": "Faust, Part Two\n\nFaust: The Second Part of the Tragedy (), is the second part of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's \"Faust\". It was published in 1832, the year of Goethe's death. Because of its complexity in form and content, it is usually not read in German schools, although the first part commonly is.\n\nOnly part of Faust I is directly related to the legend of Johann Faust, which dates to at latest the beginning of the 16th century (thus preceding Marlowe's play). The \"Gretchen\" subplot, although now the most widely known episode of the Faust legend, was of Goethe's own invention. In Faust II, the legend (at least in a version of the 18th century, which came to Goethe's attention) already contained Faust's marriage with Helen and an encounter with an Emperor. But certainly Goethe deals with the legendary material very freely in both parts.\n\n\nThe first act opens with an appeal by Ariel to forgive Faust and ease the cares of his suffering.\n\n\nThe first act sees Mephistopheles (playing the role of a fool) saving the imperial finances of the Emperor – and so the Holy Roman Empire – by introducing the use of paper money instead of gold to encourage spending (and economic recovery).\n\n\nThis is by far the most extensive section of the first act, describing the Florentine carnival from the perspective of Goethe, above all based on Antonio Francesco Grazzini's \"Tutti i Trifoni\" (1559) – a collection of contemporary \"songs and hard lifts\". A parade of Florentine notables, including Dante and Gianni Schicchi, pass by.\n\n\nThe \"Emperor of Thumb\" (to use a devilish term of Mephistopheles) describes how much he enjoyed the recent celebrations, and wants more \"dergleichen Scherze\" (5988). The Emperor appears and blesses the newly introduced paper money from Mephisto, which is adorned with pictures of Simon Magus. The Emperor begins to understand its meaning and to squander it, as do his advisors. Goethe here satirizes the introduction of paper money during the French Revolution, with various advisors possibly representing Danton, Sieyès and other figures.\n\n\nFaust enters the \"realm of the mothers\" – variously described as the depths of the psyche or the womb – in order to bring back the \"ideal form\" of beauty for the Emperor's delight. In this case, the ideal forms are Helen of Troy and her lover Paris. Faust summons their spirits from Hades, but the emperor and the male members of his court criticize Paris's appearance, while the women of the court criticize Helen's appearance. Faust falls in love with Helen. In a fit of jealously toward Paris, who is now abducting Helen, Faust destroys the illusion and the act ends in darkness and tumult.\n\nMephistopheles transports the unconscious Faust into his old study. Mephistopheles, donning Faust's robe once again, resumes his conversation with the freshman, who is now a cynical baccalaurus. The Homunculus, an artificial human being created by Wagner, Faust's former famulus, by means of an alchemical process, leads Faust and Mephistopheles to the \"Classical Walpurgisnacht\", where they encounter gods and monsters from Greek antiquity. Faust, still searching for Helen, is led by the sybil Manto into the Underworld. Mephistopheles, meanwhile, meets the Phorkyads or Phorcydes (another name for the Graeae) three hideous hags who share one tooth and one eye between them, and he disguises himself as one of them. Guided by the sea-god Proteus, the Homunculus is initiated into the process of becoming fully human.\n\nThe third act begins with Helen's arrival at the palace of Menelaus in Sparta, accompanied by women, who, as in Classical drama, constitute the chorus. The hideous Phorkyas appears at the hearth, and warns Helen that Menelaus means to sacrifice her and her attendants. Distraught at this new knowledge, Helen implores Phorkyas to save them. Phorkyas transports Helen and the chorus to Faust's fortress, where Helen and Faust declare their love for each other. After defeating Menelaus' army, Faust proclaims the pastoral beauty of the Arcadian countryside.\n\nThe scene changes in time and space: a range of rocky caverns, with a shadowy grove extending to the foot of the rocks. Phorkyas, now Faust and Helen's attendant, explains to the newly-woken chorus that during the past interval Faust and Helen have had a spirited son named Euphorion, who charms all with his beauty and gift for music. The wild Euphorion, becoming increasingly bold in his flight, falls to his death (in allusion to Icarus), whereupon the sorrowful Helen disappears in a mist to Hades (in allusion to the legend of Orpheus). The chorus of women, undesirous of joining their mistress in the Underworld, revert to nature, which they extol in songs of praise. As the act ends, Phorkyas is revealed to be Mephistopheles in disguise.\n\nIn the fourth act, Faust returns to the Emperor, who is at war with a rival Emperor. With the help of Mephistopheles' ordered ranks of Daemons they achieve victory.\n\nAn indefinite interval of time has passed since the end of the previous act, and Faust is now an old but powerful man favored by the king. Using dikes and dams to push back the sea, Faust has built a castle on the reclaimed land. Upon seeing the hut of an old peasant couple (Baucis and Philemon) and a nearby chapel, Faust becomes irritated that these two structures do not belong to him, and orders to have them removed. Mephistopheles overinterprets Faust's orders by murdering the old couple. The personification of Care breathes upon Faust's eyes, and he becomes blind. Upon disclosing his plans to better the lives of his subjects, motivated perhaps out of guilt, he recognizes the moment of sheer bliss which he would seek to prolong and drops dead. Mephistopheles believes Faust has lost his wager and tries to claim his soul. Angels suddenly appear, dropping rose-petals on the demons, who flee from the burning petals. Mephistopheles, however, stands his ground, and, under the aphrodisiac influence of the roses, lusts after the angels, who meanwhile make off with Faust's soul.\n\nThe scene abruptly changes to a wilderness inhabited by holy anchorites: \"Mountain-gorges, Forest, Rock, Desert\". \"Pater Profundus\" discloses the parable of nature, which is a harbinger of divine love. The angels bearing Faust's soul appear in heaven. After the enraptured Doctor Marianus extols the Eternal Feminine, the virgin Mary, \"Mater Gloriosa\", appears from on high. Three biblical holy women, \"Magna Peccatrix\" (the Great Sinneress, Luke 7:36), \"Mulier Samaritana\" (the Samaritan woman, John 4), and \"Maria Aegyptiaca\" (\"Acta Sanctorum\"), plead for Faust's soul, while \"Una Paenitentium\" (previously Gretchen), also pleading for grace, offers to lead the reborn Faust into the higher spheres of heaven. \"Mater Gloriosa\" grants her wish.\n\nThe \"Chorus Mysticus\" ends the drama:\n<poem style=\"margin-left: 2em;\">All that must disappear\nIs but a parable;\nWhat lay beyond us, here\nAll is made visible;\nHere deeds have understood\nWords they were darkened by;\nEternal Womanhood\nDraws us on high.</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "10936450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10936450", "title": "Film adaptations of Uncle Tom's Cabin", "text": "Film adaptations of Uncle Tom's Cabin\n\nA number of film adaptations of \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" have been made over the years. Most of these movies were created during the silent film era (with \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" being the most-filmed story of that time period). Since the 1930s, Hollywood studios have considered the story too controversial for another adaptation (although one foreign film and a made-for-TV movie have been created). Characters, themes and plot elements from \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" have also influenced a large number of other movies, including \"The Birth of a Nation\" (1915), while also inspiring numerous animated cartoons.\n\n\"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" was the most-filmed story of the silent film era with at least nine known adaptations between 1903 – 1927. This popularity was due to the continuing popularity of both the book and \"Tom shows\", meaning audiences were already familiar with the characters and the plot, making it easier for the film to be understood without spoken words.\n\n\nA number of movies have utilized characters, plots, and themes from \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", including \"An Uncle Tom's Cabin Troupe\" (1913); the Duncan Sisters' \"Topsy and Eva\" (1927); \"Uncle Tom's Uncle,\" a 1926 Our Gang episode which has the kids creating their own \"Tom Show\" and 1938's \"Everybody Sing\" (which features Judy Garland in blackface). But for several decades after the end of the silent film era, the subject matter of Stowe's novel was judged too sensitive for further film interpretation. In 1946, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer considered filming the story, but ceased production after protests led by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. \n\nEdwin S. Porter’s 1903 film production, \"Uncle Tom’s Cabin; or, Slavery Days\", was based largely off of the theatrical productions of the same story common during that time. The movie lived up to racial stereotypes in wide circulation, and scenes were included to showcase slave dances. While African-American extras made appearances, white actors in blackface played the main slave characters. The film storyline strays widely from the plot of the novel, as exemplified by a scene completely independent of the novel depicting a steamboat race. The film assumes the audience is generally familiar with the plot due to the story’s long running popularity.\nUniversal Studio’s 1927 release of \"Uncle Tom’s Cabin\" was an epic film and a step forward for Stowe's work. While certain stigmatic similarities remained, such as scenes depicting outlandish slave dances and Topsy’s flamboyant unruliness, this version was less outmoded in its characterization of slaves. More than earlier adaptations, this film took care to accurately follow the book, and some lines in the movie are direct quotes from the text. Integral characters omitted from previous films were brought to the forefront, such as George Harris. While the overall story remained intact, the writers did take some liberties. For instance, after escaping to freedom, Eliza and Harry are captured by the lawyer Marks and runaway slave tracker Tom Loker and sold down the river as opposed to receiving aid from kindly Quakers. Harry is separated from his mother when purchased by a nameless slave-owner before eventually being reunited with his father. Eliza is sold off to Simon Legree at the same auction as Uncle Tom. This alteration omits the entire subplot involving the Harris family’s escape to Canada, weaving the story into one coherent plot. Another twist in the storyline occurs when Union soldiers on the march through the south liberate hundreds of slaves along the way, including the residents of Legree’s plantation. The director moved the story forward historically to capitalize on the public’s patriotic sympathies.\nSocially, this film was more progressive than previous versions. Fewer characters were portrayed in blackface (Topsy is an outstanding exception) and less of an emphasis was put on exotic slave customs. Still, the majority of the screen time is dedicated to the white actors. African American actor James B. Lowe played the character Uncle Tom, but was on screen for less than 9 minutes and speaks less than a dozen lines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5178105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5178105", "title": "Flash Art", "text": "Flash Art\n\nFlash Art is a bimonthly magazine founded in Rome in 1967 by Italian publisher and art critic Giancarlo Politi focused on contemporary art. It has been based in Milan, Italy since 1971. Originally a bilingual publication, it was split in two separate editions, \"Flash Art Italia\" (in Italian) and \"Flash Art International\" (in English) in 1978 when Helena Kontova joined the editorial team.\n\n\"Flash Art\" extensively covered the Arte Povera artists in the 1960s, before they became known in the English-speaking world. It is especially known for featuring Andy Warhol's final interview before his death in 1987.\n\nIt also publishes \"Flash Art Czech & Slovak Edition\" and \"Flash Art Hungary\".\n\nThe first issue of \"Flash Art International\" featured the seminal text \"The Italian Transavantgarde\" by Achille Bonito Oliva, whose ‘Ideology of the Traitor’ introduces the art of Enzo Cucchi, Francesco Clemente, Sandro Chia, Mimmo Paladino, among others.\n\nIn the November 1967 issue, \"prime mover of the Arte Povera movement\" Germano Celant published a manifesto entitled \"Notes for a Guerrilla War,\" engaging political issues with the art of Michelangelo Pistoletto, Mario Merz, Giulio Paolini, Giovanni Anselmo, Alighiero Boetti, Luciano Fabro, and Jannis Kounellis among others. In 1977 the Committee for the Artists Space hosted the exhibition “Pictures”. On its occasion, \"Flash Art\" published texts by Douglas Crimp and artists Thomas Lawson and David Salle, highlighting the birth of the Pictures Generation.\n\nIn 1972, \"Flash Art\" dedicated an entire issue, on the occasion of Documenta V, with a cover by Hans Haacke.\n\nIn 1980 the editorial board started to give increasing attention to the New York City art scene; Thomas Lawson reviewed on David Salle at Larry Gagosian Gallery / Nosei-Weber / The Kitchen as well as the famous \"Three Cs\" (Chia, Clemente and Cucchi) at Sperone Westwater Fisher, helping to bring the central figures of the Transavanguardia to public attention.\n\nJeff Koons independently published his iconic, color lithograph advertisements in 1988 in \"Flash Art\" along with \"Artforum and Art in America\", advertisements that later became famous for being \"deliberately provocative, questioning the merits of 'high art', whilst also endorsing popular culture.\" \"With slogans such as \"Exploit the Masses / Banality as Saviour\", the ads reflected Koons desire to 'remove bourgeois guilt and shame in responding to banality'\".\n\nDuring his tenure as \"Flash Art\" U.S. Editor Massimiliano Gioni started to collaborate more and more with Maurizio Cattelan. The latter continued his special relationship with \"Flash Art International\" in a series of sardonic interviews with young and promising artists. Years later, \"Flash Art International\" was featured in the form of a social-art experiment in the documentary \"Maurizio Cattelan: Be Right Back\" released in May 2017.\n\nIn a 2017 ARTnews feature, MoMA PS1 founder Alanna Heiss revealed that \"[t]he people hired by Flash Art were always interesting because they really liked art. I was interested in their peculiar hiring policy.\"\n\nIt was described by Tony Stankus as \"the confident, international journal of European and North American contemporary art\" and by \"Publishers Weekly\" as a \"distinguished by a cacophony of voices and congenial chaos\".\n\n\"Flash Art\" acquired a magazine format in 1974. The magazine was published in three languages: Italian, English and French and was divided in two main parts. In 1979 it split into two editions: \"Flash Art International\" and \"Flash Art Italia\". After \"Flash Art Russia\", the brand new Czech and Slovak Republic edition of the magazine underlined the former USSR satellite as the new epicenter of \"Flash Art\" Eastern Europe activities.\n\nBesides its magazine activities, Flash Art publishes books, monographs and catalogues, including \"Art Diary International\", a directory that lists addresses and phone numbers of artists, critics, galleries, and museums. In 2016, \"Flash Art International\" published Chinese artist Wang Yuyang's monograph \"Tonight I shall meditate upon that which I am.\"\n\nIn 1993, Politi published the catalogue of Aperto '93, a section of the Venice Biennale organized by his wife Helena Kontova. Also in 1993, Giancarlo Politi opened the Trevi Flash Art Museum in his hometown, Trevi, which eventually closed due to the lack of public support. In the 2001 Giancarlo Politi started, together with Helena Kontova, the Tirana Biennale in Albania. In 2003 they started together the Prague Biennale in the Czech Republic and they have been the directors of the first six editions (2003-2005-2007-2009-2011-2013).\n"}
{"id": "21496085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21496085", "title": "Fock–Lorentz symmetry", "text": "Fock–Lorentz symmetry\n\nLorentz invariance follows from two independent postulates: the principle of relativity and the principle of constancy of the speed of light. Dropping the latter while keeping the former leads to a new invariance, known as Fock–Lorentz symmetry or the projective Lorentz transformation. The general study of such theories began with Fock, who was motivated by the search for the general symmetry group preserving relativity without assuming the constancy of \"c\".\n\nThis invariance does not distinguish between inertial frames (and therefore satisfies the principle of relativity) but it allows for a varying speed of light in space, \"c\"; indeed it allows for a non-invariant \"c\". According to Maxwell's equations, the speed of light satisfies\nwhere \"ε\" and \"μ\" are the electric constant and the magnetic constant. If the speed of light depends upon the space–time coordinates of the medium, say \"x\", then\nwhere formula_3 represents the vacuum as a variable medium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5611631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5611631", "title": "Genius (literature)", "text": "Genius (literature)\n\nThe concept of genius, in literary theory and literary history, derives from the later 18th century, when it began to be distinguished from \"ingenium\" in a discussion of the \"genius loci,\" or \"spirit of the place.\" It was a way of discussing essence, in that each place was supposed to have its own unique and immutable nature, but this essence was determinant, in that all persons of a place would be infused or inspired by that nature. In the early nationalistic literary theories of the Augustan era, each nation was supposed to have a nature determined by its climate, air, and fauna that made a nation's poetry, manners, and art singular. It created national character.\n\nT.V.F. Brogan argues that \"genius\" is a middle term in the evolution of the idea of inspiration and poetic ability from a belief in an external source (\"afflatus,\" or divine infection, and poetic phrenzy, or divine madness) and an internal source (imagination and the subconscious). However, the concept became nearly identical with poetic madness and divine madness in later Romanticism. The word itself was conflated with the Latin \"ingenium\" (natural ability) by the time of the Renaissance, and it thereby becomes a natural spirit or natural essence unique to the individual and yet derived from the place. In this sense, it is still a term synonymous with skill.\n\nEdward Young's \"Conjectures on Original Composition\" (1759) was the most significant reformulation of \"genius\" away from \"ability\" and toward the Romantic concept of \"genius\" as seer or visionary. His essay influenced the \"Sturm und Drang\" German theorists, and these influenced Coleridge's \"Biographia Literaria.\" The Romantics saw genius as superior to skill, as being far above ability. James Russell Lowell would say \"talent is that which is in a man's power: genius is that in whose power a man is\" (quoted in Brogan). The emphasis on Gothic literature, on the sublime in general, and the poet as spokesman of a nation's consciousness allowed the declining meaning of \"genius\" as \"natural spirit of the place\" and the emergent meaning of \"genius\" as \"inherent and irrational ability\" to combine. At the same time, Romanticism's definition of genius as a person driven by a force beyond his or her control and as an ability that surpasses the natural and exceeds the human mind makes it virtually identical with the Classical notion of divine madness or frenzy.\n\nWith the incorporation of Sigmund Freud's theories of poetic madness and the irrationality of imagination deriving from the subconscious, \"genius\" in poetry entered 20th century critical parlance as, again, something inherent in the writer. The writer was special and set aside from others by \"genius,\" which might be a psychic wound or a particular formation of the ego but which was nonetheless unique to that particular person and was the critical feature that made that person an artist. Irving Babbitt's writings discuss the genius in the Modernist view. Again, genius is something above skill, something that cannot be explained, contained, or diagnosed.\n\nSince Modernism's decline, \"genius\" has faded somewhat from critical discussions. As writing has focused on its own media and writers have focused on process (e.g. the L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E poets and post-modernism), the belief in a special trait that makes the artist above the run of humanity, and more particularly the view that skill is inferior to imagination, has been in decline. However, there is an emergent concept of genius associated with the culture of certain contemporary literary circles. Such an image of genius is often defined in opposition to the figure of the critic, the former being more independent and spontaneous in their thought, the latter being more self-reflective but consequently restricted to responding to, rather than creating, enduring cultural artifacts. The earliest version of this formulation is to be found in Lessing's commentary on Kant's notion of genius. Kant scholar Jane Kneller articulates the subtlety of his distinction by explaining \"genius demonstrates its autonomy not by ignoring all rules, but by deriving the rules from itself.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1571880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571880", "title": "Graphic designer", "text": "Graphic designer\n\nA graphic designer is a professional within the graphic design and graphic arts industry who assembles together images, typography, or motion graphics to create a piece of design. A graphic designer creates the graphics primarily for published, printed or electronic media, such as brochures (sometimes) and advertising. They are also sometimes responsible for typesetting, illustration, user interfaces, and web design. A core responsibility of the designer's job is to present information in a way that is both accessible and memorable.\n\nA Bachelor's degree or certificate from an accredited trade school is usually considered essential for a graphic design position. After a career history has been established, though, the graphic designer's experience and number of years in the business are considered the primary qualifications. A portfolio, which is the primary method for demonstrating these qualifications, is usually required to be shown at job interviews, and is constantly developed throughout a designer's career.\n\nOne can obtain an AAS, BA, BFA, BCA, MFA or an MPhil / PhD in graphic design. Degree programs available vary depending upon the institution, although typical U.S. graphic design jobs may require at least some form of degree.\n\nCurrent graphic designer jobs demand proficiency in one or more graphic design software programs. A common software package used in the graphic design industry is Adobe Creative Cloud. This software package contains the three main programs used by graphic designers, which are Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign. Photoshop, InDesign, and Illustrator are the industry standard applications for many graphic design positions. Another example of a common software package is CorelDraw Graphics Suite.\n\nOutside the graphic design industry, many people use Microsoft Word or Microsoft Publisher to create a layout or design. However, depending on the job at hand, most designers create the layout in either InDesign, CorelDRAW or QuarkXPress. Specifically, the designer will type or import the text in the layout program, also importing the graphics and images they created in Photoshop or Illustrator. There are a couple of reasons a designer builds a layout in this fashion:\n\n\nA web designer should understand how to work with XML, HTML, and basic web programming scripts. A print designer should understand the processes involved in printing (including, notably, offset printing) to be able to produce press-ready artwork.\n\nDesigners should be able to solve visual communication problems or challenges. In doing so, the designer must identify the communications issue, gather and analyze information related to the issue, and generate potential approaches aimed at solving the problem. Iterative prototyping and user testing can be used to determine the success or failure of a visual solution. Approaches to a communications problem are developed in the context of an audience and a media channel. Graphic designers must understand the social and cultural norms of that audience in order to develop visual solutions that are perceived as relevant, understandable and effective.\n\nGraphic designers should also have a thorough understanding of production and rendering methods. Some of the technologies and methods of production are drawing, offset printing, photography, and time-based and interactive media (film, video, computer multimedia). Frequently, designers are also called upon to manage color in different media.\n\n50 years ago, the graphic designer's portfolio was usually a black book or large binder in which samples of the artist's best printed pieces were carried to show prospective clients or employers. Printed pieces are often protected inside by being mounted on boards or slipped into Acetate sleeves.\n\nSince the 1990s, portfolios have become increasingly computer digitized and now may be entirely digitized and available on the Internet, or on CD, DVD, or via email.\n\nGraphic design relates heavily to corporate identity, the branding, and \"persona\" of a corporation. Branding originated in the late 1890s and not only did it emerge as corporate identity, but it also signified corporate quality. Many might recognize the process of \"branding\" a hot iron symbol or logo onto an animal's body to differentiate other cattle. Branding your business or any other type of asset that requires an identity does help one to be recognized in a commercialized industry. Exceptional graphic designers can easily create a brand that fits the company as well as define it through one simple logo.\n\n"}
{"id": "33673358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33673358", "title": "Industrial architecture", "text": "Industrial architecture\n\nIndustrial architecture is the design and construction of buildings serving industry. Such buildings rose in importance with the Industrial Revolution, and were some of the pioneering structures of modern architecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35944106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35944106", "title": "Irving and Casson", "text": "Irving and Casson\n\nIrving & Casson was a Boston, Massachusetts, firm of interior designers and furniture makers, founded in 1875. \n\nIts specialty was interior woodwork and mantels, but it also made furniture, primarily in the styles of the 17th, 18th and early 19th centuries. In 1914 or 1916, the firm merged with A. H. Davenport Company, a furniture company also located in Boston (both had factories in East Cambridge). After the merger, the company executed a number of commissions for Gothic Revival churches, including the chapels at Duke University and the University of Pittsburgh. The company’s last major design commission was for the interiors for the United Nations Headquarters in New York City, executed in the 1950s. Irving & Casson–A. H. Davenport Co. went out of business in 1974.\n"}
{"id": "7794855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7794855", "title": "Jeannie Elias", "text": "Jeannie Elias\n\nJeannie Elias (born August 23, 1954) is a Canadian voice actress who has featured in animated films, shows and video games.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4154431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4154431", "title": "Julia Allison", "text": "Julia Allison\n\nJulia Allison (born Julia Allison Baugher on February 28, 1981) is a former journalist, television commentator, public speaker and BRAVO star.\n\nShe has appeared as a guest commentator on television networks such as CNN, MSNBC, Fox, Fox News, NBC, Headline News, ABC and MTV, and co-hosted NBC's New York Nonstop lifestyle show \"TMI Weekly\". She co-starred on the Bravo reality show \"Miss Advised\".\n\nUpon graduating from college, she moved to New York and began working as a columnist for \"amNewYork\", after which she became editor-at-large for \"Star\" magazine. In 2007, she went on to join \"Time Out New York\" as a columnist, a position held until Summer 2009. She then became a nationally syndicated technology columnist with Tribune Media Services and had a series of columns on ELLE. Her writing has been featured in newspapers and magazines including The New York Times, New York Magazine, The Guardian UK and \"Cosmopolitan\".\n\nShe appeared on the July 2008 cover of \"WIRED\" magazine and the February 2008 cover of \"Time Out\" New York. Her work includes speaking engagements on new media and marketing, as well as assisting various companies such as Sony as brand spokesperson.\n\nShe is currently unemployed.\n\nJulia went to high school at New Trier High School. Julia attended Indiana University and received a bachelor's degree in Government from Georgetown University in 2004. During college, she wrote a dating column for the campus newspaper, \"The Hoya.\"\n\nDuring her Georgetown years Julia dated many medical students and became known as the \"Medstitute\". She also worked as a legislative correspondent for Illinois Republican congressman Mark Kirk in the 107th Congress, later, during the 2004 election, contributing political commentary for Comcast TV.\n\nAllison is originally from Wilmette, a northern suburb of Chicago. She is the daughter of Robin and Peter Baugher (president of the Chicago International Dispute Resolution Assn. (CIDRA))\n\nIn addition to her two-year employment (2007–2009) as a \"Time Out New York\" columnist, she had a monthly column in \"COED\" magazine and has written for a variety of publications, including \"Cosmopolitan\", \"Maxim\", \"New York,\" \"Teen Vogue\", \"Men's Health\", \"Seventeen\", and \"Capitol File\". She also did party coverage for the \"Huffington Post\".\n\nAllison's public speaking appearances deal with new media and marketing, and engagements include Digital Life Design (DLD) conferences in Munich, Germany, at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and, in fall 2009 at Wharton business school on female entrepreneurs. In addition, she has worked with various brands, including as a spokesperson for Sony until early 2010.\n\nAs a television pundit, Allison has made occasional appearances on Fox Business's \"Happy Hour\" and Fox News' \"Red Eye\" show, regular appearances as a commentator on Fox News segments, CNN's \"Reliable Sources\", and Headline News' \"Showbiz Tonight\" and \"Glenn Beck\" news-commentary show. Other appearances include E!, MSNBC's \"Scarborough Country\"; \"Montel Williams\", \"NY Residential\", and the Wendy Williams show, MTV's \"It's On with Alexa Chung\". Locally, media appearances include New York City's Fox 5, and Sirius radio. She co-hosted NBC New York Nonstop's \"TMI Weekly\", which is jointly owned by Next New Networks. Allison was also pictured by renowned photographer Platon on \"Wired\" magazine's cover in August 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "20226465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20226465", "title": "Leaf v International Galleries", "text": "Leaf v International Galleries\n\nLeaf v International Galleries [1950] 2 KB 86 is an English contract law case concerning misrepresentation, mistake and breach of contract, and the limits to the equitable remedy of rescission.\n\n\"Salisbury Cathedral\" by John Constable was what Ernest Louis Leaf thought he was buying on 8 March 1944 from International Galleries. International Galleries said it was a Constable. Leaf paid £85. Five years later when he tried to auction it, Leaf was told that it was not a Constable. He claimed rescission of the contract against International Galleries, to get back his money.\n\nDenning LJ held that Mr Leaf was barred because too much time had lapsed. He held that in the event of lapse of too much time between the making of the contract and the decision to rescind, the right to rescind is lost. He held there was a mistake about the quality of the subject matter because both parties believed the picture to be a Constable, and that mistake was fundamental. But it was not enough to void the contract, because there was no mistake about the essential subject matter (a painting). The painter's identity was a term of the contract, which could either be classified as a condition (breach of which allows termination of the contract) or a warranty (which allows damages only). Here the painter's identity was a condition, but after hanging it in one's house for five years it is far too late to reject the painting for breach of condition.\n\nJenkins LJ and Lord Evershed MR concurred.\n\nIn essence, the court held that there was no breach of contract, no \"operative mistake\", but there WAS misrepresentation. However, after a period of five years the right to rescission had lapsed, leaving the claimant with no remedy at all.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21528396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21528396", "title": "Lindy DeKoven", "text": "Lindy DeKoven\n\nLindy DeKoven is a novelist, television executive, producer, and California state commissioner. She was Executive Vice President of NBC overseeing movies and miniseries and then served as an Executive Producer at Paramount/CBS where she developed the comedy, \"Listen Up!\" for CBS Television as well as, television pilots, miniseries, and made-for-TV movies. \n\nAt NBC, DeKoven ordered to production: \"Merlin\", \"Gulliver’s Travels\", \"The Odyssey\", \"The Temptations\", \"\", \"A Woman of Independent Means\", \"The 60’s\", \"The 70’s\", \"Asteroid\", \"Noah's Ark\", \"The Beast\", \"Crime & Punishment\", \"Pandora's Clock\", \"The NBC Monday Night Movie\" female-teen franchise featuring \"Beverly Hills, 90210\" stars, such as Tori Spelling, Tiffani Amber Thiessen, Brian Austin Green, Michelle Williams, and Jennie Garth, which was among the first television programs to feature soundtracks by new artists.\n\nDeKoven is a gubernatorial appointee to the California Commission on the Status of Women which she chaired, the California State Parks and Recreation Commission, and the California State Film Commission. She served on the Board of the California Governor and First Lady's Conference on Women and is featured in Jennifer Siebel Newsom's documentary, \"Miss Representation\"\n\nDeKoven is the author of two novels, \"Primetime Princess\" (2013) and \"The Secret Life of Wishful Thinking\" (2015) She is also the Founder and Chair of \"The Listen Up America Project\" in collaboration with Senator Barbara Boxer's \"PAC For a Change.\" www.barbaraboxer.com/listenup \n\nDeKoven was director of network television development at Walt Disney Television, followed by vice president of creative affairs for Alan Landsburg Productions. She worked for Leslie Moonves at Warner Bros and then NBC, under Don Ohlmeyer. Later she was an executive producer at Paramount/CBS. \nDeKoven became vice president, movies and miniseries at the Warner Brothers Television. She was responsible for the development of all long-form projects for network and pay/cable television. \n\nDeKoven was executive vice president of NBC Entertainment and NBC Productions in charge of movies and miniseries. Later, as executive producer, her notable projects included \"Listen Up!\", a situation comedy starring Jason Alexander for Paramount/CBS, and the pilot, \"Mermaids\", starring Sela Ward, for Touchstone/ABC and \"Sweet Potato Queens\" starring Delta Burke for The WB. \n\nDeKoven was appointed by Governor Schwarzenegger to the California Commission on the Status of Women, which she chaired. She also served on the California State Parks and Recreation Commission and is currently on the California Film Commission. DeKoven is featured in Jennifer Siebel Newsom's documentary, \"Miss Representation\"\n\nDeKoven's novel, \"Primetime Princess\" was featured on CBS' \"The Talk\" It was optioned by The Tannenbaum Company and CBS Studios. \"The Secret Life of Wishful Thinking\" was published February 2015. \n\nDeKoven was featured in The Hollywood Reporter's Women in Entertainment - \"Fifty Most Powerful Women\" issues from 1995-1999. \n\nDeKoven was appointed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to the California Film Commission. She also served on the California State Parks & Recreation Commission after Clint Eastwood and Bobby Shriver’s terms had expired. Schwarzenegger re-appointed DeKoven to the California Commission on the Status of Women , where she served as chair. She also served on the Board of the California Governor and First Lady’s Conference on Women., as well as the board of directors of Los Angeles Leukemia & Lymphoma Society.\n\nDeKoven served on the board of directors of the Koreh L.A. Literacy Program , as well as the board of trustees at the Greater Los Angeles Zoo Association. She is a past member of the Museum of Television Executive Roundtable, The AFI Second Decade Council, The AFI Women’s Directing Workshop Advisory Committee, Hollywood Radio & Television Society Board Member, and Women In Film Executive Committee.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48429375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48429375", "title": "List of firsts in architecture", "text": "List of firsts in architecture\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16716141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16716141", "title": "Long poem", "text": "Long poem\n\nThe long poem is a literary genre including all poetry of considerable length. Though the definition of a long poem is vague and broad, the genre includes some of the most important poetry ever written.\n\nWith more than 220000 (100000 shloka or couplets) verses and about 1.8 million words in total, the \"Mahābhārata\" is the longest epic poem in the world. It is roughly ten times the size of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" combined, roughly five times longer than Dante's \"Divine Comedy\", and about four times the size of the \"Ramayana\" and Ferdowsi's \"Shahnameh\". \n\nIn English, \"Beowulf\" and Chaucer's \"Troilus and Criseyde\" are among the first important long poems. The long poem thrived and gained new vitality in the hands of experimental Modernists in the early 1900s and has continued to evolve through the 21st century.\n\nThe long poem has evolved into an umbrella term, encompassing many subgenres, including epic, verse novel, verse narrative, lyric sequence, lyric series, and collage/montage. \n\nLynn Keller describes the long poem as being a poem that is simply \"book length,\" but perhaps the simplest way to define \"long poem\" is this: a long poem is long enough that its bulk carries meaning. Susan Stanford Friedman describes the long poem as a genre in which all poems that are not considered to be short can be a considered a part. These overly inclusive definitions, though problematic, serve the breadth of the long poem, and have fueled its adaptation as a voice for cultural identity among marginalized persons in Modern and Contemporary poetry. Only a broad definition can apply to the genre as a whole. In general, a poem is a \"long poem\" when its length enhances and expands upon the thematic, creative, and formal weight of the poem.\n\nThough the term \"long poem\" may be elusive to define, the term is now finally getting the attention it deserves. The genre has gained importance both as a literary form, and as a means of collective expression. Lynn Keller solidifies the genre's importance in her essay, \"Pushing the Limits,\" by stating that the long poem will always be recognized as a notable genre of importance in early twentieth-century American literature.\n\nA long poem often functions to tell a \"tale of the tribe,\" or a story that encompasses a whole culture's values and history. Ezra Pound coined the phrase, referring to his own long poem \"The Cantos.\" The long poem's length and scope can contain concerns of a magnitude that a shorter poem cannot address. The poet may see himself or herself as the \"bearer of the light,\" to use Langston Hughes' term, who leads the journey through a culture's story, or as the one who makes known the light already within the tribe. The poet may also serve as a poet-prophet with special insight for their own tribe.\n\nIn Modern and Contemporary long poems the \"tale of the tribe\" has frequently been retold by culturally, economically, and socially marginalized persons. Thus, pseudo-epic narratives, such as Derek Walcott's \"Omeros,\" have emerged to occupy voids where post colonial persons, racially oppressed persons, women, and other people who have been ignored by classic epics, and denied a voice in the prestigious genre.\n\nVarious poets have undertaken a \"revisionary mythopoesis\" in the long poem genre. Since the genre has roots in forms that traditionally exclude poets who have minimal cultural authority, the long poem can be a \"fundamental re-vision,\" and function as a discourse for those poets (Friedman). These \"re-visions\" may include neglected characters, deflation of traditionally celebrated characters, and a general reworking of standards set by the literary tradition. This revision is noted especially by feminist critical work that analyzes how women are given a new voice and story through the transformation of a previously \"masculine\" form.\n\nLynn Keller notes that the long poem enabled modernists to include sociological, anthropological, and historical material. Many long poems deal with history not in the revisionary sense but as a simple re-telling in order to prove a point. Then there are those who go a step further and recite a place's or people's history in order to teach. Like revisionary mythopoesis, they may attempt to make a point or demonstrate a new perspective by exaggerating or editing certain parts of a history.\n\nLong poem authors sometimes find great difficulty in making the entire poem coherent and/or deciding on a way to end it or wrap it up. Fear of failure is also a common concern, that perhaps the poem will not have as great an impact as intended. Since many long poems take the author's lifetime to complete, this concern is especially troubling to anyone who attempts the long poem. Ezra Pound is an example of this dilemma, with his poem \"The Cantos\". As the long poem's roots lie in the epic, authors of the long poem often feel an intense pressure to make their long poems the defining literature of the national identity or the shared identity of a large group of people. The American long poem is under pressure from its European predecessors, revealing a special variety of this anxiety. Walt Whitman tried to achieve this idea of characterizing the American identity in \"Song of Myself\". Thus, when the author feels that their work fails to reach such a caliber or catalyze a change within the intended audience, they might consider the poem a failure as a whole.\n\nPoets attempting to write a long poem often struggle to find the right form or combination of forms to use. Since the long poem itself cannot be strictly defined by one certain form, a challenge lies in choosing the most effective form.\n\nInclusivity\n\nThe long poem has been considered a problematic genre for women writers. Its roots in epic make the genre appear to be non-inclusive of female writers. This is due to the epic's long history of being primarily a realm of writing for men.\n\nLyric intensity\n\nSome critics, most emphatically Edgar Allan Poe, consider poetry as a whole to be more closely tied to the lyric. They complain that the emotional intensity involved within a lyric is impossible to maintain in the length of the long poem, thus rendering the long poem impossible or inherently a failure.\n\nIn his article \"The long poem: sequence or consequence?\" Ted Weiss quotes a passage from M. L. Rozenthal and Sally M. Gall's \"The Modern Poetic Sequence\" inspired by Poe's sentiments, \"What we term a long poem is, in fact, merely a succession of brief ones... It is needless to demonstrate that a poem is such, only inasmuch as it intensely excites, by elevating, the soul; and all intense excitements are, through a psychal-necessity, brief. For this reason, at least one half of the Paradise Lost is essentially prose—a succession of poetical excitements interspersed, inevitably,with corresponding depressions—the whole being deprived, through the extremities of its length, of the vastly important artistic element, totality, or unity, of effect. In short, a poem to be truly a poem should not exceed a half hour's reading. In any case, no unified long poem is possible.\"\n\nMultivocality\n\nOne genre theory claims that once a poem takes on multiple voices, it becomes a novel. Many long poems do make use of multiple voices, while still maintaining all the element of a poem, and therefore cause even more confusion when trying to define their genre.\n\nNaming and subgenres\n\nCritic Lynn Keller also expresses concerns about the genre in her essay \"Pushing the Limits.\" Keller states that because of the debate over and prevalence of subgenres and forms within the overarching genre of long poem, critics and readers tend to choose one subgenre, typically the epic form, as being the \"authentic\" representative form of the genre. Therefore, this causes the other equally important subgenres to be subject to criticism for not adhering to the more \"authentic\" form of long poem. Other critics of the long poem sometimes hold the belief that with long poems, there is no \"middle ground.\" They view long poems as ultimately being either epics or lyrics.\n\nMany critics refer to the long poem by various adjective-filled subgenre names that often are made of various components found within the poem. These can lead to confusion about what a long poem is exactly. Below you will find a list describing the most common (and agreed upon) subgenre categories.\n\nThe long poem genre has several advantages over prose and strictly lyric poetry. The most obvious difference between the long poem and other literary genres is the sheer difficulty of composing a long work entirely in verse. Poets who undertake the long poem face the serious problem of creating a work that is consistently poetic, sometimes taking strict forms and carrying them through the whole poem. However, the poets who do choose the long poem turn this liability into an advantage—if a poet can write a long poem, they prove themselves to be worthy. The very difficulty gives the genre an implicit prestige. Long poems have been among the most influential texts in the world since Homer. By writing a long poem, a poet participates in this tradition and must prove their virtuosity by living up to the tradition. As discussed below, the traditionally difficult long poem's prestige can be revised to serve radical purposes.\n\nAdditional benefits of the long poem:\n\n\nCritic Lynn Keller voices the concerns of female poets writing within the genre of the long poem. In her essay \"Pushing the Limits\", she discusses the long poem in regards to its female contributors, a group often forgotten or marginalized in favor of the more privileged white male author. Not only does Keller discuss women and their place in the authorship of the long poem, but she also talks about the tendency of the genre to forget authors who are not white and male, therefore leaving out minority writers, foreign writers, and writers of different sexual orientation.\n\nKeller explains the long poem as being a \"generic hybrid\". By this, Keller means that the form, in large part because of its indefinable nature, gives authors creative leeway to mold and form the genre of long poem to fit their creative needs. The long poem's flexibility should not only be open to include women and minority writers, but should be a haven in which these writers can use their writing to voice their identity, a primary topic for the long poem genre.\n\nAs stated above in \"Concerns and Controversies\", many female writers have felt that they have no place within the long poem genre because of its epic roots. The epic is a historically masculine genre and has not welcomed female writers or other authors who are not male and white. The long poem is often understood as the epic reborn, making it seem like a genre inaccessible to women. Women who did participate within the long poem and epic forms were often highly criticized or overlooked until recently, as there has been increasing interest in such authors as H.D.\n\nKeller also discusses a primary critic of the long poem, Kamboureli, in her essay. Kamboureli's stance is that long poem's readers and contributors should not preference one form of long poem over another. To extend this idea, it is also equally important to say that one type of author within this genre should not be privileged over another. The textual \"betweeness\", an idea coined by Kamboureli and discussed in Keller's essay, provides a place where writers can create their art in a genre that is by its nature less restrictive than other poetic forms. This lack of restriction should be the very reason that the genre should be open to all. Its hybridisms and variety will only be enhanced by the presence of women and other writers.\n\nKeller states that this new perspective on long poem and reexamination of forgotten long poems has revived the form as a realm of possibilities for upcoming female writers. Female writers are seeing the long poem as a genre that should not only be open and inclusive to them, but also as a genre that theoretically could benefit the female writer as much if not more than the male writers the form previously favored. Women writers are now able to combat the \"dominant traditions\" at play within the long poem genre to mold the genre into their own, creating what critic Susan Friedman terms a \"re-vision\" of the form.\n\nElizabeth Barrett Browning was one of the first female authors to attempt an epic poem. In her article \"Written in blood: the art of mothering epic in the poetry of Elizabeth Barrett Browning\", Olivia Gatti Taylor explores Browning's attempt to write an authentically feminine epic poem titled \"Aurora Leigh\". Taylor posits that Browning began this process with the structure of her poem, \"While earlier epics like the \"Aeneid\" and \"Paradise Lost\" have twelve books, Aurora Leigh was conceived as a nine-book epic; thus, the very structure of the work reveals its gestational nature. According to Sandra Donaldson, Barrett Browning's own experience at age forty-three of \"giving birth and nurturing a child\" greatly influenced her poetry \"for the better\", deepening her \"sensitivity\".\n\nThe most important \"parent genre\" to the long poem is the epic. As stated on the page of the main article on the epic, \"An epic is a lengthy, revered narrative poem, ordinarily concerning a serious subject containing details of heroic deeds and events significant to a culture or nation.\" The term \"long poem\" includes all the generic expectations of epic and the reactions against those expectations. Many long poem subgenres share characteristics with the epic, including: telling the tale of a tribe or a nation, quests, history (either recitation or re-telling in order to learn from the past), a hero figure, or prophecies.\n\nOther subgenres of the long poem include lyric sequence, series, collage, and verse-novel. What unites each of these subgenres under the heading of long poem is that their length has importance in their meaning. Each subgenre, however, is unique in its style, manner of composition, voice, narration, and proximity to outside genres.\n\nSequence poetry uses the chronological linking of poems to construct meaning, as each lyric builds on the poems previous to it. Examples include Louise Glück's \"The Wild Iris\", and older sonnet cycles, such as Sir Philip Sidney's \"Astrophel and Stella\" or Dante's \"Vita Nuova\". Serial lyrics similarly depend on the juxtaposition and dialogue between individual lyrics to build a greater depth of meaning. Narrative poems rely heavily on\n\nOften, these subgenres are blended, blurred or overlapped to create second-generation subgenres. The blurring between the lines of the subgenres is what makes the long poem so hard to define, but it also marks the growing creativity in the use of the form.\n\nCritic Joseph Conte describes the epic as a long poem that \"has to have grand voice and purpose. . . it has to say something big.\" Lynn Keller describes one of the epic's aspects as including a \"quasi-circular quest-journey structure\" that she says is present in the long poem \"Song of Myself\" by Whitman. Yet that long poem, Keller notes, does not have a \"specified end toward which the poem or speaker is directed,\" unlike a more traditional long poem. Though long poems do have roots in the epic form, that does not mean long poems that are epic-like are completely epic. A second example of long poems distancing themselves from the traditional epic form is seen in \"Helen In Egypt\" by H.D. Though traditional epics feature physical quests or journeys, \"Helen In Egypt\" is about the psychological journey of Helen.\n\nOther characteristics of the epic include a hero figure, myths, and quests for the characters. Many such characteristics are seen in various long poems, but with some changes. For example, \"Helen In Egypt\" brings mythic revision, or revisionary mythopoesis, into play. Even though it includes the myth from the epic, the revised telling of the myth makes the long poem stand out as its own form. Additionally, one cannot look at the epic as a single, unified form of inspiration for long poems. As Keller points out, certain long poems can have roots in very specific epics instead of the overall epic category.\n\nThe long poem \"Omeros\" by Derek Walcott has drawn mixed criticism on whether it should or should not be tied to the traditional epic form. Those against that idea say that the poem's story is not as important as those found in traditional epics. \"Omeros\" tells the tale of fishermen in the Caribbean fighting over and lusting after a waitress instead of a typically heroic tale of battles and quests. On the other side of the argument lies the point that it is important to keep in mind that \"Omeros\" has ties to the epic genre, if only as a contrast. By putting more simple characters in the forefront as opposed to warriors, Walcott revises the traditional epic form, which these critics say is something to notice as opposed to cutting off \"Omeros\" from any ties to the epic whatsoever. Furthermore, these critics say that one cannot ignore the epic influence on the poem since its characters' names are taken from Homer. In \"Omeros\" there are distinct elements obviously influenced by traditional epics, such as a trip to the underworld, talk of a muse, etc.\n\nIn interviews, Walcott has both affirmed and denied that \"Omeros\" is tied to the epic form. In one interview he stated that it was a type of epic poem, but in another interview he said the opposite, stating as part of his evidence that there are no epic-like battles in his poem. In \"Omeros\" Walcott implies that he has never read Homer, which is probably untrue based on the character names derived from Homer. Walcott's denial of his poem being tied too heavily to the epic form may stem from his concern that people might only think of it as being an epic-influenced poem instead of transcending the epic genre.\n\nBased on this criticism of \"Omeros\" it is clear that the generic identity of a long poem greatly contributes to its meaning. Because long poems are influenced by many more strictly defined genres, a long poem revising strict generic rules creates striking contrast with epic-genre expectations.\n\nKeller also notes that she agrees with critic Susan Friedman when Friedman expresses her concern that the long poem associated with the epic has been \"the quintessential male territory whose boundaries enforce women's status as outsiders on the landscape of poetry.\" Considering that there are many long poem authors that are women, one cannot fully associate the long poem with the epic genre.\n\nHowever, the typical exclusion of women in the epic tradition is for many female authors what makes the long poem an appealing form for laying cultural claim to the epic.\n\nControl of or at least inclusion in the creation of a cultural epic is important because the traditional epic poem like \"The Odyssey\" or Virgil’s \"Aeneid\" is, at its core, a written history. Written history defines the good and the bad of a culture, the winners and losers, and the author of that history controls the very future by manipulating the knowledge of later generations. For Friedman to deny epic associations to the long poem because they are sometimes written by women is to counter the efforts of many female long poets.\n\nIf the long poem is considered an epic or invokes an epic in its length as many critics and readers aver then breaching its traditional exclusivity by using the epic to tell the story of marginalized peoples such as women rather than the victors is essentially an opportunity for the poet to rewrite history. Walcott’s \"Omeros\" is an excellent example of a long poem recording the untold history of a marginalized people.\n\nLikewise H.D.’s revision of the story of Helen of Troy in \"Helen\" is an attempt to exonerate women from the blame of the Trojan War. In this sense, form inexorably serves the function and meaning of the poem by indicating to the reader that the poem is, if not an epic, epic-like and therefore a history. For some female authors using the well known form of an epic is a way to legitimize their stories, but by slightly altering the epic tradition they also indicate that the traditional way is unacceptable and insufficient for their purposes. Embodying the modernist dilemma, the long poem as epic often contains the seeming belief in the futility of tradition and history paired with the obvious dependence on them.\n\nA lyric sequence is a collection of shorter lyric poems that interact to create a coherent, larger meaning. The lyric sequence often includes poems unified by a theme. A defining characteristic of this subgenre is that each lyric enhances the meaning of the other lyrics in the work, creating an enhanced collective metaphor, that opens the lyric sequence to unique adaptations of dialogue and other narrative/theatrical characteristics.\nCritic Lynn Keller lends some insight to the lyric sequence by placing it in opposition to the epic: “At the opposite end of the critical spectrum are the treatments of the long poem that do not consider issues of quest, hero, community, nation, history and the like, and instead regard the form as essentially lyric.\n\nThe lyric series is a genre of poetry in which the seriality of short (but connective) lyric poems enhances the long poem's meaning. Seriality may contribute narrative coherence or thematic development, and it is often read in terms of the poem's productive process, i.e. how the poem \"produces its own experience\"(Shoptaw). Each lyric poem is distinct and has meaning in itself, yet it functions as an integral part of the series, giving it a greater meaning as within the long poem as well.\n\nDeborah Sinnreich-Levi and Ian Laurie examine the work of Oton de Grandson in the lyric series, or \"ballad series\" form. Grandson wrote several sets of short love lyrics, using the series form for narrative coherence and thematic construction, as well as to examine different aspects of a single narrative. George Oppen's \"Discrete Series\" relates its poetic seriality to the mathematic concept of a discrete series. Langston Hughes' \"Montage of a Dream Deferred\" qualifies as a serial lyric as well as a montage.\n\nThe best-known and most highly regarded example of a collage long poem is T. S. Eliot's \"The Waste Land\". Critic Philip Cohen describes Eliot's use of the collage in his article \"The Waste Land, 1921: Some Developments of the Manuscript's Verse\":\n\n\"Eliot gradually created a more modernist poem, one which resembles a cubist collage: satiric narratives were abandoned in favor of first of dramatic poetry and then of a bold amalgamation of genres. The speakers shifted from omniscient narrators to a variety of separate-person voices and then to different voices of one shadowy character.\"\n\nThe collage combines seemingly disparate parts or \"fragments\" of different voices, pieces of mythology, popular song, speeches, and other utterances in an attempt to create a somewhat cohesive whole.\n\nThe best known Bengali long poem is JAKHAM (The Wound) written by Malay Roy Choudhury of India during the famous Hungryalist movement in 1960s.\n\nA montage is similar to a collage in that it consists of many voices, most famously portrayed in Langston Hughes' \"Montage of a Dream Deferred\". The poet provides a comprehensive portrait of 20th century Harlem through the use of numerous different voices and thus creates a cohesive whole through this fragmentary lens.\n\nWhat is perhaps the most debatable characteristic of this collage/montage form is the question of what is added to the message or content of the poem by using a more fragmented view. This debate is clearly visible within Langston Hughes' \"Montage\" in the question of who the primary voice belongs to and what is added by having Harlem shown through multiple people, as opposed to Hughes simply speaking from his own understanding of what makes Harlem.\n\nA verse narrative, as one might expect, is simply a narrative poem, a poem that tells a story. What is interesting about this subgenre is that owing to its place in the flexible category of long poem, the verse-narrative may have disrupted convention by telling its story in both poem and narrative. This combination broadens the scope of both genres, lending the poem's depth that may be lacking in the other subgenres, yet also a lyrical voice that defines it as poetry. For an example of this, one might turn to \"Gilgamesh\", which encompasses both the subgenres Epic and Verse-Narrative.\n\nAs one of the main subgenres, Verse-Narrative gets the least attention because it so effortlessly overlaps the other subgenres. It does not necessarily have the components of an Epic, nor the lyricism and shifting scope of a Lyric Sequence or a Lyric Series, nor the close relation to narrative of Verse Novel. It exists for critics generally as an accepted part of the long poem Tradition.\n\nThe Greek poet Vasileios Vasileiadis(1958-) with his two long poems <Blind to see the Darkness> and <Point Zero> is an example for the Verse-Narrative long poetry.\n\nThe critic Lilach Lachman describes the Romantic long poem as one that, \"questioned the coherence of the conventional epic's plot, its logic of time and space, and its laws of interconnecting the narrative through action.\" Examples of the Romantic long poem is Keats' long poem Hyperion: A Fragment (1820), William Wordsworth's Recluse (Including the Prelude (1850), and The Excursion), and Percy Bysshe Shelley's Prometheus Unbound.\n\nThe Romance long poem contains many of the same components of the Romance Lyric. Michael O'Neil suggests that \"much romantic poetry is torn out of its own despair\" and, in fact, can exist as the tremulous fusion between \"self-trust and self-doubt.\"\n\nMeditations are reflective thought poems. Like the Montage and the Series subgenres, Meditations can be somewhat fragmented, yet their connectivity is what makes the long poem a coherent and cohesive idea. This subgenre is based on meditations (or thoughts). Wallace Stevens believes, as do other writers in this genre, that the work does not rely on the use of multiple voices.\n\nIn her essay \"The Twentieth Century Long Poem,\" Lynn Keller states that a more philosophical influence on these meditative long poems deals with relating imagination to reality, specifically in long poems by Wallace Stevens. Keller notes, \"Uninterested in American landscape, American history, modern mechanical triumphs, or the urban scene, his process-oriented long poems are speculative philosophical works exploring the relation of imagination to reality and the imagination's role in compensating for the loss of religious belief.\"\n\nW. H. Auden's \"New Year Letter\" is an example of a long-form meditative poem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50462613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50462613", "title": "Magna glossatura", "text": "Magna glossatura\n\nThe Collectanea, or Magna glossatura as it came to be known, is a collection of commentaries on the Psalms and the Pauline Epistles written by Peter the Lombard between 1139 and 1141.\n\nThe \"Magna glossatura\" is a set of glosses written beside passages from the Latin Vulgate Bible. These glosses were written by Peter the Lombard during his teaching career and before he became the bishop of Paris (1159–1160). His gloss of Psalms and his gloss of the Pauline Epistles (referred to as the \"Collectanea\") were compiled and became a part of the official gloss on the Bible. This collection of glosses would take on the name of \"Magna glossatura\" and would, during the 12th century, replace the \"Glossa ordinaria\" as the most frequently studied and copied exegetical gloss of the Bible. His other works included the \"Libri Quatuor Sententiarum\" (or the \"Four Books of Sentences\") and his commentaries in the \"glossa Ordinaria\". The \"Magna glossatura\", along with other systematic glosses, would have been developed at theological schools such as Laon and St.-Victor of Paris, and would have been used for the research conducted by theologians as well as the teaching of students in biblical exegesis.\n\nThe layout of text in the \"Magna glossatura\", is written in the \"intercisum\" (or intercut) format, which was developed by Peter Lombard. It was developed as a way of distinguishing scripture from the commentaries by writing the biblical verses in a larger script and on alternate lines next to the commentary, which would be ordered into columns. Blocks of scripture were then placed on the left edge of the columns to balance the biblical verses with the commentary. The \"intercisum\" method, from ca.1160, began to be applied to glosses on all the books of the Bible. This layout also gave glosses and their commentators greater influence in their relationship with the Word of God, as these glosses played a larger role in theological books by forming an essential reading in connection with the biblical text.\n\nPeter Lombard's gloss of the Pauline Epistles features not only commentaries concerning the traditional mode of reflection on the Christian faith, which regards the biblical text as \"sacra pagina\", but also commentaries of systematic theology. As a result, Lombard writes on specific theological themes which deal with issues such as the nature of the Trinity. Lombard's glosses also include references to the works of other ecclesiastical figures and theologians, Ambrose and Augustine to name a few. The biblical commentaries and ideas present in the \"Magna glossatura\" are also present in the various sermons given by Peter Lombard to his peers and to his cathedral's congregation.\n\nWorks of Peter Lombard\n\nMagna glossatura Stanford\n"}
{"id": "5793294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5793294", "title": "Missoni", "text": "Missoni\n\nMissoni is a high-end Italian fashion house based in Varese, and known for its colorful knitwear designs. The company was founded by Ottavio (\"Tai\") and Rosita Missoni in 1953.\n\nThe business was founded in 1953, when Ottavio and Rosita Missoni set up a small knitwear workshop in Gallarate, Italy. They presented their first collection under the Missoni label in Milan in 1958. The business prospered, with the support of fashion editor Anna Piaggi, then at \"Arianna\" magazine. Rosita met the French stylist Emmanuelle Khanh in New York in 1965, which led to a collaboration and a new collection the following year. In April 1967, they were invited to show at the Pitti Palace in Florence. Rosita told the models to remove their bras, supposedly because they were the wrong color, and showed through the thin lamé blouses. The material became transparent under the lights and caused a sensation. The Missonis were not invited back the following year, but the business grew; a new factory in Sumirago was built in 1969. Missoni designs were championed in the USA by Diana Vreeland, editor of American \"Vogue\", and a Missoni boutique was opened in Bloomingdales.\n\nMissoni reached the peak of its influence in the fashion world in the early 1970s (though has since been the subject of revivals in interest as new generations of fashion writers discovered the appeal of its core knitwear). Tai Missoni then became more interested in other projects, designing costumes for La Scala, carpets and tapestries. Rosita Missoni lost interest in fashion in the 1990s and was succeeded by her daughter Angela in 1998 while Rosita took over Missoni Home.\n\nOn 13 September 2011, Missoni made headlines briefly when Target Stores offered low-cost variants of Missoni products in their stores and on their website. Most items sold out within 24 hours, there were long queues outside stores and the Target website was overloaded. Some items appeared at higher prices on eBay within hours and Target did not restock.\n\nIn February 2014, Angela Missoni hired Rossella Jardini, former creative director of Moschino, as a consultant.\n\nIn 2017, Jennifer Lopez teamed up with Missoni along with Women’s Cancer Research Fund and Saks Fifth Avenue to set a fund raise for cancer research. Lopez will help promote the $35 limited-edition Missoni tees, and the profits will go to 12 different cancer charities.\n\nMissoni brands include Missoni Sport, which was initially licensed out, brought in-house in January 2002, and is now discontinued; and M Missoni, a less expensive line introduced in 1998, manufactured and distributed by Marzotto.\n\nMissoni Home has its roots in furnishing fabrics produced in 1981 in collaboration with Rosita's family firm. They launched their first perfume in 1982, although the license is now held by Estée Lauder.\n\nIn November 2005, Missoni and the Rezidor Hotel Group signed an agreement to create Hotel Missoni, with plans to have 30 hotels open or in development by 2012. The centrally located property in Edinburgh is patronised by artists attending the Edinburgh Festival and other arts events held in the city. The agreement ceased in 2014.\n\nIn 2017, Missoni Baia, Missoni's first venture into residential real estate development, broke ground in Miami, Florida. The 249 unit complex will be completed by the end of 2020. \n\nIn 1996 the Missonis transferred control of the business to their three children: Vittorio Missoni became marketing director; Luca (born 1956) was menswear designer until 2008; Angela (born 1958) was womenswear designer, and took over menswear in 2008 when Luca became responsible for the Archive and Events.\n\nMargherita Missoni used to both design accessories and model for Missoni as well. Today she runs her own line of children's clothing, which is not associated with Missoni SpA. \n\nOn 4 January 2013 a plane carrying Vittorio Missoni, then CEO of Missoni, went missing off the coast of Venezuela. On 27 June 2013, the Venezuelan government announced that remains of the aircraft had been found north of Los Roques archipelago. Vittorio's body was recovered along with those of the other passengers.\n"}
{"id": "16693225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16693225", "title": "Mitchell Rales", "text": "Mitchell Rales\n\nMitchell Rales (born 1956) is an American billionaire businessman, and a collector of modern and contemporary art. He has been a director of Danaher Corporation since 1983. In collaboration with his wife Emily Wei Rales, an art historian and curator, he has established Glenstone, a private museum in Potomac, Maryland, which presents exhibitions of their collection of art.\n\nRales was born in 1956 in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. Raised in a Jewish family, Rales is one of four sons of Norman and Ruth Rales. Norman Rales was raised in an orphanage, the Hebrew Orphan Asylum in New York City, and later became a successful businessman, who sold his building supply company in Washington, D.C. to his employees in what was the first employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) transaction in the U.S. Norman Rales was also a philanthropist, having founded the Norman and Ruth Rales Foundation and the Ruth Rales Jewish Family Service. Rales has three brothers: Joshua, Steven, and Stewart.\n\nRales grew up in Bethesda, Maryland and graduated from Walt Whitman High School in 1974. As captain of both the high school football and baseball teams, Rales was an outstanding high school athlete. He earned a degree in business administration at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio in 1978 and was a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity.\n\nIn 1979, Rales left his father's real estate firm to found Equity Group Holdings, with his brother, Steven M. Rales. Using junk bonds, they bought a diversified line of businesses. In 1978, they changed the name to Diversified Mortgage Investors, and then to Danaher, in 1984.\n\nIn the 1980s, the AM side of radio station WGMS was sold off to Washington, D.C., venture capitalists Steven and Mitchell Rales, who converted the music station into the first frequency for WTEM, a sports-talk station, in 1992. In 1988, he made a hostile takeover bid for Interco, Inc, which was, at the time, the nation's largest manufacturer of furniture and men's shoes (owning both Converse shoes and the Ethan Allen furniture). He later ended the bid after five months with a profit of $60 million.\n\nIn 1995, Rales and his brother founded Colfax, a Richmond, Virginia industrial pumps manufacturer, which had an initial public offering in May 2008.\n\nRales has expressed a strong desire to spend his money philanthropy, saying to the Washington Post in 2018, \"When we go, there's not going to be money bestowed on children and grandchildren in any meaningful way. This is about reallocating the money we had the good fortune of making to other causes.\" Rales is on the board of the National Gallery of Art and is a former board member of the Hirshhorn Museum. \n\nRales and his wife, Emily Wei Rales, developed and financed Glenstone, a contemporary art museum in Potomac, Maryland. The museum first opened in 2006 and displays the Rales's collection of post-World War II art, including paintings, sculptures, and both indoor and outdoor installations. A major $219 million expansion to Glenstone was opened in 2018 that increased both the gallery space and the wooded land surrounding the galleries. The museum is free and open to the public via online booking.\n\nRales has been married twice:\n\nHe lives in Potomac, Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "48064155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48064155", "title": "Musikene", "text": "Musikene\n\nMusikene or the Higher School of Music of the Basque Country (Basque - \"Euskal Herriko Goi-Mailako Musika Ikastegia\"; Spanish - \"Centro Superior de Música del País Vasco\") is a higher education music school located in San Sebastián, in the Basque region of Spain. It was founded in 2001 by the Basque Government through the establishment of a private foundation.\n\nThe school was housed on the Miramar Palace. In 2012, the construction of a new building, which houses the school since the 2016-2017 academic year, began next to the San Sebastián campus of the University of the Basque Country.\n\n"}
{"id": "38400385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38400385", "title": "Nidia Bustos", "text": "Nidia Bustos\n\nNidia Bustos is a Nicaraguan theater director, community organizer and cultural activist. She founded the theater organization MECATE that meanwhile consists of more than 80 theater and music groups.\n\nBustos was born in 1952. In 1980 she started her life-work, MECATE, a theater organization the grew out to be a nationwide organization with more than 80 theater and music groups.\n\nAfter the era of suppression by the Somoza-regime (1936-1979), the social structures of little farmers (\"campesinos\") had disappeared. With the foundation of the theater organization, Bustos has the objective to work at the reconstruction of the country by developing more social cohesion between the rural communities. MECATE (\"Movimiento de Expresión Campesina Artística y Teatral\") can be translated to \"Campesino Movement of Rural Artistic and Theatrical Expression\".\n\nWith her organization Bustos stages plays and songs, and publishes stories and poems. On stage she uses costumes and theatrical property that originate from the cultural tradition of the \"campesinos\". Furthermore, she organizes workshops, meetings and exchanges.\n\nThe performances induce artistic discussions on themes like replanting, malaria prevention, agricultural techniques, land speculation, and the consequences of trade pacts.\n\nBustos is also a member of the foundation Luciérnaga, which translated means \"firefly\". This is a nonprofit organization that arranges audiovisual means for educational objectives.\n\nIn 2011 Bustos was honored with a Prince Claus Award from the Netherlands in the category \"Breaking taboos\".\n\nIn 1982, a first documentary was on MECATE was recorded, called \"Otro Gallo Nos Canta\". The documentary was produced by Félix Zurita. The same year Zurita produced another documentary on the organization, called \"Perú, ni leche ni gloria\". Both documentaries have a duration of 50 minutes. In 1986 another documentary appeared, called \"How Campesinos Are Creating Theater and Art in Revolutionary Nicaragua\".\n\nIn 2005 Zurita made a short theater film of 50 minutes. In this film the complete cast was formed by members of MECATE.\n"}
{"id": "5782324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5782324", "title": "North American Nature Photography Association", "text": "North American Nature Photography Association\n\nThe North American Nature Photography Association or NANPA is an organization dedicated to photography of nature. Its headquarters were in Wheat Ridge, Colorado, and are now in Alma, Illinois. Established in 1994, the association has 2,500 members. Several categories of membership are available, including discounts for students. The association annually sponsors a variety of activities, such as regional events, meetups, workshops, tours, and webinars throughout the United States. The NANPA Foundation [www.nanpafoundation.org], established in 1997, awards scholarships, operates blinds for wildlife photography, and organizes funds in memory of deceased photographers and others. NANPA also markets books of interest to members, including those by members, through Amazon.com. \n\nIn 2006, NANPA initiated June 15 as Nature Photography Day. This designated day was spearheaded by the association’s History Committee. Its purpose is to promote the art and science of nature photography. NANPA looks to esthetic elements and practical ones, too. Photography has been used to rescue animals, plants, and habitats locally and worldwide. Participation in Nature Photography Day has since extended worldwide. June 15 is a day that encourages exploring, with a camera, the natural world within walking, hiking, biking, or rowing distance--to avoid leaving a carbon footprint. Among the numerous ways to celebrate the day is to experiment with taking photographs of a familiar subject, turning the ordinary into something extraordinary. NANPA also encourages participants to learn about the experiences of nature photographers--legends of the past and today. \n\nNANPA's Summits, begun in 1995, bring together nature photography professionals from throughout the continent and the world. Recent Summits have been held in Jacksonville, Florida (2013 and 2017); and San Diego, California (2015). The event is scheduled for Las Vegas in 2019. Each Summit features major presentations by distinguished people in the nature photography profession, an awards celebration, a trade show, portfolio reviews, workshops (breakout sessions), and vendor demonstrations. Lightning talks were a recent feature at Summits: a series of six-minute presentations by NANPA members on techniques, anecdotes, and related information. \n"}
{"id": "41765281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41765281", "title": "Octavian Smigelschi", "text": "Octavian Smigelschi\n\nOctavian or Octav Smigelschi (last name also Smigelski, Smighelschi, Szmigelszki, or Szmigelschi; ; March 21, 1866 – November 10, 1912) was an Austro-Hungarian painter and printmaker, one of the leading culturally Romanian artists in his native Transylvania. Of mixed Polish, Aromanian, and possibly Ruthenian, background, he identified mainly with the Romanian-speaking Greek-Catholics, although some of his most important work was also done for the rival Romanian Orthodox Church. Smigelschi graduated from the Drawing School and Art Teachers' College in Budapest, working on and off at high schools in Upper Hungary and Transylvania. His European journeys with Arthur Coulin took him to Cervara di Roma, where he studied Renaissance art, while moving away from academic art and into Symbolism and Art Nouveau.\n\nModernizing themes from Romanian folklore and Byzantine art, from 1903 Smigelschi focused his effort mainly on Christian art and \"modelli\", including initial work for decorating Blaj Cathedral. He was among those commissioned to paint Sibiu Orthodox Cathedral, which required him to study religious art in the neighboring Kingdom of Romania. His \"new vision\" combined elements of Symbolism into the Orthodox tradition—a synthesis also found in his murals for smaller churches throughout Transylvania, and in his work on icons. His contribution was relatively ignored in Romania, but well-liked in Transylvania and Transleithania at large, earning Smigelschi the Vilmos Fraknói prize in 1907. He died of a heart disease while he was preparing to focus his work on Hungarian churches.\n\nThe artist's father, Mihail Śmigielski, came from Partitioned Poland. According to historian Nicolae Iorga, the family descended from \"chorąży\" (standard-bearers) to the Polish king. Another writer suggests a Ruthenian background; Mihail was an Eastern-rite Catholic, and the Austrian Partition of Poland was home to numerous Ruthenian Greek-Catholics. However, he does allow for the possibility that the elder Smigelschi adopted the faith after arriving in Transylvania. Octavian Smigelschi's own ethnic identity has been subject to some debate, with both Polish and Hungarian suggested, but he considered himself as Romanian, and was described by Transylvanians as the region's \"only Romanian painter.\" \n\nMihail was a member of the \"szlachta\" noble class who fled Poland following the 1848 Revolution and arrived in the Principality of Transylvania in 1850. Initially settling in Bungard, he married Ana Sebastian, an Aromanian from Macedonia and also a Greek-Catholic. Later, he moved to Nagyludas in Szeben County, now Ludoș, Sibiu County, to work as a notary. There, he had four sons. One of them, Victor, obtained a Theology doctorate from the University of Vienna, teaching the subject and serving as a canon in Blaj. Another, Vasile, became an architect and was influenced by Romanian nationalism. Mihail's other son, Cornel Smigelschi, died in 1892, an event which inspired Octavian to paint a number of portraits from memory, and also to produce a series of drawings and canvasses of Abaddon. Cornel is depicted in the 1892 \"Young Man Reading\".\n\nOctavian began school in his native village, and in 1880 enrolled at the state Hungarian high school in Sibiu. There, he became close friends with Fritz Schullerus, and the two took art classes from Carl Dörschlag, a German immigrant. Following graduation in 1884, he obtained a public scholarship to study at the Drawing School and Art Teachers' College in Budapest, headed by Bertalan Székely, together with Schullerus. He completed his work there in 1889. The following year, he applied for a scholarship in Romania, explaining that Hungary was stifling his creativity. He was finally integrated by the Hungarian education system, and named art teacher in the Upper Hungarian (Slovak) town of Banská Štiavnica. \n\nAlso in 1890, he held his first exhibition in Sibiu, alongside Schullerus and another Transylvanian Saxon colleague. In 1892, he was hired to teach art at the state high school in Dumbrăveni. He held this position until 1911, when he retired in order to focus on painting, although from 1905, when he moved to Sibiu, he was on a leave of absence for the same reason. During that interval, he began painting icons, which he advertised as \"the only ones befitting our canon.\" Together with his brother Victor, Smigelschi also joined the Blaj chapter of ASTRA Society, a Romanian nationalist association.\n\nAs described by art historian Gheorghe Vida, Smighelschi's other work of the period is a transition from Romanticism to Symbolism, with frequent lapses into Naturalism and academic art. Specifically, he belongs to the branch of Symbolism cultivated by Dörschlag, Hans von Marées, Pierre Puvis de Chavannes, Max Klinger, and Béla Iványi-Grünwald. Art historian Mihai Ispir views Dörschlag and Smigelschi as the two benchmarks of a transition from \"the neoclassical 'ideal' to Symbolist 'idealism'.\" Curators Sabin-Adrian Luca and Dana-Roxana Hrib describe Smigelschi's painting as bridging \"temperate naturalism\" and \"influences from that branch of Symbolism which descends from German romanticism.\" As the 1890s went on, Smigelschi also became increasingly drawn to Art Nouveau. Beginning in 1898, he undertook trips to Munich, Dresden, Vienna, Budapest, Florence, Rome and Ravenna, studying the local Renaissance art. He bunked with Robert Wellman and Arthur Coulin at Cervara di Roma art colony. Following this sojourn, Smigelschi expanded his Symbolist range. Initially, his paintings of Abbadon became more macabre; circa 1900, however, Smigelschi introduced a merrier derivation of Symbolism, exploring the motif of \"wicked fairies\", which has roots in Romanian folklore.\n\nIn 1903, he held his second exhibition in Blaj, featuring exclusively religious works, including \"modelli\" for painting the Greek-Catholic cathedral. That October, his third exhibition took place in Sibiu, with 71 secular paintings and drawings. Among the displays was a 7 x 5 m carpet woven by peasant women from Maramureș based on his indications. The show drew universal acclaim due to the newness of his style and the combination of popular Romanian motifs and peasant folk art he employed. The fourth exhibition occurred the same year in Budapest, and was praised as well, including by Octavian Goga in \"Luceafărul\".\n\nMeanwhile, the old Romanian Orthodox cathedral in Sibiu had been demolished in 1902 and a new building begun. A competition for the painting opened in November 1903, with fifteen Romanian, German and Hungarian participants. A committee composed of George Demetrescu Mirea, Ion Mincu and Friedrich Miess narrowed the field down to three finalists. In April 1904, Smigelschi was selected to execute the interior painting. He was paid 32,000 crowns for the cupola, the pendentives and the iconostasis. At this time, he began to focus on traditional styles of painting, seeking to strike a balance between large-scale murals and the architectural surroundings which they were not supposed to overshadow. Accordingly, in 1904, he crossed into the Romanian Old Kingdom as well as the Duchy of Bukovina in order to study the churches and monasteries where the Romanians' spiritual heritage is expressed, familiarizing himself with the Byzantine style that came to complement his knowledge of Renaissance painting. Reportedly, his interest in Byzantine art had first manifested itself in Italy, when he sketched after the monuments of Ravenna.\n\nIn this second creative period, Smigelschi nearly abandoned all other genres in favor of monumental work. He analyzed old painted churches at Tismana, Cozia, Bistrița, Horezu, Curtea de Argeș, Bucharest, Snagov, Sinaia, Iași, Suceava, Sucevița, Dragomirna, Putna, Rădăuți, Humor, Voroneț and Cernăuți. His own work, in churches at Șanț, Rădești, Sibiu, Ciacova and elsewhere, reflects attention to tradition but not a mere reproduction thereof. From Byzantine models he took the monumental size and decorative look; this was infused with the Renaissance and German schools, in particular Arnold Böcklin, to create a neo-Byzantine style most evident in the Sibiu cathedral. In a number of Transylvanian churches, particularly in the Năsăud area, he painted icons and sometimes entire iconostases.\n\nAfter moving to Sibiu in 1905, he was able to complete his commission there by the time the new cathedral was dedicated in May 1906. As a speaker of German and Hungarian, he fit easily into the city's artistic milieu. Features of his cathedral work, which he himself published as prints in \"Luceafărul\", include Christ Pantocrator in the cupola, the Four Evangelists on the pendentives and the painted iconostasis. Romanian folk motifs are used in the clothing worn by the Three Magi, the shepherds and the child angels with the star, while the Nativity of Jesus is transposed to a Romanian setting. Mircea Păcurariu suggests that the Magi are each inspired by a ruler of the Romanian provinces (Moldavia, Wallachia and Transylvania): Alexander the Good is taken from Sucevița, Neagoe Basarab from Curtea de Argeș and Matthias Corvinus from a period engraving.\n\nAccording to Iorga, Smigelschi persisted in his goal to paint a church of his own in Romania-proper, and presented his designs during the 1906 national exhibit in Bucharest, \"the Capital of his People.\" He was sidelined in favor of \"others, better seen and better connected.\" However, the icons he presented at the exhibit did earn Smigelschi a state prize, worth 250 lei. In 1907, along with painting at Ciacova, he donated funds to the families of those killed during the peasants' revolt. The following year, Smigelschi won a competition for the Vilmos Fraknói prize, guaranteeing him 3000 crowns annually, a studio and a residence in Fraknói's Rome house. He also organized an exhibit in Budapest, drawing favorable mentions in the local press. In 1909, Smigelschi painted the Greek-Catholic church in Rădești. During this time, he began to show symptoms of heart disease that grew progressively worse. He received an order for painting the altar in a Rákóczi chapel in Hungary, which remained unfilled, while painting for the Blaj cathedral and the remainder of the Sibiu cathedral was left in the planning stages.\n\nIn his final years, Smigelschi returned to \"modelli\" and created a series of mannequins, possibly intending to extend into sculpture. As noted by historian Nicolae Sabău, no buyer encouraged his work in the field. He also intended to execute a triptych for the 1911 International Exhibition of Art in Rome, but this remained undone due to a heart attack. In 1912, with his disease worsening, he left for treatment at Bad Nauheim. He then traveled to Budapest, where he took part in a contest for painting a chapel in Košice. Smigelschi died in Budapest in November 1912. His brother Victor claimed the remains and he was buried in Blaj. \n\nIorga, in his obituary piece, claimed that both Catholics and Orthodox Transylvanians felt \"undying sorrow, [sensing] that a century may pass and another painter like him [...] may still not be born.\" The deceased, he argued, had instilled a \"new vision of the world\". Likewise, Octavian Codru Tăslăuanu of \"Luceafărul\" writes that Smigelschi's \"innovation created a school\", although withholding judgment on \"whether the innovation was for the better.\" As asserted by Ispir, Smigelschi's neo-Byzantine approach was a \"perishable tear into the threads of tradition\". It replaced the \"post-Byzantine customs\" of traditional church art with a more academic and \"historicist\" approach.\n\nRetrospective exhibitions before World War I include an October 1913 show at the Budapest Kunsthalle, also honoring Coulin and Bertalan Bartolomaus Papp. Most of Smigelschi's works were bought and preserved by the ASTRA Museum, then transferred to Brukenthal. According to scholar Virgil Vătășianu, the sketches are the artist's most important contributions, and as such the most important artworks produced by a Transylvanian Romanian in the pre-1914 era. The other Smigelschis continued to be active in Romania, following the Transylvanian union. Smigelschi's son, Victor, was an architect noted for designing Blaj's Palace of Culture in 1930, and for his contribution to the Romanian pavilion at EXPO Paris 1937. He married the Italian Maria Anna Giuseppina Trinchieri; their progeny includes two daughters, both of whom are noted artists: ceramist Ioana Șetran and printmaker Ana-Maria Smigelschi.\n\n"}
{"id": "47398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47398", "title": "Orchestration", "text": "Orchestration\n\nOrchestration is the study or practice of writing music for an orchestra (or, more loosely, for any musical ensemble, such as a concert band) or of adapting music composed for another medium for an orchestra. Also called \"instrumentation\", orchestration is the selection of different instruments to play the different parts (e.g., melody, bassline, etc.) of a musical work. For example, a work for solo piano could be adapted and orchestrated so that an orchestra could perform the piece, or a concert band piece could be orchestrated for a symphony orchestra.\n\nOnly gradually over the course of music history did orchestration come to be regarded as a separate compositional art and profession in itself. In classical music, most composers write the melodies, chord progression and musical form for a piece and, then, if they want the piece to be played by an orchestra, they orchestrate the piece themselves. In musical theatre, however, the composer typically writes the melodies and then hires a professional arranger or orchestrator to devise the parts for the pit orchestra to play.\n\nSimilarly, when a film company is making a film score, a composer thinks up the main melodies and themes for the score, and then one or more orchestrators are hired to \"flesh out\" these basic melodies by adding accompaniment parts, basslines, backing chords, and so on. In jazz big bands, the composer or songwriter writes the lead sheet, which contains the melody and the chords, and then one or more orchestrators or arrangers \"flesh out\" these basic musical ideas by creating parts for the saxophones, trumpets, trombones, and the rhythm section (bass, piano/jazz guitar/Hammond organ, drums).\n\nAn orchestrator is a trained musical professional who assigns instruments from an orchestra or other musical ensemble to a piece of music written by a composer, or who adapts music composed for another medium for an orchestra. Orchestrators may work for musical theatre productions, film production companies or recording studios. Some orchestrators teach at colleges, conservatories or universities. The training done by orchestrators varies. Most have completed formal postsecondary education in music, such as a Bachelor of Music (B.Mus.), Master of Music (M.Mus.) or an artist's diploma. Orchestrators who teach at universities, colleges and conservatories may be required to hold a master's degree or a Doctorate (the latter may be a Ph.D. or a D.M.A). Orchestrators who work for film companies, musical theatre companies and other organizations may be hired solely based on their orchestration experience, even if they do not hold academic credentials. In the 2010s, as the percentage of faculty holding terminal degrees and/or Doctoral degrees is part of how an institution is rated, this is causing an increasing number of postsecondary institutions to require terminal and/or Doctoral degrees.\n\nThe term \"orchestration\" in its specific sense refers to the way instruments are used to portray any musical aspect such as melody, harmony or rhythm. For example, a C major chord is made up of the notes C, E, and G. If the notes are held out the entire duration of a measure, the composer or orchestrator will have to decide what instrument(s) play this chord and in what register. Some instruments, including woodwinds and brass are monophonic and can only play one note of the chord at a time. However, in a full orchestra there are more than one of these instruments, so the composer may choose to outline the chord in its basic form with a group of clarinets or trumpets (with separate instruments each being given one of the three notes of the chord). Other instruments, including the strings, piano, harp, and pitched percussion are polyphonic and may play more than one note at a time. As such, if the composer/orchestrator wishes to have the strings play the C major chord, she could assign the low C to the cellos and basses, the G to the violas, and then a high E to the second violins and an E an octave higher to the first violins. If the composer/orchestrator wishes the chord to be played only by the first and second violins, she could give the second violins a low C and give the first violins a double stop of the notes G (an open string) and E.\n\nAdditionally in orchestration, notes may be placed into another register (such as transposed down for the basses), doubled (both in the same and different octaves), and altered with various levels of dynamics. The choice of instruments, registers, and dynamics affect the overall tone color. If the C major chord was orchestrated for the trumpets and trombones playing fortissimo in their upper registers, it would sound very bright; but if the same chord was orchestrated for the celli and string basses playing sul tasto, doubled by the bassoons and bass clarinet, it might sound heavy and dark.\n\nNote that although the above example discussed orchestrating a chord, a melody or even a single note may be orchestrated in this fashion. Also note that in this specific sense of the word, \"orchestration\" is not necessarily limited to an orchestra, as a composer may \"orchestrate\" this same C major chord for, say, a woodwind quintet, a string quartet or a concert band. Each different ensemble would enable the orchestrator/composer to create different tone \"colours\" and timbres.\n\nA melody is also orchestrated. The composer or orchestrator may think of a melody in her head, or while playing the piano or organ. Once she has thought of a melody, she has to decide which instrument (or instruments) will play the melody. One widely used approach for a melody is to assign it to the first violins. When the first violins play a melody, the composer can have the second violins double the melody an octave below, or have the second violins play a harmony part (often in thirds and sixths). Sometimes, for a forceful effect, a composer will indicate in the score that all of the strings (violins, violas, cellos, and double basses) will play the melody in unison, at the same time. Typically, even though the instruments are playing the same note names, the violins will play very high-register notes, the violas and cellos will play lower-register notes, and the double basses will play the deepest, lowest pitches.\n\nAs well, the woodwinds and brass instruments can effectively carry a melody, depending on the effect the composer/orchestrator desires. The trumpets can perform a melody in a powerful, high register. Alternatively, if the trombones play a melody, the pitch will be lower than the trumpet, and the tone will be heavier, which may change the musical effect that is created. While the cellos are often given an accompaniment role in orchestration, there are notable cases where the cellos have been assigned the melody. In even more rare cases, the double bass section (or principal bass) may be given a melody (e.g., the high-register double bass solo in Prokofiev's \"Lieutenant Kije Suite\").\n\nWhile assigning a melody to a particular section, such as the string section or the woodwinds will work well, as the stringed instruments and all the woodwinds blend together well, some composers give the melody to one section and then have the melody doubled by a different section or an instrument from a different section. For example, a melody played by the first violins could be doubled by the glockenspiel, which would add a sparkling, chime-like colour to the melody. Alternatively, a melody played by the piccolos could be doubled by the celesta, which would add a bright tone to the sound.\n\nIn the 20th and 21st century, contemporary composers began to incorporate electric and electronic instruments into the orchestra, such as the electric guitar played through a guitar amplifier, the electric bass played through a bass amplifier, the Theremin and the synthesizer. The addition of these new instruments gave composers new options for creating tonal \"colours\" in their orchestration. For example, in the late 20th century and onwards, a composer could have a melody played by the first violins doubled by a futuristic-sounding synthesizer or a theremin to create an unusual effect.\n\nOrchestral instrumentation is denoted by an abbreviated formulaic convention, as follows: flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon- horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba. More details can be contained in brackets. A dot separates one player from another, a slash indicates doubling. Timpani and percussion are denoted 2Tmp+ number of percussion.\n\nFor example, 3[1.2.3/pic] 2[1.Eh] 3[1.2.3/Ebcl/bcl] 3[1.2/cbn.cbn] tmp+2 is interpreted as:\n\n\nAs an example, Mahler Symphony 2 is scored: 4[1/pic.2/pic.3/pic.4/pic] 4[1.2.3/Eh.4/Eh] 5[1.2.3/bcl.4/Ebcl2.Ebcl] 4[1.2.3.4/cbn]- 10 8 4 1- 2tmp+4-2 hp- org- str.\n\nDuring the Baroque era, composers showed increasing awareness of the expressive potential of orchestration. While some early Baroque pieces have no indication of which instruments should play the piece, the choice of instruments being left to the musical group's leader or concertmaster, there are Baroque works which specify certain instruments. The orchestral accompaniment to the aria 'et misericordia' from J.S.Bach’s \"Magnificat\", BWV243 (1723) features muted strings doubled by flutes, a subtle combination of mellow instrumental timbres.]\n\nThe orchestral introduction to the opening chorus of J.S.Bach’s epiphany Cantata \"Sie werden aus Saba alle kommen\" BWV65, which John Eliot Gardiner (2013, p. 328) describes as “one of the crowning glories of Bach’s first Christmas season” demonstrates the composer’s mastery of his craft. Within a space of eight bars, we hear recorders, oboes da caccia, horns and strings creating a “glittery sheen” of contrasted timbres, sonorities and textures ranging from just two horns against a string pedal point in the first bar to a “restatement of the octave unison theme, this time by all the voices and instruments spread over five octaves” in bars 7-8:\n\nIgor Stravinsky (1959, p45) marvelled at Bach’s skill as an orchestrator: “What incomparable instrumental writing is Bach's. You can smell the resin [(rosin)] in his violin parts, [and] taste the reeds in the \noboes.”\n\nJean Philippe Rameau was famous for \"the eloquence of [his] orchestral writing which was something entirely new... - with a feeling for colour [(i.e., tone colour or timbre)] that is altogether 'modern'.\" In 'The Entrance of Polymnie' from his opera \"Les Boréades\" (1763), the predominant string texture is shot through with descending scale figures on the bassoon, creating an exquisite blend of timbres:\n\nAnother important technique of orchestration was antiphony, the \"call and response\" exchange of musical motifs or \"ideas\" between different groups in the orchestra. In an antiphonal section, the composer may have one group of instruments introduce a melodic idea (e.g., the first violins), and then have the woodwinds \"answer\" by restating this melodic idea, often with some type of variation. In the trio section of the minuet from Mozart’s Symphony No. 41 (1788), the flute, bassoons and horn exchange phrases with the strings, with the first violin line doubled at the octave by the first oboe: Charles Rosen (1971, p. 240) admires Mozart’s skill in orchestrating his piano concertos, particularly the Concerto in E flat major, K482, a work that introduced clarinets into the mix. “This concerto places the greatest musical reliance on tone colour, which is, indeed, almost always ravishing. One lovely example of its sonorities comes near the beginning.” \nThe orchestral tutti in the first two bars is answered by just horns and bassoon in bars 2-6. This passage repeats with fresh orchestration: “Here we have the unusual sound on the violins providing the bass for the solo clarinets. The simplicity of the sequence concentrates all our interest on tone-colour, and what follows – a series of woodwind solos – keeps it there. The orchestration throughout, in fact, has a greater variety than Mozart had wished or needed before, and fits the brilliance, charm, and grace of the first movement and the finale.” \n\nA demonstration of Beethoven’s consummate skill at obtaining the maximum variety out of seemingly unprepossessing and fairly simple material can be found in the first movement of the Piano Concerto No. 5 in E flat (‘The Emperor’) Opus 73 (1810). The second subject of the sonata form is a deceptively simple tune that, according to Fiske (1970, p. 41) “is limited to notes playable on the horns for which it music have been specially designed.” This theme appears in five different orchestrations throughout the movement, with changes of mode (major to minor), dynamics (forte to pianissimo) and a blending of instrumental colour that ranges from boldly stated tutti passages to the most subtle and differentiated episodes, where instrumental sounds are combined often in quite unexpected ways:\n\nThe theme first appears in the minor mode during the orchestral introduction, performed using staccato articulation and orchestrated in the most delicate and enchanting colours:This is followed by a more straightforward version in the major key, with horns accompanied by strings. The theme is now played legato by the horns, accompanied by a sustained pedal point in the bassoons. The violins simultaneously play an elaborated version of the theme. (See also heterophony.) The timpani and pizzicato lower strings add further colour to this variegated palette of sounds. “Considering that the notes are virtually the same the difference in effect is extraordinary”:When the solo piano enters, its right hand plays a variant of the minor version of the theme in a triplet rhythm, with the backing of pizzicato (plucked) strings on the off-beats:This is followed by a bold \"tutti\" statement of the theme, \"with the whole orchestra thumping it out in aggressive semi-staccato. :The minor version of the theme also appears in the cadenza, played staccato by the solo piano:This is followed, finally, by a restatement of the major key version, featuring horns playing legato , accompanied by pizzicato strings and filigree arpeggio figuration in the solo piano: Fiske (1970) says that Beethoven shows “a superb flood of invention” through these varied treatments. “The variety of moods this theme can convey is without limit” .”\n\nThe most significant orchestral innovator of the early 19th century was Hector Berlioz. (The composer was also the author of a \"Treatise on Instrumentation\".) “He was drawn to the orchestra as his chosen medium by instinct … and by finding out the exact capabilities and timbres of individual instruments, and it was on this raw material that his imagination worked to produce countless new sonorities, very striking when considered as a totality, crucially instructive for later composers, and nearly all exactly tailored to their dramatic or expressive purpose.” Numerous examples of Berlioz’s orchestral wizardry and his penchant for conjuring extraordinary sonorities can be found in his \"Symphonie fantastique\". The opening of the fourth movement, entitled “March to the Scaffold” features what for the time (1830) must have seemed a bizarre mix of sounds. The timpani and the double basses play thick chords against the snarling muted brass: ]\n\n“Although he derives from Beethoven, Berlioz uses features that run counter to the rules of composition in general, such as the chords in close position in the low register of the double basses.” \nBerlioz was also capable of conveying great delicacy in his instrumental writing. A particularly spectacular instance is the “Queen Mab” scherzo from the \"Romeo et Juliette\" symphony, which Hugh Macdonald (1969, p51) describes as “Berlioz’s supreme exercise in light orchestral texture, a brilliant, gossamer fabric, prestissimo and pianissimo almost without pause: \n\nBoulez points out that the very fast tempo must have made unprecedented demands on conductors and orchestras of the time (1830), “Because of the rapid and precise rhythms, the staccatos which must be even and regular in all registers, because of the isolated notes that occur right at the end of the bar on the third quaver…all of which must fall into place with absolutely perfect precision.” \nMacdonald highlights the passage towards the end of the scherzo where “The sounds become more ethereal and fairylike, low clarinet, high harps and the bell-like antique cymbals…The pace and fascination of the movement are irresistible; it is some of the most ethereally brilliant music ever penned.” ] The New Grove Dictionary says that for Berlioz, orchestration “was intrinsic to composition, not something applied to finished music...in his hands timbre became something that could be used in free combinations, as an artist might use his palette, without bowing to the demands of line, and this leads to the rich orchestral resource of Debussy and Ravel.”\n\nAfter Berlioz, Richard Wagner was the major pioneer in the development of orchestration during the 19th century. Pierre Boulez speaks of the “sheer richness of Wagner’s orchestration and his irrepressible instinct for innovation.” Peter Latham says that Wagner had a “unique appreciation of the possibilities for colour inherent in the instruments at his disposal, and it was this that guided him both in his selection of new recruits for the orchestral family and in his treatment of its established members. The well-known division of that family into strings, woodwind, and brass, with percussion as required, he inherited from the great classical symphonists such changes as he made were in the direction of splitting up these groups still further.” Latham gives as an example, the sonority of the opening of the opera \"Lohengrin\", where “the ethereal quality of the music” is due to the violins being “divided up into four, five, or even eight parts instead of the customary two.” ]\n\nAs he matured as a composer, particularly through his experience of composing \"The Ring\" Wagner made “increasing use of the contrast between pure and mixed colours, bringing to a fine point the art of transition from one field of sonority to another.” In the first act of his final opera \"Parsifal\", Wagner offsets the bold brass with gentler strings, showing that the same musical material feels very different when passed between contrasting families of instruments:]\n\nOn the other hand, the prelude to the opera \"Tristan and Isolde\" exemplifies the variety that Wagner could extract through combining instruments from different orchestral families with his precise markings of dynamics and articulation. In the opening phrase, the cellos are supported by wind instruments: ]\n\nWhen this idea returns towards the end of the prelude, the instrumental colors are varied subtly, with sounds that were new to the 19th century orchestra, such as the cor anglais and the bass clarinet. These, together with the ominous rumbling of the timpani effectively convey the brooding atmosphere: ]\n\n“It’s impressive to see how Wagner… produces balance in his works. He is true genius in this respect, undeniably so, even down to the working out of the exact number of instruments.” Boulez is “fascinated by the precision with which Wagner gauges orchestral balance, [which] … contains a multiplicity of details that he achieved with astonishing precision.” According to Roger Scruton, \"Seldom since Bach's inspired use of obbligato parts in his cantatas have the instruments of the orchestra been so meticulously and lovingly adapted to their expressive role by Wagner in his later operas.\" \n\nWilliam Austin (1966) says “Mahler expanded the orchestra, going ahead to a historic climax in the direction already marked by Beethoven, Berlioz and Wagner… The purpose of this famous expansion was not a sheer increase in volume, but a greater variety of sound with more nearly continuous gradations… Mahler only occasionally required all his vast orchestra to play together, and his music was as often soft as loud. Its colours were continually shifting, blending or contrasting with each other.” Adorno (1971) similarly describes Mahler’s symphonic writing as characterised by “massive tutti effects” contrasted with “chamber-music procedures”. The following passage from the first movement of his Symphony No. 4 illustrates this: Only in the first bar of the above is there a full ensemble. The remaining bars feature highly differentiated small groups of instruments. Mahler’s experienced conductor’s ear led him to write detailed performance markings in his scores, including carefully calibrated dynamics. For example, in bar 2 above, the low harp note is marked \"forte\", the clarinets, \"mezzo-forte\" and the horns \"piano\". Austin (1966) says that “Mahler cared about the finest nuances of loudness and tempo and worked tirelessly to fix these details in his scores.”\n\nMahler’s imagination for sonority is exemplified in the closing bars of the slow movement of the Fourth Symphony, where there occurs what Walter Piston (1969, p. 140) describes as “an instance of inspired orchestration… To be noted are the sudden change of mode in the harmonic progression, the unusual spacing of the chord in measure 5, and the placing of the perfect fourth in the two flutes. The effect is quite unexpected and magical.”\n\nApart from Mahler and Richard Strauss, the major innovator in orchestration during the closing years of the nineteenth and the first decades of the twentieth century was Claude Debussy. According to Pierre Boulez (1975, p20) “Debussy’s orchestration… when compared with even such brilliant contemporaries as Strauss and Mahler… shows an infinitely fresher imagination.” Boulez said that Debussy’s orchestration was “conceived from quite a different point of view; the number of instruments, their balance, the order in which they are used, their use itself, produces a different climate.” Apart from the early impact of Wagner, Debussy was also fascinated by music from Asia that according to Austin “he heard repeatedly and admired intensely at the Paris World exhibition of 1889”.\n\nBoth influences inform Debussy’s first major orchestral work, \"Prelude a l’après-midi d’un faune\" (1894). Wagner’s influence can be heard in the strategic use of silence, the sensitively differentiated orchestration and, above all in the striking half-diminished seventh chord spread between oboes and clarinets, reinforced by a glissando on the harp. Austin (1966, p. 16) continues “Only a composer thoroughly familiar with the Tristan chord could have conceived the beginning of the \"Faune\".”\n\nLater in the \"Faune\", Debussy builds a complex texture, where, as Austin says, “Polyphony and orchestration overlap...He adds to all the devices of Mozart, Weber, Berlioz and Wagner the possibilities that he learned from the heterophonic music of the Far East... The first harp varies the flute parts in almost the same way that the smallest bells of a Javanese gamelan vary the slower basic melody.”\n\nDebussy’s final orchestral work, the enigmatic ballet \"Jeux\" (1913) was composed nearly 20 years after the \"Faune\". The opening bars feature divided strings, spread over a wide range, a harp doubling horns with the addition of the bell-like celesta in the 5th bar and the sultry voicing of the whole tone chords in the woodwind:]\n\nJensen (2014, p. 228) says “Perhaps the greatest marvel of \"Jeux\" is its orchestration. While working on the piano score, Debussy wrote: ‘I am thinking of that orchestral colour which seems to be illuminated from behind, and for which there are such marvellous displays in \"Parsifal\"’ The idea, then, was to produce timbre without glare, subdued… but to do so with clarity and precision.” \n\nIn a more general sense, \"orchestration\" also refers to the re-adaptation of existing music into another medium, particularly a full or reduced orchestra. There are two general kinds of adaptation: transcription, which closely follows the original piece, and arrangement, which tends to change significant aspects of the original piece. In terms of adaptation, \"orchestration\" applies, strictly speaking, only to writing for orchestra, whereas the term \"instrumentation\" applies to instruments used in the texture of the piece. In the study of orchestration – in contradistinction to the practice – the term \"instrumentation\" may also refer to consideration of the defining characteristics of individual instruments rather than to the art of combining instruments.\n\nIn commercial music, especially musical theatre and film music, independent orchestrators are often used because it is difficult to meet tight deadlines when the same person is required both to compose and to orchestrate. Frequently, when a stage musical is adapted to film, such as \"Camelot\" or \"Fiddler on the Roof\", the orchestrations for the film version are notably different from the stage ones. In other cases, such as \"Evita\", they are not, and are simply expanded versions from those used in the stage production.\n\nMost orchestrators often work from a draft (sketch), or short score, that is, a score written on limited number of independent musical staves. Some orchestrators, particularly those writing for the opera or music theatres, prefer to work from a piano vocal score up, since the singers need to start rehearsing a piece long before the whole work is fully completed. That was, for instance, the method of composition of Jules Massenet. In other instances, simple cooperation between various creators is utilized, as when Jonathan Tunick orchestrates Stephen Sondheim's songs, or when orchestration is done from a lead sheet (a simplified music notation for a song which includes just the melody and the chord progression). In the latter case, arranging as well as orchestration will be involved.\n\nDue to the enormous time constraints of film scoring schedules, most film composers employ orchestrators rather than doing the work themselves, although these orchestrators work under the close supervision of the composer. Some film composers have made the time to orchestrate their own music, including Bernard Herrmann (1911-1975), Georges Delerue (1925-1992), Ennio Morricone (1928-), John Williams (1932-) (his very detailed sketches are 99% orchestrated), Howard Shore (1946-), James Horner (1953-2015) (on Braveheart), Bruno Coulais (1954-), Rachel Portman (1960-), Philippe Rombi (1968-) and Abel Korzeniowski (1972-).\n\nAlthough there have been hundreds of orchestrators in film over the years, the most prominent film orchestrators for the latter half of the 20th century were Jack Hayes, Herbert W. Spencer, Edward Powell (who worked almost exclusively with Alfred Newman), Arthur Morton, Greig McRitchie, and Alexander Courage. Some of the most in-demand orchestrators today (and of the past 30 years) include Jeff Atmajian, Pete Anthony, Brad Dechter (James Newton Howard, Christopher Young, Theodore Shapiro, Teddy Castellucci, Danny Elfman, John Powell, Marco Beltrami, John Debney, Marc Shaiman, Michael Giacchino), Conrad Pope (John Williams, Alexandre Desplat, Jerry Goldsmith, James Newton Howard, Alan Silvestri, James Horner, Mark Isham, John Powell, Michael Convertino, Danny Elfman, Howard Shore), Eddie Karam (John Williams, James Horner), Bruce Fowler (Hans Zimmer, Klaus Badelt, Harry Gregson-Williams, Steve Jablonsky, Mark Mothersbaugh, John Powell), John Ashton Thomas (John Powell, John Debney, Alan Silvestri, James Newton Howard, Henry Jackman, Lyle Workman, Theodore Shapiro, John Ottman, John Paesano), Robert Elhai (Elliot Goldenthal, Michael Kamen, Ed Shearmur, Brian Tyler, Klaus Badelt, Ilan Eshkeri ) and J.A.C. Redford (James Horner, Thomas Newman). \n\nConrad Salinger was the most prominent orchestrator of MGM musicals from the 1940s to 1962, orchestrating such famous films as \"Singin' in the Rain\", \"An American in Paris\", and \"Gigi\". In the 1950s, film composer John Williams frequently spent time with Salinger informally learning the craft of orchestration. Robert Russell Bennett (George Gershwin, Rodgers and Hammerstein) was one of America's most prolific orchestrators (particularly of Broadway shows) of the 20th century, sometimes scoring over 80 pages a day.\n\nMost films require 30 to 120 minutes of musical score. Each individual piece of music in a film is called a \"cue\". There are roughly 20-80 cues per film. A dramatic film may require slow and sparse music while an action film may require 80 cues of highly active music. Each cue can range in length from five seconds to more than ten minutes as needed per scene in the film. After the composer is finished composing the cue, this sketch score is delivered to the orchestrator either as hand written or computer generated. Most composers in Hollywood today compose their music using sequencing software (e.g. Digital Performer, Logic Pro, or Cubase). A sketch score can be generated through the use of a MIDI file which is then imported into a music notation program such as Finale or Sibelius. Thus begins the job of the orchestrator.\n\nEvery composer works differently and the orchestrator's job is to understand what is required from one composer to the next. If the music is created with sequencing software then the orchestrator is given a MIDI sketch score and a synthesized recording of the cue. The sketch score only contains the musical notes (e.g. eighth notes, quarter notes, etc.) with no phrasing, articulations, or dynamics. The orchestrator studies this synthesized \"mockup\" recording listening to dynamics and phrasing (just as the composer has played them in). He or she then accurately tries to represent these elements in the orchestra. However some voicings on a synthesizer (synthestration) will not work in the same way when orchestrated for the live orchestra.\n\nThe sound samples are often doubled up very prominently and thickly with other sounds in order to get the music to \"speak\" louder. The orchestrator sometimes changes these synth voicings to traditional orchestral voicings in order to make the music flow better. He or she may move intervals up or down the octave (or omit them entirely), double certain passages with other instruments in the orchestra, add percussion instruments to provide colour, and add Italian performance marks (e.g. Allegro con brio, Adagio, ritardando, dolce, staccato, etc.). If a composer writes a large action cue, and no woodwinds are used, the orchestrator will often add woodwinds by doubling the brass music up an octave. The orchestra size is determined from the music budget of the film.\n\nThe orchestrator is told in advance the number of instruments he or she has to work with and has to abide by what is available. A big-budget film may be able to afford a Romantic music era-orchestra with over 100 musicians. In contrast, a low-budget independent film may only be able to afford a 20 performer chamber orchestra or a jazz quartet. Sometimes a composer will write a three-part chord for three flutes, although only two flutes have been hired. The orchestrator decides where to put the third note. For example, the orchestrator could have the clarinet (a woodwind that blends well with flute) play the third note. After the orchestrated cue is complete it is delivered to the copying house (generally by placing it on a computer server) so that each instrument of the orchestra can be electronically extracted, printed, and delivered to the scoring stage.\n\nThe major film composers in Hollywood each have a lead orchestrator. Generally the lead orchestrator attempts to orchestrate as much of the music as possible if time allows. If the schedule is too demanding, a team of orchestrators (ranging from two to eight) will work on a film. The lead orchestrator decides on the assignment of cues to other orchestrators on the team. Most films can be orchestrated in one to two weeks with a team of five orchestrators. New orchestrators trying to obtain work will often approach a film composer asking to be hired. They are generally referred to the lead orchestrator for consideration. At the scoring stage the orchestrator will often assist the composer in the recording booth giving suggestions on how to improve the performance, the music, or the recording. If the composer is conducting, sometimes the orchestrator will remain in the recording booth to assist as a producer. Sometimes the roles are reversed with the orchestrator conducting and the composer producing from the booth.\n\n\n\n - full, searchable text with music images, mp3 files, and MusicXML files\n"}
{"id": "36250741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36250741", "title": "Pacific Resident Theatre", "text": "Pacific Resident Theatre\n\nPacific Resident Theatre (PRT) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit theatre company located at 707 Venice Boulevard in Venice, California. It was founded as an actors cooperative in Venice's arts district in 1985 and is dedicated to producing both classic and little known plays, as well as works by new authors. The company has received over 90 awards including awards from the L.A. Drama Critics Circle, Drama-Logue, the NAACP, the LA Weekly and Garland.\n\n"}
{"id": "1870203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870203", "title": "Production company", "text": "Production company\n\nA production company, production house, production studio, or a production team provides the physical basis for works in the realms of the performing arts, new media art, film, television, radio, comics, interactive arts, video games, websites, and video. Production teams are a group of technical staff who produce the media, generally the term refers to all individuals responsible for the technical aspects of creating of a particular product, regardless of where in the process their expertise is required, or how long they are involved in the project. For example, in a theatrical performance, the production team includes not only the running crew, but also the theatrical producer, designers and theatre direction.\n\nThe production company may be directly responsible for fundraising for the production or may accomplish this through a parent company, partner, or private investor. It handles budgeting, scheduling, scripting, the supply with talent and resources, the organization of staff, the production itself, post-production, distribution, and marketing.\n\nProduction companies are often either owned or under contract with a media conglomerate, film studio, entertainment company, or Motion Picture Company, who act as the \"production company\"'s partner or parent company. This has become known as the \"studio system\". Independent studios usually prefer \"production house\" (see Lionsgate), and sometimes as a \"production studio\" or \"production team\" (see Amazon Studios or Rooster Teeth). In the case of television, a production company would serve under a television network. Production companies can work together in co-productions. In music, the term production team typically refers to a group of individuals filling the role of \"record producer\" usually reserved for one individual. Some examples of musical production teams include Matmos and D-Influence\n\nEntertainment companies operate as mini conglomerates, operating many divisions or subsidiaries in many different industries. Warner Bros. Entertainment and Lionsgate Entertainment are two companies with this corporate structure. It allows for a single company to maintain control over seemingly unrelated companies that fall within the ranges of entertainment, which increases and centralises the revenue into one company (example: a film production company, TV production company, video game company, and comic book company are all owned by a single entertainment company). A motion picture company, such as Paramount Pictures, specializing \"only\" in motion pictures is only connected with its other counterpart industries through its parent company. Instead of performing a corporate reorganization, many motion picture companies often have sister companies they collaborate with in other industries that are subsidiaries owned by their parent company and is often not involved in the making of products that are not motion picture related. A film production company can either operate as an affiliate (under a contract) or as a subsidiary for an entertainment company, motion picture company, television network, or all, and are generally smaller than the company they are partnered with.\n\nA book to film unit is a unit of a book publishing company for the purposes of getting books that they published adapted into film.\n\nFilms have been using books as a prime source for films for years. In 2012, six out of the nine best picture Oscar nominees were originally books. Previously, publishers did not develop their books into movie nor receive any of the profits. Neither Scholastic or Little Brown, get any box office revenue from the Harry Potter and Twilight movies just through book sales. As the publishers faced decreasing revenue due to increased competition from self-published e-books, or Amazon.com moving into the publishing field, publishers have started to enter the film and TV production business to boost their net income with Amazon attempting to compete there too. More screenwriters are turning to book publishers to get their screenplay published as a book, so as to have a boost in their attempt to have the screenplay turned into a movie, given that it is a known product after the book.\n\nPublisher Simon & Schuster has been owned by media companies lately by CBS Corporation while the publisher is not involved with film and TV, S&S shares with CBS for possible film or TV deals. Alloy Entertainment while not a unit of a publisher started using a book packaging to film model of film and TV development by developing the property in-house, hire authors for the books and films, so as to own the property. Random House was the first big six book publisher to establish a book to film unit, Random House Films, in 2005 with a Focus Features deal under a development and co-finance plan.\n\nMacmillan Films was launched by Thomas Dunne Books in October 2010 under the packaging model similar to Alloy while also moving to get film rights from Dunne's published author. Also that year, Random House changed their strategy to film development and packaging only.\n\nCondé Nast Entertainment was started by Magazine publisher Conde Nast in October 2012. In 2013, Macmillan Films became Macmillan Entertainment with an expansion to look at other divisions' book for possible films.\n\nA production company is usually run by a producer or director, but can also be run by a career executive. In entertainment, a production company relies highly on talent or a well known entertainment franchise to raise the value of an entertainment project and draw out larger audiences. This gives the entertainment industry a democratized power structure to ensure that both the companies and talent receive their fair share of pay and recognition for work done on a production. The entertainment industry is centered on funding (studio investments, private investments, or self investments either from earnings from previous productions or personal wealth), projects (scripts and entertainment franchises), and talent (actors, directors, screenwriters, and crew). Production companies are judged and ranked based on the amount of funding it has, as well the productions it has completed or been involved with in the past. If a production company has major funding either through earnings, studio investors, or private investors, and has done or been involved with big budget productions in the past, it is considered to be a major production company. These companies often work with well-known and expensive talent. If a production company does not have much funding and has not done or been involved with any big budget productions, it is considered to be a small production company. These companies often work with up and coming talent. Small production companies will either grow to become a major production company, a subsidiary completely owned by another company, or remain small. The success of an entertainment production company is centered on the projects it produces, the talent it can acquire, and the performance of the talent. Marketing is also a major factor. All films, as a tradition, are often marketed around the image and the performance of the actors; with an option of marketing the behind the scenes crew such as the directors and screenwriters. Unlike many other businesses, a production company does not rely on an ongoing revenue stream, they operate on ongoing investments; this often requires a parent company or a private corporate investment entity (see Legendary Pictures). Their only source of profit comes from the productions they produce. Because entertainment and media are currently in \"high demand\", a production company can profit if its management is capable of using its resources to supply good quality products and services to the public. Many entertainment production companies brand their entertainment projects. An entertainment project can either become a \"one time hit\" or an ongoing \"entertainment franchise\" that can be continued, remade, rebooted, or expanded into other sister industries; such as the video game industry (see \"Star Wars\", \"Star Trek\"). Entertainment projects can be either an original or an adaptation from another industry.\n\nIn rare occasional cases, a few troubled major studios would also shed their distribution and/or marketing staffs, mainly due to reduced resources, and resort to co-investing and/or co-distributing film projects with larger studios, operating as virtual, production-only movie studios. Notable examples include legendary studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, which, after many years of box office flops (mostly with low budgets), bad management and distribution, and bankruptcy, was restructured at the end of 2010 under new management and currently struck deals with some of the Big Six studios (most notably the Sony Pictures Motion Picture Group and Warner Bros.); Miramax, which was downsized by former owner Disney into a smaller division after the Weinstein brothers' 2005 divestment and, after 17 years under Disney ownership, was sold to a group of investors at the end of 2010 who eventually struck deals to co-finance the studio's projects with other independent companies; and DreamWorks Pictures, the independently-run live action studio, which currently releases many projects through Universal Pictures and formerly released their projects through Disney after spinning off from Paramount Pictures (which purchased the studio in 2006 and stripped it of its independent distributor status) in 2008.\n\nBecause a production company is only operational when a production is being produced and most of the talent and crew are freelancers, many production companies are only required to hire management staff that helps to oversee the company's daily activities. In some cases, a production company can be run by only a handful of people. The company's funds are mainly committed towards employing talent, crew, and acquiring new updated production equipment on a regular basis. Many productions often require at least one to two cameras and lighting equipment for on location shooting. Production equipment is either leased or purchased from another production company or directly from the manufacturer. In the entertainment industry, in order to secure experienced professional talent and crew, production companies often become a signatory company to that talent or crew members \"guild\". By becoming a signatory company, it agrees to abide by the guild regulations. All big budget guild productions are exclusive to guild members and non guild members are not allowed to participate in these productions unless authorized by the guild. Productions with smaller budgets are allowed to use both guild talent and talent from the public. The majority of the talent and crew working in the entertainment industry are members of their professions guild. Most productions in the entertainment industry are guild productions.\n\nA production company is responsible for the development and filming of a specific production or media broadcast. In entertainment, the production process begins with the development of a specific project. Once a final script has been produced by the screenwriters, the production enters into the pre-production phase, most productions never reach this phase for financing or talent reasons. In pre-production, the actors are signed on and prepared for their roles, crew is signed on, shooting locations are found, sets are built or acquired, and the proper shooting permits are acquired for on location shooting. Actors and crew are hand picked by the producer, director, and casting director, who often use collaborators or referenced personnel to prevent untrusted or unwelcomed people from gaining access to a specific production and compromising the entire production through leaks. Once a production enters into principal photography, it begins filming. Productions are almost never cancelled once they reach this phase. Codenames are often used on bigger productions during filming to conceal the production's shooting locations for both privacy and safety reasons. In many cases, the director, producers, and the leading actors are often the only people with access to a full or majority of a single script. Supporting actors, background actors, and crew often never receive a full copy of a specific script to prevent leaks. Productions are often shot in secured studios, with limited to no public access, but they are also shot on location on secured sets or locations. Due to the exposure, when shooting in public locations, major productions often employ security to ensure the protection of the talent and crew working on a specific production. After filming is completed, the production enters into post production, which is handled by a post production company and overseen by the production company. The editing, musical score, visual effects, re-recording of the dialog, and sound effects are \"mixed\" to create the final film, which is then screened at the final screening. Marketing is also launched during this phase, such as the release of trailers and posters. Once a final film has been approved, the film is taken over by the distributors, who then release the film.\n\nFor legal reasons, it is common within the entertainment industry for production companies not to accept unsolicited materials from any other company, talent, or the general public. It is also common for filmmakers or producers to become entrepreneurs and open their own production companies so that they can have more control over their careers and pay, while acting as an \"in-house\" creative and business driving force for their company but continuing to freelance as an artist for other companies, if desired.\n\n"}
{"id": "38848882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38848882", "title": "Saura painting", "text": "Saura painting\n\nSaura\ntribal painting is a style of wall mural paintings associated with the Sauda tribals of the state of Odisha in India. These paintings, also called \"ikons\" (or \"ekons\") are visually similar to Warli paintings and hold religious significance for the Sauras. By an she man In recent years they have seen a rise in popularity and have appeared as decorative icons on items such as t-shirts, mugs and diaries.\n\nSauras are among the most ancient of tribes in India and find mention in the Hindu epics of Ramayana and Mahabharata. Savari, Rama’s devotee in the Ramayana and Jara, the hunter who mortally wounded Krishna with an arrow, are thought to have been members of this tribe. Jara’s body is believed to have flowed into the sea near Puri as a wooden log and the idol Jagannath at Puri is believed to have been sculpted from it. Saura paintings are an integral part of the religious ceremonies of the Saura tribals and are found in the southern Odisha districts of Rayagada, Ganjam, Gajapati and Koraput. Saura paintings were first studied by the famous anthropologist Verrier Elwin.\n\nThe Saura wall paintings are called \"italons\" or \"ikons\" (or \"ekons\") and are dedicated to Idital (also \"edital\") the main deity of the Sauras. These paintings draw upon tribal folklore and have ritualistic importance. Ikons make extensive use of symbolically pregnant icons that mirror the quotidian chores of the Sauras. People, horses, elephants, the sun and the moon and the tree of life are recurring motifs in these ikons. Ikons were originally painted on the walls of the Saura's adobe huts. The paintings' backdrop is prepared from red or yellow ochre earth which is then painted over using brushes fashioned from tender bamboo shoots. Ekons use natural dyes and chromes derived from ground white stone, hued earth, and vermilion and mixtures of tamarind seed, flower and leaf extracts.\n\nIkons are worshipped during special religious and cultural occasions such as child-birth, harvest, marriage and the construction of a new house. Ikons are not commissioned frequently and an existing one can be regularly used for mundane rituals. The building of a new dwelling however necessitates the commissioning of an ekon, which is painted in a dark corner inside the home where its creation is accompanied by the recital of a specific set of prayers. Traditionally, Kudangs, the priestly class among the Sauras, painted the ikons since they also had the expertise to explain the symbolic import of the images contained therein to the villagers. Thus the ikons also became a part of the aural tradition of the Sauras that linked them to their traditions and customs. Today the Kudangs have been supplanted by artists and paintings are often executed in non-traditional locales.\n\nSaura paintings have a striking visual semblance to Warli art and both use clear geometric frames for their construction but they differ in both their style and treatment of subjects. In Saura paintings, a fish-net approach - of painting from the border inwards - is used while this not the case with Warli paintings. Although both are examples of tribal pictographs that employ stick figures, Warli paintings use conjoint triangles to depict the human body while the figures are not as sharply delineated in Saura paintings. Also, unlike the Warli paintings where male and female icons are clearly distinguishable, in Saura art there is no such physical differentiation.\n\nTheir diversity, detail and unique style have given ikons an 'in-vogue-appeal' and increasing popularity in recent years. The influence of markets and increasing awareness about the other’s forms have led to both Saura and Warli paintings picking up details of technique and style from the other. They have also been popularised in recent times as an avenue for skill and job creation and have increasingly been used to decorate items like T-shirts, greeting cards, stationery and items of clothing.\n\n"}
{"id": "42988897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42988897", "title": "Societaetstheater", "text": "Societaetstheater\n\nThe Societaetstheater is the oldest popular theatre in Dresden, Germany. Founded in 1776 as an amateur theatre by a society of friends from both the nobility and the middle class, it was initially respected and influential but declined in the early 19th century after the fashion shifted to elaborate historical and verse dramas and the national theatre movement grew in importance, and was eventually dissolved in 1832. The Baroque building on Hauptstraße in the Innere Neustadt was abandoned for many years in the second half of the 20th century, but beginning in 1979, a movement grew to restore it. The theatre reopened in 1999 and is now operated by the city.\n\nAfter the end of the Seven Years' War in 1763, the theatrical landscape in Dresden shifted, with French actors being replaced by German, \"partly to save money, partly out of patriotism\". \"Reformed\" theatre groups such as that of Abel Seyler gained in respect against the court theatre, which was felt to be too focussed on spectacle, and the educated middle class began to emulate the amateur theatre of the aristocracy. \n\nOn 19 May 1776, a group of fifteen friends founded a society for the purpose of creating a private theatre in their leisure time, and the Societaetstheater was ceremoniously opened the same day, initially in a temporary home near the current location of the main station with a capacity of approximately 50 spectators. \n\nIn 1777, with the assistance of the publisher Conrad Georg Walter, the theatre moved to a larger building in Borngasse (near the current location of the German Hygiene Museum), but after Walter's death the following year, it moved again on 7 December 1779 to its current home, a garden building in the courtyard behind the residence of the government secretary Johann Christoph Hoffmann at Hauptstraße 19. This had been built in 1740 in Baroque style, intended for masquerades, but never used. It accommodated an audience of 250 and a 24-piece orchestra. The stage was small even then; it was illuminated with wax or tallow candles in special holders designed to reflect the light on the desired spot. The interior was by Johann Ludwig Giesel, who also designed the interior of the original Gewandhaus in Leipzig. The design for the curtain in 1779 was by Johann Eleazar Zeissig, known as Schenau, a director of the Dresden Academy of Fine Arts; it depicted, amongst genii and garlands of roses, scenes from Greek mythology, such as Thalia, the muse of comedy, showing a youth the way to the temple of virtue while a bacchante tried to draw him towards the temple of lust.\n\nThe society of friends of the theatre grew to fifty members, and by the end of the 18th century to more than 75. They belonged to both the nobility and the middle class and agreed to a 25-article constitution which included equality of members. Decisions and assignment of positions were voted on; five board members, a secretary and a cashier were elected, whose duties included determining the list of plays and assignment of roles.\n\nThe constitution divided the society's membership into active and passive members. The active members were overwhelmingly attached to the court of Saxony. For example, the privy advisor of the privy council, Hans Ernst von Teubern, translated scripts into German. The poet August Gottlieb Meißner used his influence within the society to secure performances of works by his friend Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Other members wrote plays themselves or, like the painter Ernst Ferdinand Oehme in the 19th century, performed on stage. Altogether between 20 and 30 of the members were active as performers, leading to frequent doubling of roles. The passive members included aristocratic patrons who funded needs such as costumes or the upkeep of the theatre. Such benefactors included Prince Charles of Saxony, Count Alois Friedrich von Brühl and Count Hans Moritz von Brühl.\n\nProductions took place mainly in the winter season, between September and early May. Like almost all other theatres, the Societaetstheater closed for Lent. However, performances also took place on Fridays and Sundays, which out of respect for religion were avoided by public theatres in Dresden until the early 19th century. Performances of the Societaetstheater were usually restricted to members' family, friends and acquaintances; a 1792 announcement speaks of each member receiving three tickets. Outsiders were admitted only in exceptional cases and after presenting a calling card.\n\nNonetheless, the theatre soon acquired a reputation extending outside Saxony. Productions were reported on in theatrical publications alongside those of the established court theatres and tours by well known companies. The persistence of the theatre was remarked on, since similar associations were at the time usually short-lived. It became a model which was emulated in various cities. In Dresden itself, where there were also two public theatres, a summer theatre, and touring productions, a second theatrical association, the Freundschaftliche Theater, was founded in 1787; since some of the members belonged to both, this was combined with the Societaetstheater in 1789. By 1802, there were a total of twelve other theatres in Dresden.\n\nThe Societaetstheater was originally entirely amateur. There is no record of any appearances by actors from public theatres until 1800. In the early 19th century this began to change, as upcoming actors increasingly discovered the theatre as a place to hone their talent. Actresses including Demoiselle Hartmann, the Weinhold sisters and Luise Wagner, sister of Richard Wagner, used the theatre to make the transition to professional careers. The years around 1800 also saw a generational shift from the founders to their successors, who chose the stage as their profession while retaining close ties to the Societaetstheater, where they had begun theur association with the theatre.\n\nThe bourgeois drawing-room dramas which dominated the repertoires of theatres of all sizes at the beginning of the 19th century made few demands in casting, time, settings or props. However, the general movement towards grand historical dramas, such as those by Goethe and Schiller, with their demanding costumes, complex verse which was difficult to memorise and to recite, and large casts, once more opened a gulf between professional and amateur drama. Dilettantism had a negative connotation; Goethe and Schiller themselves collaborated in the summer of 1799 on a compilation with that as its theme, \"\". The Societaetstheater produced simple dramas and comedies, some slapstick; no production of Goethe or Schiller there is recorded. The theatre's reputation waned, and as the national theatre movement gained in importance, it was excluded from the mainstream. Many of the upper middle class regarded amateur theatre as at best a \"harmless pleasure\" with no particular moral or aesthetic merit. Financial, social and political pressures led the Societaetstheater to close on 19 May 1832 and the society was dissolved.\n\nIn 1837 a building was erected beside the theatre, covering almost half the façade. A second storey and more windows were added to the building itself, and beginning in the second half of the 19th century, it was used as a residence. In the early 20th century, small handwork businesses moved into what had been the foyer; traces of metalworking remain. The premises were also reportedly used by a photographic studio and by the post office.\n\nThe building was not destroyed in the bombing of Dresden on 13 February 1945, but fell into increasing disrepair after the war. In the 1950s and 60s, urgently needed repairs were not made, and from the 1970s on, the building was abandoned. Despite the renovation of the Hauptstraße beginning in 1978, the intention was to gut and demolish the building. The architect Jürgen Mehlhorn, who had become interested in the building while still a student and was now using it to store material for the reconstruction of other buildings on the street, in 1979 designed a keystone for the main entrance at Hauptstraße 19 depicting two theatrical masks and with the inscription \"Societaetstheater 1715 1779 1979\". The association \"Interessengemeinschaft Societaetstheater\" was then founded; in 1992 this became \"Societaetstheater e.V.\" The association worked to preserve the building and raised money for urgent repairs such as roof work and provisional safety measures. In 1985, the building became a registered landmark of the German Democratic Republic. More extensive repairs were made in 1989. After German reunification in 1990, Dresdner Bank sponsored the building's restoration. The Dresden city council decided in October 1994 that the theatre would be operated by the city once restored, and work began in 1996.\n\nThe building was restored based on its original state, with the addition of an annexe containing a cellar theatre, a restaurant and five guest rooms. The adjoining Baroque garden, which had belonged to the sculptor Johann Benjamin Thomae amongst others, was also restored, and a restored pavilion by Thomae placed in the centre. The theatre had its ceremonial reopening on 19 February 1999.\n\nThe Societaetstheater today is a modern chamber theatre, accommodating spoken word, dance, music and puppet performances. Resident productions evolve by a workshop process harking back to the theatre's origins. Independent performers from the region as well as guest performers from Germany and other countries have appeared there. In addition to the main theatre and the cellar stage, performances may take place in the foyer and in the garden. It has served as one of the venues for the Jazztage Dresden festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "19898702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19898702", "title": "Society of Animal Artists", "text": "Society of Animal Artists\n\nThe Society of Animal Artists is an international organization for artists who paint, sculpt, or draw animals and wildlife, founded in 1960.\n\nThe Society of Animal Artists, Inc. (SAA) is \"devoted to promoting excellence in the portrayal of the creatures sharing our planet, and to the education of the public through its informative art seminars, lectures and teaching demonstrations. Some of the finest animal artists from the United States, Canada, Europe, Africa, Japan, and Australia are represented in the Society's membership.\" \n\nThe Society holds an annual exhibition, \"Art & the Animal\", which premieres at museum venues. A portion of the exhibition is shown on tour around the United States. Dr. David J. Wagner is the current Tour Director and Curator for the Society of Animal Artists. The Society celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2010 with their exhibition at the San Diego Natural History Museum in San Diego, CA. A complete history of the SAA's exhibition can be found on their website.\n\nThe Society of Animal Artists is recognized as a 501(c)3 charitable organization by the I.R.S. and all contributions to the Society are tax-deductible\"\n\nThe Society of Animal Artists is an organization of artists who produce the best animal art in the world. The mission of the Society of Animal Artists is to promote excellence in the portrayal of domesticated and wild animals in art. The upshot of this nexus of talent and mission, is that artworks created by members of the Society of Animal Artists have established new standards of excellence in fine art, and that the Annual Exhibition of the Society of Animal Artists and its traveling exhibition, Art and the Animal, have become the standard by which all others are measured. The Society of Animal Artists has an historical affinity with organizations that grew out of a movement to form associations and clubs dedicated to art in the 19th century. Like the National Academy of Design and other such organizations, the Society of Animal Artists is mandated by its bylaws to organize annual exhibitions to ensure new, strong and fresh artwork and afford its members with ample display opportunities. It is also worth noting that the Society of Animal Artists was founded in response to an exhibition entitled Animals in the Bronx Zoo, held at Burr Galleries in New York, because this established an historical affinity with the conservation movement, which various members have supported ever since, not only through the ecological message of their artwork but also through generous contributions and sales.\n\nIn the 1950s, individuals from the New York metropolitan area who liked to meet and paint at the Bronx Zoo together staged \"Animals in the Bronx Zoo\" at the Burr Gallery sponsored by the New York Zoological Society. Patricia Allen Bott and Guido Borghi were inspired to form the organization after an enthusiastic reception to this exhibition. The fledgling Society soon became a member of the renowned Salmagundi Club, and established an office in their building at 47 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY. Early Exhibitions were held in various galleries such as Sportsman’s Edge, Grand Central Art Galleries and the Alder Gallery (All in New York City). \nIn addition to Bott and Borghi, early members included: Elizabeth Rungius Felda [Sister of Carl Rungius], Paul Bransom, John Clymer, Gifford Cochran, Brenda Frey, Anna Hyatt Huntington, Gertude K. Lathrop, Robert Lougheed, Ugo Mochi, Clement Weisbecker and Walter Wilwerding.\n\nThe first SAA catalog, produced in 1978 for the exhibition at Sportsman’s Edge Gallery, consisted of 8 pages and was black and white. In 1979, the SAA had its first actual Annual Exhibition opening (again at Sportsman’s Edge), with formal programs and events. A 20 page black and white catalog was produced. In 1980, the \"Society of Animal Artists Exhibition/Convention\" was hosted by Game Conservation International at the Four Seasons Plaza Nacional Hotel, San Antonio, TX. A 28 page, black and white catalog was produced. The first four-color catalog (44 pages) was produced in 1990, for the 30th Annual Exhibition at St. Hubert’s Giralda, NJ.\n\nThe SAA has hosted annual exhibitions since 1960 with the exhibition first being named \"Art and the Animal\" in 1988. The first museum venue was the Academy of Sciences in Philadelphia in 1981. In 1988 the Society recruited David J. Wagner to create and manage tours of artworks selected from annual exhibitions and to secure hosts for its annual exhibitions. SAA exhibitions have been displayed throughout the United States, with approximately 70% of hosting venues having been art museums or general museums that have included art as an integral dimension of their core mission. Over the years, the SAA’s work has been on display at more than 100 different institutions across the United States—and once in Canada in 1995 at the Old Algonquin Museum, Algonquin Park, Ontario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11449159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11449159", "title": "South Australian Film Corporation", "text": "South Australian Film Corporation\n\nSouth Australian Film Corporation (SAFC) is a South Australian Government statutory corporation that was established in 1972.\n\nThe South Australian Film Corporation was founded as a production company in 1972. In 1994 it became the first state film corporation established in Australia. The success of its business model led other State Governments to establish similar bodies charged with the promotion of film production and fostering industry development. At the time of the Corporation's establishment, the Australian film industry was stagnating, and the Corporation played a significant role in the revival of Australian film making. Former State Premier Don Dunstan played an instrumental role in the foundation of the Corporation and its early film production activities.\n\nFrom its genesis, the SAFC collaborated with various government departments and agencies in the production of short documentaries and educational films. These included co-productions with the South Australian Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, Department of Marine & Harbors, the Education Department, the Office of Fair Trading, the Department of Housing, Urban and Regional Affairs and others.\n\nIn the 1980s, the SAFC shifted its focus to television production. It relocated to a disused Philips factory in Hendon in the north-west suburbs of Adelaide. Jock Bair was head of drama.\n\nUntil 1994, the Corporation was involved in the production of films and television programs. The television mini-series \"The Battlers\" was the last production produced by the SAFC. Since then, it has focused on supporting the production of films and television in South Australia, including providing funding and support, as well as making production and post-production facilities available.\n\nSince 1994, the role of the Corporation has changed to that of a production facilitator, so that it no longer engages in the production process itself. It facilitated the production of the Nine Network program \"McLeod's Daughters\" (2001-2009), which was filmed on location in rural South Australia.\n\nIn 2017, the Corporation announced that a new TV Series \"Soccer Swap\" was a co-production with Australia's 57 Films and China’s Qingdao TV.\n\nIn 2008, SA Premier and Arts Minister Mike Rann secured cabinet approval to fund the relocation of the SAFC, at a cost of A$43 million. The project included new sound stages and mixing suites, as well as a major refurbishment of a historic 19th century building as a high-tech film hub.\n\nIt moved its headquarters to Glenside, in the eastern suburbs, having taken over buildings previously occupied by a mental hospital. Its new Adelaide Studios have been the recipient of major funding from the South Australian Government. The new Adelaide Studios were opened by Premier Mike Rann on 20 October 2011. As of 2015, the Corporation continues to operate post-production facilities which have been used for a broad range of productions.\n\n\n\nThe Corporation's activities contributed to the rebuilding process undertaken by Australia's film industry. Besides its productions that had critical and commercial success, the Corporation's productions helped to launch the careers of many artists, including Peter Weir, Jack Thompson, Scott Hicks, Rolf de Heer, Mario Andreacchio, Bryan Brown, Geoffrey Rush and Bruce Beresford.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12510084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12510084", "title": "The Blessed Damozel", "text": "The Blessed Damozel\n\n\"The Blessed Damozel\" is perhaps the best known poem by Dante Gabriel Rossetti as well as the title of some of his best known paintings. The poem was first published in 1850 in the Pre-Raphaelite journal \"The Germ\". Rossetti subsequently revised the poem twice and republished it in 1856, 1870 and 1873. \n\nThe poem was partially inspired by Edgar Allan Poe's poem \"The Raven\", with its depiction of a lover grieving on Earth over the death of his loved one. Rossetti chose to represent the situation in reverse. The poem describes the damozel observing her lover from heaven, and her unfulfilled yearning for their reunion in heaven. \n\nThe poem also was the inspiration for Claude Debussy's \"La Damoiselle élue\" (1888), a cantata for two soloists, female choir, and orchestra.\n\nThe first four stanzas of the poem are inscribed on the frame of the painting.\n\n\"The Blessed Damozel\" is the only one of Rossetti's paired pictures and poems in which the poem was completed first. Friends and patrons repeatedly urged Rossetti to illustrate his most famous poem, and he finally accepted a commission from William Graham in February 1871. After the work was completed Graham requested a predella, the lower part of the painting, on December 31, 1877. His total cost was £1157. Alexa Wilding modelled the damozel in Paradise, Wilfred John Hawtrey modelled the child–angel, and the probable model for the left–hand angel was May Morris.\nAnother, later version is in the Lady Lever Art Gallery. \n\nFrederick Richards Leyland commissioned eighteen paintings from Rossetti, not counting unfulfilled commissions. Soon after Leyland acquired his first Rossetti painting, he and Rossetti explored the idea of a Rossetti triptych, which was eventually formed with \"Mnemosyne\", an 1879 replica of \"The Blessed Damozel\" painted by Rossetti himself, and \"Proserpine\". Three additional Rossetti paintings were then hung in Leyland's drawing room, all of which Leyland called \"stunners.\"\n\nSeveral pieces of music were based on the poem, including those for orchestra by Debussy, Granville Bantock (1891), Edgar Bainton (1907), Ernest Farrar (1907); for piano by Arnold Bax (1906); for string quartet by Benjamin Burrows (1927); and a 1928 choral by Julius Harrison. A 2007 modern popular song of the same name by Tangerine Dream appears on their album \"Madcap's Flaming Duty\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1789375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1789375", "title": "The Harvesters (painting)", "text": "The Harvesters (painting)\n\nThe Harvesters is an oil painting on wood completed by Pieter Bruegel the Elder in 1565. It depicts the harvest time which most commonly occurred within the months of August and September. Nicolaes Jonghelinck, a merchant banker and art collector from Antwerp, commissioned this painting.\n\nThe painting is one in a series of six works, five of which are still extant, that depict different times of the year. As in many of his paintings, the focus is on peasants and their work. Notably, some of the peasants are shown eating while others are harvesting wheat, a diachronic (relating to phenomena such as ideas, language, or culture, as they occur or change over a period of time) depiction of both the production and consumption of food. Pears can be seen on the white cloth in front of the upright sitting woman who eats bread and cheese while a figure in the tree to the far right picks pears. The painting shows a large number of activities representative of the 16th-century Belgian rural life. For example, on the far right a person is shaking apples from the tree. In the center left of the painting, a group of villagers can be seen participating in the blood sport of cock throwing.\n\nThe painting has been at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City since 1919. The Metropolitan Museum of Art calls this painting a “watershed in the history of Western art” and the “first modern landscape”. A sense of distance is conveyed by the workers carrying sheaves of wheat through the clearing, the people bathing in the pond, the children playing and the ships far away.\n\nThe surviving \"Months of the Year cycle\" are:\"The Gloomy Day\", \"The Hunters in the Snow\", and \"The Return of the Herd\" are on display in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. \"The Hay Harvest\" is on display in the Lobkowicz Palace in Prague.\n\nLegendary animation director, Hayao Miyazaki took inspiration from this painting for his short film \"Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1977859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1977859", "title": "The Incoherence of the Philosophers", "text": "The Incoherence of the Philosophers\n\nThe Incoherence of the Philosophers (تهافت الفلاسفة \"Tahāfut al-Falāsifaʰ\" in Arabic) is the title of a landmark 11th-century work by the Persian theologian Al-Ghazali and a student of the Asharite school of Islamic theology criticizing the Avicennian school of early Islamic philosophy. Muslim philosophers such as Ibn Sina (Avicenna) and Al-Farabi (Alpharabius) are denounced in this book. The belief that all causal events and interactions are not the product of material conjunctions but rather the immediate and present Will of God, underlies the work. The text was dramatically successful, and marked a milestone in the ascendance of the Asharite school within Islamic philosophy and theological discourse.\n\nThe book favors faith over philosophy in matters specifically concerning metaphysics or knowledge of the divine.\n\nThis book was preceded by a summary of Muslim philosophical thought titled: Aims of the philosophers (\"Maqasid al Falasifa\"). This book is the summary of Avicenna's philosophical doctrine. Al-Ghazali stated that one must be well versed in the ideas of the philosophers before setting out to refute their ideas.\n\nAl-Ghazali also stated that he did not find other branches of philosophy including physics, logic, astronomy or mathematics problematic. His only dispute was with metaphysics, in which he claimed that the philosophers did not use the same tools, namely logic, which they used for other sciences. \n\nThe work is organized into 20 chapters in which al-Ghazali attempts to refute Avicenna's doctrines.\n\nHe states that Avicenna and his followers have erred in seventeen points (each one of which he addresses in detail in a chapter, for a total of 17 chapters) by committing heresy. But in three other chapters, he accuses them of being utterly irreligious. Among the charges that he leveled against the philosophers is their inability to prove the existence of God and inability to prove the impossibility of the existence of two gods.\n\nThe twenty points are as follows:\n\nAmong the twenty points, al-Ghazali called out three which he charges not only constitute heresy, but also disbelief in Islam.\n\n\"The Incoherence of the Philosophers\" propounds the Asharite theory of occasionalism. Al-Ghazali wrote that when fire and cotton are placed in contact, the cotton is burned directly by God rather than by the fire, a claim which he defended using logic in Islamic philosophy.\n\nHe explained that because God is usually seen as rational, rather than arbitrary, his behavior in normally causing events in the same sequence (i.e., what appears to us to be efficient causation) can be understood as a natural outworking of that principle of reason, which we then describe as the laws of nature. Properly speaking, however, these are not laws of nature but laws by which God chooses to govern his own behaviour (his autonomy, in the strict sense) – in other words, his rational will.\n\nAl-Ghazali expresses his support for a scientific methodology based on demonstration and mathematics, while discussing astronomy. After describing the solar eclipse and the lunar eclipse, he writes:\n\nIn his defense of the Asharite doctrine of a created universe that is temporally finite, against the Aristotelian doctrine of an eternal universe, Al-Ghazali proposed the modal theory of possible worlds, arguing that their actual world is the best of all possible worlds from among all the alternate timelines and world histories that God could have possibly created. His theory parallels that of Duns Scotus in the 14th century. While it is uncertain whether Al-Ghazali had any influence on Scotus, they both may have derived their theory from their readings of Avicenna's \"Metaphysics\".\n\nIbn Rushd (Averroes) wrote a refutation of Al-Ghazali's work entitled \"The Incoherence of the Incoherence\" (\"Tahāfut al-Tahāfut\") in which he defends the doctrines of the philosophers and criticizes al-Ghazali's own arguments. It is written as a sort of dialogue: Averroes quotes passages by al-Ghazali and then responds to them. This text was not as well received by the wider Islamic audience. In the 15th century, a refutation of Ibn Rushd’s arguments in \"Tahāfut al-Tahāfut\" was written by a Turkic scholar Mustafā Ibn Yūsuf al-Bursawī, also known as Khwājah Zādā (d. 1487), who defended al-Ghazali's views. This once again indicated to Islamic scholars the weakness of human understanding and the strength of faith.\n\nAnother less critical response to Al-Ghazali's arguments was written by Ibn Rushd's predecessor Ibn Tufail (Abubacer) as part of his Arabic philosophical novel, \"Hayy ibn Yaqzan\" (later translated into Latin and English as \"Philosophus Autodidactus\"). Ibn Tufail cites al-Ghazali as an influence on his novel, especially his views on Sufism, but was critical of his views against Avicennism. Ibn al-Nafis later wrote another novel, \"Theologus Autodidactus\", as a response to Ibn Tufail's \"Philosophus Autodidactus\", defending some of al-Ghazali's views.\n\nAl-Ghazali's insistence on a radical divine immanence in the natural world has been posited as one of the reasons that the spirit of scientific inquiry later withered in Islamic lands. If \"Allah's hand is not chained\", then there was no point in discovering the alleged laws of nature. For example:\n\nThe Ottoman sultan Mehmed II (a.k.a. \"el-Fatih\") once commissioned two of the realm's scholars to write a book summarizing the ideas of the two great philosophers as to who won the debate across time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20678110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20678110", "title": "Timeline of twentieth-century theatre", "text": "Timeline of twentieth-century theatre\n\nThe following timeline of twentieth-century theatre offers a year-by-year account of the performance and publication of notable works of drama and significant events in the history of theatre during the 20th century. Musical theatre works are excluded from the list below.\n"}
{"id": "62107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62107", "title": "Trafalgar Square", "text": "Trafalgar Square\n\nTrafalgar Square ( ) is a public square in the City of Westminster, Central London, built around the area formerly known as Charing Cross. Its name commemorates the Battle of Trafalgar, a British naval victory in the Napoleonic Wars with France and Spain that took place on 21 October 1805 off the coast of Cape Trafalgar.\n\nThe site of Trafalgar Square had been a significant landmark since the 13th century and originally contained the King's Mews. After George IV moved the mews to Buckingham Palace, the area was redeveloped by John Nash, but progress was slow after his death, and the square did not open until 1844. The Nelson's Column at its centre is guarded by four lion statues. A number of commemorative statues and sculptures occupy the square, but the Fourth Plinth, left empty since 1840, has been host to contemporary art since 1999.\n\nThe square has been used for community gatherings and political demonstrations, including Bloody Sunday in 1887, the culmination of the first Aldermaston March, anti-war protests, and campaigns against climate change. A Christmas tree has been donated to the square by Norway since 1947 and is erected for twelve days before and after Christmas Day. The square is a centre of annual celebrations on New Year's Eve. It was well known for its feral pigeons until their removals in the early 21st century.\n\nTrafalgar Square is owned by the Queen in Right of the Crown and managed by the Greater London Authority, while Westminster City Council owns the roads around the square, including the pedestrianised area of the North Terrace. The square contains a large central area with roadways on three sides and a terrace to the north, in front of the National Gallery. The roads around the square form part of the A4, a major road running west of the City of London. The square was formerly surrounded by a one-way traffic system, but works completed in 2003 reduced the width of the roads and closed the northern side to traffic.\n\nNelson's Column is in the centre of the square, flanked by fountains designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens between 1937 and 1939 (replacements for two of Peterhead granite, now in Canada) and guarded by four monumental bronze lions sculpted by Sir Edwin Landseer. At the top of the column is a statue of Horatio Nelson, who commanded the British Navy at the Battle of Trafalgar.\n\nSurrounding the square are the National Gallery on the north side and St Martin-in-the-Fields Church to the east. Also on the east is South Africa House, and facing it across the square is Canada House. To the south west is The Mall, which leads towards Buckingham Palace via Admiralty Arch, while Whitehall is to the south and the Strand to the east. Charing Cross Road passes between the National Gallery and the church.\n\nLondon Underground's Charing Cross station on the Northern and Bakerloo lines has an exit in the square. The lines had separate stations, of which the Bakerloo line one was called Trafalgar Square until they were linked and renamed in 1979 as part of the construction of the Jubilee line, which was rerouted to Westminster in 1999. Other nearby tube stations are Embankment connecting the District, Circle, Northern and Bakerloo lines, and Leicester Square on the Northern and Piccadilly lines.\n\nLondon bus routes 3, 6, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15, 23, 24, 29, 53, 87, 88, 91, 139, 159, 176, 453 pass through Trafalgar Square.\n\nA point in Trafalgar Square is regarded as the official centre of London in legislation and when measuring distances from the capital.\n\nBuilding work on the south side of the square in the late 1950s revealed deposits from the last interglacial. Among the findings were the remains of cave lion, rhinoceros, straight-tusked elephant and hippopotamus.\n\nThe site of Trafalgar Square has been a significant location since the 13th century. During Edward I's reign, the area was the site of the King's Mews, running north from the original Charing Cross, where the Strand from the City met Whitehall coming north from Westminster. From the reign of Richard II to that of Henry VII, the mews was at the western end of the Strand. The name \"Royal Mews\" comes from the practice of keeping hawks here for moulting; \"mew\" is an old word for this. After a fire in 1534, the mews were rebuilt as stables, and remained here until George IV moved them to Buckingham Palace.\n\nAfter 1732, the King's Mews were divided into the Great Mews and the smaller Green Mews to the north by the Crown Stables, a large block, built to the designs of William Kent. Its site is occupied by the National Gallery. \n\nIn 1826 the Commissioners of H.M. Woods, Forests and Land Revenues instructed John Nash to draw up plans for clearing a large area south of Kent's stable block, and as far east as St Martin's Lane. His plans left open the whole area of what became Trafalgar Square, except for a block in the centre, which he reserved for a new building for the Royal Academy. The plans included the demolition and redevelopment of buildings between St Martin's Lane and the Strand and the construction of a road (now called Duncannon Street) across the churchyard of St Martin-in-the-Fields. The Charing Cross Act was passed in 1826 and clearance started soon after. Nash died soon after construction started, impeding its progress. The square was to be named for William IV commemorating his ascent to the throne in 1830. Around 1835, it was decided that the square would be named after the Battle of Trafalgar as suggested by architect George Ledwell Taylor, commemorating Nelson's victory over the French and Spanish in 1805 during the Napoleonic Wars.\nAfter the clearance, development progressed slowly. The National Gallery was built on the north side between 1832 and 1838 to a design by William Wilkins, and in 1837 the Treasury approved Wilkins' plan for the laying out of the square, but it was not put into effect. In April 1840, following Wilkins' death, new plans by Charles Barry were accepted, and construction started within weeks. For Barry, as for Wilkins, a major consideration was increasing the visual impact of the National Gallery, which had been widely criticised for its lack of grandeur. He dealt with the complex sloping site by excavating the main area to the level of the footway between Cockspur Street and the Strand, and constructing a high balustraded terrace with a roadway on the north side, and steps at each end leading to the main level. Wilkins had proposed a similar solution with a central flight of steps. Plinths were provided for sculpture and pedestals for lighting. All the stonework was of Aberdeen granite. In 1841 it was decided that two fountains should be included in the layout. The estimated budget, excluding paving and sculptures, was £11,000. The earth removed was used to level Green Park. The square was originally surfaced with tarmacadam, which was replaced with stone in the 1920s.\n\nTrafalgar Square was opened to the public on 1 May 1844.\n\nNelson's Column was planned independently of Barry's work. In 1838 a Nelson Memorial Committee had approached the government proposing that a monument to the victor of Trafalgar, funded by public subscription, should be erected in the square. A competition was held and won by the architect William Railton, who proposed a Corinthinan column topped by a statue of Nelson and guarded by four sculpted lions. The design was approved, but received widespread objections from the public. Construction went ahead beginning in 1840 but with the height reduced to . The column was completed and the statue raised in November 1843.\n\nThe last of the bronze reliefs on the column's pedestals was not completed until May 1854, and the four lions, although part of the original design, were only added in 1867. Each lion weighs seven tons. A hoarding remained around the base of Nelson's Column for some years and some of its upper scaffolding remained in place. Landseer, the sculptor, had asked for a lion that had died at the London Zoo to be brought to his studio. He took so long to complete sketches that its corpse began to decompose and some parts had to be improvised. The statues have paws that resemble cats more than lions.\n\nBarry was unhappy about Nelson's Column being placed in the square. In July 1840, when its foundations had been laid, he told a parliamentary select committee that \"it would in my opinion be desirable that the area should be wholly free from all insulated objects of art\".\n\nIn 1940 the Nazi SS developed secret plans to transfer Nelson's Column to Berlin after an expected German invasion, as related by Norman Longmate in \"If Britain Had Fallen\" (1972).\n\nThe square has been Grade I listed on the Register of Historic Parks and Gardens since 1996.\n\nA major 18-month redevelopment of the square led by W.S. Atkins with Foster and Partners as sub-consultants was completed in 2003. The work involved closing the eastbound road along the north side and diverting traffic around the other three sides of the square, demolishing the central section of the northern retaining wall and inserting a wide set of steps to the pedestrianised terrace in front of the National Gallery. The construction includes two lifts for disabled access, public toilets and a café. Access between the square and the gallery had been by two crossings at the northeast and northwest corners.\n\nBarry's scheme provided two plinths for sculptures on the north side of the square. A bronze equestrian statue of George IV by Sir Francis Chantrey, originally intended to be placed on top of the Marble Arch, was installed on the eastern plinth in 1844, while the other remained empty until late in the 20th century. There are two other statues on plinths, both installed during the 19th century: General Sir Charles James Napier by George Cannon Adams in the south-west corner in 1855, and Major-General Sir Henry Havelock by William Behnes in the south-east in 1861. In 2000, the Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, suggested replacing the statues with figures more familiar to the general public.\n\nIn the 21st century, the empty plinth in the north-west corner of the square, the \"Fourth Plinth\", has been used to show specially commissioned temporary artworks. The scheme was initiated by the Royal Society of Arts and continued by the Fourth Plinth Commission, appointed by the Mayor of London.\n\nThere are three busts of admirals against the north wall of the square. Those of Lord Jellicoe (by Sir Charles Wheeler) and Lord Beatty (by William MacMillan) were installed in 1948 in conjunction with the square's fountains, which also commemorate them. The third, of the Second World War First Sea Lord Admiral Cunningham (by Franta Belsky) was unveiled alongside them on 1967.\n\nOn the south side of Trafalgar Square, on the site of the original Charing Cross, is a bronze equestrian statue of Charles I by Hubert Le Sueur. It was cast in 1633, and placed in its present position in 1678.\n\nThe two statues on the lawn in front of the National Gallery are the statue of James II by Grinling Gibbons to the west of the portico, and of one George Washington, a replica of a work by Jean-Antoine Houdon, to the east. The latter was a gift from the Commonwealth of Virginia, installed in 1921.\n\nTwo statues erected in the 19th century have since been removed. One of Edward Jenner, pioneer of the smallpox vaccine, was set up in the south-west corner of the square in 1858, next to that of Napier. Sculpted by William Calder Marshall, it showed Jenner sitting in a chair in a relaxed pose, and was inaugurated at a ceremony presided over by Prince Albert. It was moved to Kensington Gardens in 1862. The other, of General Charles George Gordon by Hamo Thornycroft, was erected on an 18-foot high pedestal between the fountains in 1888. It was removed in 1943 and re-sited on the Victoria Embankment ten years later.\n\nIn 1841, following suggestions from the local paving board, Barry agreed that two fountains should be installed to counteract the effects of reflected heat and glare from the asphalt surface. The First Commissioner of Woods and Forests welcomed the plan because the fountains reduced the open space available for public gatherings and reduced the risk of riotous assembly. The fountains were fed from two wells, one in front of the National Gallery and one behind it connected by a tunnel. Water was pumped to the fountains by a steam engine housed in a building behind the gallery.\n\nIn the late-1930s it was decided to replace the pump and the centrepieces of the fountains. The new centrepieces, designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens, were memorials to Lord Jellicoe and Lord Beatty, although busts of the admirals, initially intended to be placed in the fountain surrounds were placed against the northern retaining wall when the project was completed after the Second World War. The fountains cost almost £50,000. The old ones were presented to the Canadian government and are now located in Ottawa's Confederation Park and Regina's Wascana Centre.\n\nA programme of restoration was completed by . The pump system was replaced with one capable of sending an jet of water into the air. A LED lighting system that can project different combinations of colours on to the fountains was installed to reduce the cost of lighting maintenance and to coincide with the 2012 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe square was once famous for feral pigeons and feeding them was a popular activity. Pigeons began flocking to the square before construction was completed and feed sellers became well known in the Victorian era. The desirability of the birds' presence was contentious: their droppings disfigured the stonework and the flock, estimated at its peak to be 35,000, was considered a health hazard. A stall seller, Bernie Rayner, infamously sold bird seed to tourists at inflated prices.\n\nIn February 2001, the sale of bird seed in the square was stopped and other measures were introduced to discourage the pigeons including the use of birds of prey. Supporters continued to feed the birds but in 2003 the mayor, Ken Livingstone, enacted bylaws to ban feeding them in the square. In September 2007 Westminster City Council passed further bylaws banning feeding birds on the pedestrianised North Terrace and other pavements in the area. Nelson's column was repaired from years of damage from pigeon droppings at a cost of £140,000.\n\nFor many years, revellers celebrating the New Year have gathered in the square despite a lack of celebrations being arranged. The lack of official events was partly because the authorities were concerned that encouraging more partygoers would cause overcrowding. Since 2003, a firework display centred on the London Eye and South Bank of the Thames has been provided as an alternative. Since 2014, New Year celebrations have been organised by the Greater London Authority in conjunction with the charity Unicef, who began ticketing the event to control crowd numbers.\n\nA Christmas ceremony has been held in the square every year since 1947. A Norway spruce (or sometimes a fir) is presented by Norway's capital city, Oslo as London's Christmas tree, a token of gratitude for Britain's support during World War II. (Besides war-time support, Norway's Prince Olav and the country's government lived in exile in London throughout the war.)\n\nThe Christmas tree is decorated with lights that are switched on at a seasonal ceremony. It is usually held twelve days before Christmas Day. The festivity is open to the public and attracts a large number of people. The switch-on is usually followed by several nights of Christmas carol singing and other performances and events. On the twelfth night of Christmas, the tree is taken down for recycling. Westminster City Council threatened to abandon the event to save £5,000 in 1980 but the decision was reversed.\n\nThe tree is selected by the Head Forester from Oslo's municipal forest and shipped, across the North Sea to the Port of Felixstowe, then by road to Trafalgar Square. The first tree was tall, but more recently has been around . In 1987, protesters chained themselves to the tree. In 1990, a man sawed into the tree with a chainsaw a few hours before a New Year's Eve party was scheduled to take place. He was arrested and the tree was repaired by tree surgeons who removed gouged sections from the trunk while the tree was suspended from a crane.\n\nThe square has become a social and political focus for visitors and Londoners, developing over its history from \"an esplanade peopled with figures of national heroes, into the country's foremost \"place politique\"\", as historian Rodney Mace has written. Since its construction, it has been a venue for political demonstrations. The great Chartist rally in 1848, a campaign for social reform by the working class began in the square. A ban on political rallies remained in effect until the 1880s, when the emerging Labour movement, particularly the Social Democratic Federation, began holding protests. On 1886 (also known as \"Black Monday\"), protesters rallied against unemployment leading to a riot in Pall Mall. A larger riot (\"Bloody Sunday\") occurred in the square on 1887.\n\nThe Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament's first Aldermaston March, protesting against the Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE), began in the square in 1958. One of the first significant demonstrations of the modern era was held in the square on 1961 by the Committee of 100, which included the philosopher Bertrand Russell. The protesters rallied for peace and against war and nuclear weapons. In March 1968, a crowd of 10,000 demonstrated against US involvement in the Vietnam War before marching to the American Embassy in Grosvenor Square.\nThroughout the 1980s, a continuous anti-apartheid protest was held outside South Africa House. In 1990, the Poll Tax Riots began by a demonstration attended by 200,000 people and ultimately caused rioting in the surrounding area. More recently, there have been anti-war demonstrations opposing the Afghanistan War and the Iraq War. A large vigil was held shortly after the terrorist bombings in London on Thursday, 2005.\n\nIn December 2009, participants from the Camp for Climate Action occupied the square for the two weeks during which the UN Conference on Climate Change took place in Copenhagen. It was billed as a UK base for direct action on climate change and saw various actions and protests stem from the occupation.\n\nIn March 2011, the square was occupied by a crowd protesting against the UK Budget and proposed budget cuts. During the night the situation turned violent as the escalation by riot police and protesters damaged portions of the square. In November 2015 a vigil against the terrorist attacks in Paris was held. Crowds sang the French national anthem, \"La Marseillaise\", and held banners in support of the city and country.\n\nEvery year on the anniversary of the Battle of Trafalgar (), the Sea Cadet Corps holds a parade in honour of Admiral Lord Nelson and the British victory over the combined fleets of Spain and France at Trafalgar. The Royal British Legion holds a Silence in the Square event on Armistice Day, 11 November, in remembrance of those who died in war. The event includes music and poetry readings, culminating in a bugler playing the Last Post and a two-minute silence at 11 am.\n\nIn the 21st century, Trafalgar Square has been the location for several sporting events and victory parades. In June 2002, 12,000 people gathered to watch the England national football team's World Cup quarter-final against Brazil on giant video screens which had been erected for the occasion. The square was used by the England national rugby union team on 2003 to celebrate their victory in the 2003 Rugby World Cup, and on 2005 for the England national cricket team's victory in the Ashes series.\n\nOn 6 July 2005 Trafalgar Square hosted the announcement of London's bid to host the 2012 Summer Olympics. A countdown clock was erected in March 2011, although engineering and weather-related faults caused it to stop a day later. In 2007, it hosted the opening ceremonies of the Tour de France and was part of the course for subsequent races.\n\nThe Sea Cadets hold an annual celebration of the Battle of Trafalgar victory along the square. The parade runs from Horse Guard's Parade, along Whitehall to Nelson's Column.\n\nAs an archetypal London location, Trafalgar Square featured in film and television productions during the Swinging London era of the late 1960s, including \"The Avengers\", \"Casino Royale\", \"Doctor Who\", and \"The Ipcress File\". It was used for filming several sketches and a cartoon backdrop in the BBC comedy series \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\". In May 2007, the square was grassed over with 2,000 square metres of turf for two days in a campaign by London authorities to promote \"green spaces\" in the city.\n\nIn July 2011, due to building works in Leicester Square, the world premiere of the final film in the \"Harry Potter\" series, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2\", was held in Trafalgar Square, with a red carpet linking the squares. Fans camped in Trafalgar Square for up to three days before the premiere, despite torrential rain. It was the first film premiere ever to be held there.\n\nA Trafalgar Square in Stepney is recorded in \"Lockie's Topography of London\", published in 1810. Trafalgar Square in Scarborough, North Yorkshire gives its name to the Trafalgar Square End at the town's North Marine Road cricket ground.\n\nNational Heroes Square in Bridgetown, Barbados, was named Trafalgar Square in 1813, before its better-known British namesake. It was renamed in 1999 to commemorate national heroes of Barbados. There is a life scale replica of the square in Bahria Town, Lahore, Pakistan where it is a tourist attraction and centre for local residents.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "29450481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29450481", "title": "Vox in Rama", "text": "Vox in Rama\n\nVox in Rama () is a papal bull issued by Pope Gregory IX in either 1232, 1233 or 1234 condemning a German heresy known as \"Luciferian\", a form of devil worship. The bull was issued to King Henry, son of Emperor Frederick II, in June 1233 and subsequently to Archbishop Siegfried III of Mainz demanding they use all efforts to stop the practice.\n\nThe 13th century was a time of great superstition and saw the start of the \"demonisation of heretics\" by the Church, attributing their lack of belief in the Catholic faith to the devil. Barber claims that it was during this time that there was a great zeal for the sending out of inquisitors by the pope and local bishops with the aim of seeking out potential heretics. In 1233, Konrad von Marburg (sometimes anglicized as Conrad of Marburg) began an inquisition in Mainz at the behest of either the Pope or the archbishop.\n\nAllegedly through torture and terror, Konrad reported he had uncovered a satanic cult which worshiped devils in the forms of a demonic man and of a diabolical black cat. The inquisition of Konrad was controversial: shortly after Konrad arrived in Mainz, a papal official called Bernard wrote to Gregory stating that Konrad had been forcing innocent people to confess by threatening them with burning at the stake if they refused to do so. Shortly thereafter, Konrad was assassinated, possibly by the servants of Henry II, Count of Sayn, whom Konrad had accused of fostering heresy.\n\nThe issue of the bull was a response to Konrad's allegations, urging Siegfried III and King Henry, representing the ecclesiastical and temporal authorities respectively, to seek out and destroy the heretics.\n\nThe bull describes in detail the initiation rites of the sect, claiming that the potential initiate is first approached by a mysterious toad as large as a dog. Shortly afterwards an emaciated pale man would appear, whom the initiate would kiss and thereby forget all memory of the Catholic faith. Members of the sect would then meet for a meal. When the meal had ended, the sect would arise and a statue of a black cat would come to life, walking backwards with its tail erect. First the new initiate and then the master of the sect would kiss the cat on the buttocks.\n\nAfter the ritual was completed, the bull claims that the candles in the room would be extinguished and the sect would engage in wild orgies which were sometimes homosexual in nature. Once the candles are re-lit, a man from a dark corner of the room “comes forth from the loins upward, shining like the sun. His lower part is shaggy like a cat.” After a brief litany-like dialogue between the cat and the cult members, the meeting ends.\n\nGregory also claims that the sect committed various crimes against the Eucharist:\n\nIn conclusion, Gregory condemns the practice and calls upon the religious and secular authorities in the diocese to take action against the cult's participants.\n\n\n\n"}
