{"id": "1699840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699840", "title": "Active listening", "text": "Active listening\n\nActive listening is a technique that is used in counseling, training, and solving disputes or conflicts . It requires that the listener fully concentrate, understand, respond and then remember what is being said. This is opposed to reflective listening where the listener repeats back to the speaker what they have just heard to confirm understanding of both parties.\n\nComprehension is shared meaning between parties in a communication transaction. This is the first step in the listening process. The second step is being able to take breaks between discernible words, or talking segmentation.\n\nRetaining is the second step in the process. Memory is essential to the listening process because the information retained when a person is involved in the listening process is how meaning from words is created. Because everyone has different memories, the speaker and the listener may attach different meanings to the same statement. However, memories are fallible, things like cramming may cause information to be forgotten.\n\nListening is an interaction between speaker and listener. It adds action to a normally passive process.\n\nActive listening involves the listener observing the speaker's behavior and body language. Having the ability to interpret a person's body language lets the listener develop a more accurate understanding of the speaker's message. Having heard, the listener may then paraphrase the speaker's words. It is important to note that the listener is not necessarily agreeing with the speaker—simply stating what was said.\n\nIndividuals in conflict often contradict each other. Ambushing occurs when one listens to someone else's argument for its weaknesses and ignore its strengths. This may include a distortion of the speaker's argument to gain a competitive advantage. On the other hand, if one finds that the other party understands, an atmosphere of cooperation can be created.\n\nIn the book \"Leader Effectiveness Training\", Thomas Gordon, who coined the term \"active listening\", states \"Active listening is certainly not complex. Listeners need only restate, in their own language, their impression of the expression of the sender. ... Still, learning to do Active Listening well is a rather difficult task ...\"\n\nActive listening is used in a wide variety of situations, including public interest advocacy, community organizing, tutoring, medical workers talking to patients, HIV counseling, helping suicidal persons, management, \ncounseling and journalistic settings. In groups it may aid in reaching consensus. It may also be used in casual conversation or small talk to build understanding, though this can be interpreted as condescending.\n\nA listener can use several degrees of active listening, each resulting in a different quality of communication.\n\nThe proper use of active listening results in getting people to open up, avoiding misunderstandings, resolving conflict, and building trust. In a medical context, benefits may include increased patient satisfaction, improved cross-cultural communication, improved outcomes, or decreased litigation.\n\nActive listening can be lifted by the active listening observation scale.\n\nSome barriers are due to hunger or fatigue of the listener, making them irritated and less inclined to listen to the speaker. Sometimes it is due to the language the speaker uses—such as high sounding and bombastic words that can lead to ambiguity. Other barriers include distractions, trigger words, vocabulary, and limited attention span. Listening barriers may be psychological (e.g., emotions) or physical (e.g., noise and visual distraction).\n\nShift response is the general tendency of a speaker in a conversation to affix attention to their position. This is a type of conversational narcissism—the tendency of listeners to turn the topic to themselves without showing sustained interest in others. A support response is the opposite of a shift response; it is an attention giving method and a cooperative effort to focus the conversational attention on the other person. Instead of being me-oriented like shift response, it is we-oriented. It is the response a competent communicator is most likely to use.\n\nIneffective listeners are unaware of non-verbal cues, though they dramatically affect how people listen. To a certain extent, it is also a perceptual barrier. Up to 93 percent of people's attitudes are formed by non-verbal cues. This should help one to avoid undue influence from non-verbal communication. In most cases, the listener does not understand the non-verbal cues the speaker uses. A person may show fingers to emphasize a point, but this may be perceived as an intent by the speaker to place their fingers in the listener's eyes. Overuse of non-verbal cues also creates distortion, and as a result listeners may be confused and forget the correct meaning.\n\nThe active listening technique is used to improve personal communications in organizations. Listeners put aside their own emotions and ask questions and paraphrase what the speaker says to clarify and gain a better understanding of what the speaker intends to say. Judging or arguing prematurely is a result of holding onto a strict personal opinion. This hinders the ability to be able to listen closely to what is being said. Eye contact and appropriate body languages are seen as important components to active listening. The stress and intonation may also keep them active and away from distractions.\n\nThere are several misconceptions about listening. One does not control what one \"hears\", whereas \"listening\" is an active process that constructs meaning from both verbal and nonverbal messages.\n\nActive Listening has been developed as a concept in music and technology by François Pachet, researcher at Sony Computer Science Laboratory, Paris. Active listening in music refers to the idea that listeners can be given some degree of control on the music they listen to, by means of technological applications mainly based on artificial intelligence and information theory techniques, by opposition to traditional listening, in which the musical media is played passively by some neutral device\n\nCarl Rogers and Richard Farson coined the term \"active listening\" in 1957 in a paper of the same title (reprinted in 1987 in the volume “Communicating in Business Today”). They write: \"Active listening is an important way to bring about changes in people. Despite the popular notion that listening is a passive approach, clinical and research evidence clearly shows that sensitive listening is a most effective agent for individual personality change and group development. Listening brings about changes in peoples’ attitudes toward themselves and others; it also brings about changes in their basic values and personal philosophy. People who have been listened to in this new and special way become more emotionally mature, more open to their experiences, less defensive, more democratic, and less authoritarian.\"\n\nA Munich-based marital therapy study conducted by Dr. Kurt Hahlweg and associates found that even after employing active listening techniques in the context of couple's therapy, the typical couple was still distressed.<br> Active listening was criticized by John Gottman's \"The Seven Principles for Making Marriage Work\" as being of limited usefulness: \n\nRobert F. Scuka defends active listening by arguing that: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51226068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51226068", "title": "Ajeya Sumargi", "text": "Ajeya Sumargi\n\nAjeya Raj Sumargi is the chairman of the Muktishree group of companies. He is also the executive director of the Nepal Satellite Telecom Pvt. Ltd. (Hello Nepal), which is a GSM based European JV cellular services provider company that was launched in 2007 February from the Mid-West region of Nepal.\n\nHe is also the promoting director of the telecommunication giant the Ncell Pvt. Ltd. (formerly Spice Nepal Pvt. Ltd.) with the brand name Mero Mobile now Ncell which started its operations with an investment of two billion.\n\nOn 22 December 2013 Sumargi announced at a press release that his company would invest 23 billion NRS. The investments would be made for Nepal Satellite Telecom, a new five star hotel and for the new cement plant.\n\nHis Muktishree group of companies has ventured into a social business. The group is all set to implement a project in partnership with Rural Shores, India and the Inclusive Ventures Limited that aims to empower Nepali rural youths through skill development training's and provide employment opportunities to some of them who excels during the training.\n\nSumargi handed over the newly constructed ‘Madhav Raj Smriti Bhawan’ to the Pashupati Nath Area Development Trust (PADT) through the Chief Guest then Prime Minister late Shusil Koirala during a special handing over ceremony on April 14, 2014 (Nepal New Year Baishakh 1, 2072). The building was constructed with the total budget of Rs 60.5 million by Sumargi in memory of his father Late Madhav Raj Sumargi. The Bhawan is built on 6.5 ropanis of land provided by the PADT.Prime Minister Sushil Koirala along with various leaders including former Prime Ministers Mr. Pushpa Kamal Dahal \"Prachand\", Mr. Madhav Kumar Nepal and late Kirti Nidhi Bista were present during the ceremony. The building includes three halls, of which two have a sitting capacity for 250 people and one with 500 or one 250 another 750 or 1,000 in one.\n\nSumargi's book \"Ajeya Raj SUMARGI\" co-authored by his younger brother Arun Raj Sumargi and Mr. Nirmal Kumar Thapa was released on 14 September 2016. For this book release special guest Vijay Jolly Indian senior BJP leader attended the program in the company of Swami Kamalnayan Acharya, head of the Sree Muktinath Teerath, Nepal. The book release program was attended by large gathering of Nepali intelligentsia in the compound of the Honorary Belarusian Consulate located in central Kathmandu.\n\nIn visit to Nepal in 2018, the Indian PM Narendra Modi was presented with 108 Saligram by business man Ajeya Raj Sumargi in Muktinath Temple of Mustang District (Salagrama or Shaligram refers to a fossilized shell used in South Asia as an iconic symbol and reminder of the God Vishnu as the Universal Principle by some Hindus. Shaligrams are usually collected from river-beds or banks such as the Gandaki river in Nepal)\n"}
{"id": "3348264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3348264", "title": "Amir Bhatia, Baron Bhatia", "text": "Amir Bhatia, Baron Bhatia\n\nAmirali Alibhai \"Amir\" Bhatia, Baron Bhatia, OBE (b. 18 March 1932) is a British businessman and politician.\n\nAn Ismaili Muslim born in East Africa, Bhatia was educated in schools in Tanzania and India. He is married to Nurnamu Amersi and has three daughters. He moved to the United Kingdom in 1972.\n\nBhatia was Chairman and managing director of Forbes Campbell International Ltd between 1980 and 2001. He was the co-founder of the Ethnic Minority Foundation and its chair until 2009, and also helped establish the Council of Ethnic Minority Voluntary Sector Organisations (CEMVO). He is additionally a former trustee of various charitable organisations, including the National Lottery Charities Board and Oxfam, serving as Chairman of Oxfam Trading.\n\nIn 2006 he was the chair of the British Edutrust foundation, the organisation planning to sponsor Rhodesway School. He stepped down from the post in March 2009.\n\nBhatia was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 1997 Birthday Honours. On 5 June 2001, he was created a life peer as Baron Bhatia, \"of Hampton in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames\", one of the first 'people's peers'. He sat in the House of Lords as a crossbencher. \n\nIn 2003 Lord Bhatia received the Beacon Fellowship Prize for his leadership role in countering social deprivation and exclusion in the UK and internationally.\n\nIn October 2010 Lord Bhatia was suspended for 8 months from the House of Lords due to the United Kingdom Parliamentary expenses scandal. After this, Lord Batia sits in the House of Lords as a non-affiliated member.\n\nIn December 2013, BBC Newsnight reported that Lord Bhatia had been accused by the Ethnic Minority Foundation of misappropriating £600,000 from the charity. Lord Bhatia is suing the charity for unfair dismissal, and his lawyers say that these allegations are confusing the historical position with the present dispute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5952193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5952193", "title": "Andrew Haldenby", "text": "Andrew Haldenby\n\nAndrew Haldenby is a co-founder of the think tank Reform (in 2001, with Nick Herbert), and has been its Director since May 2005. He is a trustee of the sister organisation of Reform, Reform Scotland. He was previously Communications Director at Business for Sterling (2000-2001), and Director of Studies at the Centre for Policy Studies (1998-1999). Before that he worked in the Conservative Research Department (1995-1997), ultimately as Head of the Political Section.\n\nHe is also the author of a chapter in \"The Future of the NHS\" edited by Dr Michelle Tempest.\n\nHaldenby studied history at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge (1990-1993).\n\n"}
{"id": "314927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314927", "title": "Andy Bechtolsheim", "text": "Andy Bechtolsheim\n\nBechtolsheim was born at Hängeberg am Ammersee, Bavaria, the second of four children. The isolated house had no television or close neighbors, so he experimented with electronics as a child. His family moved to Rome in 1963. Five years later, in 1968, the family relocated again, to Nonnenhorn on Lake Constance in Germany. Aged 16, he designed an industrial controller for a nearby company based on the Intel 8080 which he then programmed in binary code as he had no access to assemblers. Royalties from the product supported much of his education.\n\nAs an engineering student at Technical University of Munich Bechtolsheim entered the Jugend forscht contest for young researchers, and after entering for three years, won the physics prize in 1974.\n\nHe received a Fulbright Award and moved to the USA in 1975 to attend Carnegie Mellon University, where he received his master's degree in computer engineering in 1976. In 1977, he transferred to Stanford University and became a Ph.D. student in electrical engineering.\n\nAt Stanford, Bechtolsheim designed a powerful computer (called a workstation) with built-in networking called the SUN workstation, a name derived from the initials for the Stanford University Network. It was inspired by the Xerox Alto computer developed at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center. Bechtolsheim was a \"no fee consultant\" at Xerox, meaning he was not remunerated directly but had free access to the research being done there. At the time, Lynn Conway was using workstations to design very-large-scale integration (VLSI) circuits.\n\nBechtolsheim's advisor was Forest Baskett. In 1980, Vaughan Pratt also provided leadership to the SUN project. Support was provided by the Computer Science Department and DARPA. The modular computer was used for research projects such as developing the V-System, and for early Internet routers. Bechtolsheim tried to interest other companies in manufacturing the workstations, but only got lukewarm responses.\n\nOne of the companies building computers for VLSI design was Daisy Systems, where Vinod Khosla worked at the time. Khosla had graduated a couple of years earlier from the Stanford Graduate School of Business with Scott McNealy, who managed manufacturing at Onyx Systems. The three wrote a short business plan and quickly received funding from venture capitalists in 1982.\n\nBechtolsheim left Stanford to found the company, Sun Microsystems, as employee number one. Bill Joy, who was part of the team developing the BSD series of Unix operating systems, was the fourth member of the founding team. For a while Bechtolsheim and Joy shared an apartment in Palo Alto, California.\n\nThe first product, the Sun-1, included the Stanford CPU board design with improved memory expansion, and a sheet-metal case. By the end of the year, the experimental Ethernet interface designed by Bechtolsheim was replaced by a commercial board from 3Com.\n\nSun Microsystems had its Initial Public Offering in 1986 and reached $1 billion in sales by 1988. Bechtolsheim formed a project code-named UniSun around this time to design a small, inexpensive desktop computer for the educational market. The result was the SPARCstation 1 (known as \"campus\"), the start of another line of Sun products.\n\nIn 1995, Bechtolsheim left Sun to found Granite Systems, a Gigabit Ethernet startup focused on developing high-speed network switches. In 1996, Cisco Systems acquired the firm for $220 million, with Bechtolsheim owning 60%. He became Vice President and general manager of Cisco's Gigabit Systems Business Unit, until leaving the company in December 2003 to head Kealia, Inc.\n\nBechtolsheim founded Kealia in early 2001 with Stanford Professor David Cheriton, a partner in Granite Systems, to work on advanced server technologies using the Opteron processor from Advanced Micro Devices. In February 2004, Sun Microsystems announced it was acquiring Kealia in a stock swap. Due to the acquisition, Bechtolsheim returned to Sun again as senior vice president and chief architect. Kealia hardware technology was used in the Sun Fire X4500 storage product.\n\nAlong with Cheriton, in 2005 Bechtolsheim launched another high-speed networking company, Arastra. Arastra later changed its name to Arista Networks. Bechtolsheim left Sun Microsystems to become the Chairman and Chief Development Officer of Arista in October, 2008, but stated he still was associated with Sun in an advisory role.\n\nBechtolsheim co-founded HighBAR Ventures, an early-stage venture capital investment firm, along with two Sun colleagues: Bill Joy and Roy Sardiña. HighBAR's investments include Brocade, Tasmania Network Systems, Brightmail, and Regroup.\n\nBechtolsheim and Cheriton were two of the first investors in Google, investing US$100,000 each in September 1998. Bechtolsheim wrote the check to \"Google Inc\" prior to the company even being founded. Claims that Bechtolsheim coined the name \"Google\" is untrue. However, he did motivate the founders to officially organize the company under that name. When he gave the check to Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google's founders, they had not actually yet even been legally incorporated.\n\nAs a result of investments like these, Bechtolsheim was seen as one of the most successful \"angel investors\", particularly in areas such as electronic design automation (EDA), which refers to the software used by people designing computer chips. He has made a number of successful investments in EDA. In one such EDA company, Magma Design Automation, his stake was valued around $60 million.\n\nBechtolsheim invested in Tapulous, the maker of music games for the Apple iPhone. Tapulous was acquired by the Walt Disney Company in 2010. He joined George T. Haber, a former colleague at Sun, to invest in wireless chip company CrestaTech in 2006 and 2008.\n\nBechtolsheim invested in all of Haber's previous startups: CompCore purchased by Zoran, GigaPixel purchased by 3Dfx and Mobilygen purchased by Maxim Integrated Products in 2008, as well as Moovweb, a cloud-based interface for mobile and computer websites in 2009.\n\nHe was reportedly an early investor in Claria Corporation, which ceased operating in 2008. In 2012, Bechtolsheim invested in a Stanford incubated semantic web startup Diffbot.\n\nThat same year, he was voted by IT Pros in 2012 as the person who contributed most to server innovation in the last 20 years. Two prominent Open Compute innovation leaders will receive awards at Open Server/Open Storage Summit 2013.\n\nFrom 2015-17, Bechtolsheim was an investor in the Seed, Series A, and Series B rounds of PerimeterX, an automated attack mitigation SaaS awarded by Gartner as one of its 2017 Cool Vendors.\n\nBechtolsheim received a Smithsonian Leadership Award for Innovation in 1999, a Stanford Entrepreneur Company of the year award, and is a member of the National Academy of Engineering. Bechtolsheim gave the opening keynote speech at the International Supercomputing Conference in 2009.\n\nNever married, Bechtolsheim has not taken out United States citizenship. \"I continue to be a German citizen, so I am not an American national. My legal name is the same it always was. The problem with the von is that in America they combine the von title with the last name and my last name is really so long that it actually didn't fit in most computers anymore. So my middle initial is now v. for von and the last name is of course as it always was. That's the peculiarity of the American way of looking at German names.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163047", "title": "Barbara Bush", "text": "Barbara Bush\n\nBarbara Bush (née Pierce; June 8, 1925 – April 17, 2018) also known as the Bush Mother, was the First Lady of the United States from 1989 to 1993 as the wife of George H. W. Bush, who served as the 41st President of the United States, and founder of the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy. She previously was Second Lady of the United States from 1981 to 1989. Among her six children are George W. Bush, the 43rd President of the United States, and Jeb Bush, the 43rd Governor of Florida.\n\nBarbara Pierce was born in Flushing, New York, on June 8, 1925. She met George Herbert Walker Bush at the age of sixteen, and the two married in Rye, New York, in 1945, while he was on leave during his deployment as a Naval officer in World War II. They moved to Texas in 1948, where George later began his political career.\n\nBarbara Pierce was born at the Booth Memorial Hospital on East 15th Street in Manhattan, New York, on June 8, 1925, to Pauline (née Robinson) and Marvin Pierce. She was raised in the suburban town of Rye, New York. Her father later became president of McCall Corporation, the publisher of the popular women's magazines \"Redbook\" and \"McCall's\". She had two elder siblings, Martha and James, and a younger brother named Scott. Her ancestor Thomas Pierce Jr., an early New England colonist, was also an ancestor of Franklin Pierce, 14th president of the United States. She was a fourth cousin, four times removed, of Franklin Pierce and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.\n\nPierce and her three siblings were raised in a house on Onondaga Street in Rye. She attended Milton Public School from 1931 to 1937, Rye Country Day School until 1940 and later the boarding school Ashley Hall in Charleston, South Carolina, from 1940 to 1943. In her youth, Pierce was athletic and enjoyed swimming, tennis, and bike riding. Her interest in reading began early in life; she recalled gathering and reading with her family during the evenings.\n\nWhen Pierce was 16 and on Christmas vacation, she met George H. W. Bush at a dance at the Round Hill Country Club in Greenwich, Connecticut; he was a student at Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts. After 18 months, the two became engaged to be married, just before he went off to World War II as a Navy torpedo bomber pilot. He named three of his planes after her: \"Barbara,\" \"Barbara II\", and \"Barbara III\". When he returned on leave, she had discontinued her studies at Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts; two weeks later, on January 6, 1945, they were married at the First Presbyterian Church in Rye, New York, with the reception being held at The Apawamis Club.\n\nFor the first eight months of their marriage, the Bushes moved around the Eastern United States, to places including Michigan, Maryland, and Virginia, where George Bush's Navy squadron training required his presence.\n\nOver the next 13 years, George and Barbara Bush had six children who, among them, gave the couple a total of 14 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren:\n\n\nAfter the war ended, George and Barbara had their first child while George was a student at Yale University. The young family soon moved to Odessa, Texas, where George entered the oil business. In September 1949, Barbara's parents were in a car accident in New York and her mother was killed. Mrs. Bush was pregnant at the time with her second child, and was advised not to travel to attend the funeral. When the baby was born, she was named Pauline Robinson Bush in honor of Barbara's mother. The Bushes moved to the Los Angeles area for a time, and then to Midland, Texas in 1950. The Bushes would move some 29 times during their marriage. Over time, Bush built a business in the oil industry and joined with colleagues to start up the successful Zapata Corporation. Barbara raised her children while her husband was usually away on business. In 1953, the Bushes' daughter, Robin, died of leukemia.\n\nWhen their daughter Dorothy was born in August 1959, the Bushes moved from Midland to Houston. In 1963, George Bush was elected Harris County Republican Party chairman, in the first of what would become many elections. In 1964, he made his first run for a prominent political office—U.S. Senator from Texas. Although he lost the election, the exposure that the Bush family received put George and Barbara on the national scene.\n\nIn 1966, George Bush was elected as a U.S. Representative in Congress from Texas. Barbara raised her children while her husband campaigned and occasionally joined him on the trail. Over the ensuing years, George Bush was elected or appointed to several different positions in the U.S. Congress or the executive branch, or government-related posts, and Barbara Bush accompanied him in each case.\n\nAs the wife of a Congressman, Barbara immersed herself in projects that piqued her interest; the projects included various charities and Republican women's groups in Washington, D.C. Though her husband lost a second bid for the Senate in 1970, President Richard Nixon appointed him the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, which enabled Barbara to begin forming relationships in New York City with prominent diplomats. As the Watergate scandal heated up in 1973, Nixon asked Bush to become Chairman of the Republican National Committee; Barbara advised her husband to reject the offer because of the harsh political climate, but he accepted anyway.\n\nNixon's successor, Gerald R. Ford, appointed Bush head of the U.S. Liaison Office in the People's Republic of China in 1974, and the Bushes relocated. She enjoyed the time that she spent in China and often rode bicycles with her husband to explore cities and regions that few Americans had visited. Three years later, Bush was recalled to the U.S. to serve as Director of Central Intelligence during a crucial time of legal uncertainty for the agency. He was not allowed to share classified aspects of his job with Barbara; the ensuing sense of isolation, coupled with her perception that she was not achieving her goals while other women of her time were, plunged her into a depression. She did not seek professional help. Instead, she began delivering speeches and presentations about her time spent in the closed-off China, and volunteered at a hospice.\n\nBarbara Bush defended her husband's experience and personal qualities when he announced his candidacy for President of the United States in 1980. She caused a stir when she said that she supported ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment and was pro-choice on abortion, placing her at odds with the conservative wing of the Republican party, led by California Governor Ronald Reagan. Reagan earned the presidential nomination over her husband, who then accepted Reagan's invitation to be his running mate; the team was elected in 1980.\n\nBarbara Bush's eight years as Second Lady made her a household name. \nAfter her son Neil was diagnosed with dyslexia, she took an interest in literacy issues and began working with several different literacy organizations. She spent much time researching and learning about the factors that contributed to illiteracy—she believed homelessness was also connected to illiteracy—and the efforts underway to combat both. She traveled around the country and the world, either with the vice president on official trips or by herself. In 1984, she wrote a children's book, \"C. Fred's Story\", which recounted the adventures of a family as related by their cocker spaniel, C. Fred. She donated all of the book's proceeds to literacy charities.\n\nBy the mid-1980s, Bush was comfortable speaking in front of groups, and she routinely spoke to promote issues in which she believed. She became famous for expressing a sense of humor and self-deprecating wit. During the 1984 presidential campaign, Barbara made headlines when she told the press that she could not say on television what she thought of vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro, but \"it rhymes with rich\". After receiving criticism for the comment, Bush said she did not intend to insult Ferraro.\n\nIn 1988, Vice President Bush announced his candidacy for President to succeed the term-limited President Reagan. By this time, Barbara had experienced two presidential campaigns, but broke new ground by becoming the third candidate's spouse to speak at the national party convention that nominated her husband (after Eleanor Roosevelt in 1940 and Pat Nixon in 1972). She promised voters that she would be a traditional first lady and campaigned actively for her husband. The campaign at times focused on the large Bush family, and contrasted her with the First Lady, Nancy Reagan, by highlighting her interest in domestic staples such as church, gardening, and time spent with family while placing less emphasis on style sense and fashion; she drew attention to both her famous white hair and disinterest in wearing designer clothes. She generally avoided discussion of political issues during the campaign, particularly those on which she and her husband differed, and those closely involved with the campaign have reported that she was actively involved in campaign strategy. Bush was elected in November 1988 and sworn in on January 20, 1989.\n\nFamily literacy was Barbara Bush's cause as First Lady, and she called it \"the most important issue we have\". She became involved with many literacy organizations, served on literacy committees and chaired many reading organizations. Eventually, she helped develop the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy. She continued to be dedicated to eliminating the generational cycle of illiteracy in America by supporting programs where parents and their young children are able to learn together. During the early 1980s, after statistics had shown that foreign-born immigrants from Latin America had nearly quintupled just since 1960, statistics showed that 35 million adults could not read above the eighth-grade level and that 23 million were not able to read beyond a fourth-grade level. Mrs. Bush appeared on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" to discuss the situation and spoke regularly on \"Mrs. Bush's Story Time\", a national radio program that stressed the importance of reading aloud to children. Her children Jeb Bush and Dorothy Bush Koch serve as co-chairs of the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy. During her lifetime Mrs. Bush remained active in the foundation and served as honorary chair.\n\nPresident Donald Trump made a statement declaring, \"Amongst [Mrs. Bush's] greatest achievements was recognizing the importance of literacy as a fundamental family value that requires nurturing and protection.\"\n\nShe was active in the White House Historical Association and worked to revitalize the White House Preservation Fund, which she renamed the White House Endowment Trust. The trust raises funds for the ongoing refurbishment and restoration of the White House. She met her goal of raising $25 million towards the endowment. The White House residence staff generally found Barbara Bush to be the friendliest and most easygoing of the First Ladies with whom they dealt.\n\nBarbara Bush became the first U.S. First Lady to become a recipient of the Henry G. Freeman Jr. Pin Money Fund, receiving $36,000, most of which she gave to favorite charities.\n\nBush was known for her affection for her pet English Springer Spaniel Millie and wrote a children's book about Millie's new litter of puppies. She even included Millie in her official white house portrait, painted by Candace Whittemore Lovely.\nShe was struck every day by \"how much things had changed\" for her and her husband since they became President and First Lady. In place of a limousine, Bush tried to use a smaller car and travel by train and commercial aircraft for out-of-town trips. The heads of Bush's Secret Service detail were partially opposed to her wishes; the agents agreed to the small car but did not approve of the commercial air and train travel. At that time, the number of threats to the First Lady was higher than that of the vice president. Bush still wanted to use public transportation despite the opposition of the Secret Service. She was put-off by the fact that her flights would be delayed while agents checked out the planes and luggage. The plane on which Bush traveled was nicknamed \"Bright Star,\" in honor of the leukemia foundation her husband and Hugh Liedtke founded after her daughter Robin died.\n\nShe gave the Wellesley College commencement address in 1990; her speech was listed as #45 in American Rhetoric's Top 100 Speeches of the 20th Century (listed by rank).\n\nDuring her husband's 1992 presidential campaign, Barbara Bush stated that abortion and homosexuality are personal matters and argued that the Republican Party should not take a stand on it, saying that \"The personal things should be left out of, in my opinion, platforms and conventions.\" Her personal views on abortion were not known, although her friends reported at that time that she \"privately supported abortion rights\". She explained, \"I hate abortions, but I just could not make that choice for someone else.\"\n\nIn March 1989, she disclosed that she was suffering from Graves' disease, which is an overactive thyroid ailment; the condition coincidentally affected her husband. It is rare for two biologically unrelated people in the same household to develop Graves disease within two years of each other. In June of that year, President Bush said of his wife that \"...she is doing just fine. And I think her doctors would say the same thing. She's got this Grave's disease under control.\"\n\nBush was more popular than her immediate predecessor Nancy Reagan and successor Hillary Clinton because she carefully \"avoided controversy\" and took very few public positions on contentious issues.\n\nAfter leaving the White House, she and her husband resided at the River Oaks community in Houston, Texas, and at the Bush compound in Kennebunkport, Maine. Bush described January 20, 1993, the day of Bill Clinton's inauguration, a \"tough day\" for her and her husband. After returning to Houston, the two were visited by their son, George W. Bush, and at that point, Bush realized that she had not cooked in 12 years. She had difficulty driving a car on her own, and she did not drive far from home for a long time; her husband warned people to get out of the way if they saw her car. A month after her husband left office in February 1993, Bush was surprised when her husband booked them on the \"Love Boat\" ship \"Regal Princess\". In April 1993, Bush and her husband had breakfast with the former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who was on an American speaking tour. Thatcher mentioned the most recent celebration of former President Ronald Reagan's birthday at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library and Museum, where he orated the same card twice. Bush read about the incident after Reagan was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, which she called a \"tragedy for both\" the Reagans.\nBush attempted to persuade her son George W. Bush not to run for Governor of Texas in the 1994 gubernatorial election. She was convinced that he could not defeat Ann Richards, but he went on to win the election. Several days after he was sworn in as Governor of Texas, she went to a Distinguished Speakers Event at the LBJ Library for Lady Bird Johnson. There, she was introduced by her son, the new Governor of Texas, and the following day, received a letter from him dated January 18, 1995, in which he asserted that he would not be governor had it not been for her and George H. W. Bush. Mrs. Bush described the letter as having \"moved\" both her and her husband. On September 3, 1995, the Bushes went to Vietnam. This was \"unbelievable\" to Barbara because she \"never expected to set foot in what had been North Vietnam. The Bushes first went to Hanoi and then to Ho Chi Minh City. They met with President Lê Đức Anh and party secretary Đỗ Mười. On September 28, 1995, the Bushes drove to Portland, Maine, for the announcement of the Barbara Bush Children's Hospital. Bush said her life was being stretched, adding, \"Long after I am gone this hospital will be there with my name.\" The Bushes visited the children there, and Mrs. Bush started to recall her daughter Robin after seeing them. The Bushes returned home early that month.\n\nBush campaigned for her son George W. Bush after he announced his presidential campaign in June 1999. Throughout the country, she met with women who supported his campaign, but she remained doubtful of his chances of winning. The resentment toward the campaign continued with her rejection any criticism of her son that was said in her presence. She refused to watch any of the debates, in contrast to her husband, who was willing to listen and watch every debate. This created friction between the couple.\n\nSeveral schools have been named for her: three primary schools and two middle schools in Texas and an elementary school in Mesa, Arizona. Also named for her is the Barbara Bush Library in Harris County, Texas, and the Barbara Bush Children's Hospital at Maine Medical Center in Portland, Maine. She served on the Boards of AmeriCares and the Mayo Clinic, and headed the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy.\n\nOn March 18, 2003—two days before the beginning of the 2003 invasion of Iraq—her son George W. Bush was President when ABC's \"Good Morning America\" asked her about her family's television viewing habits. She replied:\n\nI watch none. He [former President George H. W. Bush] sits and listens and I read books, because I know perfectly well that, don't take offense, that 90 percent of what I hear on television is supposition, when we're talking about the news. And he's not, not as understanding of my pettiness about that. But why should we hear about body bags and deaths, and how many, what day it's gonna happen, and how many this or that or what do you suppose? Or, I mean, it's not relevant. So, why should I waste my beautiful mind on something like that, and watch him suffer.\nBush was visiting a Houston relief center for people displaced by Hurricane Katrina when she told the radio program \"Marketplace\",\n\nAlmost everyone I've talked to says, 'We're gonna move to Houston.' What I'm hearing, which is sort of scary, is they all want to stay in Texas... Everybody is so overwhelmed by the hospitality, and so many of the people in the arenas here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this (as she chuckles slightly) is working very well for them.\n\nThe remarks generated controversy. In 2006, it was revealed that Barbara Bush donated an undisclosed amount of money to the Bush–Clinton Katrina Fund on the condition that the charity do business with an educational software company owned by her son Neil Bush.\nOn October 3, 2008, Barbara Bush and her husband George opened the \"George and Barbara Bush Center\" on the University of New England waterfront Biddeford Campus a few miles north of Walker's Point. The George and Barbara Bush Center lays the foundation for the heritage of Barbara Bush in New England and houses \"The Bush Legacy Collection\", material securing the Bush legacy in Maine, including memorabilia on loan from the George H. W. Bush Presidential Library at Texas A&M University. Particular attention is given to the family's New England heritage and to Barbara Bush's love for Maine.\n\nIn a November 2010 interview with Larry King, Bush was asked about former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. Bush remarked, \"I sat next to her once, thought she was beautiful, and I think she's very happy in Alaska, and I hope she'll stay there.\" Palin responded, \"I don't want to, sort of, concede that we have to get used to this kind of thing, because I think the majority of Americans don't want to put up with the blue-bloods—and I say it with all due respect, because I love the Bushes—but, the blue-bloods, who want to pick and choose their winners, instead of allowing competition to pick and choose the winners.\"\nBush was initially opposed to her son Jeb making a potential bid for the presidency; she believed that other families should have a try at the nation's highest office and that \"we've had enough Bushes\". However, she reversed her position and appeared in a campaign ad for him. Beginning in February 2016, she began campaigning for him in New Hampshire, an early voting state. Jeb Bush joked that a town hall meeting attended by his mother featured a larger gathering than town halls prior to her involvement. Concerning her son, she believed that Jeb was nearly too well-mannered, but also was confident that he is \"decent and honest, and everything we need in a president\". Bush weighed in on Donald Trump, who was Jeb's rival for the nomination. By her own admission, she said that she could not understand how women \"can vote for someone who said what he said about Megyn Kelly\". She also indicated that she had tired of Trump over the course of the campaign and due to her gender, she was \"not crazy about what he says about women\". During the CBS Republican debate in February 2016, Jeb defended his mother by saying she \"is the strongest woman I know\", to which Trump replied that Bush herself \"should be running\".\n\nBush and Abigail Adams are the only two women in United States history to have been both the wife of a president and the mother of a president.\n\nBush was diagnosed with Graves' disease in 1988. Later on, she suffered from congestive heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Bush was a heavy smoker for 25 years, quitting in 1968 when a nurse condemned her smoking in her hospital room after a surgery.\n\nIn November 2008, Bush was hospitalized for abdominal pains and underwent small intestine surgery. She underwent aortic valve replacement surgery in March 2009.\n\nBush was hospitalized with pneumonia on New Year's Eve 2013 and was released from the hospital a few days later.\n\nOn April 15, 2018, her family released a statement regarding her failing health stating that she had chosen to be at home with family, desiring \"comfort care\" rather than further medical treatment. According to family spokesman Jim McGrath, her decision came as a result of \"a series of recent hospitalizations\". \n\nBush died in her Houston home at the age of 92 on April 17, 2018. Her son George W. Bush tweeted, \"My dear mother has passed on at age 92. Laura, Barbara, Jenna, and I are sad, but our souls are settled because we know hers was [...] I'm a lucky man that Barbara Bush was my mother. Our family will miss her dearly, and we thank you all for your prayers and good wishes.\" President Donald Trump ordered flags to half-staff in Barbara Bush's memory, as he and First Lady Melania Trump sent condolences on the nation's behalf; saying: \"As a wife, mother, grandmother, military spouse, and former First Lady, Mrs. Bush was an advocate of the American family...She will be long remembered for her strong devotion to country and family...\" Former Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama also sent condolences. Some foreign leaders including Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and Russian President Vladimir Putin sent their condolences as well.\n\nHer funeral was held at St. Martin's Episcopal Church in Houston on April 21, 2018, with burial at the George Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas. Former Presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton, and fellow First Ladies Melania Trump, Michelle Obama, and Hillary Clinton were notable representatives who attended the service. Former British Prime Minister John Major and former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney were also in attendance.\n\nFollowing her death, a cartoon by Marshall Ramsey, of The Clarion-Ledger, was widely circulated, showing Barbara being greeted by her daughter Robin (who died of leukemia at age 3) upon her entry to heaven. The cartoon was shared by various people and relatives of the family, including George W.'s daughter, Jenna Bush Hager. She would be featured again in another Ramsey cartoon later on in December of that same year (following her husband George's death), where both she and Robin greeted George after he landed a TBM \"Avenger\" (the type of airplane he flew in the Navy during World War II) in heaven.\n\nIn 1982, Barbara Bush received the D.A.R. Medal of Honor from the Daughters of the American Revolution. She became a member in 1985 and continued her membership until her death.\n\nIn 1995, Bush received the Award for Greatest Public Service Benefiting the Disadvantaged, an award given out annually by Jefferson Awards. In 1997, she was the recipient of The Miss America Woman of Achievement Award for her work with literacy programs.\n\nIn 2016, she received honorary membership in Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Houston chapter.\n\nBarbara Bush Elementary School in the Parkway Villages neighborhood in Houston, operated by the Houston Independent School District, is named after her.\n\nBarbara Bush received honorary degrees from many institutions. These include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50178446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50178446", "title": "Brand Breakout", "text": "Brand Breakout\n\nBrand Breakout: How Emerging Market Brands Will Go Global is a book by Nirmalya Kumar and Jan-Benedict Steenkamp. This book looks at what emerging market brands need to do to succeed in global markets. It has been rated as one of the best business books of 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51991958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51991958", "title": "Byambasaikhan Bayanjargal", "text": "Byambasaikhan Bayanjargal\n\nByambasaikhan Bayanjargal is a Mongolian business executive specialized in energy, infrastructure and mining investment and financing. He played leading roles in closing several of Asia's landmark project finance transactions. He is known as the clean energy pioneer in Mongolia having successfully developed and commissioned the country's first utility scale wind power project. Byambasaikhan's interests are in areas of energy, clean energy and regional infrastructure connectivity.\n\nByambasaikhan is a Managing Partner of NovaTerra LLC, an investment and project management firm based in Ulaanbaatar. In 2015-2016, he was the CEO of Erdenes Mongol, Mongolia's sovereign wealth management company, where he chaired multiple mining company boards and was a board director of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, a world-class copper and gold mine managed by Rio Tinto.\n\nIn 2015, he was the Mongolian Government’s chief negotiator who ended a five-year dispute between the Government of Mongolia and Rio Tinto. This led to signing a $4.4 billion project finance deal with 20 leading banks to finance Oyu Tolgoi’s underground mine construction.\n\nFrom 2010-2013, Byambasaikhan served as CEO of Clean Energy LLC and then was promoted to CEO and Managing Director of Newcom Group, a Mongolian clean technology and infrastructure investor, where he managed and closed the financing ($120 million) for the first wind farm Salkhit / IPP in Mongolia with EBRD and FMO. He also chaired the board of Mobicom Corporation, the country's largest telecom and IT firm, a JV with Sumitomo and KDDI.\n\nByambasaikhan also chairs the Business Council of Mongolia, a leading business association of 260 international and national investors including GE, Rio Tinto, Engie and Sumitomo.\n\nByambasaikhan holds a Master of Arts in International Economics from George Washington University and a Bachelor of Arts degree in International Affairs from the National University of Mongolia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15796429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15796429", "title": "Carmen Ana Culpeper", "text": "Carmen Ana Culpeper\n\nCarmen Ana Culpeper served as the first female Secretary of the Puerto Rico Department of the Treasury during the administration of Governor Carlos Romero Barceló. During the governorship of Pedro Rosselló, she served as the president of the then government-owned Puerto Rico Telephone Company.\n\nIn addition to serving as Regional Director of the United States Small Business Administration, she served as a member of the Board of Directors of Centennial Corporation and of Banco Santander Puerto Rico.\n\nShe currently works as a financial consultant.\n\nCulpeper holds an MBA from the Wharton School of Business, University of Pennsylvania.\n"}
{"id": "5038308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5038308", "title": "Catherine Cranston", "text": "Catherine Cranston\n\nCatherine Cranston (27 May 1849 – 18 April 1934), widely known as Kate Cranston or Miss Cranston, was a leading figure in the development of tea rooms. She is nowadays chiefly remembered as a major patron of Charles Rennie Mackintosh and Margaret MacDonald, in Glasgow, Scotland. The name of \"Miss Cranston's Tea Rooms\" lives on in reminiscences of Glasgow in its heyday.\n\nHer father, George Cranston, was a baker and pastry maker and, in 1849, the year of her birth, he became proprietor of the \"Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway Chop House and Commercial Lodgings\" at No. 39 George Square in Glasgow city centre. The hotel was renamed the Royal Horse, then renamed again in May 1852 to become \"Cranston's Hotel and Dining Rooms\", offering: \nHer slightly older brother Stuart (1848–1921) became a tea dealer and, according to \"Glasgow in 1901\", was \"a pioneer of the business\" there of \"tea shops pure and simple\" who by 1901 had three such tearooms offering nothing more substantial to eat than a sandwich. Kate went on to create much more of a social facility.\n\nLike other cities in the United Kingdom, Glasgow was then a centre of the temperance movement which sought an alternative to male-centred pubs. Tea had previously been a luxury for the rich, but from the 1830s it was promoted as an alternative to alcoholic drinks, and many new cafés and coffee houses were opened, catering more for ordinary people. However it was not until the 1880s that tea rooms and tea shops became popular and fashionable.\n\nIn 1878 Miss Kate Cranston opened her first tearoom, the Crown Luncheon Room, on Argyle Street, Glasgow. She set high standards of service, food quality and cleanliness, and her innovation lay in seeing the social need for something more than a restaurant or a simple \"tea shop\", and in putting equal attention into providing amenities designed in the latest style. Her first tearoom was decorated in a contemporary baronial style. On 16 September 1886 she opened her Ingram Street tearoom and in 1888 commissioned George Walton to decorate a new smoking room in the Arts and Crafts style in one of her tea rooms.\n\nIn 1892 she became happily married to John Cochrane, but continued to trade under the name of \"Miss Cranston's Tearooms\". She opened new tearooms in Buchanan Street in 1897 (designed by George Washington Browne), expanded to take over the whole building in Argyle Street by 1898 (designed by H and D Barclay), then completed her chain of four establishments with the Willow Tearooms (by Charles Rennie Mackintosh) in Sauchiehall Street, opened in 1903.\n\nWhile other cities offered very expensive and very basic tea rooms by 1901, Kate Cranston set the standard in Glasgow for more welcoming establishments. Rooms were provided for ladies only and for gentlemen only, as well as luncheon rooms where they could dine together and smoking rooms and billiards rooms for the gentlemen. \"Miss Cranston's Tea Rooms\" became social centres for all, for business men and apprentices, for ladies and ladies' maids. The \"Ladies Rooms\" were a particular success, newly allowing respectable women to get out and meet together without male company. Unlike cafes or tearooms in other cities, there was no intrusive supervision and those having tea had an assortment of Scones and cakes to hand, with a discreet notice reminding newcomers to remember the amount consumed. At \"the accounting\", \"Glasgow in 1901\" reported, \"One states the amount of ones indebtedness, and receives a check therefor from the attendant maiden. This, with the corresponding coin or coins, one hands in at the pay-desk, and so home. Nothing could be simpler or less irritating.\"\n\nThe city was a centre of artistic innovation at the time, and the tearooms served as art galleries for paintings by the \"Glasgow Boys\". The architect Sir Edwin Lutyens visited the Buchanan Street tearoom in 1898, finding it \"just a little outré\", and wrote from there to his wife that \"Miss Cranston is now Mrs. Cochrane, a dark, fat wee body with black sparkling luminous eyes, wears a bonnet garnished with roses, and has made a fortune by supplying cheap clean goods in surroundings prompted by the New Art Glasgow School.\"\n\nTea rooms opened around the city, and in the late 1880s fine hotels elsewhere in Britain and in America began to offer tea service in tea rooms and tea courts. \"Glasgow in 1901\" reported that \"Glasgow, in truth, is a very Tokio for tea-rooms. Nowhere can one have so much for so little, and nowhere are such places more popular and frequented.\" and that \"It is not the accent of the people, nor the painted houses, nor yet the absence of Highland policemen that makes the Glasgow man in London feel that he is in a foreign town and far from home. It is a simpler matter. It is the lack of tea-shops.\" The original Sauchiehall Street tearoom building is presently being restored and is scheduled for reopening in 2018. It is planned to develop the adjacent building as a Mackintosh visitor centre. The 'Willow Tearooms' brand has been separated from the building and is now run privately at a location within a department store further along the street and at Buchanan Street adjacent to Miss Cranston's original premises. Both locations feature recreated Mackintosh furniture and interior features.\n\nGeorge Walton set up \"George Walton & Co, Ecclesiastical and House Decorators\" on the basis of his 1888 commission from Kate Cranston, and in 1896 was commissioned by her to design the interiors of new tearooms, designed and built by George Washington Browne of Edinburgh, at 91–93 Buchanan Street, which opened the following year. He was assisted in this by Charles Rennie Mackintosh who designed wall murals in the form of stencilled friezes depicting opposing pairs of elongated female figures surrounded by roses for the ladies' tearoom, the luncheon room and the smokers' gallery. \n\nKate Cranston expanded her first tearoom to take over the whole building at 114 Argyle Street and commissioned Walton to design a new more modern interior, which opened in 1898. Walton's work included fireplaces, stencilled wall murals and stained glass panels for the doors. In the luncheon room the murals and door panels had a rose pattern theme. The furniture was designed by Mackintosh, introducing for the first time his characteristic high-backed chairs.\n\nIn 1900 Kate Cranston gave Mackintosh the opportunity to redesign an entire room, at the Ingram Street tearoom. He had just recently married the artist Margaret MacDonald, and together they created the White Dining Room, including a hallway opening onto the street and divided off by a wooden screen with leaded glass panels, giving those entering glimpses into the room itself. His fame was spreading, and in 1902 \"The Studio\" wrote of \"Miss Cranston, whose tea-rooms, designed by Mr. Mackintosh, are reckoned by some of the pilgrims to Glasgow as one of the sights of the city.\"\n\nNext Kate Cranston gave Mackintosh the major commission for an entire building in Sauchiehall Street, again in collaboration with his wife Margaret MacDonald on designs for the interiors. Behind a strikingly simple new façade this building provided three interlinked main tearooms at the ground floor and on a first floor gallery, with steps from that leading up a further half-storey to the famous \"Room de Luxe\" stretching the width of the building above the main entrance and front tearoom.\n\nIn a humorous review of the new tearoom for the Glasgow \"Evening News\" titled \"Erchie in an Art Tea Room\", Neil Munro described the \"Room de Looks\": \n\nIn 1905 \"Dekorative Kunst\" featured a special issue about the Willow Tea Rooms written by Hermann Muthesius who advised that \"Today any visitor to Glasgow can rest body and soul in Miss Cranston's Tea Rooms and for a few pence drink tea, have breakfast and dream that he is in fairy land.\"\n\nAlthough the Willow Tearooms completed her chain, and remains the most famous of her tea rooms, Kate Cranston carried out several more projects, and Mackintosh provided increasingly innovative designs. In 1904 she commissioned him to carry out the redecoration and design of new furniture for the mansion of \"Hous'hill\" in Nitshill which was home to herself and her husband John Cochrane.\n\nMackintosh carried out further work on the Argyle Street tearoom in 1906 to design a basement conversion to form \"The Dutch kitchen\". He did further redesigns for rooms in the Ingram Street tearooms, creating the \"Cloister Room\" and the \"Chinese Room\" in 1911. The latter provides an exotic fantasy, with bright blue finished timber screens incorporating a cashier's kiosk, elaborate door lintels and dark blue finished furniture, all in Mackintosh's version of an oriental style.\n\nIn the same year Kate Cranston provided temporary \"Exhibition Cafes\" at the \"Scottish International Exhibition\", apparently set up and designed by Charles Rennie Mackintosh, though nothing is now known of his scheme for this. The menu card designed by Margaret MacDonald Mackintosh shows the name for the tearooms, \"The White Cockade\", but makes no visual connection with this reference to Jacobitism. It gives credit for supply of cakes to Miss Cranstons Bakery, 292 St Vincent St., Glasgow.\nIn 1916 Kate opened \"Cranston's Cinema De Luxe\" in an entertainment complex designed for her by the architect James Miller, occupying the third floor of a six-storey building in Renfield Street, Glasgow.\n\nIn 1917 Mackintosh carried out his last commission for Kate Cranston, and indeed one of his last architectural works to be constructed, with the design of an extension of the Willow Tea Rooms into the basement of the building next door to create \"The Dug Out\" in a style that anticipated Art Deco.\n\nKate Cranston was greatly distressed when her husband died in 1917. She sold off her tea rooms and other businesses, and withdrew from public life. She had no children, and when she died in 1934 her will left two-thirds of her estate to the poor of Glasgow.\n\nEven though Kate Cranston had sold her tea rooms off, the name \"Miss Cranston's Tea Rooms\" long remained a byword for quality and for memories of Glasgow's heyday at the turn of the century. By 1938 tea rooms at 43 Argyll Arcade, 28 Buchanan Street, Renfield Street and Queen Street were being run by \"Cranston's Tea Rooms Ltd.\" They went into liquidation in 1954 and their premises were sold on for other uses.\n\nThe Willow Tearooms were renamed, then in 1928 they were sold on to Daly's department store who incorporated the premises into their shop, keeping the Room de Luxe in operation as the department store tea room.\n\n\"Miss Cranston's Tearooms\" on Ingram Street continued in use as catering facilities from 1930 for \"Cooper's & Co.\", then in 1950 the rooms came into the ownership of Glasgow City Council and were used for storage and a souvenir shop. In 1971 the furnishings were removed into storage when the building was demolished, and they are now the only original set of Mackintosh tearoom interiors to survive. Ownership was transferred to Glasgow Museums in 1978, and after a further period of storage restoration work began in 1993. The \"Ladies' Luncheon Room\" was exhibited three years later, and the \"Chinese Room\" and \"Cloister Room\" have since been restored. The Glasgow Museums website reports that they are \"currently assessing what will be needed to research and preserve the Charles Rennie Mackintosh interiors of the Ingram Street Tearooms for future public display.\" and prospective plans now exist to install at least some of the interiors at the new V&A museum in Dundee.\nWhile Mackintosh's reputation was eclipsed by the 1920s, he was later recognised as a pioneer of modern architecture, particularly in terms of the exterior of the Willow Tea Rooms. In the 1960s a resurgence of interest in Art Nouveau brought him international fame, and the furniture and designs he and his wife created for Kate Cranston are now extremely valuable.\n\nWhen Daly's closed, the Willow Tea Rooms were restored to an approximation of their original appearance. Catering reopened in the Room de Luxe, later extending to the recreated Tea Gallery, and was so successful that the business opened a new tearoom on the first floor of a building in Buchanan Street, near the original Buchanan Street and Ingram Street tearooms, fitted out with replicas of the White Dining Room and the Chinese Room from the Ingram Street tearoom. Confusingly, it trades under the name of \"The Willow Tea Rooms\", as this now appears to be more familiar to visitors than Miss Cranston's name. \n\nHowever, these new tearooms draw renewed attention to the contribution Kate's patronage made to Mackintosh's work, and the impact she had on the social life of Glasgow is still remembered in popular books such as \"Tea at Miss Cranston's\".\n\nThe continuing interest in Miss Cranston is also reflected in the prices realised for items associated with her tearooms; for example ₤940 for six pieces of cutlery stamped Miss Cranston's.\n\nIn October 2018, it was announced that Cranston would feature on a design for The Royal Bank of Scotland £20 note to be circulated in 2020, the first woman other than Queen Elizabeth II to be depicted on a banknote of that denomination in that country (images of Nan Shepherd had been on a £5, Mary Somerville and Mary Slessor on a £10 and Elsie Inglis on a £50 in the past, while notes issued by English banks had already featured Elizabeth Fry, Florence Nightingale and Jane Austen).\n\n"}
{"id": "449182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449182", "title": "Chain store", "text": "Chain store\n\nA chain store or retail chain is a retail outlet in which several locations share a brand, central management, and standardized business practices. They have come to dominate the retail and dining markets, and many service categories, in many parts of the world. A franchise retail establishment is one form of chain store. In 2004, the world's largest retail chain, Walmart, became the world's largest corporation based on gross sales.\n\nIn 1792, Henry Walton Smith and his wife Anna established W.H. Smith as a news vending business in London that would become a national concern in the mid-19th century under the management of their grandson William Henry Smith. The firm took advantage of the by opening news-stands at railway stations beginning in 1848. The firm, now called WHSmith, had more than 1,400 locations as of 2017.\n\nIn the U.S., chain stores began with the founding of The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company (A&P) in 1859. Initially the small chain sold tea and coffee in stores located in New York City and operated a national mail order business. The firm grew to 70 stores by 1878 when George Huntington Hartford turned A&P into the country's first grocery chain. In 1900, it operated almost 200 stores.\n\nIsidore, Benjamin and Modeste Dewachter originated the idea of the chain department store in Belgium when they incorporated \"Dewachter frères\" (Dewachter Brothers) on January 1, 1875, three years before A&P began offering more than coffee and tea. The brothers offered ready-to-wear clothing for men and children and specialty clothing such as riding apparel and beachwear. Isidore owned 51% of the company, while his brothers split the remaining 49%. They started with four locations: the tiny crossroads village of Leuze, La Louvière and two at Mons. Under Isidore's (and later his son Louis') leadership, \"Maison Dewachter\" (House of Dewachter) would become one of the most recognized names in Belgium and France with stores in 20 cities and towns. Some cities had multiple stores, such as Bordeaux, France. Louis Dewachter also became an internationally known landscape artist, painting under the pseudonym Louis Dewis.\n\nBy the early 1920s, the U.S. boasted three national chains: A&P, Woolworth's, and United Cigar Stores. By the 1930s, chain stores had come of age, and stopped increasing their total market share. Court decisions against the chains' price-cutting appeared as early as 1906, and laws against chain stores began in the 1920s, along with legal countermeasures by chain-store groups.\n\nA chain store is characterised by the ownership or franchise relationship between the local business or outlet and a controlling business.\n\nWhile chains are typically \"formula retail\", a chain refers to ownership or franchise, whereas \"formula retail\" refers to the characteristics of the business. There is considerable overlap because key characteristic of a formula retail business is that it is controlled as a part of a business relationship, and is generally part of a chain. Nevertheless, most codified municipal regulation relies on definitions of formula retail (e.g., formula restaurants), in part because a restriction directed to \"chains\" may be deemed an impermissible restriction on interstate commerce (in the US), or as exceeding municipal zoning authority (i.e., regulating \"who owns it\" rather than the characteristics of the business). Non-codified restrictions will sometimes target \"chains\".\n\nA restaurant chain is a set of related restaurants in many different locations that are either under shared corporate ownership (e.g., McDonald's in the U.S.) or franchising agreements. Typically, the restaurants within a chain are built to a standard format through architectural prototype development and offer a standard menu and/or services.\n\nFast food restaurants are the most common, but sit-down restaurant chains (such as Timber Lodge Steakhouse, Buffalo Wild Wings, Outback Steakhouse, T.G.I. Friday's, Legal Sea Foods, Ruby Tuesday and Olive Garden) also exist. Restaurant chains are often found near highways, shopping malls and tourist areas.\n\nThe displacement of independent businesses by chains has sparked increased collaboration among independent businesses and communities to prevent chain proliferation. These efforts include community-based organizing through Independent Business Alliances (in the U.S. and Canada) and \"buy local\" campaigns. In the U.S., trade organizations such as the American Booksellers Association and American Specialty Toy Retailers do national promotion and advocacy. NGOs like the New Rules Project and New Economics Foundation provide research and tools for pro-independent business education and policy while the American Independent Business Alliance provides direct assistance for community-level organizing.\n\nA variety of towns and cities in the United States whose residents wish to retain their distinctive character—such as San Francisco; Provincetown, Massachusetts and other Cape Cod villages; Bristol, RI; McCall, Idaho; Port Townsend, Washington; Ogunquit, Maine; Windermere, Florida and Carmel-by-the-Sea, California—closely regulate, even exclude, chain stores. They don't exclude the chain itself, only the standardized formula the chain uses, described as \"formula businesses\". For example, there could often be a restaurant owned by McDonald's that sells hamburgers, but not the formula franchise operation with the golden arches and standardized menu, uniforms, and procedures. The reason these towns regulate chain stores is aesthetics and tourism. Proponents of formula restaurants and formula retail allege the restrictions are used to protect independent businesses from competition.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "39653636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39653636", "title": "Claudio Andrea Gemme", "text": "Claudio Andrea Gemme\n\nClaudio Andrea Gemme (Genoa, May 27, 1948) is an Italian manager, Chief Executive Officer and Legal Representative of Fincantieri SI\n\nCareer at present:\n\n"}
{"id": "7671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7671", "title": "Committee on Data for Science and Technology", "text": "Committee on Data for Science and Technology\n\nThe Committee on Data for Science and Technology (CODATA) was established in 1966 as an interdisciplinary committee of the International Council for Science. It seeks to improve the compilation, critical evaluation, storage, and retrieval of data of importance to science and technology.\n\nCODATA sponsors the CODATA international conference every two years.\n\nCODATA is best known for (and sometimes confused with) its Task Group on Fundamental Constants (TGFC). Established in 1969, its purpose is to periodically provide the international scientific and technological communities with an internationally accepted set of values of the fundamental physical constants and closely related conversion factors for use worldwide.\n\nThe first such CODATA set was published in 1973. Later versions are named based on the year of the data incorporated; the 1986 CODATA (published April 1987) used data up to 1 January 1986. All subsequent releases use data up to the \"end\" of the stated year, and are necessarily published a year or two later: 1998 (April 2000), 2002 (January 2005), 2006 (June 2008) and the sixth in 2010 (November 2012). The latest version is Version 7.0 called \"2014 CODATA\" published on 25 June 2015.\n\nThe CODATA recommended values of fundamental physical constants are published at the NIST Reference on Constants, Units, and Uncertainty.\n\nSince 1998, the task group has produced a new version every four years, incorporating results published up to the end of the specified year.\n\nIn order to support the upcoming redefinition of the SI base units, adopted at the 26th General Conference on Weights and Measures on 16 November 2018, CODATA made a special release that was published in October 2017.\nIt incorporates all data up to 1 July 2017, and determines the final numerical values of \"h\", \"e\", \"k\", and \"N\" that are to be used for the new SI definitions.\n\nThe next regular version, with a closing date of 31 December 2018, will be used to produce the new 2018 CODATA values that will be made available by the time the revised SI come into force on 20 May 2019. This is necessary because the redefinitions have a significant (mostly beneficial) effect on the uncertainties and correlation coefficients reported by CODATA.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "766527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766527", "title": "Corporate governance of information technology", "text": "Corporate governance of information technology\n\nInformation and technology (IT) governance is a subset discipline of corporate governance, focused on information and technology (IT) and its performance and risk management. The interest in IT governance is due to the ongoing need within organizations to focus value creation efforts on an organization's strategic objectives and to better manage the performance of those responsible for creating this value in the best interest of all stakeholders. It has evolved from The Principles of Scientific Management, Total Quality Management and ISO 9001 Quality management system.\n\nHistorically, board-level executives deferred key IT decisions to the company's IT management and business leaders. Short-term goals of those responsible for managing IT can be in conflict with the best interests of other stakeholders unless proper oversight is established. IT governance systematically involves everyone: board members, executive management, staff, customers, communities, investors and regulators. An IT Governance framework is used to identify, establish and link the mechanisms to oversee the use of information and related technology to create value and manage the risks associated with using information and technology.\n\nVarious definitions of IT governance exist. While in the business world the focus has been on managing performance and creating value, in the academic world the focus has been on \"specifying the decision rights and an accountability framework to encourage desirable behavior in the use of IT.\"\n\nThe IT Governance Institute's definition is: \"... leadership, organizational structures and processes to ensure that the organisation's IT sustains and extends the organisation's strategies and objectives.\"\n\nAS8015, the Australian Standard for Corporate Governance of Information and Communication Technology (ICT), defines Corporate Governance of ICT as \"The system by which the current and future use of ICT is directed and controlled. It involves evaluating and directing the plans for the use of ICT to support the organisation and monitoring this use to achieve plans. It includes the strategy and policies for using ICT within an organisation.\"\n\nThe discipline of information technology governance first emerged in 1993 as a derivative of corporate governance and deals primarily with the connection between an organisation's strategic objectives, business goals and IT management within an organization. It highlights the importance of value creation and accountability for the use of information and related technology and establishes the responsibility of the governing body, rather than the chief information officer or business management.\nThe primary goals for information and technology (IT) governance are to (1) assure that the use of information and technology generate business value, (2) oversee management's performance and (3) mitigate the risks associated with using information and technology. This can be done through board-level direction, implementing an organizational structure with well-defined accountability for decisions that impact on the successful achievement of strategic objectives and institutionalize good practices through organizing activities in processes with clearly defined process outcomes that can be linked to the organisation's strategic objectives.\n\nFollowing corporate governance failures in the 1980s, a number of countries established codes of corporate governance in the early 1990s:\n\nAs a result of these corporate governance efforts to better govern the leverage of corporate resources, specific attention was given to the role of information and the underpinning technology to support good corporate governance. It was soon recognized that information technology was not only an enabler of corporate governance, but as a resource, it was also a value creator that was in need of better governance.\n\nIn Australia, the AS8015 Corporate Governance of ICT was published in January 2005. It was fast-track adopted as ISO/IEC 38500 in May 2008.\n\nIT governance process enforces a direct link of IT resources & process to enterprise goals in line of strategy. There is a strong correlation between maturity curve of IT governance and overall effectiveness of IT.\n\nIT governance is often confused with IT management, compliance and IT controls. The problem is increased by terms such as \"governance, risk and compliance (GRC)\" that establish a link between governance and compliance. The primary focus of IT governance is the stewardship of IT resources on behalf of various stakeholders whose ranking is established by the organisation's governing body. A simple way to explain IT governance is: \"what\" is to be achieved from the leveraging of IT resources. While IT management is about \"planning, organizing, directing and controlling the use of IT resources\" (that is, the \"how\"), IT governance is about creating value for the stakeholders based on the direction given by those who govern. ISO 38500 has helped clarify IT governance by describing a model to be used by company directors.\n\nWhile directors are responsible for this stewardship it is not unusual that will delegate this responsibility to management (business and IT) who are expected to develop the necessary capability to deliver the performance expected. Whilst managing risk and ensuring compliance are essential components of good governance, the primary focus is on delivering value and managing performance (i.e. \"Governance, Value delivery and Performance management\" (GVP)).\n\nThere are quite a few supporting references that may be useful guides to the implementation of information and technology (IT) governance. Some of them are:\n\nOther frameworks offer a partial view on IT Management & IT Governance Processes:\n\nNon-IT specific frameworks of use include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3608404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3608404", "title": "Corruption", "text": "Corruption\n\nIn general, corruption is a form of dishonesty or criminal activity undertaken by a person or organization entrusted with a position of authority, often to acquire illicit benefit. Corruption may include many activities including bribery and embezzlement, though it may also involve practices that are legal in many countries. Political corruption occurs when an office-holder or other governmental employee acts in an official capacity for personal gain. Corruption is most commonplace in kleptocracies, oligarchies, narco-states and mafia states.\n\nCorruption can occur on different scales. Corruption ranges from small favors between a small number of people (petty corruption), to corruption that affects the government on a large scale (grand corruption), and corruption that is so prevalent that it is part of the everyday structure of society, including corruption as one of the symptoms of organized crime. Corruption and crime are endemic sociological occurrences which appear with regular frequency in virtually all countries on a global scale in varying degree and proportion. Individual nations each allocate domestic resources for the control and regulation of corruption and crime. Strategies to counter corruption are often summarized under the umbrella term anti-corruption.\n\nStephen D. Morris, a professor of politics, writes that political corruption is the illegitimate use of public power to benefit a private interest. Economist Ian Senior defines corruption as an action to (a) secretly provide (b) a good or a service to a third party (c) so that he or she can influence certain actions which (d) benefit the corrupt, a third party, or both (e) in which the corrupt agent has authority. Daniel Kaufmann, from the World Bank, extends the concept to include 'legal corruption' in which power is abused within the confines of the law—as those with power often have the ability to make laws for their protection. The effect of corruption in infrastructure is to increase costs and construction time, lower the quality and decrease the benefit.\n\nThe research work on social corruption developed at The Unicist Research Institute defines that corruption allows individuals to profit from the environment through illegitimate actions while they disintegrate the system they are part of.\n\nCorruption can occur on different scales. Corruption ranges from small favors between a small number of people (petty corruption), to corruption that affects the government on a large scale (grand corruption), and corruption that is so prevalent that it is part of the everyday structure of society, including corruption as one of the symptoms of organized crime.\n\nIncreasingly, a number of indicators and tools have been developed which can measure different forms of corruption with increasing accuracy.\n\nPetty corruption occurs at a smaller scale and takes place at the implementation end of public services when public officials meet the public. For example, in many small places such as registration offices, police stations, state licensing boards, and many other private and government sectors.\n\nGrand corruption is defined as corruption occurring at the highest levels of government in a way that requires significant subversion of the political, legal and economic systems. Such corruption is commonly found in countries with authoritarian or dictatorial governments but also in those without adequate policing of corruption.\n\nThe government system in many countries is divided into the legislative, executive and judiciary branches in an attempt to provide independent services that are less subject to grand corruption due to their independence from one another.\n\nSystemic corruption (or endemic corruption) is corruption which is primarily due to the weaknesses of an organization or process. It can be contrasted with individual officials or agents who act corruptly within the system.\n\nFactors which encourage systemic corruption include conflicting incentives, discretionary powers; monopolistic powers; lack of transparency; low pay; and a culture of impunity. Specific acts of corruption include \"bribery, extortion, and embezzlement\" in a system where \"corruption becomes the rule rather than the exception.\" Scholars distinguish between centralized and decentralized systemic corruption, depending on which level of state or government corruption takes place; in countries such as the Post-Soviet states both types occur.\nSome scholars argue that there is a negative duty of western governments to protect against systematic corruption of underdeveloped governments.\n\nCorruption can occur in any sector, whether they be public or private industry or even NGOs (especially in public sector). However, only in democratically controlled institutions is there an interest of the public (owner) to develop internal mechanisms to fight active or passive corruption, whereas in private industry as well as in NGOs there is no public control. Therefore, the owners' investors' or sponsors' profits are largely decisive.\n\nPublic corruption includes corruption of the political process and of government agencies such as the police as well as corruption in processes of allocating public funds for contracts, grants, and hiring. Recent research by the World Bank suggests that who makes policy decisions (elected officials or bureaucrats) can be critical in determining the level of corruption because of the incentives different policy-makers face.\n\nPolitical corruption is the abuse of public power, office, or resources by elected government officials for personal gain, by extortion, soliciting or offering bribes. It can also take the form of office holders maintaining themselves in office by purchasing votes by enacting laws which use taxpayers' money. Evidence suggests that corruption can have political consequences- with citizens being asked for bribes becoming less likely to identify with their country or region.\n\nThe political act of Graft (American English), is a well known and now global form of political corruption, being the unscrupulous and illegal use of a politician's authority for personal gain, when funds intended for public projects are intentionally misdirected in order to maximize the benefits to illegally private interests of the corrupted individual(s) and their cronies.\n\nThe Kaunas golden toilet case was a major Lithuanian scandal. In 2009, municipality of Kaunas (led by mayor Andrius Kupčinskas) ordered that a shipping container was to be converted into an outdoor toilet at a cost of 500'000 litas (around 150'000 euros). It was to also require 5'000 LTL (1'500 EUR) in monthly maintenance costs. At the same time when Kaunas \"golden toilet\" was built, Kėdainiai tennis club acquired a very similar, but more advanced solution for 4'500 EUR. Because of the inflated cost of the outdoor toilet was nicknamed \"golden toilet\". Despite the investment, the \"golden toilet\" remained closed for years due to the dysfunctionality and was a subject of a lengthy anti-corruption investigation into those who had created it and the local municipality even considered demolishing the building at one point. The group of public servants involved in the toilet's procurement received various prison sentences for recklessness, malfeasance, misuse of power and document falsifications in a 2012 court case, but were cleared of their corruption charges and received compensation, which pushed the total construction cost and subsequent related financial losses to 352'000 euros.\n\nVarious sources acclaim the Spanish People's Party – Partido Popular -, to be Europe's most corrupt party, with about yearly 45 billion euro worth of corruption.\n\nPolice corruption is a specific form of police misconduct designed to obtain financial benefits, personal gain, career advancement for a police officer or officers in exchange for not pursuing or selectively pursuing an investigation or arrest or aspects of the thin blue line itself where force members collude in lies to protect other members from accountability. One common form of police corruption is soliciting or accepting bribes in exchange for not reporting organized drug or prostitution rings or other illegal activities.\n\nAnother example is police officers flouting the police code of conduct in order to secure convictions of suspects—for example, through the use of falsified evidence. More rarely, police officers may deliberately and systematically participate in organized crime themselves. In most major cities, there are internal affairs sections to investigate suspected police corruption or misconduct. Similar entities include the British Independent Police Complaints Commission.\n\nJudicial corruption refers to corruption-related misconduct of judges, through receiving or giving bribes, improper sentencing of convicted criminals, bias in the hearing and judgement of arguments and other such misconduct.\n\nGovernmental corruption of judiciary is broadly known in many transitional and developing countries because the budget is almost completely controlled by the executive. The latter undermines the separation of powers, as it creates a critical financial dependence of the judiciary. The proper national wealth distribution including the government spending on the judiciary is subject to the constitutional economics.\n\nIt is important to distinguish between the two methods of corruption of the judiciary: the government (through budget planning and various privileges), and the private. Judicial corruption can be difficult to completely eradicate, even in developed countries.\nCorruption in judiciary also involves the government in power using the judicial arm of government to oppress the opposition parties in the detriments of the state.\n\nCorruption in education is a worldwide phenomenon. Corruption in admissions to universities is traditionally considered as one of the most corrupt areas of the education sector. Recent attempts in some countries, such as Russia and Ukraine, to curb corruption in admissions through the abolition of university entrance examinations and introduction of standardized computer-graded tests have largely failed. Vouchers for university entrants have never materialized. The cost of corruption is in that it impedes sustainable economic growth. Endemic corruption in educational institutions leads to the formation of sustainable corrupt hierarchies. While higher education in Russia is distinct with widespread bribery, corruption in the US and the UK features a significant amount of fraud. The US is distinct with grey areas and institutional corruption in the higher education sector. Authoritarian regimes, including those in the former Soviet republics, encourage educational corruption and control universities, especially during the election campaigns. This is typical for Russia, Ukraine, and Central Asian regimes, among others. The general public is well aware of the high level of corruption in colleges and universities, including thanks to the media. Doctoral education is no exception, with dissertations and doctoral degrees available for sale, including for politicians. Russian Parliament is notorious for \"highly educated\" MPs High levels of corruption are a result of universities not being able to break away from their Stalinist past, over bureaucratization, and a clear lack of university autonomy. Both quantitative and qualitative methodologies are employed to study education corruption, but the topic remains largely unattended by the scholars. In many societies and international organizations, education corruption remains a taboo.\nIn some countries, such as certain eastern European countries, some Balkan countries and certain Asian countries, corruption occurs frequently in universities. This can include bribes to bypass bureaucratic procedures and bribing faculty for a grade. The willingness to engage in corruption such as accepting bribe money in exchange for grades decreases if individuals perceive such behavior as very objectionable, i.e. a violation of social norms and if they fear sanctions regarding the severity and probability of sanctions.\n\nThe Teamsters (International Brotherhood of Teamsters) is an example of how the civil RICO process can be used. For decades, the Teamsters have been substantially controlled by La Cosa Nostra. Since 1957, four of eight Teamster presidents were indicted, yet the union continued to be controlled by organized crime elements. The federal government has been successful at removing the criminal influence from this 1.4 million-member union by using the civil process.\n\nThe history of religion includes numerous examples of religious leaders calling attention to corruption in the religious practices and institutions of their time. Jewish prophets Isaiah and Amos berate the rabbinical establishment of Ancient Judea for failing to live up to the ideals of the Torah. In the New Testament, Jesus accuses the rabbinical establishment of his time of hypocritically following only the ceremonial parts of the Torah and neglecting the more important elements of justice, mercy and faithfulness. In 1517, Martin Luther accuses the Catholic Church of widespread corruption, including selling of indulgences.\n\nIn 2015, Princeton University professor Kevin M. Kruse advances the thesis that business leaders in the 1930s and 1940s collaborated with clergymen, including James W. Fifield Jr., to develop and promote a new hermeneutical approach to Scripture that would de-emphasize the social Gospel and emphasize themes, such as individual salvation, more congenial to free enterprise.\n\n19th century German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer acknowledges that academics, including philosophers, are subject to the same sources of corruption as the society they inhabit. He distinguishes the corrupt \"university\" philosophers, whose \"real concern is to earn with credit an honest livelihood for themselves and ... to enjoy a certain prestige in the eyes of the public\" from the genuine philosopher, whose sole motive is to discover and bear witness to the truth.\n\nIn criminology, corporate crime refers to crimes committed either by a corporation (i.e., a business entity having a separate legal personality from the natural persons that manage its activities), or by individuals acting on behalf of a corporation or other business entity (see vicarious liability and corporate liability). Some negative behaviours by corporations may not be criminal; laws vary between jurisdictions. For example, some jurisdictions allow insider trading.\nPetróleo Brasileiro S.A. — Petrobras, more commonly known as simply Petrobras (), is a semi-public Brazilian multinational corporation in the petroleum industry headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The company's name translates to Brazilian Petroleum Corporation — Petrobras. The company was ranked #58 in the 2016 Fortune Global 500 list. It is being investigated over corporate and political collusion and corruption.\n\nOdebrecht is a privately held Brazilian conglomerate consisting of diversified businesses in the fields of engineering, real estate, construction, chemicals and petrochemicals. The company was founded in 1944 in Salvador da Bahia by Norberto Odebrecht, and the firm is now present in South America, Central America, North America, the Caribbean, Africa, Europe and the Middle East. Its leading company is . Odebrecht is one of the 25 largest international construction companies and is still led by Odebrecht family.\n\nThe firm's executives were examined during Operation Car Wash part of an investigation over Odebrecht Organization bribes to executives of Petrobras, in exchange for contracts and influence. Operation Car Wash is an ongoing criminal money laundering and bribes related corporate crime investigation being carried out by the Federal Police of Brazil, Curitiba Branch, and judicially commanded by Judge Sérgio Moro since March 17, 2014.\n\n\"Arms for cash\" can be done by either a state-sanctioned arms dealer, firm or state itself to another party it just in regards regards as only a good business partner and not political kindred or allies, thus making them no better than regular gun runners. Arms smugglers, who are already in to Arms trafficking may work for them on the ground or with shipment. The money is often laundered and records are often destroyed.\n\nIt often breaks UN, national or international law.\nPayment can also be in strange or indirect ways like arms paid for in post-war oil contracts, post-war hotel ownership, conflict diamonds, corporate shares or the long term post-war promises of superfus future contracts between the parties involved in it, etc...\nIn 2006 Transparency International ranked Angola a lowly 142 out of 163 countries in the Corruption Perception Index just after Venezuela and before the Republic of the Congo with a 2.2 rating. Angola was at 168th place (out of 178 countries) on Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), receiving a 1.9 on a scale from 0 to 10. On the World Bank's 2009 Worldwide Governance Index, Angola had done very poorly on all six aspects of governance assessed. While its score for political stability improved to 35.8 in 2009 (on a 100-point scale) from 19.2 in 2004, Angola earned especially low scores for accountability, regulatory standards, and rule of law. The score for corruption declined from an extremely low 6.3 in 2004 to 5.2 in 2009.\n\nThe country is regarded poorly and that corruption is wounding the economy badly despite the emerging oil industries wealth.\n\nThe Mitterrand–Pasqua affair, also known informally as Angolagate, was an international political scandal over the secret and illegal sale and shipment of arms from the nations of Central Europe to the government of Angola by the Government of France in the 1990s. It led to arrests and judiciary actions in the 2000s, involved an illegal arms sale to Angola despite a UN embargo, with business interests in France and elsewhere improperly obtaining a share of Angolan oil revenues. The scandal has subsequently been tied to several prominent figures in French politics.\n\n“Angolagate”, which was carried out and uncovered over the course of the 1990s. 42 individuals, including: 42 people, including Jean-Christophe Mitterrand, Jacques Attali, Charles Pasqua and Jean-Charles Marchiani, Pierre Falcone. Arcadi Gaydamak, Paul-Loup Sulitzer, Union for a Popular Movement deputy Georges Fenech, the son of Francois Mitterrand and a former French Minister of the Interior, were all charged, accused, indicted or convicted with illegal arms trading, tax fraud, embezzlement, money laundering and other crimes. \"\n\nIn systemic corruption and grand corruption, multiple methods of corruption are used concurrently with similar aims.\n\nBribery involves the improper use of gifts and favours in exchange for personal gain. This is also known as kickbacks or, in the Middle East, as baksheesh. It is the common form of corruption. The types of favours given are diverse and may include money, gifts, sexual favours, company shares, entertainment, employment and political benefits. The personal gain that is given can be anything from actively giving preferential treatment to having an indiscretion or crime overlooked.\n\nBribery can sometimes form a part of the systemic use of corruption for other ends, for example to perpetrate further corruption. Bribery can make officials more susceptible to blackmail or to extortion.\n\nEmbezzlement and theft involve someone with access to funds or assets illegally taking control of them. Fraud involves using deception to convince the owner of funds or assets to give them up to an unauthorized party.\n\nExamples include the misdirection of company funds into \"shadow companies\" (and then into the pockets of corrupt employees), the skimming of foreign aid money, scams and other corrupt activity.\n\nThe political act of Graft (American English), is a well known and now global form of political corruption, being the unscrupulous and illegal use of a politician's authority for personal gain, when funds intended for public projects are intentionally misdirected in order to maximize the benefits to illegally private interests of the corrupted individual(s) and their cronies.\n\nWhile bribery is the use of positive inducements for corrupt aims, extortion and blackmail centre around the use of threats. This can be the threat of violence or false imprisonment as well as exposure of an individual's secrets or prior crimes.\n\nThis includes such behavior as an influential person threatening to go to the media if they do not receive speedy medical treatment (at the expense of other patients), threatening a public official with exposure of their secrets if they do not vote in a particular manner, or demanding money in exchange for continued secrecy.\n\nInfluence peddling is the illegal practice of using one's influence in government or connections with persons in authority to obtain favours or preferential treatment for another, usually in return for payment.\n\nNetworking can be an effective way for job-seekers to gain a competitive edge over others in the job-market. The idea is to cultivate personal relationships with prospective employers, selection panelists, and others, in the hope that these personal affections will influence future hiring decisions. This form of networking has been described as an attempt to corrupt formal hiring processes, where all candidates are given an equal opportunity to demonstrate their merits to selectors. The networker is accused of seeking non-meritocratic advantage over other candidates; advantage that is based on personal fondness rather than on any objective appraisal of which candidate is most qualified for the position.\n\nAbuse of discretion refers to the misuse of one's powers and decision-making facilities. Examples include a judge improperly dismissing a criminal case or a customs official using their discretion to allow a banned substance through a port.\n\nFavouritism, nepotism and clientelism involve the favouring of not the perpetrator of corruption but someone related to them, such as a friend, family member or member of an association. Examples would include hiring or promoting a family member or staff member to a role they are not qualified for, who belongs to the same political party as you, regardless of merit.\n\nSome states do not forbid these forms of corruption.\n\nCorruption is strongly negatively associated with the share of private investment and, hence, it lowers the rate of economic growth.\n\nCorruption reduces the returns of productive activities. If the returns to production fall faster than the returns to corruption and rent-seeking activities, resources will flow from productive activities to corruption activities over time. This will result in a lower stock of producible inputs like human capital in corrupted countries.\n\nCorruption creates the opportunity for increased inequality, reduces the return of productive activities, and, hence, makes rentseeking and corruption activities more attractive. This opportunity for increased inequality not only generates psychological frustration to the underprivileged but also reduces productivity growth, investment, and job opportunities.\n\nAccording to a 2017 survey study, the following factors have been attributed as causes of corruption:\n\nR. Klitgaard postulates that corruption will occur if the corrupt gain is greater than the penalty multiplied by the likelihood of being caught and prosecuted:\n\nCorrupt gain > Penalty × Likelihood of being caught and prosecuted\n\nThe degree of corruption will then be a function of the degree of monopoly and discretion in deciding who should get how much on the one hand and the degree to which this activity is accountable and transparent on the other hand. Still, these equations (which should be understood in a qualitative rather than a quantitative manner) seem to be lacking one aspect: a high degree of monopoly and discretion accompanied by a low degree of transparency does not automatically lead to corruption without any moral weakness or insufficient integrity. Also, low penalties in combination with a low probability of being caught will only lead to corruption if people tend to neglect ethics and moral commitment. The original R.Klitgaard equation has therefore been amended by C. Stephan into:\n\nAccording to Stephan, the moral dimension has an intrinsic and an extrinsic component. The intrinsic component refers to a mentality problem, the extrinsic component to external circumstances like poverty, inadequate remuneration, inappropriate work conditions and inoperable or over-complicated procedures which demoralize people and let them search for \"alternative\" solutions.\n\nAccording to the amended Klitgaard equation, limitation of monopoly and regulator discretion of individuals and a high degree of transparency through independent oversight by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the media plus public access to reliable information could reduce the problem. Djankov and other researchers have independently addressed the important role information plays in fighting corruption with evidence from both developing and developed countries. Disclosing financial information of government officials to the public is associated with improving institutional accountability and eliminating misbehavior such as vote buying. The effect is specifically remarkable when the disclosures concern politicians’ income sources, liabilities and asset level instead of just income level. Any extrinsic aspects that might reduce morality should be eliminated. Additionally, a country should establish a culture of ethical conduct in society with the government setting the good example in order to enhance the intrinsic morality.\n\nCreating bottom-up mechanisms, promoting citizens participation and encouraging the values of integrity, accountability, and transparency are crucial components of fighting corruption. The implementation of the ALACs “Advocacy and Legal Advice Centres (ALACs)” has led to a significant increase in the number of citizen complaints against acts of corruption received and documented and also to the development of strategies for good governance by involving citizens willing to fight against corruption.\n\nThe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA, USA 1977) was an early paradigmatic law for many western countries i.e. industrial countries of the OECD. There, for the first time the old principal-agent approach was moved back where mainly the victim (a society, private or public) and a passive corrupt member (an individual) were considered, whereas the active corrupt part was not in the focus of legal prosecution. Unprecedented, the law of an industrial country directly condemned active corruption, particularly in international business transactions, which was at that time in contradiction to anti-bribery activities of the World Bank and its spin-off organization Transparency International.\n\nAs early as 1989 the OECD had established an ad hoc Working Group in order to explore \"...the concepts fundamental to the offense of corruption, and the exercise of national jurisdiction over offenses committed wholly or partially abroad.\"\nBased on the FCPA concept, the Working Group presented in 1994 the then \"OECD Anti-Bribery Recommendation\" as precursor for the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions which was signed in 1997 by all member countries and came finally into force in 1999. However, because of ongoing concealed corruption in international transactions several instruments of Country Monitoring have been developed since then by the OECD in order to foster and evaluate related national activities in combating foreign corrupt practices. One survey shows that after the implementation of heightened review of multinational firms under the convention in 2010 firms from countries that had signed the convention were less likely to use bribery.\n\nIn 2013, a document produced by the economic and private sector professional evidence and applied knowledge services help-desk discusses some of the existing practices on anti-corruption. They found:\n\nIn some countries people travel to corruption hot spots or a specialist tour company takes them on corruption city tours, as it is the case in Prague. Corruption tours have also occurred in Chicago, and Mexico City\n\nThough corruption is often viewed as illegal, there is an evolving concept of legal corruption, as developed by Daniel Kaufmann and Pedro Vicente. It might be termed as processes which are corrupt, but are protected by a legal (that is, specifically permitted, or at least not proscribed by law) framework.\n\nIn 1977 the USA had enacted the \"Foreign Corrupt Practices Act\" (FCPA) \"for the purpose of making it unlawful... to make payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business\" and invited all OECD countries to follow suit. In 1997 a corresponding OECD Anti-Bribery Convention was signed by its members.\n\n17 years after the FCPA enacting, a Parliamentary Financial Commission in Bonn presented a comparative study on legal corruption in industrialized OECD countries As a result, they reported that in most industrial countries even at that time (1994) foreign corruption was legal, and that their foreign corrupt practices had been diverging to a large extent, ranging from simple legalization, through governmental subsidization (tax deduction), up to extremes like in Germany where foreign corruption was fostered, whereas domestic was legally prosecuted.\nConsequently, in order to support national export corporations the Parliamentary Financial Commission recommended to reject a related previous Parliamentary Proposal by the opposition leader which had been aiming to limit German foreign corruption on the basis of the US FCPA.\nOnly after the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention came into force, did Germany withdraw the legalization of foreign corruption in 1999.\n\nThe Foreign corrupt practices of industrialized OECD countries 1994 (Parliamentary Financial Commission study, Bonn).\n\nBelgium: bribe payments are generally tax deductible as business expenses if the name and address of the beneficiary is disclosed. Under the following conditions kickbacks in connection with exports abroad are permitted for deduction even without proof of the receiver:\nIn the absence of the required conditions, for corporate taxable companies paying bribes without proof of the receiver, a special tax of 200% is charged. This special tax may, however, be abated along with the bribe amount as an operating expense.\n\nDenmark: bribe payments are deductible when a clear operational context exists and its adequacy is maintained.\n\nFrance: basically all operating expenses can be deducted. However, staff costs must correspond to an actual work done and must not be excessive compared to the operational significance. This also applies to payments to foreign parties. Here, the receiver shall specify the name and address, unless the total amount in payments per beneficiary does not exceed 500 FF. If the receiver is not disclosed the payments are considered \"rémunérations occult\" and are associated with the following disadvantages:\n\nJapan: in Japan, bribes are deductible as business expenses that are justified by the operation (of the company) if the name and address of the recipient is specified. This also applies to payments to foreigners. If the indication of the name is refused, the expenses claimed are not recognized as operating expenses.\n\nCanada: there is no general rule on the deductibility or non-deductibility of kickbacks and bribes. Hence the rule is that necessary expenses for obtaining the income (contract) are deductible. Payments to members of the public service and domestic administration of justice, to officers and employees and those charged with the collection of fees, entrance fees etc. for the purpose to entice the recipient to the violation of his official duties, can not be abated as business expenses as well as illegal payments according to the Criminal Code.\n\nLuxembourg: bribes, justified by the operation (of a company) are deductible as business expenses. However, the tax authorities may require that the payer is to designate the receiver by name. If not, the expenses are not recognized as operating expenses.\n\nNetherlands: all expenses that are directly or closely related to the business are deductible. This also applies to expenditure outside the actual business operations if they are considered beneficial as to the operation for good reasons by the management. What counts is the good merchant custom. Neither the law nor the administration is authorized to determine which expenses are not operationally justified and therefore not deductible. For the business expense deduction it is not a requirement that the recipient is specified. It is sufficient to elucidate to the satisfaction of the tax authorities that the payments are in the interest of the operation.\n\nAustria: bribes justified by the operation (of a company) are deductible as business expenses. However, the tax authority may require that the payer names the recipient of the deducted payments exactly. If the indication of the name is denied e.g. because of business comity, the expenses claimed are not recognized as operating expenses. This principle also applies to payments to foreigners.\n\nSwitzerland: bribe payments are tax deductible if it is clearly operation initiated and the consignee is indicated.\n\nUS: (rough résumé: \"generally operational expenses are deductible if they are not illegal according to the FCPA\")\n\nUK: kickbacks and bribes are deductible if they have been paid for operating purposes. The tax authority may request the name and address of the recipient.\"\n\nReferring to the recommendation of the above-mentioned Parliamentary Financial Commission's study, the then Kohl administration (1991–1994) decided to maintain the legality of corruption against officials exclusively in foreign transactions and confirmed the full deductibility of bribe money, co-financing thus a specific nationalistic corruption practice (§4 Abs. 5 Nr. 10 EStG, valid until March 19, 1999) in contradiction to the 1994 OECD recommendation. The respective law was not changed before the OECD Convention also in Germany came into force (1999).\nAccording to the Parliamentary Financial Commission's study, however, in 1994 most countries' corruption practices were not nationalistic and much more limited by the respective laws compared to Germany.\nParticularly, the non-disclosure of the bribe money recipients' name in tax declarations had been a powerful instrument for Legal Corruption during the 1990s for German corporations, enabling them to block foreign legal jurisdictions which intended to fight corruption in their countries. Hence, they uncontrolled established a strong network of clientelism around Europe (e.g. SIEMENS) along with the formation of the European Single Market in the upcoming European Union and the Eurozone.\nMoreover, in order to further strengthen active corruption the prosecution of tax evasion during that decade had been severely limited. German tax authorities were instructed to refuse any disclosure of bribe recipients' names from tax declarations to the German criminal prosecution. As a result, German corporations have been systematically increasing their informal economy from 1980 until today up to 350 bn € per annum (see diagram on the right), thus continuously feeding their black money reserves.\n\nIn 2007, Siemens was convicted in the District Court of Darmstadt of criminal corruption against the Italian corporation Enel Power SpA. Siemens had paid almost €3.5 million in bribes to be selected for a €200 million project from the Italian corporation, partially owned by the government. The deal was handled through black money accounts in Switzerland and Liechtenstein that were established specifically for such purposes.\nBecause the crime was committed in 1999, after the OECD convention had come into force, this foreign corrupt practice could be prosecuted. According to Bucerius Law School professors Frank Saliger and Karsten Gaede, for the first time a German court of law convicted foreign corrupt practices like national ones although the corresponding law did not yet protect foreign competitors in business.\n\nDuring the judicial proceedings however it was disclosed that numerous such black accounts had been established in the past decades.\n\nPhilosophers and religious thinkers have responded to the inescapable reality of corruption in different ways. Plato, in \"The Republic\", acknowledges the corrupt nature of political institutions, and recommends that philosophers \"shelter behind a wall\" to avoid senselessly martyring themselves.\n\n\"Disciples of philosophy ... have tasted how sweet and blessed a possession philosophy is, and have also seen and been satisfied of the madness of the multitude, and known that there is no one who ever acts honestly in the administration of States, nor any helper who will save any one who maintains the cause of the just. Such a savior would be like a man who has fallen among wild beasts—unable to join in the wickedness of his fellows, neither would he be able alone to resist all their fierce natures, and therefore he would be of no use to the State or to his friends, and would have to throw away his life before he had done any good to himself or others. And he reflects upon all this, and holds his peace, and does his own business. He is like one who retires under the shelter of a wall in the storm of dust and sleet which the driving wind hurries along; and when he sees the rest of mankind full of wickedness, he is content if only he can live his own life and be pure from evil or unrighteousness, and depart in peace and good will, with bright hopes.\"\n\nThe New Testament, in keeping with the tradition of Ancient Greek thought, also frankly acknowledges the corruption of the world (ὁ κόσμος) and claims to offer a way of keeping the spirit \"unspotted from the world.\" Paul of Tarsus acknowledges his readers must inevitably \"deal with the world,\" and recommends they adopt an attitude of \"as if not\" in all their dealings. When they buy a thing, for example, they should relate to it \"as if it were not theirs to keep.\" New Testament readers are advised to refuse to \"conform to the present age\" and not to be ashamed to be peculiar or singular. They are advised not be friends of the corrupt world, because \"friendship with the world is enmity with God.\" They are advised not to love the corrupt world or the things of the world. The rulers of this world, Paul explains, \"are coming to nothing\" While readers must obey corrupt rulers in order to live in the world, the spirit is subject to no law but to love God and love our neighbors as ourselves. New Testament readers are advised to adopt a disposition in which they are \"in the world, but not of the world.\" This disposition, Paul claims, shows us a way to escape \"slavery to corruption\" and experience the freedom and glory of being innocent \"children of God\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4152892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4152892", "title": "Domain engineering", "text": "Domain engineering\n\nDomain engineering, also called product line engineering, is the entire process of reusing domain knowledge in the production of new software systems. It is a key concept in systematic software reuse. A key idea in systematic software reuse is the domain. Most organizations work in only a few domains. They repeatedly build similar systems within a given domain with variations to meet different customer needs. Rather than building each new system variant from scratch, significant savings may be achieved by reusing portions of previous systems in the domain to build new ones.\n\nThe process of identifying domains, bounding them, and discovering commonalities and variabilities among the systems in the domain is called domain analysis. This information is captured in models that are used in the domain implementation phase to create artifacts such as reusable components, a domain-specific language, or application generators that can be used to build new systems in the domain.\n\nDomain engineering is designed to improve the quality of developed software products through reuse of software artifacts. Domain engineering shows that most developed software systems are not new systems but rather variants of other systems within the same field. As a result, through the use of domain engineering, businesses can maximize profits and reduce time-to-market by using the concepts and implementations from prior software systems and applying them to the target system. The reduction in cost is evident even during the implementation phase. One study showed that the use of domain-specific languages allowed code size, in both number of methods and number of symbols, to be reduced by over 50%, and the total number of lines of code to be reduced by nearly 75%.\n\nDomain engineering focuses on capturing knowledge gathered during the software engineering process. By developing reusable artifacts, components can be reused in new software systems at low cost and high quality. Because this applies to all phases of the software development cycle, domain engineering also focuses on the three primary phases: analysis, design, and implementation, paralleling application engineering. This produces not only a set of software implementation components relevant to the domain, but also reusable and configurable requirements and designs.\n\nGiven the growth of data on the Web and the growth of the Internet of Things, a domain engineering approach is becoming relevant to other disciplines as well. The emergence of deep chains of Web services highlights that the service concept is relative. Web services developed and operated by one organization can be utilized as part of a platform by another organization. As services may be used in different contexts and hence require different configurations, the design of families of services may benefit from a domain engineering approach.\n\nDomain engineering, like application engineering, consists of three primary phases: analysis, design, and implementation. However, where software engineering focuses on a \"single\" system, domain engineering focuses on a \"family\" of systems. A good domain model serves as a reference to resolve ambiguities later in the process, a repository of knowledge about the domain characteristics and definition, and a specification to developers of products which are part of the domain.\n\nDomain analysis is used to define the domain, collect information about the domain, and produce a domain model. Through the use of feature models (initially conceived as part of the feature-oriented domain analysis method), domain analysis aims to identify the common points in a domain and the varying points in the domain. Through the use of domain analysis, the development of \"configurable\" requirements and architectures, rather than \"static\" configurations which would be produced by a traditional application engineering approach, is possible.\n\nDomain analysis is significantly different from requirements engineering, and as such, traditional approaches to deriving requirements are ineffective for development of configurable requirements as would be present in a domain model. To effectively apply domain engineering, reuse must be considered in the earlier phases of the software development life cycle. Through the use of selection of features from developed feature models, consideration of reuse of technology is performed very early and can be adequately applied throughout the development process.\n\nDomain analysis is derived primarily from artifacts produced from past experience in the domain. Existing systems, their artifacts (such as design documents, requirement documents and user manuals), standards, and customers are all potential sources of domain analysis input. However, unlike requirements engineering, domain analysis does not solely consist of collection and formalization of information; a creative component exists as well. During the domain analysis process, engineers aim to extend knowledge of the domain beyond what is already known and to categorize the domain into similarities and differences to enhance reconfigurability.\n\nDomain analysis primarily produces a domain model, representing the common and varying properties of systems within the domain. The domain model assists with the creation of architectures and components in a configurable manner by acting as a foundation upon which to design these components. An effective domain model not only includes the varying and consistent features in a domain, but also defines the vocabulary used in the domain and defines concepts, ideas and phenomena, within the system. Feature models decompose concepts into their required and optional features to produce a fully formalized set of configurable requirements.\n\nDomain design takes the domain model produced during the domain analysis phase and aims to produce a generic architecture to which all systems within the domain can conform. In the same way that application engineering uses the functional and non-functional requirements to produce a design, the domain design phase of domain engineering takes the configurable requirements developed during the domain analysis phase and produces a configurable, standardized solution for the family of systems. Domain design aims to produce architectural patterns which solve a problem common across the systems within the domain, despite differing requirement configurations. In addition to the development of patterns during domain design, engineers must also take care to identify the scope of the pattern and the level to which context is relevant to the pattern. Limitation of context is crucial: too much context results in the pattern not being applicable to many systems, and too little context results in the pattern being insufficiently powerful to be useful. A useful pattern must be both frequently recurring and of high quality.\n\nThe objective of domain design is to satisfy as many domain requirements as possible while retaining the flexibility offered by the developed feature model. The architecture should be sufficiently flexible to satisfy all of the systems within the domain while rigid enough to provide a solid framework upon which to base the solution.\n\nDomain implementation is the creation of a process and tools for efficiently generating a customized program in the domain.\n\nLately, domain engineering has been criticized for focusing too much on \"engineering-for-reuse\" or \"engineering-with-reuse\" of generic software features rather than concentrating on \"engineering-for-use\" such that an individual's world-view, language, or context is integrated into the design of software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12093739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12093739", "title": "Downdraft table", "text": "Downdraft table\n\nDowndraft tables or downdraught benches are workbenchs with built-in ventilation to capture dust, smoke, and fumes and draw them away from the material being worked on. They typically consist of a perforated surface whose underside is connected to a ventilation or dust collection system, to draw material through the holes and away from the work.\n"}
{"id": "2846390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2846390", "title": "Easy Goer", "text": "Easy Goer\n\nEasy Goer (March 21, 1986 – May 12, 1994) was an American Champion Hall of Fame Thoroughbred racehorse known for earning American Champion Two-Year-Old Colt honors in 1988 and defeating 1989 American Horse of the Year Sunday Silence in the Belmont Stakes by eight lengths. Both horses were later voted into the American Hall of Fame. The victory deprived Sunday Silence of the Triple Crown. It was also the second-fastest Belmont in history, behind only the record performance of Secretariat in 1973. Easy Goer was the first two-year-old champion to win a Triple Crown race since Spectacular Bid in 1979. Easy Goer also ran the fastest mile on dirt by any three-year-old in the history of Thoroughbred racing with a time of 1:32 2/5, which was a second faster than Secretariat's stakes record, and one-fifth of a second off of the world record set by Dr. Fager in 1968.\n\nEasy Goer is the only horse in racing history to win the Belmont, Whitney, Travers, Woodward and Jockey Club Gold Cup and the only 3-year-old to win the Whitney, Woodward and Jockey Club Gold Cup while defeating older horses in the latter three. Easy Goer is one of only two horses to win the Champagne, Belmont, and Travers. He is also one of only two horses to notch a Travers, Whitney and Belmont Stakes triple, and the only one to do so in the same year. Additionally, he is one of only five horses to tally a Whitney-Travers double in the same year. Since 1919, Easy Goer is one of only ten horses to sweep the Belmont, Travers and Jockey Club Gold Cup. Since 1973, Easy Goer is one of only seven horses that have won three consecutive Grade I races longer than 1 1/8 miles on dirt (or synthetic). On the \"Blood-Horse\" List of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century, Easy Goer is ranked #34.\n\nBred and owned by Ogden Phipps, Easy Goer was a son of Alydar out of the 1981 American Champion Older Female Horse Relaxing (by Buckpasser). Trained by Shug McGaughey and ridden by Pat Day, the uncommonly muscular, big, powerful, long-striding chestnut colt with a white star won 14 of his 20 races, including nine Grade I wins from distances of seven to twelve furlongs, and placed second five times. Easy Goer's racing career was also marked by his closely matched rivalry with Sunday Silence, who held a three to one edge in their head to head races. Easy Goer defeated Sunday Silence by eight lengths in the Belmont and finished second to him in the Kentucky Derby by two and a half lengths, Preakness by a nose and Breeders' Cup Classic by a neck. Both horses were later voted into the American Hall of Fame. McGaughey described Easy Goer as, \"a big, strong horse, and jockey Pat Day helped him by not crucifying him in his races and bringing me back something. He had soundness problems, but we stayed on top of it. His action was so athletic, so natural, so fluid; he glided over the track; he ran very fast and did it so easily. He captured the public; he was a brilliantly fast horse, exciting to watch, and he had a great following. I had always dreamed of having a horse like Easy Goer. Easy Goer is by far the best that I've ever had.\" Day stated, \"Easy Goer was the best horse I ever rode. He was the most talented and he had a big engine and a lot of heart and desire. He did what he did with continuing ailments.\" Racing writer Steve Haskin described Easy Goer as \"Adonis-like, the closest thing physically to Secretariat. He was plagued by terrible ankles his entire career, but was placed upon a throne at an early age and justified all the adoration. Easy Goer was a horse with God-given talent who appeared to have everything – looks, class, pedigree, speed, and stamina.\" Racing writer Edward L. Bowen said: \"Easy Goer was a glowing chestnut with a fluid stride that belied his short pasterns and less than perfect foot. Pasterns notwithstanding, he had the look of greatness, and he ran to his looks. He was a horse who tempted horsemen and fans to slip into their thoughts the phrase, 'the most perfect horse you can imagine.' Easy Goer was large but not too large. He was elegant but not dainty. He was powerful but not gross. To the aesthete taking in the whole rather than haggling over the parts, the dictionary simply proved inadequate: Easy Goer was not just perfect, he was \"damned perfect.\" Tom LaMarra, of Blood-Horse, wrote: \"Easy Goer is mentioned in the same breath with some of the greatest horses of all time.\" Joe Drape of \"The New York Times\" described Easy Goer as a \"powerful, massive, raw talent with an enormous stride.\" Hall of Fame trainer John Veitch stated, \"Easy Goer had more weapons and was more versatile than his father Alydar.\" Bud Delp, trainer of Spectacular Bid, said, \"I hadn't seen the kind of pistonlike action in a horse since Spectacular Bid. Easy Goer had the same kind of stride, which was effortless.\" His running style was multifaceted and flexible, and he was able to adjust to racing conditions; he could go to the lead or come from behind, he was able to put pressure on speed horses and stay with a faster pace, or drop back if needed. He possessed both speed and stamina. Among his peak performances, Easy Goer ran 124 and 122 Beyer Speed Figures. He also consistently ran in the 120 speed figure range on a regular basis in his races. Furthermore, he ran the fastest Beyer Speed Figure performance by any two-year-old, as well as the fastest Beyer Speed Figure performance in any Triple Crown race since Beyer racing figures were first published.\n\nBefore his career began, Easy Goer was shipped to McGaughey at the Payson Park Training Center in Indiantown, Florida, where he spent the winter getting acquainted with the starting gate and underwent basic training. His trainer noted some faults in his conformation. He had puffy, problematic ankles, a clubfoot, and a turned-out left knee, all providing the potential for injury once the horse began serious workouts. However, McGaughey was captivated with Easy Goer the first time he saw him, but really felt he had something special when he watched him for the first time with a set of horses. \"He gave the impression he could gallop those horses to death,\" McGaughey said.\nAt age two, Easy Goer won his maiden race at seven furlongs at Saratoga Race Course under a hand ride in a final time of 1:22 3/5, defeating Is It True by two and a half lengths after being forwardly placed two lengths off the early leaders and having to steady on the backstretch, and, as McGaughey stated, \"Running two or three seconds faster than the other maiden race run at the same distance that day at Saratoga.\" Easy Goer's time was notably impressive taking into account that it was approximately fifteen lengths faster than that aforementioned maiden race run at the same distance that day at Saratoga. Easy Goer came out of that race with a sore left shin. McGaughey was concerned because he thought he might have to stop the colt's training; however, treatment by hosing and poulticing the leg to draw out the heat was successful. McGaughey decided to wait and have Easy Goer's legs further treated after the Breeders' Cup that November. Easy Goer continued to train at Saratoga. He then won a 6 1/2 furlong allowance race by five and a half lengths at Belmont Park, again under little urging, running one-fifth of a second off the track record in 1:15 2/5, while carrying five pounds more than his opponents. Easy Goer's time was particularly exceptional considering that on the same day at Belmont, older allowance horses ran the same distance just under two seconds slower. His trainer said after the race, \"Then I knew I was training something special.\" Easy Goer next won the seven-furlong Grade I Cowdin Stakes with little encouragement, defeating Is It True again by four lengths. Easy Goer was never more than three and a half lengths behind the early leaders, who ran quick early fractions of 22 2/5 and 45 3/5, before drawing away through the stretch. He also defeated Canadian Champion Two-Year-Old Colt Mercedes Won, who was the Hopeful Stakes and Florida Derby winner. He ran the seven furlongs in 1:23 3/5. The final time was more than two seconds off Devil's Bag's 1983 stakes record, but the Belmont track was producing uncommonly slow times that day. Two weeks later Easy Goer won the $557,000 one-mile Grade I Champagne Stakes with little exertion, again defeating Is It True by four lengths, after vying for command and running a half length to a length and a half behind the leader through fast fractions of 22 4/5 and 45 3/5. He also defeated the Belmont Futurity winner Trapp Mountain and Young America Stakes winner Irish Actor. His 1:34 4/5 final time for the mile was three-fifths of a second off the Champagne stakes record, and tied for fourth-fastest in Champagne Stakes history behind Vitriolic, Seattle Slew (1:34 2/5), and Devil's Bag (1:34 1/5). In the Frizette Stakes run at the same distance that day at Belmont, future Hall of Fame champion Open Mind fell a nose short of catching Some Romance at the wire. Some Romance ran the mile in 1:36 4/5, two seconds, or approximately 12 lengths, slower than Easy Goer. Additionally, in this Champagne Stakes, Easy Goer ran the fastest Beyer Speed Figure performance (116 Beyer) of any two-year-old since Beyer racing figures were first published. Racing analyst Andrew Beyer stated, \"Easy Goer was the most brilliant American two-year-old of the decade.\" Racing writer Steven Crist stated, \"Easy Goer is among the fastest two-year-olds of the last two decades.\"\n\nHe finished second by a little more than a length in his last race of his two-year-old season, the Grade 1 Breeders' Cup Juvenile on a muddy track at Churchill Downs. He lost to Is It True, a horse he had defeated three times earlier in the year by a combined ten and a half lengths, having jumped the tire tracks left by the starting gate late in the homestretch, and seemed to be struggling and uncomfortable with the muddy Churchill track. He earned $697,500 and was named Champion two-year-old colt and was the early favorite for the Kentucky Derby. After the Breeders' Cup, he was shipped to New York to have his shins pinfired, and then sent to Gulfstream Park in Hallandale, Florida, to recuperate.\n\nAt three, Easy Goer started his year in Florida by winning the Swale Stakes in the fastest seven furlongs of the Gulfstream Park meeting in a time of 1:22 1/5 while carrying ten pounds more than the runner up. He \"exploded\" around the far turn to an almost nine length win defeating Kentucky Jockey Club Stakes and Nassau County Stakes winner Tricky Creek. He then won the one mile Grade II Gotham Stakes by thirteen lengths in stakes and track record time while conceding nine pounds and five pounds to the second and third-place finishers respectively, including future world record holder (on turf at one mile) Expensive Decision, winner of the Kelso Handicap and Saranac Handicap. He ran within one to two lengths of the leaders throughout the race, who were running a very rapid pace of 44 1/5 and 1:08 3/5, before running past them and widening away. He won handily and his winning time of 1:32 2/5 for the mile set a new track record, a second faster than Secretariat's stakes record, the fastest mile on a dirt surface by any three-year-old Thoroughbred in history, and a fifth of a second off Dr. Fager's world record. Easy Goer's unofficial gallop-out time of 1:45 4/5 for 1 1/8 miles, was 1 1/5 seconds faster than the track record set in 1973 by Riva Ridge, and only two fifths of a second slower than Secretariat's former nine-furlong world record on dirt set in the 1973 Marlboro Cup. His next race was the mile and an eighth Grade I Wood Memorial, which in 1989 was run two weeks after the Gotham Stakes and two weeks before the Kentucky Derby. Easy Goer ran close to the lead the entire race and won by three lengths over Federico Tesio Stakes winner Rock Point. He was timed in a relatively moderate 1:50 3/5. However, students of time pointed out that Aqueduct was playing about two seconds slower than normal on the day.\n\nEasy Goer was most remembered for his rivalry with Sunday Silence. The two first met in the 1989 Kentucky Derby where Sunday Silence won by 2½ lengths over Easy Goer in the relatively slow time of 2:05 on a muddy track similar to the Breeders' Cup Juvenile the previous year. Easy Goer had a small crack in his left front heel that was found the week leading into the Kentucky Derby. The crack was serious enough to cause discomfort and possibly keep him from running. Easy Goer had a history for his difficulty to handle a muddy track at Churchill Downs and seemed to be struggling with the footing. Easy Goer also had traffic trouble in the race, being cut off by Northern Wolf during the first quarter-mile, causing him to check, and Dansil drifted into his path in the final eighth of a mile in the home stretch, causing Easy Goer to alter course. Multiple Grade I winner Awe Inspiring finished third. Sunday Silence won the Derby despite not keeping a straight path through the stretch while 2½ lengths in front at the finish line.\n\nAfter the Derby, both horses returned to action two weeks later in the 1989 Preakness Stakes. Throughout Preakness week, as late as the day before the race, Easy Goer's front feet were being soaked in a tub of Epsom salts due to small scratches or cracks on both heels. His ankles and knees were also given ultrasound. Easy Goer, after breaking in the air at the start, made a big, early move down the backstretch which catapulted him to a two-length lead over Sunday Silence with a half mile remaining, with the six-furlong split being run in a rapid 1:09 3/5. Sunday Silence then challenged around the far turn, with both horses running the fastest mile split in Preakness history in 1:34 1/5. Following a nose-to-nose duel for the last quarter mile with Easy Goer running in very tight quarters near the rail, Sunday Silence won by a nose in a fast final time of 1:53 4/5. Jockey Pat Day was criticized for reining Easy Goer's head sideways to the right in deep stretch with a short lead right before the finish line. Day criticized himself, calling his ride \"a mistake.\" Bill Christine of the Los Angeles Times, and trainer McGaughey also expressed their opinions on the mistakes they thought Day made during the race. After the race, Day went to McGaughey's barn at Pimlico, after he had been criticized for his ride. Day said, \"It ran through my mind that I might lose the mount on Easy Goer,\" Day said. \"But then I shared some thoughts--I won't tell you what--with Shug and I felt better.\"\n\nAfter the Preakness, both rivals returned to action three weeks later in the 1989 Belmont Stakes. During that era, New York was the only state in America that banned all race-day drugs and medications; New York didn't allow horses to race on any drugs, while the rest of the country did. The trainer of Sunday Silence, Charlie Whittingham, was angered that the controversial veterinarian Alex Harthill, who treated Sunday Silence earlier for the Kentucky Derby and Preakness, was not licensed in New York and prohibited from practicing. Both Easy Goer and Sunday Silence ran in close attendance to the pace-setting leader through swift early fractions, with Easy Goer making his move around the turn propelling himself to the lead; he then opened up a substantial lead through the stretch. Easy Goer defeated Sunday Silence by eight lengths in the time of 2:26 producing the second fastest Belmont Stakes in history, behind Secretariat, and denied Sunday Silence the Triple Crown. Easy Goer became the first two-year-old champion to win a Triple Crown race since Spectacular Bid in 1979. In the process, Easy Goer seemed to vindicate his reputation as the reigning champion two year-old. The jockey of Sunday Silence, Pat Valenzuela, described Easy Goer's performance as that of a superhorse. The race was run over a fast but not unusually quick track. Easy Goer earned a 122 Beyer Speed Figure, the best in any Triple Crown race since these ratings were first published in 1987.\n\nEasy Goer went on that year to win the mile and an eighth Grade I Whitney Handicap at Saratoga, defeating older horses by over four lengths in near record time. The older horses he defeated in this Whitney were: Cryptoclearance, earner of just under $3.4 million and winner of the Donn Handicap, Pegasus Stakes and Widener Handicap; Brooklyn Handicap, Nassau County and Excelsior Handicap winner Forever Silver; Stuyvesant Handicap, Queens County Handicap and Stymie Handicap winner It's Academic; and Fayette Handicap and Ben Ali Handicap winner Homebuilder. He missed the stakes and track record in the Whitney by 2/5 of a second. The record was then held by Tri Jet, the only horse to ever run a faster Whitney than Easy Goer. Easy Goer earned the time even though he steadied while being trapped and boxed in around the far turn, and running his last eighth of a mile in eleven and two-fifth seconds. McGaughey said after the race, \"I don't know if I've ever seen a horse run the last eighth of a mile that fast going long on the dirt. Sometimes, you see it on the grass when a horse has gone a slow paced mile.\" Two weeks later at Saratoga, he won the $1.08 million mile and a quarter Grade I Travers Stakes over Grade I Arlington Classic winner Clever Trevor with moderate effort by three lengths also in near record time. He missed the Travers record by 4/5 of a second. It was the third fastest in Travers history, behind General Assembly and Honest Pleasure. Trainer Jerry Hollendorfer decided to skip the Travers with Haskell Invitational Stakes and Hollywood Futurity winner King Glorious primarily because, during that era, New York banned all race-day drugs and medications, and King Glorious had been treated with Lasix in all nine of his races. New York didn't allow horses to race on any drugs, while the rest of the country did. The trainer of Sunday Silence, Charlie Whittingham, may have chose to skip the Travers because he was angered that the controversial veterinarian Alex Harthill, who treated Sunday Silence earlier in the year, was not licensed in New York and prohibited from practicing. He also may have chose to skip the Travers to rest the horse, as he didn't run Sunday Silence in any race during that month of August. Easy Goer then won the $809,000 mile and a quarter Grade I Woodward Stakes by two lengths on a muddy track, again defeating older horses while carrying more weight and being stuck in traffic, boxed in on the rail and checking hard twice. Easy Goer's victory seemingly squashed the perception that muddy or wet tracks were his Achilles' heel. Day said after the race, \"Mud is different everywhere.\" The older horses he defeated in this Woodward were: Metropolitan Handicap, Arkansas Derby and Philip H. Iselin Stakes winner Proper Reality; and Oaklawn Handicap and Gulfstream Park Handicap winner Slew City Slew. This was the final time the Woodward was run at the mile and a quarter distance before being permanently shortened in distance to a mile and an eighth. Three weeks later, he won the $1.09 million mile and a half Grade I Jockey Club Gold Cup by four lengths, again defeating older horses, included among them were the aforementioned Cryptoclearance, who finished second. He also defeated Breeders' Cup Turf and Molson Export Million winner Prized by over 20 lengths in this race, a horse who had defeated Sunday Silence earlier in the year in the Grade II Swaps Stakes. The track was playing dull and slow, but despite the dullness of the racing surface, moderate pace, and relatively slow final time, he ran his sixth and final quarter-mile his fastest, coming home in 24.12 seconds. This was the final time the Jockey Club Gold Cup was run at the mile and a half distance prior to being permanently shortened in distance to a mile and a quarter.\n\nThe rivalry with Sunday Silence concluded in the Breeders' Cup Classic, run on November 4 at 1¼ miles. With champion honors at stake, the race was labeled \"Race of the Decade\" by the horse racing media. Easy Goer was favored by the wagering public based on his Belmont Stakes win and four subsequent Grade I wins, three against older horses. Sunday Silence's regular rider, Patrick Valenzuela, had recently been suspended for cocaine use. Trainer Charles E. Whittingham assigned the mount to Chris McCarron. Easy Goer came into the 10-furlong Classic off the 12-furlong Gold Cup—a potentially tricky parlay for a trainer, because the longer race can have the dangerous effect of dulling the colt's natural speed and blunting the quickness that he might need in a shorter race. In contrast, trainer Charlie Whittingham had run Sunday Silence only twice in the five months since the Belmont, both times over a 1¼-mile distance—in the Grade II Swaps Stakes at Hollywood Park, where he finished second, and two months later in the Sept. 24 Super Derby at Louisiana Downs, which he won. Easy Goer ran 11 lengths off the lead, about seven lengths behind Sunday Silence, behind the brisk opening fractions of 22:2/5 and 46:1/5, but made a big run down the backstretch and got near his rival at the half-mile point. Sunday Silence then made a charge turning for home and gained the lead in the final furlong, four lengths ahead of Easy Goer. Easy Goer closed ground late with another big move but lost by a diminishing neck to Sunday Silence, who was under strong urging by McCarron, with a final time of 2:00 1/5. Blushing John, the American Champion Older Dirt Male Horse that year, finished behind the top two in third. The victory assured Sunday Silence Eclipse Award for Outstanding Three-Year-Old Male Horse and Horse of the Year honors for 1989. After the race, McGaughey said, \"Sunday Silence had a perfect trip and we made a couple of mistakes. Pat and I agree that he made riding mistakes in the Preakness. But in the other races, there were circumstances that contributed to what happened. Maybe when Pat grabbed him after the start, the horse didn't understand what he was doing. Then Pat was content to sit and wait behind Sunday Silence, as he had done before, and the other horse got away from us. In my heart, I think Easy Goer is the better horse; I think anybody would say that if those two ran against each other ten times, each would probably win five.\" Day said his ride wasn't the best, while also stating, \"I've said it before, I think Easy Goer was better than Sunday Silence, despite his three to one edge in the head to head races. I'll go to my grave believing that. We lost two photos to him and the one in the Preakness was due to a rider error on my part.\" Current Daily Racing Form publisher Steven Crist stated in his \"New York Times\" article in January 1990 that had the question on the ballot been, \"Who is the better horse, Sunday Silence or Easy Goer?\", his view was that a lot more than 19 people would have voted against Sunday Silence. Crist also went on to state, \"Easy Goer was a great horse and so was Sunday Silence. I still think Easy Goer had more pure, raw talent. Sunday Silence held the three to one edge over Easy Goer in the races they met, but he never beat him in a way that proved he was just plain better. In Easy Goer's best race, he walloped Sunday Silence by eight lengths in the Belmont. In a few of his close defeats, Easy Goer had legitimate excuses: he lost the Derby on a muddy track he had difficulty handling, and lost the Preakness by only a nose after a dubious ride. In the Classic, where Sunday Silence held him off by a neck, Easy Goer just missed, but left no one thinking it could not have gone the other way.\" Daily Racing Form's Mike Watchmaker concurred, stating, \"To this day, you won't have any trouble finding people who believe that Easy Goer was a better racehorse than Sunday Silence. I know this, because I am one of them.\" \"Paul Moran of the \"Los Angeles Times\" and \"Newsday\" agreed, stating, \"Sunday Silence is Horse of the Year, but most still believe Easy Goer is the better horse. Sunday Silence is Horse of the Year despite never having won at a mile and a half (the classic distance for most of the world) and never having given weight while defeating older horses, as Easy Goer did in three races. He is Horse of the Year despite going one for three during a span of five months while Easy Goer won the Belmont, Whitney, Travers, Woodward and Jockey Club Gold Cup.\"\n\nEasy Goer is the only horse in history to win the Whitney, Travers, Woodward, and Jockey Club Gold Cup. In three of these races, he defeated older horses, becoming one of the few three-year-olds in modern American racing history to do so. Only three Hall of Fame champions (Easy Goer, Kelso, and Slew o' Gold) have ever won the Whitney, Woodward, and Jockey Club Gold Cup in the same year, but Easy Goer was the only three-year-old to complete the triple. He is one of only two horses to ever win the Champagne, Belmont Stakes, and Travers. He is also one of only two horses to notch a Travers, Whitney and Belmont Stakes triple, and the only one to do so in the same year. Additionally, he is one of only five horses to tally a Whitney-Travers double in the same year, with the other four being Key to the Mint, Eight Thirty, Alydar and Java Gold. Since 1919, Easy Goer is one of only ten horses to sweep the Belmont, Travers and Jockey Club Gold Cup. Since 1973, Easy Goer is one of only seven horses that have won three consecutive Grade I races longer than 1 1/8 miles on dirt (or synthetic), with the other six being Alysheba and Gentlemen as well as Triple Crown winners American Pharoah, Secretariat, Seattle Slew, and Affirmed. He was one of the last American-trained horses to win two Grade I races at a mile and a half on dirt (Belmont Stakes and Jockey Club Gold Cup). Easy Goer's 1989 three-year-old campaign is considered by some to be the greatest in American racing history without yielding any year-end championship awards. With the exception of Horse-of-the-Year the Eclipse Awards are based on age, and from 1971 until the present time the American Champion Older Male Horse award was restricted to male horses aged four years old and up. Prior to 1971 the American Champion Older Male Horse award was referred to as \"Champion Handicap Male Horse.\" The \"Daily Racing Form\" version was open to any horse ages three years old and up, and this award was given to some champions at the age of three, such as Citation, Buckpasser, Sword Dancer, Damascus and Arts and Letters. The three-year-old Easy Goer conceded weight on scale while defeating top older horses in both the Whitney (G1) and Woodward (G1) Handicaps; defeated leading older horses a third time in the weight-for-age Jockey Club Gold Cup (G1); and beat older horses again in the weight-for-age Breeders' Cup Classic (G1), including the future Champion Older Male Blushing John. Had the awards been categorized as they were prior to 1971, Easy Goer most likely would have been named Champion Handicap Male Horse of 1989.\n\nAt four, Easy Goer won the seven-furlong Gold Stage Stakes easily on a sloppy track by over seven lengths, defeating Phoenix Stakes winner Hadif in a final time of 1:22 1/5. Twelve days later, he was third in the Grade I Metropolitan Mile, marking the only time he did not finish either first or second in his career. Easy Goer always had problematic ankles, and his handlers had to work overtime on them during the month. Rumors about his soundness had swirled around the track for the two weeks leading into the race. Easy Goer was beaten by a little more than a length behind eventual Horse of the Year Criminal Type and two-time sprint champion Housebuster while carrying considerably more weight than those competitors (fourteen and seven pounds, respectively). Future Horse of the Year and Breeders' Cup Classic winner Black Tie Affair and two-time Vosburgh Handicap winner Sewickley finished behind the top three. He then won the mile and a quarter Grade I Suburban Handicap by almost four lengths ridden out in a time of 2:00 after going head and head on the lead while sprinting through fast fractions of 46.75 for a half-mile and 1:09.87 for six furlongs. He defeated Jerome Handicap winner De Roche, as well as Brooklyn Handicap and Stuyvesant Handicap winner Montubio. The final time was 3/5 of a second off Alysheba's then track record, which had been set in a weight for age race. Easy Goer conceded to his opponents. In Easy Goer's 20-race career, he was never defeated by more than 2½ lengths.\n\nAfter his Suburban Handicap win, Easy Goer was retired due to a bone chip in his right front ankle. He won 14 races, including 9 Grade I wins, and earned $4,873,770.\n\nAfter his retirement from racing, Easy Goer stood stud at Claiborne Farm in Paris, Kentucky. He was given the honor of occupying the number one stall in the number one barn. His stall was previously occupied by Bold Ruler and Secretariat. At age eight, in 1994, Easy Goer collapsed and died while jogging in his paddock at Claiborne Farm. Dr. Thomas Swerczek, the veterinary pathologist at the University of Kentucky, who conducted Easy Goer's necropsy, determined the horse died of an anaphylactic reaction to an undetermined allergen and also had cancerous tumors in multiple organs. The veterinarians were convinced the cancer did not kill Easy Goer and probably would not have been fatal for a long time. They also said fatal allergic reactions are more common than most professionals realize. Easy Goer was buried at Claiborne Farm along with Secretariat, Buckpasser, Bold Ruler and many other greats.\n\nAt stud, in just a few crops before his premature death, Easy Goer sired three Grade I winners and nine stakes winners (7%), from 136 foals, of which 101 were starters, and 74 were winners. While speed at distances up to a mile had been favored over \"stoutness\" in much American breeding, Easy Goer demonstrated speed over a mile as well as stamina. Given the combination of his pedigree and the high-quality mares to which he was bred at Claiborne, it was speculated by \"The Blood-Horse\" that he would have been even more significant as a stallion had he lived longer. Easy Goer has also been an influential broodmare sire. From 53 mares sired by Easy Goer, they have produced 23 stakes winners.\n\nEasy Goer was the sire of:\n\nEasy Goer is the broodmare sire (maternal grandsire) of: \n\nIn 1997, Easy Goer was inducted into the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame. In the Blood-Horse magazine ranking of the top 100 U.S. Thoroughbred champions of the 20th Century, Easy Goer was ranked # 34. Easy Goer won the Eclipse Award as American champion 2-year-old male in 1988. Easy Goer graces the cover of the 2005 book, \"Belmont Park: A Century of Champions,\" with paintings by Richard Stone Reeves and text by Edward L. Bowen. Belmont Park, the renowned racetrack, has played host to some of Thoroughbred racing's greatest champions, from Man o' War and Citation to Secretariat and Cigar. Belmont Park is known as \"The Championship Track\" because nearly every major American champion in racing history has competed on the racetrack. The book chronicles seventy racehorses who competed from 1905 to 2005 thrilling fans, setting records, and becoming legends at the venerable New York track. Easy Goer's rivalry with Sunday Silence was featured as the 17th chapter of Horse Racing's Greatest Rivalries (2008, Eclipse Press), a compilation produced by the staff of The Blood-Horse. Easy Goer's duel with Sunday Silence in the 1989 Preakness was ranked #70 in Horse Racing's Top 100 Moments, a review of racing in the 20th century compiled by The Blood-Horse and released in 2006. Easy Goer was retrospectively awarded a Timeform rating of 137 pounds which was tied with his arch-rival Sunday Silence for second place among American runners of the 20th century. Only Cigar at 138 pounds was rated higher. Easy Goer was one of thirty champion Thoroughbreds inducted into the Saratoga Hoofprints Walk of Fame as part of the inaugural class in 2013. The Saratoga Hoofprints Walk of Fame is designed to pay homage to the most accomplished thoroughbreds to compete at Saratoga Race Course during its 150-year history. It honors the most prolific and notable horses to have raced at one of the nation's most historic tracks. The Easy Goer Stakes run every Belmont Stakes day at Belmont Park is named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12294901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12294901", "title": "Engineering process outsourcing", "text": "Engineering process outsourcing\n\nEngineering process outsourcing (EPO) for the architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) industry is a resource for the industries of the built environment. The EPO industry supports architecture, engineering and construction industries worldwide.\n\nArchitect, Structural Engineer, Mechanical Engineer, Electrical Engineer, Landscape architects, Interior designer, Environmental Engineer, civil engineering, general contractor, subcontractor, quantity surveyor, Design-build teams, project management, construction management, contract management, Facility management, Building Owners and Managers Association, manufacturers, cities\n\nCAD, Building Information Modeling, Project Management, Construction management, Structural design, Shop drawing, submittals, document management system, Presentations, Detail engineering, conceptual scheme, Discrepancy report, quantity estimate, reverse engineering, reliability engineering, area charts, code compliance analysis, as built drawings, material specification, construction documentation, accessibility compliance, records management, energy audits, energy modelling, Landscape design, Site services, Land development construction drawings, topography,\n\nBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) by NBIMS is expected to provide a solution to the problems facing the AEC industry. All the activities would be deposited in BIM DNA and every stakeholder will access in realtime the database for quick answers.\n\n"}
{"id": "7002979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7002979", "title": "Enrique Sarasola", "text": "Enrique Sarasola\n\nEnrique Sarasola Lerchundi (24 August 1937 – 2 November 2002) was a Spanish industrialist, a major figure in his country's transition to democracy, and an owner and breeder of Thoroughbred racehorses.\nA native of San Sebastian, Spain, at age twenty, Sarasola emigrated to Colombia as an auditor with Price Waterhouse. He married Cecilia Marulanda, from a wealthy family, and eventually went into business for himself. Highly successful, in 1970 he returned to his native Spain where he became active in politics. Working behind the scenes where political opposition was suppressed by the government of General Franco, Sarasola used his wealth to help the then illegal Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) headed by Felipe Gonzalez. After Gonzalez was elected Prime Minister of the Spanish government in 1982, Enrique Sarasola became a powerful figure during Gonzalez' fourteen years in office. However, he would come under much criticism and be involved in court battles over charges of patronage and political corruption.\n\nEnrique Sarasola owned a number of successful racehorses, the best known of which was Helissio, winner of the 1996 Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe and European Horse of the Year. From 1992 until its closure in 1996, Sarasola was the owner of Hipodromo de la Zarzuela race track, just west of Madrid.\n\nAfter a long illness, Enrique Sarasola died at age 65 in 2002 in a Madrid hospital and was interred in the La Paz-Alcobendas cemetery in Madrid. His son, , is a world class equestrian competitor who has represented Spain in the 1998 Eventing World Championship and the 2000 Summer Olympics. His relative Javier Moll is a notable media mogul.\n\n"}
{"id": "54119711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54119711", "title": "Entrepreneurial company (Germany)", "text": "Entrepreneurial company (Germany)\n\nAn entrepreneurial company with limited liability (in German: Unternehmergesellschaft (haftungsbeschränkt)) is a German form of a private limited company, usually established as an alternative to a German corporation or GmbH (limited liability) entity. Companies organized as an entrepreneurial company have the suffix ‘\"UG (haftungsbeschränkt)\"’ appended to their names.\n\nThe German government introduced the UG primarily to act as an alternative to establishing a traditional corporation. A UG established under German law is not a new type of legal entity; rather, it is a limited liability company similar to a GmbH, with the exception that, unlike the GmbH, it is not required to meet the legally mandated €25,000 share capital required of a GmbH—a UG can be established with as little as one euro of paid-in capital. However, a UG is still a separate legal entity from its owners and is fully liable for paying corporation taxes and publishing annual financial statements. UG entities can be recognized as not-for-profit, under the right conditions.\n\nThe UG form has been met with great interest, especially by start-up companies and other entrepreneurs. As of January 1, 2012, there had been 64,371 of such companies formed. Since then, traditional corporations have been reduced in importance, having largely been supplanted by the UG (and also the GmbH) among new companies being formed.\n\nForming a UG is relatively similar to forming a closely related GmbH entity, however the UG is exempt from some of the capital rules applicable to a GmbH.\n\nThe company must bear the title “Unternehmergesellschaft (haftungsbeschränkt)” or, as an abbreviated form, “UG (haftungsbeschränkt)” (§ 5a GmbHG). \"Unternehmergesellschaft\" means entrepreneurial company and the German word \"haftungsbeschränkt\" means “limited liability”. It signifies the fact that the owners of the company have limited liability for the company’s debts.\n\nThe nominal amount of the business’ shares - the so-called \"ordinary capital\" - as defined in the company agreement, must be provided after the foundation of the company and before its registration into the commercial register ( § 5a para 2 GmbHG). The total capital stock must be at least one euro. In practice, amounts of up to €1,000 are usually chosen.\n\nIf the total amount of share capital exceeds EUR 25,000, then a GmbH is usually formed instead of a UG. (§ 5a para. 1 p. 1 GmbHG). In contrast to the GmbH form, no contribution in kind is permitted for a UG. The share capital must be paid immediately in full as a cash contribution (§ 5a (2) GmbHG). If capital of EUR 12,500 is available, either a UG (limited liability) with a share capital of EUR 12,500 can be established, or a limited liability company in the original sense, in which only half of the share capital of at least EUR 25,000 has to be paid.\n"}
{"id": "41348683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41348683", "title": "Evzen Korec", "text": "Evzen Korec\n\nEvzen Korec (born September 16, 1956) is a Czech scientist and businessman, owner of the property developer EKOSPOL and owner and director of Tabor Zoo. He is the co-author of 11 patents and more than 20 research articles published in international scientific journals. Korec has also written four books, one of which (\"Co je v domě, není pro mě!\") became a bestseller shortly after publication.\n\nKorec graduated from the Faculty of Science, Charles University in 1981, in Molecular Biology and Genetics. His Master's thesis was an Analysis of Susceptibility and Resistance to Rous Sarcoma Virus in Inbred Line of Minor Poultry. Between 1983 and 1986 he worked as a researcher at the Institute of Molecular Genetics of the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, where he received a PhD in Oncology, with a doctoral thesis on the Expression and Detection of Virus Proteins of Tumor Viruses.\n\nAfter 1986, Korec completed long-term research fellowships at universities across Europe, including the University of Göttingen in Germany, and universities in London and Paris. He was the co-author of 11 patents in the field of Molecular Biology and Genetics. In this field he published more than 20 research articles in international scientific journals.\n\nIn 1992 he founded the development company EKOSPOL, and has served as its CEO and chairman since then. EKOSPOL is one of the two largest residential developers in the Czech Republic, according to market share of apartment sales, and has also been listed among the 50 leading residential developers in Central and Eastern Europe by a trade magazine.\n\nKorec lectures regularly at the University of Economics in Prague, and frequently comments on residential development, construction, housing market and the mortgage market in Czech media. Between 2010 and 2016 he was the most frequently quoted public figure in the Czech development industry, and EKOSPOL was the most frequently mentioned development company in the media.\n\nIn 2013, Korec received the Top Manager of the Sector of Real Estate Development and Construction Award in the Manager of the Year 2012 Awards.\n\nAs the owner of Ekospol development company, Korec formulated Korec's rule, which says: \n\"The final sales price of an apartment with the area of up to 50 m2 must correspond to a maximum of 20 times the annual rent in a given location. For larger apartments (large one bedroom apartment, two bedroom apartment etc.) the sales price should be on the level of a maximum of 25 to 30 times the annual rent.\"\n\nKorec's rule helps a person interested in buying an apartment to relatively precisely determine the maximum sales price of an apartment in a given location. This rule applies generally, independent of the location. The rent price already reflects the attractiveness of the location, and the current rent price of a given location can be easily found on real estate websites.\n\nKorec is also active in the field of animal protection and preservation. In 2015, Korec rescued Tabor Zoo from liquidation, buying the zoo from an insolvency administrator. The zoo was re-opened to the public later that year, focused on the preservation of endangered species. Korec is himself a breeder of various animals, including koi carp and horses. He is the owner of Korec Corso kennel, home to the most successful bitch of the Cane Corso dog breed in the Czech Republic in 2015, Koleta Atison.\n\nThrough his company EKOSPOL, Korec supports the civic association Společnost pro zvířata (\"Society for Animals\") and charitable trust Česká Krajina, as well as sponsoring Tabor Zoo. \n\nKorec also supports the animal rights campaign \"Konec doby klecové\" (\"End of the Cage Era\") organized by Společnost pro zvířata, with the goal of ending the cage farming of poultry and all other animal species in the Czech Republic, and Česká krajina's biodiversity protection projects focused on the reintroduction of native Czech animal species, such as wild horses, European bisons or aurochs.\n\nKorec leads a scientific group in Tabor Zoo, which determined for the first time the average lifespan of Cane Corso dogs through a study of a statistically significant group in cooperation with 72 Cane Corso kennels from 25 countries. The research aims to extend the life of Cane Corso dogs. In this publication, the relationship between average lifespan and hair colour was described in mammals for the first time. The research results were published in the \"Open Veterinary Journal\". Korec is a member of the Editorial Board of the US veterinary journal \"Approaches in Poultry, Dairy & Veterinary Sciences\".\n\nKorec is married to Jana, and they have one son.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12129089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12129089", "title": "Federal Reserve Bank of New York Building", "text": "Federal Reserve Bank of New York Building\n\nThe Federal Reserve Bank of New York Building at 33 Liberty Street, which occupies the full block between Liberty, William and Nassau Streets and Maiden Lane in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City, is the headquarters of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. It is where the monetary policy of the United States is executed by trading dollars and United States Treasury securities.\n\nThe building also hosts a vault containing the world's largest depository of gold, stored on behalf of numerous government institutions from around the world. Total holdings in 2015 amounted to approximately 6,350 tons of gold. Relatively little of this gold belongs to the United States Government; as of August 2016, the building's vault holds of gold bullion and $3 million (book value) in gold coins for the United States, a little more than 5% of the United States' total gold reserve.\n\nThe building was designated a landmark by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission in 1965, and was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nThe visual impact of the neo-Renaissance structure derives from its monumental size, fortress-like appearance, fine proportions and the overall quality of construction. It set the precedent for many later banks which were greatly influenced by its design.\n\nBuilt from 1919 through 1924, with an extension to the east built in 1935, all designed by York and Sawyer with decorative ironwork by Samuel Yellin of Philadelphia, this massive building occupies an entire city block, reaching fourteen stories tall with five additional floors underground. The building tapers to become very narrow at its east end, following the footprint of the block it stands on.\n\nThe stone exterior of the building is reminiscent of an early Italian Renaissance palace, such as Florence's Palazzo Strozzi and Palazzo Vecchio, a deliberate choice so as to inspire trust and confidence in the institution within. The horizontal and vertical joints of the facade's stones are deeply grooved or rusticated. Other features include lanterns and window grills constructed of wrought iron.\n\nThe vault rests on Manhattan's bedrock, below street level and below sea level. The weight of the vault and the gold inside would exceed the weight limits of almost any other foundation. By 1927, the vault contained 10% of the world's official gold reserves. Currently, it is reputedly the largest gold repository in the world and holds approximately of gold bullion ($415 billion as of October 2011), more than Fort Knox. Nearly 98% of the gold at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is owned by the central banks of 36 foreign nations. The rest is owned by the United States and international organizations such as the IMF. The Federal Reserve Bank does not own the gold but serves as guardian of the precious metal, which it stores at no charge to the owners, but charging a $1.75 fee (in 2008) per bar to move the gold. There are elaborate procedures for the handling of the gold, with three different teams monitoring every transaction. Moving the bars requires steel-toe footware for the staff, to protect their feet in case they drop one of the gold bars weighing . The vault is open to tourists.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "31060853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31060853", "title": "Gad Zeevi", "text": "Gad Zeevi\n\nGad Zeevi (Hebrew: גד זאבי, also Gad Zevi; born November 13, 1939) is an Israeli industrialist. Zeevi is the owner and chairman of the Zeevi Group, a multimillion-dollar private equity corporation. The Zeevi Group, through its subsidiaries, produces, refines, and sells petroleum products. It manages petroleum refineries and a chain of gas stations in the United States. The company also engages in the construction and exploitation of electric power stations, producing electric power for the national network; development, building, and construction of city housing estates, trade centers, places of residence, grain elevators, airports, water projects, and roads in Africa, America, and Israel; and distribution of automobiles. In addition, the Zeevi Group provides information technologies, logistical, retailing, and other business services, as well as medical equipment and sanatoria.\n\nThe Zeevi Group purchased \"Japanauto\", the exclusive Israeli distributor for Subaru cars, in 1998. The Gad Zeevi Group invests in private hospitals, radio and television stations, shopping malls, written media, apartment and industrial real estate development, health care, car industry, and more. The Zeevi Group has led energy projects in Africa, America, Europe and Israel, including the construction and exploitation of electric power stations for national networks, trade in crude oil and oil products.\n\nThe Zeevi Group has led energy projects in Africa, America, Europe and Israel, including the construction and exploitation of electric power stations for national networks, trade in crude oil and oil products.\n\nThe Zeevi Group has been involved in various ventures across a quarter of a century, including the development, construction and management of large-scale urban projects, commercial and residential complexes, silos, airports, water projects, and thousands of kilometers of roads in Africa and Israel.\n\nThe Group owns significant real estate interests, comprising thousands of residential and commercial areas, hospitals and retirement villages:\n\n\nThe Zeevi Group also owns the largest shopping center in Israel, covering a total area of 250,000 m².\n\nThe Zeevi Group owns Israel’s largest private hospitals, equipped with the most updated medical equipment, including VCT, MRI, IVF, laser operations and a state-of-the-art pressure chamber. The Group also owns luxury retirement villages, situated in proximity to the hospitals.\n\nThe Zeevi Group has interests in regional and international television and radio companies including Keshet, one of Israel's leading broadcasting agencies.\n\n Play4Skill's business model is based on fee games that include on-site advertising, as well as games for pay. The company is developing an additional B2B business model to license its products to portals and online games sites. Gad Zeevi controls the company, after investing $2.1 million in it in 2009.\n\nThroughout the 1970-80's, operating in Israel, U.S.A, Africa and Eastern Europe, all The Zeevi Group’s logistics companies have been leaders in their field, ranging from freight forwarding and customs clearance, to inland port terminals, container handling, storage and third party logistics.\n\nThe Gad Zeevi Group purchased Japanauto, the Israeli distributor of Subaru cars, in 1998. has been marketing Subaru since 1968 and was a pioneer in bringing Japanese cars to the Israeli market, holding 50% of the local car market in the 1970s and 1980s with annual sales of over 30,000 vehicles. Under The Zeevi Group’s guidance, the company established the biggest after-sales service infrastructure in Israel, providing the reach, the people, the know-how, and the service centers needed to satisfy this highly demanding market. Being the sole importer in the country to market a single brand, while the competition represent various brands with conflicting interests, Japanauto is currently looking for strategically synergetic franchising opportunities to expand by providing new brands, models, car sizes and engine volumes to fit the Israeli market. Various speculation in Israel has arisen towards Mr. Zeevi's plans to expand his car importation enterprise. One of Israel's leading financial newspaper, Globes, recently reported that the Ze'vi Group will be exclusively importing into Israel. \n\nThe Israeli car market sells 180,000 cars annually with potential growth of over 6% a year. Gad Zeevi has imported and sold hundreds of thousands of Subaru cars to Israel.\n\nAccording to Globes Magazine, Gad Zeevi sold his shares of Japanauto Holdings Ltd. for an estimated 160 million NIS (~50 million USD) in May 2012. Japan Auto Holdings is the publicly traded parent company of the Subaru importer.\n\nZeevi Group was involved in the privatization of Balkan Bulgarian Airlines in Bulgaria.Gets national air carrier Balkan with preferences for future development and sell it for a quick profit .\n\nIn March 2011, The Tel Aviv Magistrate’s Court acquitted Gad Ze’evi and three other executives from Malam of charges of fraud.\n\nThe trial against Ze’evi lasted five years and included dozens of court hearings. Ze’evi who was chairman of IT giant Malam Systems was indicted in 2006 of committing stock fraud in order to increase his monthly salary. In her closing remarks, as published in both the Jerusalem Post & Globes daily newspapers, Judge Daniela Cherizli criticized the local Israeli district attorneys office for drawing out the trial unnecessarily.\n\n\"I am not going into personal issues. I kept the verdict professional and objective, even though I strongly wanted to say what I thought during the hearing. Things could have been much shorter,\" Judge Cherizli told the prosecutors. \"I did not halt the hearing only out of the respect that I have for the prosecution. It was really irrelevant.\"\n\nJudge Cherizli added that the legal material was clear, and so was the required verdict. \"At the end of the day, everything focused on the issue of the shares. I made no normative statement whether the shares were tainted or not, but I think that act by the accused was neither false nor unreasonable. I thoroughly examined all the material. In general, I think that Mr. Tiber did not err according to the specific material in this case.\" Judge Cherizli also criticized the Israel Securities Authority for not providing an opinion on the case. \"I would have expected the Securities Authority to express an opinion, but it did not do so, so what I am expected to do? The grounds for a charge of fraudulent receiving have been undercut. More than necessary, I discussed the question whether there were misleading details in the various documents. There was no conspiracy, and I therefore acquit the accused of all charges in the indictment.\"\n\nGad Zeevi regularly donates to local and international art museums, schools, health and education and in Jan 2011 he personally donated 200,000 NIS in vehicles and parts to Elem, a Haifa-based charity organization which focuses on assisting needy children with food, clothing, education and social activities.\n"}
{"id": "12547730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12547730", "title": "Hans Leutenegger", "text": "Hans Leutenegger\n\nHans Leutenegger (born January 16, 1940 in Bichelsee-Balterswil) is a Swiss bobsledder who competed in the early 1970s. He won the gold medal in the four-man event at the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo.\n\nLeutenegger also founded his own construction firm in Switzerland in 1965, Hans Leutenegger AG, a business that continues . The company has expanded into employment search and a temporary staffing for engineering positions. He also did some acting, working with Klaus Kinski in the 1985 film \"Kommando Leopard\" (Commando Leopard).\n\n"}
{"id": "38499314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38499314", "title": "Industrial democracy", "text": "Industrial democracy\n\nIndustrial democracy is an arrangement which involves workers making decisions, sharing responsibility and authority in the workplace. While in participative management organizational designs workers are listened to and take part in the decision-making process, in organizations employing industrial democracy they also have the final decisive power (they decide about organizational design and hierarchy as well).\n\nIn company law, the term generally used is co-determination, following the German word \"Mitbestimmung\". In Germany, companies with more than 2000 employees (or more than 1000 employees in the coal and steel industries) have half of their supervisory boards of directors (which elect management) elected by the shareholders and half by the workers.\n\nAlthough industrial democracy generally refers to the organization model in which workplaces are run directly by the people who work in them in place of private or state ownership of the means of production, there are also representative forms of industrial democracy. Representative industrial democracy includes decision-making structures such as the formation of committees and consultative bodies to facilitate communication between management, unions, and staff.\n\nAdvocates often point out that industrial democracy increases productivity and service delivery from a more fully engaged and happier workforce. Other benefits include less industrial dispute resulting from better communication in the workplace; improved and inclusive decision-making processes resulting in qualitatively better workplace decisions, decreased stress and increased well-being, an increase in job satisfaction, a reduction in absenteeism and an improved sense of fulfillment. Other authors regard industrial democracy as a consequence of citizenship rights.\n\nAt the point of production, the introduction of mandatory works councils and voluntary schemes of workers' participation (e.g. semi-autonomous groups) have a long tradition in European countries.\n\nIn a number of European countries, employees of a business take part in election of company directors. In Germany, the law is known as the \"Mitbestimmungsgesetz of 1976\". In Britain a 1977 proposal for a similar system was named the Bullock Report.\n\nThe anarchist thinker Pierre-Joseph Proudhon used the term \"industrial democracy\" in the 1850s to describe the vision of workplace democracy he had first raised in the 1840s with \"What is Property? Or, an Inquiry into the Principle of Right and of Government\", (management \"must be chosen from the workers by the workers themselves, and must fulfil the conditions of eligibility.\") He repeated this call in later works like \"General Idea of the Revolution.\"\n\nIn late nineteenth century, and at the beginning of the twentieth century, industrial democracy, along with anarcho-syndicalism and new unionism, represented one of the dominant themes in revolutionary socialism and played a prominent role in international labour movements. The term industrial democracy was also used by British socialist reformers Sidney and Beatrice Webb in their 1897 book \"Industrial Democracy\". The Webbs used the term to refer to trade unions and the process of collective bargaining.\n\nWhile the influence of the movements promoting industrial democracy declined after the defeat of the anarchists in the Spanish Revolution in 1939, several unions and organizations advocating the arrangement continue to exist and are again on the rise internationally.\n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World advance an industrial unionism which would organize all the workers, regardless of skill, gender or race, into one big union divided into a series of departments corresponding to different industries. The industrial unions would be the embryonic form of future post-capitalist production. Once sufficiently organized, the industrial unions would overthrow capitalism by means of a general strike, and carry on production through worker run enterprises without bosses or the wage system. Anarcho-syndicalist unions, like the \"Confederación Nacional del Trabajo\", are similar in their means and ends but organize workers into geographically based and federated syndicates rather than industrial unions.\n\nThe New Unionism Network also promotes workplace democracy as a means to linking production and economic democracy.\n\nModern industrial economies have adopted several aspects of industrial democracy to improve productivity and as reformist measures against industrial disputes. Often referred to as \"teamworking\", this form of industrial democracy has been practiced in Scandinavia, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK as well as in several Japanese companies such as Toyota, as an effective alternative to Taylorism.\n\nThe term is often used synonymously with workplace democracy, in which the traditional master-servant model of employment gives way to a participative, power-sharing model.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40263771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40263771", "title": "Isha Johansen", "text": "Isha Johansen\n\nIsha Tejan-Cole Johansen (born c. 1965) is a Sierra Leonean entrepreneur and the current president of the Sierra Leone Football Association. Johansen is one of only a few women in the world to have headed a national football association, along with Lydia Nsekera, the former president of the Burundi football association, Izetta Sombo Wesley, the former leader of the Liberia Football Association and Sonia Bien-Aime of the Turks and Caicos Islands Football Association.\n\nIsha Johansen is the owner and CEO of Sierra Leone National Premier League club F.C. Johansen.\n\nIsha Johansen was born as Isha Tejan-Cole in Freetown, Sierra Leone, into the Tejan-Cole family, who are of Aku or Creole descent. She was immersed in football from the very beginning, as her father co-founded East End Lions F.C. in Freetown. Her father took her to see football matches, and she played football with her brothers and their friends.\n\nShe was educated at a convent school in Freeport and a boarding school in Yeovil, England.\n\nShe was raised in a religious Muslim family. She is married to the Norwegian Consul in Sierra Leone, Arne Birger Johansen.\n\nIsha Johansen founded her own football club, F.C. Johansen, in 2004. The club was started with the objective of giving guidance and opportunities to children whose lives had been disrupted by the recent Sierra Leone Civil War (1991-2002). It began playing in Division One in 2011 and was promoted to the Premier League the following year.\n\nJohansen was elected president of the Sierra Leone Football Association (SLFA) unopposed on 3 August 2013, after her main opponent, former Sierra Leone international footballer Mohamed Kallon was disqualified by the Sierra Leone Football Executive committee for not meeting the SLFA residency requirement in the country. Kallon appealed his disqualification, but the FIFA delegation to Freetown confirmed the disqualifications of Kallon and two other candidates\n(for links to gambling), so Johansen was unopposed. When Sepp Blatter was pressured to step down as head of FIFA, Johansen was touted as a possible successor in the press.\n\nShe launched Powerplay, an initiative to encourage women and girls to play the game and to help empower them. It has the support of FIFA and the Confederation of African Football.\n\nShe also started the annual African International Youth Tournament in 2009.\n\nOn 7 September 2016, SLFA President Isha Johansen, Vice President Brima Kamara and Secretary General Christopher Kamara were jailed by the Anti-corruption Commission for failing to provide reports regarding the SLFA's financial statements and the use of money. The trio were released after posting bail. FIFA defended the SLFA in a letter, stating, \"FIFA has no reason to suspect there has been misuse of funds that FIFA has provided to the SLFA\", having audited the SLFA's accounts earlier in the year.\n\nIn 1993, she became the first woman publisher in the country's history, producing \"Rapture Magazine\", an entertainment publication. She was also contributing editor to \"Ovation\" magazine. She founded the Pink Charity Fund to combat breast cancer in 2006 and the Women of Excellence Awards.\n"}
{"id": "6781673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6781673", "title": "Isofix", "text": "Isofix\n\nISOFIX is the international standard for attachment points for child safety seats in passenger cars. The system has other regional names including LATCH (\"Lower Anchors and Tethers for Children\") in the United States and LUAS (\"Lower Universal Anchorage System\") or Canfix in Canada. It has also been called the \"Universal Child Safety Seat System\" or UCSSS.\n\nISOFIX is International Organisation for Standardisation standard ISO 13216, which specifies the anchoring system for Group 1 child safety seats. It defines standard attachment points to be manufactured into cars, enabling compliant child safety seats to be quickly and safely secured. ISOFIX is an alternative to securing the seat with seat belts. Seats are secured with a single attachment at the top (top tether) and two attachments at the base of each side of the seat. The full set of anchor points for this system were required in new cars in the United States starting in September 2002.\n\nIn the EU the system is known as ISOFIX and covers both Group 0/0+ and Group 1 child safety seats. The mechanism for attaching the seat to the Lower Anchors is quite different from that in the United States. In the EU two \"alligator-like\" clips connect the seat to the Lower Anchors rather than the open clip style connectors commonly used in the United States. However, some child seat manufacturers are beginning to offer true ISOFIX type attachments in the U.S. In the European standard, there are also various installation categories: \"universal\", \"vehicle-specific\" and \"semi-universal\". The main difference is that \"Universal\" represents use of a top tether strap with the ISOFIX anchorage, \"vehicle-specific\" represents the usage of the ISOFIX anchorage without the top tether in specified vehicles only, while \"Semi-Universal\" represents usage of the ISOFIX anchorage together with a \"foot-prop\".\n\nIsofix is designed to secure a maximum combined weight (comprising both seat and child) of 33kg. \n\nThe center-to-center distance between the anchors of ISOFIX (and also LATCH) systems is 280 mm. \n\nFor Group 2/3 seats there is a system called ISOFIT which anchors the seat to the vehicle so it cannot slide around when not in use. In the case of Isofit, the child is held into the seat using the vehicle's existing seat belt system, not the safety seat's straps.\n\nOn September 19, 2014, the Australian government legalized the use of ISOFIX child seats. Prior to this date, their sale (and use) in Australia was illegal.\n\nThe ISOFIX system was developed jointly by child safety seat maker Britax-Römer and automobile maker VW, with the first compatible products released in 1997.\n\nISO 13216 part 1 (covering lower anchorage points) was published in 1999. Part 2, covering top tether anchorages was published in December 2004.\n\nAmendments to include ISOFIX in UN ECE Regulations 14 & 44, which specify uniform provisions for the design of vehicle seat anchorages and child safety seats, came into force in February 2004.\n\nUnder the current UN/ECE R14, all new vehicles produced since February 2013 are required to have ISOFIX lower anchorages and top tether attachments.\n"}
{"id": "30242586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30242586", "title": "James Stedman Dixon", "text": "James Stedman Dixon\n\nJames Stedman Dixon (8 January 1845 – 18 July 1911) was a leading Scottish coal-mine owner, President of the Mining Institute of Scotland and of the Institution of Mining Engineers of Great Britain, and founder of the James S. Dixon Chair of Applied Geology in the University of Glasgow.\n\nJames Stedman Dixon was born at Glasgow on 8 January 1845, son of stockbroker Peter Watson Dixon and Jane Dow. The family moving to Hamilton in 1850, James Dixon attended the prestigious Hamilton Academy school, later attending classes in engineering at the University of Glasgow under Professor Macquorn Rankine.\n\nApprenticed in 1863 to George Simpson, mining engineer of Glasgow, Dixon was to be made a partner in the Simpson firm in 1869, and on George Simpson’s death in 1871, took over the whole business. In the following year, Dixon started the Bent Colliery Company which was to become the largest mining operation in the Hamilton area. In 1890 Dixon expanded his interests by acquiring the mining division of James Dunlop and Co., of Clyde Iron Works, subsequently giving up his engineering business to concentrate on his mining interests which between them were producing some 1,250,000 tons of mined coal per annum. By 1898 his Bent Colliery business having greatly increased, Dixon was able to give up his interest in the Dunlop concern to concentrate on other interests, becoming Chairman of the Broxburn Oil Company and a director of both the Edinburgh Colliery Company and the Plean Colliery, among other business concerns.\n\nDixon was twice elected to serve as President of the Lanarkshire Coalmasters' Association, and was to become the first President of the Coalmasters' Insurance Association, formed as a result of the requirements of the Workmen's Compensation Act. He was later to serve (twice) as President of the Mining Institute of Scotland (eventually through mergers becoming in 2002 the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining), and as President of the Institution of Mining Engineers of Great Britain; and was appointed to the Royal Commission on Coal Supplies.\n\nIn 1902 Dixon endowed a Lectureship in Mining Engineering in the University of Glasgow increasing this endowment in 1907 to found the James S. Dixon Chair of Mining, appointments being made jointly between the University of Glasgow and the Royal Technical College (renamed in 1956 the Royal College of Science and Technology and in 1964 becoming the University of Strathclyde). In 1932, another notable former pupil of Hamilton Academy, Andrew Bryan was appointed to this Chair, as Professor of Mining. The founding ordnance being repealed in 1980, in 1989 the funds were relocated to found the present James S. Dixon Chair of Applied Geology in the University of Glasgow. For his services to education, James Dixon was awarded the degree of LLD by the university.\n\nIn addition, Dixon founded the Dr. James S. Dixon Bursary in Mining Engineering for pupils in technical subjects at Hamilton Academy, to assist them in attending the University of Glasgow, Faculty of Engineering. As a university benefactor, James Stedman Dixon is formally remembered annually on Glasgow University’s Commemoration Day.\n\nA leading member of the Conservative Party in Lanarkshire, Dixon twice served as President of North-East Lanarkshire Conservative Association, in addition to his appointments as a J.P. and Income Tax Commissioner for Lanarkshire. Married to Isabella Douglas in 1883, the couple had no children.\n\nJames Stedman Dixon died at his home, Fairleigh, in Bothwell, South Lanarkshire, on 18 July 1911.\n\n"}
{"id": "4847284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4847284", "title": "John Deere: American Farmer", "text": "John Deere: American Farmer\n\nJohn Deere: American Farmer is a farm construction and management simulation for Microsoft Windows featuring the John Deere license, developed by Gabriel Entertainment, published by Take 2 Interactive and Destineer Studios.\n\nThe goal of the game is to make a living by raising livestock such as beef cattle, dairy cows, and pigs, or by growing crops such as sunflowers, soybeans, wheat and corn. Players must contend with factors such as weather, market demand, employee skill.\n\nThere is a variety of John Deere equipment to choose from such as the 7820, 9520 and 5303 tractors with numerous attachments, and the 9660 combine with a hydraflex and corn headers. There are also smaller vehicles such as the John Deere Gator and ATVs. There is a built-in map editor that enables players to create their own map.\n\nIn 2006 a sequel, \"John Deere: American Farmer Deluxe\" was released and received positive reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "40909892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40909892", "title": "Judith Briles", "text": "Judith Briles\n\nJudith Briles is an author, publisher, consultant and professional speaker focused in the fields of finance and book publishing.\n\nShe is best known for being the founder of Author U, the co-founder of Mile High Press, and was CW2 Denver’s financial expert in the mid-2000s. Briles has been referred to as the \"Book Shepherd\" and is an advocate for author’s rights.\n\nBriles has earned both masters and doctorate of Business Administration degrees. In 2004, she was named the Woman of Distinction by the Girl Scouts of the United States of America.\n\nBriles is the co-founder of Mile High Press, Ltd., a small press and The Briles Group, Inc., a former Colorado-based research, training and consulting firm. She now owns The Book Shepherd, a consulting and implementation firm that works with authors and small publishers.\n\nBriles is an author of over thirty books including \"Show Me About Book Publishing\" with Rick Frishman and John Kremer, \"The Confidence Factor\" and \"Stabotage!\" She also travels internationally as a motivational speaker.\n\nHer work has been featured in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Time\", \"People\", \"USA Today\", \"Self\", \"McCalls\", \"Working Woman\", \"Family Circle\", \"The Washington Post\", \"Newsweek\" and \"The New York Times\". She is a frequent guest on national television and radio and has appeared on programs including \"CNN\", \"CNNfn\", \"Oprah\", \"John Gray\", \"MSNBC\" and \"Good Morning America\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44405610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44405610", "title": "Makers: The New Industrial Revolution", "text": "Makers: The New Industrial Revolution\n\nMakers: The New Industrial Revolution is the third book written by Chris Anderson, Editor in chief of \"Wired\" magazine. The book was published on October 2, 2012, by Crown Business. He is also the author of \"The Long Tail\", published in 2006. \"Makers\" focuses on a new industrial revolution as modern entrepreneurs, using open source design and 3-D printing, bring manufacturing to the desktop.\n\nThe book is largely based on his 2010 article, \"In the Next Industrial Revolution, Atoms Are the New Bits\". The ideas he portrayed, such as crowdsourcing of ideas, utilization of available lower-cost design and manufacturing tools, and reviewing options to outsource capital-intensive manufacturing were highlighted in the February 2010 \"Harvard Business Review\" article, \"From Do It Yourself to Do It Together\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18045351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18045351", "title": "Management Science (journal)", "text": "Management Science (journal)\n\nManagement Science is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers research on all aspects of management related to strategy, entrepreneurship, innovation, information technology, and organizations as well as all functional areas of business, such as accounting, finance, marketing, and operations. It is published by the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences and was established in 1954 by the Institute's precursor, The Institute of Management Sciences. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has an impact factor of 2.822.\n\nOn December 1, 1953 at the founding meeting at Columbia University, The Institute of Management Sciences was voted into existence and William Cooper was elected as the first president. Establishment of a journal, to be called \"Management Science\", was made the first order of business. Almost immediately after the meeting, Cooper recruited C. West Churchman to be the founding editor. Cooper, Churchman, and Abe Charnes then wrote the policy statement for the journal. Within weeks Churchman had assembled an editorial board and had the first issue ready for distribution at the first membership meeting of the institute in October 1954.\n\nC. West Churchman quickly built \"Management Science\", both in size and reputation. By 1960 when he stepped down as editor, the journal was publishing almost twice as many papers per year as it had in the first volume. True to his vision, Churchman published papers representing a wide range of disciplines, from optimization, inventory, and game theory to management psychology, leadership, and the epistemology of science.\n\nThe following persons are, or have been, editors-in-chief:\n\nAccording to Google Scholar, the following three papers have been cited most frequently:\n"}
{"id": "6746980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6746980", "title": "Martin de Villamil", "text": "Martin de Villamil\n\nFelipe Martin de Villamil or Martin Villamil (\"Gonzalez de la Galea y Villamil\" or \"Villamil Joly\") (1783-1843) was a trader in the Caribbeans and in Europe.\n\nMartin de Villamil, brother of the Ecuadorian independence hero José de Villamil, was born in New Orleans, Spanish Louisiana, in 1783, son of a trader and administrator (mayordomo) of the hospital of the city. He became a trader in the Caribbean.\n\nIn 1809, he married the daughter of the lieutenant of the king of Spain in Panama (1). Around 1812, he was one of the cofounders of the trade consulate in Cartagena. Later, he lived in Jamaica, where he owned sugar cane plantations.\n\nAfter that, Martin de Villamil and his family went to Europe: London, Paris, Italy (Bologna, Firenze). In 1820-1822, he welcomed in his villa of Sèvres, near Paris, the great Irish poet Thomas Moore (1779-1853).\n\nIn 1830, Martin Villamil met in Paris the général Francisco de Paula Santander (1792-1840), hero of the independence of Great Colombia.\n\nIn Bologna, he may have been a British consul. In Firenze, Madame Martin de Villamil, was a friend of Jérôme Bonaparte (brother of Napoléon Bonaparte), former king of Westphalia, who gave her the guard of his daughter, la princesse Mathilde, and of his house.\n\nMartin de Villamil died in Paris in 1843.\n\n"}
{"id": "12167051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12167051", "title": "Mervyn King (judge)", "text": "Mervyn King (judge)\n\nMervyn Eldred King (born 22 July 1937, Johannesburg) is a South African corporate attorney, arbitrator, mediator, corporate director, commission chair, author and speaker. A former judge of the Supreme Court of South Africa, he is currently chairman of the IIRC, chairman emeritus of the Global Reporting Initiative and director of the Association of Business Administrators of Southern Africa. He is best known for chairing the King Committee on Corporate Governance, which issued three comprehensive reports in 1994, 2002 and 2009 endorsing an integrated and inclusive approach to corporate governance in South Africa.\n\nKing was born on 22 July 1937 to Aubrey and Mona King. He attended the University of the Witwatersrand, where he earned his Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Law, and a higher diploma in tax law.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1964 he was a practising attorney. From 1965 to 1979 he was an advocate to the Supreme Court of South Africa, specialising in commercial law; he was appointed senior counsel in 1975. He became a judge of the Supreme Court of South Africa in 1977. He resigned that post in 1980 – reportedly after an altercation with Prime Minister P. W. Botha – and entered the commercial arena.\n\nHe became executive chairman of Frame Group Holdings, a textile giant, and executive chairman of First National Bank's corporate and investment banking group. In later years, he chaired and was a director of Capital Alliance Ltd and Metro Cash & Carry Ltd.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1989 he was the first chairman of Operation Hunger, a South African charity which aimed to feed children in rural areas; he is now honorary life president of that organisation.\n\nKing is a founding member of the Arbitration Foundation of Southern Africa. He has acted as a company inspector and commissioner of inquiry into the affairs of companies, and has chaired many meetings to effect compromises for company creditors and on behalf of shareholder interests. In 1994 he chaired a commission of inquiry into political divisions in athletics, drafting recommendations for future conduct of the sport in South Africa; this was followed up by his second commission investing the sport of tennis.\n\nIn July 1993 the Institute of Directors in South Africa asked King to chair the first official committee on corporate governance. The King Committee on Corporate Governance issued its first report (King I), a comprehensive code of corporate practices and conduct, in 1994. King viewed the committee as an opportunity to educate the recently democratized South African public on the principles of working in a free economy. King I was the first report of its kind in South Africa. In 2002, when the Earth Summit was held in Johannesburg, King pushed for a revision of the report (King II), including new sections on sustainability, the role of the corporate board, and risk management. The report was further revised in 2009 (King III). Compliance with the King Reports is a requirement for companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. The King Report on Corporate Governance has been cited as \"the most effective summary of the best international practices in corporate governance\".\n\nFrom 2000 to 2008, King was the South African representative on the International Chamber of Commerce's International Court of Arbitration in Paris. He was the first president of the Commonwealth Association of Corporate Governance and a former Governor of the International Corporate Governance Network.\n\nHe is currently a member of the Private Sector Advisory Group to the World Bank on Corporate Governance and a member of the international advisory boards of Stern Stewart (US), Tomorrow's Company (United Kingdom), and the Central European Corporate Governance Association. He chairs the Asian Centre of Corporate Governance, the United Nations Committee on Governance and Oversight, and the Global Reporting Initiative. He is the Chairman of the International Integrated Reporting Council.\n\nIn South Africa, King holds the following positions:\n\nKing has addressed conferences and lectured on corporate issues in 38 countries. He is a regular speaker on radio and television talk shows and had his own television series, \"King on Governance\".\n\n\nKing is married to Elizabeth Mae Miller; they have two sons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39766826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39766826", "title": "Mode of production", "text": "Mode of production\n\nIn the writings of Karl Marx and the Marxist theory of historical materialism, a mode of production (in German: \"Produktionsweise\", meaning \"the way of producing\") is a specific combination of the following:\n\nMarx regarded productive ability and participation in social relations as two essential characteristics of human beings and that the particular modality of these relations in capitalist production are inherently in conflict with the increasing development of human productive capacities.\n\nA precursor to this concept was Adam Smith's concept of mode of subsistence, which delineated a progression of society types based on the way in which society's members provided for their basic needs.\n\nBuilding on the four-stage theory of human development of the Scottish Enlightenment – Hunting/Pastoral/Agricultural/Commercial Societies, each with its own socio-cultural characteristics - Marx articulated the concept of mode of production: “The mode of production in material life determines the general character of the social, political, and spiritual processes of life”.\n\nMarx considered that the way people relate to the physical world and the way people relate to each other socially are bound up together in specific and necessary ways: “men [who] produce cloth, linen, silk...also produce the ‘social relations’ amid which they prepare cloth and linen”. People must consume to survive, but to consume they must produce and in producing they necessarily enter into relations which exist independently of their will.\n\nFor Marx, the whole secret of why/how a social order exists and the causes of social change must be discovered in the specific mode of production that a society has. He further argued that the mode of production substantively shaped the nature of the mode of distribution, the mode of circulation and the mode of consumption, all of which together constitute the economic sphere. To understand the way wealth was distributed and consumed, it was necessary to understand the conditions under which it was produced.\n\nA mode of production is historically distinctive for Marx because it constitutes part of an organic totality (or self-reproducing whole) which is capable of constantly re-creating its own initial conditions and thus perpetuate itself in a more or less stable ways for centuries, or even millennia. By performing social surplus labour in a specific system of property relations, the labouring classes constantly reproduce the foundations of the social order. A mode of production normally shapes the mode of distribution, circulation and consumption and is regulated by the state. As Marx wrote to Annenkov, “Assume particular stages of development in production, commerce and consumption and you will have a corresponding social order, a corresponding organization of the family and of the ranks and classes, in a word, a corresponding civil society”. \n\nHowever any given mode of production will also contain within it (to a greater or lesser extent) relics of earlier modes, as well as seeds of new ones. The emergence of new productive forces will cause conflict in the current mode of production. When conflict arises, the modes of production can evolve within the current structure or cause a complete breakdown.\n\nThe process by which social and economic systems evolve is based on the premise of improving technology. Specifically, as the level of technology improves, existing forms of social relations become increasingly insufficient for fully exploiting technology. This generates internal inefficiencies within the broader socioeconomic system, most notably in the form of class conflict. The obsolete social arrangements prevent further social progress while generating increasingly severe contradictions between the level of technology (forces of production) and social structure (social relations, conventions and organization of production) which develop to a point where the system can no longer sustain itself and is overthrown through internal social revolution that allows for the emergence of new forms of social relations that are compatible with the current level of technology (productive forces).\n\nThe fundamental driving force behind structural changes in the socioeconomic organization of civilization are underlying material concerns—specifically, the level of technology and extent of human knowledge and the forms of social organization they make possible. This comprises what Marx termed the materialist conception of history (see also materialism) and is in contrast to an idealist analysis, (such as that criticised by Marx in Proudhon), which states that the fundamental driving force behind socioeconomic change are the ideas of enlightened individuals.\n\nMarx and Engels often referred to the \"first\" mode of production as primitive communism. In classical Marxism, the two earliest modes of production were those of the tribal band or horde, and of the neolithic kinship group. Tribal bands of hunter gatherers represented for most of human history the only form of possible existence. Technological progress in the Stone Age was very slow; social stratification was very limited (as were personal possessions, hunting grounds being held in common); and myth, ritual and magic are seen as the main cultural forms. \n\nWith the adoption of agriculture at the outset of the Neolithic Revolution, and accompanying technological advances in pottery, brewing, baking, and weaving, there came a modest increase in social stratification, and the birth of class with private property held in hierarchical kinship groups or clans. \n\nAnimism was replaced by a new emphasis on gods of fertility; and a move from matriarchy to patriarchy (arguably) took place at the same time.\n\nThe Asiatic mode of production is a controversial contribution to Marxist theory, first used to explain pre-slave and pre-feudal large earthwork constructions in India, the Euphrates and Nile river valleys (and named on this basis of the primary evidence coming from greater \"Asia\"). The Asiatic mode of production is said to be the initial form of class society, where a small group extracts social surplus through violence aimed at settled or unsettled band and village communities within a domain. It was made possible by a technological advance in data-processing – writing, cataloguing and archiving - as well as by associated advances in standardisation of weights and measures, mathematics, calendar-making and irrigation.\n\nExploited labour is extracted as forced corvee labour during a slack period of the year (allowing for monumental construction such as the pyramids, ziggurats and ancient Indian communal baths). Exploited labour is also extracted in the form of goods directly seized from the exploited communities. The primary property form of this mode is the direct religious possession of communities (villages, bands, and hamlets, and all those within them) by the gods: in a typical example, three-quarters of the property would be allotted to individual families, while the remaining quarter would be worked for the theocracy. The ruling class of this society is generally a semi-theocratic aristocracy which claims to be the incarnation of gods on earth. The forces of production associated with this society include basic agricultural techniques, massive construction, irrigation, and storage of goods for social benefit (granaries). Because of the unproductive use of the creamed-off surplus, such Asiatic empires tended to be doomed to fall into decay.\n\nSometimes referred to as \"slave society,\" an alternative route out of neolithic self-sufficiency came in the form of the polis or city-state. Technological advances in the form of cheap iron tools, coinage, and the alphabet, and the division of labour between industry, trade and farming enabled new and larger units to develop in the form of the polis, which called in turn for new forms of social aggregation. A host of urban associations – formal and informal – took over from earlier familial and tribal groupings. Constitutionally agreed law replaced the vendetta - an advance celebrated in such new urban cultural forms as Greek tragedy: thus, as Robert Fagles put it, “The \"Oresteia\" is our rite of passage from savagery to civilization...from the blood vendetta to the social justice”.\n\nClassical Greek and Roman societies are the most typical examples of this antique mode of production. The forces of production associated with this mode include advanced (two field) agriculture, the extensive use of animals in agriculture, industry (mining and pottery), and advanced trade networks. It is differentiated from the Asiatic mode, in that property forms included the direct possession of individual human beings(slavery); while the ruling class usually avoids the more outlandish claims of being the direct incarnation of a god and prefers to be the descendants of gods, or seeks other justifications for its rule, including varying degrees of popular participation in politics.\n\nIt was, however, not democracy but rather the universalising of its citizenship that eventually enabled Rome to set up a Mediterranean-wide urbanised empire, knit together by roads, harbours, lighthouses, aqueducts, and bridges, and with engineers, architects, traders and industrialists fostering interprovincial trade between a growing set of urban centres.\n\nThe fall of the Western Roman Empire returned most of Western Europe to subsistence agriculture, dotted with ghost towns and obsolete trade-routes Authority too was localised, in a world of poor roads and difficult farming conditions. The new social form which emerged in place of the ties of family or clan, of sacred theocracy or legal citizenship was a relationship based on the personal tie of vassal to lord, cemented by the link to landholding in the guise of the fief. This was the feudal mode of production, which dominated the systems of the West between the fall of the classical world and the rise of capitalism (similar systems existing in most of the world as well). This period also saw the decentralization of the ancient empires into the earliest nation-states.\nThe primary form of property is the possession of land in reciprocal contract relations, military service for knights, labour services to the lord of the manor by peasants or serfs tied to and entailed upon the land. Exploitation occurs through reciprocated contract (though ultimately resting on the threat of forced extractions). The ruling class is usually a nobility or aristocracy, typically legitimated by some concurrent form of theocracy. The primary forces of production include highly complex agriculture (two, three field, lucerne fallowing and manuring) with the addition of non-human and non-animal power devices (clockwork and wind-mills) and the intensification of specialisation in the crafts—craftsmen exclusively producing one specialised class of product.\n\nThe prevailing ideology was of a hierarchical system of society, tempered by the element of reciprocity and contract in the feudal tie. While, as Maitland warned, the feudal system had many variations, extending as it did over more than half a continent, and half a millennium, nevertheless the many forms all had at their core a relationship that (in the words of John Burrow) was “at once legal and social, military and economic...at once a way of organising military force, a social hierarchy, an ethos and what Marx would later call a mode of production”.\n\nDuring this period, a merchant class arises and grows in strength, driven by the profit motive but prevented from developing further profits by the nature of feudal society, in which, for instance, the serfs are tied to the land and cannot become industrial workers and wage-earners. This eventually precipitates an epoch of social revolution (i.e.: the English Civil War and the Glorious Revolution of 1688, the French Revolution of 1789, etc.) wherein the social and political organization of feudal society (or the \"property relations\" of feudalism) are overthrown by a nascent bourgeoisie.\n\nBy the close of the Middle Ages, the feudal system had been increasingly hollowed out by the growth of free towns, the commutation for money of servile labour, the replacement of the feudal host by a paid soldiery, and the divorce of retainership from land tenure - even if feudal privileges, ethics and enclaves would persist in Europe till the end of the millennium in rsidual forms. Feudalism was succeeded by what Smith called the Age of Commerce, and Marx the capitalist mode of production, which spans the period from mercantilism to imperialism and beyond, and is usually associated with the emergence of modern industrial society and the global market economy. Marx maintained that central to the new capitalist system was the replacement of a system of money serving as the key to commodity exchange (C-M-C, commerce), by a system of money leading (via commodities) to the re-investment of money in further production (M-C-M’, capitalism) - the new and overriding social imperative. \n\nThe primary form of property is that of private property in commodity form – land, materials, tools of production, and human labour, all being potentially commodified and open to exchange in a cash nexus by way of (state guaranteed) contract: as Marx put it, “man himself is brought into the sphere of private property”. The primary form of exploitation is by way of (formally free) wage labour (see \"Das Kapital\", with debt peonage, wage slavery, and other forms of exploitation) also possible. The ruling class for Marx is the bourgeoisie, or the owners of capital who possess the means of production, who exploit the proletariat for surplus value, as the proletarians possess only their own labour power which they must sell in order to survive. Yuval Harari reconceptualised the dichotomy for the 21st Century in terms of the rich who invest to re-invest, and the remainder who go into debt in order to consume for the benefit of the owners of the means of production. \n\nUnder Capitalism the key forces of production include the overall system of modern production with its supporting structures of bureaucracy, bourgeois democracy, and above all finance capital. The system’s ideological underpinnings took place over the course of time, Frederic Jameson for example considering that “the Western Enlightenment may be grasped as part of a properly bourgeois cultural revolution, in which the values and the discourse, the habits and the daily space, of the ancien régime were systematically dismantled so that in their place could be set the new conceptualities, habits and life forms, and value systems of a capitalist market society” - utilitarianism, rationalised production (Weber), training and discipline (Foucault) and a new capitalist time-structure.\n\nSocialism is the mode of production which Marx considered will succeed capitalism, and which will itself ultimately be succeeded by communism - the words socialism and communism both predate Marx and have many definitions other than those he used, however - once the forces of production outgrew the capitalist framework. \n\nIn his 1917 work \"The State and Revolution\", Lenin divided communism, the period following the overthrow of capitalism, into two stages: first socialism, and then later, once the last vestiges of the old capitalist ways have withered away, stateless communism or pure communism. Marx typically used the terms the \"first phase\" of communism and the \"higher phase\" of communism, but Lenin points to later remarks by Engels which suggest that Marx's \"first phase\" of communism typically equates with what people commonly think of as socialism. \n\nThe Marxist definition of socialism is a mode of production where the sole criterion for production is use-value and therefore the law of value no longer directs economic activity. Marxist production for use is coordinated through conscious economic planning, while distribution of economic output is based on the principle of to each according to his contribution. The social relations of socialism are characterized by the working class effectively owning the means of production and the means of their livelihood, through one or a combination of cooperative enterprises, common ownership, or worker's self-management.\n\nKarl Marx and Friedrich Engels deliberately wrote very little on socialism, neglecting to provide any details on how it might be organized on the grounds that, until the new mode of production had itself emerged, all such theories would be merely Utopian: as Georges Sorel put it, “to attempt to erect an ideological superstructure in advance of the conditions of production on which it must be built...would be un-Marxist”. However, later in life, Marx pointed to the Paris Commune as the first example of a proletarian uprising and the model for a future socialist society organized into communes, observing:\n\nCommunism is the final mode of production, anticipated to arise inevitably from socialism due to historical forces. Marx did not speak in detail about the nature of a communist society, which he would describe interchangeably with the words socialism and communism. He did however refer briefly in the \"Critique of the Gotha Programme\" to the full release of productive forces in \"the highest phase of communist society...[when] society will be able to inscribe on its banner: ‘From each according to his capacities, to each according to his needs'”.\n\nIn any specific society or country, different modes of production might emerge and exist alongside each other, linked together economically through trade and mutual obligations. To these different modes correspond different social classes and strata in the population. For example, urban capitalist industry might co-exist with rural peasant production for subsistence and simple exchange and tribal hunting and gathering. Old and new modes of production might combine to form a hybrid economy.\n\nHowever, Marx's view was that the expansion of capitalist markets tended to dissolve and displace older ways of producing over time. A capitalist society was a society in which the capitalist mode of production had become the dominant one. The culture, laws and customs of that society might preserve many traditions of the preceding modes of production, thus although two countries might both be capitalist, being economically based mainly on private enterprise for profit and wage labour, these capitalisms might be very different in social character and functioning, reflecting very different cultures, religions, social rules and histories.\n\nElaborating on this idea, Leon Trotsky famously described the economic development of the world as a process of uneven and combined development of different co-existing societies and modes of production which all influence each other. This means that historical changes which took centuries to occur in one country might be truncated, abbreviated or telescoped in another. Thus, for example, Trotsky observes in the opening chapter of his history of the Russian Revolution of 1917 that \"[s]avages throw away their bows and arrows for rifles all at once, without travelling the road which lay between these two weapons in the past. The European colonists in America did not begin history all over again from the beginning\". Thus, old and new techniques and cultures might combine in novel and unique admixtures, which cannot be understood other than by tracing out the history of their emergence.\n\n"}
{"id": "18441713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18441713", "title": "Pacific Research Laboratories", "text": "Pacific Research Laboratories\n\nPacific Research Laboratories, Inc. (PRL) is a design, research and development (R&D) and prototype manufacturing company. It is the leading producer of Sawbones, designed to simulate bone architecture and a bone’s physical properties. It was founded in 1978. The company had 135 employees as of April 2016 and is the largest manufacturer in Vashon, Washington. It is locally referred to as \"The Bone Factory.\"\n\nPRL has capabilities in (R&D) prototypes, short run production, and rapid prototyping. It is the manufacturer for Seaglider fairings, wings and rudders; Seaglider is an underwater glider autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) developed by the University of Washington. PRL also manufactures Super Shroud cell tower concealment shrouds.\n\nThe company also works in product development and design, including quick-turnaround projects using urethanes, silicones, glass/carbon fibers, braided fiberglass, thermoplastics, electronics, hydraulics, and pneumatics; the creation of prototypes, master patterns, and tooling; reverse engineering; laser scanning; and manufacturing using 3D printing, 3-axis CNC router, 4-axis CNC machining, and a triaxial fiberglass braider.\n\nIn December 2010, Pacific Research Laboratories became employee owned under an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP).\n\n"}
{"id": "42501332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42501332", "title": "Prudent Investment Rule", "text": "Prudent Investment Rule\n\nIn the utilities industry, the Prudent Investment Rule refers to a series of state standards which determine the fiscal soundness of a utility in the course of rate recovery for recoverable capital costs to be determined by that state’s Public Service Commission (PSC). The determination is established through a series of filings from the utility to the PSC and hearings conducted by the PSC. This occurs during a prudency hearing. The PSC follows these standards to determine if the capital costs were a \"prudent investment\". To determine the prudency of the investment, the PSC applies the prudent investment test or standard, determining if the costs were reasonable at the time they were incurred, and given the circumstances and what was known or knowable at the time, are to be included in the firm's rates. It is commonly used as an oversight tool by the government to ensure that money invested into a project is being spent as it was intended so the utility may recoup some costs in construction through a recovery in rates, hence the title prudent investment rule. Regulators can consider cases of hidden imprudence, but are required to consider what was known or knowable at the time the decision was made by the PSC.\nThe term Prudent Investment Rule, and the associated standards, have been established through a series of legal precedents. The first case to set precedent was the United States Supreme Court case of Munn v. Illinois in 1877, which allowed states to have a say in rates. Once the nature of recoverable capital costs was defined, a second question remained as to the rate at which that capital could be recovered. This issue was reasonably addressed in 1935 in Bluefield Water Works & Improvement Co. v. Public Service Commission of West Virginia, when the court said that a public utility is entitled to such rates as will permit it to earn a return equal to that generally being made at the same time and in the same general part of the country on investments in other business undertakings which are attended by corresponding risks and uncertainties.\n\nRate-of-return Regulation is a system for setting the prices charged by government-regulated monopolies, such as utility companies. There are several advantages to using rate-of-return regulation. The first is that it is sustainable if there is no competition because prices can be adjusted to the company’s changing conditions. It can also provide comfort to investors because rate-of-return regulation constrains the regulator’s discretion in setting prices. This lowers investor risk, which lowers the cost of capital. Company profits can be kept within acceptable levels from the perspectives of both investors and customers. Unless the regulator chronically underestimates the cost of capital (and courts do not reverse the regulator in this regard), investors can be confident they have a fair opportunity to receive the profits they expect and thus are willing to make investments. Customers can observe that the regulator is limiting company profits to the cost of capital.\n\nAccording to Oak Ridge National Laboratory, there are five categories that plants under construction may fall into that keep them from being included in the rate base. \n"}
{"id": "46371085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46371085", "title": "Robert Cooper (Australian businessman)", "text": "Robert Cooper (Australian businessman)\n\nRobert Cooper (1777-1857) was an Australian businessman in the early Colonial era of Sydney, responsible for the construction of many notable buildings and commercial ventures.\n\nCooper was born in London on 15 May 1777 to fishmonger Francis and Frances (née Pilkinton) Cooper, and ran two public houses in London, the White Swan on Ratcliffe Highway in the docklands and another in Piccadilly. In October 1812 he was convicted of smuggling and receiving stolen goods and was sentenced to penal transportation for fourteen years to New South Wales arriving on the \"Earl Spencer\" in October 1813. He received a conditional pardon in 1818.\n\nIn Sydney he was a prolific businessessmen. a partner in \"Cooper and Levey\", he opened a shop in George Street opposite the Town Hall and was running trading ventures to Van Deimansland in a small ship he bought. He also obtained an Auctioneer's licence and opened a distillery and brewery. \nOther ventures included milling flour and bread, cedar cutting, production of gunpowder, and weaving of cloth.\n\nBy 1830 he was one of the most wealthy men in Sydney becoming one of the principal shareholders in the Bank of New South Wales. He also owned large tracts of land in Paddington, Chippendale, Leichardt and Waterloo, Sydney. He stood for the New South Wales Legislative Council in 1843 but ran last.\n\nHe established \"Willeroo\" Station on the shore of Lake George, outside of Canberra Australia, and built Juniper Hall in Paddington at the time the largest house in the Colony of New South Wales. He also commissioned Paddington Town Hall and founded Sydney Grammar School.\nCooper was known affectionately as 'Robert the Large'. He had three wives. Cooper's first wife died in 1818 in England soon after his conviction, his second wife, Elizabeth Kelley, died in childbirth 1821 in January 1822 he married a third time to Sarah May, from the Hawkesbury River district. Altogether he had some twenty-eight children. His son Frederick Augustus (1834-1908), became a barrister and served as a member of both the New South Wales and Queensland legislatures, another Robert Cooper was Mayor of Ulladulla in 1896. His grandson was Sir Pope Alexander Cooper, Attorney General of Queensland and also Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of Queensland.\nCooper died at Paddington on 25 May 1857, aged 80, and his wife Sarah died on 6 November 1863.\n\n"}
{"id": "3609489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3609489", "title": "Rufus C. Dawes", "text": "Rufus C. Dawes\n\nRufus Cutler Dawes (July 30, 1867 – January 8, 1940) was an American businessman in oil and banking from a prominent Ohio family. He and his three brothers all became nationally known. In the 1920s he served as an expert on the commissions to prepare the Dawes Plan and the Young Plan to manage German reparations to the Allies after World War I.\n\nHe had most of his career in Chicago, where he was involved in civic organizations. He served as president of the Commercial Club of Chicago, and from 1934-1940, as head of the World's Fair organization and the Museum of Science & Industry (MSI). \n\nDawes was born in Marietta, Ohio, to Brigadier General Rufus R. Dawes and Mary Beman (Gates) Dawes. He was a younger brother of Charles G. Dawes and great-great-grandson of Revolutionary War figure William Dawes. His two younger brothers, Beman Gates Dawes and Henry May Dawes, also achieved national reputations. His middle name of Cutler is in honor of his paternal grandmother, Sarah Cutler's family (She was a daughter of Ephraim Cutler who was the son of Manasseh Cutler.) Cutler was also the name of Lysander Cutler, one of Rufus Dawes' American Civil War colleagues in the Iron Brigade.\n\nDawes graduated from Marietta College with an A.B. in 1886 and A.M. in 1889.\n\nHe married Helen B. Palmer on June 3, 1893. \n\nDawes became active with his brothers in many gas and lighting utilities. He was selected as president of the Union Gas & Electric Company, Metropolitan Gas & Electric Company, and Dawes Brothers, Inc.\n\nHe became involved in public service in 1918, when he was appointed to serve on the Illinois State Pension Laws Commission (1918–1919). In 1920, he was selected as a delegate to the Illinois constitutional convention. \n\nHis brother Charles appointed him to serve on the experts commission preparing the Dawes Plan in 1924, to settle an international crisis in Europe and develop a staggered plan for Germany to pay its reparations. Because of his contribution, Dawes was also asked to work as assistant to Owen D. Young, who developed the succeeding Young Plan in 1929. \n\nDawes was a member of the Commercial Club of Chicago, serving as president in 1925-26. He was president of A Century of Progress Corporation from 1927 until his death in 1940. \n\nFrom 1934 until his death, Dawes was concurrently president of the World's Fair organization and the Museum of Science & Industry (MSI). Dawes was the third president of the MSI, after Sewell Avery and William Rufus Abbott. Previously, he had been an active member of the Board of Trustees, helping to brief Waldemar Kaempffert when the latter became the first Executive Director of the Museum of Science & Industry in 1928. (Kaempffert was the \"New York Times\" science editor and served again after his time at the museum.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30237487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30237487", "title": "Shrine of St. Elizabeth Ann Bayley Seton", "text": "Shrine of St. Elizabeth Ann Bayley Seton\n\nThe Shrine of St. Elizabeth Ann Bayley Seton is located in the Church of Our Lady of the Holy Rosary, a Roman Catholic parish church of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York at 7 State Street, between Pearl and Water Streets in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City.\n\nAfter the Civil War, Irish author Charlotte Grace O'Brien bought the James Watson House to be the Mission of Our Lady of the Rosary, which served as a way station for young immigrant girls. The parish was established in 1884 as a mission and raised to parish status in 1886 when Cardinal John McCloskey directed that Lower Manhattan and the Harbor Islands be separated from St. Peter’s Parish and constitute the Parish of Our Lady of the Rosary.\n\nOn November 2, 2014, the Archdiocese of New York announced that the parish of Our Lady of the Rosary will merge with St. Peter's on Barclay Street, becoming one parish with two sites. Our Lady of the Rosary is an atypical parish, with no significant resident population. Masses and sacraments will continue to be celebrated at Our Lady of the Rosary.\n\nElizabeth Ann Seton lived next door at 8 State Street after the bankruptcy of William Seton's business forced them to give up the Seton family home at 61 Stone Street. They stayed here from 1801 to 1803 before sailing to Italy for William's health. In 1840 the site held the offices of a number of transportation companies, such as the New York and Hammondsport Lake Line Boats, the New York and Ithaca Line, and the New York and Seneca Falls Line Lake Boats. It also served as the \"Eight South Street Hotel\". The Georgian Revival / Colonial Revival brick church was built in 1964-5 and was designed by the firm of Shanley & Sturges.\n\nThe church is located next to the James Watson House, a New York City landmark which is also listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Built in 1793 and extended in 1806, the eastern portion is the work of an unknown architect, and the western half is attributed to John McComb, Jr. In 1975, the house became the Rectory of the Shrine.\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "21406281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21406281", "title": "St. Paul's Episcopal Church (Baltimore, Maryland)", "text": "St. Paul's Episcopal Church (Baltimore, Maryland)\n\nSt. Paul's Protestant Episcopal Church, more commonly called Old St. Paul's Church today, is a historic Episcopal church located at 233 North Charles Street at the southeast corner with East Saratoga Street, in Baltimore, Maryland, (United States) near \"Cathedral Hill\" on the northern edge of the downtown central business district to the south and the Mount Vernon-Belevedere cultural/historic neighborhood to the north. It was founded in 1692 as the parish church for the \"Patapsco Parish\", one of the \"original 30 parishes\" of the old Church of England in colonial Maryland (now part of the Episcopal Church, U.S.A. and the Anglican Communion).\n\nSt. Paul's was founded in 1692 under the Establishment Act, by the General Assembly of Maryland under Lionel Copley, then the colonial/provincial Governor of Maryland, in the Province of Maryland under the Lord Proprietorship of the Lords Baltimore, which created 30 \"Protestant\" (Anglican) parishes in the colony of Maryland. The first church as \"Patapsco Parish\" was located somewhere along near the head of Colgate Creek, on the north shore of the Patapsco River and \"Patapsco Neck\" peninsula which juts into the Chesapeake Bay at North Point and Sparrows Point between the Patapsco River to the south and Back River (Maryland) to the north. Modern-day Highlandtown and Canton in southeastern Baltimore City and Dundalk, Edgemere, and Fort Howard are in suburban communities in southeastern Baltimore County there now. When Baltimore Town was founded in its present location in 1729/1730, the parish moved to \"Lot 19,\" in the Original Survey\" of 1730 at the highest point just inside the original town boundaries on the north end which were purchased from Charles Carroll of Annapolis, (1702-1782), (father of nationally famous Charles Carroll of Carrollton, (1732-1832), later longest living signer of Declaration of Independence, only Roman Catholic to do so, and wealthiest man in America). Here a small brick church, (facing south towards the harbor), a rectory and some cemetery plots were placed in 1739 on a cliff overlooking the Jones Falls stream (which divided the town from adjacent Jonestown to the east and Fells Point to the southeast waterfront) and northwest of the original Courthouse Square (later became Battle Monument Square after its construction, 1815-1822) at North Calvert between East Lexington and Fayette Streets. The present \"Old Saint Paul's Church (as it is generally known throughout the state) is located now on a portion of that property, in the northwest corner of the original platted lot of 1730.\n\nA second brick church, also built facing south towards \"The Basin\" (Inner Harbor) was also constructed of brick and completed in 1784 and consecrated by Bishop Thomas John Claggett, first Episcopal Bishop of Maryland (consecrated/ordained 1792) in 1797 (also the year of Baltimore Town's incorporation into a City) and endured on the site until 1812 when replaced by the Long-designed edifice. The second church continued to use the former steeple of the first church building as a private prayer chapel where it was relocated in the middle of the surrounding cemetery to the north and west along the sloping hill along future East Saratoga Street and Saint Paul Lane/Street. Gravestones, bodies and coffins, along with other cemetery material were relocated in 1800 to the western side of town at a new plot and cemetery at West Lombard and Fremont Streets, near the present Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard, (which curves around the west-side of downtown) and southwest of the multi-blocks campus of the downtown University of Maryland at Baltimore. Construction of King Boulevard in the late 1970s required that a portion of the historic cemetery on its western side was taken for road and sidewalk use and the ancient plots and stone wall were moved slightly eastward and reconstructed. Numerous American Revolutionary War, War of 1812 officers and soldiers are buried here, along with an unusually large number of Baltimore and Maryland civic, business and commercial leaders from early history are resting quietly, with only occasional family/descendents visitors and annual ceremonies by patriotic, military and ancestral heritage associations on various holidays take place.\n\nAll Episcopal parishes in Baltimore City and many in Baltimore County (along with Harford, Cecil, Kent, and Carroll Counties, which were formerly part of old original Baltimore County in the 17th and early 18th Centuries) are in some way traced to Old St. Paul's Church. The first \"daughter\" congregation, Christ Church (closed 1986), was created in 1796 near the present day War Memorial/City Hall Plaza at the southwest corner of South Gay and East Fayette Streets. This building was later transferred to another Episcopal parish named Messiah which remained here until burned in the Great Baltimore Fire of 1904. Christ Episcopal congregation then moved to the northwest corner of St. Paul and East Chase Streets, where the building is now used by a fundamentalist Protestant congregation. Another congregation, St. Peter's, was created in an evangelical controversy resulting in a split from Old St. Paul's in 1801 during the rectorate of Rev. Dr. Joseph Bend; that congregation is known today known as Grace and St. Peter's Church, located at Park Avenue and West Monument Street, two blocks west of the Washington Monument, across the street from the former brownstone mansion which served as Diocesan House (bishop's and administrative staff offices) in the Mount Vernon-Belvedere neighborhood, further northwest. Grace and St. Peter's Parish has now evolved into a high church \"Anglo-Catholic\" parish, with a very well-regarded co-educational private day school.\n\nThe third building in Baltimore City (and fourth of the parish in its history) erected for St. Paul's was designed by noted Baltimore architect Robert Cary Long, Jr., (1810-1849), and constructed in 1812 (some sources say 1814-1817). This neo-classical structure faced towards the west on Charles Street, seated 1,600 people in the main level and galleries and was graced with a 126 foot high spire. The three orders of Greek columns adorned the building. It was destroyed by fire in 1854; the cross that fell from that tower now adorns the old Church Home Hospital on Broadway in Baltimore. The fourth church was completed two years later.\n\nThe 1856 building reflected the growing influence of the Oxford Movement in the Episcopal Church. Richard Upjohn's design for the new building invoked not the democratic values of the Federal Period but the Catholicism of Italy, which he had recently toured. He also had just designed the famous Gothic Trinity Church on Wall Street in lower New York City Since the existing walls of St. Paul's did not allow for the pointed-gothic design preferred by the Ecclesiological Society, Upjohn patterned the building after the Basilica of San Giorgio in Rome. The side galleries so important to preaching were not rebuilt, and focus in the building was dramatically pointed to the altar with a spacious (for the time) chancel.\n\nThus the \"high church\" position that St. Paul's had occupied since the rectorate of Dr. Bend became more pronounced, especially under the rectorate of Dr. William Wyatt, who oversaw the construction of the new building and the creation of a number of Anglo-Catholic mission parishes around Baltimore City, most notably Mount Calvary Church. His successor, Rev'd. Milo Mahan, introduced candles on the altar and seasonal liturgical colors.\n\nTwo rectors of Old St. Paul's have gone on to become bishops of the Episcopal Diocese of Maryland: The Right Rev. James Kemp (1764-1827) and the Right Rev. Harry Lee Doll, (1903-1984).\n\nFor many years St. Paul's held the distinction of having the finest liturgical music in the city. In 1873, the Rev. John Sebastian Bach Hodges replaced the church's paid quartet with a professional Choir of Men and Boys, which sang continuously for 141 years. In 2002 a Choir of Girls was created during the rectorship of the Rev. David Cobb, as a complementary ensemble. A mixed adult choir (volunteers plus professionals), formed under the leadership of the Rev. Mark Stanley, now sings for the primary Sunday service. Noted former Organist/Choirmasters of Old St. Paul's include Rodney Hansen, Daniel Fortune, Jeremy Filsell, Diane Meredith Belcher, and Douglas Buchanan.\n\nThe present church was designed by renowned architect Richard Upjohn, with an eclectic juxtaposition of 12th-century Italian elements on the exterior and Romanesque elements on the interior. The exterior facade features two bas-reliefs of Christ and Moses, executed by the Italian sculptor Antonio Capellano (who also sculpted the statue on the top of the Battle Monument) that were originally part of the façade of the previous Robert Cary Long church. Other elements from the 1817 structure include the walls of the Federal period building, a stained glass window of the risen Christ over the entrance, a marble baptismal font designed by Maximilian Godefroy (who also designed the Battle Monument and the First Unitarian Church), and the Bishop's chair given to St. Paul's in 1815.\n\nThe church was given a relatively dark Victorian appearance when opened. The Greek columns were painted a sandstone orange, with an elaborate color scheme of brown, red, and yellow ochres dominating the rest of the nave. The chancel was dominated by a black walnut reredos. A small stained-glass window of St. Paul stood above the high altar. English Minton tiles adorned the aisles and chancel that complimented the color scheme of the church. An anonymous painting of this interior is still in the possession of the parish.\n\nIn 1903, the chancel was renovated to a brighter appearance, in accordance with the tastes of the period. The reredos was moved to the back of the church (where it still stands as a memorial wall), and a new Tiffany reredos was installed with a completely new design for the east wall, including a large chancel window by Helen Maitland Armstrong was installed above the altar, with the St. Paul window moved to the south aisle. The ochres of the 1850s gave way to white faux blocks etched into the nave.\n\nThe oldest of the aisle windows date to 1890, but most were installed at the same time as the chancel redecoration. The designers include Tiffany Studios of New York City and Clayton & Bell Studios.\n\nIn the 1930s, the faux blocking was removed, leaving only tracery around the windows. The chancel was renovated for cleaning and maintenance in the 1990s. In the summer of 2013, the interior of the church underwent a historic restoration that included painting the nave and adding a blue field with gold stars to the ceiling.\n\nProminent members of the parish include Samuel Chase, John Eager Howard, Thomas Johnson, and William Donald Schaefer (mayor of Baltimore and governor, comptroller of Maryland).\n\nSt. Paul's Protestant Episcopal Church was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973. It is included within the Cathedral Hill Historic District and the Baltimore National Heritage Area.\n\n"}
{"id": "32344608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32344608", "title": "Svenskt utlandsregistrerat företag", "text": "Svenskt utlandsregistrerat företag\n\nSvenskt utlandsregistrerat företag, Svensk utlandsregistrerad filial or just SUF, meaning \"Swedish Foreign Registered Branch/Company\".\n\nCompare with Norskregistrert utenlandsk foretak.\n"}
{"id": "604206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604206", "title": "Think and Grow Rich", "text": "Think and Grow Rich\n\nThink and Grow Rich was written in 1937 by Napoleon Hill, promoted as a personal development and self-improvement book. Hill writes that he was inspired by a suggestion from business magnate and later-philanthropist Andrew Carnegie. \n\nWhile the book's title and much of the text concerns increasing income, the author insists that his philosophy can help people succeed in any line of work, to do and be anything they can imagine. First published during the Great Depression, the book by Hill's death in 1970 had sold more than 20 million copies. By 2015 more than 100 million copies had been sold worldwide. \n\nIt remains the biggest seller of Napoleon Hill's books. \"BusinessWeek\" magazine's Best-Seller List ranked it the sixth best-selling paperback business book 70 years after it was published. \"Think and Grow Rich\" is listed in John C. Maxwell's \"A Lifetime \"Must Read\" Books List.\" \n\n\"Think and Grow Rich\" is based on Hill's earlier work \"The Law of Success\", said to be the result of more than twenty years of study of many individuals who had amassed personal fortunes.\n\nHill studied their habits and drew some 16 \"laws\" to be applied to achieve success. \"Think and Grow Rich\" condenses them, providing the reader with 13 principles in the form of a \"Philosophy of Achievement\". Mark Hansen has said time has shown that two of the laws/principles are most important: 1) The MasterMind principle/process and 2) \"Know very clearly where you want to go.\"\n\nThe book asserts that desire, faith, and persistence can propel one to great heights if one can suppress negative thoughts and focus on long-term goals.\n\nThe 13 \"steps\" listed in the book are:\n\nThere are several courses created from the \"Think and Grow Rich\" content and principles. Earl Nightingale co-created with Napoleon Hill a 30-minute audio summary of the book, titled \"Think and Grow Rich: Instant Motivator\".\n\n"}
{"id": "969119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=969119", "title": "Tony Ryan", "text": "Tony Ryan\n\nHe was a founder of Guinness Peat Aviation (GPA) as well as co-founder of Ryanair with Christopher Ryan and Liam Lonergan. Ryanair was believed to be the main source of his wealth in later life: the company is now one of the biggest airlines in Europe and is valued at over 10 billion US dollars as of 2012.\n\nRyan held honorary doctorates from several universities, including Trinity College, Dublin, the National University of Ireland, Galway and the University of Limerick.\n\nBorn in Thurles, County Tipperary, Ryan worked for Aer Lingus, before going on to found their aircraft leasing arm, wet-leasing out their aircraft in the quieter winter months.\n\nIn 1975, with Aer Lingus and the Guinness Peat Group, he founded Guinness Peat Aviation (later GPA Group), an aircraft leasing company, with a $50,000 investment. GPA grew to be the world's biggest aircraft lessor, worth $4 billion at its peak. But its value dramatically collapsed in 1992 after the cancellation of its planned IPO. Ryan made €55m from the sale of AerFi (the successor to GPA) in 2000. Ryan was a tax exile who lived in Monte Carlo, but also owned a stud farm near his home in Dolla County Tipperary. He was the 7th wealthiest individual from Ireland in the Sunday Times Rich List 2007 with over €1.5bn(£1bn).\n\nRyan over the years helped nurture two successful business protégés – Denis O'Brien and Michael O'Leary – both of whom became billionaires.\n\nRyan was an active and innovative funder of university education in Ireland. He donated a marine science institute to NUI Galway in 1993 which was named the Martin Ryan Marine Science Institute in honour of his father. He showed interest in marine science and aquaculture development in the west of Ireland. He also funded The Ryan Academy for Entrepreneurship at the Citywest park, that is run by Dublin City University.\n\nIn 2001, Ryan acquired Castleton Farm near Lexington, Kentucky from the Van Lennep Family Trust. Ryan renamed it Castleton Lyons and undertook renovations to the property while returning to its original roots as a thoroughbred operation.\n\nAt the time of his death he owned 16% of Tiger Airways, a discount carrier based in Singapore which was founded in December 2003.\n\nRyan, who lived at Lyons Demesne in Ardclough, County Kildare, died on 3 October 2007, aged 71, following an 18-month battle with pancreatic cancer. He had other homes in London, Castleton Lyons stud in Kentucky, Château Lascombes near Bordeaux and on Ibiza. His eldest son, Cathal, died just three months later, aged 48, after being diagnosed with cancer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29746548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29746548", "title": "Tristan Thompson", "text": "Tristan Thompson\n\nTristan Trevor James Thompson (born March 13, 1991) is a Canadian professional basketball player for the Cleveland Cavaliers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played one season of college basketball for Texas before being drafted fourth overall by the Cavaliers in the 2011 NBA draft. He also represents Canada in international competition. Thompson won an NBA championship with the Cavaliers in 2016.\n\nBorn in Toronto, Thompson attended St. Marguerite d'Youville Secondary School in Brampton for his freshman year. After driving from Brampton twice to visit a prep school in the United States, Thompson decided to attend Saint Benedict's Preparatory School in Newark, New Jersey for his sophomore year along with fellow University of Texas at Austin commit Myck Kabongo. He cited the increase in exposure and skill level as his reason for transferring.\n\nThompson spent his sophomore and half his junior year at St. Benedict's, making an immediate impact and showing flashes of brilliance. In his short time there, he shot through the ranks to super-stardom, becoming the top recruit in the nation entering his junior season. The nation's top basketball programs heavily sought Thompson, who made the first verbal commitment of the class of 2010 to Rick Barnes and the Texas Longhorns.\n\nTwenty-one games into his junior year, the relationship between Thompson and then-St. Benedict's coach Dan Hurley hit a rough patch. Hurley's in-your-face, no-holds-barred coaching style took a toll on the young star. During a game against then-top-ranked Mater Dei, Hurley confronted Thompson during a time out. A heated debate ensued, and Thompson was sent off the court and later removed from the team. Over the next few days he made it known that he was planning to leave, resulting in a barrage of calls from top prep schools throughout North America trying to acquire his services. The next week he transferred to Findlay Prep with his close friend and AAU teammate Cory Joseph.\n\nThompson joined Findlay on the back end of their schedule, making an immediate impact on the team and thriving under Findlay coach Michael Peck's system and coaching style. Thompson solidified his top recruit status and helped lead Findlay to their first National Championship. He continued to round and polish his skills his senior year in preparation for college and held fast to his commitment to the University of Texas, officially signing his letter of intent on November 11, 2009. Thompson then led his team to another National Championship at the ESPN National High School Invitational. After their senior year, Thompson and Joseph both committed to Texas and were the fourth and fifth Canadians to be named McDonald's All-Americans, after Bill Wennington (1981), Barry Bekkedam (1986) and Olu Famutimi (2003). Thompson was also named a Jordan Brand Classic All-American.\n\nThompson averaged 13.1 points and 7.8 rebounds per game for the Texas Longhorns in 2010–11 as he won the team's Most Valuable Player award, as voted on by his teammates. Nationally, Thompson was one of five finalists for the Wayman Tisdale Award, an honor given to the National Freshman of the Year by the U.S. Basketball Writers Association. Thompson won the Big 12 Freshman of the Year honours as well as first-team NABC All-District 8 and USBWA All-District VII honours. He led the team in rebounding, blocked shots (86), double-doubles (10) and field goal percentage (.546) while ranking second in scoring. He helped Texas conclude the 2010–11 season with a 28–8 record and advanced to the NCAA Tournament Round of 32. The Longhorns finished No. 8 in the final AP poll.\n\nThompson told media after the NCAA tournament that he planned to return to Texas for his sophomore season but changed his mind. On April 21, 2011, he declared for the NBA draft, forgoing his three years of college eligibility.\n\nOn June 23, 2011, Thompson was drafted fourth overall in the 2011 NBA draft by the Cleveland Cavaliers. At the time, he was the highest drafted Canadian-born player in NBA history, that was until Anthony Bennett and Andrew Wiggins were selected with the first overall pick in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Thompson continued to make history, drafted alongside Joseph, who was picked 29th by the San Antonio Spurs, one of only two occasions in NBA history that two Canadians were selected in the first round of the same draft, the other being in 1983 when Leo Rautins and Stewart Granger were selected 17th and 25th respectively. The 2011 draft was also the first time three Texas Longhorn basketball players went in the first round of a draft, when Thompson's former collegiate teammate Jordan Hamilton went 26th overall to the Dallas Mavericks.\n\nDuring the 2011 NBA lockout, Thompson attended classes at the University of Texas to finish his college degree. Thompson signed his rookie contract with the Cavaliers on December 9, 2011 before the start of training camp. Thompson made his professional debut against his hometown Toronto Raptors on December 26, 2011. In 17 minutes off the bench, Thompson scored 12 points and pulled in 5 rebounds. Thompson came off the bench behind veteran forwards Antawn Jamison and Anderson Varejão for the first three months of his rookie season but still managed to make his presence known on both ends of the court. His production increased in February as his minutes increased, and he recorded three double-doubles that month. His best performance in February was a 15-point, 12-rebound, two-block effort in 30 minutes of play as the Cavaliers defeated Sacramento 93-92. Both Thompson and teammate Kyrie Irving were later named to the 2012 Rising Stars Challenge. However, Thompson was selected to play for Team Shaq, while Irving was selected by Team Chuck.\n\nThompson was inserted into the starting lineup on March 18 against Atlanta as Varejao continued to recover from a fractured wrist. He recorded seven points and six rebounds. The turning point of his season came in the following game against New Jersey, when he posted a 27-point, 12-rebound performance in a 105-100 road win. After Varejao was ruled out indefinitely, head coach Byron Scott decided to start Thompson at centre for the remainder of the regular season. Thompson did not disappoint, upping his averages to 9.3 points, 7.5 rebounds and just under one block per game as a starter. He shone in April even with Cleveland out of the playoff race, scoring in double figures in 10 of his final 16 games and blocking a season-high four shots against Memphis on April 23. He finished the season with averages of 8.2 points and 6.5 rebounds in 60 games as he earned NBA All-Rookie second team honours, becoming the first Canadian to ever earn All-Rookie team honours in the NBA.\n\nIn 2012–13, Thompson worked on avoiding getting his own shots blocked, and switched his shooting hand from left to right. For most of the season, almost 17%, or one out of six, of his shots were blocked, threatening former NBA player Danny Fortson's 16.7% rate in 1997–98. Thompson dropped to around 15% by season's end, which was only reached by three other players before the season. He went on to average 3.7 offensive rebounds per game, which ranked fifth in the NBA and first among second year players, and set the Cavaliers franchise record for most offensive rebounds in a single season with 306 (second in the NBA), surpassing Zydrunas Ilgauskas' 299 offensive rebounds in the 2004–05 season. He also recorded a team-high 31 double-doubles on the season, becoming just the ninth player in franchise history to total at least 30 double-doubles in a single season. He started all 82 games in 2012–13 as he averaged 11.7 points on .488 shooting, 9.4 rebounds and 0.9 blocks in 31.3 minutes per game.\n\nIn the 2013 off-season, Thompson decided to switch his shooting hand to his right instead of his left. Despite the change, he had an almost identical season for the Cavaliers in 2013–14, as he started all 82 games while averaging 11.7 points and 9.2 rebounds in 31.6 minutes per game. He tied for fifth in the Eastern Conference with a team-leading and career-best 36 double-doubles.\n\nDuring the 2014 off-season, the Cavaliers acquired All-Star forwards LeBron James and Kevin Love. Thompson came off the bench for most of the season, providing energy and solidifying his place as one of the best offensive rebounders in the league, averaging 8.5 points and 8 rebounds per game. He played in all 82 games and started 15. The Cavaliers finished with a 53-29 record and made the playoffs for the first time since 2010. Early in the first round, Kevin Love dislocated his shoulder and was ruled out for the rest of the post-season. Thompson became the starter after Love's injury and helped the Cavaliers reach the 2015 NBA Finals. The Cavaliers faced the Golden State Warriors, and lost the series in six games. During the playoffs, Thompson emerged as one of the NBA's best rebounders, especially on the offensive glass. He became a restricted free agent after the season.\n\nOn October 22, 2015, Thompson re-signed with the Cavaliers on a five-year, $82 million contract, ending a four-month contract stalemate that caused Thompson to miss training camp, the preseason, and the FIBA Americas Championship. Throughout the 2015–16 season, Thompson shared the starting center role with Timofey Mozgov. On January 25, 2016, he recorded a season-high 19 points and 12 rebounds in a 114–107 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves. On March 26, in a win over the New York Knicks, Thompson tied Jim Chones' franchise record by appearing in his 361st consecutive game for the Cavaliers. He broke that record three days later, appearing in his 362nd consecutive game in a loss to the Houston Rockets. Thompson helped the Cavaliers reach the NBA Finals for the second consecutive season. There they made NBA history by coming back from a 3–1 deficit against the Golden State Warriors to win the series in seven games, ending a 52-year championship drought in Cleveland.\n\nOn December 26, 2016, in a loss to the Detroit Pistons, Thompson became the first player in franchise history to play in 400 consecutive regular-season games. On April 5, 2017, Thompson missed the Cavaliers' game against the Boston Celtics with a sprained right thumb. Thompson's absence ended his streak of consecutive games played at 447—the longest in team history and the longest active streak in the league at the time. He missed four games with the injury before returning to action in Cleveland's regular-season finale on April 12 against the Toronto Raptors. Thompson helped the Cavaliers go 12–1 over the first three rounds of the playoffs to reach the NBA Finals for a third straight season. There the Cavaliers matched-up with the Golden State Warriors, but lost the series in five games.\n\nOn November 2, 2017, Thompson was ruled out for three to four weeks with a left calf strain that he suffered the previous night against the Indiana Pacers. On December 12, 2017, he played in his first game since November 1; he went scoreless and did not have a rebound in 6 minutes against the Atlanta Hawks. On February 25, 2018, he had a season-high 13 rebounds in 23 minutes in a 110–94 loss to the San Antonio Spurs. In Game 7 of the Cavaliers' first-round playoff series against the Pacers, Thompson, who played just 24 minutes in the first six games, made a rare start and had 15 points and 10 rebounds in a 105–101 win. The Cavaliers made it to the 2018 NBA Finals, where they were swept by the Golden State Warriors.\n\nThompson represented his country and Canada Basketball at the FIBA Americas Under-18 Championship in 2008, where Canada won the bronze medal, placing behind Argentina and the United States. Thompson once again competed for Canada at the 2009 FIBA Under-19 World Championship in Auckland, New Zealand.\n\nAt the 2013 FIBA Americas Championship, Thompson averaged 11.6 points and 10.0 rebounds per game. He also competed in the 2016 FIBA World Olympic Qualifying Tournament, and in 2018, he played one game in a qualifying tournament for the 2019 FIBA World Cup.\n\n\nThompson is the oldest of four sons of Trevor and Andrea Thompson, who are from Jamaica. His younger brother Dishawn played high school basketball for Wesley Christian High School in Allen, Kentucky, where he was a highly rated prospect. He is also the cousin of former Virginia State University football standout and former Canadian Football League defensive tackle Jemal Thompson. In 2013, Thompson founded the Amari Thompson Fund, which works closely with Epilepsy Toronto to raise funds and awareness to support those affected by epilepsy. Thompson's youngest brother Amari has the neurological disorder and experiences seizures almost daily due to his condition.\n\nOn December 12, 2016, Thompson's ex-girlfriend Jordan Craig gave birth to his first child, son Prince Oliver.\n\nThompson is in a relationship with Khloé Kardashian, who announced her pregnancy with Thompson on December 20, 2017. Kardashian gave birth to her first child and Thompson's second, daughter True Thompson, on April 12, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "594441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=594441", "title": "United Kingdom corporation tax", "text": "United Kingdom corporation tax\n\nIn the United Kingdom, corporation tax is a corporate tax levied in the United Kingdom on the profits made by UK-resident companies and on the profits of entities registered overseas with permanent establishments in the UK. \n\nUntil 1 April 1965, companies were taxed at the same income tax rates as individual taxpayers, with an additional profits tax levied on companies. Finance Act 1965 replaced this structure for companies and associations with a single corporate tax, which took its basic structure and rules from the income tax system. Since 1997, the UK's Tax Law Rewrite Project has been modernising the UK's tax legislation, starting with income tax, while the legislation imposing corporation tax has itself been amended, the rules governing income tax and corporation tax have thus diverged. Corporation tax was governed by the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 (as amended) prior to the rewrite project.\n\nOriginally introduced as a classical tax system, in which companies were subject to tax on their profits and companies' shareholders were also liable to income tax on the dividends that they received, the first major amendment to corporation tax saw it move to a dividend imputation system in 1973, under which an individual receiving a dividend became entitled to an income tax credit representing the corporation tax already paid by the company paying the dividend. The classical system was reintroduced in 1999, with the abolition of advance corporation tax and of repayable dividend tax credits. Another change saw the single main rate of tax split into three. Tax competition between jurisdictions reduced the main corporate tax rate from 28% in 2008-2010 to a flat rate of 20% as of April 2015.\n\nThe UK government faced problems with its corporate tax structure, including European Court of Justice judgements that aspects of it are incompatible with EU treaties. Tax avoidance schemes marketed by the financial sector have also proven an irritant, and been countered by complicated anti-avoidance legislation.\n\nThe complexity of the corporation tax system is a recognised issue. The Labour government, supported by the Opposition parties, carried through wide-scale reform from the Tax Law Rewrite project, resulting in the Corporation Tax Act 2010. The tax has slowly been integrating generally accepted accounting practice, with the corporation tax system in various specific areas based directly on the accounting treatment.\n\nTotal net corporation tax receipts were a record high of £56 billion in 2016-17.\n\nUntil 1965, companies were subject to income tax on their profits at the same rates as was levied on individual taxpayers. A dividend imputation system existed, whereby the income tax paid by a company was offset against the income tax liability of a shareholder who received dividends from the company. The standard rate of income tax in 1949 was 50%. If the company paid a £100 dividend, the recipient would be treated as if he had earned £200 and had paid £100 in income tax on it – the tax paid by the company fully covered the tax due from the individual on the dividend paid. If, however, the individual was subject to tax at a higher rate (known as \"surtax\"), he (not the company) would be liable to pay the additional tax.\n\nIn addition to income tax, companies were also subject to a profits tax, which was deducted from company profits when determining the income tax liability. It was a differential tax, with a higher tax rate on dividends (profits distributed to shareholders) than on profits retained within the company. By penalising the distribution of profits, it was hoped companies would retain profits for investment, which was considered a priority after the Second World War. The tax did not have the desired effect, so the distributed profits tax was increased by 20% by the post-war Labour government to encourage companies to retain more of their profits. At the time of Hugh Gaitskell's 1951 budget, the profits tax was 50% for distributed profits and 10% for undistributed profits.\n\nA series of reductions in the profits tax were brought in from 1951 onwards by the new Conservative government. The tax rates fell to 22.5% on distributed profits and 2.5% on undistributed profits by 1957, but the profits tax was no longer income tax-deductible. Derick Heathcoat-Amory's Budget of March 1958 replaced the differential profits tax with a single profits tax measure, applicable to both retained and distributed profits. This gradual decrease, and final abolition, of taxes on capital distributions reflected ideological differences between the Conservative and Labour parties: the Conservative approach was to distribute profits to capital holders for investment elsewhere, while Labour sought to force companies to retain profits for reinvestment in the company in the hope this would benefit the company's workforce.\n\nFinance Act 1965 replaced the system of income tax and profits tax from 1 April 1965 with the Corporation Tax, which re-introduced aspects of the old system. Corporation Tax was charged at a uniform rate on all profits, but additional tax was then payable if profits were distributed as a dividend to shareholders. In effect, dividends suffered double taxation. This method of corporation tax is known as the classical system and is similar to that used in the United States. The effect of the tax was to revert to the distribution tax in operation from 1949 to 1959: dividend payments were subject to higher tax than profits retained within the company.\n\nFinance Act 1965 also introduced a capital gains tax, at a rate of 30%, charged on the gains arising on the disposal of capital assets by individuals. While companies were exempted from capital gains tax, they were liable to corporation tax on their \"chargeable gains\", which were calculated in substantially the same way as capital gains for individuals. The tax applied to company shares as well as other assets. Before 1965, capital gains were not taxed, and it was advantageous for taxpayers to argue that a receipt was non-taxable \"capital\" rather than taxable \"revenue\".\n\nThe basic structure of the tax, where company profits were taxed as profits, and dividend payments were then taxed as income, remained unchanged until 1973, when a partial imputation system was introduced for dividend payments. Unlike the previous imputation system, the tax credit to the shareholder was less than the corporation tax paid (corporation tax was higher than the standard rate of income tax, but the imputation, or set-off, was only of standard rate tax). When companies made distributions, they also paid the advance corporation tax (known as ACT), which could be set off against the main corporation tax charge, subject to certain limits (the full amount of ACT paid could not be recovered if significantly large amounts of profits were distributed). Individuals and companies who received a dividend from a UK company received a tax credit representing the ACT paid. Individuals could set off the tax credit against their income tax liability.\n\nOn introduction, ACT was set at 30% of the gross dividend (the actual amount paid plus the tax credit). If a company made a £70 dividend payment to an individual, the company would pay £30 of advance corporation tax. The shareholder would receive the £70 cash payment, plus a tax credit of £30; thus, the individual would be deemed to have earned £100, and to have already paid tax of £30 on it. The ACT paid by the company would be deductible against its final \"mainstream\" corporation tax bill. To the extent that the individual's tax on the dividend was less than the tax credit – for example, if his income was too low to pay tax (below £595 in 1973–1974) – he would be able to reclaim some or all of the £30 tax paid by the company. The set-off was only partial, since the company would pay 52% tax (small companies had lower rates, but still higher than the ACT rate), and thus the £70 received by the individual actually represented pre-tax profits of £145.83. Accordingly, only part of the double taxation was relieved.\n\nACT was not payable on dividends from one UK company to another (unless the payor company elected to pay it). Also, the recipient company was not taxed on that dividend receipt, except for dealers in shares and life assurance companies in respect of some of their profits. As the payor company would have suffered tax on the payments it made, the company that received the dividend also received a credit that it could use to reduce the amount of ACT it itself paid, or, in certain cases, apply to have the tax credit repaid to them.\nThe level of ACT was linked to the basic rate of income tax between 1973 and 1993. The March 1993 Budget of Norman Lamont cut the ACT rate and tax credit to 22.5% from April 1993, and 20% from April 1994. These changes were accompanied with a cut of income tax on dividends to 20%, while the basic rate of income tax remained at 25%. Persons liable for tax were lightly affected by the change, because income tax liability was still balanced by the tax credit received, although higher rate tax payers paid an additional 25% tax on the amount of the dividend actually received (net), as against 20% before the change.\n\nThe change had bigger effects on pensions and non-taxpayers. A pension fund receiving a £1.2 m dividend income prior to the change would have been able to reclaim £400,000 in tax, giving a total income of £1.6 m. After the change, only £300,000 was reclaimable, reducing income to £1.5 m, a fall of 6.25%.\n\nGordon Brown's summer Budget of 1997 ended the ability of pension funds and other tax-exempt companies to reclaim tax credits with immediate effect, and for individuals from April 1999. This tax change has been blamed for the poor state of British pension provision, while usually ignoring the more significant effect of the dot-com shareprice crash of 2000 onwards when the FTSE-100 lost half its value to fall from 6930 at the beginning of 2000 to just 3490 by March 2003. Despite this, critics such as Member of Parliament Frank Field described it as a \"hammer blow\" and the \"Sunday Times\" described it as a swindle, with the hypothetical £1.5 m income described above falling to £1.2 m, a fall in income of 20%, because no tax would be reclaimable.\n\nFrom 6 April 1999 ACT was abolished, and the tax credit on dividends was reduced to 10%. There was a matching reduction in the basic income tax rate on dividends to 10%, while a new higher-rate of 32.5% was introduced which led to an overall effective 25% tax rate for higher rate taxpayers on dividends (after setting this \"notional\" tax credit against the tax liability).While non-taxpayers were no longer able to claim this amount from the treasury (as opposed to taxpayers who could deduct it from their tax bill), the 20% ACT (which would have previously been deducted from the dividend before payment) was no longer levied.\n\nThe abolition of ACT was actually one of the biggest tax grabs ever by a Chancellor, as pension companies could no longer recover the tax paid on dividends (along with pensioners and other reliant on the income). This now costs over £10bn a year and was one of the factors that lead to the death of the final salary pension scheme. (ref:https://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/personalfinance/pensions/10798785/True-cost-of-Labours-pension-tax-raid-and-others-since-Seventies.html). It is one of the biggest tax grabs ever, sold as 'the abolition of a tax'.\n\nACT that had been incurred prior to 1999 could still be set off against a company's tax liability, provided it would have been able to set it off under the old imputation system. In order to keep the stream of payments associated with advance corporation tax payment, 'large' companies (comprising the majority of corporation tax receipts) were subjected to a quarterly instalments scheme for tax payment.\n\nOn its introduction in 1965, corporation tax was charged at 40%, rising to 45% in the 1969 Budget. The rate then fell to 42.5% in the second Budget of 1970 and 40% in 1971. In 1973, alongside the introduction of advance corporation tax (ACT), Conservative chancellor Anthony Barber created a main rate of 52%, together with a smaller companies' rate of 42%. This apparent increase was negated by the fact that under the ACT scheme, dividends were no longer subject to income tax.\n\nThe 1979 Conservative Budget of Geoffrey Howe cut the small companies' rate to 40%, followed by a further cut in the 1982 Budget to 38%. The Budgets of 1983–1988 saw sharp cuts in both main and small companies' rates, falling to 35% and 25% respectively. Budgets between 1988 and 2001 brought further falls to a 30% main rate and 19% small companies' rates. From April 1983 to March 1997 the small companies' rate was pegged to the basic rate of income tax. During the 1980s there was briefly a higher rate of tax imposed for capital profits.\n\nChancellor Gordon Brown's 1999 Budget introduced a 10% starting rate for profits from £0 to £10,000, effective from April 2000. Marginal relief applied meaning companies with profits of between £10,000 and £50,000 paid a rate between the starting rate and the small companies' rate (19% in 2000).\n\nThe 2002 Budget cut the starting rate to zero, with marginal relief applying in the same way. This caused a significant increase in the number of companies being incorporated, as businesses that had operated as self-employed, paying income tax on profits from just over £5,000, were attracted to the corporation tax rate of 0% on income up to £10,000. Previously self-employed individuals could now distribute profits as dividend payments rather than salaries. For companies with profits under £50,000 the corporation tax rate varied between 0% and 19%. Because dividend payments come with a basic rate tax credit, provided the recipient did not earn more than the basic rate allowance, no further tax would be paid. The number of new companies being formed in 2002–2003 reached 325,900, an increase of 45% on 2001–2002.\n\nThe fact that individuals operating in this manner could potentially pay no tax at all was felt by the government to be unfair tax avoidance, and the 2004 Budget introduced a Non-Corporate Distribution Rate. This ensured that where a company paid below the small companies' rate (19% in 2004), dividend payments made to non-corporates (for example, individuals, trusts and personal representatives of deceased persons) would be subject to additional corporation tax, bringing the corporation tax paid up to 19%. For example, a company making £10,000 profit, and making a £6,000 dividend distribution to an individual and £4,000 to another company would pay 19% corporation tax on the £6,000. Although this measure substantially reduced the number of small businesses incorporating, the Chancellor in the 2006 Budget said tax avoidance by small businesses through incorporation was still a major issue, and scrapped the starting rate entirely.\n\nThe starting point for computing taxable profits is profits before tax (except for a life assurance company). The rules for calculating corporation tax generally ran in parallel with income tax until 1993, when the first statutory rule to move profit reporting into line with generally accepted accounting practice was introduced, although the courts were already moving towards requiring trading profits to be computed using general accountancy rules.\n\nFinance Act 1993 introduced rules to make tax on exchange gains and losses mimic their treatment in a company's financial statements in most instances. Finance Act 1994 saw similar rules for financial instruments, and in Finance Act 1996 the treatment of most loan relationships was also brought into line with the accounting treatment. Finance Act 1997 saw something similar with rental premiums. A year later, Finance Act 1998 went even further, making it clear that taxable trading profits (apart from those accruing to a Lloyd's corporate name or to a life assurance company) and profits from a rental business are equal to profits calculated under generally accepted accounting practice (\"GAAP\") unless there is a specific statutory or case law rule to the contrary. This was followed up by Finance Act 2004, which provided that where a company with investment business could make deductions for management expenses, they were calculated by reference to figures in the financial statements.\n\nFrom 2005, all European Union listed companies have to prepare their financial statements using the \"International Financial Reporting Standards\" (\"IFRS\"), as modified by the EU. Other UK companies may choose to adopt IFRS. Corporation tax law is changing so that, in the future, IFRS accounting profits are largely respected. The exception is for certain financial instruments and certain other measures to prevent tax arbitrage between companies applying IFRS and companies applying UK GAAP.\n\nTax avoidance is the legitimate reduction of tax through tax planning and/or usage of legal provisions. Unlike most other countries, most UK tax professionals are accountants rather than lawyers by training.\n\nUntil 2013, the UK had no general anti-avoidance rule (\"GAAR\") for corporation tax. However, it inherited an anti-avoidance rule from income tax relating to transactions in securities, and since then has had various \"mini-GAARs\" added to it. The best known \"mini-GAAR\" prevents a deduction for interest paid when the loan to which it relates is made for an \"unallowable purpose\". In 2013, the government introduced a General Anti-Avoidance Rule to manage the risk of tax avoidance.\n\nFinance Act 2004 introduced disclosure rules requiring promoters of certain tax avoidance schemes that are financing- or employment-related to disclose the scheme. Taxpayers who use these schemes must also disclose their use when they submit their tax returns. This is the first provision of its kind in the UK, and Finance Act 2005 has shown a number of tax avoidance schemes being blocked earlier than would have been expected prior to the disclosure rules.\n\nIn the early twenty-first century the government sought to raise more revenues from corporation tax. In 2002 it introduced a separate 10% supplementary charge on profits from oil and gas extraction businesses, and Finance Act 2005 contained measures to accelerate when oil and gas extraction business have to pay tax. Instead of paying their tax in four equal instalments in the seventh, tenth, thirteenth and sixteenth month after the accounting period starts, they will be required to consolidate their third and fourth payments and pay them in the thirteenth month, creating a cash flow advantage for the government.Finance (No.2) Act 2005 continued measures specifically relating to life assurance companies. When originally announced (as Finance (No.3) Bill 2005) Legal & General told the Stock Exchange that £300 m had been wiped off its value, and Aviva (Norwich Union) announced that the tax changes would cost its policy holders £150 m.\n\nPowers to collect corporation tax must be passed annually by parliament, otherwise there is no authority to collect it. The charge for the financial year (beginning 1 April each year) is imposed by successive finance acts. The tax is charged in respect of the company's accounting period, which is normally the 12-month period for which the company prepares its accounts. Corporation tax is administered by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC).\n\nCorporation tax is levied on the net profits of a company. Except for certain life assurance companies, it is borne by the company as a direct tax.\n\nUp until 1999 no corporation tax was due unless HMRC raised an assessment on a company. Companies were, however, obliged to report certain details to HMRC so that the right amount could be assessed. This changed for accounting periods ending on or after 1 July 1999, when self-assessment was introduced. Self-assessment means that companies are required to assess themselves \"and take full responsibility for that assessment\". If the self-assessment is wrong through negligence or recklessness, the company can be liable to penalties.\nThe self-assessment tax return needs to be delivered to HMRC 12 months after the end of the period of account in which the accounting period falls (although the tax must be paid before this date). If a company fails to submit a return by then, it is liable to penalties. HMRC may then issue a determination of the tax payable, which cannot be appealed – however, in practice they wait until a further six months have elapsed. Also, the most common claims and elections that may be made by a company have to be part of its tax return, with a time limit of two years after the end of the accounting period. This means that a company submitting its return more than one year late suffers not only from the late filing penalties, but also from the inability to make these claims and elections.\n\nFrom 2004 there has been a requirement for new companies to notify HM Revenue & Customs of their formation, although HMRC receives notifications of new company registrations from Companies House. Companies will then receive an annual notice CT603, approximately 1–2 months after the end of the company's financial period, notifying it to complete an annual return. This must also include the company's annual accounts, and possibly other documents, such as auditors' reports, that are required for certain companies.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the \"source rule\" applies. This means that something is taxed only if there is a specific provision bringing it within the charge to tax. Accordingly, profits are only charged to corporation tax if they fall within one of the following, and are not otherwise exempted by an explicit provision of the Taxes Acts:\n\nNotes:\n\nSchedule D is itself divided into a number of cases:\n\nNotes:\n\nStrictly speaking, Corporation Tax Act 2010 replaces the historic terminology \"Schedule A\", \"Schedule D Case I\" etc. with more descriptive terms but this does not affect the substantive application of the schedular system so that, for example, different rules apply for utilising tax losses depending upon the nature of the income under which the losses arises.\n\nMost direct expenses are deductible when calculating taxable income and chargeable gains. Notable exceptions include any costs of entertaining clients. Companies with investment business may deduct certain indirect expenses known as \"expenses of management\" when calculating their taxable profits. A similar relief is available for expenses of a life assurance company taxed on the I minus E basis which relate to the company's basic life assurance and general annuity business. Donations made to charities are also normally deducted in calculating taxable income if made under Gift Aid.\n\nThe 2007 Budget announced a main rate cut from 30% to 28%, effective from April 2008. At the same time, the small companies' rate was increased from 19% to 20% from April 2007, 21% in April 2008, to stop \"individuals artificially incorporating as small companies to avoid paying their due share of tax, a practice if left unaddressed would cost the rest of the taxpaying population billions of pounds\".\n\nThe rate of corporation tax is determined by the financial year, which runs from 1 April to the following 31 March. Financial year FY17 started on 1 April 2017 and ends on 31 March 2018. Where a company's accounting period straddles a financial year in which the corporation tax rate has changed, the company's profits for that period are split. For example, a company paying small companies' rate with its accounting period running from 1 January to 31 December, and making £100,000 of profit in 2007, would be deemed to have made 90/365*£100,000 = £24,657.53 in FY06 (there are 90 days between 1 January and 31 March), and 275/365*£100,000=£75,34.47 in FY07, and would pay 19% on the FY06 portion, and 20% on the FY07 portion.\n\nFrom 1 April 2010 HM Revenue & Customs updated their terminology and the former Small Companies' Rate is now called Small Profits Rate.\n\nNotes:\n\nMost companies are required to pay tax nine months and a day after the end of an accounting period. Larger companies are required to pay quarterly instalments, in the seventh, tenth, thirteenth and sixteenth months after a full accounting period starts. These times are modified where an accounting period lasts for less than twelve months. From 2005 onwards, for tax payable on oil and gas extraction profits, the third and fourth quarterly instalments are merged, including the supplementary 10% charge.\n\nIn the financial year 2004–2005, approximately 39,000 companies paid corporation tax at the main rate. These 4.7% of active companies are responsible for 75% of all corporation tax receipts. Around 224,000 companies paid the small companies rate, with 34,000 benefiting from marginal relief. 264,000 were in the starting rate, with 269,000 benefiting from the lower band of marginal relief. The total revenue was £41.9bn from 831,885 companies. Only 23480 companies had a liability in excess of £100,000.\n\nHMRC has one year from the normal filing date, which is itself one year after the end of the period of account, to open an enquiry into the return. This period is extended if the return is filed late. The enquiry continues until all issues that HMRC wish to enquire about a return are dealt with. However, a company can appeal to the Commissioners of Income Tax to close an enquiry if they feel there is undue delay.\n\nIf either side disputes the amount of tax that is payable, they may appeal to either the General or Special Commissioners of Income Tax. Appeals on points of law may be made to the High Court (Court of Session in Scotland), then the Court of Appeal, and finally, with leave, to the House of Lords. However, decisions of fact are binding and can only be appealed if no reasonable Commissioner could have made that decision.\n\nOnce an enquiry is closed, or the time for opening an enquiry has passed, HMRC can only re-open a prior year if they become aware of an issue which they could not reasonably have known about at the time, or in instances of fraud or negligence. In fraud or negligence cases, they can re-open cases from up to 20 years ago.\n\nAfter an HMRC enquiry closes, or after final determination of an issue by the courts, the taxpayer has 30 days to amend their return, and make additional claims and elections, if appropriate, before the assessment becomes final and conclusive. If there is no enquiry, the assessment becomes final and conclusive once the period in which the Revenue may open an enquiry passes.\n\nThere is a risk of double taxation whenever a company receives income that has already been taxed. This could be dividend income, which will have been paid out of the post-tax profits of another company and which may have suffered withholding tax. Or it could be because the company itself has suffered foreign tax, perhaps because it conducts part of its trade through an overseas permanent establishment, or because it receives other types of foreign income.\n\nDouble taxation is avoided for UK dividends by exempting them from tax for most companies: only dealers in shares suffer tax on them. Where double taxation arises because of overseas tax suffered, relief is available either in the form of expense or credit relief. Expense relief allows the overseas tax to be treated as a deductible expense in the tax computation. Credit relief is given as a deduction from the UK tax liability, but is restricted to the amount of UK tax suffered on the foreign income. There is a system of onshore pooling, so that overseas tax suffered in high tax territories may be set off against taxable income arising from low tax territories. From 1 July 2009, new rules were introduced to exempt most non-UK dividends from corporation tax so these double taxation rules in respect of non-UK dividends will be of less common application in practice after that date.\n\nDetailed and separate rules apply to how all the different types of losses may be set off within the computations of a company. A detailed explanation of these can be found in: \"United Kingdom corporation tax loss relief\".\n\nThe UK does not permit tax consolidation, where companies in a group are treated as though they are a single entity for tax purposes. One of the main benefits of tax consolidation is that tax losses in one entity in a group are automatically relievable against the tax profits of another. Instead, the UK permits a form of loss relief called \"group relief\".\n\nWhere a company has losses arising in an accounting period (other than capital losses, or losses arising under Case V or VI of Schedule D) in excess of its other taxable profits for the period, it may surrender these losses to a group member with sufficient taxable profits in the same accounting period.\nThe company receiving the losses may offset them against their own taxable profits. Exceptions include that a company in the oil and gas extraction industry may not accept group relief against the profits arising on its oil and gas extraction business, and a life assurance company may only accept group relief against its profits chargeable to tax at the standard shareholder rate applicable to that company. Separate rules apply for dual resident companies.\n\nFull group relief is permitted between companies subject to UK corporation tax that are in the same 75% group, where companies have a common ultimate parent, and at least 75% of the shares in each company (other than the ultimate parent) are owned by other companies in the group. The companies making up a 75% group do not all need to be UK-resident or subject to UK corporation tax relief. An open-ended investment company cannot form part of a group.\n\nConsortium relief is permitted where a company subject to UK corporation tax is owned by a consortium of companies that each own at least 5% of the shares and together own at least 75% of the shares. A consortium company can only surrender or accept losses in proportion to how much of that company is owned by each consortium group.\n\nThis is an example computation involving a company that has one associate from which it receives £50,000 group relief.\nNotes:\n\nAlthough there are no European Union directives dealing with direct taxes, UK laws must comply with European legislation. In particular, legislation should not be discriminatory under the EC treaty.\n\nA number of cases where UK tax laws are believed to be discriminatory have been brought to the European Court of Justice, usually with respect to freedom of establishment and freedom of movement of capital. Key cases which have been decided include:\n\n\nAlso, the case of \"ICI v Colmer\" led to the UK amending its definition of a group, for group relief purposes. Previously, the definition required that all companies and intermediate parent companies in a group to be UK resident.\n\nThere are also a number of other cases making their way, slowly, up to the European Court. In particular:\n\n\nThere have been a number of proposals for corporation tax reform, although only a few have been enacted. In March 2001, the government published a technical note \"A Review of Small Business Taxation\", which considered simplification of corporation tax for small companies through the closer alignment of their profits for tax purposes with those reported in their accounts. In July of that year, the government also published a consultation document, \"Large Business Taxation: the Government's strategy and corporate tax reforms\". It set out the strategy for modernising corporate taxes and proposals for relief for capital gains on substantial shareholdings held by companies.\n\nIn August 2002, \"Reform of corporation tax – A consultation document\" was published, outlining initial proposals for the abolition of the Schedular system. This was followed up in August 2003 by \"Corporation tax reform – A consultation document\", which further discussed the possible abolition of the Schedular system, and also whether the capital allowances (tax depreciation) system should be abolished. It also made proposals that were ultimately enacted in Finance Act 2004. (The first two of these listed below were in response to threats to the UK tax base arising from recent European Court of Justice judgments.) The changes were to:\n\nIn December 2004, \"Corporation tax reform – a technical note\" was published. It outlined the government's decision to abolish the schedular system, replacing the numerous schedules and cases with two pools: a trading and letting pool; and an \"everything else\" pool. The Government had decided that capital allowances would remain, though there would be some reforms, mostly affecting the leasing industry.\n\nOther main reforms enacted, include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3550372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3550372", "title": "William Sanderson McCormick", "text": "William Sanderson McCormick\n\nWilliam Sanderson McCormick (November 2, 1815 – September 27, 1865) was an American businessman who developed the company that became the major producer of agricultural equipment in the 19th century. The business became the International Harvester corporation after his death.\nAlthough he died relatively young with most of the fame going to his brothers, his extended McCormick family continued to be influential in the politics and business of Chicago.\n\nWilliam Sanderson McCormick was born November 2, 1815 on the family estate known as Walnut Grove, in Virginia.\nHis father was Robert McCormick (1780–1846) and mother Mary Ann (Hall) McCormick. \nHe was educated in public schools and took an interest in business. When the family farm had financial problems in the panic of 1837, he took over its management and made it profitable again. When his father died in 1846, his older brother Cyrus McCormick and younger brother Leander J. McCormick left to start a factory to produce the mechanical reapers that had been developed on the farm, while he was left to take care of the estate.\nHe married Mary Ann Grigsby (1828–1878) on July 11, 1848, daughter of Virginia planter Reuben Grigsby of Hickory Hill plantation.\n\nIn 1850, William, his wife, and infant son moved to Chicago to join his brothers in the family business, first on a salary basis. The California Gold Rush had created a labor shortage, which was good for demand, but also caused turnover in the factory employees. William managed the day-to-day operations of the business while Cyrus was often traveling or pursuing patent infringement lawsuits. William tried to mediate between Cyrus (who claimed all the credit as \"inventor\") and his brother Leander, who was now in charge of technical aspects of product development.\nIn 1859 he negotiated a formal agreement giving him and Leander one fourth interest in the company, and renamed it \"C. H. McCormick & Brothers.\"\n\nThe onset of the American Civil War brought new demand, but stress from another labor shortage. McCormick bought real estate in downtown Chicago which proved to be a wise investment. The family was attacked in the press as being southern sympathizers. In fact, the family never adjusted to the brutal cold of winters in Chicago. Brother Cyrus worsened the conflict by funding conservative newspapers to battle the liberal major publishers that were tied to local politicians. Cyrus traveled to Europe in 1864 where he successfully promoted international sales.\nOutwardly McCormick was described as \"of a cheerful disposition, quick spoken, ... a most interesting and agreeable man\". However, he suffered from \"nervous dyspepsia\" and his mental state deteriorated. Various treatments for his mental illness such as bland diets or water cures proved ineffective. In April 1865 he stated simply to Cyrus \"I am extremely nervous\". He continued to manage the business until checking into the Illinois State Asylum in Jacksonville, Illinois in August 1865. He died there on September 27, 1865. His widow cashed in her share of the business, moved back to Virginia, and left the children with their uncles in Chicago. He was buried in Graceland Cemetery, and replaced as general manager by Charles A. Spring, Jr.\n\nThe McCormicks had five children:\n"}
{"id": "22435531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22435531", "title": "Willingness to accept", "text": "Willingness to accept\n\nIn economics, willingness to accept (WTA) is the minimum amount of money that а person is willing to accept to abandon a good or to put up with something negative, such as pollution. It is equivalent to the minimum monetary amount required for sale of a good or acquisition of something undesirable to be accepted by an individual. Conversely, willingness to pay (WTP) is the maximum amount an individual is willing to sacrifice to procure a good or avoid something undesirable. The price of any goods transaction will thus be any point between a buyer's willingness to pay and a seller's willingness to accept. The net difference between WTP and WTA is the social surplus created by the trading of goods.\n\nSeveral methods have been developed to measure consumer willingness to pay or accept payment. These methods can be differentiated whether they measure consumers' hypothetical or actual willingness to pay or accept and whether they measure consumer willingness to pay or accept directly or indirectly.\n\nChoice modelling techniques may be used to estimate the value of the WTP or WTA through a choice experiment.\n\nUnlike WTP, WTA is not constrained by an individual's wealth. For example, the willingness to pay to stop the ending of one's own life can only be as high as one's wealth, while the willingness to accept compensation to accept the loss of one's life would be an extremely high number (or maybe infinite, meaning that there would be no finite acceptable payment amount).\n\nLet \"u\"(\"w\", \"x\") be an individual's utility function, where \"w\" is the person's wealth and \"x\" is a dummy variable that takes the value 1 in the presence of an undesired feature and takes the value 0 in the absence of that feature. The utility function is assumed to be increasing in wealth and decreasing in \"x\". Also, define \"w\" as the person's initial wealth. Then the \"willingness to accept\" is defined by\n\nThat is, the willingness to accept payment in order to put up with the adverse change equates the pre-change utility (on the right side) with the post-change utility including compensation.\n\nIn contrast, the \"willingness to pay\" is defined by\n\nThat is, the willingness to pay to avoid the adverse change equates the post-change utility, diminished by the presence of the adverse change (on the right side), with utility without the adverse change but with payment having been made to avoid it.\n\nThe concept extends readily to a context of uncertain outcomes, in which case the utility function above is replaced by the expected value of a von Neumann-Morgenstern utility function.\n\nThe standard assumptions of economic theory imply that when income effects are small, the gap between WTP and WTA should be negligible. Thus indifference curves are drawn without reference to current endowments. This leads to the wide acceptance of the \"Coase theorem\" assertion that, subject to income effects, the allocation of resources will be independent of the assignment of property rights when costless trades are possible. This is to say, the allocation of property rights does not influence the way externalities are internalized by the market. However, many experiments, such as that by Daniel Kahneman, Jack L. Knetsch and Richard Thaler showed that measures of WTA greatly exceed measures of WTP. Another well-known example was documented by Ziv Carmon and Dan Ariely, who found that willingness to accept for tickets to a major basketball game was more than 10 times larger than the willingness to pay. One explanation is that the endowment effect makes people value a good or service more if they possess it.\n\nHowever, Plott and Zeiler argue that \"...observed gaps [between WTA and WTP] are symptomatic of subjects' misconceptions about the nature of the experimental task\" and that \"the differences reported in the literature reflect differences in experimental controls for misconceptions as opposed to differences in the nature of the commodity.\"\n\nWTP and WTA are important factors for public policy. Many economic decisions are based upon the implicit assignment of property rights. When looking at a lake which is being polluted by a nearby factory, the WTA and WTP for treatment of an effluent treatment plant may have different consequences based upon how property rights are politically assigned. If lakeside residents have no property right to an effluent-free lake, then their willingness to pay to treat the lake's water supply would be considered. Conversely, if the lakeside residents are found to have a property right to a clean lake, then their willingness to accept compensation for a polluted lake would be considered.\n\n"}
{"id": "23253806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23253806", "title": "Women in Housing and Finance", "text": "Women in Housing and Finance\n\nWomen in Housing and Finance (WHF) is a membership organization of professionals in the area of housing and finance located in the greater metropolitan area of New York City. Founded in 1981, WHF promotes and supports the professional growth of women in housing, finance and development and provides a vehicle through which members share knowledge and experience.\n\nWHF Founder Cynthia Lewis was living in Washington, DC, working at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), during the Carter years, a very heady time for women. Many were appointed to high level jobs in the Administration. The Washington Women's Network held meetings in the Grand Ballroom of the Washington Hilton and hundreds of “power women,” and some not-so-powerful, believed that a new era had begun for women. HUD had its share with Secretary Pat Harris and Assistant Secretary Donna Shalala.\n\nLewis was invited to join a new group called \"Women in Housing and Finance\", composed of women from government agencies, Capitol Hill staff, and local law firms. She recently had been put in charge of a regulatory program and was able to make the contacts she needed through the group.\n\nLate in 1979, Lewis came back to New York to work at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation(FDIC) and she felt very isolated. With her responsibility for enforcement of the Community Investment Act, Lewis needed to meet people in the field. So she started to talk to women she met about the need for an “old girls’ network.” Lewis finally realized that it never would happen unless she did something herself. So Lewis started recruiting.\n\nConnie Gibson, from the New Jersey Mortgage Finance Agency (NJMFA), spoke at a conference Lewis attended at Citibank. Lewis asked her if she would be interested in a women’s networking group; she was. Lewis had met Anita Miller when, as Acting Chair of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB), she spoke at WHF Washington. She was back in New York at the Ford Foundation and thought it would be a good idea. Lewis also talked to Fran Levenson (Goldome Bank), Harriette Silverberg (Metlife), Kathy Wylde (Anchor Savings Bank), Lois Kleinerman (New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal (DHCR)), Beverly Wettenstein (Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB)), Carla Lerman (Bergen County Housing Authority), Jean Lerman (New York City Housing Preservation and Development (HPD)), and Kay Bergin (Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation).\n\nThey all got together in Lewis’s living room in the fall of 1980. They decided that they should each call ten women and invite them to a luncheon meeting to discuss forming a new organization. About 50 women came, and it was clear that they were on our way. Lewis suggested that they affiliate with WHF Washington because it was an established group. That is how WHF got its name. Periodically, WHF discussed changing the name, but the Board of Directors always decides that, although WHF welcomes men members, it wants to keep its original identity.\n\nWHF began officially with a luncheon on January 16, 1981 at McGraw-Hill. Caryl Austrian, President of WHF Washington, and Anita Miller (then with the Ford Foundation) were the speakers. Beverly Wettenstein notified the media of the event.\n\nOn February 4, Cynthia Lewis and the other “founding mothers” — Kay Bergin, Jean Lerman, Harriette Silverberg, Connie Gibson, Dana Cahoon, Lois Kleinerman Bernstein, Beverly Wettenstein, Fran Levenson, and Kathy Wylde — met and formed a steering committee to draft a statement of purpose, by-laws, and membership criteria which required a “level of professionalism consistent with retaining active participation of high-level women.”\n\nThis task was completed by August. The first slate of candidates included President Cynthia Lewis, First Vice President Connie Gibson, Second Vice President Fran Levenson, Secretary Lois Bernstein, and Treasurer Mary Williams. They were elected unanimously in October, 1981, together with board members Kay Bergin, Martha Lamar, Carla Lerman, Jean Lerman, Anita Miller, Harriette Silverberg, Beverly Wettenstein, and Kathy Wylde. The members approved the By-laws and an annual budget of $5,000.\n\nWHF’s membership is a diversified group of accomplished individuals drawn from all aspects of housing and finance throughout New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Members are engaged in architecture, banking, law, development, construction, brokerage, investment banking, marketing and sales, municipal finance, accounting, property management, historic preservation and more. Members come from the private sector, from state, local and federal agencies, and from not-for-profit organizations and community groups.\n\nIn 1997, a core group of professionals launched a vibrant New Jersey chapter which presents programs of statewide interest. More recently, WHF added a Westchester/Connecticut chapter which has held several interesting and timely events.\n\nMembership has changed over the years. WHF also periodically discusses becoming more public and aggressively recruiting new members, but it seems that most members prefer keeping the group at roughly the same size. About 20% of membership changes each year, but it remains around 160-190. That’s manageable for meetings and or networking.\n\nWHF has been a central resource for women in the housing and finance industry throughout the New York area. Since its inception, as market cycles have come and gone, WHF has endeavored to present up to the minute information, networking opportunities and professional development for its members.\n\nPrograms are scheduled monthly during breakfast, lunch or early evening times. Speakers and panelists include leaders in their fields as well as key public policy makers. WHF also hosts professional development programs in small group settings. These are scheduled to meet the needs of members.\n\nPrograms are frequently planned in conjunction with other New York City groups with similar missions, including: Women in Transportation, Women in Real Estate, Women’s City Club, the Natural Resources Defense Council, Citizens Housing and Planning Council (CHPC), MOMA, Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy and The New-York Historical Society.\n\nRecent programs have included the following:\n\n\nSupplementing regular programming, WHF sponsors a series of festive seasonal events enhancing opportunities for members to meet and get to know each other in informal social settings. These events include a colorful autumn gathering to greet new members, a January holiday party, an adventurous behind the scenes springtime field trip that explores fascinating locales not often available to the general public and an exceptional summer dinner for WHF’s annual membership meeting to conclude the WHF year. Honored guests and speakers have included Elinor Guggenheimer, Alair Townsend, Carol Bellamy, Claire Shulman, Charles Schumer and New York City's Mayor Michael Bloomberg.\n\nTo further fulfill its mission to promote the professional development of its members, WHF maintains a job bank with an updated list of positions available in New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut.\n\nWHF is a member of The New York Women's Agenda.\n\n"}
