{"id": "17954836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17954836", "title": "1934 Montreux Fascist conference", "text": "1934 Montreux Fascist conference\n\nThe Fascist International Congress was a meeting held by deputies from a number of European Fascist organizations. The conference was held on 16–17 December 1934 in Montreux, Switzerland. The conference was organised and chaired by \"Comitati d'Azione per l'Universalità di Roma\" (CAUR), or the Action Committees for the Universality of Rome.\n\nCAUR was a network founded in 1933 by Benito Mussolini's Fascist Regime. CAUR's director was Eugenio Coselschi, and its stated goal was to act as a network for a \"Fascist International\" Major obstacles arose in the organisation's attempt to identify a \"universal fascism\" and the criteria that an organisation must fulfil in order to qualify as \"fascist\". Nevertheless, by April 1934 the network had identified \"fascist\" movements in 39 countries, including all European countries except Yugoslavia, as well as the United States, Canada, Australia, South Africa, five countries in Asia and six in Latin America. As different groups tried to obtain subsidies all manners of conflicts arose on issues such as racism, anti-Semitism, corporatism and state structure.\n\nThe first world conference of the CAUR convened at Montreux on 16 December. Participants from fascist organisations in 13 European countries attended, including Ion Moța of Romania's Iron Guard, Vidkun Quisling of Norway's Nasjonal Samling, George S. Mercouris of the Greek National Socialist Party, Ernesto Giménez Caballero of the Spanish Falange movement, Eoin O'Duffy of the Irish Blueshirts, Marcel Bucard of the French \"Mouvement Franciste\", representatives from Lithuania's Tautininkai, the Portuguese Acção Escolar Vanguarda (\"Vanguard School\" Action) and União Nacional of Salazar, were headed by António Eça de Queiroz (son of the famous writer, and future head of the Emissora Nacional, the National Radio Station of Portugal), as well as delegates from Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Greece, the Netherlands and Switzerland.\n\nNotable in their absence were any representatives from Nazi Germany. The conference in Montreux occurred only six months after the assassination of the Austrofascist Austrian chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss by Nazi agents and the resulting diplomatic crisis between Italy and Germany. Likewise, Mussolini did not allow any official representative of the Italian Fascist Party to attend the meeting, ostensibly in order to see what the conference could achieve before lending full official support. José Antonio Primo de Rivera, while allowing members of the Falange to participate, stated that the Falange as an organisation would not be represented, as the \"CAUR\" was \"not a Fascist movement\". Other notable absences included the Austrian Ernst Rudiger von Starhemberg and any representatives from the British Union of Fascists.\n\nFrom the outset, the conference was marred by serious conflicts between the participants. Coselschi, acting as President of the Conference, clashed with Quisling over the importance of Nazi Germany to international fascism. Moța, supported by the Danish and Swiss delegates, likewise created a rift by underlining the centrality of anti-Semitism to fascist movements, a move opposed by Coselschi and O'Duffy. The Romanian Iron Guard stressed the need for race to be an integral component of fascism.\n\nOn the matter of anti-Semitism, several compromise resolutions were adopted. These declared that \"the Jewish question cannot be converted into a universal campaign of hatred against the Jews\" while also stating, \"Considering that in many places certain groups of Jews are installed in conquered countries, exercising in an open and occult manner an influence injurious to the material and moral interests of the country which harbors them, constituting a sort of state within a state, profiting by all benefits and refusing all duties, considering that they have furnished and are inclined to furnish, elements conducive to international revolution which would be destructive to the idea of patriotism and Christian civilisation, the Conference denounces the nefarious action of these elements and is ready to combat them.\".\n\nThe delegates at the conference also unanimously declared their opposition to communist movements and the Third International.\n\nA second and final conference was held in Montreux in April 1935. José Antonio Primo de Rivera made a brief appearance at this conference, using the opportunity to express sympathies with the movement while stating that Spain was not ready to participate in any venture of international fascism because his movement was \"estrictamente nacional\" (strictly national).\n\nThe conference was not able to bridge the gulf between those participants who proposed achieving national integration by a corporative socio-economic policy and those who favored an appeal to race. Pretensions to \"universal fascism\" could not survive this rift, and the movement did not meet its goal of acting as a counterbalance to international communism.\n\nThe \"CAUR\" did not win official endorsement from the Italian Fascist Party or the Spanish Falange. It was unsuccessful either to present a commonly agreed definition as to what \"fascism\" was or to unite most major fascist parties into one international movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "10405749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10405749", "title": "Abdul Aziz (Pakistani cleric)", "text": "Abdul Aziz (Pakistani cleric)\n\nMawlānā Abdul Aziz Ghazi () is a Pakistani cleric and khateeb (sermon giver) in the central mosque of Islamabad known as Lal Masjid, which was the site of a siege in 2007 with the Pakistani army. Aziz was released from custody by the Pakistani supreme court in 2009 and acquitted in 2013. Besides being the Imam of Lal Masjid, Islamabad he is also the chancellor of Jamia Hafsa\n\nIn 2014, Aziz named a library at one of the mosque's seminaries after Osama Bin Laden\n\nAziz came to Islamabad as a six-year-old boy from his home town in Punjab, when his father was appointed khateeb of Lal Masjid in 1966. He grew up in Islamabad. Aziz is the son of Muhammad Abdullah, the first prayer leader of Lal Masjid, and elder brother of Abdul Rashid, who was killed in a government raid.\n\nAziz is descended from Sadwani clan of Mazari tribe in the town of Rojhan at the border of southern Punjab and Balochistan. Pakistan's military ruler, General Zia-ul-Haq, was said to be very close to Abdullah.\n\nAfter studying for few years in a public school, he was later sent to Karachi to study in a religious seminary. \nHe is a graduate of Jamia Uloom-ul-Islamia Banuri Town, a Madrassah in Karachi, where he studied the customary Dars-e-Nizami, which is taught at the most elementary level of religious education in Pakistan.\n\nAfter Graduating, The Government Appointed Him As Imam Of Islamabad's Mujaddiya Masjid In Sector F-8/2 , Where He Led Prayers Up Till (His Father) Maulana Abdullah Ghazi's Assassination in 1998\n\nAbdul Aziz served as officially designated prayer leader in Lal Masjid From 1998 until 2005 when he was dismissed from service (but never removed) after he issued a \"fatwa\" (religious decree) against the army officers who were fighting against the Taliban and their supporters in the tribal areas close to the Afghan border. In the fatwa he declared that none of the army officers who were killed in the fighting in tribal area was a martyr and religious sanctions were not available for their funeral. His fatwa irked the government and he was dismissed from service. But in fact, the government has not attempted to remove him from his post. A replacement cleric was appointed for Lal Masjid, but local Residents refused to pray behind anyone other than Aziz.\n\nHe closely followed the supreme leader of the Taliban, Mullah Omar, and typically resisted being photographed.\n\nTensions between the government and religious students led by Abdul Aziz had simmered over the demolition of mosques. However, Islamabad was shaken out of its political stupor by the female students and teachers of the seminary in the last week of March. They announced the launch of a \"moral drive\" against all \"immoral activities\" in the federal capital.\n\nHe also warned the government of attacks in the case of a violent police operation launched against the seminary. \"If the government fails to eradicate all these moral evils from the society within the specified period of one month the students of the seminary would themselves take actions against all the people involved in such activities,\" said Abdul Aziz while addressing Friday Prayer congregation at Lal Masjid.\n\nIn his speech the cleric declared drugs, music, movies, and photographs of women as moral evils.\n\nThe Lal Masjid brigade came to public notice when they kidnapped women (who they accused of being prostitutes) from Islamabad's residential areas and then later kidnapped several police officers. The brigade increased their activities and took to the crime of kidnapping Chinese workers from massage centres. This particular event created international pressure on Pakistan, especially from the Chinese government.\n\nOn 3 July 2007, the standoff with the government ended in bloody gun battles in which more than 1,000 Students were killed and scores wounded.\n\non 4 July 2007 at 8.05, Aziz was arrested while leaving the complex disguised in a burqa. , the reason for his cross-dressing escape was Latter Revealed To be that he was called 'by a senior official of an intelligence agency with whom he has been in touch for a long time' (Aziz admitted that he and his brother Ghazi had done this many times before when they were declared wanted by the government). Since this man could not enter into the mosque to meet him. He asked Maulana Aziz to come down to Aabpara police station, situated on a walking distance from the mosque and asked him to wear a burqa to avoid identification.\n\nAziz was released on 16 April 2009 by the Pakistani supreme court as he awaited trial on Alleged charges of murder, incitement, and kidnapping. He was greeted by throngs of supporters.\n\nSince 2001, 27 different cases have been filed unsuccessfully against him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1178307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178307", "title": "Aboriginal People's Party", "text": "Aboriginal People's Party\n\nThe Aboriginal People's Party was a political party in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan that nominated 10 candidates in the 1982 elections for the Legislative Assembly of Saskatchewan.\n\nThe aim of the party was to promote the interests of First Nations and Métis people in the province.\n\nThe party fared poorly: it collected only 1,156 votes, 0.22% of the provincial total. It won no seats in the legislature, and did not nominate candidates in any subsequent election.\n\n"}
{"id": "25706334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25706334", "title": "Albanian Lictor Youth", "text": "Albanian Lictor Youth\n\nAlbanian Lictor Youth (, , abbreviated G.L.A.) was a youth organization, the youth wing of the Albanian Fascist Party. The Albanian Youth of the Lictor was one of the associated organizations of the Albanian Fascist Party, as stipulated in its statute, which was formulated in a decree of the Italian vicegerent issued on June 2, 1939.\n\nGiovanni Giro, an Italian fascist official, had been sent to Albania to organize a fascist youth movement there prior to the Italian annexation of the country. However, these efforts had been largely unsuccessful. On the contrary, his activities created various diplomatic incidents.\n\nFollowing the Italian invasion of Albania in April 1939, Achille Starace, a leading fascist organizer, was sent to Albania to set up the Albanian Fascist Party and the Albanian Fascist Youth. ENGA, an Albanian youth organization modelled after the Italian \"Opera Nazionale Balilla\" organization merged into GLA. After the founding of the GLA, Giro remained the main organizer of the movement. The GLA was modelled after the Italian Youth of the Lictor, and was politically under the command of its Italian counterpart. The uniforms of GLA were similar to those used in Italy. Girls were organized in Female Youth of the Lictor (\"Gioventù Femminile del Littorio\") and boys under fourteen years of age were organized in \"Balilla\" groups. Parallel to the Youth of the Lictor there were also groups of university fascists, but these groups were rather marginal as Albania had few universities.\n\nThe Italian authorities built a marble palace for the GLA in Tirana, in the same complex as the \"Casa del Fascio\", one of a series of lavish façades that popped up in the city during Italian rule.\n\nThe organization's press organ was \"Liktori\" (Lictor) newspaper, with Ligor Buzi as editor.\n\nRamiz Alia, who served as head of state of Albania in 1985-1992, had been a member of the fascist youth movement, but later left it and in 1943 he joined the Communist resistance movement.\n"}
{"id": "51877652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51877652", "title": "Anchored Instruction", "text": "Anchored Instruction\n\nAnchored Instruction is a technology centered learning approach, which falls under the social constructionism paradigm. It is a form of situated learning that emphasizes problem-solving within an integrated learning context, which can be examined from multiple perspectives. \"In other words, the learning is contextualized to provide students with realistic roles that serve to enhance the learning process\", (Fried, Zannini, Wheeler, Lee, & Cortez, 2005). During teaching, activities are designed or tied around an \"anchor\", such as an adventure or story, with a problem at the end, that needs to be resolved. The connection made between the content and the authentic context is referred to as \"anchoring\". These models typically embed all the information needed for the problem to be solved, such data and hints. Anchored instruction is akin to Problem-based learning (P.B.L.) with the exception of its open-endedness.\n\nThe seven principles outlined, are used to govern the design of anchored instruction (Biswas, Goldman, & Bransford, 1997).\n\n\nAnchored instruction highlights the use of Instructional technology. Teachers are moved from the source of information to a coach. It is widely used at primary levels, and is applied to Mathematics, Reading and Language skills.\n\nAnchored instruction, promotes active learning, by motivating and challenging learners. The story or anchor contains embedded data along with other extraneous information; it is the learner's responsibility to decipher, extract and organize pertinent information. The problem that needs to be solved, often requires the learner to take multiple steps, by generating a man smaller questions, that ought to support and guide their thinking. Small groups of learners are the appropriate size for this type of instruction. Members of the group often provide multiple opinions, thus having multiple solutions to the problem. Students are responsible for establishing their learning goals\n\nThe facilitators are responsible for providing the anchor, the problem statement and embedded data in the story. Anchored stories also contain hints that act as instructional scaffolding to resolve problems. Scaffolding provides a temporary framework to support learning. The facilitator coaches and guides the learners through the learning process. They assist students to establish their own learning goals. And accept that they are no longer the major source of knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "11999134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11999134", "title": "Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials-International", "text": "Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials-International\n\nAssociation of Public-Safety Communications Officials-International (APCO) was founded in 1935. It is the world’s oldest and largest organization of public safety communications professionals and supports the largest U.S. membership base of any public safety association. APCO’s mission is to be a leader in providing public safety communications expertise, professional development, technical assistance, advocacy and outreach to benefit its members and the public.\n\nAPCO serves the government functions that provide public safety communications services in the areas of law enforcement, forestry, conservation, fire, highway maintenance, emergency rescue and medical services, emergency management, and other activities supported or endorsed by federal, state, local and tribal governments. The primary purposes of the association are to: \n\nAPCO offers different levels of membership in three categories: \nAPCO International hosts several events and conferences each year.\n\nThe Annual Conference and Expo, held every year beginning in 1935, brings together public safety telecommunicators, vendors, instructors and industry leaders. More than 5,000 people attended APCO 2014 in New Orleans, LA.\n\nThe Emerging Technology Forum, offered twice a year, is a two-day event for public safety communications professionals who want an overview of technologies that are on the horizon.\n\nThe Public Safety Broadband Summit, held annually, provides a forum for technology experts, policy leaders, industry partners, wireless service providers, and public safety professionals to discuss timely issues affecting the deployment of the FirstNet nationwide public safety broadband network.\n\nThe Public Safety Communications Leadership in Policy Awards Dinner annually recognizes the leaders in public safety communications who have continued to advocate for the industry.\n\nNational Public Safety Telecommunicators Week, the second full week in April, honors the telecommunications personnel in the public safety community.\n\nAPCO International is an American National Standards Institute (ANSI)-accredited Standards Developer (ASD). APCO’s 16 active standards include operational and training standards for telecommunicators, supervisors, instructors, training officers, communications center managers and directors, as well as technical standards in areas such as alarm systems and common incident types for data exchange.\n\nAPCO Institute offers onsite training, online education, and continuing education from front-line basic training to supervisory courses, as well as operational support products, such as EMD guide cards and the 9-1-1 Adviser™ software.\n\nThe APCO Agency Training Program Certification is a formal mechanism for public safety agencies to certify their training programs as meeting APCO ANS 3.103.1-2010: Minimum Training Standards for Public Safety Telecommunicators, which specifies the minimum training requirements of calltakers and dispatchers of law enforcement, fire services, and emergency medical services assigned to the public safety telecommunicator function.\n\nThe APCO Registered Public-Safety Leader Program is a 12-month online program, available to APCO members, leading to the professional designation of Registered Public-Safety Leader (RPL). Students are taught to communicate with authority, build and manage high-performance teams, break down barriers to solid interpersonal negotiations, enhance team performance and lead with confidence and integrity.\n\nThe APCO Certified Public-Safety Executive Program consists of two 12-week online courses and one nine-day capstone course at APCO headquarters in Daytona Beach, Florida, open to graduates of the RPL program or those with an associate degree who aspire to lead public-safety organizations. Graduates of the program earn the professional designation of Certified Public-Safety Executive (CPE).\n\nAFC, APCO's spectrum management arm, provides comprehensive radio frequency management for public safety agencies, from frequency coordination to licensing services and management, to engineering tools and interference complaints.\n\nThe Project RETAINS Toolkit & Effective Practices Guide assists communications center managers, HR personnel, police and fire chiefs, and others in addressing the challenges of hiring and retaining qualified personnel.\n\nAPCO’s Government Relations Office (GRO) establishes and maintains relationships with Congress, federal agencies, the Administration, industry leaders, and national public safety and governmental organizations to advocate for the policies, regulations, and legislation of most importance to APCO members.\n\nAppComm is an online collection of applications related to public safety and emergency response, for use by the general public and first responders. Public safety professionals, the general public, and app developers can discuss and rate apps, identify unmet needs, and submit ideas for apps they’d like to see built.\n\nNJTI Telecommunicator Emergency Response Taskforce (TERT) is a partnership between APCO and NENA that provides assistance to individual states in developing programs that would lead to the establishment of trained teams of individuals who can be mobilized quickly and deployed to assist communications centers during disasters.\n\nPublic Safety Communications magazine is an official APCO publication for emergency communications center personnel that includes features on comm center operations, regulatory issues, and technical topics; analysis of new procedures, technology and products; association and industry news; and commentary.\n\nIn addition, APCO’s Comm Center and 9-1-1 Services department provides resources and research on a wide array of topics, including 9-1-1 public outreach, advanced automatic crash notification (AACN) & vehicular emergency data set (VEDS), automated secure alarm protocol (ASAP), computer assisted dispatch (CAD), human resources for professional communications, next generation communications systems, FirstNet, wireless location accuracy and more.\n\nThe Public Safety Foundation of America (PSFA), a 501(c)(3) charitable organization, was established in January 2002 by the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials International (APCO). The PSFA’s objective is to provide critical funding and technical support to public safety answering points (PSAPs) and local emergency response officials.\n\nAPCO has developed several industry standards that bear its name. For example, APCO-16, APCO-25, and the APCO phonetic alphabet are all widely used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83622", "title": "Boston Public Library", "text": "Boston Public Library\n\nThe Boston Public Library is a municipal public library system in Boston, Massachusetts, United States, founded in 1848. The Boston Public Library is also the Library for the Commonwealth (formerly \"library of last recourse\") of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; all adult residents of the commonwealth are entitled to borrowing and research privileges, and the library receives state funding. The Boston Public Library contains approximately 24 million volumes, and electronic resources, making it the third-largest public library in the United States behind only the Library of Congress and the New York Public Library. In fiscal year 2014, the library held over 10,000 programs, all free to the public, and lent 3.7 million materials.\n\nAccording to its website, the Boston Public Library has a collection of over 23.7 million items, which makes it one of the largest municipal public library systems in the United States. The vast majority of the collection – over 22.7 million volumes — is held in the Central Branch research stacks. Between July 2012 and June 2013, the annual circulation of the BPL was 3.69 million. Because of the strength and importance of its research collection, the Boston Public Library is a member of the Association of Research Libraries (ARL), a not-for-profit organization comprising the research libraries of North America. The New York Public Library is the only other public library that is a member of the ARL. The library has established collections of distinction, based on the collection's depth and breadth, including subjects such as Boston history, the Civil War, Irish History, etc. In addition, the library is both a federal and state depository of government documents.\n\nIncluded in the BPL's research collection are more than 1.7 million rare books and manuscripts. It possesses wide-ranging and important holdings, including medieval manuscripts and incunabula, early editions of William Shakespeare (among which are a number of Shakespeare quartos and the First Folio), the George Ticknor collection of Spanish literature, a major collection of Daniel Defoe, records of colonial Boston, the personal 3,800 volume library of John Adams, the mathematical and astronomical library of Nathaniel Bowditch, important manuscript archives on abolitionism, including the papers of William Lloyd Garrison, and a major collection of materials on the Sacco and Vanzetti case. There are large collections of prints, photographs, postcards, and maps. The library, for example, holds one of the major collections of watercolors and drawings by Thomas Rowlandson. The library has a special strength in music, and holds the archives of the Handel and Haydn Society, scores from the estate of Serge Koussevitzky, and the papers of and grand piano belonging to the important American composer Walter Piston.\n\nFor all these reasons, the historian David McCullough has described the Boston Public Library as one of the five most important libraries in America, the others being the Library of Congress, the New York Public Library, and the university libraries of Harvard and Yale.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, several people were instrumental in the establishment of the Boston Public Library. George Ticknor, a Harvard professor and trustee of the Boston Athenaeum, raised the possibility of establishing a public library in Boston beginning as early as 1826. At the time, Ticknor could not generate enough interest.\n\nIn 1839, Alexandre Vattemare, a Frenchman, suggested that all of Boston's libraries combine themselves into one institution for the benefit of the public. The idea was presented to many Boston libraries, however, most were uninterested in the idea. At Vattemare's urging, Paris sent gifts of books in 1843 and 1847 to assist in establishing a unified public library. Vattemare made yet another gift of books in 1849.\n\nJosiah Quincy, Jr. anonymously donated $5,000 to begin the funding of a new library. Quincy made the donation while he was mayor of Boston. Indirectly, John Jacob Astor also influenced the establishment of a public library in Boston. At the time of his death, Astor bequeathed $400,000 to New York to establish a public library there. Because of the cultural and economic rivalry between Boston and New York, this bequest prompted more discussion of establishing a public library in Boston. In 1848, a statute of the Great and General Court of Massachusetts enabled the creation of the library. The library was officially established in Boston by a city ordinance in 1852. Mayor Benjamin Seaver recommended to the city council that a librarian be appointed. In May 1852 the city council adopted the recommendations of the mayor and Edward Capen was chosen to become Boston Public Library's first librarian.\n\nEager to support the library, Edward Everett collected documents from both houses of Congress, bound them at his own expense, and offered this collection to help establish the new library. At the time of Everett's donation, George Ticknor became involved in the active planning for the new library. In 1852, financier Joshua Bates gave a gift of $50,000 to establish a library in Boston. After Bates' gift was received, Ticknor made lists of what books to purchase. He traveled extensively to purchase books for the library, visit other libraries, and set up book agencies.\n\nTo house the collection, a former schoolhouse located on Mason Street was selected as the library's first home. On March 20, 1854, the Reading Room of the Boston Public Library officially opened to the public. The circulation department opened on May 2, 1854.\nThe opening day collection of 16,000 volumes fit in the Mason Street building, but it quickly became obvious that its quarters were inadequate. So in December 1854, the library's commissioners authorized the library to move to a new building on Boylston Street. Designed by Charles Kirk Kirby to hold 240,000 volumes, the imposing Italianate edifice opened in 1858. But eventually the library outgrew that building as well; in 1878, an examining committee recommended replacing it with a new one at another location.\n\nBy 1880, the Massachusetts legislature authorized construction of an even grander library building. A site selected was in Back Bay on Copley Square – the prominent corner of Boylston Street and Dartmouth Street, opposite Richardson's Trinity Church and near the first Boston Museum of Fine Arts. After several years of debate over the selection of the architects and architectural style for the new library, in 1887 the prestigious New York firm of McKim, Mead, and White was chosen to design the new library. In 1888, Charles Follen McKim proposed a design based on the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris, in a Renaissance style which met approval from the trustees of the library, and construction commenced. The vast new reading room was called Bates Hall.\n\nIn 1870, the library opened the East Boston branch, the first branch library in America. With the aim of increasing its reach throughout the city, the library opened 21 more branches in Boston neighborhoods between 1872 and 1900.\n\nIn 1972, the Johnson building opened at the central Copley Square location, adjacent to the McKim building. The addition was designed by Philip Johnson. In 1986, the National Park Service named the McKim building a National Historic Landmark.\n\n, the Library has had staffing and funding levels for conservation below that of its peers: the BPL's staff of two full-time conservators is significantly less than the New York Public Library's thirty-five. Many colonial records and John Adams manuscripts are brittle, decaying, and so in need of attention that the Library's acting Keeper of Rare Books and Manuscripts said that \"they are falling apart.\"\n\nIn 2011, the library completed a strategic plan, the BPL Compass, which featured eight community-identified Principles for Excellence. The principles in the plan and all of the related outcomes came as the result of a two-year community engagement process for which Boston Public Library received national recognition.\n\nIn fiscal year 2012, the city of Boston spent 1.26% ($27,836,648) of its budget on the library, or $43.74 per person.\n\nIn 2013, the library unveiled its Collections of Distinction, an initial group of 18 collections that represent the most outstanding, expansive, and renowned of its holdings, Boston Public Library gives priority to Collections of Distinction with respect to public access, acquisition, digitization, preservation, and staff development.\n\nIn fall 2013, the library began a renovation of the Central Library's Johnson building. In February 2015, the first phase of renovation opened on the Johnson building's second floor, including the new Children's Library, Teen Central, a community reading area, and the Adult Reference area. The renovated second floor cost a total of $18 million. The second phase of the Johnson building renovations opened in the summer 2016 and included the first floor, mezzanine, and exterior.\n\nIn 2017, the library had 3,818,883 visitors to all locations, 4,933,786 items borrowed, and 9,839,461 visits to its website. The library also gained 82,911 new library card holders.\n\nThe Boston Central Library is located in Copley Square in Boston's Back Bay neighborhood. The central library consists of McKim Building and Johnson Building, and the two buildings are attached and interconnected with interior passageways. The central library as a whole with the two buildings combined contains of space and houses 21,000,000 items in its collections as of 2015.\n\nThe McKim building houses the BPL's research collection.\n\nDesigned by Philip Johnson, a late modernist addition (which somewhat anticipated postmodernist architecture) was built in 1967–1971 and opened in 1972. The Johnson building reflects similar proportions, and is built of the same pink Milford granite as the McKim building. Critics have likened it to a mausoleum, citing the small percentage of windows relieving the massive walls in its exterior façade.\n\nUpon opening, the Johnson building became the home for the BPL's main circulating collection, which includes works in many languages. It also serves as headquarters for the Boston Public Library's 24 branch libraries.\n\nIn 2013, the library began a major renovation project on the Johnson building. The first phase of the renovation opened in February 2015 on the Johnson building's second floor and features a new Children's Library, Teen Central, a community reading area, and Adult Reference area. The second phase includes renovations to the buildings first floor, mezzanine, and exterior and opened in the summer 2016. The $78 million renovation includes a new business innovation center and business library, a radio broadcasting studio for WGBH (FM), a 3D printer, and a café.\n\nThe Boston Public Library hosts thousands of free public programs each year, including Author Talks, Local and Family History lectures, the Lowell Lecture Series, Concerts in the Courtyard, and art and history exhibitions. The Boston Public Library also offers many daily events for children, teens, adults, and seniors, including story times, therapy dog story times, book discussions, film showings, ESL conversation groups, and research and technology classes.\n\nThe Boston Public Library offers desktop computers with pay-for-print services for public use and free wireless internet at the Central Library all 24 branches for anyone who has a wireless-enabled mobile device and a library card. Plug-in Ethernet access is also available in the McKim building's Bates Hall and the Honan-Allston Branch's Adult Reading Room for up to 2 hours. Library-card holders can also borrow laptops for in-library use for 2 hours at any location.\n\nThe library offers a variety of digital services and collections. The online catalog, also available for mobile devices, allows users to browse and place holds on materials including books, audiobooks, DVDs, and CDs. Users can also download ebooks, e-audiobooks, music, and video through BPL's OverDrive site and check out Zinio magazines for the computer, tablet, or smartphone. Library card holders and e-card holders can also stream movies, television shows, music, and audiobooks through Hoopla Streaming Media.\n\nMany of the Boston Public Library's collections are available to the public online, including rare books and manuscripts, the anti-slavery manuscript collection, historical children's books, the John Adams Library, historic maps from the Norman B. Leventhal Map Center, historical images, prints, and photographs, sound archives, and silent films. Many of the library's digitized works can be found either through the Boston Public Library Flickr page or through their collections on the Digital Commonwealth.\n\nAs of August 2017, the library arranges for its patrons access to digital content from several providers:\n\nBoston Public Library has two digital partners-in-residence at the Central Library in Copley Square. The first is Internet Archive, a nonprofit digital library that offers permanent access to historical collections in digital format for researchers, historians, and the general public. The Digital Public Library of America provides access to digital content from American libraries, archives, museums, and historical societies.\n\nIn the latter half of the 19th century, the library worked vigorously to develop and expand its branch library system. Viewed as a means to extend its presence throughout the city, the branch system evolved from an idea in 1867 to a reality in 1870, when the first branch library in the United States was opened in East Boston. The library currently has 24 branches serving diverse populations in the city's neighborhoods.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15994236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15994236", "title": "Bureau of Ghana Languages", "text": "Bureau of Ghana Languages\n\nThe Bureau of Ghana Languages is an agency of the government of Ghana that focuses on Ghanaian languages, including publication of materials in them.\n\nIt was founded in 1951, originally as the Vernacular Literature Bureau, and later given its current name. It has two offices, one in Accra and the other in Tamale.\n\nIt focuses on 11 languages: Akuapem Twi, Asante Twi, Ewe, Mfantse, Ga, Dangme, Nzema, Dagbani, Dagaare, Gonja and Kasem.\n\nAn institution that provides effective and excellent services for the\npromotion, orthographic control and learning of Ghanaian languages and other cultural aspects through pragmatic strategies and influencing government policies.\n\nThe mission of the Bureau of Ghana Languages is to provide services in Ghanaian languages to individuals, organizations, institutions and the general research into Ghanaian languages, writing, translation of non-local language documents, assessment, editing and publication of documents in Ghanaian languages and to influence government policies on Ghanaian languages.\n\nThe Bureau of Ghana Languages (BGL) is the focal point for the development, promotion, orthographic control and learning of Ghanaian languages and other cultural aspects. It also influences Government Policies on Ghanaian languages through the co-ordination of all agencies involved in promoting Ghanaian languages.\n\nIn 1958 it was converted into a Department under the Ministry of Information. It was later transferred from the Ministry of Information to the Ministry of Education in 1963. The Bureau has since 1 December 1989 been under the National Commission on Culture by the PNDC Law 238. The Bureau of Ghana Languages is a government institution involved in the educational and cultural effort of the nation. It is a unique institution because, as a government publishing house, it is the only institution of its kind that publishes exclusively in Ghanaian languages.\n"}
{"id": "465906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465906", "title": "Chief Whip", "text": "Chief Whip\n\nThe Chief Whip is a political office in some legislatures whose task is to administer the whipping system that tries to ensure that members of the party attend and vote as the party leadership desires. In British politics, the Chief Whip of the governing party in the House of Commons is usually also appointed as Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury, a Cabinet position. The Government Chief Whip has an official residence at 12 Downing Street. However, the Chief Whip's office is currently located at 9 Downing Street.\n\nThe Chief Whip can wield great power over their party's MPs, including cabinet ministers, being seen to speak at all times with the voice of the Prime Minister. Margaret Thatcher was famed for using her Chief Whip as a \"cabinet enforcer\".\n\nThe role of Chief Whip is regarded as secretive, as the Whip is concerned with the discipline of their own party's Members of Parliament and never appears on television or radio in their capacity as whip. An exception was Andrew Mitchell, the Government Chief Whip in 2012, who appeared on television to deny remarks made about himself.\n\nWhips in the House of Commons do not speak in debates.\n\nThe Government Chief Whip is assisted by the Deputy Chief Whip, other Whips, and Assistant Whips. In order to give them a salary for what is in essence a party office, the government whips are appointed to positions in HM Treasury and in the Royal Household under the Lord Steward of the Household. The whips are not fully active in either of these departments, though do undertake a number of responsibilities. The Deputy Chief Whip is Treasurer of HM Household, the next two Whips are Comptroller of HM Household and Vice-Chamberlain of HM Household, and the remaining Whips are Lords Commissioners of the Treasury. Assistant Whips, and Whips of opposition parties, generally do not receive such appointments.\n\nOutside the government, the Official Opposition Chief Whip in the Commons, like the Leader of the Opposition, receives a stipend in addition to their parliamentary salary, because their additional responsibilities will make them unable to hold down another job.\n\nThe whips, although superficially dictatorial, do act as communicators between the backbenchers and the party leadership. Ultimately if backbenchers are unhappy with the leadership's position they can threaten to revolt during a vote and force the leadership to compromise.\n\nWhile the whip was formally introduced to British politics by the Irish Parliamentary Party under Charles Stewart Parnell in the 1880s, in 1846 the Duke of Wellington advised the new Conservative Party leader Lord Stanley to ensure that his \"whippers-in\" were personally loyal.\n\nIn the UK Parliament the importance of a vote is indicated by underlining of items on the \"whip\", which is the name of the letter the Chief Whip sends to all the MPs in their party at the start of the week. This letter informs them of the schedule for the days ahead, and includes the sentence, \"Your attendance is absolutely essential\" next to each debate in which there will be a vote. This sentence is underlined once, twice or three times depending on the consequences that will be suffered if they do not turn up, hence the origin of the terms \"one-line whip\", \"two-line whip\" and \"three-line whip\". The actual vote they are to make is communicated to them in the chamber by hand signals during the division when the time comes (usually after the division bell has been rung). Even though it is more important to the result of any division than the debate, neither these instructions, which are visible to everyone in the chamber, nor the \"whip\" letter at the start of the week, are recorded in \"Hansard\", as they are considered a matter internal to the political party; indeed, the system exists because any explicit direction to an MP as to how they should vote would be a breach of parliamentary privilege.\n\nThe consequences of defying the party whip depend on the circumstances, and are usually negotiated with the party whip in advance. The party whip's job is to ensure the outcome of the vote, so the situation is different and more important for a party which holds the majority, because if their members obey the whip they can always win.\n\nIf the party has a large Commons majority, it can make allowances for MPs who are away on important business, or whose political circumstances require them to take a particular issue very seriously. Theoretically at least, expulsion from the party is an automatic consequence of defying a three-line whip.\n\nOther such offences include betraying party loyalties. An example of this during John Major's government was when nine Conservative MPs had the whip removed after voting against the government on its stance on the Maastricht Treaty, becoming known as Eurosceptics. In practice they remained Conservative MPs supporting the government on other issues. Sir Bill Cash, John Redwood and Iain Duncan Smith are still Conservative MPs. This was also the only time when MPs who were being whipped were cooperating with the opposite side's whips. In most cases the 'pairing' system enables one from each side to cancel out the other's vote if absent simultaneously. Yet despite the whip, individuals are entitled to vote according to their own beliefs, particularly when there is a \"free vote\" on a matter of conscience. There are some cases in which the whip is removed because an issue is a matter of conscience. These include adoption, religion and equal opportunities. The impact of a whip being imposed on a matter of conscience can be damaging for a party leader. One such case was that of Iain Duncan Smith, who imposed a three-line whip against the adoption of children by unmarried couples (which at the time meant gay couples could never adopt). Several Conservative MPs voted against the official party line, and Smith's authority was weakened.\n\nWhips can often be brutal to backbenchers to secure their vote, and will resort to a mixture of promises, cajoling and persuading to force an unpopular vote. A good whip will know secrets and incriminating information about MPs. A whip should know major figures in an MP's local constituency party and the MP's agent. There have been cases where sick MPs were wheeled into the House from far afield to vote for the government on a crucial vote. Former MP Joe Ashton recalled a case from the dying days of James Callaghan's government:\n\n\"I remember the famous case of Leslie Spriggs, the then-Member for St. Helens. We had a tied vote and he was brought to the House in an ambulance having suffered a severe heart attack. The two Whips went out to look in the ambulance and there was Leslie Spriggs laid there as though he was dead. I believe that John Stradling Thomas said to Joe Harper, 'How do we know that he is alive?' So he leaned forward, turned the knob on the heart machine, the green light went around, and he said, 'There, you've lost—it's 311.' That is an absolutely true story. It is the sort of nonsense that used to happen. No one believes it, but it is true.\"\n\nFor a minister, the consequences of defying the party whip are absolute: they are dismissed from their job immediately if they have not already resigned, and return to being a backbencher. Sometimes their votes in Parliament are called the \"payroll vote\", because they can be taken for granted. The consequences for a back-bencher can include the lack of future promotion to a government post, a reduction of party campaigning effort in his or her constituency during the next election, deselection by his or her local party activists, or, in extreme circumstances, \"withdrawal of the whip\" and expulsion from the party.\n\n, the Conservative Government Whips in the Commons are:\n\n\nA similar arrangement exists for Whips in the House of Lords. The Government Chief Whip is usually appointed Captain of the Honourable Corps of Gentlemen-at-Arms, while the Deputy Chief Whip is usually appointed Captain of the Queen's Bodyguard of the Yeomen of the Guard. Other Whips, who are fewer in number due to the decreased importance of party discipline in the Lords, are appointed as Lords in Waiting if men and Baronesses in Waiting if women. As well as their duties as whips, Lords whips speak in the Chamber (unlike Commons whips) to support departmental ministers or act as a spokesperson for government departments with no minister in the Lords. The current Lords whips are:\n\n\n\nThere are also Chief Whips in:\n\n\nThe United States uses the similar terms majority whip and minority whip.\n\nIn India, the concept of the whip was inherited from colonial British rule. Every major political party appoints a whip who is responsible for the party's discipline and behaviour on the floor of the house. Usually, he/she directs the party members to stick to the party's stand on certain issues and directs them to vote as per the direction of senior party members. However, there are some cases such as Indian presidential election where no whip can be issued directing Member of Parliament or Member of Legislative Assembly on whom to vote.\n\nBritish Chief Whips have appeared in fiction such as \"House of Cards\", \"Yes Minister\", \"The Thick of It\" and \"The New Statesman\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1140646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1140646", "title": "Citizens' Action Party (Costa Rica)", "text": "Citizens' Action Party (Costa Rica)\n\nThe Citizens' Action Party (; commonly abbreviated as PAC) is a center-left political party in Costa Rica. \n\nIts platform is based on encouraging citizen participation and involvement in politics. One of its guiding ideals is to fight against corruption, arguing that it is one of the main causes of under development and voter apathy. The party took a leading role in the failed campaign against Costa Rica's membership of the Central American Free Trade Agreement.\n\nPAC was founded in December 2000 by several dissidents from Costa Rica's two traditional parties, the National Liberation Party and the Social Christian Unity Party. Originally an anti-corruption party, it startled the Costa Rican political arena with a very strong showing in the 2002 general elections. In the presidential vote, party founder and candidate Ottón Solís was able to secure 26% of the votes – an unprecedented amount for a third party in Costa Rica – and force a runoff between the PLN and PUSC.\n\nThe party won 21.9% of the popular vote and 14 out of 57 seats in the Legislative Assembly, making it the third strongest political force in the legislature. A few months later, however, after a series of internal disputes, six of the party's 14 deputies resigned from the party, leaving PAC with only eight seats.\n\nIn the February 5, 2006 parliamentary election, the party won 17 out of 57 seats. Ottón Solís ran for president again, losing to the PLN's Oscar Arias Sanchez by less than .2% of the votes. Arias only won by a few thousand votes over the 40 percent threshold required to avoid a runoff. The number of spoiled ballots was larger than the margin between Solís and Arias.\n\nAfter the 2006 election, Ótton Solís took a year away from politics to teach in the United States. Former PLN Secretary General Luis Guillermo Solís' name began being circulated at meetings of the \"ungroup,\" an informal gathering of PAC officials, led by former deputy Alberto Salom. Several PAC officials wanted Luis Guillermo Solís to run as a deputy in San José and as a vice presidential candidate in 2010.\n\nFuture President Luis Guillermo Solís joined the party in 2009. and attended meetings of the \"ungroup\" shortly thereafter in anticipation of the 2014 election.\n\nIn the 2010 election, Ottón Solís ran for his third and final time as president. Laura Chinchilla of the PLN won, but Ottón Solís finished with 25.2% of the votes. PAC won the second fraction in the Legislative Assembly with 11 deputies elected. Six candidates won municipal elections in the rural communities of Aserrí, Matina, Hojancha, Cañas, Los Chiles y Guatuso.\n\nIn 2013, PAC held its second national convention. It was an open convention in which any citizen could vote, despite party affiliation. Four candidates vied for the primary to represent PAC in the 2014 national elections: Epsy Campbell Barr, Juan Carlos Mendoza, Luis Guillermo Solís, and Ronald Solís Bolaños, with Luis Guillermo Solís winning 35% of the votes.\n\nOn 6 April 2014, Luis Guillermo Solís became the president elect of Costa Rica. PAC candidates won 13 seats in the Legislative Assembly.\n\nThe third national convention was held between only two candidates, both former ministers on PAC's first cabinet; Minister of Economy Welmer Ramos and Minister of Labor Carlos Alvarado. Ramos was an economist, more socially conservative and close to the \"ottonista\" faction, whilst Alvarado was writer and political scientist, much more socially liberal and younger, close to the \"progresista\" faction. Alvarado won the primary election becoming PAC's first time candidate during government. \n\nDespite suffering from a diminished popularity due to the \"Cementazo\" scandal affecting the image of Luis Guillermo Solis' government, Alvarado's progressive positions boost him into the second round as a counter-reaction after the growth of Evangelical Christian singer and ultra-conservative candidate Fabricio Alvarado after the backlash against the IACHR's ruling ordering the country to legalize same-sex marriage, winning by a wide margin in the second round with 60% of the votes and more than 1.300.000 votes over the 39% and around 800.000 votes of his rival, becoming the second time that the party achieves more than a million votes in second round.\n\nWhile cleaning up corruption has been one of PAC's main goals since its creation, Solís has added to the party's platform. He wants to build infrastructure, bolster Costa Rica's universal health care and social security systems and push for environmentally friendly policies. Historically, PAC has opposed free trade agreements such as CAFTA, which Solís claims is improperly implemented. In addition, PAC claims that the country's tax system is inadequate, saying that more \"progressive\" system is needed.\n\nPAC is a member of the Progressive Alliance. It maintains informal relations with other progressive and social democratic parties. Ottón Solís has independently met with Ricardo Lagos of the Socialist Party of Chile during a visit to Costa Rica, Cristina Fernández, and members of the Democratic Party of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "42487519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42487519", "title": "Command and influence", "text": "Command and influence\n\nCommand and influence is a component of Military C2 ('Command and control') and is a key aspect of Terrorist Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures.\n\nChris Flaherty in 2003 distinguished the concept of command and influence is a component of Military C2 ('command and control'), in the following terms: \"Influence, is fundamental to effective Command where forces manoeuvre. Thus, recognition of \"Influence\" is an important element in any future warfighting concept. As an alternative to relying on Command and Control (C2) based effective Command there should be utilization of command and \"influence\" (CI) based effective Command.\n\nNotionally, 'influence' is definable as the effect of one person or thing on another. In particular military information operations (IO) implicitly incorporates a variety of influence strategies, in order to shape the military and political spheres in conflict.\n\nThe work of John Arquilla and David Ronfeldt, on the netwar actor, was used as the basis for developing the 'command and influence' model. In particular, their characterization of the network based organisation, as these routinely employ non-hierarchical based decision structures:\nThis later dictum clearly identifies 'Influence' as the enabling mechanism allowing actors/agents to disperse, devote to different tasks, as well as coordinate from a ground level up emulating operational centrality.\n\nSwarming attackers or defenders take advantage of any happenstance they can manipulate (to their own advantage); and are able to overcome coordination barriers, as these adopt the following strategies:\n\nThe key command and influence cohesive factors, are:\n"}
{"id": "864603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864603", "title": "Cudgel War", "text": "Cudgel War\n\nThe Cudgel War (also Club War, , ) was a 1596/97 peasant uprising in the kingdom of Sweden (in the part that is now Finland). The name of the uprising derives from the fact that the peasants armed themselves with various blunt weapons, such as cudgels, flails and maces, as they were seen as the most efficient weapons against their heavily armoured enemies. The yeomen also had swords, some firearms and two cannons at their disposal. Their opponents, the troops of Clas Eriksson Fleming, were professional, heavily armed and armoured men-at-arms.\n\nModern Finnish historiography sees the uprising in the context of the conflict between Duke Charles and Sigismund, King of Sweden and Poland (War against Sigismund). Charles agitated the peasants to revolt against the nobility of Finland, who supported Sigismund in the conflict. \n\nAn uprising began on Christmas Eve 1595 and was initially successful, but shortly thereafter was crushed by cavalry. In December 1596, the Cudgel War began. The peasants won a number of encounters with infantry. Klaus Fleming began negotiating a truce that required the surrender of peasant leader Jaakko Ilkka. Ilkka fled to avoid being handed over and the peasant army scattered, pursued by the soldiers. At least 1500 were killed within the next two months. Along with Jaakko Ilkka, five other rebellion leaders were executed on January 27, 1597.\n\nIsrael Laurinpoika was named as the new governor of central and northern Ostrobothnia, and planned to support the rebellion. However, he fled rather than face Fleming. Leaderless, the peasants opened battle with Fleming on February 24, 1597. Over 1000 were killed and 500 captured.\n\nThe insurgents were mostly Finnish peasants from Ostrobothnia, Northern Tavastia and Savo. The events can also be seen as a part of a larger power struggle between King Sigismund and Duke Charles.\n\nIn his work \"Nuijasota, sen syyt ja tapaukset\" (1857–1859) (), historian and fennoman Yrjö Koskinen (né Forsman) saw the peasants as fighting for freedom and justice. Fredrika Runeberg's \"Sigrid Liljeholm\" (1862), one of the first historical novels in Finland, depicts women's fates during the war. Albert Edelfelt's painting \"Poltettu kylä\" (1879) depicts a woman, a child, and an old man hiding behind a rock as a village burns in the background. The poet Kaarlo Kramsu praised the insurgents and lamented their defeat in patriotic poems such as \"Ilkka\", \"Hannu Krankka\", and \"Santavuoren tappelu\", published in \"Runoelmia\" (1887). After the Finnish Civil War, the debate has centered on an interpretation that emphasizes Duke Charles's role in inciting the revolt, as found in Pentti Renvall's \"Kuninkaanmiehiä ja kapinoitsijoita Vaasa-kauden Suomessa\" (1949); and an explanation that stresses the roots of the rebellion in social injustice and class conflict, as argued by Heikki Ylikangas in \"Nuijasota\" (1977). A historical reenactment of the Cudgel War is conducted yearly in the Kavalahti scout camp. Jaakko Ilkka took the 75th place in the \"Great Finns\" TV show. A commemorative silver coin was also minted to mark the occasion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25980542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25980542", "title": "Dith Pran Holocaust Awareness Project", "text": "Dith Pran Holocaust Awareness Project\n\nThe Dith Pran Holocaust Awareness Project is an American non-profit organization, founded in 1994 by Killing Fields survivor Dith Pran to educate the world about the genocide that took place in Cambodia during the reign of the Khmer Rouge from 1975 to 1979. The organization also keeps photographic records to help Cambodians who are searching for missing family members. Dith Pran headed the organization until his death in 2008, when his widow Kim DePaul assumed that position.\n\n"}
{"id": "13046639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13046639", "title": "Esch-sur-Alzette communal council", "text": "Esch-sur-Alzette communal council\n\nEsch-sur-Alzette communal council () is the local council for the commune of Esch-sur-Alzette, in south-western Luxembourg.\n\nIt consists of nineteen members, elected every six years by proportional representation. The last elections were held on 9 October 2005, and resulted in a victory for the Luxembourg Socialist Workers' Party (LSAP). In the \"collège échevinal\", the LSAP forms a coalition with The Greens, who have the third-largest contingent, under the leadership of LSAP mayor Lydia Mutsch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21011219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21011219", "title": "Ethical leadership", "text": "Ethical leadership\n\nEthical leadership is leadership that is directed by respect for ethical beliefs and values and for the dignity and rights of others. It is thus related to concepts such as trust, honesty, consideration, charisma, and fairness.\n\nEthics is concerned with the kinds of values and morals an individual or a society finds desirable or appropriate. Furthermore, ethics is concerned with the virtuousness of individuals and their motives. A leader's choices are also influenced by their moral development.\n\n"}
{"id": "4842975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4842975", "title": "Gas Cap Law", "text": "Gas Cap Law\n\nThe Hawaii Gas Cap Law is a state law setting a price ceiling on wholesale gasoline prices, the maximum amount that may be charged for producing gasoline and delivering it to a service station. Under the law, the gas cap was set weekly by the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission (PUC) based on average spot prices for regular unleaded gasoline in three U.S. markets, New York Harbor, the Gulf Coast, and Los Angeles.\n\nThe gas cap had a baseline price that is the same throughout Hawaii, but the total wholesale price varied depending on seven zones, reflecting the differing costs of delivery to various locations throughout the state.\n\nOn May 5, 2006, Gov. Linda Lingle (in office, 2002-2010) signed a bill suspending the gas cap law. The bill allows Hawaii's governor to reinstate the gas cap law at any time.\n\n"}
{"id": "11982653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11982653", "title": "Geological Survey of Norway", "text": "Geological Survey of Norway\n\nGeological Survey of Norway (), abbr: NGU is a Norwegian government agency responsible for geologic mapping and research. The agency is located in Trondheim with an office in Tromsø, with about 200 employees. It is subordinate to the Norwegian Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries.\n\nNGU's main work is related to collecting, processing and impart knowledge related to the physical, chemical and mineralogical characteristics of the countries bedrock, mineral resources, deposits and groundwater. Important areas include the Arctic, Antarctica, Svalbard and the continental shelf. With the motto \"Geology for the Society\", NGU provides maps and geological information in national databases. The activity is organized after five key principles:\n\n1. Long-term value creation from geological resources<br>\n2. Increase use of geoscience knowledge in spatial planning and development<br>\n3. Enhanced knowledge of the country’s construction and geological processes<br>\n4. Good communication, management and customization of geological knowledge<br>\n5. Increased quality and efficiency through good interaction internally and externally\n\n The Geological Survey of Norway was established on 6 February 1858 by Order in Council. A few years earlier, the geology student Theodor Kjerulf had submitted the idea of a Norwegian geological survey to the Norwegian interior ministry. The survey would serve to map the country´s agricultural areas and mineral deposits, as well as systematically study how the Norwegian landscape had been formed. In the mid-19th century Norway was modernizing quickly by developing industry and knowledge, along with evolving cultural life. An institution such as a Norwegian geological survey would be \"convenient, scientifically necessary and honorable for the nation\". The first years of its existence, mapping the bedrock, superficial deposits and mineral resources was its principal task, but it contributed to a Norwegian sense of ownership to the land, something that was especially important around 1905, after the Union with Sweden was dissolved. The manager Theodor Kjerulf, and his assistant, Tellef Dahll, shared the mapping of Norway. They purchased equipment, planned the work and trained their field assistants to carry out the surveys.\n\nManager Kjerulf along with Dahll and several assistants had, after about twenty years of work, completed three impressive sets of maps. \"Det sødenfjeldske\" in 1:400 000, \"Trondheim stift\" in 1:800 000 and \"Det nordlige Norge\" in 1:1 million. The maps and their descriptions gave new and valuable knowledge about the Norwegian landscape, and showed that it was possible to combine the scientific, economical and cultural ambitions Kjerulf had fronted when he set out to create the survey.\n\nThere are five support divisions within the agency:\n\n"}
{"id": "30507231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30507231", "title": "Governmental learning spiral", "text": "Governmental learning spiral\n\nThe governmental learning spiral is a technique used to solve specific governance challenges. It is used during prearranged educational events such as conferences, e-learning, and trainings to improve performance in democratic governance. The governmental learning spiral—a heuristic and multidisciplinary tool—has been developed and implemented at international governmental learning events throughout the past decade.\n\nThe technique consists of a nine-stage learning process divided into three phases, which include the planning and aftermath as well as the learning event itself.\n\nA major characteristic of this type of governmental learning event is facilitation by a \"learning broker\" who oversees all aspects of event organization. These include logistics, content preparation, drafting and implementation of the agenda, moderation of the learning sessions, and follow-up activities. The learning broker designs the learning process according to the specific governance challenge at hand.\n\nThe event must be structured based on several factors:\n\nThe participants invited to the event must represent different substantive and organizational perspectives and play a precisely defined role as both knowledge holders and knowledge seekers. When this is achieved, participants have unlimited access to the collective wealth of the shared tacit and explicit knowledge.\n\nThe effects of applying the governmental learning spiral technique are threefold: The primary effect is that governments gain access to the latest knowledge in democratic governance, which they can then apply to specific governance challenges with concrete, practical action. A second effect is that—because of the iterative character of the learning process—the knowledge being learned is always validated and updated in real time to include the latest experiences on the subject. A third effect is that participation in the learning process evokes a sense of social belonging among the learning actors, which often leads to the creation of networks and communities of practice where governments continue to share their latest experiences and by doing so launch the next spin of the Governmental Learning Spiral.\n\nThe governmental learning spiral technique consists of a nine-stage template. The stages of the learning process are organized chronologically in the template and split into three distinct sequences for a particular learning event.\n\n1. Before (framing phase): The \"conceptualization\", \"triangulation\", and \"accommodation\" stages are the preparatory stages, where the specific governance challenge is defined, existing knowledge on the topic is framed, participants are selected and inivited, and trust is established between the learning actors and the event facilitator and between participants and the learning process itself.\n\n2. During (reflection phase): The \"internalization\", \"externalization\", \"reconceptualization\", and \"transformation\" stages represent the core of the educational process, where learning actors review and adapt new knowledge according to their personal needs. Thereafter the actors change their individual and organizational thinking and behavior in an elaborate inter- and intrapersonal procedure.\n\n3. After (projection phase): The follow-up to the learning activity occurs in the \"configuration\" stage, where all the knowledge acquired during the event is made available and accessible to everyone involved in the event as well as to a wider audience. This new knowledge further serves in the final \"iteration\" stage as a frame for the next spin of the governmental learning spiral, as well as a feedback loop in the context of a new learning system.\n\nBecause knowledge in governance has a short half-life and has to be updated constantly, the learning process itself must also be ongoing. This iterative procedure, where knowledge is constantly reviewed, renewed, and transformed into political action in a real-time, multi-turn process, can be illustrated as a spiral. Each of the nine stages of the learning process is bound together by a \"spin,\" which ends with the last iteration stage and restarts the next spin with its first configuration stage.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6253621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6253621", "title": "History of the Green Party of the United States", "text": "History of the Green Party of the United States\n\nThe Green Party is a United States political party. It has its origins dating back to 1984, when 62 people from around the U.S. came to St. Paul, MN to found the first national Green organization - the Committees of Correspondence. Since then, U.S. Greens have gone through several evolutions, from debating theory and praxis in the 1980s, to starting state parties in the 1990s, to the founding of a national political party (recognized by the Federal Elections Commission) in the 2000s.\n\nAt the first North American Bio-regional Congress in May 1984, (convened by David Haenke of the Ozark Area Community Congress and in Missouri), a group met to discuss the need for a green movement in the U.S.. They approved a Green Movement Committee statement \"concerning the formation of a Green political organization in the USA.\" From this initial gathering, a larger meeting was planned for August 1984.\n\nIn August 1984, 62 people met at Macalester College in St. Paul, Minnesota and founded the Committees of Correspondence (or CoC, so named after the Committees of Correspondence of the American Revolutionary War).\n\nThe three-day meeting included activists from peace, ecology and justice groups; veterans of the women's, civil rights, and community movements; and farmers, community leaders, church activists and teachers. There were social ecologists, deep ecologists, eco-feminists, anarchists, socialists and more.\n\nThe organizing committee was made up of professor Charlene Spretnak of California, Harry Boyte, Catherine Burton, Gloria Goldberg and David Haenke; and they invited 200 people from 27 issues areas.\n\nThe CoC was broadly formed to organize local Green groups and work toward creating a Green political organization in the U.S, including the forming of an interim Inter-Regional Committee (IC).\n\nThe meeting also started the creation of the Green Ten Key Values, as the new organization's guiding principles. Differing accounts of this process have been written by Mark Satin and Spretnak.\n\nThe first CoC clearinghouse was established in late 1984 in St. Paul with Harry Boyte, but was hampered by a division at the Macalester meeting as to its role, with a division between those who favored coordinated decentralization and those favoring radical decentralization, to the degree that the clearinghouse be a mail drop and information resource, but not an outreach vehicle.\n\nAt the December 1985 IC meeting in Kansas City, the decision was taken that both the IC and the clearinghouse should actively support organizing efforts through a number of services. The clearinghouse was moved to Kansas City where there was a local organisation (the Prairie Greens) to actively support it. At that time IC Bulletin, the CoC newsletter and the \"Green Letter\", a newsletter published by Jerry Gwathney, were the main channels of information.\n\nThe first \"National Green Gathering\" was held July 1987, at Hampshire College in Amherst, MA and was entitled \"Building the Green Movement - A National Conference for a New Politics.\" The conference brochure stated it as an educational conference, not as a decision making conference.\n\nOver 600 were in attendance. Some of the tensions within the U.S. Green movement were on display at the time - 'party vs. movement', 'deep ecology vs. social ecology' and 'New Left vs. New Age.' Featured speakers included Grace Lee Boggs, Murray Bookchin, Walt Bresette, Guy Chichester, Barbara Epstein, Danny Moses, John Rensenbrink and Ynestra King. Workshops included a session on Independent Political Action. Other well-known Greens in attendance included Dee Berry, Kathy Christensen, Greta Gaard, Gerald Goldfarb, Howie Hawkins, Phil Hill, Myra Levy, Roberto Mendoza, Lorna Salzman, Brian Tokar and Nancy Vogl.\n\nink]] of Maine were selected principal coordinators of what would come to be called the SPAKA process - Strategic Policy Approaches in Key Areas.\n\nThe process started with a call for subjects, which went out to all the Green locals, and many others. The responses to were bundled into 11 major categories. Later they were bundled in 19 categories: Energy, Forest and Forestry, Life Forms, Materials Use and Waste Management, Water/Air, General Economic Analysis, Finance, Land Use, Politics, Social Justice, Eco-Philosophy, Spirituality, Education, Food and Agriculture, Health, Peace and Non-violence, Community, Organizing, and Strategy. 190 position papers (SPAKAS) were received.\n\nAt the \"Green Program Gathering\" in Eugene, Oregon, policy approaches were provisionally approved by delegates, in order to send them back to the Green locals (GCoCs) for an additional year of review and input. The final document was approved at the Third Green Gathering, held in Estes Park, Colorado in September 1990.\n\nThe Greening the West conference was held in (San Mateo County), California in September/October 1988. It was hosted by the Northern California Greens. More than 1,000 people attended.\n\nThe conference featured a workshop entitled \"Towards a Green Party of the West: Local and Regional Electoral Strategies\", which would turn out to be an early stepping stone in the development of a U.S. Green electoral politics. Some 150 people attended the workshop and moved ahead with forming Green Party of the West, a support network. That network form the nucleus for the founding of the Green Party of California 15 months later. On December 31, 1991 California Secretary of State March Fong Eu announced that the California Green Party had registered the prerequisite number of voters to be qualify for the 1992 ballot, becoming the California's seventh political party with ballot access.\n\nThe Second National Green Gathering was held in June 1989 in Eugene, OR. It was entitled 'Green Program Gathering', because it centered upon the SPAKA process (Strategic Policy Approaches in Key Areas), to craft a nationally agreed upon set of Green policy approaches for the GCoC. The local GCoC in Eugene produced a daily Green Tidings, reporting on the Gathering, and contained a daily report on all changes in the 19 subject areas.\n\nAfterward, the Politics Working Group issued a statement encouraging Green electoral activity but recommending that Greens begin running candidates at the local level and only proceed to the state and then to the national level when there were a substantial number of Green officeholders at the level immediately below.\n\nThe Greens/Green Party USA (Greens/GPUSA) was founded at the August 1991 Green Gathering in Elkins, West Virginia restructuring the Green Committees of Correspondence with the idea that the Green movement and Green Party would operate as part of a single organization. A press conference was held in Washington, DC to announce the new organization, featuring Charles Betz (G/GPUSA Coordinating Committee member), Howie Hawkins and Joni Whitmore (Chair, Green Party of Alaska), as well as Hilda Mason of the D.C. Statehood Party.\n\nIn the aftermath of the first Green presidential campaign in 1996, 62 Greens from 30 states gathered in November 1996 to found the Association of State Green Parties (ASGP). The meeting was held in Middleburg, Virginia.\n\nAfter the Elkins meeting in 1991, there was a committee tasked with examining the options for an eventual Green Party. The committee produced a report with contributions from 6 authors. Greg Gerritt's suggestion was to create an Association of State Green Parties based on sovereign state parties, as all political parties are organised in the USA. The reaction of the GPUSA to this suggestion was to throw Gerritt out of the GPUSA. What was founded in 1996 in Middleburg generally followed the proposal Gerritt had submitted in early 1992.\n\nGreen Parties from 13 states were the founding members, and approved its mission: (1) Assist in the development of State Green Parties and (2) Create a legally structured national Green Party. The founding meeting also established a national newsletter \"Green Pages\".\n\nThe concept of the ASGP began in 1992 with those involved in the establishment of the Green Politics Network. The ASGP was predominantly focused on establishing state Green Parties and running and electing Greens for public office, even while its member state parties and the individual Greens involved remained involved in issue activism. From 1997 to 1999, both the ASGP and the Greens/GPUSA aimed to win affiliation of the newly form state parties.\n\nIn December 1999, Mike Feinstein and Howie Hawkins met in New York and wrote the \"Plan for a Single National Green Party\", which was more generally known as the Feinstein/Hawkins Proposal. Its idea was to create a single national Green Party from among the ASGP and GPUSA. It had support in both organisations but stalled. In October 2000, the Feinstein/Hawkins proposal was revived and renamed the \"Boston Agreement\". The Boston agreement was approved was by the ASGP at its December 2000 meeting in Hiawasee, GA, but did not pass at the April 2001 G/GPUSA Congress. This caused a schism in membership among the G/GPUSA from which they never recovered. In an article on the G/GPUSA’s website, the organization characterized the split between itself and the ASGP as akin to the fundi–realo split in the German Greens, with itself being the fundi wing and ASGP the realos.\n\nAt its July 2001 meeting in Santa Barbara, the ASGP voted to change its name to \"The Green Party of the United States\" and apply for recognition of National Committee status by the Federal Election Commission, which it was granted later that year and has retained since.\n\nThe first U.S. Greens to run for public office, 1985, were Wes Hare for Mayor of Chapel Hill, North Carolina and Richard D. Wolff and Joel Schecter for Mayor and Alderman of New Haven, Connecticut. The first U.S. Greens to be elected were David Conley, County Board of Supervisors, Douglas County, Wisconsin and Frank Koehn, County Board of Supervisors, Bayfield County, Wisconsin. Also in 1986, Greg Gerritt would become the first Green to run for a state legislature, running for the Maine House of Representatives.\n\nThe first state Green party to achieve ballot status was Alaska in 1990, based upon Jim Sykes receiving 3.4% for governor of Alaska. The next state parties to qualify came in California, Arizona, New Mexico and Hawaii in 1992, and Maine in 1994.\n\nThe first Green to be elected to a state legislature was Audie Bock, who won a March 1999 special election as a state legislator in the California Assembly from the Alameda/Oakland area. In 2000, Bock lost re-election, running as an independent after leaving the Greens just five months after taking office.\n\nIn November 2002, John Eder's election to the Maine House of Representatives marked the first Green Party state legislator in the United States elected in a regular election. His party designation was \"Green Independent\". In 2004, he won re-election. However, he was defeated in 2006.\n\nIn January 2003, New Jersey Democrat Matt Ahearn became the first sitting state legislator to change affiliation to Green. He was defeated in November 2003 in his bid for re-election.\n\nIn November 2008, Richard Carroll was elected to the Arkansas House of Representatives. However, Carroll announced on April 29, 2009 his departure from the Greens and registering as a Democrat, citing ideological differences that were more in line of the Democratic Party.\n\nAt the 1995 national Green Gathering in Albuquerque, New Mexico, a proposal to put a candidate for president on 40 states was adopted. A significant minority of Greens voiced strong ideological objections (based on the principle of decentralization) to the proposal to become involved in such a large-scale political arena for the first time. Those who wished to run a candidate for president continued to pursue the possibility. Working within their state parties, as well as through an independent organization called Third Parties '96, they convinced Ralph Nader to accept placement on the Green Party of California's March 1996 primary ballot. Eventually he accepted placement on more ballots, but ran a limited campaign with a self-imposed campaign spending limit of $5,000 (which allowed him to avoid being subject to the obligation to file campaign finance statements with the FEC). He chose Winona LaDuke as his vice-presidential candidate. A convention was held at UCLA in Los Angeles on August 20, 1996 where Nader accepted the nomination. Nader/LaDuke were on the ballot in twenty-two states and received 685,297 votes, or 0.7% of all votes cast.\n\nIn September 1998, the New Mexico Green Party proposed that an ASGP Presidential Exploratory Committee be established for the 2000 elections. The ASGP Coordinating Committee agreed and in December the ASGP Steering Committee appointed a seven-person committee. In February 1999 it sent out a letter questionnaire to potential candidates.\n\nDue to Republican candidate George W. Bush's tiny margin of victory in Florida and New Hampshire, some Democrats accused Nader of \"spoiling\" the election of Al Gore, the Democratic Party nominee.\n\nIn the 2004 presidential election, the candidate of the Green Party of the United States for President was Texas attorney and GPUS legal counsel David Cobb, and its candidate for vice-president was labor activist Pat LaMarche of Maine.\n\nIn the Summer of 2003 the Greens began an debate on party presidential strategy. Interest groups were pressuring the Green Party and Ralph Nader not to run a presidential ticket. In response, a section of U.S. Greens issued the statement \"Green & Growing: 2004 in Perspective\".\n\nOn Christmas Eve 2003, Ralph Nader declared that he would not seek the Green Party's nomination for president in 2004, and in February 2004 announced his intention to run as an independent. However he did seek endorsement (rather than the nomination) of the Green Party and other third parties.\n\nThe Cobb-LaMarche ticket in 2004 appeared on 28 of the 51 ballots around the country, down from the Greens' 44 in 2000; the Nader-Camejo ticket in 2004 appeared on 35 ballots. In 2004, Cobb was on the ballot in California (and Nader was not), whereas Nader was on the ballot in New York (and Cobb was not).\n\nCobb-LaMarche received 119,859 votes. Some Greens were not discouraged by the relatively low presidential vote yield in 2004 for Cobb and for Nader, because the Green Party continued to grow in many parts of the country, increasing Green Party affiliation numbers and fielding Green candidates for congressional, state, and local offices. Nader, running in most states as an independent (but with high-profile Green Party activist Peter Camejo as his running mate), received 465,650 votes.\n\nThe number of registered Greens declined by about 23,000 between January 2004 and March 2005, in contrast to a previous period of uninterrupted growth from 1998; the number of Green candidacies declined compared to 2002, and these candidates fared worse than in the past, particularly during the presidential campaign cycle.\n\nNader announced that he would run as an independent candidate (he had never become a party member). Later he explained that he was not seeking the Green Party's nomination, but would (as an independent) seek the party's \"endorsement\". Factions within the party which had been lining up behind potential candidates solidified into a camp favoring a Nader endorsement and a camp favoring nominating an actual Green Party member (the latter favoring primarily David Cobb).\n\nOn June 26, 2004, the Green National Convention nominated Cobb, who promised to focus on building the party. Just over a third of the delegates voted \"No Nominee\" with the intent to later vote for a Nader endorsement. Pat LaMarche of Maine was nominated for vice-president. Cobb and Nader emphasized different strategies. Cobb promised to run a \"strategic states\" campaign based on the preferences and needs of the individual state Green parties; as a result, Cobb campaigned heavily in some battleground states and not in others. Nader intended to run a national multiparty ticket uniting the Greens with other parties.\n\nAfter David Cobb received the party's 2004 presidential nomination at the Green National Convention in Milwaukee, apparently in a show of unity, Nader's Vice Presidential running mate, Peter Camejo, said, \"I'm going to walk out of here arm in arm with David Cobb.\" However, the nominating convention and the political discussions and maneuvering before it generated considerable controversy within the party. At issue was the apportionment of delegates and the method used to determine how many delegates each state received. The group Greens for Democracy and Independence, inspired by the principles in Peter Camejo's Avocado Declaration (in part a response to Nader's declaration not to seek the Green nomination), arose and became an organizing group for Greens disaffected with the internal policies and procedures of the GPUS, and sought reforms.\n\nTwo supporters of Camejo, Carol Miller and Forrest Hill, wrote one of a number of articles printed after the convention, including \"Rigged Convention; Divided Party\"', alleging that the convention elections had been undemocratic. Many Green Party members were upset at the nomination convention's process and results, and some expressed \"embarrassment\" that Nader was not the party's 2004 candidate.\n\nOther Green Party members responded that the analysis they gave in the article was fundamentally flawed to produce skewed results. One such response was that of the national party Secretary, Greg Gerritt, who self-published a book on the subject, \"Green Party Tempest\".\n\nThe Greens fielded candidates in a number of races in 2006. The party won 66 races nationwide, including 21 in California and 11 in Wisconsin. One of the biggest victories included the election of Gayle McLaughlin as mayor in Richmond, California. Richmond now has become the first city with over 100,000 residents to have a Green mayor. In Maine, Pat LaMarche received nearly 10% of the vote in the state's gubernatorial race and the Maine Green Independent Party also won two seats on the Portland City Council. In the Illinois governor's race, candidate Rich Whitney received 10%, making the Green Party one of only three legally \"established\", statewide political parties in Illinois. In Colorado's First District, Tom Kelly received 21% of the vote in his run for the U.S. Congress. However, the party lost its only elected state representative, John Eder.\n\nThe Green Party of Pennsylvania, faced with an exceptionally high ballot access petition requirement, chose to run Green Party organizer, Carl Romanelli, for U.S. Senate. The race between incumbent, Rick Santorum, and the son of a former Governor, Bob Casey, was already prominent on the national scene. Although a strong volunteer petition effort gathered 20,000 to 30,000 signatures, it was clear that paid petitioners would be needed to clear the 67,000 signature threshold.\nAfter Romanelli filed 99,000 signatures the Democrats challenged the petitions, and the Judge ordered the lawyers and nine representatives from each side to work full-time reviewing signatures line by line, which continued for six weeks. Near the end of September the Judge abruptly ruled that Romanelli would be removed from the ballot. Following the controversial precedent set in the 2004 challenge to Nader's petitions in Pennsylvania, Romanelli and his lawyer were later assessed $81,000 for court costs and the challenger's expenses. The Green Party, having no statewide candidates on the ballot to get the required vote threshold, lost its \"minor party\" status in Pennsylvania, leaving only two parties still recognized by the state.\n\nApproximately 8.7 million Americans voted for withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq and for impeachment resolutions on local and state ballots that were initiated or supported by Greens. Troop withdrawal initiatives won in 34 of 42 localities in Wisconsin, including Milwaukee, Madison, and La Crosse, and all 11 communities in Illinois, including Chicago. Of 139 cities and towns in Massachusetts voting on the troop withdrawal measures, only a handful voted nay on initiatives demanding that Congress and the White House end the war immediately.\n\nIn the 2008 U.S. presidential election, the Green Party nominated former six-term Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney of Georgia as its 2008 Presidential nominee and Rosa Clemente as its 2008 Vice Presidential nominee at the party's 2008 National Convention on July 12, 2008 in Chicago, IL. McKinney received 161,797 votes [0.12%] nationwide.\nThe following candidates also sought the Green nomination and were recognized as such by the [Green Party of the United States]:\n\n\nThe Green Party of Minnesota hosted a Green Party Presidential Forum on Saturday January 5 in Minneapolis. It was followed by a January 13 presidential debate in San Francisco, co-sponsored by the Green Party of Alameda County, the San Francisco Green Party and the National Delegates Committee of the Green Party of California. About 800 people attended, with most paying a suggested donation of $10 to $20 to attend. The three-hour event was co-moderated by Cindy Sheehan and Aimee Allison.\n\nFormer Green Party presidential nominee and 2004 independent candidate, Ralph Nader, announced in early 2008 that he would seek the presidency for the fourth time, running with San Francisco lawyer and Green politician Matt Gonzalez as his running mate. However, Nader and Gonzalez declined to seek the Green Party's nomination. Despite not being a formally announced candidate at the time, Nader won the Feb. 5th California and Massachusetts Green Party primaries.\n\nGreen Party primaries in Arkansas, California, Illinois, and Massachusetts were held on February 5, 2008. California and Massachusetts were won by Ralph Nader, while Illinois was won by Cynthia McKinney. Washington, DC held the DC Statehood Green Party primary on February 12 which was won by McKinney as was the February 19 Wisconsin Green primary. On May 13 Mckinney won the Nebraska primary with 57% of the vote.\n\nThere are 31 states plus the District of Columbia where the Green Party has achieved a ballot line in 2008 representing just over 70% of voters and 68% of Electoral Votes.\n\nCynthia McKinney and Rosa Clemente were write-in candidates in all other states with the exceptions of Oklahoma and South Dakota which do not allow write-ins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33047784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33047784", "title": "Human rights in Samoa", "text": "Human rights in Samoa\n\nSamoa, formally the Independent State of Samoa, has a population of approximately 188,000 people. Samoa gained independence from New Zealand in 1962 and has a Westminster model of Parliamentary democracy which incorporates aspects of traditional practices. The Human Rights Protection Party (HRPP) is currently in government and has been so for over 20 years. In 2016, Samoa ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities CRPD and the three optional protocols to the CRC \n\nWhile the Constitution of the Independent State of Samoa provides for the protection of certain fundamental human rights, there continue to be several major issues. Major areas of concern include the under-representation of women, domestic violence and poor prison conditions. \nReports issued under the auspices of the United Nations have noted that societal attitudes towards human rights tend to be sceptical, this is attributed to concern that that enforcement of such rights will be at the detriment of Samoan customs and tradition. Another point of concern is Gay rights in the country as homosexuality is illegal.\n\nSamoa is a member of the United Nations and has also ratified the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) and the eight fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). In 2012 Samoa ratified the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance (CPPED).\n\nDue to limited resources, Samoa has previously failed to issue reports within the designated time frames of the conventions. For example, Samoa submitted its initial, second and third periodic reports under CEDAW as one document in May 2003 when they were due in 1993, 1997 and 2001 respectively.\n\nConcern has been expressed in regard to Samoa’s limited incorporation of treaty obligations into its national law. For example, in 2005 CEDAW voiced concern over the lack of a time frame for reform of domestic legislation in conformity with the convention.\n\nIn response to recommendations, Samoa issued a standing invitation to all United Nations Special Procedures Mandate Holders in 2011.\n\nThe Constitution of the Independent State of Samoa 1960 came into force in 1962 and provides for the protection of fundamental human rights such as:\nWhile freedom from discrimination is provided for in regards to descent, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, social origin, place of birth and family status there is no protection from discrimination on the basis of disability or sexual orientation.\n\nA noteworthy omission from the constitution is the right to be free from torture.\n\nSection 11 of the \"Komesina o Sulufaiga\" (Ombudsman) Act 1988 establishes the Office of the Ombudsman as an independent body authorised to investigate complaints concerning the actions of governmental authorities within the public sector.\n\nIn Samoa’s 2011 Universal Periodic Review (UPR), the Samoa Umbrella for Non-Governmental Organisations (SUNGO) was concerned that the office lacked accessibility due to minimal public awareness of the office’s functions and its limitation to the public sector.\n\nWhile Samoa has no overarching human rights legislation or institution, there has been movement towards the creation of a Human Rights Commission (HRC).\nIn 2009, a joint ‘Samoa Declaration’ was agreed upon amongst several Pacific island states. The declaration emphasised the importance of national human rights institutions and encouraged states to establish such bodies.\nSamoa has undertaken a Law and Justice Sector Plan 2008-2012 which is intended to include the establishment of a HRC. Samoa reiterated its intention to do so in the UPR in 2011 and received recommendations that it initially be established within the Office of the Ombudsman. In 2013, the Parliament of Samoa passed the Ombudsman (Komesina O Sulufaiga) Act to include human rights as part of the functions of the existing Ombudsman.\n\nUniversal suffrage was achieved in 1991 for all Samoan citizens aged 21 years and over.\n\nSamoan tradition is incorporated into the electoral system. Through consensus, a single person is nominated as the chief (\"Maitai\") of each village and only those with a chieftain title may then stand for election of the 47 Samoan seats. Two seats are reserved for non-Samoans.\n\nSUNGO has recommended that the electoral system be altered so as to allow any citizen to stand for election rather than restricting to only those nominated by the village.\n\nThe level of female participation in Samoa politics is ranked as one of the world's lowest. Women's right to vote granted through the inception of universal suffrage in 1991 did little to improve women's participation as the prerequisite to become a candidate in Parliament is being a \"Matai\" (chiefs) and most \"matais\" are men. Therefore, political participation has been a very slow process because women are constantly confronted with challenges and barriers created by traditions, social perceptions, lack of education, measures, policy interventions and much more. To address gender inequality and encourage women's rights in politics, interventions, advocate groups, legislation and treaties have been established. These include the Ministry of Women, Community and Social Development, Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) and the Constitution Amendment Act (2013).\n\nSince Samoa's independence in 1962, only \"matais\" (chiefs) were granted voting rights for various elections at both national and local level. Universal suffrage was introduced in 1991 which granted both women and men aged 21 years and over with voting rights. This was first executed in the 1991 elections.\n\nAn issue exists in regards to the under-representation of women in Parliament. Although there are no legal barriers at the national level, in practice women rarely obtain chief titles. Following the general election of 2006, four women became members of the 49-member Parliament. This represented 8.1% of the available seats. This low representation is thought to be influenced by socio-cultural attitudes. Some villages do not allow women to possess chieftain titles, while others such as Malie, Letogo, Tanugamanono and Saleimoa restrict female chieftain by prohibiting their participation in village councils. This reduces their ability to obtain village consensus for their candidacy.\n\nDespite the inception of universal suffrage, women's representation in the political realm in both local and national levels remain marginalized by chiefs in political decision-making processes. The Electoral Act of 1963 imposes that only a \"matai\" is eligible to run or serve as a Member of Parliament. In which case a large majority of \"matais\" are men. This limited number of women \"matais\" hinders the opportunity for women to participate in politics. However, despite male domination of chief titles, women \"matai\" numbers in 1993 were reported as 1,261 which was considered to be an improvement from earlier years.\n\nMale \"matais\" dominate most of the decision-making in village councils. A limited number of female \"matais\" are a part of the village councils and women are gradually entering the village councils. There are 240 villages in Samoa with an average of 56 \"matais\" per village. \"Pulenu'u\" (village mayors) are elected by the village councils and are remunerated by the government. In 2011, five pulenu'u were women which equated 3 per cent of the total pulenu'u population.\n\nAs for women in village councils, one woman out of 229 village council members was recorded in 1994. In 2011, an overall 10.5 per cent of chiefs were women and in the village councils, women made up the 36 per cent. Findings from research on women's participation in politics found that a low participation of women at the local level translates into the low population in national government.\n\nEarly evidence of women's representation in Parliament began in 1970 (see table below). Honorable Taulapapa Faimaala was the first woman Member of Parliament (MP) in Samoa and served two terms. She was a pioneer for Samoan women as she was also the first Deputy Speaker of the House in 1973 until 1976. Ten years later, her daughter Honorable Fiame Naomi Mata'afa was elected as a MP and is the longest standing woman in Parliament serving 30 years. In 1998, Fiame became the first female Cabinet Minister who has served as the Minister for Education, Women, Community and Social Development. At present, Fiame is the Minister of Justice and Courts Administration.\n\nOver the years there has been a notable increase of female candidates.There were 22 candidates in 1996 where 3 women were selected as cabinet members. Most recently in March 2016 elections, a record breaking total of 24 candidates came forward in which 4 were elected. In adherence to the 10 per cent quota codified in the Constitutional Amendment Act 2013, an additional woman will be added to Parliament due to the results of the elections.\n\nThe following table indicates that despite the relatively low number of female \"matais\", some women have been successful in national politics.\nMany academics have attempted to investigate the challenges women face entering politics at all levels. These include cultural and circumstantial barriers and lack of policy interventions which have been reported to bring hindrance to women obtaining support from the villages, traditional leadership knowledge, mentor assistance and political networking.\n\nRatification of certain treaties, legislation and establishment of a Ministry for Women are among many efforts that Samoa has taken to promote women roles and rights in politics.\n\nThe Samoan government established the Ministry of Women's Affairs now referred to as the Ministry of Women, Community and Social Development (MWCSD). Its purpose according to the Ministry of Women's Affairs Amendment Act 1998 was to empower women to fulfill their role in society and in the workplace. A division of women has been established under the governance of MWCSD, to act as the \"focal point\" for the CEDAW that works in partnership with NGOs and other government departments.\n\nIn September 1991, Samoa ratified the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) to provide a human rights framework based on gender equality. Samoa was the first Pacific Island Country to become a party to CEDAW. In execution of Samoa's commitment to CEDAW, it must submit a report on the legislative, judicial, administration or other measures which it has adapted to give effect to CEDAW. According to UNICEF, members and leaders of judicial, legal, management and community in Samoa society must understand CEDAW to better implement and adhere to this convention.\n\nRelevant to women participation in politics, Article 7 of CEDAW imposes governments to grant women with the right to vote, participate in forming and implementing government policies and to join public and political organisations.\n\nIn June 2013, in response to recommendations for policy interventions to address gender imbalance, the Samoan government ratified the Constitution Amendment Act (2013) (CAA). It established a 10 per cent quota system to reserve seats to women electoral candidates into the national legislative assembly. It guarantees women representation if there is less than five seats elected, up to five seats will be reserved for women and if there are only two, then the three women with the next highest number of votes will be granted seats. In adaptation of such constitutional mandate for female Parliamentarian seats, Samoa has become the first independent country in the Pacific to do so. The Prime Minister Honorable Tuilaepa Aiono Sailele Malielegaoi announced the Parliament's intention when seeking to implement the legislation:\"\"If we do not put in the necessary stipulation in our legislation one never knows whether in the next elections there [will] be absolutely no women in Parliament. So this is part of our intention to ensure that there shall always be women in Parliament.\"\"The reception of the amendment has been both negative and positive. On the one hand, the amendment demonstrates a positive change for Samoa as it will improve women participation in Parliament. The Speaker of the Legislative Assembly referred to it as \"'a new dawn for women\"'. However at the preliminary discussions before passing of the Bill, the opposition party Tautua Samoa contended that there was a need to gather a consensus and views from the villages because some villages have banned women from holding \"matai\" titles. The quota was described as being 'minimal' and 'not enough' to make a real difference. In response to the amendment, annterview with a MP before March 2016 elections stated that Samoan government are not actively executing their duty to address women's representation in politics despite their wish to do so. Another view argued that although the amendment is a good start to counter political involvement, intervention is more needed to address cultural and tangible barriers to women as political leaders.\n\nIn adherence to the new law, the results of the March 2016 elections activated 10 per cent quota system. Four candidates were elected and as such a fifth female candidate will be added to Parliament using the highest votes percentage ratio as required by the amendment.\n\nDomestic violence against women remains a prominent issue in Samoa as recognised by its government and CEDAW. The \"Crimes Act 2013\" criminalizes rape, including marital rape.\n\nAccurate statistics are difficult to obtain as often cases are not reported or recorded due to societal attitudes that discourage this. Altering such perspectives is identified as important in combating this problem. However, there has been a rise in the number of cases reported in recent years. This increase has been attributed to governmental departments and non-governmental organisations (NGO’s) in implementing programmes that have created greater awareness of the issue and encouraged reporting.\n\nSamoa has established measures to aid in combating this problem such as:\n\nWhile women enjoy many of the same rights as men in terms of employment opportunities, there remain areas of discrimination. In 2007 it was reported that under national legislation women were restricted from undertaking night time work or manual labour that is deemed ‘unsuited to their physical capacity.’ This has been seen as inconsistent with article 11 of CEDAW which prohibits discrimination in employment.\n\nThe prison conditions in Samoa, most notably the main prison at \"Tafaigata\", are of low quality and the Samoan government has recognised the need to remedy the situation. Prison facilities lack sufficient resources in regards to funding and the availability of trained personnel. SUNGO reported that a number of prisons failed to adequately provide a sufficient quantity of basic necessities such as water, food and basic sanitation. It has been noted that prison cells are holding large groups of prisoners beyond their capabilities.\n\nWhile the Office of the Ombudsman is authorised to receive complaints from prisoners, this avenue has not yet been utilised. Under the Law and Justice Sector Plan, the government is reviewing the Prison Act 1967 and drafting legislation to move responsibility for the review of prisons away from the Ministry of Police and establish it within an independent authority.\n\nArticle 11 of the Constitution of Samoa guarantees Freedom of Religion. The preamble to the 1960 Constitution enunciates Samoa as “an independent State based on Christian principles and Samoan custom and traditions”. The major issues concerning freedom of religion throughout the years gave rise to international criticism and international media coverage as well as legal battles. These issues stem from the inconsistencies in theory, including a clear definition of what religious freedom is, the interpretation of Article 11 and practices in the local level in villages.\n\nPrior to its independence in 1962, Samoa underwent a lot of struggle through civil wars and the arrival of colonial powers in the 18th century further exacerbated the problem of tribal rivalry. This was because the rivalry between the colonists forced the indigenous groups to take sides creating further conflict between the indigenous people. Colonisation came in the form of missionaries and traders in the 1830s and the arrival of the missionaries brought Christianity. However, it also generated change to Samoa not only of its traditional beliefs but also its world viewpoint. Colonisation, eurocentrism and Christianity influenced Samoa tremendously; through westernisation of systems but also overtime; the erosion of traditional beliefs replaced by modernised Christian concept as well as corruption of thought. The quick succession and acceptance of Christianity concomitant with the fulfilment of the prophecy of the legendary warrior goddess Nafanua. “…foretelling that chief Malietoa would gain power from heaven”. Religion quickly became the core of Samoan life and the cornerstone of the villages. The three main denominations in Samoa are Congregational Christian Church, Methodist and Catholic since these were the first three arrived in Samoa, therefore the villages have a sense of loyalty to these three denominations giving rise to their dominance. Church ministers gain the highest prestige and in most villages; acquire the elite equivalent to the highest chief, with the villagers’ conviction that the true blessings from God is through subservient to the church. Almost all Samoans identify themselves as Christians. A Parliamentary Democracy with its legal system based on English Common law, Samoa was admitted to the United Nations in 1976. Samoa is made up of villages and each village has its own bylaws. These bylaws include which religion the village would accept for villagers to worship. This has been the traditional political system enshrined in their culture for 3,000 years and still practised today. The village system comprises the ‘fono a matai’, or ‘fono a ali’i ma faipule’ the matai council literally meaning ‘the council of titled men’; the ‘fono a matai’ underpins Samoan culture. This council is seen as the law in the villages making the fono the most powerful system in Samoa. They are responsible for making bylaws in which all the villagers abide, regulating the bylaws and rules and setting standardised penalties for violations of village bylaws. Communalism is deeply rooted in village life hence the fono is also accountable for peace and harmony of the village. The fono is governed under the “Village Fono Act 1990”.\n\nThe Constitution of Samoa Article 11 guarantees protection of freedom of religion. However, it has been under scrutiny with much heated debates for years, in its application versus the village fono bylaws. Although these rights are guaranteed; time and time again, violations of these rights are a norm in the local level with most incidents gone unreported; perhaps out of fear of reparations if they oppose the fono openly, or, the value of va-fealoa’i (relationships based on respect of age, gender, status) and so conformity and compliance out of respect for the fono is the usual individual response to rights violations. This is because almost all villages have agreed to the mainline denominations (CCC, Methodist, Catholic) to be the only denominations for the villagers to attend. In the village of Gataivai in Savai’i (Samoa’s biggest island), Methodist is the only denomination allowed whereas in Satupa’itea in Savai’i also where Catholic is the only denomination permitted. But, in the cases that have made the media limelight, for example the village of Salamumu; where a new denomination was banned from holding bible studies in the village as Methodist is the only denomination allowed; four men of an evangelic church were hog-tied; carried to the public road and left there until rescued by a church minister who pleaded for the men’s lives. The new church members’ houses were burnt by the village, their possession destroyed and members beaten including a pregnant woman. In the case of Sovita v Police, the defendants were chiefs and untitled men (taulele’a) of Salamumu village; who argued that they were acting on order and command from the decision made by the fono. The case of Mau Sefo & others v Attorney General, the village of Saipipi banished the plaintiffs from the village for executing bible studies and worship services other than the three (mainline denominations) sanctioned. Furthermore, in the case of Tariu Tuivaiti v Sila Faamalaga & Others, “the plaintiffs were banished from the village of Matautu Falelatai for failing to attend church”. While the Courts are ruling in favour of fundamental rights including freedom of religion under the Constitution, only a few cases make it to court.\n\nThere are a number of reasons why people refrain from seeking legal remedies or advice. It is clear that at the village fono and on the local level, article 11 of the Constitution is hardly appreciated. The aforementioned issues between Christian denominations raises questions of “How religious are Samoans?” and “what Christian principles practised?” as Samoa claim to be a religious nation and these problems contradict the Constitution; of “Samoa is founded on God based on Christian principles and Samoan custom and tradition”. The survey by Angelica Saada titled ‘Samoa: A truly Religious Place? Views Towards Religion in Samoa’, is an endeavour to provide answers to a conflicting Constitution. The lawsuits and village bylaws prove that the individual rights are indeed unprotected. There is an immense gap between the Constitution and the village bylaws. The media also must be commended, because they bring these delicate issues into the public sphere. In the most publicized Salamumu 1998 incident opened discussions, and, the response to the citizens outcry and international denunciation sparked the Cabinet to set up a Commission of Inquiry in 2010 “…to inquire and report on the working of Article 11 of the Constitution of the Independent State of Samoa in relation to the right to freedom of religion”. Nevertheless, critics must not shift the blame to the village fono, as the key to understanding is education. This is where the government is lacking. It is well enough to have guarantee on the protection of fundamental rights, but understanding on application of these rights on the local level have never been clear. It is the government’s responsibility therefore to provide and facilitate discussion and education for the villages on how these rights can be protected and how they can be enhanced by the fono. Bryan Zoe, in her study on “Prosecution of Religious Minorities in Samoa: The Baha’i Struggle to Face a Common Problem”, provide a lot of insight into gaining understanding of the different beliefs and education in other religions other than Christianity. Imam Mohammed Yahya also suggests the importance of gaining knowledge into other faiths will create greater understanding. Dr Bin Yahya also said that ‘the only Christian church to invite him to talk about Islam was the Methodist Theological College’.\n\nThere is another dangerous issue lurking in Samoa’s Constitution. In December 2016, a bill to amend the Constitution was introduced to Parliament and in 2017, the Constitutional Amendment passed. In the preamble, religious freedom was open to interpretation whereas the Constitutional Amendment now is more specific; and enshrined into law. It is now definite to: “Samoa is founded on God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit”. While village bylaws are now more lenient to religious freedom of Christian individuals; due to a lot of negative publicity and criticism, they are still intolerant to religious freedom of minority non-Christian beliefs. The Constitution Amendment further suppress religious freedom of these communities. In the 2013 Samoa International Religious Freedom Report, it is clear that the vast majority of Samoa are unwilling to accept non-Christian beliefs let alone their religious freedom. Section 3 of the same report states; \"Prominent societal leaders repeatedly emphasized in public that the country was Christian. Public discussion of religious issues sometimes included negative references to non-Christian religions\". Although there are limitations to the freedom, there has never been any issues or conflicts from the non-Christian community like the Baha’i Faith and Islam; that would pose any threats to Christians in Samoa. Their principles in particular the Baha’i Faith, consist of universal peace, oneness, equality, the abolitions of religious, racial, political and patriotic prejudice; to name a few. These are the true attributes and values towards peace and harmony in any society. What is more critical is the role of the Samoan National Council of Churches as they put a lot of pressure on the government to ban non-Christian beliefs.\n\nFurthermore, the Samoa parliament is a one-party government and even more contradictory is the religious freedom issue and the mandate of the reigning party; the Human Rights Protection Party (HRPP). The new amendment not only threatens the core principles of democracy, it allows violation of religious freedom of non-Christian communities, a breach of International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) in which Samoa acceded in 2008. Also, under democracy, wouldn’t something so significant like amendment to a constitution be done through a citizens referendum? Part XI, General and Miscellaneous provision, Article 109(1) of the Samoa Constitutional, states: (1) “Any of the provisions of this Constitution may be amended or repealed by Act, and new provisions may be inserted in this Constitution by Act, if a bill for any such purpose is supported at its third reading by the votes of not less than two-thirds of the total Members of Parliament…”, this provision legitimises the Parliaments actions but further violates the citizens political rights. What is more concerning is there is no opposition party and so any Acts of Parliament would not be voted against unless it is a conscious vote. A Constitution amendment without a citizens' referendum is justifiable under the above provision. Religious freedom for the non-Christian minorities are not guaranteed under the New Constitution Amendment. Christians have the new amended Constitution to support and protect them (hence the National Council of Churches are calling to ban Islam from Samoa); whereas non-Christians will be challenged in courts. Imam Mohammed Bin Yahya raised another valid question: “Will the new amendment jeopardise Samoa’s relationships and aid from non-Christian countries like China and Japan?” Meanwhile, despite the Prime Minister saying that the amendment “would unlikely touch Article 11”, there is an international outcry and calls from scholars in Samoa and abroad with concern over the Samoa Constitution Amendment. In the Samoa Observer editorial 30/2/2016, Gatoaitele Savea Sano Malifa stated that “The aim of Prime Minister Tuilaepa’s Constitution Amendment is to declare the dominance of Christianity in Samoa”. Therefore, religious freedom of non-Christian minorities faces uncertainty under the amended Constitution and it appears that violation of fundamental human rights like freedom of religion will soon be lawful in Samoa.\n\nBased on statistics from 2006, there are approximately 2100 persons living with disabilities in Samoa. There is no specific legislation protecting the rights of persons with disabilities and nor is it a basis for freedom from discrimination in Samoa’s constitution. Samoa is not a party to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) yet has indicated that they would consider acceding to it.\n\nSamoa has set up a National Disabilities Taskforce which constructs programmes that provide assistance to persons with disabilities. This is guided by the National Policy and National Plan of Action for Persons with Disabilities set up in 2009.\n\nThe issue of child street vendors in Samoa has been acknowledged with growing concern. SUNGO submits that by allowing this issue to continue, Samoa is acting contrary its obligations under both the CRC in regards to the right to education and the convention of the ILO in regards to freedom from exploitative labour.\n\nReports suggest that issues of poverty and hardship contribute to the existence of child street vendors. Samoa has a National Policy for Children 2010-2015 which is aimed at alleviating poverty and providing protection to children through programmes and services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38954120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38954120", "title": "Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956", "text": "Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956\n\nIndustrial Policy Resolution of 1956 (IPR 1956) is a resolution adopted by the Indian Parliament in April 1956. It was the first comprehensive statement on industrial development of India. The 1956 policy continued to constitute the basic economic policy for a long time. This fact has been confirmed in all the Five-Year Plans of India. According to this resolution the objective of the social and economic policy in India was the establishment of a socialistic pattern of society. It provided more powers to the governmental machinery. It laid down three categories of industries which were more sharply defined. These categories were:\nAlthough there was a category of industries left to the private sector (Schedule C above), the sector was kept under state control through a system of licenses. In order to open new industry or to expand production, obtaining a license from the government was a prerequisite. Opening new industries in economically backward areas was incentivised through easy licensing and subsidization of critical inputs like electricity and water. This was done to counter regional disparities that existed in the country. Licenses to increase the production were issued only if the government was convinced that the economy required more of the goods.\n\nFair and non-discriminatory treatment for the private sector, encouragement to village and small-scale enterprises, removing regional disparities, and the need for the provision of amenities for labor, and attitude to foreign capital were other salient features of the IPR 1956.\n\nThe Industrial Policy of 1956 is known as the economic constitution of the country.\n"}
{"id": "56563607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56563607", "title": "Inequalities in rural and inner city education", "text": "Inequalities in rural and inner city education\n\nInequalities in rural and inner city education are large scale systemic inequalities between differing spatial education systems. The study of these differences, especially within rural areas, is relatively new and distinct from the study of educational inequality which focuses on individuals within an educational system.\n\nRural and inner-city students in the United States are under-performing academically compared to their suburban peers. Factors that influence this under-performance include funding, classroom environment, and the lessons taught. Low achievement rates can also be attributed, in part, to the schools themselves. Inner-city and rural students are more likely to live in low-income households and attend schools with fewer resources compared to suburban students. They have also shown to have a less favorable view of education which stems from the values held in their communities and families regarding school, work, and success.\n\nWhen compared to suburban students, rural and inner-city students face similar achievement issues. Teacher-student interactions, the lessons taught, and knowledge about the surrounding community have shown to be important factors in helping offset the deficits faced in inner-city and urban schools. But drop-out rates are still high within both communities, as a more substantial number of minority students, who often live in these areas, drop-out of high school. A study on inner-city, high school students showed that academic competency during freshman year has a positive impact on graduation rates, meaning that a students' early high school performance can be an indicator of how successful they will be in high school and if they will graduate. With the correct knowledge and understanding of the issues faced by these students, the deficits they face can be overcome.\n\nAchievement in the United States is often measured using standardized tests. Studies have shown that low performance on standardized tests can have a negative effect on the funding the school receives from the government, and low-income students have been shown to underperform on standardized tests at higher rates than their peers. A study looking at how low test performance affected schools<ins>,</ins> found that schools that perform below average and are in low income areas can face repercussions that affect school funding and resources. The study also found that the material taught to students is affected by test performance, as schools that have low test scores will often change their curriculum to teach to the test.\n\nWhen looking at spatial inequalities, it is important to look from multiple points of view. Some factors that are commonly included are demographics, community atmosphere, school and family resources, dropout rates, spending per student, and family traits such as parental education. Currently, these, and other dimensions, are broadly grouped into two categories, \"available resources\" and \"investment decisions\". They each have their own effects, but also may cause and reinforce each other's existence.\n\nIn the same way some regions of the world have so called \"brain drain\", or the loss of wealthy, skilled, and educated individuals and their families to other countries through immigration, rural and inner city regions of the United States experience brain drain to sub-urban regions. It has been shown that people become more likely to leave rural areas as their education level increases and less likely as they increase in age. Urban inner city areas have been decentralizing since the 1950s, losing their human capital. This flight of human capital leaves only the poor and disadvantaged behind to contribute to school funding resulting in school systems that have very limited resources and financial difficulty.\n\nThe American public school system is one in which the amount of wealth in a school district shapes the quality of the school because schools are primarily funded by local property taxes. As the school system's funding decreases, they are forced to do more with less. This frequently results in decreased student faculty ratios and increased class sizes. Many schools are also forced to cut funding for the arts and enrichment programs which may be vital to academic success. Additionally, with decreased budgets, access to specialty and advanced classes for students who show high potential frequently decreases. A less obvious consequence of financial difficulty is difficulty in attracting new teachers and staff, especially those who are experienced.\n\nIt has been shown that the socioeconomic status of the family has a large correlation with both the academic achievement and attainment of the student. \"The income defecate for inner city students is approximately $14,000 per year and $10,000 per year for the families of those living in the respective areas compared to the average income of families in sub-urban areas.\" Though, even within rural areas, there are differences in education and job choisis respective to demographics.\n\nMore well off sub-urban families can afford to spend money on their children's education in forms such as: private school, private tutoring, home lessons, and increased access to educational materials such as computers, books, educational toys, shows, and literature.\n\nSub-urban families are also frequently able to provide larger amounts of social capital to their kids, such as increased use of \"proper English\", exposure to plays and museums, and familiarity with music, dance, and other such programs. Even more, inner city students are more likely to come from single parent homes and rural students are more likely to have siblings than their sub-urban peers decreasing the amount of investment per child their families are able to afford. This notion is called \"resource dilution\" which posits that families have finite levels of resources, such as time, energy and money. When sibship (amount of siblings) increases, resources for each child becomes diluted.\n\nEven if families and schools have the same resources available to them, that doesn't mean they will use them in the same way, or to the same extent. Often, people need proof that there is a connection between investing resources and academic success before they do it. Investment decisions are a function of both resources available and political processes, in regards to distribution of public funds.\n\nThe investment a family puts into their child's education is largely reflective of the value the parent puts on education. The value placed on education is largely a combination of the parent's education level and the visual returns on education in the community the family lives in.\n\nSub-urban families tend to have parents with a much larger amount of education than families in rural and inner city locations. This allows sub-urban parents to have personal experience with returns on education as well as familiarity with educational systems and processes. In addition, parents can invest and transmit their own cultural capital to their children by taking them to museums, enrolling them in extra-curriculars or even having educational items in the house. In contrast, parents from rural and urban areas tend to have less education and little personal experience with its returns. The areas they live in also put very little value on education and reduce the incentive to gain it. This leads to families that could afford to invest greater resources in their children's education not to.\n\nIn the same way that a region or community that places little value on education may decrease a parent's willingness to invest in the education of their children, that community can reduce a school's willingness to allocate funding to provide advanced and in depth educational opportunities for its students. School boards tend to invest resources in response to the demands of the community, and their communities values have been changed due to the \"brain drain\" mentioned previously.\n\n"}
{"id": "89712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89712", "title": "International Tin Council", "text": "International Tin Council\n\nThe International Tin Council (ITC) was an organisation which acted on behalf of major tin producers and consumers to control the international tin market.\n\nAn \"International Tin Study Group\", which was established in 1947 to survey world supply of and demand for tin, led to the treaty, the International Tin Agreement, signed in 1954, and the formation of the ITC in 1956.\n\nThe objectives were:\n\nThe original members were:\nAfter the 1954 agreement, 5 more agreements were signed every five years, in 1960, 1965, 1970, 1975, and 1980.\n\nBy the sixth agreement, established at the United Nations Tin Conference, 1980, new consumers included Finland, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, and Sweden. New producers were Australia, Brazil and Zaire.\n\nAt various times Guinea, Mexico, Republic of Korea, the United Arab Republic, Israel, Liberia, Panama, Yugoslavia, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Poland, the Philippines, Czechoslovakia, Taiwan, Romania, Nicaragua, German Democratic Republic, and Austria held membership.\n\nWith the advent of aluminium containers, the use of protective polymer lacquers inside cans, and increased recycling by industry, the demand for tin decreased considerably by the early 1980s, and in October 1985 the ITC could no longer maintain the price. It eventually ran out of money buying up tin on the metals markets. Attempts to refinance the ITC were eventually abandoned, and since then, as with many other raw materials, the price has generally declined as alternatives become more attractive.\n\nIn 1984 an \"Association of Tin Producing Countries\" was created with members: Australia, Bolivia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nigeria, Thailand, and Zaire.\n"}
{"id": "44940165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44940165", "title": "Intersection assistant", "text": "Intersection assistant\n\nIntersection assistant is an advanced driver assistance system first introduced in 2009.\n\nCity junctions are a major accident blackspot. The collisions here can mostly be put down to driver distraction or misjudgement. Whereas humans often react too slowly, assistance systems are immune to that brief moment of shock.\n\nThe system monitors cross traffic in an intersection/road junction. If this anticipatory system detects a hazardous situation of this type, it prompts the driver to start emergency braking by activating visual and acoustic warnings and automatically engaging brakes.\n\n"}
{"id": "3949811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3949811", "title": "It's Time (Australian campaign)", "text": "It's Time (Australian campaign)\n\nIt's Time was a successful political campaign run by the Australian Labor Party (ALP) under Gough Whitlam at the 1972 election in Australia. Campaigning on the perceived need for change after 23 years of conservative (Liberal-Country Party coalition) government, Labor put forward a raft of major policy proposals, accompanied by a television advertising campaign of prominent celebrities singing a jingle entitled \"It's Time\". It was ultimately successful, as Labor picked up eight seats and won a majority. This was the first time Labor had been in government since it lost the 1949 election to the Liberal Party.\n\nIn the 1969 federal election, the endorsed ALP candidate for the blue-ribbon Liberal seat of Ryan, John Conn, then a lecturer at the University of Queensland, had employed a highly successful door-to-door campaign. For this, he had devised a pamphlet headed: 'It's Time for a Change' followed by a dot-point list of reasons, including education, the war in Vietnam, urban renewal, etc. He managed a swing of 19 per cent, by far the biggest in Queensland, forcing the incumbent, Nigel Drury, to DLP preferences for the first time. Soon afterwards, at a post-election occasion in Brisbane, John Conn was approached and congratulated by Gough Whitlam and Mick Young together. They enquired about the likely reasons for the successful local campaign. John Conn gave each of them a copy of his pamphlet. Mick Young asked if Labor could expect to see a similar effort in 1972. He was told yes but that a shorter, snappier version, 'It's time ...', might be more effective for the next campaign. The originator of the idea heard no more about it until the revamped slogan re-emerged in 1972. John Conn ran again for Ryan in 1972, gaining a further swing but not quite enough to win.\n\nThe slogan \"It's Time\", around which the three-stage campaign was built, was conceived by Paul Jones, at the time creative director at Sydney ad agency Hansen-Rubensohn–McCann-Erickson which was handling ALP's advertising account. The goal of the campaign's first stage was to popularise the phrase while the television commercial served as the core element of the second stage. Conceived by Jones, copywriter Ade Casey (then known as Adrienne Dames) and art director Rob Dames, it was directed by Ric Kabriel and produced through Fontana Films, Sydney. The song was written by Jones and advertising jingle writer Mike Shirley, it was arranged as well as produced by Pat Aulton. Lead singer Alison McCallum laid down the foundation track at ATA Studios, Sydney. The chorus comprising a \"Who's Who\" of Australian entertainment and sport personalities, including Barry Crocker, Bert Newton, Bobby Limb, Dawn Lake, Chuck Faulkner, Col Joye, Graham Kennedy, Jack Thompson, Jacki Weaver, Jimmy Hannan, Judy Stone, Kevin Sanders, Little Pattie, Lynette Curran, Terry Norris, Ade and Rob Dames, among others, was recorded one day in early spring at either the Hordern Pavilion or Supreme Sound in Sydney's Paddington with Joye conducting. The TV spot mainly shows McCallum and the other singers performing the song, intercut are pictures from Whitlam's private photo collection. As well as reaching its target demographic—loosely speaking, women and young people—, \"the ad reached a far wider and probably quite unexpected segment of the electorate.\"\n\nThe \"It's Time\" campaign was first launched in Blacktown, New South Wales in 1972. According to Whitlam himself, Blacktown was chosen because it \"represented – symbolised even – the new outer suburbs of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane where we were building a new constituency. It typified all the urban policy failures of the time, through lack of planning and misallocation of resources at both Federal and State government level.\"\n\nThe speech that Gough Whitlam delivered to the audience in the Blacktown Civic Centre was written for the Labor Party by Graham Freudenberg, the advisor and speech writer to several successive Labor governments.\n\nThe campaign concentrated heavily on the mistakes made by the prime minister of the day, William McMahon, with a special focus given to the areas of the national economy, health care, city planning and the Vietnam War, as well as Whitlam's ideas for governmental reform.\n\nWhitlam put forward an economic plan as part of his \"It's Time\" speech that advocated strong, productive relationships between the public, industry and employees. He contended that only if strong economic growth was maintained, would policies in other areas be feasible. A restoration of genuine full employment along with a projected 6-7% growth of industry were predicted. He argued that his government need not increase taxation to achieve its goals.\n\nThe Labor party planned to introduce a universal health insurance scheme, to which contributions would be made according to income, thus turning the old system on its head.\n\nGough Whitlam declared that the Labor party would set up an Australian Hospitals Commission to promote the modernisation and regionalisation of hospitals. The Commission would be concerned with more than just hospital services. Its concern and financial support would extend to the development of community-based health services and the sponsoring of preventative health programs. Labour encouraged sponsoring public nursing homes, and development of community health clinics.\n\nLabor under Whitlam proposed co-operation with the States, local government and semi-government authorities in a major effort to reduce land and housing costs, and to retard rises in rates and local government charges. To this end they advocated the establishment of a new Ministry of Urban Affairs to analyse, research and co-ordinate plans for each city and region and to advise the Federal Government on grants for urban purposes.\n\nWhitlam claimed that the average cost of housing could be reduced by up to 20% by merely standardizing the reticulation and building and lending authority regulations. He also sought to lower interest payments by making them tax deductible. Labor committed itself to reducing the waiting time for a commission home to under twelve months.\n\nWhitlam promised an end to Australian involvement in the war in Vietnam and an end to conscription into the Australian armed forces. He underscored the relevance of treaties such as ANZUS to the defence of Australia, but also noted that beginning serious relations with China was in the country's best interest.\n\nIt was also announced that all of those previously imprisoned under the National Service Act would be released.\n\nWhitlam asserted that education was to be the fastest growing public sector in Australia, should Labor gain power. In furtherance of this goal, he proposed the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in Government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools. He promised to increase funding to schools, and to allocate it based on need, accusing his predecessor of having neglected some schools in favour of more prestigious ones.\n\nWhitlam announced that pre-school education would be paid for by the state, and that child care would be heavily subsidised under a Labor government. He also said that university fees would be abolished from 1974.\n\nThe ALP saw a great weakness in Australian social welfare in that it relied almost wholly on the provision of cash benefits. Whitlam said he would establish an Australian Assistance Plan with the emphasis on providing social workers to provide advice, counselling and above all the sheer human contact that the under-privileged in the community needed. He also sought to unify the different social justice systems that were in place at that time. Under Labor, the pension rate would be raised to 25% of the average Australian male's earnings.\n\nBy 1972 Australia had been governed by the Liberal-Country coalition for 23 years. However, the Coalition had barely avoided a humiliating defeat when it suffered an 18-seat swing in the 1969 election campaign—one of the largest swings against a government that still managed to keep power. Labor actually won a majority of the two-party vote; had it been able to overcome DLP preferences in four Melbourne-area seats, Whitlam would have become Prime Minister.\n\nAfter the election, Liberal Prime Minister John Gorton was unable to get the better of Whitlam. Over the next two years, the Coalition fell further behind Labor in the polls, and Gorton resigned in 1971 after a tied vote of no confidence in the Liberal caucus. However, his successor, William McMahon, was indecisive, and failed to deliver on many of the Coalition's campaign promises. McMahon was also unable to get the better of Whitlam; his skills as an orator were no match for Whitlam's abilities. One of his own most cited quotes pointed out his indecisive nature.\n\nThe Coalition had focused heavily on relations with the United States since the Second World War to bring Australia under their defence umbrella. Under the auspices of ANZUS, Australia had sent over fifty thousand troops to Vietnam in support of the South Vietnamese forces. The Australian government did not recognise the sovereignty of several communist bloc states including the German Democratic Republic and the People's Republic of China.\n\nApartheid in South Africa was becoming a huge source of controversy, and there was wide public support in Australia to increase sanctions against the white government there, particularly with respect to their sports teams.\n\nUnemployment was 2.5% and inflation was sitting on 6.1%. The Australian Dollar bought 1.93 US Dollars, 362 Yen or 1.97 Pounds Sterling. A general downturn in the western economies of the world, and the rising price of oil were contributing to a poor financial situation for Australia.\n\nLabor received 49.7 per cent of the primary vote, leaving the Liberal-Country Party coalition with just 41.4 per cent. Labor, with 67 of 125 seats in the House of Representatives, now controlled Australia's lower house of Parliament by a margin of nine seats. The overall swing to Labor on 2 December was 2.5 per cent. Labor lost four seats while gaining twelve.\n\nThe 1972 election was the first ALP victory since 1946. Its success is usually attributed to both the \"It's Time\" campaign, and Whitlam's skills as an orator, though Graham Freudenberg had a major influence on many speeches given by members of the ALP during the \"It's Time\" campaign. The campaign helped the ALP to establish new voter constituencies, particularly in outer lying areas of Australia's major population centres, who until then were to a large extent marginalised by the major parties.\n\nOn his first day in office as Prime Minister of Australia, Whitlam declared an end to conscription and began arranging for those imprisoned for avoiding the draft to be released and compensated. During the next few weeks he implemented a range of new measures including the establishment of an Australian honours system and the banning of racially selected sporting teams, a move intended to impede the South African Apartheid policy. East Germany and the People's Republic of China were also recognised for the first time by an Australian government.\n\nDuring its time in office, the Whitlam Government embarked on an ambitious program of social reform in keeping with the promise of change that the ALP campaign emphasised. The social radicalism of the Whitlam Government was such that, during its first thirteen days in office, some forty important decisions had been made.\n\nAs noted by one historian, \"Labor’s extensive reforms during its first term in office were the high water mark of Australian postwar social democracy.\" On coming to office, the Whitlam Government granted federal public servants paid maternity leave, a thirty-six-and-a-quarter-hour workweek, large wage rises and four weeks annual leave. Free tertiary education was introduced, together with a universal health care system and a sole parent pension. Laws were also passed providing for equal pay for women and national land rights, divorce laws were made more liberal, and legislation against racial discrimination was introduced. In addition, the principle of equal pay was extended, occupational health and safety was improved, annual leave loading was introduced, trade union education was established, four weeks of annual leave was achieved as a national standard, military conscription was abolished and Australian troops were withdrawn from Vietnam, a separate ministry responsible for Aboriginal affairs was established, controls on foreign ownership of Australian resources were put in place, laws against sexual discrimination were passed, maternity leave and benefits for single mothers were extended, an attempt was made to democratise the electoral system through the introduction of one-vote-one-value, and a Community Health Program was introduced. The social services were also significantly expanded, with big improvements in the real value of social security payments, spending on housing quadrupled, education outlays doubled, and federal health expenditure rising by 20% A Department of Aboriginal Affairs was also established, while Australia's first federal legislation on human rights, the environment and heritage was initiated.\n\nA significant amount of legislation was passed altogether from 1972 to 1975, with 221 acts passed by parliament in 1973 alone, while the welfare state was significantly extended. Public spending was raised significantly, with the 1973 budget quadrupling spending on housing, tripling outlays on urban development, and doubling spending on education. Through initiatives such as the Australian Assistance Plan and the Regional Employment Development scheme, employment opportunities were expanded and funds allocated towards improving services and amenities in deprived areas, as characterised by the construction of new health centres, community houses, legal services, footpaths, sewers, streetlights, and public libraries.\n\nIn 1978, one observer praised the Australian Assistance Plan for generating\n\n“much more general acceptance of the concepts of welfare for the community and local participation. Moreover, a great deal had actually happened. During the year 1975-76, 1408 grants for community welfare projects were approved by the Social Security Department. A detailed list of AAP projects includes projects relating to citizens’ advice bureaus, community centres, and resource centres, projects to aid families, women, children, young people, the aged, the handicapped, migrants and the needy. It would be difficult to refute the conclusion that the sum of $6.6 million granted to Regional Councils of Social Development in 1975-76 promoted a very large amount of constructive welfare activity because it was spent in support of local and often voluntary efforts.”\n\nBroadcast and television license fees were abolished, while a wide range of new benefits were introduced, such as a handicapped child's allowance, a special orphan's pension, and the Supporting Mothers Benefit. Rates of sickness and unemployment benefits were increased to bring them in line with other social security benefits, while funding was provided for child care, women's refuges, and community health programs. The means test for pensioners over the age of seventy-five was abolished in 1973, and in 1975 the means test was abolished for all pensioners over the age of seventy. As a result of the welfare measures undertaken by the Whitlam Government, social expenditures as a percentage of GDP rose from 12.5% to 17.6% during its time in office.\n\nNeeds-based funding for schools was implemented, spending on technical colleges (including the construction of residential accommodation for students) was significantly increased, and special initiatives for the handicapped, Aborigines, and isolated children were introduced. Farmers benefited from tariff cuts and additional markets established by the Whitlam Government's trade and diplomatic initiatives, together with higher spending on regional education and health, rural research, and other upgraded country facilities. A number of measures were also undertaken to enhance women's rights. International conventions on equal pay, discrimination, and the political rights of women were ratified. New health centres and many women's refuges were established throughout Australia, together with a pre-school and child care program which catered for 100,000 children.\n\nIn March 1973, the service pension was extended to war widows, and in September that year the means test on service pensions was abolished for recipients over the age of 74. In May 1975 the means test was abolished for the age group 70–74 years. Free artificial limbs were also made available through the repatriation artificial limb and appliance centre to all amputees, while free medical and hospital treatment was introduced for veterans of both the Great War and the Boer War and for ex-prisoners of war. The Mental Health and Related Community Services Act of 1973 made grants available to the states for the provision of community-oriented services for drug, alcohol, and mental problems. In 1973, the age limit of 21 years was removed for the payment of additional pension for full-time students and for the payment of guardian's allowance or mother's allowance, and provision was made for payment of additional benefit for a child to continue after their 16th birthday and without limitation on age if the child was a dependent full-time student.\n\nThe government introduced reforms for the superannuation arrangements of its own employees. In July 1973, for instance, the government financed element of pensions was properly indexed against changes in the cost of living for the first time. In August 1973, fair rent provisions for houses and flats were introduced, while a separate housing list for needy families was introduced. In 1974, a generous rental rebate scheme and improved concessions on government loans were introduced to benefit low income earners. Funds were provided to improve the education of handicapped children, while money was also made available for upgrading accommodation in homeless persons’ centres, while finance was also made available to centres on a pro rata basis for the provision of meals and accommodation. An Office of Women's Affairs was established to help women achieve equality, while the Legal Aid Office was set up to provide legal representation for those who couldn’t afford it. The Trade Practices Act, passed in 1974, was aimed at promoting competition in the economy and to improve consumer safeguards. Funding on the arts was doubled, and both FM radio and radio station 2JJ were introduced, the latter in Sydney as part of a plan for a national youth radio network.\n\nA number of amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were also made. The Act was revised to require the democratic control of unions by their rank-and-file members, to require that a union's rules should provide for full participation of its members in its affairs, and prohibited the dismissal of an elected official “unless he is found guilty of misappropriation of funds, gross misbehaviour or gross neglect of duty.” The Act was also revised to prevent returning officers from rejecting a defective nomination “without giving the candidate seven days in which to correct the defect,” to debar union officials from rejecting a rival's nomination for office, and to prohibit a union official or employee “being appointed as that union’s returning officer.”\n\nTariffs for farming implements and equipment were reduced, and farm incomes more than trebled during Whitlam's time in office. In 1973, a payment of emergency adjustment assistance was initiated to benefit canning-fruit growers and growers of pears and apples, while the Dairy Adjustment Act of 1974 provided generous assistance for financially unsound dairy farms. A number of environmental measures were also implemented by the Whitlam Government. In 1974, the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act was passed, which was the first piece of Commonwealth legislation to specifically address environmental issues, and set up procedures to review the environmental impact of development proposals which involved Commonwealth Government decisions. In 1973, the federal government awarded $100,000 in grants to environmental centres throughout Australia, the first action of its kind in Australia. In 1975, the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act was passed, which allowed for the establishment of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service.\n\nThe Supporting Mother's Benefit was introduced in 1973 to alleviate financial deprivation among women whose de facto husbands were in jail, deserted de facto wives, unmarried mothers and other wives separated from their husbands who, for other reasons, were not eligible for the widows’ pension. The Double Orphans’ pension was introduced that same year, providing $10 a week to the guardian of an orphan who had lost both parents. The Handicapped Children's Allowance, introduced a year later, provided $10 a week to the guardians of severely physically or mentally handicapped children who had not been placed in an institution. A special discretionary benefit was introduced for lone fathers in August 1974, payable at the unemployment benefit rate. In February 1973, eligibility for the standard rate of pension, payable to widow pensioners with children and single age and invalid pensioners, was extended to Class B widow pensioners (those over the age of fifty with no dependent children). A change was also made ensuring that pensioners would not lose their extra benefits when a student turned twenty-one. The standard age pension rate was increased from 19.5% of average weekly earnings in September 1972 to 24.4% by December 1975. Social welfare administration was also made more efficient and equitable via the establishment of a Social Welfare Commission and benefit appeals tribunals.\n\nThe sales tax on artificial contraceptives was removed, while grants were made for family planning organisations. Maternity leave provisions for the Public Service were introduced consistent with the requirements of ILO Convention No. 103 – Maternity Provisions (Revised), 1952. The Aged or Disabled Persons’ Homes Bill of 1974 increased the Federal subsidy for aged persons’ homes from two dollars for every dollar provided by a non-profit or local government association to four dollars, while also extending the provisions of the Aged Persons’ Homes Act of 1954 to handicapped adults. The Handicapped Persons’ Assistance Bill of 1974 extended the government's program of assistance to voluntary organisations responsible for the welfare of handicapped people. While spending on education increased from 4.83% of GDP in 1972-73 to 6.18% in 1974-75, the Federal government's share of funding went up from 22.6% in 1972-73 to 42.5% in 1975-76. The Defence Service Homes Act of 1973 extended eligibility for a loan to current servicemen who had not served overseas but who had served for more than three years, to those who had served overseas under the banner of recognised welfare organisations, and to certain unmarried females with qualifying service. In addition, the maximum loan available under the scheme was increased from $9000 to $12000. For veterans, an expanded system of repatriation benefits was introduced, together with improved resettlement allowances, wider eligibility for defence service housing loans, a $1000 free-tax bonus for re-engagements, an attractive new retirement and death benefit scheme, and a more generous system of remuneration.\n\nThe Whitlam Government also sought to extend to Federal public servants the conditions that their State counterparts had long enjoyed. Among the benefits that the Whitlam government introduced for Federal public servants included a reduction in the qualifying time for long-service leave from 15 to 10 years, the removal of job discrimination provisions against women, ample redundancy provisions, a minimum of 12 weeks paid maternity leave with six weeks of paid leave following confinement, one week of paid paternity leave for any employee required to stay at home to care for his wife during or following her confinement, and entitlement to four weeks of annual leave with a 17.5% loading.\n\nThe government also financed a wide range of new local government programs through the State, including tourism, urban transport, national estate, leisure facilities, sewerage backlog, flood mitigation, area improvement, growth centres, and senior citizens’ centres. Outlays on Aboriginal affairs programs were significantly increased with expenditure rising in real terms by 254.6% for legal aid, employment by 350.9%, education by 97.1%, health by 234.6%, and housing by 103.7%. The Australian Citizenship Act of 1973 established Australian citizenship for the first time on the basis of “one criteria, one national allegiance, one citizenship and one ceremony,\" while the Roads Grants Act 1974 provided funds for the building of rural arterial roads, urban arterial roads, minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements, rural local roads, developmental roads, urban local roads and beef roads.\n\nIn 1973, an improved scheme of allowances was introduced to assist parents of children who did not have reasonable access to school services as a result of their geographic location. The quality of health care in rural areas was also improved via the development of a regional hospitals program and promotion of community-based health services. The Trade Union Training Authority Act of 1975 set up a national college and state centres designed to educate trade union leaders in various aspects of industrial relations. The Commonwealth Secondary Scholarship Scheme was replaced by a system of secondary allowances which were made available on the basis of financial need. An isolated children's allowance was introduced to compensate the educational disadvantages faced by children living in remote parts of the country. Greater spending was allocated to the arts, while spending on urban and regional development was accelerated, which contributed to a significant rise in the number of Australian households connected to a sewerage services. A School Dental Service Scheme was also introduced, providing free dental care for schoolchildren. Via grants to the states, the Whitlam Government funded the construction of 18,500 homes for low income earners from 1973 to 1975.\n\nVarious measures were also introduced to enhance educational opportunities. A disadvantaged school program was introduced that provided additional financial assistance for more than 1,000 schools whose students suffered special socio-economic disadvantages. In 1973, capital funds and assistance with running costs were made available for the education of handicapped children while a large training program was initiated for teachers and basic training and research financed for the area of special education. A program of innovative educational projects was successful in providing parents, teachers, and community groups with the first opportunity to try out their ideas for improving education. Over 1,000 projects were funded, ranging from bee-keeping and remedial reading to computers, while a network of educational innovators was set up to exchange experiences and to provide mutual support among people who wanted to be active in improving schools. In 1975, the quality of school curricula was enhanced by the establishment of the Curriculum Development Centre. For those in higher education, the Commonwealth Scholarship Scheme was abolished and replaced by the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, which offered means-tested and non-competitive financial assistance for all tertiary students.\n\nInitiatives were introduced to assist teacher training. Following the delivery of a report by the Special Committee on Teacher Education in March 1973, the Whitlam Government introduced various measures to implement its recommendations for special grants to the States for the building of teachers’ college libraries, fostering research into teacher education, increasing the number of students training to become teachers of handicapped children, and improving facilities in existing colleges of advanced education. The States Grants (Advanced Education) Act (No. 3) 1973 allocated $188 million for the development of teacher education in pre-school teachers’ colleges, State teachers’ colleges, and colleges of advanced education throughout 1973-75, while the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act of 1974 provided recurrent financial assistance for non-government teachers’ colleges for 1974 and 1975. The first national program for technical and further education resulted from the recommendations of the Committee on Technical and Further Education, established in early 1973. This committee produced an interim report in April 1974 which led to the payment of capital and recurrent grants to the States for building and planning new technical colleges and improving facilities at existing ones, especially with respect to teacher training, library services, research facilities, and student accommodation. The sum total of Federal grants increased from $18.1 million in 1972-73 to $81.1 million in 1975-76. Expenditure on state government schools increased more than sixfold, and more than doubled on non-government schools.\n\nResources were also allocated towards a program for migrants. In August 1973, an Immigration (Education) Act was introduced to provide (as an emergency measure under the child migrant education program) supplementary class-room accommodation in schools with special programs for migrant children. In 1973-74, the number of teachers for special migrant classes increased from 1,000 to 1,500 and the number of children receiving instruction went up from 40,000 to 60,000. Migrant education centres were established in Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne, and Sydney, while a home tutoring scheme was established, designed to instruct migrant women in the English language. In migrant communities in all the states, 48 multilingual welfare officers were employed to overcome the social isolation of underprivileged groups. Portable benefit rights were also introduced, with respect to age, invalid, wives’ and widows’ pensions. Whereas under previous arrangements a pensioner had to live in Australia for 20 years after reaching the age of 16 and only had portability rights in Malta, Turkey, Greece, and Italy, the new provisions allowed a person drawing a pension to take up that benefit anywhere in the world after 10 years of Australian residence in the case of an age pension and after 5 years for most invalid pensions, while no period of residence was required for widows permanently resident in Australia when their husbands died.\n\nThe voting age was also lowered to eighteen, and grant programs for regional development were introduced, which provided for urban renewal, the construction of sewerage systems in unserviced urban areas, tourist and leisure facilities, and flood prevention. During its last year in office, the Whitlam Government carried out measures such as the introduction of a national employment and training scheme, the first no fault divorce procedure in the world via the Family Law Act 1975, and a welfare payment for homeless Australians. In the field of communications, the Whitlam Government removed the limitations on the amount of non-English-language programming on radio and television and established the experimental ethnic radio stations 2EA in Sydney and 3EA in Melbourne. In addition, emergency telephone interpreter services were initiated in all community languages.\n\nA number of initiatives were also carried out to improve socio-economic conditions for Aborigines. The rate of training Aboriginal teachers and teachers’ aides was increased, while the Aboriginal Secondary Grants Scheme was introduced to provide allowances to all students of Aboriginal descent attending secondary schools. An Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme was introduced to assist Aboriginal students in tertiary education institutions, while a scheme was introduced for Aboriginal children living in Aboriginal communities to receive primary school instruction in their own language and in their traditional arts and crafts. To grant Aborigines fairer representation within the legal system, the Whitlam Government significantly expanded the terms of the Aboriginal Legal Service established in 1970. $7.8 million was allocated between 1973 and 1976 to establish 25 offices throughout the country which provided free legal aid to Aborigines irrespective of the seriousness of the case. The offices had a majority of Aborigines on their governing bodies and, as a result, were integrated into local Aboriginal communities and provided trustworthy and effective legal representation. In addition, a change was made whereby Aborigines no longer needed to acquire permission to leave the country. Outlays on Aboriginal affairs programs were considerably increased, with expenditure increasing from $61.44 million in 1972-73 to $185.79 million in 1975-76, representing a real increase of 105.8%. Expenditure in real terms went up by 254.6% for legal aid, 350.9% for employment, 97.1% for education, 234.6% for health, and 103.7% for housing. Federal grants to the States for the purpose of Aboriginal health care increased from $4.4 million in 1972-73 to $21.5 million in 1975-76. An Aboriginal Health Service was set up, whereby health and social workers were trained to provide community-based services either at local clinics or as mobile teams in the field. According to Whitlam, this initiative was successful “in eliminating the barriers that exist between Aborigines and primary health institutions.”\n\nThe Housing Society Scheme allowed Aboriginal communities to formulate their own budgets in spending departmental grants (taking into account the importance of Aborigines determining their own housing needs), and by June 1975 over 100 housing societies had been set up and 450 houses had been completed under the scheme. The Aboriginal Loans Commission was set up in December 1974 to make personal and housing loans to Aborigines at a discounted rate of interest, and encouraged the incidence of Aboriginal home ownership while helping to overcome discrimination in finance markets whereby Aborigines with steady employment and incomes were often refused loans for reasons related to their race. In June 1973, the Whitlam Government set up Aboriginal Hostels Ltd. as a public enterprise designed to provide the Aboriginal population with essential and urgent accommodation. By 1975, 74 hostels had been set up, with a combined capacity of 1,677 beds.\n\nThe budget presented on 17 September 1974 included a 173% increase for urban and regional development, a 30% increase for health, and a 78% increase for education. In addition, a revised income-tax scale reduced tax payable for people on incomes less than $10,500 a year. The 1975 budget provided funding for the new Medibank health scheme, together with a 2% increase in education, a 5% increase in urban and regional development, a 15% real increase in social security expenditure, and a restructuring of personal income tax.\n\nDespite being in office for only three years, the Whitlam Government was able to carry out a radical programme of progressive social reform, and arguably came far in meeting the promises of change envisioned by its electoral slogan. According to one historian,\n\n“If many Labor supporters regard the Curtin and Chifley governments as a period of great achievements and greater ambitions frustrated by conservative forces, their illusions in the Whitlam government are even more heroic. After nearly a quarter of a century of stagnant conservative rule during which Australia seemed to be a backward looking outpost of the British empire run by monarchists and reactionaries, Gough Whitlam, the Mighty Gough, broke through and during his first 12 months in office remade Australia forever.”\n\nThe words \"It's Time\" have become an important contribution to the lexicon of Labor's constituency since their first use in Blacktown in 1972. An updated version of the \"It's Time\" song was used in advertisements for the 'Yes' vote in the republic referendum in 1999, which ended with Whitlam saying: \"Yes. It's time.\" In 2000, after another period of Liberal dominance, the phrase had an unsuccessful short-lived recurrence, with Whitlam speaking on behalf of the Leader of the Labor Party, Kim Beazley. Labor's 2015 Marriage Equality initiative used the phrase \"It's Time. Marriage Equality\". \n\nThe Anti Poverty Network of South Australia in 2018 with the Choir of Hard Knocks of Port Adelaide recorded a revised version of the It's Time song, it included lyrics such as: \n\n\"It’s time for changing, not deck-chair rearranging.\" \"Time for poor folk, not rich folk.\" \"It’s time for us folk, yes it’s time.\" and \"It’s time for Newstart, to give a real start, One hundred more a week start, yes it’s time.”\"\n\nThe song is a campaign to the Australian Labor Party to commit if elected at the next federal election to raising Newstart, the Australian Governments Welfare and Social Safety Net for those who are unemployed.\n\n"}
{"id": "11081273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11081273", "title": "KH-9 Hexagon", "text": "KH-9 Hexagon\n\nKH-9 (BYEMAN codename HEXAGON), commonly known as Big Bird or Keyhole-9, was a series of photographic reconnaissance satellites launched by the United States between 1971 and 1986. Of twenty launch attempts by the National Reconnaissance Office, all but one were successful. Photographic film aboard the KH-9 was sent back to Earth in recoverable film return capsules for processing and interpretation. The best ground resolution achieved by the main cameras was better than 0.6 meters.\n\nThey are also officially known as the Broad Coverage Photo Reconnaissance satellites (Code 467), built by Lockheed Corporation for the National Reconnaissance Office.\n\nThe KH-9 was declassified in September 2011 and an example was put on public display for a single day on September 17, 2011 in the parking lot of the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center of the National Air and Space Museum.\n\nOn January 26, 2012 the National Museum of the United States Air Force put a KH-9 on public display along with its predecessors the KH-7 and KH-8.\n\nThe KH-9 was originally conceived in the early 1960s as a replacement for the Corona search satellites. The goal was to search large areas of the earth with a medium resolution camera. The KH-9 carried two main cameras, although a mapping camera was also carried on several missions. The photographic film from the cameras was sent to recoverable re-entry vehicles and returned to Earth, where the capsules were caught in mid-air by an aircraft. Four re-entry vehicles were carried on most missions, with a fifth added for missions that included a mapping camera.\n\nBetween September 1966 and July 1967, the contractors for the Hexagon subsystems were selected. LMSC was awarded the contract for the Satellite Basic Assembly (SBA), Perkin Elmer for the primary Sensor Subsystem (SS), McDonnell for the Reentry Vehicle (RV), RCA Astro-Electronics Division for the Film Take Up system, and Itek for the Stellar Index camera (SI). Integration and ground-testing of Satellite Vehicle 1 (SV-1) was completed in May 1971, and it was subsequently shipped to Vandenberg Air Force Base in a 70 ft container. Ultimately, four generations (\"blocks\") of KH-9 Hexagon reconnaissance satellites were developed. KH9-7 (1207) was the first to fly a Block-II panoramic camera and SBA. Block-III (vehicles 13 to 18) included upgrades to electrical distribution and batteries. Two added tanks with ullage control for the Orbit Adjust System (OAS) and new thrusters for the Reaction Control System (RCS) served to increase KH-9's operational lifetime. In addition the nitrogen supply for the film transport system and the camera vessel was increased. Block-IV was equipped with an extended command system using plated wire memory. In the mid 1970s, over 1000 people in the Danbury, Connecticut area worked on the secret project.\n\nA reentry vehicle from the first Hexagon satellite sank to 16,000 feet below the Pacific Ocean after its parachute failed. The retrieved its payload in April 1972 after a lengthy search but the film disintegrated due to the nine months underwater, leaving no usable photographs.\n\nOver the duration of the program the lifetime of the individual satellites increased steadily. The final KH-9 operated for up to 275 days. Different versions of the satellite varied in mass; most weighed 11,400 kg or 13,300 kg.\n\nThe main camera system was designed by Perkin-Elmer to take stereo images, with a forward looking camera on the port side, and an aft looking camera on the starboard side. Images were taken at altitudes ranging from 90 to 200 miles. The camera optical layout is an f/3.0 folded Wright Camera, with a focal length of . The system aperture is defined by a diameter aspheric corrector plate, which corrects the spherical aberration of the Wright design. In each of the cameras the ground image passes through the corrector plate to a 45 degree angle flat mirror, which reflects the light to a diameter concave main mirror. The main mirror directs the light through an opening in the flat mirror and through a four-element lens system onto the film platen. The cameras could scan contiguous areas up to 120 degree wide, and achieved a ground resolution better than during the later phase of the project.\n\nMissions 1205 to 1216 carried a \"mapping camera\" (also known as a \"frame camera\") that used 9 inch film and had a moderately low resolution of initially , which improved to on later missions (somewhat better than LANDSAT). Intended for mapmaking, photos this camera took cover essentially the entire Earth with at least some images between 1973 and 1980. Almost all the imagery from this camera, amounting to 29,000 images, each covering 3400 square km, was declassified in 2002 as a result of Executive order 12951, the same order which declassified CORONA, and copies of the films were transferred to the U.S. Geological Survey's Earth Resources Observation Systems office.\n\nThe KH-9 was never a backup project for the KH-10 Manned Orbital Laboratory. It was developed solely as a replacement for the Corona search system.\n\nMissions 1205 to 1207 carried Doppler beacons to help map the atmospheric density at high altitudes in an effort to understand the effect on ephemeris predictions. The measurements of the atmospheric density were released through NASA.\n\nMissions 1203, 1207, 1208, 1209, and 1212 to 1219 included Ferret ELINT subsatellites, which were launched into a high earth orbit to catalogue Soviet air defence radars, eavesdrop on voice communications, and tape missile and satellite telemetry. Missions 1210 to 1212 also included scientific subsatellites.\n\nThe total cost of the 20 flight KH-9 program from FY1966 to FY1986 was US$3.262 billion in respective year dollars (equivalent to billion in , with an average reference year of 1976).\n\n\"Data source:\" The Encyclopedia of US Spacecraft and NSSDC\n\nOther U.S. imaging spy satellites:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26255260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26255260", "title": "Kim Seong-su", "text": "Kim Seong-su\n\nKim Seong-su (김성수, 金性洙; October 11, 1891 – February 18, 1955) was a Korean educator, independence activist, journalist, entrepreneur, politician and calligrapher, and the Vice President of South Korea from 1951–1952. He founded Korea University and Dong-A Ilbo. Kim was born in Gochang county, North Jeolla province. Its nickname was Inchon (인촌; 仁村; \"good village\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31122096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31122096", "title": "Konkani language agitation", "text": "Konkani language agitation\n\nThe Konkani language agitations were a series of agitations that happened in the Indian state of Goa (formerly the union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu) during the post-Independence period. The agitations involved several mass protests, riots, student and political movements in Goa, and concerned the official status of Konkani in the state and in the Indian Republic.\n\nSince early times, Konkani language and literature took a beating due to persistent invasions on Goa by:\n\nThe final death knell for Konkani was the Inquisition which sought to root out Konkani from Portuguese territories in India. The use of Konkani, the language of communication between the Portuguese authorities and the local population was, amongst other Hindu practices, declared heretic. Portuguese was declared to be the sole language; a move supported by Franciscan missionaries. It was made the sole language of official communication and a pre-requisite for government jobs. A Church edict in 1684 directed a change over of the \"lingua franca\" from Konkani to Portuguese. This unsuccessful language policy was revoked in 1761 by the Minister of the Kingdom ( Prime Minister) Sebastião José de Carvalho e Melo, better known as the Marquês de Pombal. However, the Inquisition had taken its toll. Konkani manuscripts and literature, in the Nagari and Goykanadi, were consigned to the flames as heretic literature. This led to extermination of Konkani from the \"velhas conquistas\". However, Konkani survived in the Hindu majority \"novas conquistas\", who, in view of the edict against written Konkani continued using Konkani as the language at home. They also used Marathi translations of sacred Hindu texts. This was followed by the arrival of Marathi speaking Brahmins to serve in Hindu temples. This episode in history was an important event in the struggle for the status of Konkani vis a vis Marathi amongst the Hindu population of Goa. Konkani also survived amongst the Saraswat Brahmins, Gaud Saraswat and Bhanap, the Daivajnas, the Kudumbis, the Catholics who migrated to Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra. Konkani received no patronage in her homeland, Goa during the Portuguese period. Occasional books written by Fr. Agnelus F.X. Maffei in 1882 and the book on Konkani grammar by Fr. Thomas Stevens in 1622 were published with Konkani being rendered in the Roman script.\n\nThe first attempt for the revival of Konkani as a language of literature was by Rao Saheb Dr. V.P. Chavan, the former vice-president of the Anthropological Society Bombay through his book \"Konkan and the Konkani Language\" which presented Konkani in the Devanagari script.\n\nThis still did not improve the status of Konkani in 19th century Goa where the Catholic élite admitted their wards to Portuguese medium schools with the idea of enabling them to pursue a professional career or a career in the colonial administration. Marathi and English medium schools emerged in the private sector. Konkani, the \"mā̃yabhās\" (mother tongue) retreated to the confines of the household in favour of the \"poṭācī bhās\" (language of commerce). Multiple dialects emerged not only within Goa, but also in Karnataka and Kerala where Konkani speakers had settled. The anti-Konkani movement of the Portuguese had long ceased and gave way to the Hindu populations cynical view of the status Konkani over Marathi. The ripples of this episode of the language controversy are still prevalent in contemporary Goa.\n\nBy the 1950s, middle class Goans, both Catholic and Hindu, were sending their wards to English medium schools and the Hindu population was catered to by Marathi Medium schools.\n\nThe annexation of Goa in 1961 saw the decline of Portuguese and the rise of English for administrative purposes. Better off Goans, both Christian and Hindu, started sending their wards to English medium schools. Marathi medium schools remained popular with the Hindu population, who looked at Marathi with reverence as the language in which Hindu scriptures, translated from Sanskrit, could be accessed. An argument of Konkani being a Marathi dialect and Konkani speakers being Marathis began to take shape. Although \"Konkani preserved an older stage of phonetic development, and showed a greater variety of verbal forms than standard Marathi\", Indian linguists like Prof. Anant Kakaba Priolkar and European linguists like John Leyden looked at Konkani as a Marathi dialect which branched off from a common Prakrit parent.\n\nPost 1958 saw the birth of a definite pro-Konkani camp that, at different times, included Joaquim Heliodoró da Cunha Rivara, whose essay on Konkani \"O Ensaio Historico da Lingua Concani\" provides considerable information on the language during the first three hundred years of Portuguese rule in Goa, Fr. Agnelus F.X. Maffei, Dr. Sumitra Mangesh Katre, Dr. S. B. Kulkarni, French linguist Jules Bloch and the English scholar John Wilson.\n\nAware of the looming danger of Konkani being sidelined, \"vāman vardē śeṇai vaḷavalikār\", popularly known as\" śeṇai goyẽbāb\" gave a clarion call for the revival of Konkani in the early 20th century. Under his guidance, a steady movement was getting built up and the effort was on to initiate a rejuvenation of Konkani language and heritage, by means of establishing a common cultural identity among the Konkani people.\n\nThe root of the Konkani Language agitation laid in the denial of Konkani as an independent language and the opposition to merge Goa into Maharashtra. Konkani was not taken seriously as a potential official language except by a few stalwarts. By 1960, pro-Konkani and pro-Marathi groups started a propaganda war through distribution of pamphlets. In 1962, the All India Konkani Parishad held its eighth session for the first time at\" Maḍgā̃v\" (Margao) in post-liberation Goa and passed a resolution urging the Kendra Sahitya Akademi to recognise Konkani. Simultaneously, the referendum in 1967 thwarted the merger of Goa into Maharashtra and paved the way for its statehood in the Union of India. Goan statehood gave a further boost to the pro-Konkani camp.\n\nEarlier in 1966, the then Chief Minister of Goa, Dayanand Bandodkar appointed a committee to examine the feasibility of declaring Marathi as the official language of Goa. Attempts were made by some members of the \"Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party\", a party formed before the referendum proposing merger into Maharashtra, and a splinter group to pass a Goa, Daman and Diu Official Language Bill in 1966 which was thwarted by the Chief Minister. On 22 August 1970, Bandodkar declared Konkani, written in the Devanagari script, as the official language of Goa along with Marathi.\n\nIn 1973, chief minister of Goa, Dayanand Bandodkar died, and his daughter Shashikala Kakodkar ascended to the post. Under Kakodkar, government policies favouring Marathi were framed. Marathi was made compulsory in English medium schools whilst Konkani was excluded. This policy was met with severe criticism from Konkani organisations, both, within Goa and outside. Although promises were made by Kakodkar in 1977 and thereafter by then Congress Chief Minister Pratapsinh Rane in 1980 to treat Konkani at par with Marathi, the matter was kept in abeyance till 1986.\n\nIn their election manifesto, the Congress party had stated that once statehood was achieved Konkani would be recognised as an official language and demands would be made to include it in the Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution. In 1980, the Congress came into power under Chief Minister Pratapsinh Rane. Rane, despite the promises made, procrastinated on the issue. This led to an agitation in 1986 on the streets popularly called \"koṅkaṇī prajētso āvāz\" (voice of the Konkani people). Goa witnessed the bloodiest agitation ever, the Language agitation, in which seven pro-Konkani agitators lost their lives and several were injured. The violence only halted when the Goa, Daman and Diu Official Language bill was presented to the legislative assembly.\n\nThe Goa, Daman and Diu Official Language bill, presented to the legislative assembly in 1986, was passed on 4 February 1987 declaring Konkani the sole official language of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu with provisions for Marathi and Gujarati for Daman and Diu. On 30 May 1987 Goa got statehood with Konkani as the sole official language.The Kendra Sahitya Academy recognised Konkani, in the Devanagari script, as an independent language on 26 February 1975. This paved the way for the decision to include Konkani in the Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution making Konkani one of the official languages of India.\n\nThe struggle for Konkani in Goa, did not go unnoticed in Canara and Travancore. The Konkani speakers in Canara (currently Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada) and Travancore (currently Cochin and Ernakulam), inspired by the writings of Shenoi Goembab were getting increasingly aware on the issue of mother tongue.\n\nThe first public pro-Konkani gathering was held outside Goa and by non Goan Konkanis. In 1939, the All India Konkani Parishad was founded by the efforts of Manjunath Shanbhag and the first session was held. This was followed by the second session at Udupi organised by Dr. T.M.A. Pai. The liberation and subsequent statehood of Goa bolstered Konkani's status in Karnataka. In 1962, the Konkani Bhasha Prachar Sabha, Cochin, took up the issue of inclusion of Konkani in the Eighth schedule with the Government of India and the Linguistic Minorities Commission. In 1976, the Konkani Bhasha Mandali was founded at Mangalore enhance the status of Konkani in the state. In 1994, the Government of Karnataka founded the Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy at Mangalore to propagate Konkani literature. The first Vishwa Konkani Sammelan was held in Mangalore in 1995 wherein 5,000 delegated from 75 centres from India, the middle east, the US, UK, etc. participated.\n\nIn 2005, the foundation was laid for a World Konkani Centre to further the cause of Konkani on a global scale. From the academic year 2007-2008 Konkani has become an optional subject in the schools of Karnataka.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32788316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32788316", "title": "Land Settlement Association", "text": "Land Settlement Association\n\nThe Land Settlement Association was a UK Government scheme set up in 1934, with help from the charities the Plunkett Foundation and the Carnegie Trust, to re-settle unemployed workers from depressed industrial areas, particularly from North-East England and Wales. Between 1934 and 1939 1,100 small-holdings were established within 26 settlements.\n\nSettlements were set up in rural areas where each successful applicant’s family would be given a small-holding of approximately , livestock and a newly built cottage. Small-holdings were grouped in communities which were expected to run agricultural production as cooperative market gardens, with materials bought and produce sold exclusively through the Association. Applicants were vetted and given agricultural training before being assigned a property.\n\nThe allocation of settlements to the unemployed was suspended at the outbreak of the Second World War through the necessity of increasing food production; favour was given to those already with horticultural skills. After the war the Association was incorporated within a County Council scheme for statutory provision of smallholdings designed as a first step for those going into agricultural production. The scheme was wound-up and all the properties privatised in 1983, by which time it was producing roughly 40% of English home grown salad crops. The residual assets of the scheme were constituted as the LSA Charitable Trust, for the benefit of former tenants and to promote horticultural education.\n\nLand Settlement Association settlements included:\n"}
{"id": "36186621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36186621", "title": "Military Law Literature in India", "text": "Military Law Literature in India\n\nThis article is about military law literature in India.\n\nMilitary law provisions govern the role of India Army during peace and war formulated in the form of Statutes, Rules and Regulations. It is a written code which has seen periodic changes and review, apart from conventions (read customs) of service.\n\nOfficial publications mainly take the form of the Army Act, 1950, Army Rules 1954 and the Regulations for the Army, 1987 (in short RA). Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007 and the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act are also relevant legislation. Another significant but obscure provision is Notes to Indian Military and Air Force Law (commonly referred as NMAFL). Strangely for reason not known, RA and NMAFL continue to be not accessible to the scholars and public at large.\n\nThere are two aspects significant for the purpose of this discussion. Firstly, military law publications were called by different names in the earlier years. However, these were all official publications. Law being complex and technical in nature, these text were not easy to comprehend and apply. The same called for a need to draft ‘notes’ or ‘comments’ thereto. These were prepared and duly inserted by the authorities, whose identity was not indicated. Secondly, military law was included in the syllabus for retention and promotion examinations for military officers. This was done with a view to make the officers study and assimilate relevant legal provisions necessary for enforcement of a disciplinary code amongst the men under their command. A need therefore, existed for publication of books that could explain, guide and amplify the rules. Thus such handbooks were required not only for application of law by the officers for unit routine but also for their understanding while preparing for obligatory examinations.\n\nInfrequent actions were also taken to bring out précis and other publications at command and corps level for dissemination of military law. These too were all in-house publications.\n\nThe growth of military law literature emerged from sheer necessity. It was acknowledged by General C.H. Harrington GBE, KCB, DSO, DCL, the then General Officer Commanding in Chief of Quetta-based Western Command on 28 October 1930 in a foreword to the book titled Handbook of Military Law by Capt. R.J. Wilkins and W.S. Chaney. He wrote,\n\n“There are two main reasons why an officer should be at home in his Military Law.\n\nOne of them, the less important, is that he may pass his promotion examinations.\n\nThe other, by far the more important, is that he may avoid injustice towards his countrymen whom it was his privilege to command.”\n\nMilitary and Cantonment Law in India is perhaps the oldest publication still available on military law. The author in his preface clarified the object of his work was to supply what is believed to be a want by supplementing for India the Manual of Military published by the war office in England.\n\nCourts martial in India was authored by Major LM Peet, officiating Assistant Judge Advocate General, Eastern Command. This publication was a pocket edition of about 4\" by 5\" in size. The publication carries valuable inputs for the conduct of courts martial. It would amaze one to find that common mistakes listed in the book are still often repeated today.\n\nIndian Military Law by Lt. Col. ST Banning, CBE was printed in Great Britain. It was published “on the urgent request of several officers of the Indian Army who had studied the subject with (the author) while preparing for their examinations.” Author’s other book “Military Law” had by then already run into 18th edition. Yet another notable work by the author was titled “Military Law Made Easy.”\n\nNotes on Military Law 1935 (Reprint 1942) was issued by General Headquarters, India. It carried a preface by General AB Haig, Adjutant General in India.\n\nHandbook of Military Law by C. Sanjeevarow Nayudu was perhaps the first book post independence on military law. The author had declared in the preface that he was induced to write the book driven by the extreme need and usefulness of a military handbook. The foreword was written by Mr. B.R. Ambedkar, the then Minister for Law, Government of India. Ambedkar admitted that “for some reason Military Law has not attracted the attention of students of India Law and there are very few books on the subject”\n\nCapt. K.K. Pradhan came up with Text Book of Military Law in 1956. The book running in nine chapters dealt with military law enforcement provisions, evidence, duties in aid of the civil power and lastly National Cadet Corps Act and Rules.\n\nPrivileges of the Military Personnel in Courts of Law was written with a very concise aim. Its main feature was a very detailed and exhaustive treatment of the topic. A notable feature of the book was its coverage of the provisions concerning defence of mechanical transport drivers in claims for damages arising out of accidents. Perhaps a book of this nature duly updated is needed even now.\n\n‘Guide to Courts Martial’ by B.L. Goswami was a concise work directed solely at the procedures to applicable at the trial stage. Another book by the same author dealt with the topic of courts of inquiry.\n\nSC Consul, Advocate came up with his book Law Relating to Military Service, Conditions, Privileges and Restrictions in 1965. A number of its chapters related to matters like conditions of service, penal deductions, service privileges, The Indian Soldiers (Litigation) Act, 1925; choice between criminal court and court martial and restrictions on fundamental rights.\n\nThe next book worthy of note and written by a military lawyer was Military Law in India Rear Admiral OP Sharma, the author, in his book first published in 1973 had disclosed that text was the doctoral dissertation for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Law to the Bombay University. It was an exposition of the principles and procedures of military law as they had developed over the last few centuries. The foreword to the book was written by Justice PB Gajenderagadkar, a former Vice Chancellor of the Bombay University and formerly the Chief Justice of India.\n\nO.P. Sharma’s effort is to be specially commended because it pointed out the shortcomings and the gaps in the Indian Military Law. It indicated the ways in which it could be reformed so as to be in line with the role of a soldier in a democratic socialist set up. The work had taken into account more than 200 judgments of Indian High Courts and the Supreme Court. The publication was a scholarly work of merit and made a definite contribution to the knowledge of the law relating to the armed forces.\n\nMilitary Law at a Glance was a concise book which came in the form of a handbook for army promotion examinations. The author claimed that the publication should serve as a help book to find the solution of confronting problems without going into the voluminous material from which it may have to be dug out.\n\nRegimental Officer’s Handbook on Military Law (Questions & Answers) was an invaluable book authored by Brig. AC Mangala. The book running into 160 pages was printed by Army Printing Press, Lucknow in November, 1984. This was a revised edition of the same title first brought out in January 1976. The author in his preface had pointed out that the object of the book was to make readily available to regimental officer’s answers to such practical problems which they have to tackle during the course of their duties in the units and on the staff. Lt. Gen. R.D. Hira, Adjutant General in his foreword to the first edition had hoped that the publication would be useful to officers preparing for promotion and DSSC entrance examination.\n\nMilitary Law in India was a joint effort by Dr. D.C. Jain, Dr. N.K. Indrayan and Maj. C.G. Goel. The work was in the form of a section wise narration of the Army Act provisions with a commentary for each clause. A significant feature of the book was incorporation of relevant case law.\n\nThe main utility of Study and Practice of Military Law11 by Col. G.K. Sharma, first published in 1988, was for assisting regimental officers in dealing with disciplinary cases. The author claimed that his work was a means to find ready answers to the day to day legal problems, faced by commanders, staff officers and persons interested in the study and practice of military law.\n\nThe higher judiciary of law need to consult compilation of case laws on some or similar legal issues. Need for such a compilation was long felt by the judges, lawyers and military authorities. Relating to the Armed Forces in India12 was the first and only book covering rulings given by Supreme Court and various High Courts on military law and service conditions of the armed forces as well as civilians paid from the defence estimates and ex servicemen. All the important judgments, reported or unreported were classified under main headings and sub headings and were listed subject wise in a chronological order.\n\nField Marshal SHFJ Manekshaw in his foreword to the book wrote, “I am sure that their (authors) efforts would be of immense use not only to those in the legal profession but to the staff officers in the Army units and formations as we.” The book has since come out in five editions with substantial increase in its contents.\nA publication titled Compendium of Law for Defence Services came up in 1991. It was essentially a reproduction of Manual of Military Law. Merit of special note were however to portions running into four pages that covered a brief appraisal of trial by courts martial and drawbacks in system of trials by courts martial.\n\nMajor L.J. Obheroi’s his book Questions Answered on Military Law was released in May 1994. The author in the preface declared the main objective to present a useful and accurate guide to commanding officers, formation commanders and staff and regimental officers in regard to their powers and functions under the Army Act. This book was claimed by him to be, the only book which explains how to be refer to MML and RA, with practical examples to get, at the right answers. The book was divided in 20 chapters including specimen charges.\n\nA significant step with regard to military law publications is the Military Law Journal. First started in 1996 as a news letter of the Judge Advocate General’s Department, it later took the shape of a reproduction of case law concerning military law. It is now a bi-annual journal brought out by the Institute of Military Law, Kamptee. It is a priced publication bearing an ISIN No. It is divided in two parts. While the first contains articles and book reviews, the second one carries decisions of the high Courts, Supreme Court, High Courts in India and different benches of the Armed Forces Tribunal on different aspects concerning the Army. Yet another notable feature is its historical section in which earlier cases of relevance are also reproduced. With its maiden appearance in 1996, the annual law journal carries complete text of relevant judgments of the Supreme Court. It also carries review of new books.\n\nCourt Martial and Military Matters by Brig. (now Maj. Gen.) Nilendra Kumar as an attempt to discuss the complexities of modern legal thought as pertaining to military canvas. It took into account a thorough overview of military law. It did not merely described the law but pointed the way ahead. The book in its 15 articles did not present merely abstract legal theory but a discussion of legal principles as well as ground realities. It took stock of practical infirmities in the law.\n\nThe History of the Department of Judge Advocate General was an attempt at the official narration of JAG’s Department history. The text traced the origin of the department and system of courts martial in India. Suitably divided in 10 chapters, the text dealt with pre and post independent eras, revision of publications, legal cells, origin of Corps Day and Institute of Military Law. It also carried a list of the officers serving in the department at the time of publication. The book came in time with the first reunion of the JAG Department.\n\nMilitary Law Handbook for Commanders was published with a firm belief of the author that sound administration and personnel management calls for due emphasis on fair play, adherence to laid down norms and humane treatment of the subordinates. The work was indeed of practical help to commanders at various levels. The second edition of the book in 2011 took into account new changes like setting up of the Armed Forces Tribunal, The Right to Information Act and adoption of information technology by the armed forces.\n\nPension Regulations for the Army 1961 (including 1940) was the title chosen by Captain R.S. Dhull for his first book. The effort was indeed praiseworthy for it made available Pension Regulations to the courts, lawyers and litigants that were otherwise almost never to be found.\n\n2007-2008 Armed Forces20 by Captain R.S. Dhull was a compilation of decisions of higher judiciary in India. It also carried up-to-date orders and information relating to pension. It took into account judgments of the Supreme Court and 47 of various High Courts.\n\nSoldiers invalided out from service on medical grounds are entitled to the award of disability pension when the disability recorded is found to be attributable to or aggravated by the service conditions.\nLaw Relating to the Disability Benefit in the Armed Forces was a compilation of case law where the higher judiciary had examined the legality of executive decisions taken in the matter of award of disability pensions. It also discussed various dimensions of the provisions relating to award of disability benefits to the men in uniform.\n\nCase Studies on Military Law by Maj. Gen. Nilendra Kumar was first published in 2003. It presented live cases relating to investigations and enquiries, disciplinary and administrative action decisions starting with hearing of charge and leading on to disposal of cases. The identity of the offenders, witnesses and those who dealt with the matter as well as units and formations had been concealed. The case studies compiled in the book were intender to help the commanders by drawing suitable lessons by way of an opportunity to carry out a critical analysis of actual and him situations. A review of the book in USI Journal hailed it as a “valuable contribution for proper understanding of the subject through live case studies.”\n\nCourts Martial Under Scrutiny by Maj. Gen Nilendra Kumar appeared as a discourse on divergent issues concerning operations, procurements litigation, human resource management, low intensity conflicts, international terrorism and peace enforcement operations. It was an exercise to analyse critical areas showing crucial deficiencies in the existing legal procedures as noted from academic scrutiny and actual application.\n\nMilitary Law and Writs was brought out by Major J.L. Obheroi in 2003 as an author and publisher. The voluminous work spread over 30 chapters was meant to assist the practitioners of military law by providing them with a ready reckoner to deal with writ petitions. It also contained relevant case law. It covered the whole spectrum of one’s service conditions, rights, duties and obligations.\n\nMilitary Law then, now & beyond was brought out by the Judge Advocate General’s Department at the time of their second Re-union in 2005. This was a unique publication in the form of interviews, articles, poems and pictures. The work was conceived, designed and produced by Maj. Gen. Nilendra Kumar.\n\nThe book was suitably divided into portions dealing with reminiscences; izzat, honour & ethics; courts martial; litigation; law of war, gender justice and human rights, legal training, media and other issues, recollections from the past; armed forces tribunal, reforms in military law, empowerment and way ahead. Elegant layout and superbly printed the book carried interviews with General JJ Singh, Chief of the Army Staff and with Justice Brigadier DM Sen, the first Judge Advocate General of free India. The contributors to the book were some of the well known experts on military and legal issues e.g. Lt. Gen. V.R. Raghavan, Justice DP Wadhwa formerly of the Supreme Court, Dr. Manoj Kumar Sinha, Dr. Manish Arora, Dr. Shyamlha Pappu, Maj. Gen. V.K. Singh, SV Thapliyal and AB Gorthi; Maria Teresa Dutli, Krister Thelin, KPD Samanta, Diane Guillemette, Dr. N.M. Ghatate, PH Parekh etc.\n\nMilitary Law Lexicon was a joint effort by Maj. Gen. Nilendra Kumar and Kush Chaturvedi. It was a lexicon of military legal terms a necessary step for understanding military terms. Various terms were explained by a combination of means i.e. some times by their dictionary meaning or by statutory definition, and at places by a combination of both. Terms of foreign usage were also included.\n\nThe Military Justice System in India by Wg. Cdr. U.C. Jha was a critical study of existing military justice system in India and its comparison with that of the UK and the USA. It enumerated the deficiencies in the Indian military justice system. It articulated that limitations on human rights must be provided for by law and should be consistent with international treaty obligations. The author strongly called for drafting a common code for the three services. He was in favour of the judicial branch of the armed forces to be headed by a Chief Judge Advocate General, of the rank of Lieutenant General, under the Ministry of Defence.\n\nCourts on Military Law by Col. G.K. Sharma and Col. M.S. Jaswal came in the form of voluminous work. It is a narration of the Army Act and Army Rule provisions. Each section or rule was followed by a commentary which was essentially a case law relevant to the text thereof. The book had drawn upon 954 decided cases to build up its text. This number included the rulings on pension matters.\n\nWg. Cdr. U.C. Jha came up with a work titled Armed Forces Tribunal in 2010. The book critically examined the jurisdiction and powers of the Armed Forces Tribunal. It gave an insight into the problems that were likely to be encountered by the tribunal when it started functioning. It also carried a resume of the existing system of grievances redressal.\n\nThe other book by Wg. Cdr. U.C. Jha in 2010 was titled The South Asian Military Law Systems. It was a comparative study of the military law systems of the five South Asian countries viz. Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. It also included certain portions on law of Armed Conflict and International Human Rights Law, relevant to the activities of the Armed Forces. The author devoted a separate chapter to conclusions and recommendations. He advocated separation of the Judge Advocate branch of the respective services and its placement under the Ministry of either law or justice.\n\nA Handbook of Military Law by Wg. Cdr. Dr. U.C. Jha was claimed by the author to have been written with an aim to serve as a ready reference for the officers of the Indian Army who would like to know something about their legal rights and responsibilities. The handbook also covered the syllabus of Part B and D promotion examinations and DSSC entrance examination. The portion on Right to Information had information on a matter otherwise little known to the military. The last chapter dealt with military contingents in peacekeeping.\n\nCourt Martial Process : Empirically studied was the work of Brigadier Rama Gopal Vidhu. It was based on the award of Ph.D by the University of Delhi. The text had drawn heavily on the responses of 200 military and civilian personnel to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the court martial process. The book carried a number of useful suggestions to streamline the procedures at different stages of courts martial.\n\nThe above text is based chiefly on an article by Major General Nilendra Kumar, former Judge Advocate General, Indian Army \n\nAlso See\n\n"}
{"id": "25011204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25011204", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Montenegro)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Montenegro)\n\nThe Ministry of Defense of the Montenegro (Montenegrin: Ministarstvo odbrane Crne Gore, MOCG) is the ministry in the Government of Montenegro that is in charge of the nation's military.\n\n"}
{"id": "18597144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18597144", "title": "National Citizens' Movement for Free Elections", "text": "National Citizens' Movement for Free Elections\n\nThe National Citizens' Movement for Free Elections or NAMFREL is an election watchdog in the Philippines. It was the first and one of the most famous election watch campaign. It is known to have introduced non-partisan national election monitoring to the Philippines after exposing the issues involved with the 1986 Snap Elections.\n\nNAMREL was co-founded by Jose S. Concepcion, Jr., and was its first National Chairperson. NAMFREL was formally organized in October 1983 as an offshoot of the New Voters Registration Committee, which was formed in the 1960s. It currently has the support of more than 140 benefactors and 125 organizations. Its current national chairperson is Corazon Dela Paz-Bernardo.\n\nNAMFREL's goal is to ensure \"free, orderly and honest elections\" in the Philippines. It is a non-partisan organization with over 250,000 member-volunteers from different religious, civic, business, professional, labor, youth, educational, and non-government organizations.\n\nThe Commission on Elections (Comelec) has accredited NAMFREL as its \"citizens' arm\" since 1986 to conduct manual parallel counts, which it called \"Operation Quick Count.\" In 1986, NAMFREL mobilized 500,000 volunteers nationwide to guard the snap presidential elections. President Ferdinand Marcos declared himself the winner of the election; the NAMFREL count, however, showed that Corazon Aquino won. In the days that followed, the EDSA People Power revolt took place, sweeping Aquino to power.\n\nFor the May 2010 automated Philippine presidential elections NAMFREL was not accredited to conduct its own count. Instead, the organization conducted a nationwide election observation mission called \"Bantay ng Bayan\" (\"sentinels of the people\").\n\nPresently, NAMFREL is also active internationally, its officers and volunteers having worked as trainers, observer team members, election administrators and resource persons in 35 countries, and have sent its volunteers as the official Philippine observer delegation to Cambodia during the 1998 parliamentary elections there, as well as in Indonesia in 1999 for the Presidential elections after the fall of Suharto.\n\nIn 1998, NAMFREL representatives attended the International IDEA conference in Copenhagen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28248233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28248233", "title": "National Tea Party Federation", "text": "National Tea Party Federation\n\nThe National Tea Party Federation (NTPF) was formed on April 8, 2010 by leaders of a broad coalition of national and regional Tea Party groups to help spread the movement's message and to respond to mainstream media misinformation about the Tea Party with a quick, unified response. Its press release announcing its formation said, \"The NTPF will act as a clearinghouse and to promote the Tea Party movement's objectives of Fiscal Responsibility, Constitutionally Limited Government and Free Markets.\"\n\nNTPF claimed in January 2011 to have 85 member and affiliate organizations representing over a million individuals. \n\nThe Federation requires that member groups reject Birthers, 9/11 Truthers, racial discrimination, hate speech and acts of violence and subversive behavior. It expelled the Tea Party Express when it refused to remove spokesman Mark Williams, who had made racial comments that he later admitted were objectionable.\n\nThe National Tea Party Federation sent a letter to the Congressional Black Caucus denouncing racism and requesting that the CBC supply any evidence of alleged racist acts at a protest on March 20, 2010 at the U.S. Capitol. \n\nThe National Tea Party Federation official website\n"}
{"id": "15853214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15853214", "title": "Overvote", "text": "Overvote\n\nAn overvote occurs when one votes for more than the maximum number of selections allowed in a contest. The result is a spoiled vote which is not included in the final tally.\n\nOne example of an overvote would be voting for two candidates in a single race with the instruction \"Vote for not more than one.\" \"Robert's Rules of Order\" notes that such votes are illegal.\n\nUndervotes combined with overvotes (known as residual votes) can be an academic indicator in evaluating the accuracy of a voting system when recording voter intent.\n\nWhile an overvote in a plurality voting system is always illegal, in certain other electoral methods including approval voting, this style of voting is valid, and thus invalid overvotes are not possible.\n\nIn the corporate world, the term \"overvote\" describes a situation in which someone votes more proxies than they are authorized to, or for more shares than they hold of record.\n\n"}
{"id": "1549077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1549077", "title": "Pay to play", "text": "Pay to play\n\nPay to play, sometimes pay for play, is a phrase used for a variety of situations in which money is exchanged for services or the privilege to engage in certain activities. The common denominator of all forms of pay to play is that one must pay to \"get in the game\", with the sports analogy frequently arising.\n\nThe term also refers to a growing trend in which individuals or groups may purchase radio or television airtime, much like infomercials, to have their views heard on broadcast stations. While these types of shows are typically shows that have little sponsor support and have no substantiated audience, some major program producers do purchase airtime to \"clear\" their programs in certain major markets. This type of format is particularly common among religious broadcasters (televangelism), where the related term pay for pray is used.\n\nPay to play is a provision in a corporation's charter documents (usually inserted as part of a preferred stock financing) that requires stockholders to participate in subsequent stock offerings in order to benefit from certain antidilution protections. If the stockholder does not purchase his or her pro rata share in the subsequent offering, then the stockholder loses the benefit(s) of the antidilution provisions. In extreme cases, investors who do not participate in subsequent rounds must convert to common stock, thereby losing the protective provisions of the preferred stock. This approach minimizes the fears of major investors that small or minority investors will benefit by having the major investors continue providing needed equity, particularly in troubled economic circumstances for the company. It is considered a \"harsh\" provision that is usually only inserted when one party has a strong bargaining position.\n\nPay to play in the engineering, design, and construction industry can refer to:\nPay to play might also be used to explain the appearance of engineering, design, and construction public work being done not in an open and fair manner.\n\nIn the finance industry, the term \"pay-to-play\" describes the practice of giving gifts to political figures in the hopes of receiving investment business in return.\n\nIn the U.S., after discovering that this practice was not uncommon and was undermining the integrity of the financial markets, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) severely regulated and limited the interactions and gifts-giving practices between the investment industry personnel and politicians and candidates. This can be seen most notably in Rule 206(4)-5 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Rules G-37 and G-38 of the MSRB Rule Book.\n\nPay-to-play occurs when investment firms or their employees make campaign contributions to politicians or candidates for office in the hope of receiving business from the municipalities that those political figures represent. It usually applies to investment banking firms that hope to receive municipal securities underwriting business in return or to investment management firms that hope to be selected for the management of government funds such as state pension funds.\n\nAn example of this form of corruption or bribery is the 2009 probe by then New York State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo into private equity funds payments to placement agents with political connections to obtain business with the New York State Common Retirement System.\n\nThe term also refers to a growing trend, where venue owners charge an up-front fee to performing artists for the use of their facilities. The practice began in Los Angeles, California, during the 1980s. It has become common in many U.S. cities at low-turnout all-ages shows where performers are required to guarantee a minimum attendance through pre-show ticket sales. Pay-to-play gigs are a contentious practice in the UK, and some of the largest pay-to-play gig organisers have generated large amounts of discussion and criticism.\n\nThe term \"Pay to Play\" was also used as the title to a song by the band Nirvana (later renamed to \"Stay Away\"). The refrain referred to the practice of a band or their record label paying radio stations to put a song into heavy rotation. The phrase is also the title to a song by the band Cringer, in which they denounce the practice.\n\nMusic Supervision is a booming field in the music industry, whose professionals place music in many kinds of film, television, commercial, web-based and other live and recorded media cues. While some music supervisors are paid only by their employer or per-project, some companies use a \"pay to play\" model wherein artists \"pay\" to \"submit\" tracks for consideration to a variety of media concerns, only to have to pay the Music Supervision intermediary again at a cost of half of its earning for the track placement should it win a placement.\n\nThe term is also used as slang to refer to Internet services that require that users pay to use them. Usually, it refers to MMORPGs, where players must pay to maintain a playing account, as is the case with \"Eve Online\" or \"World of Warcraft\". This is in contrast to free-to-play games. Many formerly pay-to-play MMORPGs have switched to a free-to-play model, including \"EverQuest\", \"\", \"\", and \"The Lord of the Rings Online\". The game \"RuneScape\" features both free accounts for no money or pay-to-play accounts, with a much larger list of features.\n\nThe term may also refer to something like the online game \"Habbo Hotel\", where there are games inside the game, which you may \"pay to play\" to join into a game whilst it is in progress.\n\nIn politics, \"pay to play\" refers to a system, akin to payola in the music industry, by which one pays (or must pay) money to become a player.\n\nTypically, the payer (an individual, business, or organization) makes campaign contributions to public officials, party officials, or parties themselves, and receives political or pecuniary benefit such as no-bid government contracts, influence over legislation, political appointments or nominations, special access or other favors. The contributions, less frequently, may be to nonprofit or institutional entities, or may take the form of some benefit to a third party, such as a family member of a governmental official.\n\nThe phrase, almost always used in criticism, also refers to the increasing cost of elections and the \"price of admission\" to even run and the concern \"that one candidate can far outspend his opponents, essentially buying the election\".\n\nWhile the direct exchange of campaign contributions for contracts is the most visible form of pay to play, the greater concern is the central role of money in politics, and its skewing both the composition and the policies of government. Thus, those who can pay the price of admission, such as to a $1000/plate dinner or $25,000 \"breakout session\", gain access to power and/or its spoils, to the exclusion of those who cannot or will not pay: \"giving certain people advantages that other[s] don't have because they donated to your campaign\". Good-government advocates consider this an outrage because \"political fundraising should have no relationship to policy recommendations\". Citizens for Responsible Ethics in Washington called the \"Pay-to-Play Congress\" one of the top 10 scandals of 2008.\n\nIncumbent candidates and their political organizations are typically the greatest beneficiaries of Pay-to-Play. Both the Democratic and Republican parties have been criticized for the practice. Many seeking to ban or restrict the practice characterize pay-to-play as legalized corruption.\n\nThe opposite of a pay-to-play system is one that is \"fair and open\"; the New Jersey Pay to Play Act specifically sets out bid processes that are or are not considered fair and open, depending upon who has contributed what to whom. \n\nBecause of individual federal campaign contribution limits in the wake of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (McCain-Feingold), pay-to-play payments of \"soft money\" (money not contributed directly to candidate campaigns and that does not \"expressly advocate\" election or defeat of a candidate) donations to state parties and county committees have come under greater scrutiny. This method refers to money that is donated to an intermediary with a higher contribution limit, which in turn donates money to individual candidates or campaign committees who could not directly accept the payor's funds.\n\nPay-to-Play practices have come under scrutiny by both the federal government and a number of states. In Illinois, federal prosecutors in 2006 were investigating \"pay-to-play allegations that surround Democratic Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich's administration\". The allegations of pay-to-play in Illinois became a national scandal after the arrest of Gov. Blagojevich in December 2008, on charges that, among other things, he and a staffer attempted to \"sell\" the vacated U.S. Senate seat of then-president-elect Barack Obama.\n\nMany agencies have been created to regulate and control campaign contributions. Furthermore, many third-party government \"watchdog\" groups have formed to monitor campaign donations and make them more transparent.\n\nIn a series of academic research articles, Christopher Cotton shows how selling access may lead to better policy decisions compared to other means of awarding access. He also illustrates how wealthy interest groups are not necessarily better off from having better access to politicians.\n\nThe U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has created a rule that puts some restrictions on asset managers when they make campaign contributions. The New York and Tennessee Republican parties filed a lawsuit against the SEC in August over the 2010 rule, arguing that it impedes free speech, seeking a preliminary injunction against the rule. U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell questioned whether the parties have standing to bring the case, noting they failed to name the potential donors and did not cite any investment advisers who are upset about the rule.\n\nBob Cook's August 22, 2012 article in \"Forbes\" addresses the question: \"Will 'Pay to Play' Become A Permanent Part Of School Sports?\"\n\nIn a pay-to-play gig, the performer will either pay the promoter some money to be allowed to perform at the show, or will have to offer some in-kind payment. In a conventional comedy club, the promoter will pay the acts for their performance, and will raise the money to stage the gig by charging the audience. Some clubs offer open mic slots, where newer acts are allowed to learn the craft, unpaid; this is not the same as pay-to-play. Many comedians are against pay-to-play schemes, which they consider exploitative.\n\nPay-to-play was cited as a cause of major damage to the quality of the New York comedy scene. In economic terms, a pay-to-play strategy elevates those people who can afford to perform for nothing, or can afford to pay for their stage-time, which has nothing to do with their quality as an act. The pay-to-play promoter is able to profit from the goodwill and desire to perform of the acts, while discouraging appearances by those who cannot afford to perform without payment.\n\nIn some shows, the performer is asked to bring a certain number of paying audience members. As a payment in kind policy, this has caused similar controversy to pay-to-play. A show where the acts are obliged to bring the audience is called a \"bringer\".\n\nSimilar to the trend cited above in music, pay to play is the practice of visual artists paying gallery owners, dealers, curators, publishers, festival and contest sponsors, and better-established artists to critique, review, judge, exhibit, collect, or publish works created in such disparate media as painting, photography, video, and sculpture. Pay to Play is a type of vanity gallery. Pay to Play is characterized by cash flow that moves away from visual artists. Pay to Play is sold to visual artists and justified by visual artists as \"an investment in future sales\" and may be self-victimization.\n"}
{"id": "6506899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6506899", "title": "Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy", "text": "Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy\n\nThe Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy (, ) is one of the Roman Colleges of the Catholic Church. The academy is dedicated to training priests to serve in the diplomatic corps and the Secretariat of State of the Holy See. \n\nDespite its name, the Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy is not one of the ten Pontifical Academies of the Holy See.\n\nThe patron of the Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy is Saint Anthony the Great.\n\nThe diplomatic service of the Holy See can be traced back to 325 AD when Pope Sylvester I sent legates to represent him at the First Council of Nicaea. The academy was created as the Pontifical Academy of Ecclesiastical Nobles in 1701 by Abbot Pietro Garagni, in close collaboration with Blessed Sebastian Valfrè of the Turin Oratory.\n\nThe Academy was forced to close between 1798 and 1803, the first years of the French occupation of Rome.\n\nLocated inside Palazzo Severoli on the Piazza della Minerva in central Rome, the Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy trains Catholic priests sent by their bishop from different parts of the world to study ecclesiastical and international diplomacy, particularly in order that the alumni may later be selected to serve in the Diplomatic posts of the Holy See—ultimately as a papal nuncio, or ambassador. Many leaders of the church have been alumni of the academy, including Popes Clement XIII, Leo XII, Leo XIII, Benedict XV, and Paul VI. \n\nStudents spend four years at the academy; two years earning a \"licentiate\" in canon law (J.C.L.) from a Roman University (such as the Pontifical Gregorian University), then two years earning a doctorate in canon law (J.C.D.). If the students that have been recruited already have a J.C.D. then their time at the PEA is shortened to two years. The courses are usually in diplomatic history, languages and diplomatic writing and are considered not to be academic, but rather focus on the practical skills needed to serve as a diplomat. By the end of his studies, each student has to possess a working knowledge of at least two languages in addition to his mother tongue.\n\nThe President of the academy is Archbishop Giampiero Gloder, who was previously an official in the Secretariat of State of the Holy See. He succeeded Archbishop Beniamino Stella on September 21, 2013, when Archbishop Stella was named by Pope Francis as the Prefect of the Congregation for the Clergy.\n\nA small number of diplomats currently represent the Holy See but have not been through the formal academic and practical training of the PEA. Examples of these diplomats are Michael Louis Fitzgerald, Silvano Maria Tomasi, Charles John Brown, Aldo Giordano Paul Mounged El-Hachem, Michael August Blume, S.V.D. and Alfred Xuereb.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "198865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198865", "title": "Power to the people (slogan)", "text": "Power to the people (slogan)\n\n\"Power to the people\" is a cultural expression and political slogan that has been used in a wide variety of contexts.\n\nDuring the 1960s in the United States, young people began speaking and writing this phrase as a form of rebellion against what they perceived as the oppression by the older generation, especially The Establishment. The Black Panthers used the slogan \"All Power to the People\" to protest the rich, ruling class domination of society. Pro-democracy students used it to protest America's military campaign in Vietnam.\n\nIn his 1974 book \"Computer Lib\", Ted Nelson connected computer use with political freedom with the rallying cry \"Computer power to the people! Down with the cybercrud.\" In the mid-1980s the People Power movement arose in the Philippines to oust Ferdinand Marcos. In the late 20th century and early 21st century the phrase has been used with regard to energy policy.\n\nThe Pakistan Peoples Party has as its creed, \"Islam is our faith; democracy is our politics; socialism is our economy; all power to the people.\"\n\nDuring the Anti Apartheid struggle in South Africa, the terms Amandla and Matla were used frequently during speeches and rallies, this was followed by the crowd responding with Awethu or Kee A Rona. These terms respectively mean \"Power\" and \"To the people\". These terms are still frequently used in ANC meetings and conferences as well as among student activist groups such as SASCO and the ANC Youth League.\n\nMargaret Thatcher criticised the use of the slogan by the left in a 1986 speech: \"Socialists cry 'Power to the people', and raise the clenched fist as they say it. We all know what they really mean - power over people, power to the State.\"\n\nThe 1970s television series \"Citizen Smith\" had the title character use the slogan in the title sequence.\n\n\"Power to the people\" is the title of a song by John Lennon and a lyric by James Brown: \"Power to the people, people power!\". \"Power to the people, 'cause the people want peace\" is also chanted on the Public Enemy album \"New Whirl Odor\". Rage Against the Machine quoted the slogan in their song \"Year of tha Boomerang\". The Jamaican reggae band Rootz Underground wrote a song entitled \"Power to the People\" in which they quote this slogan in both English and South African versions.\n\nOne of the more politically extreme singer-songwriters is Quino, the lead singer of the reggae band Big Mountain who also wrote a song entitled \"Power to the People\" and then had a tattoo of \"Power to the People\" along with the fist placed on his chest.\n\nThe electronic house music artist Basement Jaxx released a song titled \"Power to the People\" on their album \"Junto\" in 2014.\n\n\"Power to the People\" was spoken by an actress in a Progressive Auto Insurance advertisement in heavy television rotation during 2009.\n\nA popular variation of the slogan is \"Power to the Poor People!\" Amongst others, the South African social movement the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign uses the slogan to express the need for poor people to control their own movements rather than have wealthy donors or NGOs control or speak for them. The divide between South Africa's independent social movements and many leftist and vanguard organisations in South Africa has become a point of contention.\n\nThe South African slogan \"Amandla Ngawethu\" or \"Amandla Awethu\" is also a popular variation of the Power to the People. It literally means \"The power is ours\" but is used in a similar way as \"Power to the People\". It is often used in a call and response format, with the speaker shouting \"Amandla\" and the crowd replying \"Awethu\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12551603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12551603", "title": "Program on Intrastate Conflict and Conflict Resolution", "text": "Program on Intrastate Conflict and Conflict Resolution\n\nThe Program on Intrastate Conflict and Conflict Resolution is a program of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, Cambridge, Massachusetts. The program analyzes the causes of ethnic, religious, and other intercommunal conflict, and seeks to identify practical ways to prevent and limit such conflict. It is concerned with the vulnerability of weak and failed states, with good governance, with improving leadership, with peace building and peace enforcement capabilities in Africa, Asia, and the Caribbean, and with the role of truth commissions in conflict prevention and conflict resolution.\n\nOne of the more recent aims of the program, headed by its Director, Robert I. Rotberg, is to develop an Index of African Governance. The Index evaluates the governance of 48 African nations as a continuation of the program’s ongoing efforts to assist Africans in strengthening governance and leadership throughout the continent.\n\nThe Program on Intrastate Conflict has published a number of books including \"Building a New Afghanistan\"; \"When States Fail\"; and \"Worst of the Worst: Dealing with Repressive and Rogue Nations\".\n\nThe program supports and sponsors an international group of fellows whose research focuses on all aspects of conflict within states; ethnic/religious/linguistic conflict; peacekeeping and peace building; conflict prevention in general; conflict resolution, especially in divided states; all aspects of state failure and the prevention of state failure.\n"}
{"id": "8159785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8159785", "title": "Public Netbase", "text": "Public Netbase\n\nPublic Netbase was a cultural media initiative, open access internet platform, and advocate for the development of electronic art. The project increasingly came into conflict with the Austrian political establishment during the 1990s. It received awards and recognition by UNESCO.\n\nPublic Netbase was founded by Konrad Becker and Francisco de Sousa Webber in Vienna's Messepalast (later renamed to Museumsquartier) in 1994 as a non-profit internet provider and a platform for the participatory use and critical analyses of information and communication technology. Its parent organization was the \"Institute for New Culture Technologies-t0\", founded in 1993. Most of the Institute's activities after 1994 occurred through Public Netbase, leading to the names and establishment dates being loosely applied, even in the organization's official material. The name of its World Wide Web server, \"t0\", was often appended to either name as well. During the first years of its existence, Public Netbase shared a space in Museumsquartier with the initiative \"Depot – Kunst und Diskussion\". After it relocated to own rooms (also in Museumsquartier), the number of wokshops and instruction courses increased and the program of discursive events was now realized on an almost daily basis.\n\nPublic Netbase focused on aiding the development of electronic art and the impact of the nascent World Wide Web on culture. Its own online presence earned it an award for distinction at the Prix Ars Electronica in 1995. Much of the web space provided through Public Netbase supported Austrian artists, although some hosted projects, such as the Transformation Story Archive, had wider recognition. The physical location in the Museumsquartier was also used for sponsored events, ranging from art symposia to a conference of the Association of Autonomous Astronauts to a \"lecture/performance/event\" by Critical Art Ensemble about biotechnology and a number of conferences/exhibitions such as ROBOTRONIKA (1998) and SYNWORLD (1999).\n\nWhen the right-wing Austrian Freedom Party (FPÖ) and its leader Jörg Haider began to rise in power in Austria, Public Netbase took an increasingly political activist role while facing increasing government pressure. Haider accused Public Netbase of sponsoring child pornography and conflated Christina Göstl's hosted erotic art with a commercial porn site run from the British Virgin Islands during a speech in parliament. Meanwhile, Public Netbase sponsored a \"virtual alternative to Austria's far right government\" that offered Austrian Web Resistance Awards to web sites dedicated to opposing Haider's government.\n\nThe Institute for Applied Autonomy, recipient of an award for distinction in interactive art at the Prix Ars Electronica 2000, dedicated their award to Public Netbase for its political efforts. Another t0-project begun during this period, World-information.org, described as \"an ongoing effort to critically observe and investigate new technologies in a societal, economic and artistic context\" led to involvement with the UNESCO \"Digi-Arts\" program and a series of conventions across Europe.\n\nHowever, the organization's successes were insufficient to stave off problems. Its lease at the Museumsquartier was not renewed after the controversial remodelling period in 2000, and it faced a series of audits and other bureaucratic obstacles. Financial difficulties and an inability to secure a permanent replacement location could not be resolved. Despite significant community support and a reorganization effort in 2005 that shortened its name to Netbase, the City of Vienna stopped all funding effective January 11, 2006, leading to the immediate shut down of the organization.\n\nThe \"Institute for New Culture Technologies-t0\" is still active: Its projects are now mainly conducted through World-Information.Org and World-Information Institute. Since 2002 it has also been organizing Austria's most prominent online \"polling booth\" wahlkabine.at \n\nPublic Netbase organized conferences, exhibitions, websites on a regular basis. Information can be found in the book \"Public Netbase: Non Stop Future\" as well as in an activity report which was compiled in 2004 and is available online.\n\nBehind the rather dadaistic format of an 'intergalactic conference' that refers to an independent community based space program, one can find a critical discussion of the accessibility of new technologies and of current politics of space.\n\nThis series of events which took place in October 1997 critically analyzed topics related to surveillance and control in information societies.\n\nThis project questioning the \"bio-technological revolution\" was developed by the US-based artist collective Critical Art Ensemble in co-operation with Public Netbase. Visitors had the possibility to take actual screening tests for donor DNA and find out \"if they were considered 'fit' or 'unfit' for reproduction in a pan capitalist society.\" Amongst others, Let's Make Baby!, \"an illustrated guide for children that explains how science and medicine create life and why\", was available.\n\nIn the course of this co-operation with The Society of the Unknown (London) a freight container – installed in front of Vienna's opera house – was \"transformed into a psychogeographical feedback device\".\n\nIn this five-day event, which mainly consisted of a symposium and an exhibition, current developments in robotics and automatization were presented and critically analyzed.\n\nPeriod After was \"focusing on the long term development in the Balkan region, related to media, contemporary culture and the potential and real consequences of the ongoing crisis.\" Main part of the project and prerequisite for other activities was the development of a network of media initiatives in South Eastern Europe.\n\nSynworld was one of Public Netbase's most comprehensive events in the 1990s. It focused on relations between popular games and developments of scientific and social relevance. The multifaceted program included lectures, installations, multimedia presentations, game stations and a lounge.\n\nThis is one example out of a field of activities in which Public Netbase engaged continuously: fostering self-organization in the field of independent media initiatives in Austria in order to voice their interests and concerns, and to influence the development of cultural and media policies. Meetings were organized, lists of demands collectively formulated, and attempts werde made to raise awareness on a broader scale.\n\nEuropean Cultural Backbone was \"a coalition of mediacultural institutions and individuals working together to creatively use and develop participatory media for social change\".\n\nThis anti-racist project was conducted in a time when the Austrian federal government formed which for the first time included Jörg Haider's right-wing Freedom Party (FPÖ). The project took place in an underground station in Vienna and included, amongst others, Franz Xaver's media installation \"Fremdsteuerung\", several lectures as well as presentations of initiatives like Period After and the newly formed platform Get to Attack.\n\nThis website represented a discursive context that \"explicitly refused any dialogue with the ÖVP-FPÖ government and instead of that tried to develop its own identity\".\n\nThis website documented the political pressure which Austria's right-wing government exerted on Public Netbase, and the latter's resistance. free.netbase.org served also as a platform to organize and make visible the broad international solidarity with Public Netbase.\n\nInterface Explorer presented current trends in the design of new interfaces and web browsers. Projects by international artists were presented and a forum for the discussion of current trends was provided. The exhibition was co-curated by Johannes Grenzfurthner. One of the highlights was a lecture by Lev Manovich who had just published his book The Language of New Media.\n\nUnder this title, three installations in public space (inside and in front of Vienna's Museumsquartier) were installed, each presenting a media project: a virtual billboard in \"Remote Viewing\", the SMS project \"Text-FM\" and the music project \"Remote Jam\".\n\n\"Sound-politicization\" was one of the new terms which emerged in the course of the protests against the Austrian right-wing government. In free:re:public this belief in the political potential of sound was put into practice in the form of huge youth cultural protest demonstrations that were organized once a year in Vienna.\n\nThis strategic conference examined current relations between media politics, information technologies and political theories of democracy. Central questions for the conference were: \"Has the Internet still its original potential to foster a 'network democracy from below'? Aren't new media already too much compromised by the ever growing state and corporate influence? Can the Internet be reclaimed as a 'digital commons' or has the current crisis already reached a meta media level, beyond propaganda and its mirror counter-campaigns?\"\nPublic Netbase took part in this campaign launched by the \"European Digital Civil Right\" network and staged a protest at Vienna Airport. Passengers were informed that, as a consequence of a new EU directive, they were \"facing the risk of their personal data, including credit card number and religious affiliation, being transferred to the US authorities without their knowledge\".\n\nOpen Cultures comprised a two days conference, workshops and an exhibition. It focused on politics of the infosphere and on inventive approaches to advance a \"free flow of information\".\n\nA few days after the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) had taken place in Geneva, it was critically analyzed in two events organized by Public Netbase.\n\nThe Free Media Camp aimed at raising public awareness about the extremely precarious situation of independent and participatory media initiatives in Vienna. The camp was established in public space at Vienn\"s Karlsplatz and lasted for almost four months. In sum approximately 100 events (discussions, presentations, music events, screenings...) took place. The camp was organized by Public Netbase in co-operation with local cultural and media initiatives: Malmoe, IG Kultur Wien, Radio Orange 94.0 and Public Voice Lab.\n\nThis communication guerilla project, which was developed and conducted in co-operation with 0100101110101101.ORG, criticized the accelerating commercialization of public space. Faked announcements informed that Karlsplatz, one of Vienna's historical squares, was going to be renamed to \"Nikeplatz\" and that as part of this process a 36 meter high monument in form of the Nike-logo would be erected. A two-story glass pavilion located on the square informed about the alleged plans and served as a highly visible sign in public space. The project led to discussions in the arts and cultural scene. At the same time it was sufficiently plausible and spectacular to trigger various forms of citizens' protests and a broad media coverage.\n\nThis ant-racist project was developed in response to the aggravation of Austria's asylum policies as a consequence of the politics of the ÖVP-FPÖ government. Workshops were conducted in which young asylum seekers had the possibility to acquire and further develop media competencies.\n\nS-77CCR critically examined surveillance technologies and played with the idea of providing civil society with its own tools to observe and control public space. \"Top-down surveillance for grassroots initiatives!\" (Brian Holmes) \n\nAfter the artist and researcher Steve Kurtz, founding member of Critical Art Ensemble, had been arrested by the FBI and faced \"an indictment based on laws that severely curtail fundamental rights using the fight against terrorism as a pretext\", Public Netbase organized solidarity- and protest events in Vienna.\n\nFree Bitflows continued the format of major events combining conference, workshops and exhibition. It was an \"exploratory event focusing on the politics of info streams to advance free flows of information\".\n\nIn the year 2005 several Austrian anniversaries coincided: sixty years after the end of World War II, fifty years of Austrian State Treaty and 10 years of Austria's EU membership. 2005 was officially declared a 'jubilee year' and Public Netbase launched a \"range of political and cultural events [...] against the engines of jubilation, [that] will facilitate debates on the various jubilee topics from different emancipatory perspectives.\" The website \"Austria 2005: A protection kit against a year of homeland celebrations\" was a central space for these projects. Public Netbase's tradition of communication guerilla projects was continued in the four communiques of the \"Combat Resistance Cells\" \n\nThis communication guerilla project was developed in response to an anti-piracy campaign which was launched by the German film industry. Amongst others, a faked press conference was organized in Vienna's main shopping street: The launch of a similar anti-piracy campaign in Austria was announced and people accused of offenses like \"having sent copyrighted ringtones to a friend\" were provided to the pillory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41327944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41327944", "title": "Registered Aboriginal Party", "text": "Registered Aboriginal Party\n\nRegistered Aboriginal Parties are recognized Aboriginal people per the Victorian Aboriginal Heritage Act of 2006. Aboriginal people are recognized as the \"primary guardians, keepers and knowledge holders of Aboriginal cultural heritage\". They protect and manage the Aboriginal cultural heritage in Victoria, Australia.\n\nAboriginal peoples apply to the Victorian Aboriginal Heritage Council (VAHC), who determines which applicants will be registered as Registered Aboriginal Parties (RAPs).\n\nThe current registered parties are: \n\n\nAccording to the Department of Premier and Cabinet, \"RAPs have responsibilities under the Act relating to the management of Aboriginal cultural heritage, including: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "29283835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29283835", "title": "Resistência Galega", "text": "Resistência Galega\n\nResistência Galega (), sometimes referred to as REGA, is the term used by a series of left-wing and Galician separatist organizations and individuals to claim attacks in Galicia. The term was first used in 2005 when a manifesto named \"Manifesto da Resistência Galega\" appeared on the Internet. Since then, Resistência Galega has carried out dozens of attacks against political party's offices and banks across Galicia.\n\nResistência Galega is the continuation of several Galician separatist groups active in the 1970s and 80s such as the Loita Armada Revolucionaria, \"Liga Armada Galega\" or \"Exército Guerrilheiro do Povo Galego Ceive\". The organisation was reportedly created by the Assembleia da Mocidade Independentista () in 2005 and it became known to the public with a manifesto published on the Internet on November 20 of that same year. In it, several attacks against political party offices, the Spanish Army, and incidents which occurred during the Prestige oil spill crisis were claimed.\n\nAccording to Spanish police, the group has three active cells with each one consisting of four members. Two of them based in the cities of Santiago and Vigo, and another one moving around Galicia. The group also has around 200 sympathizers and supporters. Its leader is suspected to be Antonio García Matos, former member of the extinct organization \"Exército Guerrilheiro\". Also known as \"Toninho\", he was arrested in November 2005 and was soon released, being on the run since then. He is believed to be hiding in Portugal, from where he orders the organisation's attacks. There have also been reported contacts with ETA. Some activists have reportedly being trained in the mountains in rural Galicia. In October 2010, it was announced that the Spanish High Court would designate Resistência Galega as a terrorist group, comparing the group with other armed organizations in Spain, such as ETA. Following a petrol bomb attack on January 2011, authorities labelled the incident as a \"terrorist attack\" and announced that the High Court would take part in the investigation, as a \"case of terrorism\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36525466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36525466", "title": "Scăieni Phalanstery", "text": "Scăieni Phalanstery\n\nScăieni Phalanstery (Romanian: \"Falansterul de la Scăieni\") was a utopic experimental community (phalanstery) created in 1835–36 by Romanian boyar Teodor Diamant in the town of Scăieni, Prahova County, Wallachia (today part of Boldești-Scăeni Commune) based on the ideas of the French socialist Charles Fourier. The experiment was forcefully closed down by the authorities.\n\nBefore the 1848 Revolutions, Teodor Diamant, a member of the lower nobility, together with other Wallachian intellectuals learnt about the ideas of Charles Fourier, an early French utopian socialist, during Diamant's studies in Paris in the 1830s.\n\nHe presented his social and economic views in three articles that were published in June 1834 in Ion Heliade Rădulescu's \"Curierul Românesc\" magazine.\n\nIn 1835, a year after Diamant returned to Wallachia, he established a phalanstery (an agricultural-industrial community based on Fourier's principles) at the estate in Scăieni owned by boyar Emanoil Bălăceanu. The estate, ridden with debts, had already been put under sequester and the ongoing debt problem prevented the society from acquiring better equipment.\n\nThe first attestation of the society was on March 10, 1835, when Bălăceanu leased the estate to the society, the date being mentioned by Bălăceanu as the start of the phalanstery. The preparations took the rest of the year 1836 and the society began functioning in early 1836.\n\nThe earliest members of the phalanstery were Roma people liberated from slavery by the boyar, but the first recruits moved to Scăieni in January 1836. Another group of ten young people who joined the phalanstery on August 18, 1836.\n\nIt produced both agricultural and handicraft goods, the workday was of only 8 hours, at a time when many peasants worked up to 14–16 hours a day, however there were no days of rest. The produce of the commune was distributed according to the amount of work performed and the level of skill, assessed through vote by the members of the community and according to the quantity of capital contributed.\n\nThe community came into the eyes of the authorities in August 1836 and one of their representatives visited the phalanstery in Scăieni. The report discusses a group of 24 people, wearing odd clothing and who were not very willing to talk about their community. The fact that so many men and women lived in a common household made the authorities presume that it was a brothel. The authorities desired a more thoroughly visit to the community, but Bălăceanu refused.\n\nThe Phalanstery was terminated in 1836 by the authorities which feared that this kind of experiments would encourage communist beliefs in the country, although the official reason was that the community was not registered properly with the authorities.\n\nAlthough the era's documents say that there was no violence at the disbanding of the phalanstery, some romanticized accounts talk about an exile of the founders (according to Ion Ghica) or clashes between the phalanstery members and the authorities (according to Ştefan Greceanu). Nevertheless, Emanoil Bălăceanu was arrested at the order of Hospodar Alexandru Ghica, but it seems that the reason was that he refused to change the name of the Agricultural and Manufactural Society, which sounded too similar to an Agricultural Society of the Hospodar. Another reason was the insolence of asking the Hospodar in a petition dated November 1, 1836 for a modern plough.\n\nFollowing the disbanding of the phalanstery, 14 of the former members of the phalanstery filed a complaint at the judicial divan against Manolache Bălăceanu, accusing him of breach of contract and requesting back the money invested, complaining about the living conditions in the phalanstery.\n\nAfter that, Teodor Diamant continued envisioning the creation of new phalansteries (\"agricultural-industrial colonies\") for the newly liberated slaves in Moldavia in 1841, for this purpose preparing a memorandum to the Administrative Consul of Moldavia, but this was not accepted.\n\nBeing the earliest socialist movement in Romania, during the rule of the Communist Party in Romania, the authorities promoted Diamant as a visionary. In 1958, his work, \"Scrieri economice\" (Economic Writings) was posthumously published at Editura Științifică and in 1979 a movie called \"Falansterul\", inspired from the Scăieni Phalanstery, was released.\n\n"}
{"id": "44417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44417", "title": "Senate", "text": "Senate\n\nA senate is a deliberative assembly, often the upper house or chamber of a bicameral legislature. The name comes from the ancient Roman Senate (Latin: \"Senatus\"), so-called as an assembly of the senior (Latin: \"senex\" meaning \"the elder\" or \"old man\") and therefore allegedly wiser and more experienced members of the society or ruling class. Thus, the literal meaning of the word \"senate\" is Assembly of Elders.\n\nMany countries have an assembly named a \"senate\", composed of \"senators\" who may be elected, appointed, have inherited the title, or gained membership by other methods, depending on the country. Modern senates typically serve to provide a chamber of \"sober second thought\" to consider legislation passed by a lower house, whose members are usually elected. Most senates have asymmetrical duties and powers compared with their respective lower house meaning they have special duties, for example to fill important political positions or to pass special laws. Conversely many senates have limited powers in changing or stopping bills under consideration and efforts to stall or veto a bill may be bypassed by the lower house or another branch of government.\n\nThe modern word \"Senate\" is derived from the [Latin] word \"senātus\" (senate), which comes from \"senex\", “old man”. The members or legislators of a senate are called senators. The Latin word \"senator\" was adopted into English with no change in spelling. Its meaning is derived from a very ancient form of social organization, in which advisory or decision-making powers are reserved for the eldest men. For the same reason, the word \"senate\" is correctly used when referring to any powerful authority characteristically composed by the eldest members of a community, as a deliberative body of a faculty in an institution of higher learning is often called a senate. This form adaptation was used to show the power of those in body and for the decision-making process to be thorough, which could take a long period of time. The original senate was the Roman Senate, which lasted until at least AD 603, although various efforts to revive it were made in Medieval Rome. In the Eastern Roman Empire, the Byzantine Senate continued until the Fourth Crusade, circa 1202–1204.\n\nModern democratic states with bicameral parliamentary systems are sometimes equipped with a senate, often distinguished from an ordinary parallel lower house, known variously as the “House of Representatives”, “House of Commons”, “Chamber of Deputies”, “National Assembly”, “Legislative Assembly”, or \"House of Assembly\", by electoral rules. This may include minimum age required for voters and candidates, proportional or majoritarian or plurality system, and an electoral basis or \"collegium\". Typically, the senate is referred to as the upper house and has a smaller membership than the lower house. In some federal states senates also exist at the subnational level. In the United States all states with the exception of Nebraska (whose legislature is a unicameral body called the “Legislature” but whose members refer to themselves as “senators”) have a state senate. There is also the US Senate at the federal level. \nSimilarly in Argentina, in addition to the Senate at federal level, eight of the country's provinces, Buenos Aires, Catamarca, Corrientes, Entre Ríos, Mendoza, Salta, San Luis (since 1987) and Santa Fe, have bicameral legislatures with a Senate. Córdoba and Tucumán changed to unicameral systems in 2001 and 2003 respectively.\n\nIn Australia and Canada, only the upper house of the federal parliament is known as the Senate. All Australian states other than Queensland have an upper house known as a Legislative council. Several Canadian provinces also once had a Legislative Council, but these have all been abolished, the last being Quebec's Legislative council in 1968.\n\nIn Germany, the last Senate of a State parliament, the Senate of Bavaria, was abolished in 1999.\n\nSenate membership can be determined either through elections or appointments. For example, elections are held every three years for half the membership of the Senate of the Philippines, the term of a senator being six years. In contrast, members of the Canadian Senate are appointed by the Governor General upon the recommendation of the Prime Minister of Canada, holding the office until they resign, are removed, or retire at the mandatory age of 75.\n\nThe terms \"senate\" and \"senator\", however, do not necessarily refer to a second chamber of a legislature:\n\nIn the \"Bundesländer\" (Federated States) of Germany which form a City State (in German: \"Stadtstaat\"), i.e. Berlin (Senate of Berlin), Bremen (Senate of Bremen) and Hamburg (Senate of Hamburg), the senates (\"Senat\" in German) are the executive branch, with senators (\"Senator\") being the holders of ministerial portfolios.\n\nIn a number of cities which were former members of the \"Hanse\" (a medieval confederacy of port cities mainly at the shores of the Baltic Sea and the North Sea), such as Greifswald, Lübeck, Rostock, Stralsund, or Wismar, the city government is also called a Senate.\n\nHowever, in Bavaria, the Senate was a second legislative chamber until its abolition in 1999.\n\n\nThe term Senat (senate) in higher courts of appeal refers to the \"bench\" in its broader metonymy meaning, describing members of the judiciary collectively (usually five judges), often occupied with a particular subject-matter jurisdiction. However, the judges are not called \"senators\". The German term \"Strafsenat\" (literally \"Penal Senate\") in a German court translates to \"Bench of penal-law jurisdiction\" and \"Zivilsenat\" (literally \"Civil Senate\") to \"Bench of private-law jurisdiction\". The Federal Constitutional Court of Germany consists of two senates of eight judges each. In its case the division is mostly of an organizational nature, as a matter of dividing the work load; both senates handle the same kind of constitutional cases. At some points in the past, one senate was considered more conservative and the other more liberal, but that is not the case as of 2011.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "48782694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48782694", "title": "Service governance", "text": "Service governance\n\nService governance is a means of achieving good corporate governance through governing internal corporate services across, and throughout, an enterprise. Even though the initial focus was on IT services, it can include accounting, business administration, and other internal service sectors. Institutionalizing these services enables the monitoring and control of risk, value, and cost. Principle among the issues is the fair funding for each service and the allocation system for scarce services. \n\nInstitutionalizing internal corporate services is the corporate management equivalent a general ledger, only with the line items reflecting the services, not simply departments. The service portfolio allows the governance of services as a means to govern the organization by value.\n\nThe portfolio of services is a list of all internal services within the organization that is available outside their own department. The portfolio describes each service, how it is funded, associated costs, ownership boundaries, along with its current performance and identified conflicts. This portfolio contains all services in the organization, including those which have been outsourced and are now supplied to the organization by third parties.\n\nThe portfolio provides a map of the organization that provides directors with a different way of understanding the dynamics of the organization than that received from financial reports, and, thus, makes it easier for the board to make decisions based on accurate, contemporaneous information.\n\nService governance uses the methods described in the management of value (MoV) to discover the requirements of the organization and to use those on design services, and their measures to deliver those values.\n\nWell established best practice methods are used to design measures and metrics for the organization. These are designed to meet the requirements of the corporate mission, charter, and policy. This ensures that they measure what is required by the organization and, thus, supply accurate real-time information to the board for strategic governance decisions, and to management for operational decisions.\n\nThis also ensures compliance with the requirements of Audit as well as enabling the production of the financial and sustainability report and reporting on good corporate citizenship.\n\nEnterprise service management (ESM) is a means of extending service management across an entire organization, often from IT service management (ITSM). It is a component of service governance.\n\nESM provides an integrated view of core service business processes, often in real-time, using common databases. ESM systems track business resources—people, parts, assets—and the status of customer commitments: service requests, orders, repairs, and SLAs. The applications that make up the system share data across various departments (customer service, technical support, sales, field service, etc.) that use the information for their work. ESM facilitates information flow between departments and coordinates activities with external resources involved in the service business process.\n\nEnterprise service management is also a term used to sometimes generically describe the use of service processes and technologies across an organization. It is meant to be a broader term (like ERP and EAM) in contrast to IT service management which only concerns the management of IT services. \n\nThe term has been used to describe the success that a number of organizations have had in using the \"Best Practice\" advice, found in frameworks such as ITIL, TOGAF, and others, for company-wide service design and operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "32981466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32981466", "title": "Special Security Force Command", "text": "Special Security Force Command\n\nThe Special Security Force Command () is a paramilitary law enforcement body in Bahrain under the command of the Ministry of the Interior. The SSFC is more commonly referred to as the \"Special Security Forces\", the \"Special Forces\", \"Bahrain Special Security Forces (BSSF) or as the \"riot police\" ().\n\nThe Special Security Forces have been accused of human rights abuses, in trying to suppress pro-democratic activity in Bahrain. The SSFC has been at the front line of the Bahrain government's crackdown on pro-democracy protesters during the Bahraini uprising in the Arab Spring.\n\nIn November 2007, Bahrain signed a cooperation agreement with France under which French police officers working in the Compagnies Républicaines de Sécurité have provided training to Bahrain's SSFC. A company of the SSFC were deployed to Afghanistan to provide base security at the United States's Camp Leatherneck.\n"}
{"id": "3412495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3412495", "title": "Taylor Grazing Act of 1934", "text": "Taylor Grazing Act of 1934\n\nThe Taylor Grazing Act of 1934 () is a United States federal law that provides for the regulation of grazing on the public lands (excluding Alaska) to improve rangeland conditions and regulate their use.\n\nThe law initially permitted 80,000,000 ac (32,000,000 ha) of previously unreserved public lands of the United States to be placed into grazing districts to be administered by the Department of the Interior. As amended, the law now sets no limit on the amount of lands in grazing districts. Currently, there are approximately 162,000,000 ac (65,600,000 ha) inside grazing allotments.\n\nThese can be vacant, unappropriated, and unreserved land from public lands, all except for Alaska, national forests, parks, monuments, Indian reservations, railroad grant lands, and revested Coos Bay Wagon Road grant lands. Surrounding land owners may be granted right of passage over these districts. Permits are given for grazing privileges in the districts. Also permits can be given to build fences, reservoirs, and other improvements.\n\nThe permittees are required to pay a fee, and the permit cannot exceed ten years but is renewable. Permits can be revoked because of severe drought or other natural disasters that deplete grazing lands.\n\nDuring the administration of President Herbert Hoover, it became clear that federal regulation of public land use was needed to address the root causes of the Dust Bowl. Since vast portions were used for livestock grazing, the importance of range management loomed large.\n\nThe advocacy of John Francis Deeds, Chief of the Agricultural Division of the Geological Survey and Deputy Director of the Department's Grazing Division, was influential in bringing about the benefits of the Taylor Grazing Act.\n\nCongressman Don B. Colton of Utah introduced a bill to create grazing districts, but the bill failed to pass the US Senate. In 1933, Edward T. Taylor, a Representative from Colorado, reintroduced the Colton bill as the Taylor bill. This bill set up the grazing bureau, or service in the Department of Interior, to administer the range lands. The Grazing Service was merged with the General Land Office in 1946 to form the Bureau of Land Management.\n\nCase studies by Phillip O. Foss on the role of local grazing advisory committees established by the Taylor Grazing Act in regulating the grazing of livestock on federal public lands found that such committees were often dominated by the same ranchers and cattlemen whose activities were supposed to be regulated, raising questions as to whether grazing regulation had been \"captured\" by the regulated interests.\n\nU.S. Congressional amendments to the Grazing Act of 1934.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5152899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5152899", "title": "Tiemoko Garan Kouyaté", "text": "Tiemoko Garan Kouyaté\n\nTiemoko Garan Kouyaté was a West African labour organiser and propagandist.\n\nBorn April 27, 1902 in Ségou in the French Sudan, Kouyaté studied at École William Ponty on the Île de Gorée in Senegal. He worked as a school teacher in the Ivory Coast from 1921 to 1923. He then travelled to Aix-en-Provence for further education, but was expelled in 1926 for spreading communist propaganda. In 1927, he helped found the communist \"Ligue de défense de la race nègre\", editing their paper \"La Race nègre\". When that group split, he helped create the \"Union des travailleurs nègres\" and ran a new paper \"Le Cri des Nègres\". When Kouyaté was thrown out by the group's hardline communists, and purged from the French Communist Party, he began to work with Messali Hadj's Algerian independence group, Etoile Nord-Africaine. Even during his Communist period, Kouyaté communicated with non-communist black activists such as Marcus Garvey and W. E. B. Du Bois, and collaborated regularly with George Padmore.\n\nHe was executed by Nazis at Fort Montluçon in 1942. Historian Philippe Dewitte has argued that Kouyaté may have tried to collaborate with the Nazis before his execution.\n\n"}
{"id": "51676196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51676196", "title": "U.S. national anthem protests (2016–present)", "text": "U.S. national anthem protests (2016–present)\n\nSince August 2016, some U.S. athletes have silently protested against systematic oppression, equality and social injustice, racism and injustice in the criminal system, oppression of people of color in the United States, and to not \"show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color\" during the playing of the U.S. national anthem. Many players since 2017 have started to protest against the attacks of President Donald Trump to those involved in the protest. The demonstrations have generated mixed reactions. Some have described them as politically urgent or patriotic, some other have criticized the fact their attention is attracted to such social problems during sports, while others have called the protests unpatriotic and disrespectful of the U.S. flag, the national anthem, the police, and the military.\n\nThe protests began in the National Football League (NFL) after San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick sat and later knelt during the anthem, before his team's preseason games of 2016. Throughout the following seasons, members of various NFL and other sports teams have engaged in similar silent protests. On September 24, 2017, the NFL protests became more widespread when over 200 players sat or knelt in response to President Donald Trump's calling for owners to \"fire\" the protesting players.\n\nIt is a tradition in the United States to play \"The Star-Spangled Banner\", the national anthem, before sporting events. According to the United States Code, those present should stand at attention with right hand over heart. It's noteworthy, this tradition only acquired widespread practice after the year 2001, while National Football League (NFL) players were not mandated to be on the field for the playing of the national anthem until 2009. In 2016 the NFL stated that \"players are encouraged but not required to stand during the playing of the National Anthem\"; its game operations manual reads that players \"should stand\" for the anthem.\n\nThe people of the United States is divided on the intended meaning of the anthem. Some believe it salutes military and police officers who have died on duty; for others, it honors the United States generally. Between 2012 and 2015, the Department of Defense gave $6.8 million to teams across all major sports in exchange for holding various military and patriotic events at their games, including the performance of the national anthem.\n\nKaepernick and his 49ers teammate Eric Reid say they choose to kneel during the anthem to call attention to the issues of racial inequality and police brutality. \"After hours of careful consideration, and even a visit from Nate Boyer, a retired Green Beret and former NFL player, we came to the conclusion that we should kneel, rather than sit, ... during the anthem as a peaceful protest,\" said Reid. \"We chose to kneel because it's a respectful gesture. I remember thinking our posture was like a flag flown at half-mast to mark a tragedy.\" Some regard kneeling as disrespectful to those who have died or been wounded in service of the United States, such as police officers or military veterans. Torrey Smith, a wide receiver for the Philadelphia Eagles, said in an interview: \"I understand why people are offended by people protesting the National Anthem. My father served 25 years. When he dies, he's going to be wrapped in an American flag. But my dad is also out of the Army, and he drives trucks all over the country, and he's a black man everywhere he goes, and sometimes he has racial incidents still today. That doesn't protect him, just because he served our country. And I think that's important.\"\n\nCriminal justice reform is one of the top issues that NFL players have been supporting in their protests. Kaepernick was initially moved to protest by the deaths of African Americans at the hands of police or while in police custody. These deaths gained prominence through the media and the Black Lives Matter movement in the years immediately preceding the protest. During a post-game interview on August 26, 2016, he stated, \"I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color. To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way. There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder\", adding that he would continue to protest during the anthem until he feels like \"[the United States flag] represents what it's supposed to represent.\"\n\nAfter that interview, Kaepernick pledged to donate the first $1 million of his $11.9 million salary from the 2016–2017 season to different organizations that help communities in need. He pledged to donate $100,000 per month for 10 months to various organizations. Days later, the San Francisco 49ers matched Kaepernick by pledging $1 million to two organizations addressing racial and social inequality. Kaepernick has been following through on his commitment and has donated $900,000 as of September 2017 to groups including Meals on Wheels, United We Dream, Black Veterans for Social Justice and many others. Kaepernick has also held \"Know Your Rights\" camps for young people of color. The camps include legal education from attorneys that give advice on how to interact with police when being detained and lectures from prominent academics on the history of the Civil Rights Movement in the United States. The National Football League Players Association (NFLPA) named Kaepernick the Week One MVP in September 2017 for his charity work related to the protest.\n\nIn September 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump, speaking at a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, said NFL owners should fire players who kneel during the national anthem, and encouraged fans to walk out. Trump tried to use his position at the administration to advise NFL owners to say \"Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired. He's fired!\" Trump called the players' protest \"a total disrespect of our heritage\". He went on to say that new NFL safety rules meant to protect players from concussions are ruining the game for the public. His statement came after new research indicates NFL players are at high risk for chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) due to the likelihood of multiple head injuries.\n\nTrump denied his criticism of the protesters was related to race. \"This has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag,\" he said. In the games immediately following Trump's statements, the protest gained broader participation when over 200 players sat or knelt during the anthem, others linked arms with their teammates or raised fists, and three teams chose to stay in the locker room for the anthem. However, the response was more a reaction to Trump than Kaepernick's original protests of racial injustice. Reasons cited by players, owners, and coaches included supporting freedom of speech and opposing what they considered intimidation by Trump. Others said they took offense to Trump demeaning the integrity of their primarily African American colleagues, when a month earlier he had called the white nationalists who protested in Charlottesville, Virginia, \"Very fine people\". The reaction to Trump's remarks overshadowed other ongoing issues his administration was facing, including failed attempts at healthcare reform, the primary election loss of Trump-backed candidate Luther Strange for the Alabama seat in the U.S. Senate, recovery efforts for Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico and Hurricane Harvey in Houston, and relations with North Korea over their nuclear and missile testing.\n\nMany players beyond the 2017 season have knelt or raised fists in protest against the policies of President Donald Trump.\n\nIn May 2018 on an in interview President Donald Trump went as far to say \"You have to stand proudly for the national anthem, or you shouldn’t be playing, you shouldn’t be there. Maybe you shouldn’t be in the country\". He went from his previous opinion that these NFL players should be fired to that they should \"maybe\" be deported. Trump applauded the new policy that NFL players must either stand for the anthem or stay back in the locker room, but felt that this policy was not strict enough.  Trump even wanted players to not be able to express political views even when off the field. \n\nKaepernick began sitting during the national anthem at the start of the 2016 NFL preseason. His actions went unnoticed for two weeks before he was questioned by the media. In the 49ers' final 2016 preseason game on September 1, 2016, after talking to Boyer, Kaepernick opted to kneel during the U.S. national anthem rather than sit as he did in their previous games. He explained his decision to switch was an attempt to show more respect to former and current U.S. military members while still protesting during the anthem. Eric Reid joined Kaepernick in kneeling during the national anthem during the final preseason game. Seattle Seahawks player Jeremy Lane also did not stand for the anthem during his final preseason game the same day, stating, \"It's something I plan to keep on doing until justice is being served.\"\n\nIn Week 1, eleven NFL players joined Kaepernick's protests. Denver Broncos player Brandon Marshall knelt during the national anthem prior to the start of the Kickoff game, which was broadcast on NBC. The act of kneeling as protest has been referred to as \"taking a knee\". Kaepernick and Marshall were teammates at the University of Nevada. On September 11, Kansas City Chiefs player Marcus Peters raised his fist while the rest of the team interlocked their arms showing solidarity. Two members of the New England Patriots, Devin McCourty and Martellus Bennett, raised their fists on \"Sunday Night Football\". The entire Seattle Seahawks team stood and interlocked arms. Jelani Jenkins, Arian Foster, Kenny Stills, and Michael Thomas of the Miami Dolphins all knelt during the National Anthem. At the same time, a group of Jacksonville Jaguars players, led by cornerback Prince Amukamara, initially planned to join the protest but chose not to do so after photographs of Kaepernick wearing socks with a crude anti-police message during training camp were made public.\n\nOn November 13, 2016, 5 days after Donald Trump was elected President, Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide-receiver Mike Evans decided to sit during the national anthem. According to \"Sports Illustrated\", Evans said, \"If this happens, then America's not right right now. I said this a long time ago. When he ran, I thought it was a joke, and the joke continues. I'm not a political person that much, but I got common sense. And I know when something's not right.\" However, his protest began the day following Veterans Day, so he received criticism. He quickly changed his method of protesting and joined his teammates during the following game against the Kansas City Chiefs. He apologized to veterans and other members of the military for his actions – citing that the timing of his protest was poor. \"On the field, I'm going to continue to do what I do – play hard. I'm playing hard because I've got this right – freedom, because of the vets. I'm going to reach out to organizations, organizations that I feel are doing the best job to help the minority ... women, LGBT, African Americans, Latinos, people that are in fear of Donald Trump and his presidency.\"\n\nCleveland Browns tight end Seth DeValve became the first white football player to kneel or sit during the anthem on the team's August 21, 2017 preseason game against the New York Giants. \n\nIn Week 3 of the season the majority of games were played two days after Trump made his statements. The protest gained broader participation when over 200 players sat or knelt during the anthem. Many players, coaches and NFL teams protested and/or issued statements expressing dismay with Trump's comments:\n\nOn October 16, 2017 Colin Kaepernick filed a grievance for collusion against NFL owners. Instead of using the NFLPA, Kaepernick hired Mark Geragos to be his attorney. As of August 31, 2018, an arbitrator ruled that there is sufficient evidence that the case can continue.\n\nIn Week 8 at Seattle, the majority of the Texans players knelt during the anthem after Houston owner Bob McNair had commented about having the \"inmates running the prison\" during a league owner meeting regarding the ongoing protest. McNair had apologized, stating that he was not referring to the players, but rather to the \"relationship between the league office and team owners\". It was the first time a Texans player had knelt during the anthem.\n\nOn May 23, 2018, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and all NFL team owners except for two owners that abstained from voting in a show of hand voting process, approved a new policy requiring all players to stand during the national anthem or be given the option to stay in the locker room during the national anthem. The vote took place without consulting the NFLPA. Any players from all NFL teams who protest the anthem while on the field will become subject to discipline from the league. In addition, the teams as a whole will be subject to punishment and other forms of discipline from the NFL as a result.\n\nIn disagreement with the policy, several players on the Super Bowl champion Philadelphia Eagles indicated they would decline an invitation from Trump to visit the White House on June 5, leading the President to rescind the offer the day before the event. The Eagles were the second sports franchise that Trump had uninvited, joining the 2017 National Basketball Association (NBA) champion Golden State Warriors, whose visit was cancelled after several players publicly declined to attend.\n\nOn July 19, the NFL and the players association issued a joint statement that \"no rules relating to the anthem will be issued for the next several weeks.\" This came after the Associated Press had reported earlier in the day that Miami team rules stated that improper anthem conduct could result in a player suspension of up to four games, more than some players receive for violating the league's domestic violence policy. The following day, Trump tweeted that players should be suspended for one game the first time kneeling, and for the entire season without pay after a second offense.\n\nSeattle Reign FC and U.S. women's national soccer team player Megan Rapinoe knelt during the national anthem in a game on September 5, 2016, explaining that her decision was a \"nod to Kaepernick and everything that he's standing for right now\". In a subsequent match at the Washington Spirit, Spirit owner Bill Lynch – anticipating Rapinoe's protest – moved the national anthem's performance without warning or notice to occur before the players' appearances on the pitch. Jeff Plush, the league's commissioner, was present at the game and told reporters that he was unaware of Lynch's plans and disagreed with the act of moving the anthem's performance. The Spirit's players issued a joint statement also disagreeing with Lynch's decision to move the anthem without first consulting the team's players or coaches.\n\nAs a member of the U.S. women's national soccer team, Rapinoe also knelt before an international friendly match against Thailand on September 16, despite public statements of disagreement with her protest methods issued before the match by the U.S. Soccer Federation and her coach Jill Ellis. U.S. Soccer proceeded to pass a policy that now requires all of its players to stand \"respectfully\" during the national anthem making it the first American sports league or governing body to do so.\n\nMajor League Soccer (MLS) have released a statement in September 2017 regarding any potential protests \"The march of players, officials and children into our stadiums and singing of the anthem has been a pre-match tradition since our first game in 1996. The National Anthem provides our clubs and fans an important and time-honored opportunity to salute our country and stand up for its principles -- whether in the United States or in Canada.\" MLS to date, has yet to encounter national anthem protests.\n\nThe protest had supporters outside the U.S. as well: In an October 2017 match against Schalke 04, players and staff of German football club Hertha BSC took the knee in solidarity. Herta BSC has a few American players on their roster.\n\nOn September 7, 2016, three volleyball players from West Virginia Tech knelt during the national anthem.\n\nOn October 1, at East Carolina University, about 19 members of the band knelt, while about another two held the American flag during the national anthem at the beginning of the football game against the University of Central Florida. There have been almost no such incidents involving college football players, for the simple reason that college players and coaches are typically in the locker room when the anthem is played. There has been at least one exception to the rule, however. During a September 2016 away game at Northwestern, where players are traditionally on the field during the anthem, three Nebraska players knelt on the sideline. The NCAA football rulebook does not address the issue of pregame ceremonies (patriotic or otherwise) at all, except to say that team captains must be present for a coin toss three minutes before the first-half kickoff.\n\nCollege of the Ozarks president Jerry Davis announced in September 2017 that his college's teams would refuse to play any team whose players knelt during the anthem. In response, the NAIA chose to move its Division II men's basketball champion game away from College of the Ozarks' Keeter Gymnasium (where the championship game had been held since 2000) to Sanford Pentagon, South Dakota.\n\nOn September 2, 2016, a football player at Brunswick High School in Ohio knelt during the national anthem after he heard his teammates saying \"nigger\". After his protest, the player received racial threats. On September 9, high school players across the country knelt during the national anthem. On September 23, four players from Withrow High School, three black and one white, in Cincinnati knelt during the national anthem before their football game.\n\nIn September 2017, Principal Waylon Bates of Parkway High School in Louisiana referred to the national anthem protests as a \"disruption\" and threatened to kick any player out of the football team if he knelt during the national anthem. Two black students on the Victory & Praise Christian Academy football team protested during the anthem. Immediately after the anthem concluded, their coach removed them from the team, having them take off their uniforms on the sidelines.\n\nOn September 23, 2017, Bruce Maxwell of the Oakland Athletics knelt during the national anthem, becoming the first MLB player to join the protest. His team backed him up by saying, \"The Oakland A's pride ourselves on being inclusive. We respect and support all of our players' constitutional rights and freedom of expression.\" Maxwell received a standing ovation from A's fans before his first at-bat following his protest.\n\nThe MLB has no policy regarding the national anthem other than it has to be played before games.\n\nOn September 24, 2017, prior to Game 1 of the 2017 WNBA Finals, players from the Los Angeles Sparks chose to stay in the locker room during the national anthem, while members of the Minnesota Lynx locked arms on the court.\n\nThe NBA has a policy that requires players to stand up during the national anthem in their CBA, however many prominent players have expressed support for the NFL protests on social media or in interviews.\n\nOn October 7, 2017, J. T. Brown of the Tampa Bay Lightning raised his fist while standing on the bench during the national anthem. He had also done the same in a preseason game, in an attempt to \"bring awareness to police brutality against minorities and racial inequality\". He stated that he had \"received death threats\" after the protest.\n\nIn September 2016, President Barack Obama stated that Kaepernick was \"exercising his constitutional right\" to protest. He went on: \"I don't doubt his sincerity. I think he cares about some real, legitimate issues that have to be talked about. If nothing else, he's generated more conversation about issues that have to be talked about.\"\n\nSupreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg criticized the protest as \"dumb and disrespectful\", stating that athletes have the right to protest \"if they want to be stupid\". The Supreme Court later issued a statement from Ginsburg stating that her comments were \"inappropriately dismissive and harsh. I should have declined to respond.\"\n\nOn September 25, 2017, U.S. Representative Sheila Jackson Lee knelt on the floor of the House of Representatives. Fellow congressman Mark Pocan knelt on the floor of the House the next day.\n\nOn September 26, 2017, Louisiana Lt. Gov. Billy Nungesser told The Times-Picayune that he would not be attending the New Orleans Saints game against the Miami Dolphins, which was going to be taking place in London. Although he was going to be in London during the time of the game, he told the newspaper that he would not attend because he was \"disappointed in the NFL.\" He added that \"it is disgraceful that anybody would use that as a time to protest.\"\n\nOn October 8, 2017, Vice President Mike Pence left a game between the NFL's Indianapolis Colts and the San Francisco 49ers, members of which had knelt during the anthem, \"because President Trump and I will not dignify any event that disrespects our soldiers, our Flag, or our National Anthem.\"\n\nOklahoma senator James Lankford said Russian internet trolls, seeking to polarize Americans, helped fuel a debate.\n\nWe watched, even this weekend, the Russians and their troll farms, their internet folks, start hashtagging out #TakeAKnee and also hashtagging out #BoycottNFL,\" he said during a hearing on threats faced by the United States. \"They were taking both sides of the argument this weekend ... to try to raise the noise level of America and make a big issue seem like an even bigger issue as they are trying to push divisiveness in this country.\"\n\nMajor sports sponsors Nike, Under Armour, and Ford all issued statements in support of athletes' freedom of expression after Trump's comments regarding the NFL. Nike's statement read, \"Nike supports athletes and their right to freedom of expression on issues that are of great importance to our society.\" In September 2016, after Brandon Marshall knelt during the national anthem, Century Link and Air Academy Federal Credit Union dropped him as a paid sponsor. Radio station WFAY dropped a broadcast of an East Carolina University football game on the station after the marching band took part in the protest, calling it an insult to the U.S. Armed Forces. John Schnatter of sponsor Papa John's Pizza blamed the protests for a drop in sales and a 24% fall in stock during 2017, saying that the \"controversy is polarizing the customer, polarizing the country\". Later that day, the company announced that the NFL shield or \"official sponsor\" designation on Papa John's commercials and advertising would be removed. In December 2017 Sanderson Farms CEO questioned whether the NFL protests were to blame for falling chicken wing prices.\n\nAfter his first kneel in 2016, Nike was well on its way to sever its four year long partnership with NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick. Nigel Powell, chief communications executive of Nike, convinced the company to maintain their partnership with Kaepernick which eventually led to the launch of the politically and socially controversial advertisement released in 2018, \"Nike - Dream Crazy\", with Kaepernick as their face of the campaign. Despite the prevalent backlash on social media of people who criticized Kaepernick's actions burning and cutting up their Nike brand clothing, Nike sales increased by 31% within five days after the advertisement was released. This campaign did result in a temporary drop of 2.2% in stock price though.\n\nThroughout the remainder of the 2016 season, Kaepernick received public backlash for his protest, with an anonymous NFL executive calling Kaepernick \"a traitor\". He also stated that he received death threats.\n\nSportscaster Bob Costas offered support for Kaepernick stating, \"Patriotism comes in many forms and what has happened is it's been conflated with a bumper-style kind of flag-waving and with the military only so that people cannot see that in his own way Colin Kaepernick, however imperfectly, is doing a patriotic thing.\"\n\nTrent Dilfer criticized Kaepernick. \"The big thing that hit me through all this was this is a backup quarterback whose job is to be quiet, and sit in the shadows and get the starter ready to play Week 1,\" Dilfer said on \"Sunday NFL Countdown\". \"Yet he chose a time where all of a sudden he became the center of attention. And it has disrupted that organization. It has caused friction. And it's torn at the fabric of the team.\"\n\nStemming from the Kaepernick controversy, before the beginning of the 2016 World Cup of Hockey tournament in Toronto, Canada, Team USA coach John Tortorella told in an interview that if any one of his players were to sit out during the anthem, they would sit on the bench for the entire duration of the game.\n\nThe September 2016 police shootings of Terence Crutcher and Keith Lamont Scott bolstered support for his protest. Kaepernick said of the Terence Crutcher shooting, \"this is a perfect example of what this is about.\" Boxer Floyd Mayweather, criticized Kaepernick, stating, \"You know, a lot of times, we get stuck, and we are followers. When you hear one person say 'black lives matter' or 'blue lives matter,' all lives matter.\" Adding moments later, \"With me being a fighter, and my hands being registered, if I hit a guy for breaking in my house, or breaking in my car, it's gonna cost me more money, so I gotta work smarter, not harder. I'm gonna call the cops.\"\n\nDiscussion continued throughout August 2017. Baseball Hall of Famer Hank Aaron said, \"I think he's getting a raw deal\" from the NFL. That same month, Pro Football Hall of Famer and longtime civil rights activist Jim Brown, who a year earlier supported Kaepernick \"100 percent\", now criticized him, suggesting Kaepernick ought to decide whether to be an athlete or an activist. \"I'm an American,\" said Brown. \"I don't desecrate my flag and my national anthem. … This is my country, and I'll work out the problems, but I'll do it in an intelligent manner.\"\n\nJim Harbaugh, Kaepernick's former coach, penned a strong statement of support for him as part of \"Time\"s \"100 Most Influential People\" series. Harbaugh wrote, \"His willingness to take a position at personal cost is now part of our American story. How lucky for us all and for our country to have among our citizens someone as remarkable as Colin Kaepernick.\"\n\nNASCAR team owners Richard Petty and Richard Childress have supported Trump and said that they would fire drivers and employees who would not stand for the national anthem. Petty said, \"Anybody that don't stand up for the anthem ought to be out of the country. Period.\" Childress said, \"It'll get you a ride on a Greyhound bus\" if anyone on his team protested the anthem. Driver Dale Earnhardt Jr., however, expressed support for the peaceful protests, quoting President John F. Kennedy, \"Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.\" NASCAR released a statement on September 25 in response to the protests that said, \"Sports are a unifying influence in our society, bringing people of differing backgrounds and beliefs together. Our respect for the national anthem has always been a hallmark of our pre-race events. Thanks to the sacrifices of many, we live in a country of unparalleled freedoms and countless liberties, including the right to peacefully express one's opinion.\"\n\nJemele Hill, an ESPN anchor who called Trump a \"white supremacist\" in a series of tweets earlier in the month, tweeted, \"Just so we're clear: the president's comments will only incite more player protests, not quell them.\" following Trump's initial response to the protests. Hill was later put on a two-week suspension for \"a second violation of our social media guidelines\", after Hill suggested people direct their disagreements towards advertisers of Dallas Cowboys owner, Jerry Jones, after Jones stated he would bench any player who protested the national anthem on October 9, 2017.\n\nOn September 25, 2017, Bill Russell posted a photo to Twitter while kneeling and wearing his Presidential Medal of Freedom. On September 26, 2017, Joey Odoms, the national anthem singer for the home games of the Ravens, resigned citing the \"tone/actions of a large number of NFL fans in the midst of our country's cultural crisis\".\n\nFormer Chicago Bears coach Mike Ditka commented, \"If you don't respect our country, then you shouldn't be in this country playing football…So I would say, adios.\" He added that he was \"not condemning anybody or criticizing anybody\" in his remarks. According to Ditka, \"there has been no oppression in the last 100 years that I know of.\"\n\nStevie Wonder knelt during the 2017 Global Citizen Festival on September 23, saying \"Tonight, I'm taking a knee for America\".\n\nEddie Vedder, Pharrell Williams, Dave Matthews, John Legend and Roger Waters knelt to support the protests during concerts on September 24. The same day Sonequa Martin-Green posted in her Instagram account a picture of several members from \"\"s cast alongside producer Akiva Goldsman and herself kneeling. Shonda Rhimes posted a photo kneeling with the cast of \"Grey's Anatomy\".\n\n\"The X-Files\" actors Gillian Anderson and David Duchovny posted a photo on Twitter of themselves kneeling with arms locked on September 26.\n\nActor Damien Leake had been making a similar protest for almost 50 years, since the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.. When asked to comment:\nOn October 11 2018 Colin Kaepernick was awarded the W.E.B. Du Bois Medal at Harvard University during the Hutchins Center Honors sponsored by the Hutchins Center for African & African American Research. The award is going to be given for his \"significant contributions and African-American history and culture\", and for his support \"for intercultural understanding and human rights in an increasingly global and interconnected world\". Some might think that the award is significant because it shows what he has sacrificed for starting and upholding the national anthem protest, and gives credibility to him as an activist based on the criteria for the award and past honorees such as Muhammad Ali.\n\n"}
{"id": "2595649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2595649", "title": "Weigh house", "text": "Weigh house\n\nA weigh house or weighing house is a public building at or within which goods are weighed. Most of these buildings were built before 1800, prior to the establishment of international standards for weights. As public control of the weight of goods was very important, they were run by local authorities who would also use them for the levying of taxes on goods transported through or sold within the city. Therefore, weigh houses would often be near a market square or town centre.\n\nBetween 1550 and about 1690 people accused of witchcraft were at times brought to a weigh house in order to be subjected to a \"witch test\" to \"prove\" their innocence for payment (as nobody was deemed to be a witch after this test). If a person was found to be lighter than a set weight, he or she was deemed guilty. This is similar to the use of a ducking stool.\n\nWeigh houses were especially common in the Netherlands, Germany, where they are called \"waag\" and \"waage\" respectively (both meaning \"scale\") and Poland (\"waga miejska\", \"town/city scales\", as in Cracow and Posen). Outside the Netherlands and Germany the public weighing usually didn't take place in a special building, but in a town hall, guild hall, courthouse, or the like.\n\nOne of the very few remaining weigh houses still in use is the one in Alkmaar, Netherlands, where the Cheese Market still includes the weighing of the cheeses as a demonstration for tourists.\n\nThe Amsterdam Waag is a remnant of the former city walls in Amsterdam. Constructed in 1488, it was originally one of the city gates, the Sint Anthoniespoort. When the city expanded, the Nieuwmarkt (\"new market\") was created around it and the weighing scales for the market were placed in the former gate. Today the building houses the Waag Society, an ICT research foundation working in the social and cultural domain, and there is a café/restaurant on the ground floor.\n\nThe building carries the oldest plaque in Amsterdam, which reads \"On 28 April 1488 the first stone of this gate was laid\".\n\nThe city walls that the Sint Anthoniespoort was part of were built in the years 1481-1494. These walls have now completely disappeared and the only remnants are this gate, the lower part of another gate, the Regulierspoort (now the Munttoren) and one defence tower, the Schreierstoren. When in the late 16th century the city expanded the wall was torn down and the gate lost its function. The defensive canal and palissade around the gate was turned into a market square. In the process the ground level was raised, so the building is no longer quite as high as it used to be. For the new weighing function the original front and rear gate were connected with a roof.\n\nThe upper floors housed four guilds for some time, namely those of the smiths, painters, masons and surgeons. Each guild had its own entrance tower. In 1632 Rembrandt van Rijn was commissioned to paint the surgeons at work, and the resulting \"The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp\" made his reputation. In 1691 a theatrum anatomicum was added, which became famous for admitting (paying) members of the public to witness human dissections.\n\nAfter the guilds were dissolved around 1795 the building served numerous purposes, later housing a fire brigade and two museums (including the Jewish Historical Museum) before it was handed over to a foundation in 1990. This had plans to partly destroy the building and build an addition designed by Philippe Starck, but the foundation went bankrupt before any plans were carried out. The neighbourhood and monument lovers convinced the Amsterdam city council that the building deserved a better fate. It was decided to restore it in keeping with its medieval background. Waag Society became the principal tenant in 1996.\n\nA number of other Dutch towns also have a weigh house, including Delft, Deventer (with museum), Edam, Enkhuizen, Gouda, Haarlem, Hoorn, Langweer, Leeuwarden, Leiden, Nijmegen, Oudewater (\"Heksenwaag\" = witches' weighing house), Vlaardingen and Zaltbommel. Pieter Post, a Golden Age architect, had his weigh house design chosen for two cities; Gouda, and Leiden:\nSome cities in Belgium still have a \"Stadswaag\", like Kortrijk.\n\nCities in Germany, where such a building (in German called \"Stadtwaage\") still exists, are (among others):\nBraunschweig, Bremen (Bremen Weigh House), Dorsten, Emmerich am Rhein, Kempten, Leipzig, Michelstadt, Osnabrück and Stralsund.\n\nWeigh houses were formerly found in many market towns of Ireland; a notable surviving example is in Gort, County Galway, built in the mid- to late 18th century.\n\nCities in Poland such as Kraków, Poznań, Bochnia and Nysa had or have historical weigh houses.\n\n"}
{"id": "40145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40145", "title": "Witenagemot", "text": "Witenagemot\n\nThe Witenaġemot (Old English \"witena ġemōt\", , modern English \"meeting of wise men\"), also known as the Witan (more properly the title of its members) was a political institution in Anglo-Saxon England which operated from before the 7th century until the 11th century. The Witenagemot was an assembly of the ruling class whose primary function was to advise the king and whose membership was composed of the most important noblemen in England, both ecclesiastic and secular. The institution is thought to represent an aristocratic development of the ancient Germanic general assemblies, or folkmoots. In England, by the 7th century, these ancient folkmoots had developed into convocations of the land's most powerful and important people, including ealdormen, thegns, and senior clergy, to discuss matters of both national and local significance.\n\nThe terms 'Witan' and 'Witenagemot' are increasingly avoided by modern historians, although few would go as far as Geoffrey Hindley, who described 'witenagemot' as an \"essentially Victorian\" coinage. \"The Blackwell Encyclopaedia of Anglo-Saxon England\" prefers 'King's Council', but adds that it was known in Old English as the 'witan'. John Maddicott regarded the word witan with suspicion, even though it is used in sources such as the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\":\nFor these reasons, in his study of the origins of the English parliament, he generally preferred the more neutral word 'assembly'. He described 'witena gemot' as a rare eleventh century usage, with only nine pre-Conquest examples, mainly in the crisis of 1051-52. Patrick Wormald was also sceptical, describing 'witena-gemot' as \"a word always rare and unattested before 1035\".\n\nThe exact nature of the witenagemot remains \"essentially vague, fluctuating, and incoherent.\" Nevertheless, there is much direct evidence of the witan's various activities. Knowledge about who made up the witan and who was present at their meetings is provided mainly by lists of witnesses to charters, or grants of land, which were concocted at the witenagemots. Reference to the witan's \"acta\" or official decisions are also preserved in law codes.\n\nThe first recorded act of a witenagemot was the law code issued by King Æthelberht of Kent ca. A.D. 600, the earliest document which survives in sustained Old English prose; however, the witan was certainly in existence long before this time. Altogether, about 2000 charters and 40 law codes survive which attest to the workings of the various meetings of the witan, of which there are around 300 recorded.\n\nThese documents clearly indicate that the witan was composed of the nation's highest echelon of both ecclesiastical and secular officers. Present on the ecclesiastical side were archbishops, bishops, and abbots, and occasionally also abbesses and priests; on the secular side ealdormen (or \"eorls\" in the latter centuries) and thegns. Members of the royal family were also present, and the king presided over the entire body.\n\nIn his investigation into Anglo-Saxon institutions, H. M. Chadwick wrote: I have not thought it necessary to discuss at length the nature of the powers possessed by the council [i.e. the witenagemot], for .. there can be little hope of arriving at any definite conclusions on this subject. Indeed it seems at least doubtful whether the functions of the council were ever properly defined.\n\nSimilarly, in his study of the witenagemots, Felix Liebermann stated that \"its functions and power differ .. considerably at various times.\" Still, he was able to give a relatively detailed description of its constitution:From the time of Ine the Witan was composed of the aristocratic \"élite\" created by monarchy. The king, generally indeed advised by the existing nobility, conferred prelatures and ealdormanries, with both of which a seat in the national assembly [i.e. the witenagemot] was legally or practically connected. Members of the royal family, ladies not excepted, were present at many gemots. The king alone raised a man to the position of a gesith, a thane, a provincial or local reeve, a court officer or a royal chaplain, one of which titles seems to have been the indispensable qualification for a vote. .. as no periodicity of the assembly was fixed, the king determined when and where it was to meet, for the most part choosing places under his immediate control; he presided, spoke first, put his questions, proposed his bills of proposed laws, and finally dismissed the witan.\n\nThe witan was noted by contemporary sources as having the singular power to \"ceosan to cyninge\", 'to choose the king' from amongst the (extended) royal family. Nevertheless, at least until the 11th century, royal succession generally followed the \"ordinary system of primogeniture.\" The historian Chadwick interpreted these facts as proof that the so-called election of the king by the witan merely amounted to formal recognition of the deceased king's natural successor. But Liebermann was generally less willing than Chadwick to see the witan's significance as buried under the weight of the royal prerogative:The influence of the king, or at least of kingship, on the constitution of the assembly seems, therefore, to have been immense. But on the other hand he (the king) was elected by the witan .. He could not depose the prelates or ealdormen, who held their office for life, nor indeed the hereditary thanes. .. At any rate, the king had to get on with the highest statesmen appointed by his predecessor, though possibly disliked by him, until death made a post vacant that he could fill with a relation or a favourite, not, however, without having a certain regard to the wishes of the aristocracy.\n\nLiebermann's more subtle position seems to be vindicated by testimony from abbot Ælfric of Eynsham, the leading homilist of the late 10th century, who wrote:No man can make himself king, but the people has the choice to choose as king whom they please; but after he is consecrated as king, he then has dominion over the people, and they cannot shake his yoke off their necks.\n\nIn addition to having a role in the 'election' of English Kings, it is often held that the witenagemots had the power to depose an unpopular king. However, there are only two occasions when this probably happened, in 757 and 774 with the depositions of kings Sigeberht of Wessex and Alhred of Northumbria respectively.\n\nThe witan's powers are illustrated by the following event. In the year 1013 King Æthelred II (aka Athelred the Unready) fled the country from Sweyn Forkbeard, who then had the witan proclaim him king. Within a few weeks, however, Sweyn died and Æthelred was called back to England by the witan. According to the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", the witan would only receive him back under the condition that he promise to rule better than he had. Æthelred did so, and was reinstated as King of England. His nickname of the 'Unræd' or 'Unready' means ill-advised, indicating that contemporaries regarded those who sat in the witan as in part responsible for the failure of his reign.\n\nThough in general the witan were recognized as the king's closest advisors and policy-makers, various witan also operated in other capacities; there are mentions of \"þeodwitan\", 'people's witan', \"Angolcynnes witan\", 'England's witan', and an Anglo-Saxon and Archbishop of York, Wulfstan II, wrote that \"it is incumbent on bishops, that venerable witan always travel with them, and dwell with them, at least of the priesthood; and that they may consult with them .. and who may be their counsellors at every time.\" \n\nEven when summoned explicitly by kings, the witenagemots did not represent the political will of all England: before the unification of England in the 10th century, separate witenagemots were convened by the Kings of Essex, Kent, Mercia, Northumbria, Sussex and Wessex. Indeed, even after Wessex became the dominant power in England, supplanting the other kingdoms, local witan continued to meet until as late as 1067. In his work on Alfred the Great, historian David Sturdy argues that the witan did not embody modern notions of a 'national institution' or a 'democratic' body:Victorian notions of a national 'witan' are crazy dreams without foundation, myths of a 'democratic parliament' that never was.\n\nWitan would advise on the administration and organization of the kingdom, dealing with issues such as taxation, jurisprudence and both internal and external security. The witenagemot was in many ways different from the future institution of the Parliament of England, it had substantially different powers and some major limitations, such as a lack of a fixed procedure, schedule, or meeting place. The witan could seek to prevent autocracy and carry on government during interregnums, but ultimately the witenagemot answered to the king. It only assembled when he summoned it, and its assembling without his approval could be considered treason. The witenagemot was more an advisory council. In some cases, weak kings (such as Ethelred the Unready) were dependent on the witenagemot, while others used it as simply a group of advisers.\n\nThough no set date was ever in use, witenagemots met at least once a year, and commonly more often. There was no single seat of a witenagemot, it being held where the king was, who typically had no single fixed court either. Witenagemots are known to have met in at least 116 locations, including Amesbury, Calne, Cheddar, Gloucester, London and Winchester. The meeting places were often on royal estates, but some witenagemots were convened in the open at prominent rocks, hills, meadows and famous trees.\n\nThis arrangement ended when the Normans under Duke of Normandy, William the Conqurer invaded in 1066, to contest his claim to the throne of England after the death of King Edward the Confessor and his replacing the witenagemot with the \"curia regis\", or king's court. However, in a sign of the witenagemot's enduring legacy, the \"curia regis\" continued to be dubbed a \"witan\" by chroniclers until as late as the 12th century.\n\nThe \"Saxon myth\", which claimed that the old Saxon Witan originated in a representative assembly of English landholders, before being subsequently disbanded by the Norman invaders before reappearing as the Parliament of England, found believers of that historical theory across the Thirteen Colonies in North America, by Americans including Thomas Jefferson and Jonathan Mayhew, in the years prior to the American Revolution (1775-1783).\n\nIt is generally accepted that the English witenagemot had its origins in ancient Germanic assemblies summoned to witness royal grants of land. Yet whatever their status in the 4th and 5th centuries, the nature of these assemblies in England was irrevocably changed when Christianity was introduced, circa A.D.600. Hereafter, church and state were \"inseparably intertwined,\" and this was reflected in the strong ecclesiastical element in the witan's membership and concerns; records of decisions made by witan encompass ecclesiastical and secular jurisdictions alike.\n\n\n\n"}
