{"id": "1406022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406022", "title": "1986 California Proposition 64", "text": "1986 California Proposition 64\n\nProposition 64 was a proposition in the state of California on the November 4, 1986 ballot. It was an initiative statute that would have restored Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) to the list of communicable diseases. The measure was defeated by a margin of 71% to 29%.\n\nActivists associated with Lyndon LaRouche formed the \"Prevent AIDS Now Initiative Committee\" (PANIC) to place what became \"Proposition 64\" on the California state ballot. The initiative was written by Khushro Ghandhi. who was also the president of PANIC. Brian Lantz was vice-president and Ted Andromidas was treasurer\n\nProponents argued that the measures would merely return AIDS to the list of communicable diseases under the public health laws. The ballot argument in favor of the proposition were pathologist John Grauerholz, psychiatrist Nancy T. Mullan, and former Centers for Disease Control advisor Gus S. Sermos. Congressman William E. Dannemeyer was also a proponent.\n\nOpponents characterized it as an effort to force HIV-positive individuals out of their jobs and into quarantine. Said Helen Miramontes, R.N., president of the California Nurses Association:\nHealth professionals believe that Proposition 64 would seriously hurt their ability to treat and find a cure for AIDS. Current medical efforts based on years of research will be undermined by the fear generated by this irrational proposition.\nThe ballot argument against the measure was signed by Gladden V. Elliott, president of the California Medical Association, Congressman Ed Zschau, and Senator Alan Cranston.\nThe submitted supporting argument included claims that AIDS could be transmitted by insects, respiratory means and casual contact. These claims were challenged in a suit by California Secretary of State March Fong Eu, based on the argument that they had no scientific support.\n\nIn 1988, the text of Proposition 64 was re-introduced in California by the \"Prevent AIDS Now In California\" (also PANIC) committee and appeared on the June 1988 ballot as \"Proposition 69.\" It was also defeated.\n\nThe gathering of signatures to qualify the initiative was handled in part by a paid contractor. The fee was paid with a contribution by the Caucus Distributors Inc, a key part of the LaRouche movement. The political consultant who was hired by the LaRouche organization to collect signatures for the PANIC initiative was convicted of fraud in October 1988. The consultant, Stanley I. Dale, used out-of-state signature-collectors and claimed they were California residents.\nMarch Fong Eu, Secretary of State of California, notified the committee that her office had received numerous complaints of harassment by signature gatherers, including \"outrageous verbal abuse for mere failure to sign petitions\". She warned them that further complaints would result in legal action.\n\nLaRouche activists accused official agencies such as the Centers for Disease Control of \"criminal malfeasance\" for refusing to back measures such as mandatory testing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44485366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44485366", "title": "Abortion in Vanuatu", "text": "Abortion in Vanuatu\n\nAbortion in Vanuatu is severely restricted by criminal law. Abortion is illegal under the provisions of section 117 of the Vanuatu Penal Code, Act No. 17 or 7 August 1981. The code states that any women who intentionally induces a miscarriage is subject to up to two years' imprisonment. Abortion is illegal in cases of rape, incest, and threats to fetal health. The only allocations for abortion are to save the life or the pregnant women and to preserve physical and mental health. Under section 113 of the code the legal abortion must be done before the 28th week of pregnancy.\n\nThe Vanuatu Family Health Association reports various methods women use for self-induced abortions, including the use of local leaves or bark from a tree. Abortions like this that are outside of the medical system endanger the lives of women, as even an immediate visit to a nearby hospital or clinic may be futile if that medical facility does not have the equipment to repair any damage.\n"}
{"id": "13588294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13588294", "title": "Addiction recovery groups", "text": "Addiction recovery groups\n\nAddiction recovery groups are voluntary associations of people who share a common desire to overcome drug addiction. Different groups use different methods, ranging from completely secular to explicitly spiritual. Some programs may advocate a reduction in the use of illegal drugs rather than outright abstention, although this is typically not a sustainable treatment plan in the long term. One survey of members found active involvement in any addiction recovery group correlates with higher chances of maintaining sobriety. The survey found group participation increased when the individual members' beliefs matched those of their primary support group (often people will be members of multiple addiction recovery groups). Analysis of the survey results found a significant positive correlation between the religiosity of members and their participation in twelve-step addiction recovery groups and SMART Recovery, although the correlation factor was three times smaller for SMART Recovery than for the twelve-step addiction recovery groups. Religiosity was inversely related to participation in Secular Organizations for Sobriety.\n\nA survey of a cross-sectional sample of clinicians working in outpatient facilities (selected from the SAMHSA On-line Treatment Facility Locator) found that clinicians only referring clients to twelve-step groups for treatment were more likely than those referring their clients to twelve-step groups and \"twelve-step alternatives\" to believe less strongly in the effectiveness of Cognitive Behavioral and psychodynamic-oriented therapy, and were likely to be unfamiliar with twelve-step alternatives. A logistic regression of clinician's knowledge and awareness of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy effectiveness and preference for the twelve-step model was correlated with referring exclusively to twelve-step groups.\n\nThe following is a list of addiction recovery groups dealing with substances other than food.\n\nTwelve-step addiction recovery groups\nNon-twelve-step addiction recovery group options\n\n"}
{"id": "12307134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12307134", "title": "American Association for Medical Systems and Informatics", "text": "American Association for Medical Systems and Informatics\n\nThe American Association for Medical Systems and Informatics (AAMSI) was an organization created to encourage improvements in the state of medical care by encouraging the development of computer systems for that field.\n\nOn August 19, 1981, the American Association for Medical Systems and Informatics was incorporated. This organization came into existence as a result of the efforts of two predecessor organizations, the Society for Computer Medicine (SCM), incorporated in November, 1972, and the Society for Advanced Medical Systems (SAMS), incorporated in November, 1975, to merge into one. Formal dissolution of SCM and SAMS occurred on April 30, 1982. AAMSI's main purpose was to support patient care, teaching, research, and health administration through the development and implementation of computer systems. To meet this goal, the association served as a clearinghouse for information on medical systems and informatics, supported committees which contributed to the advance of medical informatics and sponsored annual conferences on advances in medical information systems.\n\nIn 1989, AAMSI merged with the Symposium on Computer Applications in Medical Care (SCAMC) and the American College of Medical Informatics (ACMI) to form the American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA).\n\nA collection of AAMSI's papers were donated to the National Library of Medicine in 1987.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6539619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6539619", "title": "American Kidney Fund", "text": "American Kidney Fund\n\nThe American Kidney Fund (AKF) is a major publicly supported 501(c)(3) non-profit organization founded in 1971. AKF provides comprehensive programs of kidney health awareness, education, and prevention, and provides financial assistance that helps 1 out of every 5 U.S. dialysis patients to access health care. In 2016, the American Kidney Fund provided treatment-related grant assistance to more than 98,000 low-income dialysis patients in 50 states, and provided free kidney health screenings in cities across the country.\n\nThe American Kidney Fund is headquartered in North Bethesda, Maryland (with a Rockville mailing address). As a 15-time recipient of the top “Four Star” rating from Charity Navigator, the American Kidney Fund is ranked among the top 1 percent of charities nationwide for fiscal accountability. AKF spends 97 cents of every donated dollar on patients and programs and is listed on Charity Navigator's Top 10 charities nationwide that have received the most consecutive four-star ratings. In addition, AKF holds an A+ rating from CharityWatch; adheres to the National Health Council Standards of Excellence; and is a member of the Better Business Bureau Wise Giving Alliance.\n\nThe American Kidney Fund's grant programs help low-income dialysis patients to access health care, including dialysis and transplantation. AKF provides grants that help with health insurance premiums and other treatment necessities not covered by health insurance, such as transportation to dialysis, nutritional products and emergency assistance. AKF also provides disaster relief to assist dialysis patients affected by natural disasters and provides summer enrichment grants to help children living with kidney failure to attend specialized summer programs.\n\nAKF provided free kidney health screenings to more than 10,000 people in 23 U.S. cities in 2016. AKF holds large community outreach events, Kidney Action Day, bringing free health screenings and healthy living information to people at high risk for kidney disease. In 2016, AKF held Kidney Action Day events in Alabama (Bessemer), Chicago, Houston, New Orleans, Philadelphia, and Washington, D.C.\n\nThe organization's public health education initiatives provide valuable information to patients and caregivers about all aspects of kidney disease and treatment, along with material on how kidney disease can be prevented. Through extensive online information, downloadable fact sheets and tools, a free monthly webinar series, a toll-free health information HelpLine for the public (866-300-2900), and a Kidney Health Educator program, AKF helps people understand their risk for kidney disease and what they can do to prevent it.\n\nThe American Kidney Fund offers a free online professional education series of courses designed to keep health professionals stay apprised of the best practices and latest information about kidney disease and kidney disease prevention. Each year thousands of health professionals take advantage of these free online courses to meet their continuing education requirements.\n\nThe American Kidney Fund raises funds from individuals, corporations and foundations. Individuals can donate by making direct donations, including those in memory or honor of someone; by holding a fundraiser through AKF's KIDNEYNATION; by donating a car, truck, boat or RV; by making a gift of stock; or through estate planning. Each fall, AKF holds a fundraising gala, The Hope Affair, in Washington, D.C., honoring inspirational patients, caregivers and fundraisers who are making a difference in their communities.\n\nAccording to the New York Times, the Kidney Fund has favored patients from clinics that contributed to the Kidney Fund, and discouraged other clinics from applying for assistance. Fresenius and DaVita provide nearly 80% of the Kidney Fund’s funding. According to Tracey Dickey, a social worker, the Kidney Fund sent her guidelines which said that “If your company cannot make fair and equitable contributions, we respectfully request that your organization not refer patients.” LaVarne A. Burton, the Kidney Fund’s chief executive, said that Ms. Dickey had misunderstood the guidelines. In a statement on its website, the Kidney Fund called the article \"factually incorrect and unfair,\" and said that they have never turned away a patient who was financially qualified to receive a grant, and that 40% of dialysis providers with patients receiving help don’t contribute anything to the Kidney Fund.\n\nThe U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) charged that dialysis providers steered patients to private insurance companies, which cost patients more, rather than to Medicaid and Medicare, which cost patients less but had lower reimbursements for the providers. The providers used the Kidney Fund's subsidies to help patients buy the more-expensive private insurance, according to the CMS. According to the Wall Street Journal, \"The rule took aim at a setup that has come under fire from health insurers, particularly those offering plans on the Affordable Care Act’s marketplaces. Under the setup, dialysis patients get help paying their health-insurance premiums from a charity, which itself gets funding from dialysis providers.\" On its website, the American Kidney Fund explains how its charitable premium assistance program works and why it is an essential part of the safety net for low-income dialysis patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "35058359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35058359", "title": "Bee-Man", "text": "Bee-Man\n\nBee-Man is a fictional superhero in comic books published by Harvey Comics, who briefly appeared during the period historians and fans call the Silver Age of Comic Books. He was created by writer Otto Binder and artist Bill Draut.\n\nBee-Man appeared during a mid-1960s superhero fad that accompanied the rising popularity of Marvel Comics and the success of the campy television series \"Batman\". When Harvey Comics, which specialized in such children's characters as Richie Rich and Little Dot, entered the superhero field in 1966, it hired veteran comic-book artist, writer and editor Joe Simon to create the imprint Harvey Thriller. This line included the titles \"Double-Dare Adventures\", \"Thrill-O-Rama\" and \"Unearthly Spectaculars\" and such superheroes as \nBee-Man, Spyman, Magicmaster, Glowing Gladiator, Tiger Boy, and Jack Q Frost.\n\nBee-Man, by writer Otto Binder and artist Bill Draut, debuted as the cover feature of \"Double-Dare Adventures\" #1 (Dec. 1966). His sole stories were the seven-page \"The Origin of Bee-Man\" in issue #1 and the 12-page \"The Revolt of the Queen Bee\", illustrated by Dick Ayers, in issue #2 (March 1967), on which he was also the cover feature. Shortly afterward, the Harvey Thriller imprint ended.\n\nDespite his truncated career, the character — who in the origin story itself is referred to not as Bee-Man but as the Bee — developed a small cult following amid fans of obscure 1960s Silver Age superheroes.\n\nNASA technician Barry E. Eames, feeling underappreciated, sabotaged a space probe returning from Mars, hoping to capitalize on whatever valuable commodity it might contain. Stung by Martian bees that had returned within the craft, which resembled a meteorite, he developed super strength and an ability to rapidly self-heal. Escaping from authorities, he returned to the craft, where he was kidnapped to the Martian satellite Deimos. \n\nThere, giant bees imprisoned him, informed him they planned to conquer Earth, and inexplicably granted him a costume with bee-themed weapons. Eames escaped to Earth, where he sided with the bee-like conquerors. Government scientists cured him of the psychological condition that caused his betrayal of humanity, and he went to work for an organization called the F-Bee-I.\n"}
{"id": "44717360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44717360", "title": "Bethlehemite Brothers", "text": "Bethlehemite Brothers\n\nThe Bethlehemite Brothers are a religious institute founded in Guatemala in 1653 and restored in 1984.\n\nTheir official name is Order of Bethlehemite Brothers (\"Ordo Fratrum Bethlemitarum: O.F.B.\"), or Bethlehem Brothers (\"Hermanos de Belén\"), and the members, like the members of two other Catholic religious orders, are known as Bethlehemites (\"Betlemitas\"). They are also known as the Order of the Brothers of Our Lady of Bethlehem (\"Orden de los Hermanos de Nuestra Señora de Bethlehem\").\n\nIn 2007, the order had 17 members, living in a single community.\n\n\"The information in the two following sections is taken mainly from an article in the 1907 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\".\nThe Bethlehemite Brothers were founded by in Guatemala in 1658 by Peter of Saint Joseph Betancur, a native of the Canary Islands. From childhood he had led a pious, austere life and in 1650 left family and country to carry out his desire of going to the West Indies. During the following year he reached Guatemala, the capital of New Spain, where he intended to prepare for the priesthood that later he might go forth and evangelize Japan. Three years of unsuccessful study at a Jesuit college led him to abandon this idea and, after holding the position of sacristan for a while in a church dedicated to the Virgin Mary, he rented a house in a suburb of the city called Calvary, and there taught reading and catechism to poor children, but this charitable work did not furnish sufficient outlet for his zeal.\n\nThe condition of the sick poor excited his compassion and he sheltered them in his home which he converted into a hospital. His zeal elicited benefactions from those around him and the bishop and governor supplied him with all the conveniences he required. Several individuals provided for the purchase of the houses surrounding the one he then occupied and on their site was erected a hospital in which this servant of God could labour to better advantage. He himself worked with the masons. The hospital was thoroughly equipped and stocked and even offered an opportunity for the religious installment of those who tended the sick. The institution was placed under the patronage of Our Lady of Bethlehem.\n\nHelpers soon joined Pedro and at length formed a congregation of brothers generally known as Bethlehemites and so called on account of their house. But the care of the sick did not totally absorb their attention; they likewise lent their assistance in the two other hospitals of the city and Pedro continued to befriend poor children. The prisoners also excited his compassion. Every Thursday he begged for them through the city and visited them in their cells.\n\nThe neglected souls in purgatory were also the objects of his solicitude and at the principal gates of the city he founded two hermitages, or chapels, wherein religious of his community begged, so that masses might be celebrated for the souls of the deceased. He himself would travel the streets at night ringing a bell and recommending these souls to be prayed for.\n\nPeter's devotion to the Blessed Virgin was inspiring and during a novena of preparation for the Feast of the Purification his religious, with arms extended in the form of a cross, recited the rosary in their chapel at midnight in the midst of a great throng. In 1654 he made a vow to defend the Immaculate Conception even at the peril of his life. He died, exhausted by labour and penance, 25 April 1667, at the age of forty-eight. His funeral was impressive and at the request of the Capuchin Friars he was buried in their church where, for a long time, his remains were held in veneration.\n\nBefore establishing his Guatemala hospital, Peter had become a member of the Third Order of St. Francis, adopting its religious habit, which he still retained after founding his congregation. He personally trained his first disciples and had no wish to organize a community, but simply to establish his hospital. He sent Brother Anthony of the Cross to Spain to solicit the king's approbation of the work. The favour was granted, but Peter died before the messenger's return.\n\nFrom that time the community prospered, beginning with the extension of the hospital and the erection of a beautiful church. Brother Anthony, who assumed the government, drew up constitutions which he submitted to the bishop of the diocese for approval and it was at this juncture that the Capuchins requested him to make some alterations in the habit worn by his religious. A free school for poor children was already connected with the Bethlehem hospital, a feature of all new foundations. One of these was soon undertaken by Brother Anthony of the Cross who sent two of his community to Peru where they were very favourably received by the viceroy to whom he had recommended them. Doctor Antoine d'Arvila gave them the Hospital of Notre Dame du Carmel which he was then establishing at Lima (in Peru) and afterwards solicited admission among them.\n\nIn 1672 Brother Roderick of the Cross obtained the confirmation of this establishment by the King of Spain and it was also through his efforts that Pope Clement X confirmed the congregation and its constitutions (1673). After his return to the Americas this religious founded the Hospital of St. Francis Xavier in Mexico and those of Chachapoyas, Cajamarca and Trujillo, going back to Spain in 1681 to secure the confirmation of these new institutions. The Spanish colonial Council of the Indies assigned the hospital of Lima an income of 3,000 crowns. The Bethlehemites, because of making only simple vows, remained under diocesan jurisdiction from which they wished, however, to be freed so that their congregation might be converted into a regular religious order bound by solemn vows. The Spanish court did not approve this plan and at first the Holy See was not favourable to it, but due chiefly to the influence of Cardinal Mellini, former nuncio at Madrid, Roderick of the Cross at length overcame all difficulties and in the Papal Bull of 26 March 1687, Pope Innocent XI authorized these religious to make the three solemn vows according to the rule of St. Augustine (although Peter of Saint Joseph Betancur was a Franciscan) and to have a Prior General, and granted them all the privileges of the Augustinian friars and convents.\n\nLater, Pope Clement XI renewed this authorization and these favours, adding thereunto the privileges of the mendicant orders, of the Regular Clerks, of the Ministers of the Sick and of the Hospitallers of Charity of St. Hippolytus (1707).\n\nMeanwhile, the order was multiplying its foundations in Latin America and was established in Arequipa, Cuzco, Santiago de Cuba, Puebla, Guadalajara, Guanajuato, Dajaka, Vera Cruz, Havana, Santiago de Chile, Buenos Aires and (in 1660) Guatemala la Nueva. A school for poor children was connected with every hospital and the pious, devoted lives of these religious won them esteem and gratitude. They were especially admired during the plague of 1736, a fact unanimously acknowledged by the writers who describe the condition of Latin America in the eighteenth century. But this did not prevent their suppression, as well as that of all other religious, in 1820. At that time their superior-general resided in Mexico and the Bethlehemites were scattered throughout two regular provinces, that of Peru including twenty-two houses and that of New-Spain (mainly Mexico), eleven. To the ordinary religious vows they added that of caring for the sick even at the risk of their own lives.\n\nIn 1688 Brother Anthony of the Cross, with the help of a pious woman, Marie Anne del Gualdo, founded at Guatemala a community of Bethlehemite nuns and a hospital exclusively for women. These nuns were cloistered and observed the same rule as the men. They too were suppressed in 1820.\n\nLater in the 19th century, Blessed (1815-1886) revived the female branch of the order, establishing houses in Guatemala, Costa Rica, Colombia, and Ecuador.\n\nThe Holy See restored the Bethlehem Brothers by a decree of 16 January 1984, which came into effect with the religious profession of the first members of the revived order on 25 April 1986. Their house is in La Laguna, Tenerife, Canary Islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27909679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27909679", "title": "Caisis", "text": "Caisis\n\nCaisis is an open-source, web-based, patient data management system that integrates research with patient care. The system is freely distributed to promote the collection of standard, well structured data suitable for research and multi-institution collaboration.\n\nCaisis was designed around structured chronological patient histories which could be displayed to clinicians and processed by computer algorithms.\nThe system was initiated in the Department of Urology at Memorial Sloan–Kettering Cancer Center in 2002 and has been actively developed by BioDigital Systems and a number of other institutions worldwide. It is released under the GNU General Public License (GPL) and is entirely web based; written mainly in C#, HTML, and JavaScript it runs on the .Net Framework.\nThe installer, source code and documentation are available from its website. Although it is widely used in cancer research the framework allows rapid adoption for collecting data on a multitude of disease states.\n\n\nCaisis has been developed to allow the system to evolve and adapt to the evolving landscape of clinical research. As a framework, it is easy for developers to extend Caisis by adding new fields and tables, plugin features, and new modules with standalone functionality. New functionality is added to support the primary\ngoal of Caisis: to capture the patient's clinical \"story\". This approach provides users and clinicians with work flow driven interfaces that allow data capture to occur at the point of service.\n\nCapturing data in the structured, Caisis relational data model, will facilitate the generation of large clean datasets for multi-institution collaborative research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52356042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52356042", "title": "Cannabis in Latvia", "text": "Cannabis in Latvia\n\nCannabis in Latvia is illegal for recreational and medical purposes, but production of industrial hemp is permitted.\n\nPossession of quantities up to 1 gram are fined up to 280 euro, for second offences within a year period criminal charges are applied. Possession of larger quantities can be punished with up to 15 years imprisonment.\n\nDuring the first period of Latvian independence, use of cannabis was not prohibited and not widespread, although during that period use of other drugs such as cocaine and morphine were also not prohibited, with sale of those drugs restricted to pharmacies.\n\nLatvia participated in the International Opium Convention of 6 February, 1922, which dealt with limiting the international trade of opium and cocaine products.\n\nOn 19 February 1925, the Convention added restriction on cannabis extracts and tinctures, but not on herbal cannabis. This version of the Convention entered into force on 25 September 1928. \n\nOn 26 June 1936, they set up the first international treaty providing for the criminalization of opium, coca, and cannabis products in non-medical and non-scientific production and distribution (Convention for the Suppression of the Illicit Traffic in Dangerous Drugs). It was signed by only a few countries; Latvia and Lithuania did not sign, Estonia signed it but not ratified.\n\nThroughout the territory of the USSR there were a law that penalized marijuana smuggling and trade with 1-3 years in prison or forced labor, but without penalties for possession or use.\n\nCannabis was banned in the USSR in 1974 with the law \"On combating policy in the fight against drug addiction\". This law also harshened penalties for drug trafficking.Since then, the territory of the USSR the term \"narcotics\" began to be applied to all prohibited substances, not only opiates.\n\nAfter the collapse of the USSR the number of people who have used cannabis products was very low (below 2%). In the 1990s marijuana's popularity grew rapidly and reached Western levels, nowadays it continues to grow slightly. Since independence, not only marijuana trafficking and production, but also the possession has been criminalized. It is governed by the 1961 30 March United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, which Latvia signed on 11 May 1993.\n\nIn Latvia, cannabis products (marijuana and hashish) is the most commonly used illicit substance. Since 2007, studies show marijuana Latvian 15-64 year age group among experienced in 12.1% of the population, which had increased in comparison with the 2003 study, when cannabis products in the number of users was 10.6%. In the age group 15-34 years rates were much higher, and in 2007 the population of this age tried cannabis products was 21.7%.\n\nRiga City Councils Welfare Department in turn has made repeated studies still the youngest age group (9th and 10th grade students in the middle). In this age group, while in 2010, cannabis products were 22.7% of students have tried to turn the use of a slight increase between 2008 and 2006, when tried cannabis products were 22% and 18%.\n\nAccording to Center for Disease Prevention and Control Center data in late 2010 addiction records of hemp products addiction treated 72 people. Compared with other psychotropic substances, although it is quite a bit like with alcohol addiction in late 2010 addiction inventory totaled 24,998 people (alcohol users Although there are eight times higher).\n\nLatvian marijuana production, distribution and use is also against the law. Marijuana or cannabis is included in the Ministry of Welfare under the control of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors in List I - \" Prohibited especially dangerous narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances treated as such \"). The marijuana use or storage of up to 1 gram can order the administrative penalty to 280 euros or a warning. In addition, be issued a written warning of criminal liability, if the violation will be repeated during the year. For storage of larger amounts of marijuana, growing and distribution can be sentenced to prison, in some cases up to 15 years. In practice, people with no previous convictions receive a milder punishment - a conditional sentence. Latvian marijuana medical marijuana is not used because of the location I drug list.\n\nIn 2012 the public initiative platform ManaBalss.lv collected signatures for the 'marijuana decriminalization\", to remove criminal penalties for cultivation and possession of small amounts of cannabis by those over 18. Under the proposed regulations, Latvians would be permitted to grow not more than two or three cannabis plants, and keep 20-30 grams of cannabis at home, and publicly carry no more than 5 grams.\n\nOn 24 March 2015 the cannabis decriminalization petition on ManaBalss.lv collected 10005 signatures of citizens, which meant that the initiative may be submitted to Latvian Parliament. On May 18, the new initiative representative Donats Blaževičs published 100 arguments for marijuana decriminalization initiative to support the site 100argumenti.lv.\n\nParliament declined this initiative on September 3.\n"}
{"id": "13778389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13778389", "title": "Capital punishment in Belgium", "text": "Capital punishment in Belgium\n\nCapital punishment in Belgium was formally abolished on August 1, 1996 for all crimes, in both peacetime and wartime. The last execution for crimes committed in peacetime took place in July 1863, when in Ypres a farmer was executed for murder. The last execution for an ordinary crime took place on 26 March 1918 at Veurne Prison when Emile Ferfaille, a military officer found guilty of killing his pregnant girlfriend, was guillotined. This was the first execution to be carried out since 1863. The guillotine that was used had to be imported from France.\n\nBetween November 1944 and August 1950 around 242 people were executed by firing squad for crimes committed during the Second World War. 241 of them had been convicted as collaborators. A total of 2940 persons were sentenced to death in this period, but only 242 executions were carried out. The last person ever to be executed in Belgium was the German war criminal Philipp Schmitt on 8 August 1950, the camp commander of the concentration camp Fort Breendonk. Although the Belgian Penal Code stipulated that the death penalty had to be carried out by decapitation, because the 242 persons executed following the Second World War were tried by a military court they were executed by firing squad.\n\nOn 1 January 1999, the Sixth Protocol to the European Convention of Human Rights, forbidding the death penalty in all circumstances, came into force and Belgium has also signed the second optional protocol of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. On 2 February 2005, the prohibition of the death penalty was included in the Belgian Constitution by inserting an Article 14bis.\n"}
{"id": "51032294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51032294", "title": "Cebu Water", "text": "Cebu Water\n\nCebu Water is an investment agreement between the Provincial Government of Cebu (PGC), and Manila Water Consortium where of 51 percent is owned by the consortium The agreement calls for the development and operation of a water supply system that will supply 35 million liter of water per day to target cities and municipalities in the central and northern portions Cebu. The term of the agreement is 30 years starting in March 2012, renewable for another 25 year.\n\nThe Manila Water Consortium is composed of Manila Water Company, Inc., Metro Pacific Water Investments Corporation, and Vicsal Development Company, Inc., .\n\nThe Cebu bulk water supply project is the first in tCebu to utilize a large-scale sustainable surface water source from Luyang River in the municipality of Carmen, Cebu. It is expected to improve the current groundwater condition in Cebu which has deteriorated due to excessive use of deep wells.\n\n"}
{"id": "2364390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2364390", "title": "Chhaupadi", "text": "Chhaupadi\n\nChhaupadi ( ) is a social tradition associated with the menstrual taboo in the western part of Nepal. The tradition prohibits Hindu women and girls from participating in normal family activities while menstruating, as they are considered \"impure\".\n\nThe women are kept out of the house and have to live in a cattle shed or a makeshift hut. This period of time lasts between ten and eleven days when an adolescent girl has her first period; thereafter, the duration is between four and seven days each month. Childbirth also results in a ten to eleven-day confinement. During this time, women are forbidden to touch men or even to enter the courtyard of their own homes. They are barred from consuming milk, yogurt, butter, meat, and other nutritious foods, for fear they will forever mar those goods. The women must survive on a diet of dry foods, salt, and rice. They cannot use warm blankets and are allowed only a small rug; most commonly, this is made of jute (also known as burlap). They are also restricted from going to school or performing daily functions like taking a bath.\n\nThe practice of chhaupadi originates from the superstition that menstruation causes women to be temporarily impure, based on the myth that Indra created menstruation as a means to distribute a curse. In this logic, it is believed that if a menstruating woman touches a tree, it will never again bear fruit; if she consumes milk, the cow will not give any more milk; if she reads a book, Saraswati, the goddess of education, will become angry; if she touches a man, he will be ill.\n\nThe practice persists in rural areas primarily in Western Nepal. It is also called ‘chhue’ or ‘bahirhunu’ in Dadeldhura, Baitadi and Darchula, as ‘chhaupadi’ in Achham, and as ‘chaukulla’ or ‘chaukudi’ in Bajhang district.\n\nMenstruating women and girls are required to remain isolated from their family, and are forbidden from entering homes, kitchens, schools, and temples. During this time, they sit in what is often a small outdoor shed, usually made from wood or stone, and are unable to cook, touch livestock, or use the same water sources as the rest of the community. In some locations, women may stay isolated from their family in a separate room attached to the house, such as a shed used for storing tools. There is often no furniture, and women sleep on the ground. They may not touch family members, and food and water is passed to them without touching. It is believed particularly dangerous for women to touch men during this time.\n\nUpon menarche, adolescent girls are required to spend up to fourteen days in the shed; afterwards, she must spend the duration of each menstrual period in the shed. Additionally, women who have just given birth must stay in the shed with their child for up to two weeks.\n\nDespite the social isolation of chhaupadi, women must still work, often fieldwork, during menstruation.\n\nWomen are exposed to multiple health and safety risks while practising chhaupadi.\n\nHuts are often poorly constructed, lacking heat or ventilation, leaving women essentially outside to the elements and extreme temperatures during different times of year. Women are at risk of developing illnesses such as pneumonia or diarrhea while practising, as well as being open to attack by snakes and other animals. Risk of asphyxiation is often high if the woman starts a fire in the hut, in an attempt to keep warm during the winter. Women have been raped while practising chhaupadi.\n\nWhile exact numbers are not available, women and girls die annually while performing the practice, including two young women in late 2016 who died from smoke inhalation and \"carbon monoxide poisoning\" from fires.\n\nChhaupadi was outlawed by the Supreme Court of Nepal in 2005, but the tradition has been slow to change. In 2017, Nepal passed a law punishing people who force women into exile during menstruating with up to three months in jail or a fine of 3,000 Nepalese rupees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19287806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19287806", "title": "Cochabamba Water War", "text": "Cochabamba Water War\n\nThe Cochabamba Water War was a series of protests that took place in Cochabamba, Bolivia's fourth largest city, between December 1999 and April 2000 in response to the privatization of the city's municipal water supply company SEMAPA. The wave of demonstrations and police violence was described as a public uprising against water prices.\n\nThe tensions erupted when a new firm, Aguas del Tunari – a joint venture involving Bechtel – was required to invest in construction of a long-envisioned dam (a priority of Mayor Manfred Reyes Villa) - so they had dramatically raised water rates. Protests, largely organized through the Coordinadora in Defense of Water and Life, a community coalition, erupted in January, February, and April 2000, culminating in tens of thousands marching downtown and battling police. One civilian was killed. On 10 April 2000, the national government reached an agreement with the Coordinadora to reverse the privatization. A complaint filed by foreign investors was resolved by agreement in February 2001.\n\nThe restoration of civilian rule to Bolivia in 1982 ended decades of military dictatorships, but did not bring economic stability. In 1985, with hyperinflation at an annual rate of 25 thousand percent, few foreign investors would do business in the country. The Bolivian government turned to the World Bank as a last resort against economic meltdown. For the next 20 years, successive governments followed the World Bank's provisions in order to qualify for continued loans from the organization. In order to move towards independent development, Bolivia privatised its railways, telephone system, national airlines, and hydrocarbon industry.\n\nThe World Bank said that \"poor governments are often too plagued by local corruption and too ill equipped to, the World Bank stated that \"no subsidies should be given to ameliorate the increase in water tariffs in Cochabamba\". \"The New Yorker\" reported on the World Bank's motives, \"Most of the poorest neighborhoods were not hooked up to the network, so state subsidies and water utility went mainly to industries and middle-class neighborhoods; the poor paid far more for water of dubious purity from trucks and handcarts. In the World Bank's view, it was a city that was crying out for water privatization.\"\n\nIn a 2002 publication the World Bank acknowledges that one of its loans, the \"Major Cities Water and Sewerage Rehabilitation Project\", included a condition to privatize the La Paz and Cochabamba water utilities. The privatization was required to allow a two-year extension of the project that was due to close in 1995. The World Bank project that began in 1990 had covered three cities, leading to sharply diverging outcomes: Access increased and service quality improved in Santa Cruz de la Sierra where a successful cooperative provided services, which enjoyed, according to the World Bank, \"the reputation as one of the best-managed utilities in Latin America.\" However, results were mixed in La Paz and poor in Cochabamba. In the latter access to piped water had actually decreased from 70% to 60%, water losses had remained high at 40% and water supply had remained unreliable at about 4 hours a day despite the funds made available by the World Bank to support the public utility. The World Bank did not include a conditionality to privatize water in Santa Cruz where the local utility had been able to improve services, but only in the cities where the utilities had failed to improve services.\n\nThe World Bank acknowledges that it provided assistance to prepare a concession contract for Cochabamba in 1997. However, its involvement with water in Cochabamba ended in the same year. At that time the bidding process for the concession had been declared void by the Supreme Court in response to a legal challenge by the municipality of Cochabamba. In the same year the World Bank project in the three cities ended. The World Bank thus was not included any more in the subsequent phase of the privatization. The new concession included the Misicuni project that involved construction of a new dam. The dam had been opposed by the World Bank as being unnecessarily expensive compared to a cheaper alternative, but local politicians favoured the Misicuni project. An alternative, the Corani project, would have supplied water to Cochambamba from an existing dam. The high expected cost of the Misicuni project led to the 38% tariff increase imposed at the beginning of the concession. Had the advice of the World Bank been followed, the construction of the dam would not have been part of the concession, the tariff increase would have been unnecessary and Aguas del Tunari would have had to face competition in its drive to win the Cochabamba concession. Such competition would have made it much more difficult to obtain some abusive conditions that were ultimately included in the concession.\n\nThe Misicuni project was later pursued by Evo Morales when he became President of Bolivia nine years later. It was justified through its benefits for hydropower generation and irrigation in addition to potable water supply for Cochabamba. In 2010 the dam was under construction.\n\nPrior to privatization the water works of Cochabamba were controlled by the state agency SEMAPA. After pressure from the World Bank, Bolivia put SEMAPA up for auction for privatization but not capitalization. Only one party was willing to bid on the project. This was \"Aguas del Tunari\", a consortium between the British firm International Waters (55 percent) - itself a subsidiary of the construction giant Bechtel Enterprise Holdings (USA) and United Utilities (UK) - the engineering and construction firm Abengoa of Spain (25 percent) and four Bolivian companies (5 percent each) including Constructora Petricevic, Sociedad Boliviana de Cemento (SOBOCE), Compania Boliviana de Ingenieria and ICE Agua y Energia S.A., all involved with the construction and engineering industry. The water network that they envisioned was projected to provide drinking water to all the people of Cochabamba. This was set to double the existing coverage area and also introduce electrical production to more of the region.\n\nWithout regard for its weak bargaining position, the Bolivian government under President Hugo Banzer agreed to the terms of its sole bidder \"Aguas del Tunari\" and signed a $2.5 billion, 40-year concession \"to provide water and sanitation services to the residents of Cochabamba, as well as generate electricity and irrigation for agriculture.\" Within the terms of the contract the consortium was guaranteed a minimum 15% annual return on its investment, which was to be annually adjusted to the United States' consumer price index. The implementation of \"Aguas del Tunari's\" program was set to correlate with a government plan to present a $63 million rural development package to peasants with funds for crop diversification, and extending electric and telephone services to remote areas.\n\nTo ensure the legality of the privatization the Bolivian government passed law 2029, which verified the contract with \"Aguas del Tunari\". To many the law appeared to give a monopoly to \"Aguas del Tunari\" over all water resources. Many feared that this included water used for irrigation by peasant farmers (\"campesinos\"), and community-based resources that had previously been independent of regulation. The law was seen as \"enabling the sale of water resources that had never really been a part of SEMAPA in the first place.\" Many became worried that independent communal water systems which had yet to be connected with SEMAPA would be \"summarily appropriated by the new concession.\" By Law 2029, if \"Aguas del Tunari\" had wanted to, not only could it have installed meters and begin charging at independently built communal water systems, but it could have also charged residents for the installation of those meters. The broad nature of Law 2029 led many to claim that the government would require a license be obtained for people to collect rainwater from their roofs. The first to raise concerns over the scope of the law was the new \"Federación Departamental Cochabambina de Regantes\" (FEDECOR) and its leader Omar Fernandez. FEDECOR was made up of local professionals, including engineers and environmentalists. They were joined by a federation of peasant farmers who relied on irrigation, and a confederation of factory workers' unions led by Oscar Olivera. Together these groups formed \"Coördinator for the Defense of Water and Life\", or \"La Coordinadora\" which became the core of the opposition to the policy.\n\nLaw 2029 was one of the primary points of disagreement between protestors and the government. The initial intent of the law was to introduce concessions and licenses for the supply of potable water for cities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. Faced with a significant amount of disagreement over the implementation of the law, the Bolivian government held a referendum in which 97% of individuals disagreed with the privatization orientation of the new law. For many Bolivians, the implementation of law 2029 and the concessions that accompanied it symbolized all that was wrong with the neoliberal development strategy—its alleged lack of concern for equity, its rejection of the role of the state, and in a country with a very long tradition of anti-imperialist rhetoric, the law represented a preferential attitude to foreign capital over the national interest. This opposition expressed by the community arose from across the political spectrum. The traditional left claimed that the transfer of state property to private enterprises was unconstitutional while the right opposed the denationalization of enterprises that it considered vital and strategic.\n\nAs a condition of the contract \"Aguas del Tunari\" had agreed to pay the $30 million in debt accumulated by SEMAPA. They also agreed to finance an expansion of the water system, and began a much needed maintenance program on the existing deteriorating water system. Dider Quint, a managing director for the consortium, said \"We were confident that we could implement this program in a shorter period than the one required by the contract. [To accomplish this] We had to reflect in the tariff increase all the increases that had never been implemented before.\"\n\nOn top of this, in order to secure the contract, \"Aguas del Tunari\" had to promise the Bolivian government to fund the completion of the stalled Misicuni dam project. The dam was purportedly designed to pipe water through the mountains, but the World Bank had deemed it uneconomic. While the consortium had no interest in building the dam, it was a condition of their contract, as it was backed by an influential member of Banzer's megacoalition, the mayor of Cochabamba, Manfred Reyes Villa. An attempt to privatize the water system had been made without the condition of building the dam in 1997, but Reyes Villa had used his influence to quash the deal. Critics of Reyes Villa held that the dam was a \"vanity project\" which would profit \"some of his main financial backers\".\n\nThe officials in Bolivia for \"Aguas del Tunari\" were mostly engineers lacking marketing training. They were also foreigners unaware of the intricacies of Bolivian society and economics. Upon taking control, the company raised water rates an average of 35% to about $20 a month. While this seemed minuscule in the developed nations that the \"Aguas del Tunari\" staff had come from, many of their new clients only earned about $100 a month and $20 was more than they spent on food. In complete ignorance of the reality of his situation, a manager for the consortium, Geoffrey Thorpe simply said \"if people didn't pay their water bills their water would be turned off.\" The poor were joined in their protest by January 2000, when middle-class homeowners and large business owners stripped of their subsidies saw their own water bills increase. As anger over the rates mounted, Reyes Villa was quick to distance himself from \"Aguas del Tunari\".\n\nStarting in early January 2000 massive protests in Cochabamba began with Oscar Olivera among the most outspoken leaders against the rate hikes and subsequent water cut-offs. The demonstrators consisted of \"regantes\" (peasant irrigators) who entered the city either under village banners, or carrying the \"wiphala\"; they were joined by \"jubilados\" (retired unionized factory workers) under the direction of Olivera and \"cholitas\". Young men began to try to take over the plaza and a barricade across incoming roadways was set up. Soon they were joined by pieceworkers, sweatshop employees, and street vendors (a large segment of the economy since the closure of the state-owned tin mines). Anarchists from the middle-classes came from the University of Cochabamba to denounce the World Bank and International Monetary Fund and neoliberalism. The strongest supporters of the demonstration were drawn from the city's growing population of homeless street children.\n\nProtesters halted Cochabamba's economy by holding a general strike that shut down the city for four days. A ministerial delegation went to Cochabamba and agreed to roll back the water rates; still the demonstration continued. On 4 February 2000, thousands marching in protest were met by troops and law enforcement from Oruro and La Paz. Two days of clashes occurred with the police using teargas. Almost 200 demonstrators were arrested; 70 protesters and 51 policemen were injured.\n\nThroughout March 2000 the Bolivian hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church tried to mediate between the government and the demonstrators. In the meantime, the \"Coordinadora\" made their own referendum and declared that out of fifty thousand votes, 96% demanded the contract with \"Aguas del Tunari\" be cancelled. The government's reply was that \"There is nothing to negotiate.\"\n\nIn April 2000, demonstrators again took over Cochabamba's central plaza. When the leaders of the \"Coordinadora\" (including Óscar Olivera) went to a meeting with the governor at his office they were arrested. Though they were released the following day, some, fearing further government action, fled into hiding. More demonstration leaders were arrested, with some being transferred to a jungle prison in San Joaquin, a remote town in the Amazon rainforest on the border with Brazil. The demonstrations spread quickly to other areas including La Paz, Oruro, and Potosí as well as rural areas. The protesters also expanded their demands calling on the government to resolve unemployment and other economic problems. Soon demonstrators had most of the major highways in Bolivia barricaded. The protest even inspired officers in four La Paz police units to refuse to leave their barracks or obey superiors until a wage dispute was settled.\n\nThe Bolivian Constitution allows the President (with the support of his Cabinet) to declare a 90-day state of siege in one or more districts of the nation as an emergency measure to maintain public order in \"cases of serious danger resulting from an internal civil disturbance\". Any extension beyond 90 days must be approved of by the Congress. Anyone arrested at this time must be released after 90 days unless criminal charges are brought against them before a court. With the roads cut off and fearing a repeat of past uprisings, President Banzer on 8 April 2000 declared a \"state of siege\". Banzer said, \"We see it as our obligation, in the common best interest, to decree a state of emergency to protect law and order.\" Information Minister Ronald MacLean Abaroa described the rationale for the decree, saying \"We find ourselves with a country with access roads to the cities blocked, with food shortages, passengers stranded and chaos beginning to take hold in other cities.\" The decree suspended \"some constitutional guarantees, allowing police to detain protest leaders without a warrant, restrict travel and political activity and establish a curfew.\" Meetings of over four people were outlawed, and the freedom of the press was curtailed with radio stations being taken over by the military and some newspaper reporters being arrested. The police moved in to enforce the policy with nighttime raids and mass arrests. At one point 20 labor union and civic leaders were arrested. The police's tear gas and rubber bullets were met by the protesters' rocks and Molotov cocktails. Continuing violent clashes between the demonstrators and law enforcement led to internal exile, 40 injuries, and five deaths. International Human Rights Organizations decried the \"state of siege\" declaration. This was the seventh time since Bolivia returned to democracy in 1982 that the \"state of siege\" decree had been employed.\n\nOn 9 April 2000, near the city of Achacachi, soldiers met resistance to removing a roadblock and opened fire, killing two people (including a teenage boy) and wounding several others. Angry residents overpowered soldiers and used their weapons against military leaders. They wounded Battalion commander Armando Carrasco Nava and army captain Omar Jesus Tellez Arancibia. The demonstrators then found Tellez in hospital, dragged him from his bed, beat him to death and dismembered his body.\n\nAlso, on 9 April 2000, 800 striking police officers fired tear gas at soldiers (to which the soldiers then fired their weapons in the air). In response the government gave a 50% pay raise to the La Paz police to end the strike. This brought their monthly income up from the equivalent of $80 to $120. The police then returned to enforcement procedures against those still demonstrating. A group of soldiers soon demanded their own raise, declaring that there was racial discrimination in the pay scale. Police in Santa Cruz, the nation's second largest city, also went on strike demanding a raise.\n\nThe coca growers of Bolivia led by then-Congressman Evo Morales (later elected President of Bolivia in December 2005) had joined the demonstrators and were demanding an end to the United States-sponsored program of coca eradication of their crops (while coca leaf can be heavily refined and made into cocaine it is used legally by many in Bolivia for teas and for chewing). Seeing the involvement of the coca growers, the Bolivian government claimed that the demonstrators were actually agents or pawns of drug traffickers. Ronald MacLean Abaroa, the Minister of Information, told reporters the demonstrations were the work of drug traffickers trying to stop the government program to eradicate coca fields and replace them with cotton, pineapples, and bananas. He said that \"These protests [were] a conspiracy financed by cocaine trafficking looking for pretexts to carry out subversive activities. It is impossible for so many farmers to spontaneously move on their own.\" MacLean said President Hugo Banzer was worried because \"political groups and traffickers are instigating farmers to confront the army.\" Felix Santos, a leader of the farmers rejected such claims, saying \"We are protesting because of higher gasoline and transportation prices and a law that will charge us for the use of water.\"\n\nTeachers of state schools in rural areas went on strike calling for salary increases (at the time they made $1,000 a year).\nIn the capital city of La Paz students began to fight with police. Demonstrators put up roadblocks of stones, bricks and barrels near Achacachi and Batallas, and violence broke out there as well (one army officer and two farmers were killed and dozens injured). Soldiers and police soon cleared most of the roadblocks that had cut off highways in five of the country's nine provinces.\n\nAfter a televised recording of a Bolivian Army captain, Robinson Iriarte de la Fuente, firing a rifle into a crowd of demonstrators, wounded many and hit high school student Víctor Hugo Daza in the face, killing him. Intense anger erupted. The police told the executives of the consortium that their safety could no longer be guaranteed. The executives then fled from Cochabamba to Santa Cruz. After coming out of four days of hiding, Oscar Olivera signed a concord with the government guarantee the removal of \"Aguas del Tunari\" and turning Cochabamba's water works over to \"La Coordinadora\". Detained demonstrators were to be released and Law 2029 repealed. The Banzer government then told \"Aguas del Tunari\" that by leaving Cochabamba they had \"abandoned\" the concession and declared the $200 million contract revoked. The company, insisting that it had not left voluntarily but been forced out, filed a $40 million lawsuit in the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, an appellate body of the World Bank, against the Bolivian government, \"claiming compensation for lost profits under a bilateral investment treaty.\" On the day following Víctor Hugo Daza's funeral, Óscar Olivera climbed to his union office's balcony and proclaimed victory to the exhausted crowd. The demonstrators declared that they would not relent until Law 2029 was changed. To get a quorum to amend the law the government even rented planes to fly legislators back to the capital. In a special session on 11 April 2000 the law was changed.\n\nOn 12 April 2000 when asked about the outcome in Bolivia, World Bank President James Wolfensohn maintained that free or subsidized delivery of a public service like water leads to abuse of the resource; he said, \"The biggest problem with water is the waste of water through lack of charging.\"\n\nIn Washington, D.C. at the 16 April 2000 IMF and World Bank meetings, protesters attempted to blockade the streets to stop the meeting. They cited the Water Wars in Bolivia as an example of corporate greed and a reason to resist globalization. Oscar Olivera attended the protests, saying, \"The people have recaptured their dignity, their capacity to organize themselves - and most important of all, the people are no longer scared.\"\n\nOn 23 April 2002 Oscar Olivera led 125 protesters to the San Francisco headquarters of Bechtel, the only member of \"Aguas del Tunari\" located in the Americas. Olivera said \"With the $25 million they are seeking, 125,000 people could have access to water.\" Bechtel officials agreed to meet him.\n\nThe victory gained the \"cocalero\" and \"campesino\" groups international support from anti-globalisation groups. Oscar Olivera and Omar Fernandez have become sought after speakers at venues discussing how to resist resource privatization and venues critical of the World Bank. His actions in the Water Wars raised the profile of Congressman Evo Morales and he became President of Bolivia in 2005. Omar Fernandez joined Morales' Movement for Socialism and became a Bolivian senator.\n\nThe Cochabamba protests of 2000 are chronicled by Olivera in his book Cochabamba! Water Rebellion in Bolivia.\n\nOn 19 January 2006 a settlement was reached between the Government of Bolivia (then under the Presidency of Eduardo Rodriguez Veltze) and \"Aguas del Tunari\", it was agreed that \"the concession was terminated only because of the civil unrest and the state of emergency in Cochabamba and not because of any act done or not done by the international shareholders of Aguas del Tunari\". With this statement both parties agreed to drop any financial claims against the other.\n\nWhen no sitting judge would hear the case against Captain Robinson Iriarte, it was transferred to a military tribunal (that had final jurisdiction over which cases it hears). In March 2002, Captain Iriarte was acquitted by the tribunal of any responsibility for the death of Víctor Hugo Daza. After Iriarte's acquittal, he was promoted to the rank of major.\n\nIn the end water prices in Cochabamba returned to their pre-2000 levels with a group of community leaders running the restored state utility company SEMAPA. As late as 2005, half of the 60,000 people of Cochabamba remained without water and those with it only received intermittent service (some as little as three hours a day). Oscar Olivera the leading figure in the protests admitted, \"I would have to say we were not ready to build new alternatives.\" SEMAPA managers say they are still forced to deal with graft and inefficiencies, but that its biggest problem is a lack of money (it can not raise rates, and after Aguas del Tunari was forced out, other international companies are unwilling to give them more loans). Luis Camargo, SEMAPA's operations manager in an interview with \"The New York Times\" said they were forced to continue using a water-filtration system that is split between \"an obsolete series of 80-year-old tanks and a 29-year-old section that uses gravity to move mountain water from one tank to another.\" He stated that the system was built for a far smaller city and worried about shrinking aquifers. A system to bring water down from the mountains would cost $300 million and SEMAPA's budget is only about $5 million a year.\n\n\"The New Yorker\" reports \"in Cochabamba, those who are not on the network and who have no well, pay ten times as much for their water as the relatively wealthy residents who are hooked up\", and with no new capital the situation can not be improved. A local resident complained that water-truck operators \"drill polluted water and sell it. They [also] waste a lot of water.\" According to author Frederik Segerfeldt, \"the poor of Cochabamba are still paying 10 times as much for their water as the rich, connected households and continue to indirectly subsidize water consumption of more well-to-do sectors of the community. Water nowadays is available only four hours a day and no new households have been connected to the supply network.\" Franz Taquichiri, a veteran of the Water War and an SEMAPA director elected by the community, said \"I don't think you'll find people in Cochabamba who will say they're happy with service. No one will be happy unless they get service 24 hours a day.\" Another Cochabamba resident and activist during the unrest summed up her opinion of the situation by saying, \"afterwards, what had we gained? We were still hungry and poor.\"\n\nSimilar protests took place in La Paz over Aguas de Illimani, a subsidiary of the French multinational Suez. Aguas de Illimani's contract with the state was broken after allegations were made by the Bolivian govt. that it did not respect all the clauses of the contract. According to the Bolivian ambassador Pablo Solón Romero, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), part of the World Bank Group, was a share-holder of Aguas de Illimani. The ambassador pointed out that since the case was brought before the ICSID, which is an arm of the World Bank, a conflict of interest arose in this affair.\n\n\nBhimendra\n\n"}
{"id": "56771693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56771693", "title": "DISCERN", "text": "DISCERN\n\nDISCERN is an online instrument designed to measure the quality of health information on the Internet. It was originally developed by Deborah Charnock, Sasha Shepperd, Gill Needham, and Robert Gann, who reported on its development and validation in a February 1999 paper. The DISCERN website was launched in May 1999. Despite originally being developed using printed materials, it has also been shown to be effective at evaluating the quality of online medical information, as well as for printed information.\n"}
{"id": "37686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37686", "title": "Disabled sports", "text": "Disabled sports\n\nDisabled sports, also adaptive sports or parasports, are sports played by persons with a disability, including physical and intellectual disabilities. As many disabled sports are based on existing able bodied sports, modified to meet the needs of persons with a disability, they are sometimes referred to as \"adapted sports\". However, not all disabled sports are adapted; several sports that have been specifically created for persons with a disability have no equivalent in non-disabled sports. Disability exists in four categories: physical, mental, permanent and temporary.\n\nOrganized sport for athletes with a disability is generally divided into three broad disability groups: the deaf, people with physical disabilities, and people with intellectual disabilities. Each group has a distinct history, organization, competition program, and approach to sport.\n\nFormal international competition in deaf sport began with the 1924 Paris \"Silent Games\", organized by the Comité International des Sports des Sourds, CISS (The International Committee of Sports for the Deaf). These games evolved into the modern Deaflympics, governed by the CISS. The CISS maintains separate games for deaf athletes based on their numbers, their special communication needs on the sports field, and the social interaction that is a vital part of sports.\n\nOrganized sport for persons with physical disabilities existed as early as 1911, when the \"Cripples Olympiad\" was held in the U.S.A. One of the successful athletes was Walter William Francis, a Welshman, who won both the running and wrestling championships. Later, events often developed out of rehabilitation programs. Following the Second World War, in response to the needs of large numbers of injured ex-service members and civilians, sport was introduced as a key part of rehabilitation. Sport for rehabilitation grew into recreational sport and then into competitive sport. The pioneer of this approach was Sir Ludwig Guttmann of the Stoke Mandeville Hospital in England. In 1948, while the Olympic Games were being held in London, he organized a sports competition for wheelchair athletes at Stoke Mandeville. This was the origin of the Stoke Mandeville Games, from which evolved both the IWAS World Games and the Paralympic Games. The first official Paralympic Games, which were simultaneously the 9th International Stoke Mandeville Games ('international' having been added when Dutch service personal first took part in the Games in 1952), were held in Rome in 1960. The 2nd, 3rd and 4th Paralympic Games were simultaneously the 13th, 17th and 21st international Stoke Mandeville Games.\n\nIn 1975, the Paralympic Games expanded to include those with limb amputations and visual impairments. Individuals with cerebral palsy were allowed to compete beginning in 1980.\n\nCurrently, Paralympic sport is governed by the International Paralympic Committee, in conjunction with a wide range of other international sport organizations. Today, there are numerous sport opportunities throughout the United States for injured service members, including cycling, wheelchair tennis, shooting, wheelchair basketball, track and field, adapted water sports, and snow skiing. One such program is the Army Wounded Warrior Program, which offers sitting volleyball to injured service members. Some organizations also offer sport opportunities to family and friends of injured service members in addition to the members themselves.\n\nSport for persons with intellectual disabilities began to be organized in the 1960s through the Special Olympics movement. This grew out of a series of summer camps organized by Eunice Kennedy Shriver, beginning in 1962. In 1968 the first international Special Olympics were held, in Chicago. Today, Special Olympics provides training and competition in a variety of sports for persons with intellectual disabilities.\n\nSport for persons with physical disabilities began to be organized in the US in the late 1960s through Disabled Sports USA. Disabled Sports USA was established in 1967 by disabled military veterans, including Jim Winthers, to help rehabilitate the injured soldiers returning from Vietnam and originally named the National Amputee Skiers Association. In 1970, Hal O'Leary founded the National Sports Center for the Disabled (NSCD) at Winter Park in Colorado. Today, NSCD has 19 certified instructors and more than 1,000 volunteers. Disabled Sports USA has become one of the largest national multi-sport, multi-disability organizations in the United States, serving more than 60,000 wounded warriors, youth and adults annually.\n\nIn 1986, the International Sports Federation for Persons with Intellectual Disability (INAS-FID) was formed to support elite competition for athletes with intellectual disabilities. This was established in contrast to the more participative, \"sport for all\" approach of Special Olympics. For a time, athletes with intellectual disabilities were included in the Paralympic Games. After a cheating scandal at the 2000 Summer Paralympics, where a number of athletes participating in intellectual disability events were revealed to not be disabled, INAS-FID athletes were banned from Paralympic competition, but the ban on intellectually disabled athletes has since been lifted.\n\nIn 2006, the Extremity Games were formed for people with limb loss or limb difference to compete in extreme sports. College Park Industries, a manufacturer of prosthetic feet, organized this event to give amputee athletes a venue to compete in this increasingly popular sports genre also referred to as action sports. This annual event held in the summer in Orlando, FL includes competitions in skateboarding, wakeboarding, rock climbing, mountain biking, surfing, moto-x and kayaking. Various organizations, such as Paradox Sports, have arisen to help empower and inspire disabled people through equipping and welcoming them into the extreme sports community.\n\nAlso in 2006, The Federation de Internationale Powerchair Football Association and The United States Power Soccer Association were formed to standardize the rules of play and promote one of the few competitive team sports for motorized wheelchair users. Powerchair football (or power soccer).\n\nIn 2007, a group of San Diego, California-based athletes, coaches, volunteers, and parents split from Special Olympics Southern California to gain local control over disabled athletics programs. This group – SPORTS for Exceptional Athletes (S4EA) – serves people with developmental disabilities within the age range of 5 years old through adults. By combining people with and without disabilities, S4EA hopes that participating athletes will interact and form lasting bonds of friendship through shared sports and recreational activities in S4EA's served communities. Although the organization's focus is primarily San Diego County, S4EA has grown from this base to satellite programs in Ventura and Temecula, California.\n\nSince 1988, the International Olympic Committee has chosen to validate Disabled Sports (physical disabilities) and incorporate it as a part of the Games: the staging of the Paralympic Games immediately follows the Olympic Games. This scheduling helps to foster greater interest in disabled sports. An investigation published on a Swiss website has /shown that more and more International Sports Federations list disabled athletes than any other sportsmen or sportswomen.\n\nTwo Paralympic-style multi-sport events exist exclusively for wounded, injured or sick armed services personnel and veterans. These are the Warrior Games in the United States and the Invictus Games which originated in the United Kingdom.\n\nAdapted sports help society learn about disability. They also can help remove some of the stigma associated with having a disability.\n\nA wide range of sports have been adapted to be played by people with various disabilities, as well as several that are unique just to disabled athletes. Within each movement, different sports are practised at different levels; for example, not all sports in the Paralympic movement are part of the Paralympic Games. In addition, many sports are practiced by persons with a disability outside the formal sports movements.\n\nThere is evidence to support that the use of inspiratory muscle training (IMT) as a training intervention can be implemented to increase the aerobic fitness, respiratory function, and overall quality of life in this population of athletes. Long term physiological adaptations through prolonged training demonstrated within athletes with disabilities include increased respiratory volume, improved executive functions and increased reaction time among other benefits in relation to non athletes in the same age group.\n\nBeginning in the late 1980s and early 1990s, work began within several countries and organizations to include athletes with disabilities in the non-disabled sport system. This included adding events for athletes with disabilities to major games such as the Olympic Games and the Commonwealth Games, and integration of these athletes into non-disabled sports organizations.\nSince 1984, the Olympics have included exhibition events for Paralympic athletes. However, integration of full medal events has not taken place, and the status of athletes with a disability in the Olympic movement remains controversial.\nWithin the Commonwealth Games, athletes with a disability were first included in 1990 Auckland Commonwealth Games, then at the exhibition events in 1994, and at the 2002 Manchester Commonwealth Games they were included as full members of their national teams, making these the first fully inclusive international multi-sport games. This policy has continued with the 2006 Melbourne Commonwealth Games, where Canadian Chantal Petitclerc became the first athlete with a disability to carry her country's flag in the Opening Ceremonies of an integrated games.\nIndividual athletes such as swimmer Natalie du Toit and track athlete Oscar Pistorius have competed as equals against able bodied athletes at various events including the Olympic Games.\n\n2013 the FIFA decided that Austrian footballer Martin Hofbauer can continue to play competitive football with prosthetics after he lost his right lower leg due to cancer.\n\nThe self-determination theory has been one of the most proven theories on how athletes participate in competitions of this level. Studies have supported this theory especially in intellectually or developmentally disabled athletes. Studies have continued to question the motivation for joining such competitions like the Special Olympics as well as the Paralympic Games. The Motivations for joining the Special Olympics uncover themes among individuals and families for their participation or abstention from these Olympic programs.\n\nThere are specific strategies that may be employed to increase inclusion of people with disabilities in sports. This includes modifying rules or adapting activities for a particular individual. As well, maintaining a non-competitive focus helps to increase the inclusion of participants with disabilities.\n\nIncluding children with intellectual disabilities in sports programs in which they play with non-disabled athletes results in these children becoming more involved in mainstream sports, incorporating more physical activity in their daily lives and it increases their interactions with children who are not disabled. It is important for children with disabilities to get different types of support while participating in sports programs, for example, direct support from coaches and other athletes, indirect support from parents and non-human support from therapy dogs. Activities should be modified to suit different types of children's abilities and inclusivity is easier when activities are non-competitive.\n\n\"Unified sports\" involve teams made up of athletes with and without disabilities. Since the 1990s, Special Olympics Unified Sports have been promoting social inclusion through shared sports training and competition. This initiative has expanded globally and now involves more than 700,000 players in 127 countries worldwide. The principle behind Unified Sports is simple: training together and playing together is a quick path to friendship and understanding.\n\nThe NBA has been a major supporter of Unified Sports, sponsoring the annual NBA Cares Special Olympics Unified Basketball Game during the NBA All-Star Weekend. The Walt Disney Company, ESPN and Special Olympics are also working on a two-year global initiative that will leverage the power of sports to promote an environment of social inclusion and acceptance.\n\nDisabled drivers have competed in motorsport versus fully abled drivers, for example Alex Zanardi, Albert Llovera, Clay Regazzoni and Jason Watt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30639082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30639082", "title": "Doctor of Clinical Psychology", "text": "Doctor of Clinical Psychology\n\nThe degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy/DClinPsych/ClinPsyD) is a professional doctorate in clinical psychology, awarded mainly in the United Kingdom and Ireland. The degree has both clinical and research components, and qualifies the holder to practice as a clinical psychologist in Britain's National Health Service and other clinical settings. \nWhile it bears some similarities to the Doctor of Psychology degree in the United States, the research component means that US credentialing services consider it equivalent to a Doctor of Philosophy.\n\nIn Denmark the corresponding degree is called \"specialpsykolog\" (Special Psychologist) or \"specialist i **\" (Specialist Psychologist in **). \n\nIn the Netherlands the corresponding degree is \"gezondheidszorgpsycholoog\" (Healthcare Psychologist). \n\nIn Spain, the postgraduate training in Clinical Psychology is carried out as 4 years intern residence within the National Health System and the title obtained is \"Especialista en Psicología Clínica [Specialist in Clinical Psychology]\", usually abbreviated \"EPC\". \n\nIn Italy, postgraduate training leading to the professional licence to practice as a psychotherapist is carried out as a 5-year programme involving 400 hours of theoretical training and 400 hours of clinical practicum every year. Trainees are attached to clinical units of the Italian national health system and are required to spend part of their training carrying out research and defend their specialization thesis before an academic board, which will consider the conferment of the title of \"specialista\" in psychotherapy. Four different specialist degrees lead to the license as a psychotherapist: Specialist in Clinical Psychology, Specialist in Health Psychology, Specialist in Lifespan Psychology and Specialist in Neuropsychology.\n\nIn Ireland doctoral programmes in Clinical Psychology are accredited by the Psychological Society of Ireland. Irish universities offering professional doctoral programmes in Clinical Psychology include Trinity College Dublin, University College Dublin, and University College Cork,\n\nIn the United Kingdom, doctoral programmes in Clinical Psychology are accredited by the British Psychological Society and approved by the Health and Care Professions Council, the statutory regulator for practitioner psychologists and courses in the UK. The doctorate in clinical psychology programme normally lasts three years, and funding is provided by the National Health Service. A Doctorate in Clinical Psychology is necessary to register as a practitioner clinical psychologist with the Health and Care Professions Council.\n\nBritish universities offering professional doctoral programmes in Clinical Psychology include the University of Edinburgh, University of Glasgow, University of Hertfordshire, Lancaster University, University of East London, University of Sheffield, University of Liverpool, University College London, Newcastle University, Queen’s University Belfast, and the University of Oxford. There is a central clearinghouse for applications to Doctor of Clinical Psychology programmes, hosted by the University of Leeds. Information and discussion about the UK system of training in clinical psychology, the typical requirements needed to gain a place on a doctoral training course, and what the doctorate allows graduates to do can be found on the ClinPsy website and forum. \n\n"}
{"id": "42739390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42739390", "title": "Dune water", "text": "Dune water\n\nDune water is drinking water which has been pumped up from the dunes. Fresh rainwater filters through the sandy dunes and floats on top of the salt water from where it can be pumped up, purified, and used as fresh drinking water.\n\nIn 1851 a dune water company, Amsterdamsche Duinwater-Maatschappij, was founded in Amsterdam. This was the very first tap water company in the Netherlands. Since 1953 water was pumped from the dunes and transported to Amsterdam through a pipeline. Pumping up the fresh water from the dunes caused the ground water level to drop so in 1957 it was decided that river water had to infiltrated to replenish the supply. After the sand filtered the river water, it was pumped up and purified for human consumption. This Dutch process is unique in the world.\nSince 1975 the water is purified before infiltration. By using ozonisation and charcoal the Dutch purify their water without using chlorine. Tap water in the Netherlands is considered to be amongst the highest quality municipal waters in the world.\n\nDune water is used as drinking water in most of the coastal areas in the Netherlands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4683126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4683126", "title": "Fantome Island", "text": "Fantome Island\n\nFantome Island is one of the islands in the Great Palm Island group. It is neighboured by Great Palm Island and is north-east of Townsville, Queensland on the east coast of Australia. The Aboriginal name for this island is Eumilli Island. The island is small with an area of and is surrounded by a fringing reef.\n\nA Lock Hospital for the treatment of Indigenous patients suffering from venereal diseases was established on Fantome Island in 1928. This institution closed in 1945. In 1940 a leprosarium was established on the island; Upon its closure in 1973, it was purged by fire. The island is the site of 200 graves. The island was also a mission under the influence of Franciscan Missionaries of Mary\n\nIn 1932 the head of the Australian Institute of Tropical Medicine, Dr Raphael Cilento, described his vision for Fantome:\n\n\"The whole (local)population should be worked through Fantome & then regraded into new cases, incurable aged, incurable young & part cured & thence drafted when clean back into Palm from which they can be sent out into the mainland to be (1) assimilated if white enough; (2) employed under supervision & protection; or (3) kept on Palm as minor officials or peasant proprietors working personal strips around a collective farm\". (in Yarwood, 1991: 63)\n\nIn Queensland in 1920 there were 31 lepers and they were mostly Aborigines, though their numbers also included Torres Strait Islanders, Kanakas, Europeans and Asians. This figure represents a decline in the number of Aborigines contracting the disease of whom there had been 35 in 1910. The number of infected Aborigines rose to 36 in 1925, so it was obvious that leprosy was not about to disappear. The regions from which the new cases came were all in the north. A number of towns in the north such as Cherbourg, Taroom, Bundaberg, Innisfail and Ingham provided one leper each and two came from Cardwell. Leprosy had therefore become a disease of the north: no further new cases were reported from the southern areas of the State after 1925.\n\nIn 1907, a leprosarium to house all Queensland patients suffering from leprosy was established on Peel Island in Moreton Bay near Brisbane. In 1940, the indigenous patients were transferred from Peel Island to Fantome Island, under police escort and in conditions of great secrecy. The numbers of people admitted to Peel Island fluctuated during the mid-1920s and rose to 47 new cases in 1928. Although no new cases were reported in 1929 the reason might have been the secrecy with which this whole issue was managed by the Queensland Health authorities and the inability of the health regime to locate and track down the source of infection. This was not a simple problem and it persisted well into the next decade.\n\nDr Raphael Cilento endeavoured to describe the problem in one of his reports. He wrote that when Kuranda (Mona Mona) reserve started in 1914, the majority of the Aborigines brought there belonged to the Mareeba tribe, a closely knit group. There were a few others from as far north as the Gulf region and some from Mossman, and a large number had been born in fringe-camps and had grown up close to white settlement knowing no other life. The first case of leprosy reported among Aborigines in the region ‘was an old woman, Nellie, who died in 1916.’ According to native accounts this woman’s toes \"‘looked as if they would drop off’\", she \"‘was covered with sores’\", and she was avoided by other natives. Her principal contacts and relatives [were] known and she [had] no known descendants at the settlement.\nFatome Island has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "584452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584452", "title": "Fetal distress", "text": "Fetal distress\n\nIn medicine (obstetrics), the term fetal distress refers to the presence of signs in a pregnant woman—before or during childbirth—that suggest that the fetus may not be well. Because of its lack of precision, the term is eschewed in modern American obstetrics. \n\nGenerally it is preferable to describe specific signs in lieu of declaring \"fetal distress\" that include:\n\nSome of these signs are more reliable predictors of fetal compromise than others. For example, cardiotocography can give high false positive rates, even when interpreted by highly experienced medical personnel. Metabolic acidosis is a more reliable predictor, but is not always available.\n\nThere are many causes of \"fetal distress\" including:\n\nInstead of referring to \"fetal distress\", current recommendations hold to look for more specific signs and symptoms, assess them, and take the appropriate steps to remedy the situation through the implementation of intrauterine resuscitation. Traditionally the diagnosis of \"fetal distress\" led the obstetrician to recommend rapid delivery by instrumental delivery or by caesarean section if vaginal delivery is not advised.\n"}
{"id": "1862468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1862468", "title": "Gastrostomy", "text": "Gastrostomy\n\nGastrostomy is the creation of an artificial external opening into the stomach for nutritional support or gastric decompression.\nTypically this would include an incision in the patient's epigastrium as part of a formal operation. It can be performed through surgical approach, percutaneous approach by interventional radiology, or percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG).\n\nThe opening may be used for feeding, such as with a gastrostomy tube.\n\nThe Stamm gastrostomy is an open technique, requiring an upper midline laparotomy and gastrotomy, with the catheter brought out in the left hypochondrium. It was first devised in 1894 by the American Gastric Surgeon, Martin Stamm (1847–1918), who was educated greatly in surgery when he visited Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "24869379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24869379", "title": "Global Coalition Against Pneumonia", "text": "Global Coalition Against Pneumonia\n\nThe Global Coalition Against Child Pneumonia exists to raise global awareness about the deadly toll of the number 1 killer of children - pneumonia. Every year 155 million children under 5 get sick and 1.6 million lose their lives to pneumonia, more than all child deaths combined from AIDS, malaria and measles. Almost all of these child deaths occur in developing countries with most concentrated in just seven - India, China, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Pakistan and Afghanistan.\n\nChildren die from pneumonia despite the existence of vaccines that can prevent the leading causes of pneumonia and cost-effective antibiotics that can treat children who are sick. The Global Coalition Against Child Pneumonia is working to save millions of lives through protecting children against pneumonia with proper nutrition through exclusive breastfeeding, preventing pneumonia with new and existing vaccines, particularly Hib vaccine and Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and treating pneumonia by training health workers to recognize symptoms of pneumonia and increasing access to appropriate antibiotic treatment.\n\nWHO and UNICEF estimate that these interventions, combined with others, could save 1 million children's lives every year taking the world one big step closer to achieving Millennium Development Goals.\n\nPneumonia has been overshadowed as a priority on the global health agenda, and rarely receives coverage in the news media. To combat this, the Global Coalition against Child Pneumonia is raising a collective voice to renew the global fight against pneumonia by holding World Pneumonia Day every year. It will provide an annual forum for the world to stand together and demand action in the fight against pneumonia. The first World Pneumonia Day was held on November 2, 2009 and in 2010 World Pneumonia Day falls on November 12. World Pneumonia Day will help bring this health crisis to the public’s attention and will encourage policy makers and grass roots organizers alike to combat the disease.\n\nThe WHO, UNICEF and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) offer technical assistance to the Global Coalition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4690500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4690500", "title": "Greg Ellis (musician)", "text": "Greg Ellis (musician)\n\nGreg Ellis is an American drummer and percussionist, known for his work in film and world music, living in Los Angeles. He has performed and recorded with artists from almost every continent, including Zakir Hussain, Airto, KODO, Mickey Hart’s Planet Drum, Juno Reactor, Billy Idol, Sonu Nigam, Sussan Deyhim, Hamed Nikpay, Bickram Ghosh, Chiwoniso Maraire, Sugizo and many more.\n\nAt the start of his career as a touring and session drummer, Ellis discovered hand percussion after reading Mickey Hart’s “Drumming At The Edge Of Magic.” He began collecting percussion instruments during his travels around the world as a touring musician. The instruments and music from these cultures sensitized Ellis to a different form of melody and composition than his Western classical background offered. Ellis started composing music around rhythm.\n\nHe eventually formed the music duo Vas and signed with Narada/Virgin in 1997. Vas went on to release four successful and critically acclaimed albums as well as a solo CD ‘Kala Rupa.’ His percussion work in Vas drew the attention of some of the top film composers and Ellis is now a featured performer on over 100 film scores.\n\nAs a passionate advocate for the healing and therapeutic aspects of organic sound and rhythm, Ellis co-created RhythmPharm, a space to receive organic rhythm and sound therapy. Through RhythmPharm, he released the 7-CD box set of ‘Rhythm Tonics,’ which are used by both alternative and mainstream health practitioners worldwide. RhythmPharm is also a platform for Ellis to express his deepening concern of the adverse effects electronic rhythm is having on culture and society as a whole.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1427438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1427438", "title": "Healthcare in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Healthcare in the Republic of Ireland\n\nHealth care in Ireland is two-tier: public and private sectors exist. The public health care system is governed by the Health Act 2004, which established a new body to be responsible for providing health and personal social services to everyone living in Ireland – the Health Service Executive. The new national health service came into being officially on 1 January 2005; however the new structures are currently in the process of being established as the reform programme continues. In addition to the public-sector, there is also a large private healthcare market.\n\nIn 2010 Ireland spent €2,862 per capita on health, compared to a European Union average of €2,172 per capita, of this spending approximately 79% was government expenditure.\n\nAll persons resident in Ireland are entitled to receive health care through the public health care system, which is managed by the Health Service Executive and funded by general taxation. A person may be required to pay a subsidised fee for certain health care received; this depends on income, age, illness or disability. All maternity services and child care up to the age of six months are provided free of charge. Emergency care is provided at a cost of €100 for a visit to the Accident and Emergency department.\n\nThe \"Medical Card\" – which entitles holders to free hospital care, GP visits, dental services, optical services, aural services, prescription drugs and medical appliances- is available to those receiving welfare payments, low earners, and in certain other cases. The only medical conditions carrying automatic entitlement to a Card are having thalidomide syndrome, having a surgical symphysiotomy, and children with cancer. Many political parties support extending the availability of the Medical Card to eventually cover everyone resident in Ireland – they currently cover 31.9% of the population. Those on slightly higher incomes are eligible for a 'GP Visit Card' which entitles the holder to free general practitioner visits. Persons over 70 years who are not entitled to a medical GP visit card can instead receive an annual cash grant of €400 up to a certain income.\n\nPeople who are not entitled to a Medical Card (i.e. 68.1% of the population) must pay fees for certain health care services. There is a €100 A&E charge for those who attend an accident and emergency department without a referral letter from a family doctor (a visit to which usually costs €45–75, though some practices offer rates as low as €25-35 for over-65s and students). Hospital charges (for inpatients) are a flat fee of €80 per day up to a maximum of €800 in any twelve-month period, irrespective of the actual care received. Specialist assessments and diagnostic assessments (such as X-rays, laboratory tests, physiotherapy, etc.) are provided free of charge. If a person cannot afford to pay hospital charges, the HSE will provide the services free of charge. Under the Drugs Payment Scheme, prescription drugs, individuals and families are eligible for subsidies for approved prescription drugs, medicines, and certain appliances, and pay only a maximum of €134 per month per household. To qualify a patient must hold a Drugs Payment Scheme Card, for which everyone who does not hold a Medical Card is eligible.\n\nEveryone living in the country, and visitors to Ireland who hold a European Health Insurance Card, are entitled to use the public healthcare system. Under Common Travel Area (CTA) arrangements, British citizens do not require an EHIC card and can instead present their NHS number, NHS card, driving licence or other proof of residence within the CTA. Outpatient services are also provided without charge. The majority of patients on median incomes or above are required to pay subsidised hospital charges.\n\nHospitals in Ireland generally offer a full range of healthcare including accident and emergency services. Many hospitals in Ireland, such as Connolly Hospital at Blanchardstown, are operated directly by the Health Service Executive. There are also hospitals run on a voluntary basis by organisations who receive public funding but operate with some degree of autonomy. Included in this latter group are teaching hospitals (such as University Hospital Galway) operated in conjunction with a university and hospitals with a long-standing religious ethos e.g. Adelaide and Meath Hospital in Dublin. There are also many private hospitals. Ireland has a lower than OECD-average number of hospital beds according to the 2013 OECD Health at a Glance Report The same report also noted that Ireland has fewer doctors (2.7 doctors per 1,000 population) and more nurses (12.2 nurses per 1,000 population) than average in other OECD countries.\n\nIreland has reduced its spending on health care by 6.6% since the onset of the Global Financial Crisis according to the OECD's 2013 Health Report. In consequence, waiting times for treatment have increased.\n\nAccording to the Euro health consumer index waiting times for emergency treatment, minor operations, and CT scans, in Irish hospitals in 2015 were the worst in Europe, though the Irish health system was ranked 21st out of 35 European countries. The Health Service Executive accepted that it lacked the capacity to provide sufficiently accessible health services. It was working to ensure that no one had to wait more than 18 months for an outpatient appointment, or inpatient treatment. According to the index, reports by patients on waiting times were considerably more pessimistic than official Irish waiting-time statistics.\n\nIn 2007, 76% of inpatients were admitted to hospital for operations immediately, 11% had to wait up to one month, 4% had to wait up to three months, 1% had to wait up to six months and 4% had to wait for over six months for operations. Waiting times at the National Rehabilitation Hospital, the only such facility in the country, can be one year. For outpatients, 23% were seen on time, 44% were seen within 30 minutes, 18% waited more than an hour and 7% waited two hours.\nIn 2007, for GP services, 31% were seen without an appointment, 38% received an appointment the same day, 28% received a next day appointment and 3% had to wait over two days to be seen.\n\nThe National Treatment Purchase Fund (NTPF) was set up in 2002 for those waiting over three months for an operation or procedure, and as a result over 135,000 patients on waiting lists have been treated so far. The NTPF involves the government paying for public patients to be treated for free in a private hospital in Ireland, or sometimes abroad if necessary. The NTPF has reduced waiting times for procedures to an average of between two and five months (the average in 2009 is 2.4 months), compared to between two and five years in 2002. There are cases where essential care is needed urgently but not made available by the HSE under their NTPF, and contrary to relevant judgements by the European Court of Justice.\n\nHSE figures quoted in April 2012 show that at least 178,000 people in Ireland were on waiting lists to see specialists at an outpatient clinic, and that more than 300 patients had been waiting for over four years to be seen by a consultant after being referred by their GP.\n\nHealth centres provide a wide range of primary care and community services in towns and villages throughout Ireland, and are run by the HSE. Services available at these clinics include GP services, public health nurses, social work and child protection services, child health services, community welfare, disability services, older people services, chiropody, ophthalmic, speech therapy, addiction counselling and treatment, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, psychiatric services, and \"Home Help\". These services are available for free, or at a subsidised rate.\n\nIn 2012 a programme of developing 35 primary care centres was announced. By July 2017 only one was operational. 14 are to be constructed by public-private partnerships.\n\nPrimary health care in Ireland is mostly provided by general practitioners (GPs), who generally operate as sole traders or in health centres with other GPs and sometimes nurses. Most GPs also offer house visits to their patients, with emergency \"out-of-hours\" GP services available in all parts of the country. GPs generally charge on a per consultation fee basis, usually charging anything up to €80, depending on the region. People with Medical Cards or GP Visit Cards are exempt from charges. Many GPs also provide free services to those with hepatitis C and maternity and infant services. Those with private health insurance can, depending on their plan, have their GP costs paid or refunded, either fully or partially, by the insurance company. People can also claim tax relief for GP visit costs.\n\nPrescription drugs and medical appliances are available to all for a small fee (medical card holders), reduced cost (Drugs Payment Scheme) or in certain circumstances free (under the Long Term Illness Scheme) to residents of Ireland. The \"Drugs Payment Scheme\" ensures that every household only has to pay a maximum of €134 per calendar month for up to one month's supply of prescribed medicines and medical appliances. Some private health insurance plans provide partial reimbursement up to the \"Drugs Payment Scheme\" threshold. Those who are entitled to a medical card pay a government levy for each item dispensed. The levy is €2.00 up to a maximum of €20 per family per calendar month. Those who are suffering from one of a list of 16 long-term illnesses do not have to pay for medicines or medical appliances related to their conditions. Ireland has below average use of generic medication according to the OECD, despite being a major exporter.\n\nAll immunisation vaccines for children are provided free of charge, in schools, health clinics and hospitals.\n\nRecovering heroin addicts can receive methadone treatment free of charge under the \"Methadone Treatment Scheme\".\n\nThe HSE provide dental, optical (vision) and aural (hearing) health care. Medical Card holders and their dependents, \"Health Amendment Act\" Card holders and children get these services free. Other people can get these services free or at a reduced cost from the \"Treatment Benefit Scheme\" or private insurance. People who pay the full price to private practitioners can claim tax relief.\n\nThe HSE also provide mental health services, and treatment and rehabilitation services for alcohol and drug addicts. The Irish healthcare system is often criticized for not providing sufficient services for those with mental health issues, leading to a rapidly growing suicide rate, and ineffective services delivered to young people.\n\nThose without a Medical Card or private health insurance, and their dependants can receive medical services free or at a subsidised rate from the \"Treatment Benefit Scheme\", which takes into account the compulsory \"Social Insurance Fund (PRSI)\" contributions they have made. People can also claim tax relief on medical expenses not covered by the State or by private health insurance. Those with private health insurance are provided with tax credits, which are passed directly to the insurance company and lower the customer's premium.\n\nVisitors to Ireland who hold a European Health Insurance Card do not have to pay for emergency treatment from a general practitioner or specialist, emergency dental, oral or aural treatment, inpatient or outpatient hospital treatment or prescription medicines. Those who need dialysis, oxygen therapy or other specialised treatments can arrange for them before their visit.\n\nA survey, commissioned by the HSE in 2007, found that patient satisfaction with the health service was quite high, with 90% of inpatients and 85% of outpatients saying they were satisfied with their treatment. In addition to this, 97% said they were satisfied with the care provided by their GP.\n\nThe 2008 Health Consumer Powerhouse \"Euro Health Consumer Index\" report ranked Ireland's public healthcare system 11th out of 31 European countries. This is an improvement on the 2007 report which ranked the Ireland 16th out of 29 countries, and a drastic improvement on the 2006 report, in which Ireland was ranked 26th out of 26 countries.\n\nThe Health Service Executive (HSE) manages the delivery of the entire health service as a single national entity.\n\nThere are four HSE administrative areas (HSE Dublin Mid-Leinster, HSE Dublin North-East, HSE South and HSE West), which are in turn divided into 32 Local Health Offices (LHOs).\n\nThe HSE is Ireland's largest employer with over 100,000 workers; and has an annual budget of €16 billion, more than any other public sector organisation.\n\nThe HSE's organisational structure is divided into three main areas:\n\nThe Minister for Health has responsibility for setting overall policy with regard to the health service.\n\nPrivate health insurance is available to the population for those who want to avail of it. Vhi Healthcare (which is part-owned by the government), Laya Healthcare, and Aviva provide health insurance, among other services. Quote Devil were set up in 2006 to provide health insurance amongst other insurance types. On 2 July 2012, GloHealth entered the market to become Ireland's fourth private health insurer.\n\nIn 2005, 47.6% of people were covered by private health insurance. The regulatory body for private health insurance is the Health Insurance Authority. In 2015 the proportion of people buying private health insurance had fallen to 40%, but this is still the highest proportion of any European country.\n\nThe Hospital Saturday Fund (HSF) is also available to give customers cash towards a range of every day health care costs.\n\nDue to the high share of out-of-pocket payments under the existing health service system, the Republic of Ireland represents the only state within the EU, which does not provide universal healthcare based on the criteria by the WHO. The newly elected Irish government committed itself in March 2011 to reform the two-tier structure of national health service in response to public discontent with austerity measures from 2008 onwards. Since public funding of health provision was reduced between 2009 and 2013 to meet payment obligations regarding the state's budget deficit, citizens faced higher medical charges and extended waiting lists. In reaction to this development, the coalition government of Fine Gael and the Labour Party declared to introduce “a universal single-tiered health service, which guarantees access based on need, not income… through Universal Health Insurance.” The published government plan outlined in the 2014 document “The Path to UHC – The White Paper” foresaw introducing compulsory private health insurance based on managed competition between insurance companies to abolish the distinction between public and private patient status. Key features of the policy entailed mandatory health insurance for every citizen under free choice of insurer as well as entitlement to the same package of care, covering primary and acute hospital services. Further, patients should be charged in turn insurance premium irrespective of age or risk profile and additionally have the right to change their insurance membership on an annual basis. Those citizen, who are unable to afford the amount of premium would have qualified for subsidies to cover the required premium payments by a National Insurance fund.\n\nThe implementation of the proposed model of universal health insurance was supposed to be conducted by 2019. However, after a public consultation procedure regarding the reform initiatives the plan of universal health insurance was abandoned by the Irish administration in November 2015 due to projections that the envisaged system would be too costly and would still require the highest share of funds by general taxation. According to the state department of health, the implied costs of universal health insurance would have led to approximately 11% higher expenditures than the existing system. After the Irish parliamentary election of 2016, Fine Gael formed a minority government supported by independent parliamentarians. Social Democrat TD Róisín Shortall founded in June 2016 an all-party “Committee on the Future of Healthcare” following an initiative by the health department with the aim to identify an appropriate approach for establishing universal healthcare in Ireland. The committee was supported by an academic team from Trinity College Dublin to analyse submissions made within 30 public hearings in the course of the public consultation process. In May 2017 the committee published its final report entitled “Committee on the Future of Health, Sláintecare Report”, which specified universal healthcare based on the following definition:\n\nThe document entails a proposed ten-year plan for reforming the Irish health system towards universal healthcare. It consists of five sections, covering \"Population health profile, Entitlements and Access to Healthcare, Integrated care, Funding\" and \"Implementation.\" The report foresees the provision of health cards called Carta Sláinte to every citizen, granting access to primary care free of charges at specified local entities preferably outside of hospitals. This system is planned to be funded by taxation, requiring an increase of public health spending and further infrastructure investment of approximately 3 billion Euros. The submitted plan was debated twice in the parliament in 2017 and the Irish government decided to found an official implementation office to appoint a head of the organisation as well as to develop a drafted implementation plan by December 2017. However, as of June 2018 neither the document was published nor the lead to the office was appointed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31157739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31157739", "title": "Howard Bauchner", "text": "Howard Bauchner\n\nHoward C. Bauchner, vice chairman of pediatrics at the Boston University School of Medicine, is the editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" since July 1, 2011.\n\nHe has been editor-in-chief of \"Archives of Disease in Childhood\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43179449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43179449", "title": "International Society of Drug Bulletins", "text": "International Society of Drug Bulletins\n\nThe International Society of Drug Bulletins works to increase the sharing of high quality information on medical treatments and medication between countries. It was started in 1986 and is supported by the World Health Organization.\n\nTo be a member publishers must have a certain level of independence from conflicts of interest and publish at least quarterly.\n\nMembers include: Australian Prescriber, La revue Prescrire, Drug and Therapeutics Bulletin, Therapeutics Initiative, Worst Pills Best Pills and Arzneiverordnung in der Praxis among others.\n"}
{"id": "2576212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2576212", "title": "James Bridie", "text": "James Bridie\n\nJames Bridie (3 January 1888 in Glasgow – 29 January 1951 in Edinburgh) was the pseudonym of the Scottish playwright, screenwriter and surgeon whose real name was Osborne Henry Mavor. He took his pen-name from his paternal grandfather's first name and his grandmother's maiden name.\n\nMavor studied medicine at the University of Glasgow graduating in 1913, then served as a military doctor during World War I, seeing service in France and Mesopotamia. His comedic plays saw success in London, and he became a full-time writer in 1938. Despite this, he returned to the army during World War II, again serving as a doctor.\n\nHe was the main founder of the Citizens Theatre in Glasgow, with his cousin, the author Guy McCrone and was also instrumental in the establishment of the Edinburgh Festival.\n\nBridie worked with the director Alfred Hitchcock in the late 1940s. They worked together on:\n\n\nIn 1923, he married Rona Locke Bremner (1897–1985). Their son was killed in World War II. His other son Ronald (1925–2007) was also both a physician and playwright. Ronald became drama critic of \"The Scotsman\" after retiring from medicine, Director of the Scottish Arts Council and Deputy Chairman of the Edinburgh Festival. He was Professor of Drama and Head of the Drama Department at the University of Saskatchewan and was appointed C.B.E. in 1971.\n\nJames Bridie died in Edinburgh of a stroke and is buried in Glasgow Western Necropolis. The Bridie Library at the Glasgow University Union is named after him, as is the annual Bridie Dinner that takes place in the Union each December.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10044711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10044711", "title": "Jonathan's Law", "text": "Jonathan's Law\n\nJonathan's Law, a New York statute co-sponsored by Harvey Weisenberg signed into law in May 2007, by governor Eliot Spitzer, entitles parents and legal guardians access to all child abuse investigation files and medical history records.\n\nThe legislative measure is intended to hold residential mental health facilities accountable by requiring notification of guardians in cases of ill treatment, and requires written reports of ensuing investigations. Jonathan's Law was sponsored by Assemblyman Harvey Weisenberg (D–Long Beach) and State Sen. Thomas P. Morahan (R–New City); Mike and Lisa Carey, the parents of Jonathan Carey, promoted Jonathan's Law. Jonathan Carey, who had severe autism, was abused and neglected at school and later killed by a direct care worker. Jonathan was tragically killed by his caregivers in a different New York State run facility called OD Heck located in Schenectady, New York.\n\nThe State of New York's OPWDD prevented the family of Jonathan Carey from accessing records relating to their son, who had been diagnosed with autism. Jonathan attended the private Anderson School in Dutchess County in 2004. The Anderson School specializes in the education of children on the autism spectrum. In 2004 Jonathan was abused and neglected at that school. Being nonverbal, Jonathan was unable to tell his parents what had happened to him. He couldn't process any of the words of what he was feeling at the moment, being as he had severe autism. In 2007 he was killed by a direct care worker.\n\n\"Jonathan's Law\" is the \"popular name\" of the amendments to New York Mental Hygiene Law Article 33.\n\nGives parents and guardians of developmentally-disabled people who live in government facilities access to records concerning abuse allegations. Records must be produced within three weeks after an investigation is closed.\n\nMandates telephone notification, within 24 hours of an incident, to parents or guardians, followed by a written report within ten days.\n\nRequires facility directors to meet with parents and/or guardians to discuss reported incidents.\n\nIncreases fines for noncompliance to $1,000 per day, and up to $15,000 per violation.\n\nOMRDD officials cautioned the New York legislature about passing Jonathan's Law without sufficient consideration, citing privacy concerns, adding that rushing their decision could be detrimental, asserting that whistleblowers will be less likely to come forward if their accusations become public.\n\nAccording to advocates supporting Jonathan's Law, everyone deserves safety and quality medical care. They have argued that parents of individuals deemed unable to protect themselves must be allowed reasonable access to transparent records, thereby enabling families to ensure quality of care for their loved ones.\n\n\nhttp://www.einnews.com/pr_news/356446308/anderson-school-center-for-autism-has-history-of-abuse-of-children-with-autism\n"}
{"id": "55591832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55591832", "title": "Legality of psychoactive cactus by country", "text": "Legality of psychoactive cactus by country\n\nThis is a list of the legality of psychoactive cactus by country. This includes but is not limited to the Peyote, the San Pedro and the Peruvian Torch.\n"}
{"id": "21962154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21962154", "title": "Malnutrition in India", "text": "Malnutrition in India\n\nDespite India's 50% increase in GDP since 1991, more than one third of the world's malnourished children live in India. Among these, half of the children under three years old are underweight and a third of wealthiest children are over-nutriented.\n\nOne of the major causes for malnutrition in India is economic inequality. Due to the low social status of some population groups, their diet often lacks in both quality and quantity. Women who suffer malnutrition are less likely to have healthy babies. Deficiencies in nutrition inflict long-term damage to both individuals and society. Compared with their better-fed peers, nutrition-deficient individuals are more likely to have infectious diseases such as pneumonia and tuberculosis, which lead to a higher mortality rate. In addition, nutrition-deficient individuals are less productive at work. Low productivity not only gives them low pay that traps them in a vicious circle of under-nutrition, but also brings inefficiency to the society, especially in India where labour is a major input factor for economic production. On the other hand, over-nutrition also has severe consequences. In India national obesity rates in 2010 were 14% for women and 18% for men with some urban areas having rates as high as 40%. Obesity causes several non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancers and chronic respiratory diseases.\n\nThe World Bank estimates that India is one of the highest ranking countries in the world for the number of children suffering from malnutrition. The prevalence of underweight children in India is among the highest in the world, and is nearly double that of Sub Saharan Africa with dire consequences for mobility, mortality, productivity and economic growth.\n\nThe 2017 Global Hunger Index (GHI) Report by IFPRI ranked India 100th out of 118 countries with a serious hunger situation. Amongst South Asian nations, it ranks third behind only Afghanistan and Pakistan with a GHI score of 29.0 (\"serious situation\").\n\nIndia is one of the fastest growing countries in terms of population and economics, sitting at a population of 1.342 billion and growing at 1.5%–1.7% annually (from 2001–2007). India's Gross Domestic Product growth was 9.0% from 2007 to 2008; since Independence in 1947, its economic status has been classified as a low-income country with majority of the population at or below the poverty line.\n\nThough most of the population is still living below the National Poverty Line, its economic growth indicates new opportunities and a movement towards increase in the prevalence of chronic diseases which is observed in at high rates in developed countries such as United States, Canada and Australia. The combination of people living in poverty and the recent economic growth of India has led to the co-emergence of two types of malnutrition: undernutrition and overnutrition.\n\nOn the Global Hunger Index India is on place 67 among the 80 nations having the worst hunger situation which is worse than nations such as North Korea or Sudan. 25% of all hungry people worldwide live in India. Since 1990 there has been some improvements for children but the proportion of hungry in the population has increased. In India 44% of children under the age of 5 are underweight. 72% of infants and 52% of married women have anaemia. Research has conclusively shown that malnutrition during pregnancy causes the child to have increased risk of future diseases, physical retardation, and reduced cognitive abilities.\n\nMany factors, including region, religion and caste affect the nutritional status of Indians. Living in rural areas also contribute to nutritional status.\n\nIn general, those who are poor are at risk for under-nutrition, in India while those who have high socio-economic status are relatively more likely to be over-nourished. Anaemia is negatively correlated with wealth.\n\nWhen it comes to child malnutrition, children in low-income families are more malnourished than those in high-income families.PDS system in India which account for distribution of wheat and rice only,by which the proteins are insufficient by these cereals which leads to malnutrition also. Some cultural beliefs that may lead to malnutrition is religion. Among these is the influence of religions, especially in India are restricted from consuming meat. Also, other Indians are strictly vegan, which means, they do not consume any sort of animal product, including dairy and eggs. This is a serious problem when inadequate protein is consumed because 56% of poor Indian household consume cereal to consume protein. It is observed that the type of protein that cereal contains does not parallel to the proteins that animal product contain (Gulati, 2012). This phenomenon is most prevalent in the rural areas of India where more malnutrition exists on an absolute level. Whether children are of the appropriate weight and height is highly dependent on the socio-economic status of the population. Children of families with lower socio-economic standing are faced with sub-optimal growth. While children in similar communities have shown to share similar levels of nutrition, child nutrition is also differential from family to family depending on the mother's characteristic, household ethnicity and place of residence. It is expected that with improvements in socio-economic welfare, child nutrition will also improve.\n\nUnder-nutrition is more prevalent in rural areas, again mainly due to low socio-economic status. Anaemia for both men and women is only slightly higher in rural areas than in urban areas. For example, in 2005, 40% of women in rural areas, and 36% of women in urban areas were found to have mild anaemia. In urban areas, overweight status and obesity are over three times as high as rural areas.\n\nIn terms of geographical regions, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Bihar have very high rates of under-nutrition. States with lowest percentage of under-nutrition include Mizoram, Sikkim, Manipur, Kerala, Punjab, and Goa, although the rate is still considerably higher than that of developed nations. Further, anaemia is found in over 70% of individuals in the states of Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana, and Jharkhand. Less than 50% of individuals in Goa, Manipur, Mizoram, and Kerala have anaemia.\n\nPunjab, Kerala, and Delhi face the highest rate of overweight and obese individuals.\n\nStudies show that individuals belonging to Hindu or Muslim backgrounds in India tend to be more malnourished than those from Christian, Sikh or Jain backgrounds.\n\nDual burden is characterized as undernutrition in the form of obesity or underweight, existing within an individual and/or at a societal level. On an individual level, a person can be obese, yet lack enough nutrients for proper nutrition. On a societal level, the dual burden refers to populations containing both overweight and underweight individuals co-existing. Women in India share a substantial proportion of the dual burden on malnutrition. The primary causes of whether a woman falls into the obese or underweight under-nutritional category is dependent on the socioeconomic status of the individual, and dependent on rural or urban populations. Women with higher economic means in urban areas fall into obese and overnourished category, while conversely lower income women in rural areas are underweight and undernourished. A consistent factor among dual burden outcomes relates primarily to food security issues. Access to healthy and nutritious foods within India has been increasingly replaced by a large supply of high-calorie, low-nutrient foods. The existence of the dual malnutrition problems suggests a need for policy makers to support options which measure nutritional output, as opposed to calories, when deciding policies to ensure a well fed society.\n\nA strong connection has been found with malnutrition and domestic violence, in particular high levels of anemia and undernutrition. Domestic violence comes in the form of psychological and physical abuse, as a control mechanism towards behaviors within families. This control affects a woman's autonomy to make decisions in regards to providing food, what type and amount, which leads to adverse nutrition results for herself, and family members. Psychological stress also affects anemia through a process labeled oxidative stress. In moments of high stress, free radicals are produced which attack healthy red blood cells, therefore lowering hemoglobin blood levels and producing anemic malnutrition. Additionally, physiological or chronic stress is strongly correlated in women being underweight.\n\nThe Government of India has launched several programs to converge the growing rate of under nutrition children. They include ICDS, NCF, National Health Mission.\n\nThe Indian government started midday meal scheme on 15 August 1995. It serves millions of children with fresh cooked meals in almost all the government run schools or schools aided by the government fund.\n\nApart from this Food for Life Annamrita run by ISKCON Food Relief Foundation and the Akshaya Patra Foundation run the world's largest NGO-run midday meal programmes, each serving freshly cooked plant-based meals to over 1.3 million school children in government and government-aided schools in India. These programmes are conducted with part subsidies from the government and partly with donations from individuals and corporations. The meals served by Food for Life Annamrita and Akshaya Patra complies with the nutritional norms given by the government of India and aims to eradicate malnutrition among children in India. Food for Life Annamrita is the premier affiliate of Food for Life Global the world's largest free food relief network, with projects in over 60 countries.\n\nThe government of India started a program called Integrated Child Development Services (Integrated Child Development Services) in 1975. ICDS has been instrumental in improving the health of mothers and children under age 6 by providing health and nutrition education, health services, supplementary food, and pre-school education. ICDS is run by India's central government via the Ministry of Women and Child Development, targeting rural, urban and tribal populations and has reached over 70 million young children and 16 million pregnant and lactating mothers.\n\nOther programs impacting under-nutrition include the National Midday Meal Scheme, the National Rural Health Mission, and the Public Distribution System (PDS). The challenge for these programs and schemes is how to increase efficiency, impact, and coverage.\n\nBal Kuposhan Mukta Bihar (BKMB) is a campaign launched by Department of Social Welfare, government of Bihar in 2014. The campaign is based on five Cs:\n\nThe multi-pronged strategy shows that a health issue like malnutrition can be tackled with the help of behviour change communication (BCC) and other social aspects.\n\nThe National Children's Fund was created during the International Year of the Child in 1979 under the Charitable Endowment Fund Act, 1890. This Fund provides support to the voluntary organisations that help the welfare of kids. \n\nIndia is a signatory to the 27 survival and development goals laid down by the World Summit on children 1990. In order to implement these goals, the Department of Women & Child Development has formulated a National Plan of Action on Children. Each concerned Central Ministries/Departments, State Governments/U.Ts. and Voluntary Organisations dealing with women and children have been asked to take up appropriate measures to implement the Action Plan. These goals have been integrated into National Development Plans. A Monitoring Committee under the Chairpersonship of Secretary (Women & Child Development) reviews the achievement of goals set in the National Plan of Action. All concerned Central Ministries/Departments are represented on the Committee.\n\n15 State Govts. have prepared State Plan of Action on the lines of National Plan of Action specifying targets for 1995 as well as for 2000 and spelling out strategies for holistic child development.\n\nDepartment of Women and Child Development is the nodal department for UNICEF. India is associated with UNICEF since 1949 and is now in the fifth decade of cooperation for assisting most disadvantaged children and their mothers. Traditionally, UNICEF has been supporting India in a number of sectors like child development, women's development, urban basic services, support for community based convergent services, health, education, nutrition, water & sanitation, childhood disability, children in especially difficult circumstances, information and communication, planning and programme support. India was a member of the UNICEF Executive Board till 31 December 1997. The board has 3 regular sessions and one annual session in a year. Strategies and other important matters relating to UNICEF are discussed in those meetings. A meeting of Government of India and UNICEF officials was concurred on 12 November 1997 to finalise the strategy and areas for programme of cooperation for the next Master Plan of operations 1999–2002 which is to synchronise with the Ninth Plan of Government of India.\n\nThe National Rural Health Mission of India mission was created for the years 2005–2012, and its goal is to \"improve the availability of and access to quality health care by people, especially for those residing in rural areas, the poor, women, and children.\"\n\nThe subset of goals under this mission are:\n\nThe mission has set up strategies and action plan to meet all of its goals.\n\nDespite of economic growth in India, India’s hunger is still worse than North Korea or Sudan. And a child raised in India is more likely to be malnourished than Somalia. Various studies suggest that the biggest reason for India’s malnutrition is poor sanitation. Because of poor sanitation situation, more children in India than North Korea, Sudan and Somalia are exposed to bacteria. The bacteria sickens them, and makes it hard for children to consume food therefore missing out on nutrients and resultin in malnutrition. 620 million people in India don’t have a toilet in their house and they use public toilet or just outside. In addition, the air quality in India is among the worst in the world. And it leads to more poor sanitation.\nUNICEF is recognizing the poor sanitation as one of the reasons for malnutrition. In 2012, UNICEF made a report that malnutrition is based entirely on lack of the food. But now, UNICEF and many charitable organizations are saying that poor sanitation is one of the biggest reasons of malnutrition.\nCurrently, the India government is working to solve malnutrition problem by making more foods. But a lot of authorities in India are saying they should change their plan for malnutrition based on sanitation problem. India has the highest number of children stunted because of malnutrition (48.2 million) equivalent to Colombia's population, according to Save the Children's 'Stolen Childhoods' report.31 million of children are part of India's workforce, the highest in the world.These two factors along with the lack of education and early marriage/parenthood pushed India to 116th place among 172 countries assessed for threats to childhood.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "38824110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38824110", "title": "Match Day (medicine)", "text": "Match Day (medicine)\n\nMatch Day is a term used widely in the graduate medical education community to represent the day when the National Resident Matching Program or NRMP releases results to applicants seeking residency and fellowship training positions in the United States. Match Day for the NRMP Main Residency Match is on the third Friday of March each year, and Match Day ceremonies occur at many of the 155 medical schools in the United States where those results are announced. Match Days for the NRMP Fellowship Matches occur throughout the year because each Fellowship Match has its own schedule of dates. Other national matching plans like the American Osteopathic Association (AOA), American Urological Association, and the San Francisco Match (Ophthalmology and Plastic Surgery) have dates on which they release their results. By participating in a national matching plan, applicants contractually agree to attend the residency, internship or fellowship programs to which they match. The same agreement applies to the programs; they are obligated to train the applicants who match to them. In 2017, Match Day hit a record-high as 35,969 U.S. and international medical school students and graduates vied for 31,757 residency positions.\n\nIn the United States, applicants and programs that register with the NRMP participate in a process known as \"the Match.\" Applicants for the NRMP Main Residency Match usually begin the application process in the summer, and programs review applications and invite selected candidates for interviews held between October and February. After the interview period is over, applicants submit to the NRMP a \"rank-order list\" of programs where they wish to train. Similarly, residency programs submit a rank order list of applicants they prefer to train. The process is blinded so that neither applicants nor programs see each other's rank order lists. Aggregate Match results can be found on the NRMP public website. \n\nThe two parties' rank order lists are processed using the NRMP's matching algorithm, which creates stable (a proxy for optimal) matches between applicants and programs.\n\nOn the Monday prior to Match Day for the Main Residency Match, applicants find out from the NRMP if (but not where) they matched. Applicants who match to a training position must wait until the Match Day on Friday to learn the location of that position. Applicants who do not match to a training position in the Main Residency Match may be eligible to obtain an unfilled position through the Match Week Supplemental Offer and Acceptance Program that concludes on Thursday, the day prior to Match Day.\n\nAlthough the majority of U.S. medical school seniors match to one of their top three program choices, applicants may match to programs lower on their rank order list, especially when their preferred specialty for training is among competitive specialties such as Plastic Surgery, Dermatology, Neurosurgery, Ophthalmology, Urology, Orthopaedics, Otolaryngology, and Radiation Oncology.\n\nThe American Osteopathic Association (AOA) sponsors a similar but separate Match for osteopathic students and graduates, the results of which are announced in February, before release of the NRMP results. Osteopathic physicians (DOs) may participate in either the NRMP or AOA matching plan and obtain positions in programs accredited by either the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine American Osteopathic Association (AOA). The AOA Match is being phased out as a result of the transition to a single accreditation system under the aegis of the ACGME.\n\nMembers of the U.S. military participate in their own selection process for programs located at military hospitals, clinics, and bases. The military selection usually occurs in mid-December to allow students who did not match to participate in other national matching plans \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11130010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11130010", "title": "Misattribution of arousal", "text": "Misattribution of arousal\n\nMisattribution of arousal is a term in psychology which describes the process whereby people make a mistake in assuming what is causing them to feel aroused. For example, when actually experiencing physiological responses related to fear, people mislabel those responses as romantic arousal. The reason physiological symptoms may be attributed to incorrect stimuli is because many stimuli have similar physiological symptoms such as increased blood pressure or shortness of breath.\n\nOne of the initial studies looking into this phenomenon conducted by Schachter and Singer (1962) was based on the idea that the experience of arousal could be ambiguous and therefore misattributed to an incorrect stimulus. Operating under this assumption, the researchers developed the two factor theory of emotion. Misattribution of arousal, which is an influence on emotion processing, can be found in multiple situations, such as romantic situations and physiological responses from exercise.\n\nAn example of the possible effects of misattribution of arousal is perceiving a potential partner as more attractive because of a heightened state of physiological stress. A study done by White et al. (1981) investigated this phenomenon and found that those in an unrelated aroused state will rate an attractive confederate more highly than a rater without arousal. The researchers also found that aroused raters would dislike an unattractive confederate more than those without arousal.\n\nDonald Dutton and Arthur Aron's (1974) study to test the causation of misattribution of arousal incorporated an attractive confederate female to wait at the end of a bridge that was either a suspension bridge (that would induce fear) or a sturdy bridge (that would not induce fear). After the males crossed the bridge, they were stopped by a female confederate and took a Thematic Apperception Test wherein they had to compose a short story based on an ambiguous image; the image chosen was purposefully not sexual at all. Afterward, the story was analyzed for sexual content. The female confederate, who was not aware of the true hypothesis of the experiment, then gave her phone number to the males if they had any more questions about the experiment and the researchers documented how many males called the confederate. As the men finished the survey, the woman explained she would be available to answer any questions regarding her project, giving her phone number and name to the male subjects. Dutton and Aron wondered if the participants were more likely to call the woman because they were physically attracted to her or not. However, Dutton and Aron had to take into consideration that some factors of the men, such as the possibility of some men already being involved in a relationship or how an individual male interpreted the woman's body gestures.\nTherefore, Dutton and Aron had the woman survey the men under two conditions: immediately after they crossed a -long bridge or after they had crossed and had enough time to rest. In the first condition, the men who were surveyed during their cross over the bridge would have had their arousal level increased as they were speaking to the woman. Conditions such as experiencing winds during their walk and the nervous feeling may have contributed to their fast-paced heartbeats and rapid breathing.\n\nIn the other condition, the woman had approached the men after they had crossed the bridge. They had enough time to rest and get their heartbeat and breathing back to normal.\n\nMore males contacted the female experimenter when they had just walked down the suspension bridge, which was thought to be due to their misattribution of their arousal (they believed that they were feeling sexual arousal at the sight of the female instead of feeling the leftover physiological arousal from the fear of walking across the suspension bridge). This was interpreted by the researchers to mean that the men found the woman more attractive when they had more anxiety about crossing the bridge. There were no significant differences on either bridge when the researchers used a male confederate to give the Thematic Apperception Test and his phone number for any further questions about the experiment.\n\nFear is not the only emotion that can be a result of misattribution of arousal. One of the earlier studies that focused on misattribution of arousal was done by Schachter and Singer in 1962. The researchers told the participants in their study that they were testing how their vision responded to a shot of vitamins called Suproxin. Suproxin was actually a shot of epinephrine or a placebo. Epinephrine activated the sympathetic nervous system and produced systems such as an elevated heart rate and blood pressure. The researchers then either told the participants the effects of the epinephrine, said nothing about any potential effects of the epinephrine, or told them they may feel some effects that had nothing to do with the epinephrine (for example, the researchers told the participants they could experience a headache from the shot). The participants were told that they had to wait 20 min for the Suproxin to get into their bloodstreams. While they were waiting, a confederate (a participant who is also covertly collaborating with/an associate of the researchers) who was either euphoric or angry waited with the participant to see if the emotion of the participant could be manipulated by the epinephrine and the emotion of the confederate. The confederate played basketball with pieces of balled up scrap paper while in the euphoric state or had to take a questionnaire and became very angry with the personal questions in the anger state.The participants then were observed to see if they appeared to be angry or euphoric and took a self-reported survey about their mood.\n\nThey found that if someone was physiologically aroused without being aware of it, they would attribute their arousal to a recent thought in their memory.The researchers also found that emotions (in this study, euphoria and anger) could be manipulated by providing a participant with a shot of epinephrine.\n\nMisattribution of arousal can also influence how much confidence one feels before completing a task. One study conducted by Savitsky, Medvec, Charlton, and Gilovich focused on how confidence can be affected by misattribution of arousal. Typically people feel more confident before they are supposed to do a task, but the closer they get to having to perform that task, the less confident they feel, which could be due to the arousal from the expectation of the performance. The researchers told participants that they would be exposed to a subliminal noise and were then asked if they could predict how well they would do on two tasks. After they made their predictions, the researchers either told them that the noise could make them nervous, the noise would have no effect on them, or they were told that they would not have to do the tasks until the next session a month away after they were exposed to the noise. The tasks were to unscramble anagrams or to recall as many nonsense syllables as they could after seeing them briefly. They could earn money for the tasks (more money was earned for each anagram unscrambled or each syllable correctly recalled). The participants then predicted how well they did on the tasks, and how well they believed everyone else did on the task. A second experiment replicated this first experiment.The researchers had participants attribute their arousal to noises that they heard, which resulted in those participants feeling more confident that they did well on the tasks than those that attributed their arousal to the performance anxiety from the task.\n\nWhite, Fishbein, and Rutsein generated further research on the misattribution of arousal with their 1981 study, “Passionate Love and the Misattribution of Arousal.” The researchers performed their study using two experiments. In the first experiment, 54 male participants were placed under varying degrees of physical exertion, in order to create a state of arousal. The participants were then asked to view a video of a female confederate either manipulated to be attractive or unattractive. The video was a self-disclosure statement where the female discussed hobbies and other typically dating related material. After completing the video, participants were given thirteen attraction trait criteria on which to rate the female. The experiment confirmed the researcher's hypothesis that individuals in a neutral aroused state were more likely to rate a target as attractive than an unaroused individual.\nWhite, Fishbein, and Rutsein hypothesized that the polarity of an individual's arousal could influence the impact of the misattribution of arousal. To test this hypothesis the researchers created three separate videos to prime the subjects with a positive, negative, or neutral arousal. Sixty six male participants were asked to watch one of the videos and then rate the female as in the first study. The study found that regardless of the stimuli's polarity, the participants in the aroused state found the attractive confederate more attractive and the unattractive confederate as less attractive than the unaroused participants.\n\nA study done by Loftis and Ross in 1974 looked at the effects of misattribution of arousal upon acquisition and extinction of a conditional emotional response. They conducted two experiments with 89 female undergraduates to show that misattribution procedures can alter physiological response to a conditioned source of a fear or arousal. The results suggested that self perception and attribution play a major role in emotional response.\n\nAdditionally, a study conducted by Allen, Kenrick, Linder and McCall in 1989 suggested an alternative explanation to the misattribution of arousal in terms of attraction-arousal (as there are other types of arousal that can be misattributed). The original model of misattribution of arousal essentially states that the person who is aroused will only be attracted to the target person, so long as they are unaware of the true cause of arousal. Allen et al. propose a different model called Response-Facilitation, in which they suggest that the subject that is aroused will be more attracted to the target person (compared to people who are unaroused), regardless of if they know the true source of the stimulation. To test this new model, they ran two studies in which they manipulated the type of arousal the participants experienced and the salience (awareness) of the arousal. In one study, they put the participants into three different groups: control (no arousal), arousal-awareness (where they were put in front of an attractive person, but knew what the actual cause of arousal (exercise) was), and arousal-unaware (where they were put in front of an attractive person but didn't realize the true cause of arousal). After conducting the study, the researchers found that regardless of whether the person was aware of the true cause of arousal, they were still more attracted to the target person than those in the control condition. In other words, whereas the original theory of misattribution of arousal said that people could only misattribute their arousal if they were unaware of the true cause, the Response-Facilitation model states that it is possible that people could be aware of the true cause of arousal and still find themselves attracted to someone, compared to people who are unaroused. This demonstrates another potential model that could explain the attraction-arousal component of the misattribution of arousal theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39618075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39618075", "title": "Molecular pathological epidemiology", "text": "Molecular pathological epidemiology\n\nMolecular pathological epidemiology (MPE, also molecular pathologic epidemiology) is a discipline combining epidemiology and pathology. It is defined as \"epidemiology of molecular pathology and heterogeneity of disease\". Pathology and epidemiology share the same goal of elucidating etiology of disease, and MPE aims to achieve this goal at molecular, individual and population levels. Typically, MPE utilizes tissue pathology resources and data within existing epidemiology studies. Molecular epidemiology broadly encompasses MPE and conventional-type molecular epidemiology with the use of traditional disease designation systems.\n\nData from The Cancer Genome Atlas projects indicate that disease evolution is an inherently heterogeneous process. Each patient has a unique disease process (“the unique disease principle”), considering the uniqueness of the exposome and its unique influence on molecular pathologic process. This concept has been adopted in clinical medicine along with precision medicine and personalized medicine.\n\nIn MPE, investigators dissect interrelationships between exposures (e.g., environmental, dietary, lifestyle and genetic factors); alterations in cellular or extracellular molecules (disease molecular signatures); and disease evolution and progression. Investigators can analyze genome, methylome, epigenome, metabolome, transcriptome, proteome, microbiome, immunity and interactome. A putative risk factor can be linked to specific molecular signatures.\n\nMPE research enables identification of a new biomarker for potential clinical utility, using large-scale population-based data (e.g., PIK3CA mutation in colorectal cancer to select patients for aspirin therapy). The MPE approach can be used following a genome-wide association study (GWAS), termed \"GWAS-MPE approach\". Detailed disease endpoint phenotyping can be conducted by means of molecular pathology or surrogate histopathology or immunohistochemistry analysis of diseased tissues and cells within GWAS.\n\nAs an alternative approach, potential risk variants identified by GWAS can be examined in combination with molecular pathology analysis on diseased tissues. This GWAS-MPE approach can give not only more precise effect estimates, even larger effects, for specific molecular subtypes of the disease, but also insights into pathogenesis by linking genetic variants to molecular pathologic signatures of disease. Since molecular diagnostics is becoming routine clinical practice, molecular pathology data can aid epidemiologic research.\n\nMPE started as analysis of risk factors (such as smoking) and molecular pathologic findings (such as \"KRAS\" oncogene mutation in lung cancer).\n\nStudies to examine the relationship between an exposure and molecular pathologic signature of disease (particularly, cancer) became increasingly common throughout the 1990s and early 2000s.\n\nThe use of molecular pathology in epidemiology posed lacked standardized methodologies and guidelines as well as interdisciplinary experts and training programs. MPE research required a new conceptual framework and methodologies (epidemiological method) because MPE examines heterogeneity in an outcome variable.\n\nThe term \"molecular pathological epidemiology\" was used by Shuji Ogino and Meir Stampfer in 2010. Specific principles of MPE developed following 2010. The MPE paradigm is in widespread use globally, and has been a subject in international conferences. The International Molecular Pathological Epidemiology (MPE) Meeting Series has been open to research community around the world, its second and third meetings were held in Boston, in December 2014 and May 2016, respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "50462736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50462736", "title": "Montefiore Residency Program in Social Medicine", "text": "Montefiore Residency Program in Social Medicine\n\nThe Montefiore Residency Program in Social Medicine is one of the oldest primary care training programs in the United States. It is located in Bronx, New York which contains some of the poorest urban districts in the United States. It is managed by the Montefiore Department of Family and Social Medicine and offers training in 3 primary care specialities: internal medicine, family medicine and pediatrics. It has trained over 700 physicians in primary care with a focus on medically underserved populations.\n\nThe program was founded in 1970 by Drs. Harold Wise and David Kindig. In 1973 family practice was added as a third track. Residents worked in partnerships and maintained their continuity practices at the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Health Center, which Dr. Wise had begun in 1968. The RSPM was their response to the difficulty of recruiting physicians to MLK who could work effectively with the community and other members of the health care team. At the time MLK was the flagship of the neighborhood health center movement of the Office of Economic Opportunity, the main federal agency coordinating Lyndon Johnson's War on Poverty.\n\nIn 1973 Dr. Jo Ivey Boufford, one of the residency program’s first pediatric graduates, became its director and began developing the social medicine curriculum in which all three disciplines shared. This included health systems skills, such as medical care organization and economics; community and organizational skills, such as medical anthropology, Spanish and community-based projects; research and evaluation skills, such as epidemiology, biostatistics, and health services research; and educational and teaching skills, including patient education and curriculum development.\n\nIn 1977 the family practice track moved its continuity practice from the Martin Luther King Health Center to North Central Bronx Hospital and in 1980 the Montefiore Family Health Center was opened and became the primary site for residency training and faculty practice in family medicine. Because of MLK’s fiscal problems, the pediatrics and internal medicine tracks moved to St. Barnabas Hospital in 1986. In 1990 several independent community health centers affiliated with MMC were organized into the Montefiore Ambulatory Care Network under Dr. Robert Massad. In 1991 pediatrics and internal medicine moved to the Ambulatory Care Network, now divided between the Comprehensive Health Care Center in the South Bronx and the Comprehensive Family Care Center in the East Bronx. In 1997, when the Comprehensive Health Care Center moved into a new facility, the social internal medicine and pediatrics tracks were again consolidated there. The Comprehensive Health Care Center, Comprehensive Family Care Center, and Family Health Center are all federally qualified health centers.\n\nIn 1992 the Department of Family Medicine at Montefiore, which administers the Residency Program in Social Medicine, became an academic department at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine with a Division of Research, a required third year clerkship for medical students, and its own inpatient ward at Montefiore. Dr. Massad became the first Chairman of Family Medicine at Einstein with affiliated residencies at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center. In 1993 Dr. Massad received national recognition awards from both the National Association of Community Health Centers and the Society of Teachers of Family Medicine. In 1995 the Residency Program in Social Medicine became the first organization to receive the National Primary Care Achievement Award in Education from the Pew Charitable Trust. In 1996 the Ambulatory Care Network merged with the Montefiore Medical Group and another graduate of the Social Medicine residency program, Dr. Kathryn Anastos, was recruited as its first medical director. Family practice residents began work at the Castle Hill and Valentine Lane family practices, where medical students had been rotating since 1993. In 1998 Dr. Massad was succeeded by another Social Medicine residency graduate, Dr. Peter Selwyn, as Chair of the Department of Family Medicine and Community Health. Dr. Selwyn enlarged the Research Division and initiated a Palliative Care Service, including inpatient hospice beds.\n\nIn 2000 the Valentine Lane Family Practice was transferred to the St. John’s Riverside Hospital System in Yonkers, and half of the family practice residency moved to the Williamsbridge Family Practice. In 2001 members of the department established the first Hispanic Center of Excellence in New York State at the medical school. In 2003 the department established the Bronx Center to Reduce and Eliminate Ethnic and Racial Health Disparities, the first National Institutes of Health Center of Excellence in a department of family medicine. After the Einstein Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine was renamed the Department of Epidemiology and Population Health in 2004, the residency program was housed under the Department of Family and Social Medicine in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "232700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232700", "title": "Mungo Park (explorer)", "text": "Mungo Park (explorer)\n\nMungo Park (11 September 1771 – 1806) was a Scottish explorer of West Africa. He was the first Westerner known to have travelled to the central portion of the Niger River. He wrote a popular and influential travel book about it titled \"Travels in the Interior Districts of Africa\".\n\nMungo Park was born in Selkirkshire, Scotland, at Foulshiels on the Yarrow Water, near Selkirk, on a tenant farm which his father rented from the Duke of Buccleuch. He was the seventh in a family of thirteen. Although tenant farmers, the Parks were relatively well-off. They were able to pay for Park to receive a good education, and Park's father died leaving property valued at\n£3,000 (). His parents had originally intended him for the Church of Scotland.\n\nHe was educated at home before attending Selkirk grammar school. At the age of fourteen, he was apprenticed to Thomas Anderson, a surgeon in Selkirk. During his apprenticeship, Park became friends with Anderson's son Alexander and was introduced to Anderson's daughter Allison, who would later become his wife.\n\nIn October 1788, Park enrolled at the University of Edinburgh, attending for four sessions studying medicine and botany. Notably, during his time at university, he spent a year in the natural history course taught by Professor John Walker. After completing his studies, he spent a summer in the Scottish Highlands, engaged in botanical fieldwork with his brother-in-law, James Dickson, a gardener and seed merchant in Covent Garden. In 1788 Dickson along with Sir James Edward Smith and six other fellows founded the Linnean Society of London.\n\nIn 1792 Park completed his medical studies at University of Edinburgh. Through a recommendation by Banks, he obtained the post of assistant surgeon on board the East India Company's ship \"Worcester\". In February 1793 the \"Worcester\" sailed to Benkulen in Sumatra. Before departing, Park wrote his friend Alexander Anderson in terms that reflect his Calvinist upbringing:\n\nMy hope is now approaching to a certainty. If I be deceived, may God alone put me right, for I would rather die in the delusion than wake to all the joys of earth. May the Holy Spirit dwell in your heart, my dear friend, and if I ever see my native land again, may I rather see the green sod on your grave than see you anything but a Christian.\n\nOn his return in 1794, Park gave a lecture to the Linnaean Society, describing eight new Sumatran fish. The paper was not published until three years later. He also presented Banks with various rare Sumatran plants.\n\nOn 26 September 1794 Mungo Park offered his services to the African Association, then looking for a successor to Major Daniel Houghton, who had been sent in 1790 to discover the course of the Niger River and had died in the Sahara. Supported by Sir Joseph Banks, Park was selected.\n\nOn 22 May 1795, Park left Portsmouth, England, on the brig \"Endeavour\", a vessel travelling to Gambia to trade for beeswax and ivory.\n\nOn 21 June 1795, he reached the Gambia River and ascended it to a British trading station named Pisania. On 2 December, accompanied by two local guides, he started for the unknown interior. He chose the route crossing the upper Senegal basin and through the semi-desert region of Kaarta. The journey was full of difficulties, and at Ludamar he was imprisoned by a Moorish chief for four months. On 1 July 1796, he escaped, alone and with nothing but his horse and a pocket compass, and on the 21st reached the long-sought Niger River at Ségou, being the first European to do so. He followed the river downstream to Silla, where he was obliged to turn back, lacking the resources to go further.\nOn his return journey, begun on 29 July, he took a route more to the south than that originally followed, keeping close to the Niger River as far as Bamako, thus tracing its course for some . At Kamalia he fell ill, and owed his life to the kindness of a man in whose house he lived for seven months. Eventually he reached Pisania again on 10 June 1797, returning to Scotland by way of Antigua on 22 December. He had been thought dead, and his return home with news of his exploration of the Niger River evoked great public enthusiasm. An account of his journey was drawn up for the African Association by Bryan Edwards, and his own detailed narrative appeared in 1799 (\"Travels in the Interior of Africa\").\n\nPark was convinced that: \nwhatever difference there is between the negro and European, in the conformation of the nose, and the colour of the skin, there is none in the genuine sympathies and characteristic feelings of our common nature.\n\nPark encountered a group of slaves when traveling through Mandinka country Mali: \nThey were all very inquisitive, but they viewed me at first with looks of horror, and repeatedly asked if my countrymen were cannibals. They were very desirous to know what became of the slaves after they had crossed the salt water. I told them that they were employed in cultivating the land; but they would not believe me; and one of them putting his hand upon the ground, said with great simplicity, \"have you really got such ground as this, to set your feet upon?\" A deeply-rooted idea that the whites purchase Negroes for the purpose of devouring them, or of selling them to others that they may be devoured hereafter, naturally makes the slaves contemplate a journey towards the Coast with great terror, insomuch that the Slatees are forced to keep them constantly in irons, and watch them very closely, to prevent their escape.\n\nHis book \"Travels in the Interior Districts of Africa\" became a best-seller because it detailed what he observed, what he survived, and the people he encountered. His dispassionate — if not scientific or objective — descriptions set a standard for future travel writers to follow and gave Europeans a glimpse of Africa's humanity and complexity. Park introduced them to a vast continent unexplored by Europeans, and proposed by example that Europeans could exploit it. After his death, European public and political interest in Africa began to increase. Perhaps the most lasting effect of Park's travels, though, was their influence on European imperialism and colonialism.\n\nSettling at Foulshiels, in August 1799 Park married Allison, daughter of his old master, Thomas Anderson. A project to go to New South Wales in some official capacity came to nothing, and in October 1801 Park moved to Peebles, where he practised as a physician.\n\nIn the autumn of 1803 Mungo Park was invited by the government to lead another expedition to the Niger. Park, who chafed at the hardness and monotony of life at Peebles, accepted the offer, but the expedition was delayed. Part of the waiting time was occupied perfecting his Arabic; his teacher, Sidi Ambak Bubi, was a native of Mogador whose behavior both amused and alarmed the people of Peebles.\n\nIn May 1804 Park went back to Foulshiels, where he made the acquaintance of Sir Walter Scott, then living nearby at Ashiesteil and with whom he soon became friendly. In September, Park was summoned to London to leave on the new expedition; he left Scott with the hopeful proverb on his lips, \"Freits (omens) follow those that look to them.\"\n\nPark had at that time adopted the theory that the Niger and the Congo were one, and in a memorandum drawn up before he left Britain he wrote: \"My hopes of returning by the Congo are not altogether fanciful.\"\n\nOn 31 January 1805 he sailed from Portsmouth for Gambia, having been given a captain's commission as head of the government expedition. Alexander Anderson, his brother-in-law and second-in-command, had received a lieutenancy. George Scott, a fellow Borderer, was draughtsman, and the party included four or five artificers. At Gorée (then in British occupation) Park was joined by Lieutenant Martyn, R.A., thirty-five privates and two seamen.\n\nThe expedition did not reach the Niger until mid-August, when only eleven Europeans were left alive; the rest had succumbed to fever or dysentery. From Bamako the journey to Ségou was made by canoe. Having received permission from the local ruler, Mansong Diarra, to proceed, at Sansanding, a little below Ségou, Park made ready for his journey down the still unknown part of the river. Helped by one soldier, the only one capable of work, Park converted two canoes into one tolerably good boat, long and broad. This he christened H.M. schooner \"Joliba\" (the native name for the Niger River), and in it, with the surviving members of his party, he set sail downstream on 19 November.\n\nAnderson had died at Sansanding on 28 October, and in him Park had lost the only member of the party – except Scott, already dead – \"who had been of real use.\" Those who embarked in the \"Joliba\" were Park, Martyn, three European soldiers (one extremely mad), a guide and three slaves. Before his departure, Park gave to Isaaco, a Mandingo guide who had been with him thus far, letters to take back to Gambia for transmission to Britain.\n\nThe spirit with which Park began the final stage of his enterprise is well illustrated by his letter to the head of the Colonial Office: \"I shall\", he wrote, \"set sail for the east with the fixed resolution to discover the termination of the Niger or perish in the attempt. Though all the Europeans who are with me should die, and though I were myself half dead, I would still persevere, and if I could not succeed in the object of my journey, I would at least die on the Niger.\"\n\nTo his wife, Park wrote of his intention not to stop nor land anywhere until he reached the coast, where he expected to arrive about the end of January 1806.\n\nThese were the last communications received from Park, and nothing more was heard of the party until reports of disaster reached Gambia.\n\nAt length, the British government engaged Isaaco to go to the Niger to ascertain Park's fate. At Sansanding, Isaaco found Amadi Fatouma (Isaaco calls him Amaudy), the guide who had gone downstream with Park, and the substantial accuracy of the story he told was later confirmed by the investigations of Hugh Clapperton and Richard Lander.\n\nAmadi Fatouma stated that Park's canoe had descended the river as far as Sibby without incident. After Sibby three canoes chased them and Park's party repulsed them with firearms. A similar incident occurred at Cabbara and again at Toomboucouton. At Gouroumo seven canoes pursued them. One of the party died of sickness leaving \"four white men, myself [Amadi], and three slaves\". Each person (including the slaves) had \"15 musquets apiece, well loaded and always ready for action\". After passing the residence of the king of Goloijigi 60 canoes came after them which they \"repulsed after killing many natives\". Further along they encountered an army of the Poule nation and kept to the opposite bank to avoid an action. After a close encounter with a hippopotamus they continued past Caffo (3 canoes) to an island where Isaaco was taken prisoner. Park rescued him, and 20 canoes chased them. This time they merely asked Amadi for trinkets which Park supplied. At Gourmon they traded for provisions and were warned of an ambush up ahead. They passed the army \"being all Moors\" and entered Haoussa, finally arriving at Yauri (which Amadi calls Yaour), where he (Fatouma) landed. In this long journey of some Park, who had plenty of provisions, stuck to his resolution of keeping aloof from the natives. Below Djenné, came Timbuktu, and at various other places the natives came out in canoes and attacked his boat. These attacks were all repulsed, Park and his party having plenty of firearms and ammunition and the natives having none. The boat also escaped the many perils attendant on navigating an unknown stream strewn with many rapids; Park had built \"Joliba\" so that she drew only of water.\n\nAt Haoussa Amadi traded with the local chief. Amadi reports that Park gave him five silver rings, some powder and flints to give as a gift to the chief of the village. The following day Amadi visited the king where Amadi was accused of not having given the chief a present. Amadi was \"put in irons\". The king then sent an army to Boussa where there is a natural narrowing of the river commanded by high rock. But at the Bussa rapids, not far below Yauri, the boat became stuck on a rock and remained fast. On the bank were gathered hostile natives, who attacked the party with bow and arrow and throwing spears. Their position being untenable, Park, Martyn and the two remaining soldiers sprang into the river and were drowned. The sole survivor was one of the slaves. After three months in irons, Amadi was released and talked with the surviving slave, from whom was obtained the story of the final scene.\n\nAmadi paid a Peulh man to obtain Park's sword belt. Amadi then returned first to Sansanding and then to Segou. After, Amadi went to Dacha and told the king what had passed. The king sent an army past \"Tombouctou\" (Timbuktu) to Sacha but decided that Haoussa was too far for a punitive expedition. Instead they went to Massina, a small \"Paul\" Peulh country where they took all the cattle and returned home. Amadi appears to have been part of this expedition: \"We came altogether back to Sego\" (Segou). Amadi then returned to Sansanding via Sego. Eventually the Peulh man obtained the sword belt and after a voyage of eight months met up with Amadi and gave him the belt. Isaaco met Amadi in Sego and having obtained the sword belt returned to Senegal.\n\nIsaaco, and later Richard Lander, obtained some of Park's effects, but his journal was never recovered. In 1827 his second son, Thomas, landed on the Guinea coast, intending to make his way to Bussa, where he thought his father might be detained a prisoner; but after penetrating a little distance inland he died of fever. Park's widow, Allison, received a previously agreed upon £4,000 settlement from the African Association as a result of the death of Mungo Park. She died in 1840. Mungo Park's remains are believed to have been buried along the banks of the River Niger in Jebba, Nigeria.\n\nThe Royal Scottish Geographical Society award the Mungo Park Medal annually in Park's honour.\n\nMungo Park appears as one of the two protagonists in \"Water Music\" by T. C. Boyle.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9624478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9624478", "title": "Museum Kimchikan", "text": "Museum Kimchikan\n\nMuseum Kimchikan, formerly Kimchi Museum, is a museum dedicated to kimchi; one of the staples of Korean cuisine. Exhibits focus on the food's history, its many historical and regional varieties, and its importance to Korean culture and cuisine. The museum collects data and statistics on kimchi and regularly offers activities for visitors, such as demonstrations of the kimchi-making process, kimchi tastings, and cooking classes. The Kimchi Field Museum was Korea's first food museum. In 2015, it was selected by CNN as one of the world's best food museums.\n\nThe Kimchi Field Museum was established in 1986, and is located in the Jongno District of Seoul, South Korea.\n\nThe museum was reopened at Insa-dong, Jongno District, Seoul, Korea on April 21, 2015.\n\nThe Kimchi Field Museum was originally established in 1986 in Pil-dong, Jung-gu. From 1987, the museum was managed by Pulmuone Inc., one of the largest food production companies in Korea. In 1988, the museum was moved to the COEX (Convention and Exhibition Center) in connection with the Summer Olympic Games held in Seoul, South Korea.\n\nIn 2000, the museum was renovated so as to expand and improve its facilities for visitors in anticipation of the third Asia–Europe Meeting in Seoul, designed to deepen political, economic, and cultural relationships between its 41 member countries.\n\nThe first part of the museum has three sections covering the long history of kimchi, including a detailed timeline for visitors. \n\nThe second branch of the Kimchi Field Museum consists of displays on the process of kimchi making, as well as short documentaries which play at regular intervals. Here, visitors can view models of 80 different kinds of kimchi and compare recipes (with a picture and description for each). In addition, there is information about what kinds of spices people have used before they adopted red peppers from Japan and Korea. Another section illustrates the regional varieties of kimchi by geographic district.\n\nThe museum provides detailed explanations of the process of making kimchi, with a diorama for each step. There is also one section in which people can view the typical environment in which kimchi would be made, including the historic pottery forms used for the fermentation and storage processes.\n\nThere are two photo zones where people can take pictures of kimchi, a display on the nutritional benefits of kimchi, and compare it with other kinds of fermented vegetables around the world. Guests are also welcome to visit an area where they can observe the \"Lactobacillus\" bacteria in kimchi through a microscope. The museum also displays a large world map with countries to which Kimchi is exported. A tasting room is open for visitors to test two different kinds of kimchi each month.\n\nThe final section of the museum consists of a resource room, where people can read books about kimchi and other traditional foods of Korea. Visitors can access kimchi-related articles and movies in the resource room.\n\n"}
{"id": "5274062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5274062", "title": "National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention", "text": "National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention\n\nThe National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP), formerly the National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHSTP) is a part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and is responsible for public health surveillance, prevention research, and programs to prevent and control human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), viral hepatitis, and tuberculosis (TB). Center staff work in collaboration with governmental and nongovernmental partners at community, State, national, and international levels, applying well-integrated multidisciplinary programs of research, surveillance, technical assistance, and evaluation.\n\nIn November 2005, Dr. Kevin Fenton, M.D., Ph.D., FFPH was named director of this center.\n\nIn March 2007, the center was renamed to the National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHHSTP) from the National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention (NCHSTP) to reflect the addition of CDC's Viral Hepatitis program.\n\n"}
{"id": "1073739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1073739", "title": "Neurodiversity", "text": "Neurodiversity\n\nNeurodiversity is an approach to learning and mental health that argues various neurological conditions are the result of normal variations in the human genome. \"Neurodiversity\" is a portmanteau of \"neurological\" and \"diversity\" that originated in the late 1990s as a challenge to prevailing views of certain neurological conditions as being inherently pathological, instead asserting that neurological differences should be recognized and respected as a social category on par with gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or disability status.\n\nThe neurodiversity movement describes itself as an international civil rights movement, of which the autism rights movement is its most influential submovement. Citing the classic legal maxim, \"Nothing About Us Without Us\", the movement promotes self-advocacy of its members. Neurodiversity advocates promote support systems (such as inclusion-focused services, accommodations, communication and assistive technologies, occupational training, and independent living support) that allow those who are \"non-neurotypical\" to live their lives as they are, rather than being coerced or forced to adopt what neurodiversity proponents see as uncritically accepted ideas of normality, or to conform to a clinical ideal. Neurodiversity frames autism, dyslexia, and other neurological conditions as natural human variations rather than pathologies or disorders, and rejects the idea that neurological differences need to be (or can be) cured, instead believing them to be authentic forms of human diversity, self-expression, and being.\n\nAccording to the 2011 National Symposium on Neurodiversity held at Syracuse University, neurodiversity is:\n\nThe autism rights movement (ARM) is a social movement within the neurodiversity movement that encourages autistic people, their caregivers and society to adopt a position of neurodiversity, accepting autism as a variation in functioning rather than a mental disorder to be cured. The ARM advocates a variety of goals including a greater acceptance of autistic behaviors; therapies that teach autistic individuals coping skills rather than therapies focused on imitating behaviors of neurotypical peers; the creation of social networks and events that allow autistic people to socialize on their own terms; and the recognition of the Autistic community as a minority group.\n\nAutism rights or neurodiversity advocates believe that the autism spectrum is genetic and should be accepted as a natural expression of the human genome. This perspective is distinct from two other views: the mainstream perspective that autism is caused by a genetic defect and should be addressed by targeting the genes that cause autism; and the perspective that autism is caused by environmental factors and could be cured by addressing environmental causes.\n\nMany autistic supporters of autism rights describe themselves through words that emphasize the condition as an intrinsic part of their identity, such as \"autistic\", or \"aspie\" for those with Asperger syndrome. This contrasts to a general recommendation by US disability advocacy organizations for the use of person-first language when referring to a person with a medical or mental condition or disability, which emphasizes the \"person\" with the condition, who has, rather than is defined by it. There are accepted general arguments for the use of 'disabled person' similarly based on the social model of disability that are recognised in the UK and elsewhere.\n\nMembers of the various autism rights organizations view autism as a way of life rather than as a disease and thus advocate acceptance over a search for a cure. Some advocates believe that common therapies for the behavioral and language differences associated with autism, like applied behavior analysis, are not only misguided but also unethical.\n\nThe \"acceptance perspective\" endorsed by the movement is a view that autism is not a disorder, but a normal occurrence—an alternate variation in brain wiring or a less common expression of the human genome. Advocates of this perspective believe that autism is a unique way of being that should be validated, supported and appreciated rather than shunned, discriminated against or eliminated. They believe quirks and uniqueness of autistic individuals should be tolerated as the differences of any minority group should be tolerated and that efforts to eliminate autism should not be compared, for example, to curing cancer but instead to the antiquated notion of curing left-handedness. The ARM is a part of the larger disability rights movement, and as such adheres to the social model of disability. Within this model, struggles faced by autistic people are viewed as discrimination rather than deficiencies.\n\nAccording to Andrew Fenton and Tim Krahn, proponents of neurodiversity strive to reconceptualize autism and related conditions in society by the following measures: acknowledging that neurodiversity does not require a cure; changing the language from the current \"condition, disease, disorder, or illness\"-based nomenclature and \"broaden[ing] the understanding of healthy or independent living\"; acknowledging new types of autonomy; and giving non-neurotypical individuals more control over their treatment, including the type, timing, and whether there should be treatment at all.\n\nA 2009 study by Edward Griffin and David Pollak separated 27 students (with autism, dyslexia, developmental coordination disorder, ADHD, and stroke), into two categories of self-view: \"a 'difference' view—where neurodiversity was seen as a difference incorporating a set of strengths and weaknesses, or a 'medical/deficit' view—where neurodiversity was seen as a disadvantageous medical condition\". They found that although all of the students reported uniformly difficult schooling careers involving exclusion, abuse, and bullying, those who viewed themselves from a difference view (41% of the study cohort) \"indicated higher academic self-esteem and confidence in their abilities and many (73%) expressed considerable career ambitions with positive and clear goals\". Many of these students reported gaining this view of themselves through contact with neurodiversity advocates in online support groups.\n\nA 2013 online survey said this: \"Such a deficit-as-difference conception of autism suggests the importance of harnessing autistic traits in developmentally beneficial ways, transcending a false dichotomy between celebrating differences and ameliorating deficit\". In 2013, German computer software giant SAP, seeking innovation that \"comes from the edges\", launched a recruitment drive for software testers specifically seeking autistic people. Freddie Mac, the U.S. home financing firm, aimed its hiring campaign's second round of paid internships at autistic students.\n\nThe neurodiversity paradigm was initially embraced by individuals on the autism spectrum, but subsequent groups have applied the concept to other developmental conditions such as ADHD, developmental speech disorders, dyslexia, dyspraxia, dyscalculia, dysnomia and intellectual disability; mental health conditions such as bipolarity, schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, sociopathy, obsessive–compulsive disorder, and Tourette syndrome; as well as the medical condition Parkinson's disease. The term neurodiversity represents a move away from the \"mother-blaming\" refrigerator mother theories of the 20th century.\n\nThe term is attributed to Judy Singer, an Australian social scientist on the autism spectrum, and it first appeared in print in an article by journalist Harvey Blume (which did not credit Singer) in \"The Atlantic\" on September 30, 1998:\nIn a \"New York Times\" piece on June 30, 1997, Blume did not use the term \"neurodiversity\", but he did describe the foundation of the idea in the phrase \"neurological pluralism\":\nBlume was an early advocate who predicted the role the Internet would play in fostering the international neurodiversity movement, writing:\nSome authors also credit the earlier work of autistic advocate Jim Sinclair, who was a principal early organizer of the international online autism community. Sinclair's 1993 speech, \"Don't Mourn For Us\", mentioned that some parents considered their child's autism diagnosis as \"the most traumatic thing that ever happened to them\". Sinclair (who did not speak until the age of 12) addressed the communal grief parents felt by asking them to try to take the perspectives of autistic people themselves:\nThe term \"neurodiversity\" has since been applied to other conditions and has taken on a more general meaning; for example, the Developmental Adult Neurodiversity Association (DANDA) in the UK encompasses developmental coordination disorder, ADHD, Asperger's syndrome and related conditions.\n\nThe concept of neurodiversity is controversial. Those supporting the medical model of disability identify the mental differences associated with these conditions as disorders, deficits, and dysfunctions, intrinsic differences in functioning which cause impairments in many areas of life. From this point of view, the mental states that are encompassed by neurodiversity are medical conditions that can and should be treated.\n\nAuthor David Pollak sees neurodiversity as an inclusive term for the equality of all possible mental states. Still others reject the word because they think it sounds too medical.\n\nThe concept of neurodiversity as applied to autism is criticized for being skewed towards the \"high-functioning\" individuals of the autistic spectrum or those with milder forms of the condition. Those with \"low-functioning\" autism are often significantly impaired in their everyday functioning, and may not be able to function effectively with even the extensive use of advanced assistive technologies. Because many of these low-functioning individuals are unable to communicate effectively to express their opinions and wishes, controversy surrounds the issue of who represents them and what represents their interests. Sue Rubin, an autistic woman and author who was the subject of the documentary \"Autism is a World\", favors a cure for the condition and asserts that while those with high-functioning autism tend to support the neurodiversity anti-cure position, those who have low-functioning autism generally hold the opposite opinion. Jaarsma and Welin wrote in 2011 that the \"broad version of the neurodiversity claim, covering low-functioning as well as high-functioning autism, is problematic. Only a narrow conception of neurodiversity, referring exclusively to high-functioning autists, is reasonable.\" They say that \"higher functioning\" individuals with autism may \"not [be] benefited with such a psychiatric defect-based diagnosis ... some of them are being harmed by it, because of the disrespect the diagnosis displays for their natural way of being\", but \"think that it is still reasonable to include other categories of autism in the psychiatric diagnostics. The narrow conception of the neurodiversity claim should be accepted but the broader claim should not.\"\n\nCriticism has been levied against the \"acceptance\" position of neurodiversity advocates, with it being noted that even though the biomedical therapies that target the clinical features of, for example, autism and the conditions that may co-occur with it, do not amount to a complete cure, such treatments can still potentially significantly improve the everyday functioning and quality of life of those with these conditions. While such treatments require substantial investment and development and would not be available for application in the immediate future, they may provide greater benefit in the future and in the long-term. Many of those who view autism as a disabling developmental disease consider that the acceptance perspective of neurodiversity insults the suffering of its patients and their families. Biology professor Jerry Coyne says that in its extreme, neurodiversity wishes to deny medical treatment for any person with a mental condition, particularly autism, even if the person wants a medical treatment.\n\nJonathan Mitchell, an autistic author and blogger who is a vocal opponent of the neurodiversity movement and an advocate for research for a cure for autism, criticizes the concept of neurodiversity for providing \"simplistic solutions to hard problems\" and trivializing the disabling aspects of autism. He considers his condition to have negatively affected his life, describing autism as having \"prevented me from making a living or ever having a girlfriend. It's given me bad fine motor coordination problems where I can hardly write. I have an impaired ability to relate to people. I can't concentrate or get things done.\" He describes neurodiversity as a \"tempting escape valve\" for many of the people who are on the autism spectrum; and commenting on the supposition of a general acceptance of neurodiversity by those on the spectrum, he says that \"most persons with an autism-spectrum disorder have never expressed their opinions on someone's blog and never will\". He states that neurodiversity has no solution for low-functioning autistics. He also criticizes Temple Grandin for making generalizations about the condition and the experiences of those with it, saying that her generalizations trivialize his suffering. Due to these positions, Mitchell is one of the most controversial voices in the autistic blogosphere, and has been highly criticized by many members of the neurodiversity movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "223988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223988", "title": "Orchidometer", "text": "Orchidometer\n\nAn orchidometer (or orchiometer) is a medical instrument used to measure the volume of the testicles.\n\nThe orchidometer was introduced in 1966 by Swiss pediatric endocrinologist Prof. Andrea Prader of the University of Zurich. It consists of a string of twelve numbered wooden or plastic beads of increasing size from about 1 to 25 millilitres. Doctors sometimes informally refer to them as \"Prader's balls\", \"the medical worry beads\", or the \"endocrine rosary.\"\n\nThe beads are compared with the testicles of the patient, and the volume is read off the bead which matches most closely in size. Prepubertal sizes are 1–3 ml, pubertal sizes are considered 4 ml and up and adult sizes are 12–25 ml.\n\nThe orchidometer can be used to accurately determine size of testes. Discrepancy of testicular size with other parameters of maturation can be an important clue to various diseases. Small testes can indicate either primary or secondary hypogonadism. Testicular size can help distinguish between different types of precocious puberty. Since testicular growth is typically the first physical sign of true puberty, one of the most common uses is as confirmation that puberty is beginning in a boy with delay. Large testes (macroorchidism) can be a clue to one of the most common causes of inherited generalised learning disability, fragile X syndrome.\n\nProfessor Stephen Shalet, a leading endocrinologist who works for the Christie Hospital in Manchester, is reported to have told \"The Observer\", \"Every endocrinologist should have an orchidometer. It's his stethoscope.\"\n\nOrchidometers are also commonly used to measure testicular volume in rams.\n\nNumerous clinical scales and measurement systems exist to define genitals as normal male or female, or \"abnormal\", including the prader scale, quigley scale and the satirical Phall-O-Meter.\n\n"}
{"id": "49631028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49631028", "title": "Patrick Newbigging", "text": "Patrick Newbigging\n\nPatrick Small Keir Newbigging FRSE FRSSA FRCSEd (1813–1864) was a Scottish surgeon and general practitioner. He was President of the Royal Medical Society and of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts. Together with his father, Sir William Newbigging he formed one of the few father-son pairs of former Presidents of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. His observations on the origin of the heart sounds and of the apex beat of the heart made a significant contribution to the debate.\n\nHe was born at 18 St Andrew Square in Edinburgh's New Town the son of the Edinburgh surgeon Sir William Newbigging and his wife Lilias Steuart.\n\nHe studied Medicine at Edinburgh University. While still a student he joined the Royal Medical Society and gave a dissertation to the Society in 1833 on the origin of heart sounds and pulsations. In this he suggested that the apex beat was produced by ventricular systole and not diastole as had been suggested by William Stokes and Dominic Corrigan and was the prevalent view at the time. He received his doctorate (MD), in 1834, writing his thesis on the same topic, under the title \"On the causes of the impulse and sounds of the heart.\" He became a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh in the same year and was elected President of the Royal Medical Society in 1835.\n\nBefore settling into practice in Edinburgh he made a tour of medical centres in Europe, promoting his ideas on auscultation of the heart. He then joined his father in general practice in Edinburgh and was elected a medical officer to the New Town Dispensary. He was medical officer to John Watson's Institution, to Cauvin's Hospital and was one of the original physicians to the Sick Children's Hospital in Edinburgh.\nIn 1847 he translated the \"Practical Treatise on Auscultation\" written by Jean Baptiste Barth and Henri-Louis Roger.\n\nIn 1848 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposer was William Pulteney Alison.\nIn 1850 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Scottish Society of the Arts and served as their President from 1861 to 1862.\nHis father, Sir William Newbigging had been President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh from 1814 to 1816. Patrick Newbigging followed in his father's footsteps serving as President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh from 1861 to 1863.\n\nIn his final years he lived at 29 Heriot Row in the New Town in Edinburgh, facing Queen Street Gardens.\n\nHe died on 10 January 1864 and is buried with his wife in Dean Cemetery. The grave in section R plot 55 lies against the wall on the south-west spur from the cemetery.\n\nNewbigging was married to Mary Anne Cockburn (1823–1909). They had twin daughters, Eleanor Letitia Newbigging (later Thompson) (1848–1875) and Alice Horsford Newbigging (1848–1911). They had one son: Alexander Cecil Newbigging (1853–1944).\n\nHis older brother John Steuart Newbigging became a Writer to the Signet. He was sheriff-clerk of Roxburghshire from 1841 to 1849\nand died in office. Two other brothers studied medicine. Robert Newbigging, a President of the Royal Medical Society, died in office during the 1832-3 session. George Stewart Newbigging, graduated MD from the University of Edinburgh in 1837 became FRCSEd the same year.\n\nM H Kaufman \"Sir William Newbigging (1772–1852) and Patrick Newbigging (1813–1864) — Father and Son Presidents of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh\" J Med Biog (2004) Volume: 12 issue: 4, page(s): 189-195. \n"}
{"id": "142549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142549", "title": "Peritonitis", "text": "Peritonitis\n\nPeritonitis is inflammation of the peritoneum, the lining of the inner wall of the abdomen and cover of the abdominal organs. Symptoms may include severe pain, swelling of the abdomen, fever, or weight loss. One part or the entire abdomen may be tender. Complications may include shock and acute respiratory distress syndrome.\nCauses include perforation of the intestinal tract, pancreatitis, pelvic inflammatory disease, stomach ulcer, cirrhosis, or a ruptured appendix. Risk factors include ascites and peritoneal dialysis. Diagnosis is generally based on examination, blood tests, and medical imaging.\nTreatment often includes antibiotics, intravenous fluids, pain medication, and surgery. Other measures may include a nasogastric tube or blood transfusion. Without treatment death may occur within a few days. Approximately 7.5% of people have appendicitis at some point in time. About 20% of people with cirrhosis who are hospitalized have peritonitis.\n\nThe main manifestations of peritonitis are acute abdominal pain, abdominal tenderness and abdominal guarding, which are exacerbated by moving the peritoneum, e.g., coughing (forced cough may be used as a test), flexing one's hips, or eliciting the Blumberg sign (a.k.a. rebound tenderness, meaning that pressing a hand on the abdomen elicits less pain than releasing the hand abruptly, which will aggravate the pain, as the peritoneum snaps back into place). Rigidity (involuntary contraction of the abdominal muscles) is the most specific exam finding for diagnosing peritonitis (+ likelihood ratio: 3.9). The presence of these signs in a patient is sometimes referred to as peritonism. The localization of these manifestations depends on whether peritonitis is localized (e.g., appendicitis or diverticulitis before perforation), or generalized to the whole abdomen. In either case, pain typically starts as a generalized abdominal pain (with involvement of poorly localizing innervation of the visceral peritoneal layer), and may become localized later (with the involvement of the somatically innervated parietal peritoneal layer). Peritonitis is an example of an acute abdomen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA diagnosis of peritonitis is based primarily on the clinical manifestations described above. Rigidity (involuntary contraction of the abdominal muscles) is the most specific exam finding for diagnosing peritonitis (+ likelihood ratio: 3.9). If peritonitis is strongly suspected, then surgery is performed without further delay for other investigations. Leukocytosis, hypokalemia, hypernatremia, and acidosis may be present, but they are not specific findings. Abdominal X-rays may reveal dilated, edematous intestines, although such X-rays are mainly useful to look for pneumoperitoneum, an indicator of gastrointestinal perforation. The role of whole-abdomen ultrasound examination is under study and is likely to expand in the future. Computed tomography (CT or CAT scanning) may be useful in differentiating causes of abdominal pain. If reasonable doubt still persists, an exploratory peritoneal lavage or laparoscopy may be performed. In patients with ascites, a diagnosis of peritonitis is made via paracentesis (abdominal tap): More than 250 polymorphonuclear cells per μL is considered diagnostic. In addition, Gram stain is almost always negative, whereas culture of the peritoneal fluid can determine the microorganism responsible and determine their sensitivity to antimicrobial agents.\n\nIn normal conditions, the peritoneum appears greyish and glistening; it becomes dull 2–4 hours after the onset of peritonitis, initially with scarce serous or slightly turbid fluid. Later on, the exudate becomes creamy and evidently suppurative; in dehydrated patients, it also becomes very inspissated. The quantity of accumulated exudate varies widely. It may be spread to the whole peritoneum, or be walled off by the omentum and viscera. Inflammation features infiltration by neutrophils with fibrino-purulent exudation.\n\nDepending on the severity of the patient's state, the management of peritonitis may include:\n\n\nIf properly treated, typical cases of surgically correctable peritonitis (e.g., perforated peptic ulcer, appendicitis, and diverticulitis) have a mortality rate of about <10% in otherwise healthy patients. The mortality rate rises to about 40% in the elderly, or in those with significant underlying illness, as well as cases that present late (after 48 hours).\n\nWithout being treated, generalised peritonitis almost always causes death. The stage magician Harry Houdini died this way, having contracted streptococcus peritonitis after his appendix ruptured and was removed too late to prevent spread of the infection.\n\nThe term \"peritonitis\" comes from Greek περιτόναιον \"peritonaion\" \"peritoneum, abdominal membrane\" and -itis \"inflammation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29146741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29146741", "title": "Population Impact Measures", "text": "Population Impact Measures\n\nPopulation Impact Measures (PIMs) are biostatistical measures of risk and benefit used in epidemiological and public health research. They are used to describe the impact of health risks and benefits in a population, to inform health policy.\n\nFrequently used measures of risk and benefit identified by Jerkel, Katz and Elmore, describe measures of risk difference (attributable risk), rate difference (often expressed as the odds ratio or relative risk), Population Attributable Risk (PAR), and the relative risk reduction, which can be recalculated into a measure of \"absolute benefit\", called the Number needed to treat. Population Impact Measures are an extension of these statistics, as they are measures of absolute risk at the population level, which are calculations of number of people in the population who are at risk to be harmed, or who will benefit from Public Health interventions. \n\nThey are measures of absolute risk and benefit, producing numbers of people who will benefit from an intervention or be at risk from a risk factor within a particular local or national population. They provide local context to previous measures, allowing policy-makers to identify and prioritise the potential benefits of interventions on their own population. They are simple to compute, and contain the elements to which policy-makers would have to pay attention in the commissioning or improvement of services. They may have special relevance for local policy-making. They depend on the ability to obtain and use local data, and by being explicit about the data required may have the added benefit of encouraging the collection of such data.\n\nTo describe the impact of preventive and treatment interventions, the Number of Events Prevented in a Population (NEPP) is defined as \"the number of events prevented by the intervention in your population over a defined time period\". NEPP extends the well-known measure Number needed to treat (NNT) beyond the individual patient to the population. To describe the impact of a risk factor on causing ill health and disease the Population Impact Number of Eliminating a Risk factor (PIN-ER-t) is defined as \"the potential number of disease events prevented in a population over the next t years by eliminating a risk factor\". The PIN-ER-t extends the well-known Population Attributable Risk (PAR) to a particular population and relates it to disease incidence, converting the PAR from a measure of relative to absolute risk.\n\nThe components for the calculations are as follows: Population denominator (size of the population); Proportion of the population with the disease; Proportion of the population exposed to the risk factor or the incremental proportion of the diseased population eligible for the proposed intervention (the latter requires the actual or estimated proportion who are currently receiving the interventions ‘subtracted’ from best practice goal from guidelines or targets, adjusted for likely compliance with the intervention); Baseline risk – the probability of the outcome of interest in this or similar populations; and Relative Risk of outcome given exposure to a risk factor or Relative Risk Reduction associated with the intervention.\n\nThe formula is: NEPP=N*Pd*Pe*ru*RRR where: N = population size, Pd = prevalence of the disease, Pe = proportion eligible for treatment, ru = risk of the event of interest in the untreated group or baseline risk over appropriate time period (can be multiplied by life expectancy to produce life-years), RRR = relative risk reduction associated with treatment.\n\nIn order to reflect the incremental effect of changing from current to ‘best’ practice, and to adjust for levels of compliance, the proportion eligible for treatment, Pe, is (Pb-Pt)*Pc, where Pt is the proportion currently treated, Pb is the proportion that would be treated if best practice was adopted, and Pc is the proportion of the population who are compliant with the intervention.\n\nYou can calculate the NEPP and its confidence intervals at this web site from the Population Health Decision Support & Simulation site.\n\n[Note: Number Needed to Treat (NNT): 1/(Baseline risk x Relative Risk Reduction)]\n\nThe formula is: PIN-ER-t = N*Ip*PAR Where: N is the number of people in the population; Ip the baseline risk of the outcome of interest in the population as a whole; t is the time period over which the outcome is measured.\n\nThe PAR/F, Population Attributable Risk (or Fraction), is calculated for two or multiple strata. The basic formula to compute the PAR for dichotomous variables is PAR = Pe*(RR-1)/1+ Pe*(RR-1). Where: Pe is the prevalence of the population within each income stratum as the exposure, and RR is the prevalence of risk factors in each stratum relative to the highest income fifth. This is modified where there are multiple strata to: PAR = [Pe1(RR1-1)+Pe2(RR2-1)+Pe3(RR3-1)…]/[1+Pe1(RR1-1)+Pe2(RR2-1)+ Pe3(RR3-1)...].\nYou can calculate the PIN-ER-t and its confidence intervals at this web site from the Population Health Decision Support & Simulation site.\n"}
{"id": "367129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=367129", "title": "Saint Apollonia", "text": "Saint Apollonia\n\nSaint Apollonia () was one of a group of virgin martyrs who suffered in Alexandria during a local uprising against the Christians prior to the persecution of Decius. According to church tradition, her torture included having all of her teeth violently pulled out or shattered. For this reason, she is popularly regarded as the patroness of dentistry and those suffering from toothache or other dental problems. French court painter Jehan Fouquet painted the scene of St. Apollonia's torture in \"The Martyrdom of St. Apollonia\".\n\nEcclesiastical historians have claimed that in the last years of Emperor Philip the Arabian (reigned 244–249), during otherwise undocumented festivities to commemorate the millennium of the founding of Rome (traditionally in 753 BC, putting the date about 248), the fury of the Alexandrian mob rose to a great height, and when one of their poets prophesied a calamity, they committed bloody outrages on the Christians, whom the authorities made no effort to protect.\n\nDionysius, Bishop of Alexandria (247–265), relates the sufferings of his people in a letter addressed to Fabius, Bishop of Antioch, of which long extracts have been preserved in Eusebius' \"Historia Ecclesiae\". After describing how a Christian man and woman, Metras and Quinta, were seized and killed by the mob, and how the houses of several other Christians were pillaged, Dionysius continues: \n\nAt that time Apollonia, \"parthénos presbytis\" (mostly likely meaning a deaconess) was held in high esteem. These men seized her also and by repeated blows broke all her teeth. They then erected outside the city gates a pile of soldiers and threatened to burn her alive if she refused to repeat after them impious words (either a blasphemy against Christ, or an invocation of the heathen gods). Given, at her own request, a little freedom, she sprang quickly into the fire and was burned to death.\n\nThis brief tale was extended and moralized in Jacobus da Voragine's \"Golden Legend\" (c. 1260).\n\nApollonia and a whole group of early martyrs did not await the death they were threatened with, but either to preserve their chastity or because they were confronted with the alternative of renouncing their faith or suffering death, voluntarily embraced the death prepared for them, an action that runs perilously close to suicide, some thought. Augustine of Hippo touches on this question in the first book of \"The City of God\", apropos suicide:\n\nBut, they say, during the time of persecution certain holy women plunged into the water with the intention of being swept away by the waves and drowned, and thus preserve their threatened chastity. Although they quitted life in this wise, nevertheless they receive high honour as martyrs in the Catholic Church and their feasts are observed with great ceremony. This is a matter on which I dare not pass judgment lightly. For I know not but that the Church was divinely authorized through trustworthy revelations to honour thus the memory of these Christians. It may be that such is the case. May it not be, too, that these acted in such a manner, not through human caprice but on the command of God, not erroneously but through obedience, as we must believe in the case of Samson? When, however, God gives a command and makes it clearly known, who would account obedience there to a crime or condemn such pious devotion and ready service?\"\n\nThe narrative of Dionysius does not suggest the slightest reproach as to this act of St. Apollonia; in his eyes she was as much a martyr as the others, and as such she was revered in the Alexandrian Church. In time, her feast was also popular in the West. A later narrative mistakenly duplicated Apollonia, making her a Christian virgin of Rome in the reign of Julian the Apostate, suffering the same dental fate.\n\nThe Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Churches celebrate the feast day of St. Apollonia on February 9, and she is popularly invoked against the toothache because of the torments she had to endure. She is represented in art with pincers in which a tooth is held.\n\nSaint Apollonia is one of the two patron saints of Catania.\n\nWilliam S. Walsh noted that, though the major part of her relics were preserved in the former church of St. Apollonia at Rome, her head at the Basilica di Santa Maria in Trastevere, her arms at the Basilica di San Lorenzo fuori le Mura, parts of her jaw in St. Basil's, and other relics are in the Jesuit church at Antwerp, in St. Augustine's at Brussels, in the Jesuit church at Mechlin, in St. Cross at Liege, in the treasury of the cathedral of Porto, and in several churches at Cologne. These relics consist in some cases of a solitary tooth or a splinter of bone. In the Middle Ages, objects claimed to be her teeth were sold as toothache cures.\n\nThere was a church dedicated to her in Rome, near the Basilica di Santa Maria in Trastevere, but it no longer exists. Only its little square, the \"Piazza Sant'Apollonia\" remains. One of the principal train stations of Lisbon is also named for this saint. There is a statue of Saint Apollonia in the church at Locronan, France. The island of Mauritius was originally named \"Santa Apolónia\" in her honor in 1507 by Portuguese navigators. A parish church in Eilendorf, a suburb of Aachen, Germany, is named in honor of Saint Apollonia.\n\nThe Madonna Della Strada Chapel at Loyola University Chicago contains a stained glass window on the north wall depicting St. Apollonia. The windows along this wall correspond with the colleges of the university at the time the chapel was built. The Loyola University School of Dentistry closed in 1993, but the window in the chapel remains.\n\nThere are 52 known images of her in various English churches that survived the ravages of the 16th-century Commissioners. These are concentrated in Devon and East Anglia. Most of these images are on the panels of rood screens or featured in stained glass with only one being a stone capital (Stokeinteignhead, Devon). She is also depicted in a tapestry of circa 1499 at St. Mary's Guildhall, Coventry.\n\nBy county, some of the locations are:\n\nHer image is the side support of the arms of the British Dental Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18550042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18550042", "title": "Selective abstraction", "text": "Selective abstraction\n\nIn clinical psychology, selective abstraction is a type of cognitive bias or cognitive distortion in which a detail is taken out of context and believed whilst everything else in the context is ignored. It commonly appears in Aaron T. Beck's work in cognitive therapy. Another definition is: \"focusing\non only the negative aspects of an event, such as, 'I ruined the whole recital because of that one mistake.\n\nA team of researchers analyzed the association between cognitive errors in youths with anxiety disorders by using the Children's Negative Cognitive Error Questionnaire (CNCEQ) and \"several other self-reporting measures\" (Children's Depression Inventory, Childhood Anxiety Sensitivity Index, Revised Children's Manifest Anxiety Scale, and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory for Children-Trait Version). By assessing the CNCEQ, the researchers found that selective abstraction was related to both child depression and \"measures of anxiety (i.e., trait anxiety, manifest anxiety, and anxiety sensitivity)\".\n\nOne study noted that \"some consistent findings have emerged with respect to the presence of specific cognitive errors in anxiety versus depression. 'Selective abstraction' is more commonly associated with depression than with anxiety\".\n"}
{"id": "8311371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8311371", "title": "Syphilitic aortitis", "text": "Syphilitic aortitis\n\nSyphilitic aortitis (SA) is inflammation of the aorta associated with the tertiary stage of syphilis infection. SA begins as inflammation of the outermost layer of the blood vessel, including the blood vessels that supply the aorta itself with blood, the vasa vasorum. As SA worsens, the vasa vasorum undergo hyperplastic thickening of their walls thereby restricting blood flow and causing ischemia of the outer two-thirds of the aortic wall. Starved for oxygen and nutrients, elastic fibers become patchy and smooth muscle cells die. If the disease progresses, syphilitic aortitis leads to an aortic aneurysm. Overall, tertiary syphilis is a rare cause of aortic aneurysms. Syphilitic aortitis has become rare in the developed world with the advent of penicillin treatments after World War II.\n\nInflammatory involvement of tertiary syphilis begins at the adventitia of the aortic arch which progressively causes obliterative endarteritis of the vasa vasorum. This leads to narrowing of the lumen of the vasa vasorum, causing ischemic injury of the medial aortic arch and then finally loss of elastic support and dilation of the vessel. Dissection of the aortic arch is rare due to medial scarring. As a result of this advanced disease process, normal methods of angiography/angioplasty may be impossible for those with suspected coronary artery disease.\n"}
{"id": "10758413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10758413", "title": "The Zimmers", "text": "The Zimmers\n\nThe Zimmers are an English band formed in 2007 and are thought to have the oldest members of any group in the world. The oldest member, Buster Martin, claimed to have been born in 1906, although some sources indicate he was born in 1913. Martin died in 2011. Former lead singer Alf Carretta died on 29 June 2010, aged 93. The group takes its name from the Zimmer frame, the UK term for a mobility aid known in other countries as a walker.\n\nThe band was created as a feature in a BBC Television documentary which aired on 28 May 2007. The feature of forming the band and recording a single was intended to give a voice to the feelings of isolation and imprisonment suffered by the elderly. The Zimmers' logo is a parody of The Beatles' logo, as is the image of them walking across Abbey Road.\n\nOn 7 April 2012, the band performed the Beastie Boys' \"(You Gotta) Fight for Your Right (To Party!)\" on \"Britain's Got Talent\". The band toured in 2013, performing in Warrington on 25 May that year.\n\nThe Zimmers released their first single, a cover of The Who's \"My Generation\", reaching #26 in the UK Singles Chart, on 28 May 2007. The song was produced by Mike Hedges, the video shot by Geoff Wonfor, and it was recorded in the Beatles Studio 2 at Abbey Road.\n\nOn during the 13 July 2007 broadcast of the \"Richard & Judy\" show, The Zimmers announced their cover of The Prodigy's \"Firestarter\". In September 2008, the band released their first full-length album \"Lust for Life\", which featured versions of\nsongs by Eric Clapton, The Beatles and Frank Sinatra.\n\nDocumentary-maker Tim Samuels travelled Britain, investigating the feelings of isolation and imprisonment suffered by the country's elderly, as part of the BBC's \"Power to the People\" series. Samuels recruits pensioners otherwise stuck in institutions and towerblocks, and they air their grievances, culminating in the recording of the group's first single, where the group \"sticks it back to the society that has cast them aside\".\n\n15 members of the band, aged 66 to 88, appeared on \"Britain's Got Talent\" on 7 April 2012, performing the Beastie Boys' track \"(You Gotta) Fight for Your Right (To Party!)\". They walked on stage with thick coats and anoraks. Their oldest member, 88-year-old Grace Cooke, started the audition by singing a slow version of \"What the World Needs Now\". They all then removed their coats, revealing ostentatious jewellery (described as 'bling' by one the judges) and hoodies and began to sing the Beasties track. They received four yes votes and survived through the live semi-finals.\n\nIn the semi-finals The Zimmers again performed a pop song; LMFAO's \"Sexy and I Know It\". They did not get to the finals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1338096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1338096", "title": "Tilth", "text": "Tilth\n\nSoil tilth is its physical condition of soil, especially in relation to its suitability for planting or growing a crop. Factors that determine tilth include the formation and stability of aggregated soil particles, moisture content, degree of aeration, rate of water infiltration and drainage. Tilth can change rapidly, depending on environmental factors such as changes in moisture, tillage and soil amendments. The objective of tillage (mechanical manipulation of the soil) is to improve tilth, thereby increasing crop production; in the long term, however, conventional tillage, especially plowing, often has the opposite effect, causing the soil to break down and become compacted. \n\nSoil with good tilth has large pore spaces for air infiltration and water movement. Roots only grow where the soil tilth allows for adequate levels of soil oxygen. Such soil also holds a reasonable supply of water and nutrients.\n\nTillage, organic matter amendments, fertilization and irrigation can each improve tilth, but when used excessively, can have the opposite effect. Crop rotation and cover crops can positively impact tilth. A combined approach can produce the greatest improvement.\n\nAggregation is positively associated with tilth. With finer-textured soils, aggregates may in turn be made up of smaller aggregates. Aggregation implies substantial pores between individual aggregates.\n\nAggregation is important in the subsoil, the layer below tillage. Such aggregates involve larger (2- to 6-inch) blocks of soil that are more angular and not as distinctive. These aggregates are less impacted by biological activity than the tillage layer. Subsurface aggregates are important for root growth deep into the profile. Deep roots allow greater access to moisture, which helps in drought periods. Subsoil aggregates can also be compacted, mainly by heavy equipment on wet soil. Another significant source of subsoil compaction is the practice of plowing with tractor wheels in the open furrow.\n\nSoil that is well aggregated has a range of pore sizes. Each pore size plays a role in soil's physical functioning. Large pores drain rapidly and are needed for good air exchange during wet periods, preventing oxygen deficiency that can drown plants and increase pest problems. Denitrification by conversion of nitrogen to gaseous forms is increased in oxygen-deficient wet soil. In degraded soil large pores are compressed into small ones.\n\nSmall pores are critical for water retention and help a crop endure dry periods with minimal yield loss.\n\nSoil tilth can be obtained through mechanical and biological manipulation.\n\nMechanical soil cultivation practices, including primary tillage (mold-board or chisel plowing) followed by secondary tillage (disking, harrowing, etc.), break up and aerate soil. When soils become degraded and compacted, such tillage practices are often deemed necessary. The tilth created by tillage, however, tends to be \"unstable\", because the aggregation is obtained through the physical manipulation of the soil, which is short lived, especially after years of intensive tillage. Aggregates in such soils readily dissolve during subsequent rains, causing the soil to settle and become dense and hard, requiring further tillage.\n\nThe preferred scenario for good tilth is as the result of natural soil-building processes, provided by the activity of plant roots, microorganisms, earthworms and other beneficial organisms. Such stable aggregates break apart during tillage/planting and readily provide good tilth. Stable aggregates are held together by organic bonds that resist breakdown during soil saturation. These organic materials are themselves subject to biological degradation, requiring active amendments with organic material, and minimal mechanical tillage.\n\nCrop rotation can help restore tilth in compacted soils. Two processes contribute to this gain. First, accelerated organic matter decomposition from tillage ends under the sod crop. Another way to achieve this is via no-till farming. Second, grass and legume sods develop extensive root systems that continually grow and die off. The dead roots supply a source of active organic matter, which feeds soil organisms that create aggregation. Beneficial organisms need continual supplies of organic matter to sustain themselves and they deposit the digested materials on soil aggregates and thereby stabilize them. Also, the living roots and symbiotic microorganisms (for example, mycorrhizal fungi) can exude organic materials that nourish soil organisms and help with aggregation. Grass and legume sod crops therefore return more organic matter to the soil than most other crops.\n\nSome annual rotation crops such as buckwheat also have dense, fibrous, root systems and can improve tilth. Crop mixtures with different rooting systems can be beneficial. For example, red clover seeded into winter wheat provide additional roots and a more protein-rich organic matter.\n\nOther rotation crops are more valuable for improving subsoils. Perennial crops such as alfalfa have strong, deep, penetrating tap roots that can push through hard layers, especially during wet periods when the soil is soft. These deep roots establish pathways for water and future plant roots, and produce organic matter.\n\nCrops rotation can extend the period of active growth compared to conventional row crops, leaving more organic material behind. For example, in a corn-soybean rotation, active growth occurs 32 percent of the time, while a dry bean–winter wheat–corn rotation is active 72 percent. Crops such as rye, wheat, oat, barley, pea and cool-season grasses grow actively in the late fall and early spring when other crops are inactive. They are beneficial both as rotation and cover crops, although intensive tillage can negate their effects.\n\nThe soil management practices required to maintain soil tilth are a function of the type of soil. Sandy and gravelly soils are naturally deficient in small pores and are therefore drought prone, whereas loams and clays can retain and thus supply crops with more water.\n\nSandy soil has lower capacity to hold water and nutrients. Water is applied more frequently in smaller amounts to avoid it leaching and carrying nutrients below the root zone. Routine application of organic matter increases sandy soil's ability to hold water and nutrients by 10 times or more.\n\nClay soils lack large pores, restricting both water and air movement. During irrigation or rain events, the limited large pore space in fine-textured soils quickly fills with water, reducing soil oxygen levels. In addition to routine application of organic matter, microorganisms and earthworms perform a crucial assist to soil tilth. As microorganisms decompose the organic matter, soil particles bind together into larger aggregates, increasing large pore space. Clay soils are more subject to soil compaction, which reduces large pore spaces\".\"\n\nSuch soils natively have little tilth, especially once they have been disturbed. Adding organic matter up to 25% by volume can help compensate. For example, if tilling to a depth of eight inches, add two inches of organic materials.\n\n"}
{"id": "7421769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7421769", "title": "Trigonitis", "text": "Trigonitis\n\nTrigonitis is a condition of inflammation of the trigone region of the bladder. It is more common in women.\n\nThe cause of trigonitis is not known, and there is no solid treatment. Electrocautery is sometimes used, but is generally unreliable as a treatment, and typically does not have quick results. Several drugs, such as muscle relaxants, antibiotics, antiseptics such as Urised, have varied and unreliable results. Other forms of treatment include urethrotomy, cryosurgery, and neurostimulation.\n\n"}
{"id": "31398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31398", "title": "Twelve-step program", "text": "Twelve-step program\n\nA twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles outlining a course of action for recovery from addiction, compulsion, or other behavioral problems. Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) as a method of recovery from alcoholism, the Twelve Steps were first published in the 1939 book \"Alcoholics Anonymous: The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism.\" The method was adapted and became the foundation of other twelve-step programs.\n\nAs summarized by the American Psychological Association, the process involves the following:\n\nTwelve-step methods have been adapted to address a wide range of alcoholism, substance-abuse and dependency problems. Over 200 self-help organizations—often known as fellowships—with a worldwide membership of millions—now employ twelve-step principles for recovery. Narcotics Anonymous was formed by addicts who did not relate to the specifics of alcohol dependency.\n\nDemographic preferences related to the addicts' drug of choice has led to the creation of Cocaine Anonymous, Crystal Meth Anonymous and Marijuana Anonymous. Behavioral issues such as compulsion for, and/or addiction to, gambling, crime, food, sex, hoarding, debting and work are addressed in fellowships such as Gamblers Anonymous, Overeaters Anonymous, Sexaholics Anonymous and Debtors Anonymous.\n\nAuxiliary groups such as Al-Anon and Nar-Anon, for friends and family members of alcoholics and addicts, respectively, are part of a response to treating addiction as a disease that is enabled by family systems. Adult Children of Alcoholics (ACA or ACOA) addresses the effects of growing up in an alcoholic or otherwise dysfunctional family. Co-Dependents Anonymous () addresses compulsions related to relationships, referred to as codependency.\n\nAlcoholics Anonymous (AA), the first twelve-step fellowship, was founded in 1935 by Bill Wilson and Dr. Robert Holbrook Smith, known to AA members as \"Bill W.\" and \"Dr. Bob\", in Akron, Ohio. In 1946 they formally established the twelve traditions to help deal with the issues of how various groups could relate and function as membership grew. The practice of remaining anonymous (using only ones first names) when interacting with the general public was published in the first edition of the AA Big Book.\n\nAs AA chapters were increasing in number during the 1930s and 1940s, the guiding principles were gradually defined as the Twelve Traditions. A singleness of purpose emerged as Tradition Five: \"Each group has but one primary purpose—to carry its message to the alcoholic who still suffers\". Consequently, drug addicts who do not suffer from the specifics of alcoholism involved in AA hoping for recovery technically are not welcome in \"closed\" meetings unless they have a desire to stop drinking alcohol.\n\nThe principles of AA have been used to form many numbers of other fellowships specifically designed for those recovering from various pathologies; each emphasizes recovery from the specific malady which brought the sufferer into the fellowship.\n\nThe following are the original twelve steps as published by Alcoholics Anonymous:\n\nIn some cases, where other twelve-step groups have adapted the AA steps as guiding principles, step one is uniquely different for each organization, these are sometimes altered to emphasize principles important to those particular fellowships, or to remove gender-biased language.\n\nThe Twelve Traditions accompany the Twelve Steps. The Traditions provide guidelines for group governance. They were developed in AA in order to help resolve conflicts in the areas of publicity, politics, religion and finances. Alcoholics Anonymous' Twelve Traditions are:\n\nIn the twelve-step program human structure is symbolically represented in three dimensions: physical, mental, and spiritual. The problems the groups deal with are understood to manifest themselves in each dimension. For addicts and alcoholics the physical dimension is best described by the allergy-like bodily reaction resulting in the compulsion to continue using substances after the initial use. The statement in the First Step that the individual is \"powerless\" over the substance-abuse related behavior at issue refers to the lack of control over this compulsion, which persists despite any negative consequences that may be endured as a result.\n\nThe mental obsession is described as the cognitive processes that causes the individual to repeat the compulsive behavior after some period of abstinence, either knowing that the result will be an inability to stop or operating under the delusion that the result will be different. The description in the First Step of the life of the alcoholic or addict as \"unmanageable\" refers to the lack of choice that the mind of the addict or alcoholic affords concerning whether to drink or use again.\n\nThe illness of the spiritual dimension, or \"spiritual malady,\" is considered in all twelve-step groups to be self-centeredness. The process of working the steps is intended to replace self-centeredness with a growing moral consciousness and a willingness for self-sacrifice and unselfish constructive action. In twelve-step groups, this is known as a spiritual awakening not a religious experience. This should not be confused with abreaction, which produces dramatic, but ephemeral, changes. In twelve-step fellowships, \"spiritual awakening\" is believed to develop, most frequently, slowly over a period of time.\n\nIn accordance with the First Step, twelve-step groups emphasize self-admission by members of the problem they are recovering from. It is in this spirit that members often identify themselves along with an admission of their problem, often as \"Hi, I’m , and I’m an alcoholic\".\n\nA sponsor is a more experienced person in recovery who guides the less-experienced aspirant (\"sponsee\") through the program's twelve steps. New members in twelve-step programs are encouraged to secure a relationship with at least one sponsor who both has a sponsor and has taken the twelves steps themselves. Publications from twelve-step fellowships emphasize that sponsorship is a \"one on one\" nonhierarchical relationship of shared experiences focused on working the Twelve Steps. According to Narcotics Anonymous:\n\nSponsors share their experience, strength, and hope with their sponsees... A sponsor's role is not that of a legal adviser, a banker, a parent, a marriage counselor, or a social worker. Nor is a sponsor a therapist offering some sort of professional advice. A sponsor is simply another addict in recovery who is willing to share his or her journey through the Twelve Steps.\n\nSponsors and sponsees participate in activities that lead to spiritual growth. Experiences in the program are often shared by outgoing members with incoming members. This rotation of experience is often considered to have a great spiritual reward. These may include practices such as literature discussion and study, meditation, and writing. Completing the program usually implies competency to guide newcomers which is often encouraged. Sponsees typically do their Fifth Step, review their moral inventory written as part of the Fourth Step, with their sponsor. The Fifth Step, as well as the Ninth Step, have been compared to confession and penitence. Michel Foucault, a French philosopher, noted such practices produce intrinsic modifications in the person—exonerating, redeeming and purifying them; relieves them of their burden of wrong, liberating them and promising salvation.\n\nThe personal nature of the behavioral issues that lead to seeking help in twelve-step fellowships results in a strong relationship between sponsee and sponsor. As the relationship is based on spiritual principles, it is unique and not generally characterized as \"friendship\". Fundamentally, the sponsor has the single purpose of helping the sponsee recover from the behavioral problem that brought the sufferer into twelve-step work, which reflexively helps the sponsor recover.\n\nA study of sponsorship as practiced in Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous found that providing direction and support to other alcoholics and addicts is associated with sustained abstinence for the sponsor, but suggested that there were few short-term benefits for the sponsee's one-year sustained abstinence rate.\n\nAlcoholics Anonymous is the largest of all the twelve-step programs (from which all other twelve-steps programs are derived), followed by Narcotics Anonymous; the majority of twelve-step members are recovering from addiction to alcohol or other drugs. The majority of twelve-step programs, however, address illnesses other than substance addiction. For example, the third-largest twelve-step program, Al-Anon, assists family members and friends of people who have alcoholism and other addictions. About twenty percent of twelve-step programs are for substance addiction recovery, the other eighty percent address a variety of problems from debt to depression. It would be an error to assume the effectiveness of twelve-step methods at treating problems in one domain translates to all or to another domain, therefore readers are directed to relevant sections in each group's article.\n\nThe criticisms of twelve-step groups are as varied as the pathologies they address. People have attended twelve-step meetings, only to find success eluded them. Their varied success rate and the belief in a Higher Power suggested in them, are common criticisms of their universal applicability and efficacy.\n\nThe Twelve Traditions encourage members to practice the spiritual principle of anonymity in the public media and members are also asked to respect each other's confidentiality. This is a group norm, however, and not legally mandated; there are no legal consequences to discourage those attending twelve-step groups from revealing information disclosed during meetings. Statutes on group therapy do not encompass those associations that lack a professional therapist or clergyman to whom confidentiality and privilege might apply. Professionals and paraprofessionals who refer patients to these groups, to avoid both civil liability and licensure problems, have been advised that they should alert their patients that, at any time, their statements made in meetings may be disclosed.\n\nOne review warned of detrimental iatrogenic effects of twelve-step philosophy and labeled the organizations as cults, while another review asserts that these programs bore little semblance to religious cults and that the techniques used appeared beneficial to some. Another study found that a twelve-step program's focus on self-admission of having a problem increases deviant stigma and strips members of their previous cultural identity, replacing it with the deviant identity. Another study asserts that the prior cultural identity may not be replaced entirely, but rather members found adapted a bicultural identity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9996777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9996777", "title": "Veterinary pathology", "text": "Veterinary pathology\n\nVeterinary pathologists are doctors of veterinary medicine who specialize in the diagnosis of diseases through the examination of animal tissue and body fluids. Like medical pathology, veterinary pathology is divided into two branches, anatomical pathology and clinical pathology. Other than the diagnosis of disease in food-producing animals, companion animals, zoo animals and wildlife, veterinary pathologists also have an important role in drug discovery and safety as well as scientific research.\n\nAnatomical pathology (\"Commonwealth\") or \"Anatomic pathology\" (\"U.S.\") is concerned with the diagnosis of disease based on the gross examination, microscopic, and molecular examination of organs, tissues, and whole bodies (necropsy). The Indian, European, Japanese and American Colleges of Veterinary Pathologists certify veterinary pathologists through a certifying exam. The American College of Veterinary Pathologist certification exam consists of four parts - gross pathology, microscopic pathology, veterinary pathology, and general pathology. Only the general pathology section is shared between the anatomic and clinical pathology examinations. Anatomic pathologists are employed in a number of different positions, including diagnostics, teaching, research, and the pharmaceutical industry.\n\nClinical pathology is concerned with the diagnosis of disease based on the laboratory analysis of bodily fluids such as blood, urine or cavitary effusions, or tissue aspirates using the tools of chemistry, microbiology, hematology and molecular pathology. The Indian, European, Japanese and American Colleges of Veterinary Pathologists certify veterinary clinical pathologists. The American College of Veterinary Pathologists certification exam consists of four parts: General Pathology (shared with the Anatomic Pathology certifying examination), Cytology and Surgical Pathology, Hematology, and Clinical Chemistry. The credential, DACVP (Diplomate, American College of Veterinary Pathologists) is usually followed by a parenthetical notation of \"(Clinical Pathology)\" to distinguish DACVP counterparts certified for anatomic pathology. The European credential is DipECVCP (Diplomate of the European College of Veterinary Clinical Pathology). Clinical pathologists are employed in diagnostic pathology, veterinary and medical teaching, research, and the pharmaceutical industry.\n\n\n\nFor more Info go to\n\nReferences \n"}
{"id": "14508753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14508753", "title": "Waking up early", "text": "Waking up early\n\nWaking up early is a productivity method of rising early and consistently so as to be able to accomplish more during the day. This method has been recommended since antiquity and is now recommended by a number of personal development gurus. The philosopher Aristotle said, \"It is well to be up before daybreak, for such habits contribute to health, wealth, and wisdom.\"\n\nWithin the context of religious observances, spiritual writers have called this practice \"the heroic minute\", referring to the sacrifice which this entails.\n\n\"Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.\" [John Clarke's Paroemiologia Anglo-Latina, 1639] \n\nBenjamin Franklin is quoted to have said: \"Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise\". It is a saying that is viewed as a commonsensical proverb, which was included in \"A Method of Prayer\" by Mathew Henry who also listed it as a phrase \"long said.\" Franklin is also quoted as saying: \"The early morning has gold in its mouth\", a translation of the German proverb \"Morgenstund hat Gold im Mund\". \n\n\"The early bird gets the worm\" is a proverb that suggests that getting up early will lead to success during the day. \nWhich brings to mind the immediate counterpoint: \"what about the early worm, shouldn't he have stayed in bed?\" \n\nJames Thurber, in his book \"Fables for our Time\", ended the Fable of the Shrike: \"Early to rise and early to bed, makes a Shrike healthy, and wealthy, and dead\".\n\nSuch recommendations may cast individuals with different natural sleep patterns as lazy or unmotivated when it is a much different matter for a person with a longer or delayed sleep cycle to get up earlier in the morning than for a person with an advanced sleep cycle. In effect, the person accustomed to a later wake time is being asked not to wake up an hour early but 3–4 hours early, while waking up \"normally\" may already be an unrecognized challenge imposed by the environment.\n\nThe bias toward early morning can also adversely affect adolescents in particular. Teenagers tend to require at least 9 full hours of sleep each night, and changes to the endocrine system during puberty shift the natural wake time later in the morning. Enforcing early start times despite this can have negative effects on mood, academic performance, and social skills.\n\n\n"}
