{"id": "31065727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31065727", "title": "Actelion", "text": "Actelion\n\nActelion is a pharmaceuticals and biotechnology company established in December 1997, headquartered in Allschwil near Basel in Switzerland.\n\nActelion specializes in orphan diseases. Actelion scientists were among the first to work in the field of endothelian receptor antagonists. The company name might be a reminder for its first product, an endothelian receptor antagonist and the verb \"action\", \"act upon\". Actelion was initially financed with venture capital provided through a syndicate including Atlas Venture, Sofinnova and HealthCap.\n\nActelion has 29 operative affiliates around the world, including the United States, Canada, Brazil, Australia, Japan, Switzerland and a number of EU countries.\nThe Swiss affiliate is located in Baden, the German affiliate in Freiburg, the Austrian one in Vienna, the French one in Paris and the UK affiliate is located in London\n\nIn 2006, the company established the Actelion Endothelin Research Award programme which supports selected clinical research projects.\n\nIn January 2017, Johnson & Johnson announced that it would purchase the company for $30 billion. Actelion's research and development unit would also be spun off after the acquisition. The new company Idorsia was created from former Actelion drug discovery operations and early-stage clinical development assets and listed in June 2017 on the SIX Swiss Exchange.\n\nIn 2018, Johnson & Johnson announced they would discontinue development of one of the phase III drugs it acquired during its purchase of Actelion.\n\nActelion currently has 10 compounds in its pipeline – including 3 in late-stage development – and 4 medicines on the market for orphan diseases:\n\nLate-stage drugs in development by Actelion include:\n\nBy January 2011, Actelion had a total of 2,467 employees, 392 in research, 640 in development and 1017 in sales and marketing. In 2010, Actelion's sales amounted to 1,929 million CHF.\n\nActelion's shares have been listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange (ticker symbol ATLN) since 2000 SWX Swiss Exchange Swiss Leader Index. In September 2008, Actelion shares began trading as part of the Swiss Market Index.\n\nActelion received the \"Prix Hermès de l'innovation\" (Hermès Award for Innovation) in April 2011: The \"European Institute for Creative Strategy and Innovation\", the creator of the Prix Hermès, was founded in 2003 in France.\n\nThe \"performance report for Swiss pharma websites\" awarded Actelion the first Prize in the second consecutive year:.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31815026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31815026", "title": "Adam Rutherford", "text": "Adam Rutherford\n\nAdam David Rutherford (born 1975) is a British geneticist, author, and broadcaster. He was an audio-visual content editor for the journal \"Nature\" for a decade, is a frequent contributor to the newspaper \"The Guardian\", hosts the BBC Radio 4 programme Inside Science, has produced several science documentaries and has published books related to genetics and the origin of life.\n\nRutherford, who is half Guyanese Indian, was born in Ipswich in the East of England and attended Ipswich School.\n\nHe was admitted to the medical school at University College London, but transferred to a degree in evolutionary genetics, including a project under Steve Jones studying stalk-eyed flies. He was awarded a PhD in genetics in 2002 by University College London for research completed at the UCL Institute of Child Health at Great Ormond Street Hospital. His PhD thesis subject was the role of a specific gene (CHX10) on eye development, with focus on the effect of mutations in this gene on the development of eye disorders.\nRutherford's other academic research was also on genetic causes of eye disorders, including the relation of retinoschisin to retinoschisis, the role of mutations of the gene CRX in retinal dystrophy, and the role of the gene CHX10 in microphthalmia in humans and mice.\n\nRutherford published a book on the topic of the creation of life. The United Kingdom printing has been called \"two books in one\", since \"Creation: The Origin of Life\" and \"Creation: The Future of Life\" are printed back-to-back so that one can read the book from either end. Among its topics, the first part of the book argues in support of the theory, first proposed by Thomas Gold, that life emerged not in primordial warm ponds, but in extremophile conditions in the deep ocean, while the second part discusses \"synthetic biology\" – the use of genetic modification to create new organisms. In the United States this book is published in a more conventional format with the title, \"Creation: How Science Is Reinventing Life Itself\". He was also one of the authors whose works are included in the compilation \"The Atheist's Guide to Christmas\".\n\nRutherford was the Podcast Editor and the audio-video editor for the journal \"Nature\" until 2013, responsible for all the publication's published audio, video, and podcasts. He also published audio interviews with notable personalities, including Paul Bettany on his role playing Charles Darwin in the movie \"Creation\", and David Attenborough on his documentary \"Charles Darwin and the Tree of Life\". He wrote editorials on other diverse topics ranging from the overlap of Art and Science to reviews of science-themed movies.\n\nRutherford is a frequent contributor to \"The Guardian\", writing primarily on science topics. He wrote a blog series covering his thoughts and analysis while re-reading Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\", and has written articles supporting the teaching of evolution in schools, and criticizing the teaching of creationism as science.\n\nHe also writes on religion, notably a 10-part series on his experience participating in the Alpha course, and on New Age themes and alternative medicine, including a review critical of Rupert Sheldrake's \"A New Science of Life\", and criticism of the lack of controls on advertising claims for homeopathy.\n\nAs a guest writer, he published an article in \"Wired\" on the possibility of using DNA for information storage.\n\nRutherford frequently appears on BBC science programmes, on both radio and television. Since 2013 he has been the host of the program \"Inside Science\" on BBC Radio 4. In 2012 he was featured on the series \"Horizon\" on BBC Two television in the documentary \"Playing God\", which covered synthetic biology using the example of the \"Spider Goat\", a goat genetically modified to produce spider silk in its milk. In 2011 he presented, on BBC Four, \"The Gene Code\", a two-part series on the implications of the decoding of the human genome, and his documentary, \"Science Betrayed\", detailed the story of the discredited link between the MMR vaccine and autism. In 2010, \"The Cell\", his 3-part series on the discovery of cells and the development of cell biology, presented on BBC Four, was included in the \"Daily Telegraph\"'s list of \"10 classic science programmes\". In 2006, Discovery Science produced the six-episode TV series, \"Men in White\", in which three scientists, Rutherford, Basil Singer, and Jem Stansfield applied science to the solution of everyday problems.\n\nHe also appeared in BBC Radio 4's \"The Infinite Monkey Cage\", with physicist Brian Cox, physician and science writer Ben Goldacre, author Simon Singh, musician Tim Minchin, and comedians Helen Arney and Robin Ince, and with \"The Infinite Monkey Cage Tour\", the live show based on the programme.\nRutherford is a frequent guest on the Little Atoms radio chat show, and he has also acted as a science advisor on programmes such as \"The Cat in the Hat Knows a Lot About That!\", and the film \"World War Z\". In 2011 he conceived and directed \"Space Shuttles United\", a video and musical tribute to all the space shuttle missions.\n\nRutherford is a frequent speaker at scientific and academic events.\n\nIn 2013 he was an invited speaker at the in Manchester and at the 2013 North East Postgraduate Conference, and he delivered the 11th Douglas Adams Memorial Lecture at the Royal Geographical Society in London for Save the Rhino International. In 2012 he delivered the annual Darwin Day Lecture for the British Humanist Association.\n\nRutherford was a judge and host of the award ceremonies for the 2012 and 2013 Google Science Fairs. He is also a frequent guest at local science and sceptical events, such as \"Skeptics in the Pub\".\n\nIn June 2017, Rutherford participated in a public discussion with Alan Alda at the University of Dundee, on the occasion of Alda's receiving an honorary degree from that institution.\n\nIn November 2017, he participated in a debate with Prof. Robert Winston on the subject of superhumans at the University of Southampton.\n\n"}
{"id": "5952284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5952284", "title": "Administrative detention", "text": "Administrative detention\n\nAdministrative detention is arrest and detention of individuals by the state without trial, usually for security reasons. A large number of countries, both democratic and undemocratic, resort to administrative detention as a means to combat terrorism, to control illegal immigration, or to protect the ruling regime.\n\nUnlike criminal incarceration (imprisonment) imposed upon conviction following a trial, administrative detention is a forward-looking mechanism. While criminal proceedings have a retrospective focus – they seek to determine whether a defendant committed an offense in the past – the reasoning behind administrative detention often is based upon contentions that the suspect is likely to pose a threat in the future. It is meant to be preventive in nature rather than punitive (see preventive detention). The practice has been criticized by human rights organizations as a breach of civil and political rights.\n\nAdministrative detentions are defined in the law of many of the world's states. In democratic countries using administrative detention as a counter-terrorism measure, the rationale given by its proponents is that legal existing systems are ill suited to handle the specific challenges presented by terrorism. Proponents of administrative detention maintain that criminal law's reliance on defendant rights and strict rules of evidence cannot be used effectively to remove the threat of dangerous terrorists. Some of the reasons often used to support this claim are that the information used to identify terrorists and their plots may include extremely sensitive intelligence sources and methods, the disclosure of which during trial would undermine future counter-terrorism operations. It is also claimed that the conditions under which some suspected terrorists are captured, especially in combat zones, make it impossible to prove criminal cases using normal evidentiary rules. Proponents also maintain that criminal prosecution is designed primarily to punish past behavior, thus it is deliberately skewed in favor of defendant, in order to assure that few, if any, innocents are punished. Counter-terrorism, on the other hand, aims to prevent future action, and thus requires a system that is weighed more heavily toward reducing the possibility of future harm, by ensuring that no guilty party will go free.\n\nThe Laws of War are also seen by the proponents as inadequate. These laws allow the capture of enemy fighters, and also allow holding them for the duration of hostilities without trial. However, these laws grew out of the need to regulate combat between professional armies accountable to a sovereign state, who were engaged in combat of possibly lengthy, but finite duration. Attempting to apply these laws to terrorists who are intermingled with a civilian population and accountable to no-one opens the possibility of indefinite detention without trial, combined with a substantial likelihood of error.\n\nOpponents of administrative detention challenge the above assumptions. While acknowledging the need to protect the sources and methods used to obtain sensitive intelligence, they maintain that existing laws, such as the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and the Classified Information Procedures Act (CIPA), successfully balance the need to protect sensitive information, including the sources and means of intelligence gathering, with defendants' fair trial rights. They point to the historical record of prosecutors who were able to obtain convictions against terrorists on the basis of existing laws. Opponents maintain that in essence, administrative detention is a form of collective punishment. Since it does not require proof of individual guilt, it attributes to all members of a group the actions of a few.\n\nMany countries utilize administrative detention to hold illegal immigrants – those arriving at a country's borders without proper authorization – as an interim step to either deportation or the obtainment of proper legal status. Immigration detention is controversial because it presents a clash between traditional notions of individual liberty and the territorial sovereignty of states. Comparative studies on administrative detention practices of different countries found that those experiencing large-scale influxes of illegal migrants by sea (such as the United States and Australia) typically have the most draconian systems. Proponents of administrative detention for illegal immigrants claim that detention is required since these immigrants have not committed any crime for which they could be prosecuted under existing laws, and that allowing them to await their potential deportation while not in custody runs a risk of their absconding. Opponents maintain that alternatives to detention exist, and that such alternatives are preferable because they do not violate personal liberty, as well as being less of a financial burden to the state. Among the alternatives suggested are supervised release to a non-governmental organization (NGO), the release into the custody of a private citizen who will guarantee the immigrant's participation in immigration hearings, and \"open detention\" centers with mandatory reporting requirements.\n\nIn many non-democratic countries, administrative detention is used by the ruling regime to suppress dissent and sanction opponents of the government. In Asia in particular, administrative detention was first introduced by the British and French colonial authorities prior to and during World War II. Created as a mechanism to control political dissent, it has ironically survived and made its way into the law books of the now-independent former colonies, who legitimized its use against their own political opponents in their constitutions. In many cases, they were and codified as \"emergency measures\" or \"internal security\" acts. Bangladesh, India, Malaysia, Myanmar, Pakistan, Singapore and Sri Lanka are notable examples of such former colonies who hold political prisoners under administrative detention which has its legal roots in British colonial practices. Vietnam is an example where administrative detention was widely used by the French colonial authorities in the 1930s, to arrest those suspected of Communist activities. Post-independence, the now-ruling Communist authorities have employed very similar means to detain those suspected of ``counter-revolutionary\" offenses.\nSome of these political prisoners, such as Aung San Suu Kyi in Myanmar, have become known worldwide due to the detention, and their cause is championed by human rights organizations.\n\nArmenia has been criticized by Human Rights Watch for not fully reforming the legal framework it inherited from the former Soviet Union, and failing to bring its administrative detention system into accord with prevailing international norms. During the 2003 Presidential elections, Armenian police arbitrarily applied the Code of Administrative Offenses, under which administrative detention is authorized, to lock up dozens of opposition activists and supporters for periods of up to fifteen days.\n\nLike many other countries experiencing large scale illegal immigration, such as Canada and the United States, Australia has a system of mandatory administrative detention for illegal immigrants, or asylum seekers who arrive at its shores without proper visas. The legal basis for this system is found in Australia's Migration Act 1958 (Cth), which authorized the indefinite detention of an unlawful non-citizen who can not be deported immediately. Human Rights Watch criticized this Australian policy, claiming it seriously contravenes Australia's obligations to non-citizens, refugees and asylum seekers under international human rights and refugee law. Additionally, opposition to the system on humanitarian grounds came from a range of religious, community and political groups including the National Council of Churches in Australia, Amnesty International, the Australian Greens and Rural Australians for Refugees\n\nAdministrative detentions in Brazil are admitted only for members of the military. Any member of the Brazilian Armed Forces may be imprisoned if found to be repeatedly in violation of the Military Disciplinary Regulations (\"Regulamento Disciplinar\") by his or her superiors. Each military branch has issued a list of \"transgressions\" in their Disciplinary Regulations. The harshest punishment of this kind, in the Brazilian Army, is a 30-day imprisonment penalty.\n\nNotwithstanding, members of the Brazilian Armed Forces under administrative detention may be granted a \"habeas corpus\" by the justice system to deliver them from imprisonment. They retain their full rights as citizens.\n\nIn an overview that describes Myanmar as \"one of the most repressive countries in Asia\", Human Rights Watch quotes a Red Cross report that states that in 2002, there were approximately 3,500 detainees in Myanmar, of which 1,300 are political prisoners, including parliament members. Burmese authorities often extend the detention of prisoners who have already served their prison sentences, by placing them under administrative detention. This practice is used even with elderly and infirm prisoners. One of the most notable cases of this practice was the detention of Aung San Suu Kyi.\n\nThe use of administrative detention in China has been commonplace since before 1949. At that time, it was used primarily against minor offenders as well as against opium addicts, prostitutes, vagrants and those considered to be insane. Since the 1978 legal reforms in China, the public security organs (gong'an jiguan), primarily the police, hold administrative detention powers which are used alongside the state's criminal justice system. Administrative detention is used against subjects that are viewed by the ruling regime as \"socially undesirable\", in order to maintain public order, social stability and political stability of the ruling regime. This target group includes prostitutes and their clients, drug addicts, political dissenters and petty criminals, who perform legal misdemeanors that are not serious enough for criminal prosecution. Custody and repatriation (Chinese: 收容遣送; Pinyin: shōuróng qiǎnsòng) was also used until 2003 for people, especially peasants, who did not have required papers.\n\nThere are three main forms of these administrative detentions: \"detention for education\" (\"Shourong jiaoyu\"), coercive drug rehabilitation (\"Qiangzhi jiedu\"), and \"reeducation through labor\" (\"Laodong jiaoyang\"). In addition, administrative detention is used for several internal security reasons, such as detention under the Security Administrative Punishments Law (\"Xingzheng juliu\"); Administrative detention for questioning of suspects (\"Luizhi panwen\"); and detention of juvenile offenders in work-study schools (\"Gongdu Xuexiao\")\n\nThe use of administrative detention in China has been criticized by international human rights organizations, as well as by domestic groups. These criticisms maintain that the police often abuse their power, that the execution of these powers is at the complete discretion of the police, and that there are no legal constraints placed on their execution.\n\nEgypt's Emergency Law No. 162 of 1958 authorizes the government to suspend basic civil liberties by declaring a state of emergency. Such a state of emergency has been in force almost continuously since 1967. Acting under this law, Egyptian authorities have administratively detained individuals who were suspected of membership in banned organizations such as the Muslim Brotherhood, as well as individuals engaged in peaceful demonstrations expressing opposition to the war in Iraq or support for the Palestinian uprising. Human Rights Watch has criticized this practice as the use of emergency legislation for 'repression of public dissent'. Amnesty International charges that relatives of political prisoners in Egypt have been administratively detained solely because of their family relationship. The Egyptian government refuses to disclose how many administrative detainees are held, but human rights groups estimate that 16,000-20,000 are held in detention without charge.\n\nIreland utilizes administrative detention to control illegal immigration. Beginning in 1996, a legal framework was put in place to authorize the use of administrative detention for this purpose. This legal framework includes the Refugee Act, 1996, the Immigration Acts, 1999, 2003 and 2004, and the Illegal Immigrants (Trafficking) Act 2000. According to official Irish government statistics, in 2003-2004, a total of 2,798 people were administratively detained for immigration-related reasons, two thirds of whom were held in prison for periods of longer than 51 days. The vast majority (more than 90%) of detainees are held in one of two Dublin prisons, Cloverhill Prison (male detainees) and the Dóchas Centre at Mountjoy Prison (female detainees). The rest are held in prisons as well as border control (Garda Síochána) stations.\n\nThe Council of Europe and human rights organizations have criticized the overcrowded conditions in which the detainees are held, as well as the fact that detainees are held together with convicted criminals. In addition, Human Rights Consultants have reported that Irish law does not protect the rights of detainees, by not informing them of their right to challenge the legality of their detention, nor recognizing their rights to have access to a lawyer and to have access to medical care.\n\nThe legal basis for Israel's use of Administrative Detention is the British Mandate 1945 Defence (Emergency) Regulations which were amended in 1979 to form the Israeli Law on Authority in States of Emergency. Administrative detention is for six-month terms, although they can be extended barring appeal. Administrative detention is also used in cases where the available evidence consists of information obtained by the security services (particularly the Shin Bet), and where a trial would reveal sensitive security information, such as the identities of informers or infiltrators.\n\nAlthough it is commonly applied to alleged Palestinian militants, it has occasionally been applied to Jewish Israeli citizens, including Jewish right-wing public-figures and activists (notably in the aftermath of the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin) and in more recent years sometimes to settlers for short periods.\n\nWithin Israel, the Minister of Defense has the authority to issue Administrative Detention orders for up to 6 months in cases where there is a reasonable chance that the person harms the security of the state. The same officeholder has the authority to renew such orders. Likewise, the Chief of the General Staff can issue such orders, but valid for only 48 hours. Law enforcement authorities have to show cause within 48 hours (in a hearing behind closed doors). Administrative Detention orders can be appealed to the District Court and, if denied there, to the Supreme Court of Israel. The District Court can annul such orders if it finds the administrative detention occurred for reasons other than security (mainly for common crimes or the exercise of freedom of expression). Overall supervisory authority on the application of the relevant law rests with the Minister of Justice.\n\nWithin the West Bank and Gaza Strip, any Israeli district army commander can issue an administrative detention order, and the order can be appealed at the Israeli district military court, or, if denied there, at the Supreme Court. Here too, an administrative detention order is valid for at most six months, but can be renewed by the appropriate authority. Israel refers its use of administrative detention in the occupied territories to Article 78 of the Fourth Geneva Convention 1949, which states that \"If the Occupying Power considers it necessary, for imperative reasons of security, to take safety measures concerning protected persons, it may, at the most, subject them to assigned residence or to internment.\"\n\nAccording to Addameer, Israel held 285 Palestinians in administrative detention in June 2012. Eighteen of them were members of parliament, out of 4,706 prisoners. According to B'Tselem, as of April 2012, about 308 Palestinians were being held under administrative detention by the Israel Prisons Service (IPS) and statistics on those held by the IDF were unavailable. According to IPS figures for December 2012, 178 Palestinians were being held in administrative detention (without charge or trial). As of December 2013, B'Tselem reported that 140 Palestinians were being held under administrative detention by the IPS.\n\nIn August 2015, the Israeli Government has approved the usage of administrative detention against Israeli terror suspects in order to combat the growing \"price tag\" conflict.\n\nIn Japan, immigration detention is a form of administration detention under the Immigration Control and Refugee Recognition Act, Act No. 319 of 1951 (ICRRA). Minors and asylum seekers can also be subject to administrative detention.\n\nThe Crime Prevention Law (No. 7 of 1954) in Jordan authorizes administrative detention. Authority resides with Jordan's provincial governors and the administrators of provincial subdivisions. The law allows the detention of anyone \"about to commit a crime or to assist in its commission\", people who \"'habitually' steal, shelter thieves, or fence stolen goods\" or anyone deemed to present \"a danger to the people\" if they are not detained. Although the Crime Prevention Law does not provide a legal basis for the use of administrative detention for \"protective custody\", the law was routinely used until 2007 to detain women at risk of violence, honor killing by family members for example. The use of the law in this way has been criticized by the United Nations and Human Rights Watch. In 2007, the government opened the Wifaq Center for women at risk of violence, and in 2008, women who had been in protective custody were transferred from prison to the center, although the practice of sending women to prison for \"protective custody\" using the Crime Prevention Law has not completely ceased. Detained women cannot obtain their own release, the transfer must be approved by the family members who have threatened the women. According to Jordan's National Centre for Human Rights, administrative detention was used in 11,870 cases in 2008, 16,050 in 2009, 12,345 in 2010, and 11,345 in 2011. The law does not provide for independent or court review of the administrative detention decisions although detainees can petition the High Court of Justice.\n\nLegislative Decree No. 51 of 22 December 1962 introduced the State of Emergency Law, which came into force on 8 March 1963, that allowed the security forces to hold suspects in preventive detention without judicial oversight for indefinite periods.\n\nThe United Kingdom has maintained many forms of administrative detention over the years. The most recent forms were a series of Acts intended to introduce a form of administrative detention to Northern Ireland under the auspices of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act 1974. This Act allowed the security forces to apprehend and detain persons suspected of terrorist activities without trial for an unlimited period. The introduction of the Act led directly to the creation of internment camps (particularly Long Kesh (the Maze) and the prison ship HMS \"Maidstone\" where suspects were detained, some for protracted periods.\nThe Act of 1974 was amended a number of times during the late 20th and early 21st century, the most recent incarnation being the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2005 which introduced the concept of the control order, itself a more politically palatable means of limiting the freedom of a suspect without the need to provide a court of law with \"prima facie\" evidence of any wrongdoing.\n\nThe United States currently uses indefinite detention without trial – known under various names as internment, civil commitment, preventive detention or administrative detention – to hold people who fall within a few narrow categories, including the mentally ill (involuntary commitment), and \"sexually violent predators\", though the right of habeas corpus still applies, and some determinations regarding mental illness and sexual dangerousness are made by juries.\n\nDuring World War II, the United States detained over 100,000 Japanese Americans in internment camps; smaller numbers of German Americans and Italian Americans were interned.\n\nThe United States also utilizes administrative detention as a counter-terrorism measure, and as a means to control illegal immigration. There are approximately 100,000 persons in removal proceedings at any one time, and about 31,000 held in detention during these proceedings.\n\nFollowing the September 11 attacks, the Patriot Act was passed. The Act expanded the authority of law enforcement agencies to use administrative detention for the stated purpose of fighting terrorism in the United States and abroad. Under the Act, any person (citizen or alien) suspected of terrorist connections may be administratively detained for up to seven days without the benefit of an \"habeas corpus\" proceeding. The Attorney General of the United States, at his discretion, may extend this seven-day period to six months, and this extension itself may be renewed indefinitely – legally creating the possibility of lifetime imprisonment without ever facing charges. One of the criticisms of the PATRIOT Act is that the Attorney General's decision is not subject to any judicial review, unlike the situation in other democratic countries which have similar administrative detention laws.\n\nAs part of the War on Terror, and particularly during and after the War in Afghanistan, U.S. forces captured hundreds of terrorists, who were subsequently detained without trial at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp. The United States initially refused to grant these detainees prisoner of war status, holding that they were illegal enemy combatants because they did not meet the requirements set down by the Third Geneva Convention. Of the 775 detainees incarcerated at Guantanamo, 420 have been released without charge, and only one has been tried and convicted. U.S. authorities claim that they intend to put 60 to 80 more on trial.\n\nAdministrative detention practices have come under severe criticism, with critics claiming that it breaches human rights.\nAmnesty International believes that administrative detention breaches Article 9 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) which \"makes clear that no-one should be subjected to arbitrary detention and that deprivation of liberty must be based on grounds and procedures established by law\". The ICCPR does allow a government, under narrow circumstances, such as a public emergency threatening the life of a nation, to temporarily derogate from its obligation not to engage in arbitrary detention.\n\nAmnesty International is also concerned that prisoners of conscience are being \"held solely for the non-violent exercise of their right to freedom of expression and association\".\n\nThe United Nations has created the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention on the issue. One of the issues the group has focused on is the determination whether a detention is arbitrary or not – which is not as clear-cut in the case of administrative detention as it is in the case of criminal arrest. The group has proposed certain guidelines to aid in such determination. For example, it has suggested that any deprivations of liberty that violate the freedom of association must be deemed arbitrary. Based on these guidelines, the group has condemned countries who have used long-term administrative detention when the detainees were held for the mere fact of belonging to an \"illegal organization\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13737983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13737983", "title": "Alkaline hydrolysis (body disposal)", "text": "Alkaline hydrolysis (body disposal)\n\nAlkaline hydrolysis (also called biocremation, resomation, flameless cremation, or water cremation) is a process for the disposal of human remains using lye and heat. The process is being marketed as an alternative to the traditional options of burial or cremation.\n\nThe process is based on alkaline hydrolysis: the body is placed in a pressure vessel that is then filled with a mixture of water and lye, and heated to a temperature around , but at an elevated pressure, which prevents boiling. Instead, the body is effectively broken down into its chemical components, which takes approximately four to six hours. A lower temperature and pressure may be used, but at a longer duration (, 14 to 16 hours). At the beginning of the process, the mixture is strongly basic, with a pH level of approximately 14; pH drops to 11 by the end, but the final pH level depends on the total operation time and the amount of fat in the body.\n\nThe end result is a quantity of green-brown tinted liquid (containing amino acids, peptides, sugars and salts) and soft, porous white bone remains (calcium phosphate) easily crushed in the hand (although a cremulator is more commonly used) to form a white-colored dust. The \"ash\" can then be returned to the next of kin of the deceased. The liquid is disposed of either through the sanitary sewer system, or through some other method, including use in a garden or green space. To dispose of , approximately of water are used, resulting in of effluent, which carries a dried weight of (approximately 2% of original weight).\n\nThis alkaline hydrolysis process has been championed by a number of ecological campaigning groups, for using 90 kW-hr of electricity, one-quarter the energy of flame-based cremation and producing less carbon dioxide and pollutants. It also produces no mercury emissions. It is being presented as an alternative option at some British crematorium sites. , about 1,000 people had chosen this method for the disposition of their remains in the United States. Excluding the capital investment cost of equipment, the operating cost of materials, maintenance, and labor associated with the disposal of of remains was estimated at $116.40.\n\nAlkaline hydrolysis has also been adopted by the pet and animal industry. A handful of companies in North America offer the procedure as an alternative to pet cremation. Alkaline hydrolysis is also used in the agricultural industry to sterilize animal carcasses that may pose a health hazard, because the process inactivates viruses, bacteria, and transmissible spongiform encephalopathy.\n\nThe process was originally developed as a method to process animal carcasses into plant food, patented by Amos Herbert Hobson in 1888, in 2007, a Scottish biochemist, Sandy Sullivan, started a company making the machines calling the process (and company) Resomation.\n\nIn Christian countries and cultures, cremation has historically been discouraged, but now in many denominations it is accepted.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church permits ordinary cremation of bodies as long as it is not done in denial of the beliefs in the sacredness of the human body or the resurrection of the dead.\n\nWhen alkaline hydrolysis was proposed in New York state the New York State Catholic Conference condemned the practice, stating that hydrolysis does not show sufficient respect for the teaching of the intrinsic dignity of the human body.\n\nAlkaline hydrolysis as a method of final disposition of human remains is currently legal in sixteen states, including Oregon, Minnesota, Maryland, Maine, Kansas, Illinois, Florida, Colorado, Georgia, Wyoming, Idaho, Nevada, California, and Utah. Additional rules are pending in New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. The process was legal in New Hampshire for several years but amid opposition by religious lobby groups it was banned in 2008 and a proposal to legalize it was rejected in 2013. \nAlkaline hydrolysis has been used for cadavers donated for research at the University of Florida since the mid 1990s and at the Mayo Clinic since 2005. UCLA uses the process to dispose of donor bodies.\n\nSaskatchewan approved the process in 2012, becoming the first province to do so.\nQuebec and Ontario have also legalized the process.\nA funeral home in Granby, Quebec has become the first in the province to receive an alkaline hydrolysis machine.\n\nA public crematorium operated by Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council at Rowley Regis, central England, was the first to receive planning permission to offer the process but in March 2017 the local water utility, Severn Trent Water, refused the council's application for a \"trade effluent permit\" because there was no water industry standard regulating the disposal of liquified human remains into sewers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51708148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51708148", "title": "Anabel Flores Salazar", "text": "Anabel Flores Salazar\n\nAnabel Flores Salazar (c. 1984 – 9 February 2016), a Mexican journalist working for the \"El Sol de Orizaba\" in Orizaba, Veracruz, Mexico, was murdered and found dead on the Cuacnopalan-Tehuacan highway in Puebla, Mexico. Her death is one of many in the Veracruz region thought to be related to drug cartel violence.\n\nAnabel Flores Salazar was a Mexican journalist. She was thirty two years old when she was kidnapped and murdered. She lived in a house in the mountains of Mariano Escobedo, which is located in Orizaba, Veracruz. Salazar's aunt, Sandra Luz Salazar, was with her on the day that she was kidnapped. Salazar was married to a previous commander of the Nogales police, Alejandro Báez Juárez. She was the mother of a 2-week-old newborn and a young son when she was kidnapped from her home.\n\nAnabel Flores Salazar worked as a freelance reporter for the newspaper \"El Sol de Orizaba\" at the time of her death. She had worked as a reporter for at least six years prior to her murder. Before her job at \"El Sol de Orizaba,\" she had also reported for other news outlets such as \"El Mundo de Orizaba\" and \"El Buen Tono\". Salazar worked for \"El Buen Tono\" before she began working for \"El Sol de Orizaba\". However, due to her investment in a vehicle that seemed to be out of her price range, Salazar's boss thought she was secretly working with criminals to gain more money. Because of this, she was let go from her job at \"El Buen Tono\" nearly a year before her death.\n\nIn her reports, Salazar investigated local crimes such as vehicle accidents and police duties. In addition, she often wrote about murders, often finding a connection with teenage girl victims and the drug cartel in the area. Due to her investigation of the murders of young females, she coined the term \"femicida\" in her writing.\n\nOn Monday, February 8, 2016, fifteen days after giving birth to her baby, Anabel Flores Salazar was abducted from her home. The next day, Tuesday, February 9, 2016, her tied up body was recovered on the side of a road. Her corpse was located thirty minutes from her home in Mariano Escobedo, in the state of Puebla alongside the Cuacnopalan-Tehuacan highway. When she was discovered, her head had been covered by a plastic bag, her pants were around her ankles, and her hands were bound tightly against her back. The cause of her death was deemed to be suffocation. Salazar was the third Mexican journalist who had been murdered in 2016.\n\nSalazar's aunt, Sandra Luz Salazar, witnessed eight people that were dressed in dark military fatigues and wielding weapons enter the Salazar household around two in the morning on February 8, 2016. The criminals stated they carried a warrant for the arrest of Anabel Flores Salazar as they aimed their weapons at the family. Salazar was feeding her 2-week-old newborn at the time of their arrival. The people in fatigues forcefully took her from her home, threw her into a large vehicle, and drove away. After Salazar's family reported the incident, local police began a search for Salazar, placing clearance zones along heavily traveled roads in the area. Her body was found the next day on February 9, 2016.\n\nWhen Mexican authorities learned of Salazar's kidnapping, they opened an investigation regarding her involvement with a local drug cartel. The investigation was started because she had been previously seen at the same restaurant as a leader of the infamous drug gang, Los Zetas. However, her aunt, Sandra, confirmed that Salazar was only at the restaurant to enjoy a meal with her family and had had no connection with the man.\n\nTwo arrests have been made regarding Salazar's murder. The first was the arrest of Gonzalo Paulo \"N\" which was made in May 2016. The second arrest was of Manuel \"N\" also known as El Cacharro, a suspected leader of Los Zetas.\n\nIt is believed that Salazar's murder is connected to drug cartel violence. The same day that Salazar's body was found, two other bodies were uncovered on a property connected to illegal activities, including drug storage. These bodies were connected to a crime that Salazar had been investigating before she was murdered. In addition, in the days following Salazar's murder, a newspaper that she had previously worked for, \"El Buen Tono\", was being threatened with arson by alleged members of the drug gang, Los Zetas.\n\nMexico is known for its drug related violence which causes it to be very dangerous for journalists. The state of Veracruz is one of the most dangerous. Several journalists have been murdered and a few have vanished in Veracruz since 2010. Many account these occurrences to the election of Governor Javier Duarte in 2010.\n\nAnabel Flores Salazar is only one of several journalists who have been murdered in reaction to his or her job. Veracruz is an exceedingly dangerous area for journalists to live and report in. There have been six murders, seven ongoing investigations of murders, and three missing person reports in the state since 2011. These reports were confirmed to be in retaliation of the victim's journalism career.\n\nSalazar's murder had an impact internationally due to Governor Duarte's false accusations of her involvement with a member of Los Zetas. Several organized groups have been vocal in their dismissal of Governor Duarte's condemning of journalists. UNESCO, the Committee to Protect Journalists, and several other organizations have issued statements regarding Anabel Flores Salazar's murder.\n\nIrina Bokova, UNESCO's director-general, said, \"I condemn the murder of Anabel Flores Salazar. This crime has deprived people of a voice that nourished informed public debate and contributed to the free flow of information. In the name of justice and in order to promote safer working conditions for journalists, I call on the authorities to investigate this crime and bring its perpetrators to trial.\"\n\nA spokesperson for the Committee to Protect Journalists, Carlos Lauría, said, \"The administration of Governor Javier Duarte Ochoa has a dismal record of impunity and has been incapable and unwilling to prosecute crimes against the press. We urge federal authorities to take over the investigation into Anabel Flores Salazar's murder, seriously look her journalism as a possible motive, and bring all those responsible to justice.\"\n\nThe European Union said, \"The Delegation and the Embassies of the Member States of the European Union in Mexico trust that the competent Mexican authorities will carry out an investigation expeditious, transparent and effective to clarify the facts, to identify and to judge the culprits, considering among other reasons those linked to the exercise of their profession.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30894567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30894567", "title": "Anglo-Saxon burial mounds", "text": "Anglo-Saxon burial mounds\n\nAnglo-Saxon burial mounds refers to the burial mounds - also known as barrows or tumuli - that were produced during the late sixth and seventh centuries CE in Anglo-Saxon England. Such barrows were \"princely burials\", being of high status individuals who would have been members of the social elite within their local tribal group. Some of the most prestigious were \"chamber burials\", containing a richly furnished wooden chamber within the mound, but in others the corpse had simply been buried into the ground and had a mound erected on top.\n\nEarly Anglo-Saxon burial involved both inhumation and cremation, with burials then being deposited in cemeteries. At this time, the Anglo-Saxons adhered to a pagan religion, but as Christianity was introduced in the seventh century, it gradually became the dominant and eventually sole religion amongst the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. Many of those buried in barrows were pagan, but others were instead Christian, and it is usually impossible for archaeologists to know which religion an individual belonged to.\n\nEarlier peoples living in Britain during the Neolithic and Bronze Ages had also constructed barrows for use as places of burial, something that was recognised by the Anglo-Saxon burial builders, who in many cases re-used these earlier barrows for their own uses.\n\nTumulus burials were not restricted to the Anglo-Saxons, but had a long pedigree in prehistoric and early mediaeval Europe. By this latter date, when the Anglo-Saxon society existed, such burials were not restricted to any one cultural or ethnic group, with Germanic-speaking, Slavic-speaking and Celtic-speaking peoples of the period all taking part in such a burial practice for elite members of their societies.\n\nIn the Roman Iron Age, whilst the construction of barrows had ended in Britain, it had continued in areas of continental Europe free from Roman domination. The Hallstatt culture which existed in central Europe between c. 750 and 400 BCE utilised chamber burials within barrows as the way of commemorating deceased members of the social elite. The most prominent known Hallstatt example is the Hochdorf Chieftain's Grave, which dates from c. 550 BCE and which was richly laden with grave goods.\n\nBy the sixth century CE, when the practice of building burial mounds is first adopted by the Anglo-Saxons, it was also being practiced by other Germanic-speaking peoples on continental Europe. In the German region of Thuringia, several important chamber burial barrows have been excavated, including at a cemetery in Trossingen which dates to c. 580 CE, thereby being contemporary with similar Anglo-Saxon sites. More importantly for the development of Anglo-Saxon barrow burials, the practice had been adopted by the Merovingian dynasty Franks, who lived in what is now France, from the mid fifth century CE. It was from these Merovingian Franks that the Anglo-Saxons likely adopted the practice.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon peoples had migrated to Britain during the fifth century CE, settling primarily along the eastern areas of what is now England. They were adherents of a pagan religion.\n\nThroughout the sixth century, the south-eastern Anglo-Saxon Kingdom of Kent developed political ties with the Merovingian kings in Francia, with their respective royal families eventually being sealed through a marriage alliance. It was through this connection that the Kentish Anglo-Saxons adopted the Merovingian practice of burying members of their social elite in large tumuli. The importance and influence of the Kentish kingdom across the south of England subsequently led to Anglo-Saxon peoples north of the river Thames also adopting the practice.\n\nVarious archaeologists and historians have discussed why the barrows were built by the Anglo-Saxons and for what purpose. Anglo-Saxon specialist Stephen Pollington noted that they were ways of creating \"a permanent mark on the landscape\" which allowed them to claim \"the territory and the right to hold it\".\n\nPollington also remarked that \"the burial chamber was an idealised portrayal of the 'house of the dead', the last resting place of the deceased into which they would welcome those who sought them out through spirit travel.\" Weston Wyly interpreted them as being symbolic of the pregnant belly of the earth, into which the corpse, representing the human seed, was planted.\n\nThe construction and burial within a burial mound would have been a lengthier process than ordinary Anglo-Saxon inhumation or cremation burials, with funerary rites and preparations having lasted for at least a week. The first step in a barrow burial would have been the removal of a circular area of topsoil, which was then encircled with a ditch where the soil had been dug even deeper. Archaeologist Martin Carver believed that this first stage had a symbolic significance in setting aside an inner and an outer zone between where the burial was going to be built and the outside world around it. The second step in the process involved a grave cut then being made into the ground, with enough space either for an inhumation burial or for an entire burial chamber to be constructed. In the case of some inhumation burials, a step or platform was cut into one of the ends of the grave so that mourners at the funeral could kneel down and arrange the corpse and their grave goods. In certain cases, the grave-cut, or at least its bottom, was sealed with clay prior to the body then being placed into it with their grave goods.\n\nWith the body then in the grave, a funerary service would have taken place, involving the performance of certain rituals and the eating of a graveside meal. A covering would then have been placed over the body, which was usually textile but in some cases was instead made up of hazel poles or stakes. In the case of chamber burials, it is at this point that the chamber that the body was in would have been sealed up with a wooden roof. At this point the grave would have been complete, and the next step would have been to build the earthen mound on top. Some of this would have come from the ring ditch surrounding the barrow, although other soil would have come from the surrounding area. It is possible that when the mound was finally constructed, a timber post would have been inserted into the top, marking the burial.\n\n"}
{"id": "7124441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7124441", "title": "Antiochus Nikator", "text": "Antiochus Nikator\n\nAntiochus I Nikator of Bactria (Greek: ; epithet means \"Victorious\") was possibly a Graeco-Bactrian king of the dynasty of Diodotus I, who ruled for some period between 240 - 220 BCE. His existence is controversial.\n\nSeveral Bactrian coins from the time of Diodotus I are struck with the legend \"\"Of King Antiochus\",\" though the portraits resemble those of Diodotos I and the reverse is the same as on other Diodotid coins: Zeus hurling a thunderbolt, with an eagle on the side.\n\nThese coins have often been interpreted as semi-independent issues of the first Bactrian king Diodotus I, who during the early stages of his liberation from the Seleucid empire used the name of his former overlord, the Seleucid king Antiochus II, but used his own portrait.\n\nHowever, another possibility would be that they were struck by a Bactrian king who himself was called Antiochos. This king might have been a brother or a younger son of Diodotos I, ruling either as a co-regent or after the death of the first Diodotos' successor and son Diodotus II. Numismatic and circumstantial evidence for this idea was published in 2010 by Jakobsson. The ancient sources are ambiguous: they mention no king between Diodotus II and Euthydemus I, but do not exclude the possibility.\n\nThe later Bactrian king Agathocles honoured earlier rulers of Bactria on commemorative coins. Some of these honour a king Antiochos similar to the aforementioned series. On these commemorative coins, Antiochos was given the epithet \"Nikator\" (Victor). Similar coins were issued for Diodotus I, at the same mints, but the portraits for Antiochus Nikator are never identical to those of Diodotus I. Even if the portraits were not lifelike, this may indicate that Nikator was a separate person, and that the coins are not merely reissues of coins with Diodotus' portrait in the name of Antiochus II.\nSince this epithet was never used by Antiochus II (who was called \"Theos\", (God)), nor by any other Seleucid king named Antiochus, might indicate that Antiochus Nikator was a distinct individual. However, given the practices surrounding the award of epithets to Hellenistic rulers, it may be that Agathocles gave this epithet to one of the various Antiochi in celebration of some victory.\n\nNo ancient sources mention him. Until further evidence appears, the question of his existence remains unresolved.\n"}
{"id": "51230956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51230956", "title": "Beacon Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Beacon Pharmaceuticals\n\nBeacon Pharmaceuticals Limited is a Bangladeshi pharmaceutical company that develops generic version of drug and commercializes therapeutics.\n\nBeacon manufactures more than 200 generic drugs and 65 oncology products. In each year, Beacon is introducing more than 15-20 Hi-Tech new products. Beacon is the first company in Bangladesh to start export of cancer drugs. The company is exporting its products in Asia, Africa and Latin America. After meeting the local demand, Beacon is exporting its medicine to many countries of Asia, Africa, Europe & Latin America. Beacon is public limited company listed in Dhaka & Chittagong stock exchange. About 2000 people are working in this company.;\n\nBeacon has introduced a number of global first generic.\n\nThe company's current commercially available products include Velpatasvir/sofosbuvir, Sofosbuvir/Daclatasvir, Osimertinib, Crizotinib, Daclatasvir, Sofosbuvir.\n"}
{"id": "56055824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56055824", "title": "Bernhard Abraham", "text": "Bernhard Abraham\n\nBernhard Abraham (1886 – ) was a German gymnast. He competed in the 1906 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "21645340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21645340", "title": "Briggera", "text": "Briggera\n\nBriggera is a genus of diatom known from the fossil record.\n\n"}
{"id": "1533308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533308", "title": "Bucky (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Bucky (Marvel Comics)\n\nBucky is the name used by several different fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, usually as a sidekick to Captain America. The original version was created by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby and first appeared in \"Captain America Comics\" #1 (cover-dated March 1941), which was published by Marvel's predecessor, Timely Comics. The name has been borne by five male characters, the original Bucky Barnes as well as Fred Davis, Jack Monroe, Rick Jones, Lemar Hoskins and two female ones Julia Winters and Rikki Barnes.\n\nJames Buchanan \"Bucky\" Barnes was the first individual to use the Bucky alias before being brought back from supposed death as the brain-washed assassin Winter Soldier and later assumed the role of Captain America when Steve Rogers was presumed to be dead.\n\nHaving trained under Steve Rogers (the original Captain America in World War II) and others in the time leading up to World War II, \"Bucky\" Barnes is a master of hand-to-hand combat and martial arts, as well as being skilled in the use of military weapons such as firearms and grenades. He also used throwing knives on occasion and was a gifted advance scout. His time as the covert Soviet agent known as the Winter Soldier helped to further hone his skills, making him the equal to his predecessor in combat skills, and an expert assassin and spy. He is also fluent in many languages, including English, Spanish, Portuguese, German, Russian, Latin, and Japanese. He can understand French.\n\nWinter Soldier's left arm is a cybernetic prosthetic with superhuman strength and enhanced reaction time. The arm can function when not in contact with Barnes and can discharge bolts of electrical energy from its palm. The arm can discharge an EMP causing electronics to either shut down or become useless. The use of Barnes' EMP is shown when Barnes uses it to shut down a Nick Fury LMD and when he attempts to use it on Iron Man. The arm has a holographic function to disguise it as a flesh and blood arm.\n\nAs Captain America, he possesses the original, indestructible, vibranium alloy shield used by his predecessor, as well as a Kevlar/Nomex blend, shock-absorbing costume. He often carries several conventional weapons such as knives, guns - mostly a Colt 1911-A1 .45 and a P08 Luger - and grenades.\n\nFred Davis Jr., created by Steve Englehart and Sal Buscema, first appeared in \"What If\" #4 (August 1977). He was the late-World War II and post-war depiction of Bucky.\n\nWithin the context of the stories, President Harry Truman feared the death of Captain America and Bucky, if revealed, would be a blow to morale. He asked William Naslund of the Crusaders to assume the Captain America identity. Naslund was assisted by Fred, a former bat-boy for the New York Yankees who had posed as Bucky in 1942. Captain America and Bucky finished the rest of the war and continued to fight crime with the All-Winners Squad. Naslund was killed in 1946, at which time the Captain America identity passed to Jeff Mace. Davis assisted Mace until he was shot and wounded in 1948, forcing him to retire with a permanent limp. \n\nIn 1951, Davis joined the secret V-Battalion organization that hunted war criminals, and eventually became one of its leaders. Later in his life, he was killed by a Russian sleeper agent who wanted to send a message to the original Bucky.\n\nAs Bucky, Davis was trained in hand-to-hand combat and acrobatics. He was also a baseball player.\n\nIn 1953, an orphan named Jack Monroe, who idolized Captain America and Bucky, discovered that his history teacher also had a similar passion, to the extent of undergoing plastic surgery to make him look like Steve Rogers and assuming his name as well. In addition, \"Rogers\" had discovered, in some old Nazi files stored in a warehouse in Germany, the lost formula for the Super-Soldier serum that had given Captain America his abilities. The two used the serum and began to fight Communists as Captain America and Bucky. Unfortunately, \"Rogers\" and Monroe were unaware of the stabilizing \"Vita-Ray\" process used on the original Captain America. As a result, despite their bodies being enhanced to peak human efficiency, they slowly grew paranoid and dangerously insane. By the middle of 1954 they were irrationally attacking anyone they perceived to be a Communist. In 1955 the Federal Bureau of Investigation managed to hunt them down and placed them in suspended animation. The 1950s Captain America and Bucky would be revived years later after the return of Steve Rogers, going on another rampage, and would be defeated by the man they had modeled themselves after. Monroe was eventually cured of his insanity and took up the superhero identity of Nomad, an identity that Rogers himself had once taken in the 1970s (when he discarded Cap's mantle as a consequence of the Marvel-version of the Watergate Scandal, engineered by the Secret Empire), even teaming up with the original Captain America on a number of occasions. At one point during his solo career, Monroe was injured severely enough to need to be placed in stasis once again. He was revived and brainwashed by Henry Peter Gyrich (who was in turn being manipulated by Baron Strucker). Monroe was then forced to become the new Scourge of the Underworld and sent to kill the reformed supervillain team known as the Thunderbolts. Monroe eventually broke free of the conditioning, helped the Thunderbolts to defeat Gyrich, and then disappeared. Monroe was last seen reassuming his original Nomad costume. At this time, he had checked in on his former ward he called Bucky, who had since been adopted. Monroe was starting to have delusions again, and started hallucinating; his sanity was again destabilizing, as it had when he first became Bucky. In the same story, Jack Monroe was shot by the Winter Soldier (James Buchanan Barnes, the original Bucky) and dumped in the trunk of a car.\n\nMonroe had augmented strength and reflexes superior to that of any Olympic athlete. Monroe has extensive experience in hand-to-hand combat, having received personal tutoring by Captain America. He is also an expert marksman.\n\nSoon after awakening in the modern age, Steve Rogers met Rick Jones. Jones donned the Bucky costume in an attempt to make himself Captain America's partner. However, Rogers was still wracked with guilt over the original Bucky's death, and refused to make this a permanent arrangement. While Jones' time in this identity is short lived and the task of measuring up to the original Bucky was daunting, he profited from it with invaluable training from Rogers.\n\nDuring his position as Bucky, Jones received training in combat gymnastics along with hand-to-hand combat by Captain America.\n\nAs the Super-Patriot, John Walker teamed up with a group known as the Bold Urban Commandos (BUCkies) as a backup team who were sometimes used in staged attacks on the Super-Patriot during his public demonstrations. Walker's main partner was African-American Lemar Hoskins who was allowed to continue to serve as Walker's partner when Walker became Captain America, while the other Buckies, disgruntled after being left out by the Commission on Superhuman Activities, became Left-Winger and Right-Winger. Hoskins used the name and costume of Bucky until he realized the racist connotations of the alias when applied to him (prior to the American Civil War, a male slave was often referred to as a \"buck\"). He then assumed the name \"Battlestar\".\n\nHoskins had superhuman strength, endurance, durability and resilience as a result of the experimental mutagenic process conducted on him by Karl Malus on behalf of the Power Broker. His agility and reflexes are of the order of a superior Olympic athlete. Hoskins is also highly trained in gymnastics and acrobatics. He is an exceptional hand-to-hand combatant, and received rigorous training in unarmed combat from the Commission on Superhuman Activities.\n\nRikki Barnes was from an alternate Earth created by Franklin Richards in the wake of the Onslaught incident. Rikki is still a member of the Young Allies on Counter-Earth. In the wake of the \"Onslaught Reborn\" series, another version of this character (from an alternate Heroes Reborn universe where the Avengers and Fantastic Four never left) has been transported to the mainstream Earth. She sought to make contact with the new Captain America (Bucky Barnes) by contacting Patriot, befriended the Patriot in the process. In a new miniseries she is assuming the Nomad identity.\n\nRikki is a natural athlete who was trained by S.H.I.E.L.D. and Captain America. She is a gifted fighter, marksman and acrobat with the familiarity with technological devices of a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent. As Bucky she wore a bulletproof costume modeled after the original Bucky. She also made use of a vibranium-photonic energy shield along with vibranium soled boots that allowed her to run up walls, move silently, leap greater distances and land from great heights. She also wielded a pistol.\n\nOther persons who have used the Bucky alias include a baby that Nomad looked after for a period (after which she was adopted and given the name Julia Winters).\n\nIn the DC Comics/Marvel Comics one-shot intercompany crossover \"Batman/Captain America\" (Dec. 1996), written and drawn by John Byrne and set during World War II, Bucky briefly takes Dick Grayson/Robin's place as Batman's sidekick, while Robin becomes Captain America's sidekick. In this alternate reality (set in one of DC Comics' numerous \"Elseworlds\" continuities), Bucky dies (off-page) as he had done in numerous \"Avengers\" and \"Captain America\" recollections.\n\nIn the alternate reality of the five-issue \"Bullet Points\" miniseries (Jan.-May 2005), James Barnes never teams up with Steve Rogers as the Super-Soldier program was never activated. However, Rogers volunteers for the 'Iron Man' program and as such, saves Barnes and several fellow soldiers from an advancing tank during the battle of Guadalcanal. Unfortunately he is not swift enough to save Barnes from severe damage to his legs.\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the 2005 \"House of M\" storyline, James Buchanan Barnes is one of the United States government agents (alongside Mimic and Nuke) sent to Genosha to kill Magneto and as many of his followers as possible. Nuke and Mimic served as a distraction while Agent Barnes sneaked into Magneto's headquarters; and though he fatally stabs Professor Xavier, Bucky was killed by Magneto.\n\nIn the second issue of the crossover miniseries \"Marvel Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness\", a zombified Winter Soldier appears and attempts to devour Dazzler. This version of the Winter Soldier is ultimately killed by Ash Williams, who shoots his head off with his \"boomstick\", even having shot off his bionic arm.\n\nThe alternate reality Ultimate Marvel version of Bucky Barnes is an adult sidekick of Captain America (Steve Rogers). This version is Steve Rogers' childhood friend who accompanies on missions as an Army press photographer. Surviving the war and believing Captain America's death, Bucky eventually marries Gail Richards and has a large extended family. During which, Bucky is diagnosed as having lung cancer from chain smoking back in the War. Barnes and Gail both live to see Steve's revival in the 21st century and renews their friendship. After America was taken by the Liberators, Bucky is captured at a cemetery with Steve and remains unseen. However, both he and Gail are seen being taken into S.H.I.E.L.D. protective custody after it is discovered that the Red Skull is Steve's and Gail's illegitimate son.\n\nIn the alternate reality Marvel MAX series \"U.S. War Machine\", Bucky was serving in the present as Captain America, as the Captain had died in his stead in World War II. Bucky was accompanied here by two assistants, Hawkeye and Falcon, neither wearing a costume and both addressed by their real names.\n\nIn the 2005 \"What If?\" event, the Captain America story, set during the American Civil War, featured Steve Rogers' commanding officer, Colonel Buck Barnes, whom the men called \"Bucky\". His mercenary tendencies led to Rogers' desertion, and when he later intervened in Rogers' transformation into Captain America, his face was destroyed, turning him into an undead being known as the White Skull.\n\nIn \"Ruins\", which is set in a dystopian alternate future, Bucky is taken into custody alongside Victor Creed and others for several heinous crimes, including cannibalism.\n\nAn alternate-universe Bucky appears in the 2011 miniseries \"Captain America Corps\".\n\nA new Bucky named Steve Wilson-Bradley appears in an alternate timeline seen in \"\". This Bucky is the son of Elijah Bradley and Samantha Wilson (the daughter of the Falcon).\n\nIn a world where all the Marvel characters are small children depicted in \"A-Babies vs. X-Babies\", Bucky is Steve's teddy bear, named Bucky Bear. He is stolen by Scott Summers, igniting an enormous battle between the baby Avengers and the baby X-Men.\n\nThe teenaged Bucky appears as a member of the Battleworld Runaways during the 2015 \"Secret Wars\" storyline.\n\n"}
{"id": "41799997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41799997", "title": "Cecil Blackbeard", "text": "Cecil Blackbeard\n\nCecil Roberts Blackbeard (1900 – 19 April 1954), was a South African male tennis player who represented South Africa in the Davis Cup and the Olympic Games. He competed in the doubles event at the 1920 Summer Olympics. With compatriot George Dodd he reached the quarterfinal round after victories over Alfred Beamish and Francis Lowe in the first round, followed by a win over Jean-Pierre Samazeuilh and Daniel Lawton in the second. In the quarterfinal they were defeated in four sets by Max Decugis and Pierre Albarran.\n\nBlackbeard participated in the 1920 Wimbledon Championships playing in all three events (singles, doubles, mixed). In the singles event he made it to the quarterfinal round after victories over Yasin Mohamed, Ambrose Dudley, his doubles partner George Dodd and Frank Jarvis. In the quarterfinal he lost in four sets to Chuck Garland. With countryman George Dodd he also reached the quarterfinal of the doubles event in which Algernon Kingscote and Cecil Parke proved too strong. He was less successful in the mixed doubles, reaching the second round with D.K. Betty. \n\nIn May 1920, he reached the final of the doubles event at the World Hard Court Championships, played at the Stade Français in Paris. With his teammate Nicolae Mişu they were defeated in the final by the French pair André Gobert and William Laurentz in straight sets. \n\nIn 1926, Blackbeard reached the final of the singles event at the South African Championships which he lost in three straight sets to countryman Jack Condon. At the same championships he won the doubles title in 1923 with his brother, D. Blackbeard, and in 1926 with Charles Winslow.\n\n"}
{"id": "15354795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15354795", "title": "Cellular senescence", "text": "Cellular senescence\n\nCellular senescence is one phenomenon by which normal cells cease to divide. In their seminal experiments from the early 1960's, Leonard Hayflick and Paul Moorhead found out that normal human fetal fibroblasts in culture reach a maximum of approximately 50 cell population doublings before becoming senescent. This phenomenon is known as \"replicative senescence\", or the Hayflick limit. Hayflick's discovery that normal cells are mortal overturned a 60-year-old dogma in cell biology that maintained that all cultured cells are immortal. Hayflick found that the only immortal cultured cells are cancer cells.\n\nMechanistically, replicative senescence is triggered by a DNA damage response which results from the shortening of telomeres during each cellular division process. Cells can also be induced to senesce independent of the number of cellular divisions via DNA damage in response to elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS), activation of oncogenes and cell-cell fusion. The number of senescent cells in tissues rises substantially during normal aging.\n\nAlthough senescent cells can no longer replicate, they remain metabolically active and commonly adopt an immunogenic phenotype consisting of a pro-inflammatory secretome, the up-regulation of immune ligands, a pro-survival response, promiscuous gene expression (pGE) and stain positive for senescence-associated β-galactosidase activity. Senescence-associated beta-galactosidase, along with p16, is regarded to be a biomarker of cellular senescence. This results in false positives for maturing tissue macrophages and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase as well as for T-cells p16.\n\nThe DNA damage response (DDR) arrests cell cycle progression until damages, such as double-strand breaks (DSBs), are repaired. Senescent cells display persistent DDR foci that appear to be resistant to endogenous DNA repair activities. Such senescent cells in culture and tissues from aged mammals retain true DSBs associated with DDR markers. It has been proposed that retained DSBs are major drivers of the aging process (see DNA damage theory of aging).\n\nLately, the role of telomeres in cellular senescence has aroused general interest, especially with a view to the possible genetically adverse effects of cloning. The successive shortening of the chromosomal telomeres with each cell cycle is also believed to limit the number of divisions of the cell, thus contributing to aging. There have, on the other hand, also been reports that cloning could alter the shortening of telomeres. Some cells do not age and are, therefore, described as being \"biologically immortal\". It is theorized by some that when it is discovered exactly what allows these cells, whether it be the result of telomere lengthening or not, to divide without limit that it will be possible to genetically alter other cells to have the same capability. \n\nThe length of the telomere strand has senescent effects; telomere shortening activates extensive alterations in alternative RNA splicing that produce senescent toxins such as progerin, which degrades the tissue and makes it more prone to failure.\n\nA Senescence Associated Secretory Phenotype (SASP) consisting of inflammatory cytokines, growth factors, and proteases is another characteristic feature of senescent cells. SASP is associated with many age-related diseases, including type 2 diabetes and atherosclerosis. This has motivated researchers to develop senolytic drugs to kill and/or eliminate senescent cells in an effort to improve health in the elderly. Whether or not this approach will prove effective is debatable.\n\nThe nucleus of senescent cells is characterized by senescence-associated heterochromatin foci (SAHF) and DNA segments with chromatin alterations reinforcing senescence (DNA-SCARS). Senescent cells affect tumour suppression, wound healing and possibly embryonic/placental development, and play a pathological role in age-related diseases.\n\nCellular senescence is not observed in some organisms, including perennial plants, sponges, corals, and lobsters. In those species where cellular senescence is observed, cells eventually become post-mitotic when they can no longer replicate themselves through the process of cellular mitosis; i.e., cells experience \"replicative senescence\". How and why some cells become post-mitotic in some species has been the subject of much research and speculation, but it has been suggested that cellular senescence evolved as a way to prevent the onset and spread of cancer. Somatic cells that have divided many times will have accumulated DNA mutations and would therefore be in danger of becoming cancerous if cell division continued. As such, it is becoming apparent that senescent cells undergo conversion to an immunogenic phenotype that enables them to be eliminated by the immune system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5132207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5132207", "title": "Chingiz Mustafayev", "text": "Chingiz Mustafayev\n\nChingiz Mustafayev (; August 29, 1960 – June 15, 1992) was one of the most notable independent Azerbaijani journalists, who was posthumously bestowed by state order as National Hero of Azerbaijan. Mustafayev, with no formal background or degree in journalism save for a year of on the job training, created a video anthology during the early stages of the Nagorno-Karabakh War, most of the documentary had to be shot from the frontline which ultimately was the cause of his abrupt death due to mortar wounds.\n\nHe was the man behind the video camera, who filmed scenes of atrocity in the Khojaly Massacre of 1992. In order to document the massacre, Mustafayev traveled via an army helicopter which at most time came under heavy enemy fire. He was able to film that which gave evidence to the massacre which showed hundreds of dead bodies strewn across snow-covered fields of Khojaly. The film at times were coupled with commentaries by a sobbing and emotional Mustafayev as he described the carnage he had seen as he filmed.\n\nAzerbaijani's official press tried to cover up the fact that the town had been wiped out by Armenian forces. Human Rights Watch and the Russian Memorial society attributed the carnage to Armenian forces.\n\nAccording to his brother Vahid Mustafayev, during the span of eight months Mustafayev had shot and is credited for about 18 documentaries about the war in Karabakh, leaving behind substantial historical documentation.\n\nOn 15 June 1992, Mustafayev while filming an exchange of fire between Azerbaijani and Armenian forces near the village of Nakhichevanik was felled by mortar fire According to his brother Vahid Mustafayev, he was fatally wounded when a shell exploded right beside him and shrapnel from the shell severed one of his major arteries. By the time Mustafayev was airlifted to the hospital, he had died of blood loss. His last moments were captured on his own camera.\n\nANS CM 102 FM the first Radio Broadcasting Company in the Caucasus whose motto was \"We are fated to struggle\" has renamed the station in his honor.\n\nA foundation was established in honour of Chingiz Mustafayev by ANS for the purposes of arranging journalism contests in various areas. Azerbaijani radio station ANS CM 102 FM also renamed after him and carries his slogan \"Döyüş alnımıza yazılıb\" (The war is written on our foreheads).\n\nThe Mustafayev family is described as the typical Azerbaijani family. His father was in the military and was working on missiles and rockets in the USSR. His mother hailed from the city of Shaki; Married when she was 19, Chingiz was the oldest child, born in 1960 and he had two brothers, Seyfulla Mustafayev, born in 1962, and Vahid Mustafayev, born in 1968.\n\n\n (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BSMmA4eq5\n\n"}
{"id": "246471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246471", "title": "Crab-eating macaque", "text": "Crab-eating macaque\n\nThe crab-eating macaque (\"Macaca fascicularis\"), also known as the long-tailed macaque, is a cercopithecine primate native to Southeast Asia. It is referred to as the cynomolgus monkey in laboratories. It has a long history alongside humans; they have been alternately seen as agricultural pests, sacred animals in some temples, and more recently, the subject of medical experiments. The crab-eating macaque lives in matrilineal social groups with a female dominance hierarchy, and male members leave the group when they reach puberty. They are opportunistic omnivores and have been documented using tools to obtain food in Thailand and Myanmar. The crab-eating macaque is a known invasive species and a threat to biodiversity in several locations, including Hong Kong and western New Guinea. The significant overlap in macaque and human living space has resulted in greater habitat loss, synanthropic living, and inter- and intraspecies conflicts over resources.\n\n\"Macaca\" comes from the Portuguese word \"macaco\", which was derived from \"makaku\", a Fiot (West African language) word (\"kaku\" means monkey in Fiot). The specific epithet \"fascicularis\" is Latin for a small band or stripe. Sir Thomas Raffles, who gave the animal its scientific name in 1821, did not specify what he meant by the use of this word.\n\nIn Indonesia and Malaysia, \"M. fascicularis\" and other macaque species are known generically as \"kera\", possibly because of their high-pitched cries.\n\nThe crab-eating macaque has several common names. It is often referred to as the long-tailed macaque due to its tail, which is often longer than its body. The name crab-eating macaque refers to its being often seen foraging beaches for crabs. Another common name for \"M. fascicularis\" is the cynomolgus monkey, from the name of a race of humans with long hair and handsome beards who used dogs for hunting according to Aristophanes of Byzantium, who seemingly derived the etymology of the word \"cynomolgus\" from the Greek κύων, cyon: dog (Gen. cyno-s) and the verb ἀμέλγειν, amelgein: to milk (Adj. amolg-os), by claiming that they milked female dogs. This name is commonly used in laboratory settings.\n\nIn Thailand, the species is called \"ลิงแสม\" (\"Ling s̄æm\"; lit: \"Mangrove monkeys\") because it lives and forages in mangrove forests.\n\nThe 10 subspecies of \"M. fascicularis\" are:\n\nThe body length of the adult, which varies among subspecies, is with relatively short arms and legs. Males are considerably larger than females, weighing compared to the of females. The tail is longer than the body, typically , which is used for balance when they jump distances up to . The upper parts of the body are dark brown with light golden brown tips. The under parts are light grey with a dark grey/brown tail. Crab-eating macaques have backwards-directed crown hairs which sometimes form short crests on the midline. Their skin is black on their feet and ears, whereas the skin on the muzzle is a light grayish pink color. The eyelids often have prominent white markings and sometimes there are white spots on the ears. Males have a characteristic mustache and cheek whiskers, while females have only cheek whiskers. Crab-eating macaques have a cheek pouch which they use to store food while foraging. Females show no perineal swelling.\n\nMacaques live in social groups that contain three to 20 females, their offspring, and one or many males. The groups usually have fewer males than females. In social groups of macaques, a clear dominance hierarchy is seen among females. These ranks remain stable throughout the female’s lifetime and also can be sustained through generations of matrilines. Females have their highest birth rates around 10 years of age and completely stop bearing young by age 24.\n\nThe social groups of macaques are female-bonded, meaning the males will disperse at the time of puberty. Thus, group relatedness on average appears to be lower than compared to matrilines. More difference in relatedness occurs when comparing high-ranking lineages to lower ranking lineages, with higher-ranking individuals being more closely related to one another. Additionally, groups of dispersing males born into the same social groups display a range of relatedness, at times appearing to be brothers, while at other times appearing to be unrelated.\n\nIn addition to the matrilineal dominance hierarchy, male dominance rankings also exist. Alpha males have a higher frequency of mating compared to their lower-ranking conspecifics. The increased success is due partially to his increased access to females and also due to female preference of an alpha male during periods of maximum fertility. Though females have a preference for alpha males, they do display promiscuous behavior. Through this behavior, females risk helping to rear a nonalpha offspring, yet benefit in two specific ways, both in regard to aggressive behavior. First, a decreased value is placed on one single copulation. Moreover, the risk of infanticide is decreased due to the uncertainty of paternity.\n\nIncreasing group size leads to increased competition and energy spent trying to forage for resources, and in particular, food. Further, social tensions build and the prevalence of tension-reducing interactions like social grooming fall with larger groups. Thus, group living appears to be maintained solely due to the safety against predation.\n\nGroup living in all species is dependent on tolerance of other group members. In crab-eating macaques, successful social group living maintains postconflict resolution must occur. Usually, less dominant individuals lose to a higher-ranking individual when conflict arises. After the conflict has taken place, lower-ranking individuals tend to fear the winner of the conflict to a greater degree. In one study, this was seen by the ability to drink water together. Postconflict observations showed a staggered time between when the dominant individual begins to drink and the subordinate. Long-term studies reveal the gap in drinking time closes as the conflict moves further into the past.\n\nGrooming and support in conflict among primates is considered to be an act of reciprocal altruism. In crab-eating macaques, an experiment was performed in which individuals were given the opportunity to groom one another under three conditions: after being groomed by the other, after grooming the other, and without prior grooming. After a grooming took place, the individual that received the grooming was much more likely to support its groomer than one that had not previously groomed that individual. These results support the reciprocal altruism theory of grooming in long-tailed macaques.\n\nCrab-eating macaques demonstrate two of the three forms of suggested postconflict behavior. In both captive and wild studies, the monkeys demonstrated reconciliation, or an affiliative interaction between former opponents, and redirection, or acting aggressively towards a third individual. Consolation was not seen in any study performed.\n\nPostconflict anxiety has been reported in crab-eating macaques that have acted as the aggressor. After a conflict within a group, the aggressor appears to scratch itself at a higher rate than before the conflict. Though the scratching behavior cannot definitely be termed as an anxious behavior, evidence suggests this is the case. An aggressor’s scratching decreases significantly after reconciliation. This suggests reconciliation rather than a property of the conflict is the cause of reduction in scratching behavior. Though these results seem counterintuitive, the anxiety of the aggressor appears to have a basis in the risks of ruining cooperative relationships with the opponent.\n\nIn a study, a group of crab-eating macaques was given ownership of a food object. Unsurprisingly, adult females favored their own offspring by passively, yet preferentially, allowing them to feed on the objects they held. When juveniles were in possession of an object, mothers robbed them and acted aggressively at an increased rate towards their own offspring compared to other juveniles. These observations suggest close proximity influences behavior in ownership, as a mother’s kin are closer to her on average. When given a nonfood object and two owners, one being a kin and one not, the rival will choose the older individual to attack regardless of kinship. Though the hypothesis remains that mother-juvenile relationships may facilitate social learning of ownership, the combined results clearly point to aggression towards the least-threatening individual.\n\nA study was conducted in which food was given to 11 females. They were then given a choice to share the food with kin or nonkin. The kin altruism hypothesis suggests the mothers would preferentially give food to their own offspring. Yet eight of the 11 females did not discriminate between kin and nonkin. The remaining three did, in fact, give more food to their kin. The results suggest it was not kin selection, but instead spite that fueled feeding kin preferentially. This is due to the observation that food was given to kin for a significantly longer period of time than needed. The benefit to the mother is decreased due to less food availability for herself and the cost remains great for nonkin due to not receiving food. If these results are correct, crab-eating macaques are unique in the animal kingdom, as they appear not only to behave according to the kin selection theory, but also act spiteful toward one another.\n\nAfter a gestation period of 162–193 days, the female gives birth to one infant. The infant's weight at birth is about . Infants are born with black fur which will begin to turn to a yellow-green, grey-green, or reddish-brown shade (depending on the subspecies) after about three months of age. This natal coat may indicate to others the status of the infant, and other group members treat infants with care and rush to their defense when distressed. Immigrant males sometimes kill infants not their own, and high-ranking females sometimes kidnap the infants of lower-ranking females. These kidnappings usually result in the death of the infants, as the other female is usually not lactating. A young juvenile stays mainly with its mother and relatives. As male juveniles get older, they become more peripheral to the group. Here they play together, forming crucial bonds that may help them when they leave their natal group. Males that emigrate with a partner are more successful than those that leave alone. Young females, though, stay with the group and become incorporated into the matriline into which they were born.\n\nMale crab-eating macaques groom females to increase the chance of mating. A female is more likely to engage in sexual activity with a male that has recently groomed her than with one that has not.\n\nDespite their name, crab-eating macaques typically do not consume crabs as their main food source; rather, they are opportunistic omnivores, eating a variety of animals and plants. Although fruits and seeds make up 60 - 90% of their diet, they also eat leaves, flowers, roots, and bark. They sometimes prey on vertebrates (including bird chicks, nesting female birds, lizards, frogs, and fish), invertebrates, and bird eggs. In Indonesia, the species has become a proficient swimmer and diver for crabs and other crustaceans in mangrove swamps. A study in Bukit Timah, Singapore recorded a diet consisting of 44% fruit, 27% animal matter, 15% flowers and other plant matter, and 14% food provided by humans.\n\nThis species exhibits particularly low tolerance for swallowing seeds. Despite their inability to digest seeds, many primates of similar size swallow large seeds, up to , and simply defecate them whole. The crab-eating macaque, though, spits seeds out if they are larger than . This decision to spit seeds is thought to be adaptive; it avoids filling the monkey’s stomach with wasteful bulky seeds that cannot be used for energy. It also can help the plants by distributing seeds to new areas: Crab-eating macaques eat durians such as \"Durio graveolens\" and \"D. zibethinus\", and are a major seed disperor for the latter species.\n\nAlthough the species is ecologically well-adapted and poses no threat to population stability of prey species in its native range, in areas where the crab-eating macaque is not native, it can pose a substantial threat to biodiversity. Some believe the crab-eating macaque is responsible for the extinction of forest birds by threatening critical breeding areas as well as eating the eggs and chicks of endangered forest birds.\n\nThe crab-eating macaque can become a synanthrope, living off human resources. They are known to feed in cultivated fields on young dry rice, cassava leaves, rubber fruit, taro plants, coconuts, mangos, and other crops, often causing significant losses to local farmers. In villages, towns, and cities, they frequently take food from garbage cans and refuse piles. The species can become unafraid of humans in these conditions, which can lead to macaques directly taking food from people, both passively and aggressively.\n\nIn Thailand and Myanmar, crab-eating macaques use stone tools to open nuts, oysters and other bivalves, and various types of sea snails (nerites, muricids, trochids, etc.) along the Andaman sea coast and offshore islands.\n\nAnother instance of tool use is washing and rubbing foods such as sweet potatoes, cassava roots, and papaya leaves before consumption. Crab-eating macaques either soak these foods in water or rub them through their hands as if to clean them. They also peel the sweet potatoes, using their incisors and canine teeth. Adolescents appear to acquire these behaviors by observational learning of older individuals.\n\nThe crab-eating macaque lives in a wide variety of habitats, including primary lowland rainforests, disturbed and secondary rainforests, shrubland, and riverine and coastal forests of nipa palm and mangrove. They also easily adjust to human settlements; they are considered sacred at some Hindu temples and on some small islands, but are pests around farms and villages. Typically, they prefer disturbed habitats and forest periphery. The native range of this species includes most of mainland Southeast Asia, from extreme southeastern Bangladesh south through Malaysia, and the Maritime Southeast Asia islands of Sumatra, Java, and Borneo, offshore islands, the islands of the Philippines, and the Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal. This primate is a rare example of a terrestrial mammal that violates the Wallace line.\n\n\"M. fascicularis\" is an introduced alien species in several locations, including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Irian Jaya, Papua New Guinea, New Britain, New Ireland, New Caledonia, Solomon Islands, Fiji, Tonga, Samoa, Nauru, Vanuatu, Pohnpei, Anggaur Island in Palau, and Mauritius. Where it is not a native species, particularly on island ecosystems whose species often evolved in isolation from large predators, \"M. fascicularis\" is a documented threat to many native species. This has led the World Conservation Union (IUCN) to list \"M. fascicularis\" as one of the \"100 worst invasive alien species\". \"M. fascicularis\" is not a threat to biodiversity in its native range.\n\nThe immunovaccine porcine zona pellucida (PZP), which causes infertility in females, is currently being tested in Hong Kong to investigate its use as potential population control.\n\nCrab-eating macaques extensively overlap with humans across their range in Southeast Asia. Consequently, they live together in many locations. Some of these areas are associated with religious sites and local customs, such as the temples of Bali in Indonesia, Thailand, and Cambodia, while other areas are characterized by conflict as a result of habitat loss and competition over food and space. Humans and crab-eating macaques have shared environments since prehistoric times, and both tend to frequent forest and river edge habitats. Crab-eating macaques are occasionally used as a food source for some indigenous forest-dwelling peoples. In Mauritius, they are captured and sold to the pharmaceutical industry, and in Angaur and Palau, they are sold as pets. Macaques feed on sugarcane and other crops, affecting agriculture and livelihoods, and can be aggressive towards humans. Macaques may carry potentially fatal human diseases, including herpes B virus.\n\n\"M. fascicularis\" is also used extensively in medical experiments, in particular those connected with neuroscience and disease. Due to their close physiology, they can share infections with humans. Some cases of concern have been an isolated event of \"Reston ebolavirus\" found in a captive-bred population shipped to the US from the Philippines, which was later found to be a strain of Ebola that has no known pathological consequences in humans, unlike the African strains. Furthermore, they are a known carrier of monkey B virus (\"Herpesvirus simiae\"), a virus which has produced disease in some lab workers working mainly with rhesus macaques (\"M. mulatta\"). Nafovanny, the largest facility for the captive breeding of nonhuman primates in the world, houses 30,000 macaques . The crab-eating macaque is one of the species used as space test flight animals. \"Plasmodium knowlesi\", which causes malaria in \"M. fascicularis\", can also infect humans. A few cases have been documented in humans, but for how long humans have been getting infections of this malarial strain is unknown. It is, therefore, not possible to assess if this is a newly emerging health threat, or if just newly discovered due to improved malarial detection techniques. Given the long history of humans and macaques living together in Southeast Asia, it is likely the latter.\n\nThe use of crab-eating macaques and other nonhuman primates in experimentation is controversial with critics charging that the experiments are cruel, unnecessary and lead to dubious findings. One of the most well known examples of experiments on crab-eating macaques is the 1981 Silver Spring monkeys case.\n\nIn 2014, 21,768 crab-eating macaques were imported in the United States to be used in experimentation.\n\nThe crab-eating macaque has the third-largest range of any primate species, behind only humans and rhesus macaques. The IUCN Red List categorizes the species as Least Concern, and CITES lists them as Appendix II (\"not necessarily threatened with extinction\", in which trade must be controlled to avoid use incompatible with their survival). A recent review of their populations suggests a need for better monitoring of populations due to increased wild trade and rising levels of human-macaque conflict, which are reducing overall population levels despite the species being widely distributed.\n\nEach subspecies faces differing levels of threats, and too little information is available on some subspecies to assess their conditions. The \"M. f. umbrosa\" subspecies is likely of important biological significance and has been recommended as a candidate for protection in the Nicobar Islands, where its small, native population has been seriously fragmented, and is listed as vulnerable on the IUCN Red List. The Philippine long-tailed macaque (\"M. f. philippensis\") is listed as near threatened, and \"M. f. condorensis\" is vulnerable. All other subspecies are listed as data deficient and need further study; although recent work is showing \"M. f. aurea\" and \"M. f. karimondjawae\" need increased protection. One concern for conservation is, in areas where \"M. fascicularis\" is not native, their populations need to be monitored and managed to reduce their impact on native flora and fauna.\n\nThe genome of the crab-eating macaque has been sequenced.\n\nOn 24 January 2018, scientists in China reported in the journal \"Cell\" the creation of two crab-eating macaque clones, named \"Zhong Zhong and Hua Hua\", using the complex DNA transfer method that produced \"Dolly\" the sheep. This makes Zhong Zhong and Hua Hua the first primates to be cloned using the somatic cell nuclear transfer method.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1130867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1130867", "title": "Emasculation", "text": "Emasculation\n\nEmasculation of a human male is to deprive (a man) of his male role or identity.\n\nThe word also has other meanings which are more commonly used. See below.\n\nIn Medieval Europe, emasculation was used as a form of punishment. It was sometimes done when a person was hanged, drawn, and quartered (a form of execution by torture).\n\nIn ancient China, emasculation was performed as a punishment up until the Sui Dynasty and Tang Dynasty. Additionally, some men underwent the procedure as means of becoming employed as an imperial servant or bureaucrat. In English, the word eunuch is generally used to refer to these Chinese people who underwent emasculation, and they are often referred to as having been \"castrated\" rather than \"emasculated\". As of the Qing Dynasty, emasculation was still performed in China. In the 19th century, the rebel Yaqub Beg and all of his sons and grandsons were punished by being emasculated and enslaved. The last Imperial eunuch was Sun Yaoting, who died in 1996. For more information on emasculation in China, see Castration#China.\n\nThe ancient Vietnamese adopted China's practice of emasculation and the use of eunuchs as servants and slaves for the monarchy. The procedure was reportedly very painful as both the testicles and penis were removed. In 1838, the Emperor of Vietnam made a law that said only adult men of high social standing could be emasculated. In the end, most eunuchs ended up being men who had been born with genital abnormalities and then handed over to the authorities. During the late 19th century, the French used the existence of eunuchs in Vietnam to degrade the Vietnamese. For more information on emasculation in Vietnam, see Castration#Vietnam.\n\nThe Khitan people of northeast Asia adopted the Chinese practice of emasculating slaves.\n\nIn 19th century Russia, the Skoptsy sect of Christianity performed emasculation, which they termed the \"greater seal\".\n\nIn the Arab slave trade, enslaved men and boys from East Africa were often \"castrated\" by removing both the penis and testicles.\n\nIn The Indian Subcontinent, some members of Hijra communities reportedly undergo emasculation. It is called \"nirwaan\" and seen as a rite of passage.\n\nIn the United States, males in the Nullo subculture voluntarily undergo emasculation.\n\nIn the Old Testament:\n\n\"“No one whose testicles are crushed or whose male organ is cut off shall enter the assembly of the LORD.\"\n\nBy extension, the word \"emasculation\" has also come to mean rendering a male less masculine, including by humiliation. It can also mean to deprive anything of vigour or effectiveness. This figurative usage has become more common than the literal meaning. For example: \"William Lewis Hughes voted for Folkestone’s amendment to Curwen’s emasculated reform bill, 12 June 1809...\"\n\nIn horticulture, the removal of male (pollen) parts of a plant, largely for controlled pollination and breeding purposes, is also called emasculation.\n\n"}
{"id": "56666259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56666259", "title": "Evelyn Bogle", "text": "Evelyn Bogle\n\nEvelyn Bogle is a former Jamaican cricketer. She made her Women's One Day International debut during the 1973 Women's Cricket World Cup against Young England in a group stage match where fellow Jamaican players Leila Williams, Madge Stewart, Dorrett Davis, L McIntosh, Elaine Emmanual and Yvonne Oldfield also made their maiden international appearance in the inaugural Women's Cricket World Cup.\n"}
{"id": "58229836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58229836", "title": "F International", "text": "F International\n\nF International was a British freelance software and systems services company, founded as Freelance Programmers in England in 1962, by Dame Stephanie Shirley; she was involved in the company until she retired in 1993. The company was renamed in 1974 to F International. In 1988 the company was renamed again, to The FI Group, and later as Xansa plc. Xansa plc was acquired by the French company now known as Sopra Steria in 2007.\n\nF International was founded in 1962 when successful female entrepreneurs and freelance working were rare. Steve Shirley started the company despite having no capital or business experience, to escape the constraints of working as a woman in a predominantly male working context:\n\nThe total revenues for the first 10-month tax year were £1,700.\n\nThe Cranfield School of Management undertook a study of the reported differences between male and female entrepreneurs in the late 1980s, concluding that because of the differences in context and background for men and women, the principal factor for successful women entrepreneurs was the nature of market entry. F International is an early example: business and industry were short of computer-skilled people, and the nature of much software and systems work was, even at that time, amenable to homeworking. \n\nThe company, then known as \"Freelance Programmers\", was registered on 13 May 1964 and a \"panel\" of freelance software and systems specialists, almost exclusively female, began to work for the company. An early assignment came from Urwick Diebold and this attracted attention from the media. The early days were difficult; at one point Kit Grindley, a recent acquaintance at Urwick Diebold, wrote Steve a cheque for £500 to cover operating costs and payments to the workforce. Once over the early cash flow problems the business began to grow. By 1966, there were about 75 regular freelance workers on the panel, some of whom became significant role players as technical experts and project managers. Seriously problematic projects were rare, but one in particular, with Castrol, forced the management team to focus on quality management. Quality management became one of the foundations of the operating model for the company.\n\nAt the start, in the 1960s, there were no accessible data communications services and no Internet, but in the 1970s the business attracted interest from academics and futurists as an example of what became known as teleworking or telecommuting. The Harvard Business School documented the F International business in a number of case studies. The business was the subject of several other international academic studies of homeworking. \n\nIn the 1970s the company's development paralleled the emergence of feminist thinking and the consequent awareness and pre-occupation with gender equality; together these led to legislation in the United Kingdom that was intended to bring equal rights to women but had unexpected consequences; F International was specifically offering employment \"to women\", and therefore they had to adjust their policies to be \"gender-independent\".\n\nDespite these issues, the business continued to grow until the 1970s, when it encountered difficulties for at least two reasons: the business reported its first financial loss (of £3,815) and suffered its first significant personnel loss, when Pamela Woodman resigned to form Pamela Woodman Associates, working in direct competition to Freelance Programmers. However, by the end of the decade, revenue had risen to £2.5m and there was a partnership with Heights Information Technology Services Inc in the USA, F International ApS in Copenhagen, servicing Scandinavia, and F International BV in Amsterdam, servicing the Benelux countries; At home, still in the 1970s, spin-off businesses were re-absorbed into the parent business which was re-established in 1974 as \"F International\".\n\nBy 1980 the business had developed country-wide coverage with more than 600 staff. The administrative headquarters for the UK were then based in Chesham, Buckinghamshire, where the original organisation, Freelance Programmers had been founded. \n\nF International was a founder member of the Computing Services Association, and was active in the British Computer Society and the Institute for Data Processing Management (IDPM) It was in the early 1980s that a wider general interest in home working with telecommunications support became evident, a phenomenon that later known as teleworking or telecommuting.\n\nKey dates in the 1980s-1990s include:\n\nAs the 1990s opened, the company made several strategic acquisitions, for example AMP Computer Recruitment in 1990 and the Kernel Group in 1991, with the objective of providing clients with staffing and training services. In 1997, IIS Infotech Limited, an Indian computer services company based in New Delhi was acquired, joined in 1999 by a small London-based project management and IT consultancy group and in 2000 by Druid, a Reading-based software consultancy.\n\nIn March 2001, now a substantial and international business with over 6,000 employees, a market capitalisation of £1.2bn and projected sales for the coming year of £515m, the company announced that it was going to change its name to Xansa plc.\n\nThe founding idea at F International was to provide meaningful home-based employment for young mothers with software skills, and later (when challenged by the legislation on sex discrimination) for “people with dependents unable to work in a conventional environment\". \n\nAlthough for the first decade the F International workforce communicated successfully on a daily basis, using the United Kingdom overnight first class mail service, home working became increasingly interesting and increasingly accepted as telecommunications services became available. The F International story attracted extensive public and professional interest, for example in Tomorrow%27s World (a long-running BBC science and technology programme), and books by Ralf Dahrendorf, Alvin Toffler, Michel Syrett, and Francis Kinsman. Steve herself continued to write and speak about the business model and the benefits for the workforce.\n\nIn his book \"The Third Wave\" Alvin Toffler included a Chapter on \"The Electronic Cottage\" wherein he quotes from a 1971 report by the Institute for the Future suggesting a range of occupations that could be undertaken from home, and mentioning F International as one example. Toffler wrote (quoting from the IFF report):\n\nIn a book concerning adapting to change in the world of work (and surviving) Michel Syrett summarised some of the particulars of working with F International: \n\nMore recently Steve Shirley has observed that the F International way of working presaged many features of the gig economy: flexibility, variable remuneration for different modes of working, and a high level of self-reliance. Comments from Ralf Dahrendorf (in a television programme marking his retirement from the London School of Economics) support this idea. When he addressed the question: 'Has Britain got a future?', he said: \n\nAs well as a Quality Manual there were ten other management manuals dealing with: quality policy, project management, estimating, and technical standards for general work, consulting work, systems design, software documentation, software testing and configuration management. The commitment gained from individuals who took direct responsibility for their own work, working by themselves at home, led to significant productivity gains of more than 40% when compared to conventional software and systems businesses. This was underpinned by the early focus on estimating and costing projects accurately in advance; there were sound systems in place to monitor progress, costs and quality.\n\nSome aspects of the company's technical work on standards and methods were published in technical journals and presented at international conferences. Senior technical staff and management contributed to technical journals and conferences concerning issues such as management \n, maintenance,\n\n\n<!-- "}
{"id": "12853880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12853880", "title": "Frederick Laurence Schaffner", "text": "Frederick Laurence Schaffner\n\nFrederick Laurence Schaffner (August 18, 1855 – May 22, 1935) was a Canadian physician and politician.\n\nBorn in Williamstown, Nova Scotia, the son of William C. Schaffner and A. Schaffner, his father of German and his mother of English descent, Schaffner was received a B.A. degree from Acadia University and a M.D., C.M. degree from Trinity College in Toronto. He was a member of the Manitoba Board of Health, a coroner, and Health Officer of the municipalities of Morton and Boissevain. He was a city councillor and Mayor of Boissevain, Manitoba.\n\nSchaffner was elected to the House of Commons of Canada for the Manitoba electoral district of Souris in the 1904 federal election. A Conservative, he was re-elected in 1908 and 1911. During World War I, he was a medical officer in the Royal Canadian Army Medical Corps. In 1917, he was summoned to the Senate of Canada on the advice of Robert Laird Borden representing the senatorial division of Souris, Manitoba. He served until his death in 1935.\n\n"}
{"id": "56964126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56964126", "title": "Ibn Masal", "text": "Ibn Masal\n\nNajm al-Din Abu'l-Fath Salim/Sulayman ibn Muhammad al-Lukki al-Maghribi (), better known as Ibn Masal (), was a military commander and official of the Fatimid Caliphate, who served briefly as the \"de facto\" vizier of the Caliphate from 1144/45 until he was overthrown and killed by al-Adil ibn al-Sallar and his supporters in the winter of 1149/50.\n\nHis \"nisbah\" (al-Maghribī) and the name Maṣāl suggest a Berber origin. He was born in the town of Lukk in the Cyrenaica. From his father, he learned falconry and veterinary science, which enabled him to assume a military post in the Fatimid capital Cairo. Details of his military career are not known, but by 1144/45 he had risen to the point where he was entrusted with the leadership of the government by Caliph al-Hafiz. He was not given the title of vizier, however, which had been vacant since the ouster of Ridwan ibn Walakhshi in 1139, but instead was titled \"supervisor of affairs\" (\"nāẓir fi’l-umūr\") and \"supervisor of the public interests\" (\"nāẓir fi ’l-maṣāliḥ\").\n\nWhen al-Hafiz died in October 1149, his 16-year-old son al-Zafir succeeded him. Al-Zafir, who was more interested in the pleasures of the court than exercising governance, appointed Ibn Masal, despite the latter's advanced age, as his vizier. Ibn Masal received the customary titles of the Fatimid viziers, \"al-Sayyid al-ʿAjal\" (\"most noble master\"), \"Amīr al-Juyūsh\" (\"commander of the armies\"), and \"al-Mufaḍḍal\" (\"the preferred one\") or \"al-Afḍal\" (\"most superior one\"). He was quickly successful in calming the quarrels between the Turkish cavalry (\"Rayḥānī\") and the black military slaves by distributing money and promising to take care of their future welfare.\n\nHe was soon after confronted with the rebellion of the governor of Alexandria, Ibn al-Sallar, who had entertained hopes of becoming vizier himself. Following the appointment of Ibn Masal, together with his stepson Abbas, Ibn al-Sallar marched on Cairo to seize the vizierate. When al-Zafir learned of Ibn Sallar's intentions, he called upon assistance from the grandees of the realm in support of Ibn Masal, but they proved unwilling to. In the end, the Caliph provided Ibn Masal with funds to raise an army for action against Ibn al-Sallar. Ibn Masal assembled a force of Lawata Berbers, of blacks, of Bedouin Arabs and of native Egyptians, but despite a first success in the field, he was soon forced to leave Cairo in December 1149 for Upper Egypt, to recruit more men, while Ibn al-Sallar took over the city. Ibn al-Sallar sent his stepson Abbas with an army against Ibn Masal and his ally, Badr ibn Rafi, who had tried unsuccessfully to rally resistance among the Arab tribes of the Nile Delta. The two armies met in battle at Dalas in the province of al-Bahnasa on 19 February 1150, in which Ibn Masal was defeated and killed. Abbas brought his severed head back to Cairo as a token of victory.\n\nHis vizierate had lasted only about 50 days. This was the last time a Fatimid caliph would exercise that right, as with Ibn al-Sallar's coup the vizierate became the object of fierce contest between rival strongmen, and the last Fatimid caliphs were reduced to mere figureheads.\n\n"}
{"id": "48944563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48944563", "title": "Ja'far ibn Fallah", "text": "Ja'far ibn Fallah\n\nJa'far ibn Fallah or ibn Falah was a Berber general of the Kutama tribe in the service of the Fatimid Caliphate. He led the first Fatimid attempt to conquer Syria in 970–971, but his attack on Byzantine-held Antioch was repulsed, and he lost his life in June 971 fighting against the Qarmatians.\n\nIn summer 969, the troops of the Fatimids of Ifriqiya, under the command of Jawhar al-Siqilli, conquered Egypt from its Ikhshidid rulers. The only resistance was offered by the regiments of the Ikhshidid army barricaded on the island of Rawdah Island near the capital of Fustat, but the Nile was low and the Fatimids' Kutama troops quickly crossed it and massacred the Ikhshidid troops. At the same time, further north, the Byzantine Empire seized Antioch. Seized with the spirit of \"jihad\" and aiming to legitimize their rule, the Fatimids used the Byzantine advance on Antioch and the \"infidel\" threat as a major item in their propaganda aimed towards the newly conquered region, along with promises to restore just government.\n\nJawhar therefore sent Ja'far ibn Fallah, who had distinguished himself before Fustat, to invade Palestine, where the remnants of the Ikhshidids were holding out. Ibn Fallah defeated and captured the Ikhshidid governor al-Hasan ibn Ubayd Allah ibn Tughj and took Ramla on 24 May 970. He then moved against Tiberias, held by the \"ghulam\" Fatik and his Banu Uqayl Bedouin allies. Fatik was killed through treachery, while Ibn Fallah used other Bedouin, the Banu Murra and the Banu Fazara, to drive the Uqayl north towards Homs. At the news of these events, the Ikhshidid-appointed governor of Damascus, Shamul, surrendered himself to the Fatimids. The Damascenes however resolved to resist and set up a governor of their own under the Abbasid Ibn Abi Ya'la and a certain Muhammad ibn Asuda, after Ibn Fallah's Kutama soldiers mistreated and robbed a delegation of leading citizens. The Damascene militia drove off the first detachments of the Fatimid army that appeared before the city walls, but as soon as Ibn Fallah himself with the bulk of his force appeared before the city in November and they were driven back behind the city walls, they offered to surrender. In stark contrast to Jawhar's leniency to Fustat, Ibn Fallah imposed humiliating terms on Damascus, demanding that the women come out and let their hair down in the dust. During the takeover of the city, the Kutama pillaged the markets and clashed with the populace for three days, after which Ibn Fallah executed several prominent citizens. This quietened the situation for the time, and Ibn Fallah secured Damascus by erecting a citadel in the city, but it left a legacy of hatred towards the Fatimids and their Berber troops in the city.\n\nAlmost as soon as Damascus submitted, Ibn Fallah entrusted one of his \"ghulams\", named Futuh (\"Victories\"), to carry out the promised \"jihad\" against the Byzantines. Futuh assembled a large army of Kutama Berbers, strengthened with levies from Palestine and southern Syria, and moved to besiege Antioch in December 970. The city resisted with success, and although Ibn Fallah sent reinforcements, they were unable to take it. In spring, a Byzantine relief army defeated a detachment of the Fatimid troops, forcing the Fatimids to raise the siege and withdraw. At the same time, Ibn Fallah faced an invasion by the Qarmatians. The Damascene leader Muhammad ibn Asuda, along with the Uqayli chieftain Zalim ibn Mawhub, had sought refuge with the Qarmatians of the Syrian Desert, and urged them to attack the Fatimids. The Qarmatians were all the more responsive because the Fatimids had stopped the Ikhshidid practice of paying them a tribute of some 300,000 gold dinars a year in exchange for peace. The Qarmatians mounted a major retaliatory expedition that involved a broad coalition of the region's powers: not only were the Qarmatians of Syria aided by their co-religionists of Bahrayn, but they also received aid from the Buyid ruler of Baghdad, Izz al-Dawla, and the Hamdanids of Mosul. They were also joined by former Ikhshidid \"ghulams\", the Bedouin of the Banu Kilab tribe, and the Uqayli followers of Zalim. Unwisely, Ibn Fallah chose to confront them in the open desert, where he was defeated and killed in battle in August 971. Muhammad ibn Asuda cut off his head in revenge at the death of his brother, who had been among the Damascene notables executed by Ibn Fallah.\n\nThis defeat led to the near total collapse of Fatimid control in southern Syria and Palestine, and the Qarmatian invasion of Egypt. The Fatimids were victorious before Fustat, however, and eventually managed to drive the Qarmatians out of Syria and restore their control over the restive province.\n\nHis son Sulayman also became a senior Fatimid commander, serving from the late 970s until the late 990s, as did his brother Ibrahim. Another brother, Ali, also became a senior commander at the turn of the 11th century, and was honoured with the \"laqab\" of \"Qutb al-Dawla\" (\"Axis of the Realm\") for his services against Mufarrij ibn Daghfal ibn al-Jarrah and his Bedouin.\n\n"}
{"id": "5340758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5340758", "title": "John Fitzgerald Clarke", "text": "John Fitzgerald Clarke\n\nJohn Fitzgerald Clarke (July 16, 1827 – April 19, 1887) was an Ontario physician and political figure. He represented Norfolk North in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1871 to 1879.\n\nHe was born in Coventry, England in 1827, the son of a Congregational minister who was sent to Upper Canada as a missionary in 1837. He studied medicine at McGill College and settled in Vittoria. He moved to Simcoe in 1851. He served on the town council and was the coroner for Norfolk County from 1848 to 1870. Clarke was editor and owner of the \"Long Point Advocate\". He was later named sheriff for Thunder Bay District and moved to Port Arthur (later part of the city of Thunder Bay), where he died in 1887.\n\nHis brother William Fletcher Clarke was a minister and journalist.\n\n"}
{"id": "2020952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2020952", "title": "Julia the Elder", "text": "Julia the Elder\n\nJulia the Elder (30 October 39 BC – AD 14), known to her contemporaries as Julia Caesaris filia or Julia Augusti filia (Classical Latin: or ), was the daughter and only biological child of Augustus, the first emperor of the Roman Empire. Augustus subsequently adopted several male members of his close family as sons. Julia resulted from Augustus' second marriage with Scribonia, her birth occurring on the same day as Scribonia's divorce from Augustus, who wished to marry Livia.\n\nShe was the daughter of the Emperor Augustus, stepsister and second wife of the Emperor Tiberius, maternal grandmother of the Emperor Caligula and the Empress Agrippina the Younger, grandmother-in-law of the Emperor Claudius, and maternal great-grandmother of the Emperor Nero.\n\nAt the time of Julia's birth, 39 BC, Augustus had not yet received the title \"Augustus\" and was known as \"Gaius Julius Caesar Divi Filius,\" though historians refer to him as \"Octavian\" until 27 BC, when Julia was 11. Octavian divorced Julia's mother the day of her birth and took Julia from her soon thereafter. Octavian, in accordance with Roman custom, claimed complete parental control over her. She was sent to live with her stepmother Livia when she was old enough and learn how to be an aristocrat. Her education appears to have been strict and somewhat old-fashioned. Thus, in addition to her studies, Suetonius informs us, she was taught spinning and weaving. Macrobius mentions \"her love of literature and considerable culture, a thing easy to come by in that household\".\n\nJulia's social life was severely controlled, and she was allowed to talk only to people whom her father had vetted. However, Octavian had a great affection for his daughter and made sure she had the best teachers available. Macrobius preserves a remark of Augustus: \"There are two wayward daughters that I have to put up with: the Roman commonwealth and Julia.\"\n\nIn 37 BC, during Julia's early childhood, Octavian's friends Gaius Maecenas and Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa concluded an agreement with Octavian's great rival Mark Antony. It was sealed with an engagement: Antony's ten-year-old son Marcus Antonius Antyllus was to marry Julia, then two years old.\n\nThe engagement never led to a marriage because civil war broke out. In 31 BC, at the Battle of Actium, Octavian and Agrippa defeated Antony and his wife, Cleopatra. In Alexandria, they both committed suicide, and Octavian became sole ruler of the Roman Empire.\n\nAs with most aristocratic Roman women of the period, expectations of Julia focused on marriage and on the resulting family alliances. Moreover, Augustus desired a male issue; as his only living child Julia's duty would be to provide her father with grandsons whom he could adopt as his heirs. \n\nIn 25 BC, at the age of fourteen, Julia married her first cousin Marcus Claudius Marcellus, the son of her father's sister Octavia, who was some three years older than her. Augustus himself was not present for the wedding as he was fighting a war in Spain and had fallen ill. Instead, he commissioned Agrippa to preside over the ceremony and hold the festival in his absence.\n\nThe decision to marry Marcellus to Julia, and then Augustus's choice to raise Marcellus to the pontificate and curule aedileship, was perceived to be an indication that he would be Augustus' successor in power, despite his youth. This put him at odds with Agrippa, whom people believed would oppose Marcellus' accession to power; the apparent preference for Marcellus is allegedly the catalyst that led to Agrippa to withdraw to Mytilene, Greece.\n\nHowever, Marcellus died in September 23 BC when Julia was sixteen. The union produced no children.\n\nIn 21 BC, having now reached the age of 18, Julia married Agrippa, a man from a modest family who had risen to become Augustus' most trusted general and friend. This step is said to have been taken partly on the advice of Maecenas, who in counseling him remarked: \"You have made him so great that he must either become your son-in-law or be slain.\" Since Agrippa was nearly 25 years her elder, it was a typical arranged marriage, with Julia functioning as a pawn in her father's dynastic plans. There is from this period the report of an infidelity with one Sempronius Gracchus, with whom Julia allegedly had a lasting \"liaison\" (Tacitus describes him as \"a persistent paramour\"). This was the first of a series of alleged adulteries. According to Suetonius, Julia's marital status did not prevent her from conceiving a passion for Augustus' stepson, and thus her stepbrother, Tiberius, so it was widely rumoured.\n\nThe newlyweds lived in a villa in Rome that has since been excavated near the modern Farnesina in Trastevere. Agrippa and Julia's marriage resulted in five children: Gaius Caesar, Julia the Younger, Lucius Caesar, Agrippina the Elder (mother of Caligula), and Agrippa Postumus (a posthumous son). From June 20 BC to the spring of 18 BC, Agrippa was governor of Gaul, and it is likely that Julia followed him across the Alps. Shortly after their arrival, their first child Gaius was born, and in 19 BC, Julia gave birth to Vipsania Julia. After their return to Italy, a third child followed: a son named Lucius. In 17 BC, Augustus adopted the newborn Lucius and the three-year-old Gaius. He took care of their education personally. Although Agrippa died in 12 BC, Augustus did not adopt the third brother, Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa Posthumus, until AD 4, after the exile of Julia - and after the deaths of both Gaius and Lucius.\n\nNicolaus and Josephus mention that during Julia's marriage to Agrippa, she travelled to meet Agrippa where he was campaigning. She was caught up in a flash flood in Ilium (Troy), and almost drowned. Agrippa was furious, and in his anger he fined the locals 100,000 drachmae. The fine was a heavy blow but no one would face Agrippa to request an appeal. Only after Herod, king of Judaea, went to Agrippa to request a pardon did he withdraw the fine. In the spring of 16 BC, Agrippa and Julia started a tour through the eastern provinces, where they visited Herod. In October 14 BC, the couple traveled to Athens, where Julia gave birth to her fourth child, Agrippina.\n\nAfter the winter, the family returned to Italy. Julia quickly became pregnant again, but her husband died suddenly in March 12 BC in Campania at the age of 51. He was buried in the Mausoleum of Augustus. Julia named the son Marcus in his honor. He was to be known as Agrippa Postumus. Immediately after the boy was born, and while Julia was still in mourning, Augustus had her betrothed and then remarried to Tiberius, her stepbrother.\n\nAfter the death of Agrippa, Augustus sought to promote his step-son Tiberius, believing that this would best serve his own dynastic interests. Tiberius married Julia (11 BC), but first had to divorce Vipsania Agrippina (daughter from a previous marriage of Agrippa), the woman he dearly loved. Suetonius alleges that Tiberius had a low opinion of Julia's character, while Tacitus claims that she disdained Tiberius as an unequal match and even sent her father a letter, written by Sempronius Gracchus, denouncing him. The marriage was thus blighted almost from the start, and the son that Julia bore him died in infancy. By 6 BC, when Tiberius departed for Rhodes, if not earlier, the couple had separated.\n\nBecause Augustus was her legitimate father, having married her mother with \"conubium\", Augustus had Patria Potestas over her. \"Patria Potestas\" lasted until the paterfamilias, Augustus, either died or emancipated his child. Marriage had no effect on \"Patria Potestas\", unless it was manus marriage which was rare at this point in time.\n\nAs the daughter of Augustus, mother (now legally the sister) of two of his heirs, Lucius and Gaius, and wife of another, Tiberius, Julia's future seemed assured to all. Yet in 2 BC she was arrested for adultery and treason; Augustus sent her a letter in Tiberius' name declaring the marriage null and void (Tiberius was at this time on the island of Rhodes and unable to respond quickly). He also asserted in public that she had been plotting against his own life. Though at the time Augustus had been passing legislation to promote family values, he likely knew of her intrigues with other men but hesitated for some time to accuse her. Several of Julia's supposed lovers were exiled, most notably Sempronius Gracchus, while Iullus Antonius (son of Mark Antony and Fulvia) was forced to commit suicide. Others have suggested that Julia's alleged paramours were members of her city clique, who wished to remove Tiberius from favour and replace him with Antonius. This would explain the letter, written by Gracchus, asking Augustus to allow Julia to divorce Tiberius.\n\nReluctant to execute her, Augustus decided instead to confine Julia on Pandateria, an island that measures less than , with no men in sight and forbidden even to drink wine. Her mother, Scribonia, accompanied her into exile. She was allowed no visitor unless her father had given permission and had been informed of the stature, complexion, and even of any marks or scars upon his body. \n\nIn AD 6, Julia's youngest son, Agrippa Postumus, was exiled for his growing unruliness. Then in 8 her elder daughter, Julia the Younger, was exiled to Tremirus also charged with adultery; it may also have been related to the attempted revolt by her husband Lucius Aemilius Paullus and one Plautius Rufus. It is said that at any mention of Julia or her two disgraced children, Augustus would remark of them: \"If only I had never married, or had died childless\", slightly misquoting Hector, in the Iliad. \n\nFive years after her initial exile, around AD 4, Julia was moved to Rhegium on the mainland and Augustus appears to have granted her a \"peculium\" (property), a yearly income and permitted her to walk about the town. Despite these concessions Augustus never forgave her nor ever allowed her to return to Rome. This choice appears to have been unpopular with the Roman people who petitioned several times for her to be recalled. Julia's exile cast a long shadow over Augustus's remaining years. There is mention of at least one suppressed plot to take her from captivity; one Lucius Audasius and one Asinius Epicadus had planned to forcibly take her and her son Agrippa Postumus from where they were held and to the armies, presumably to stage a coup against Augustus.\n\nUpon Augustus' death in 14, Tiberius ascended to the Princeps. Despite having shown some sympathy towards Julia when she was initially exiled, he instead enforced harsher conditions upon her. He removed her dowry and yearly income, citing that Augustus had failed to make provisions for them in his will, and thus left her destitute. Furthermore, he denied her permission to leave her house or receive visitors.\n\nJulia died in 14, some time after Augustus' death. While it is generally agreed by contemporary historians that it was as a result of Tiberius's actions against her, the circumstances of her death are obscure. Dio Cassius indicates Tiberius had a direct hand in her death by imprisoning her until she died either from debility or starvation. Tacitus remarks that upon learning Postumus had been murdered, she succumbed to despair and her health slowly declined. Augustus had explicitly given instructions in his will that she should not be buried in his Mausoleum of Augustus.\n\nSimultaneously, her alleged \"paramour\" Sempronius Gracchus, who had endured 14 years of exile on Cercina (Kerkenna) off the African coast, was executed either at Tiberius' instigation or on the independent initiative of Nonius Asprenas, proconsul of Africa.\n\nHer daughter Julia died in AD 29 after 20 years of exile; she was also forbidden to be buried in Augustus' tomb by his will.\n\nAccording to Suetonius, after his own ascension Caligula, the son of Julia's daughter Agrippina and Tiberius's nephew Germanicus, would claim that his mother Agrippina was the product of an incestuous union between Julia and Augustus. The reason for this is allegedly because he did not wish to be thought of as the grandson of Agrippa due to his humble origins. However, the existence of coins and inscriptions dating from Caligula's reign that clearly identify Agrippina as Agrippa's daughter suggests this account is apocryphal.\n\nAmong contemporary writers Julia is almost universally remembered for her flagrant and promiscuous conduct. Thus Marcus Velleius Paterculus (2.100) describes her as \"tainted by luxury or lust\", listing among her lovers Iullus Antonius, Quintius Crispinus, Appius Claudius, Sempronius Gracchus, and Cornelius Scipio. Seneca the Younger refers to \"adulterers admitted in droves\"; Pliny the Elder calls her an “\"exemplum licentiae\"” (\"NH\" 21.9). Dio Cassius mentions \"revels and drinking parties by night in the Forum and even upon the Rostra\" (\"Roman History\" 55.10). Seneca (\"De Beneficiis\" 6.32) tells us that the Rostra was the place where \"her father had proposed a law against adultery\", and yet now she had chosen the place for her \"debaucheries\". Seneca specifically mentions prostitution: \"laying aside the role of adulteress, she there [\"in the Forum\"] sold her favours, and sought the right to every indulgence with even an unknown paramour.\" Modern historians discredit these representations as exaggerating Julia's behaviour.\n\nMacrobius provides invaluable details of her witticisms and personality. Among the sassy ripostes he attributes to her is a retort to people's surprise that all her children all resembled Agrippa - “I take on a passenger only when the ship’s hold is full.” On her character, he writes that Julia was extensively celebrated for her amiable, empathetic nature and studiousness despite her profligacy; \"[S]he was abusing her standing as fortune’s darling, and her father’s, though in other respects she gained a great deal of credit for her love of literature and extensive learning... and her kindness, fellow-feeling, and lack of cruelty.\"\n\nSidonius Apollinaris, writing in the 5th century, was the first person to identify Julia as the figure Corinna in Ovid's \"Amores\".\n\n\n\n\nIn 1605, the Polish historian Laurentius Suslyga, published a tract (later quoted by Kepler), which for the first time suggested that the mythological figure Jesus was born sometime during the years 6-4 BC, not on December 25, 1 BC as Dionysius Exiguus implied, but never stated. According to Dionysius' dating scheme, the Christian era supposedly began on January 1, AD 1 about one week after Jesus' birth at the end of December. Julia's expulsion from Rome in 2 BC was featured in Suslyga's chronological argument which sought to establish Herod's death in 4 BC. Suslyga's chronological ideas concerning the dating of Herod's death based on Julia the Elder's exile have since been challenged by archaeologists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18482112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18482112", "title": "Lambert Adelot", "text": "Lambert Adelot\n\nLambert Adelot (born 14 June 1898, date of death unknown) was a Belgian field hockey player who competed in the 1928 Summer Olympics and in the 1936 Summer Olympics.\n\nHe was a member of the Belgian field hockey team which finished fourth in the 1928 Olympic tournament. He played all five matches as halfback.\n\nEight years later he was part of the Belgian team which was eliminated in the first round of the 1936 Olympic tournament. He played all three matches.\n\n"}
{"id": "55373807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55373807", "title": "List of disasters in Romania by death toll", "text": "List of disasters in Romania by death toll\n\nThe list of disasters in Romania by death toll includes major disasters and accidents – excluding warfare and other intentional acts – that took place on Romanian soil and resulted in at least five fatalities:\n"}
{"id": "41342482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41342482", "title": "List of people executed in Romania", "text": "List of people executed in Romania\n\nThis is a list of people executed in Romania. The list includes judicial executions carried out on the territory of present-day Romania, whether by that state or its antecedents.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28846765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28846765", "title": "List of piscine and amphibian humanoids", "text": "List of piscine and amphibian humanoids\n\nPiscine and amphibian humanoids (people with the characteristics of fish or amphibians) appear in folklore and fiction.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44241528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44241528", "title": "List of suicides in the 21st century", "text": "List of suicides in the 21st century\n\nThe following are lists of notable people who intentionally killed themselves in the 21st century. Suicides committed under duress are included. Deaths by accident or misadventure are excluded. Individuals who might or might not have died by their own hand, or whose intention to die is in dispute, but who are widely believed to have deliberately killed themselves, may be listed under \"Possible suicides\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26884679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26884679", "title": "Ljubo Čupić", "text": "Ljubo Čupić\n\nČedomir \"Ljubo\" Čupić (; 1913 – 9 May 1942) was a Yugoslav law student, political commissioner of Communist resistance movement in Nikšić, Montenegro and a decorated war hero of SFR Yugoslavia. He became famous for the photo of him taken moments before he was shot by Chetnik collaborators who captured him, showing him with shackles on his hands and smiling. He is a recipient of the Order of the People's Hero, a Yugoslav gallantry medal. He is commonly referred to by media as \"Montenegrin Che Guevara\".\n\nHe was born in 1913 in the United States, being one of the ten children in an immigrant Montenegrin working-class family of father Sava and mother Stana (née Burić), from the village of Zagreda.\n\nDuring the 1930s, he moved to Nikšić, where he finished high school. He studied law at the University of Belgrade, and was a member of a progressive student movement, and joined the League of Communists of Yugoslavia in 1940.\n\nAfter the invasion of Yugoslavia he returned to Nikšić and participated in the preparation of the uprising. In July 1941, he fled from the Nazi-occupied city, and joined the partisan division \"Đuro Đaković\", formed by communists and SKOJ members who also escaped from Nikšić.\n\nAs a commissioner of the Partisan movement in Nikšić, he was captured by Chetniks in April 1942, after a battle on Kablena Glavica near Nikšić. He was tortured in prison and was subject to a public trial by the \"ad hoc\" court composed by the Chetniks. He was sentenced to death and executed by shooting squad following the illegal and biased trial. Before the public execution, he cheered his friends and the people who were forced to witness the event. Among his last word was the parole \"Long live the glorious Communist Party.\"\n\nHe was posthumously declared a people's hero by the decree of the Yugoslav President Josip Broz Tito on 10 July 1953.\n\nIn memory of Ljubo Čupić, a street in Zagorič, a neighbourhood of Podgorica, has been named after him.\n"}
{"id": "189043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189043", "title": "Loyalty", "text": "Loyalty\n\nLoyalty, in general use, is a devotion and faithfulness to a nation, cause, philosophy, country, group, or person. Philosophers disagree on what can be an object of loyalty, as some argue that loyalty is strictly interpersonal and only another human being can be the object of loyalty. The definition of loyalty in law and political science is the fidelity of an individual to a nation, either one's nation of birth, or one's declared home nation by oath (naturalization).\n\nClassical tragedy is often based on a conflict arising from dual loyalty. \n\"Euthyphro\", one of Plato's early dialogues, is based on the ethical dilemma arising from\nEuthyphro intending to lay manslaughter charges against his own father, who had caused the death of a slave through negligence.\n\nIn the Gospel of Matthew 6:24, Jesus states, \"No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon\". This relates to the authority of a master over his servants (as per Ephesians 6:5), who, according to Biblical law, owe undivided loyalty to their master (as per Leviticus 25:44–46).\nOn the other hand, the \"Render unto Caesar\" of the synoptic gospels acknowledges the possibility of distinct loyalties (secular and religious) without conflict, but if loyalty to man conflicts with loyalty to God, the latter takes precedence.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" Eleventh Edition defines loyalty as \"allegiance to the sovereign or established government of one's country\" and also \"personal devotion and reverence to the sovereign and royal family\". It traces the word \"loyalty\" to the 15th century, noting that then it primarily referred to fidelity in service, in love, or to an oath that one has made. The meaning that the \"Britannica\" gives as primary, it attributes to a shift during the 16th century, noting that the origin of the word is in the Old French \"loialte\", that is in turn rooted in the Latin \"lex\", meaning \"law\". One who is loyal, in the feudal sense of fealty, is one who is lawful (as opposed to an outlaw), who has full legal rights as a consequence of faithful allegiance to a feudal lord. Hence the 1911 \"Britannica\" derived its (early 20th century) primary meaning of loyalty to a monarch.\n\n(Zhong) Often cited as one of the many virtues of Confucianism, meaning to do the best you can do for others.\n\n\"Loyalty\" is the most important and frequently emphasized virtue in Bushido. It combines other six virtues, such as Righteousness (義 gi?), Courage (勇 yū?), Benevolence, (仁 jin?), Respect (礼 rei?), Sincerity (誠 makoto?), Honour (名誉 meiyo?), and formed the Bushido code: \"It is somehow implanted in their chromosomal makeup to be loyal\".\n\nJosiah Royce presented a different definition of the concept in his 1908 book \"The Philosophy of Loyalty\". According to Royce, loyalty is a virtue, indeed a primary virtue, \"the heart of all the virtues, the central duty amongst all the duties\". Royce presents loyalty, which he defines at length, as the basic moral principle from which all other principles can be derived. The short definition that he gives of the idea is that loyalty is \"the willing and practical and thoroughgoing devotion of a person to a cause\". Loyalty is thoroughgoing in that it is not merely a casual interest but a wholehearted commitment to a cause.\n\nRoyce's view of loyalty was challenged by Ladd in the article on \"Loyalty\" in the first edition of the Macmillan \"Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" (1967).\n\nRalls (1968) observes that Ladd's article is the Macmillan \"Encyclopaedia\"s only article on a virtue, and praises it for its \"magnificent\" declaration by Ladd that \"a loyal Nazi is a contradiction in terms\".\nLadd asserts that, contrary to Royce, causes to which one is loyal are interpersonal, not impersonal or suprapersonal. He states that Royce's view has \"the ethical defect of postulating duties over and above our individual duties to men and groups of men. The individual is submerged and lost in this superperson for its tends to dissolve our specific duties to others into 'superhuman' good\". Ronald F. Duska, the Lamont Post Chair of Ethics and the Professions at The American College, extends Ladd's objection, saying that it is a perversion of ethics and virtue for one's self-will to be identified with anything, as Royce would have it. Even if one were identifying one's self-will with God, to be worthy of such loyalty God would have to be the \"summum bonum\", the perfect manifestation of good.\n\nLadd himself characterizes loyalty as interpersonal, i.e., a relationship between a lord and vassal, parent and child, or two good friends. Duska states that doing so leads to a problem that Ladd overlooks. Loyalty may certainly be between two persons, but it may also be from a person to a group of people. Examples of this, which are unequivocally considered to be instances of loyalty, are loyalty by a person to his or her family, to a team that he or she is a member or fan of, or to his or her country. The problem with this that Duska identifies is that it then becomes unclear whether there is a strict interpersonal relationship involved, and whether Ladd's contention that loyalty is interpersonal—not suprapersonal—is an adequate description.\n\nLadd considers loyalty from two perspectives: its proper object and its moral value. \n\nJohn Kleinig, professor of philosophy at City University of New York, observes that over the years the idea has been treated by writers from Aeschylus through John Galsworthy to Joseph Conrad, by psychologists, psychiatrists, sociologists, scholars of religion, political economists, scholars of business and marketing, and—most particularly—by political theorists, who deal with it in terms of loyalty oaths and patriotism. As a philosophical concept, loyalty was largely untreated by philosophers until the work of Josiah Royce, the \"grand exception\" in Kleinig's words. John Ladd, professor of philosophy at Brown University, writing in the Macmillan \"Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" in 1967, observes that by that time the subject had received \"scant attention in philosophical literature\". This he attributed to \"odious\" associations that the subject had with nationalism, including Nazism, and with the metaphysics of idealism, which he characterized as \"obsolete\". However, he argued that such associations were faulty and that the notion of loyalty is \"an essential ingredient in any civilized and humane system of morals\". Kleinig observes that from the 1980s onwards, the subject gained attention, with philosophers variously relating it to professional ethics, whistleblowing, friendship, and virtue theory.\n\nAdditional aspects enumerated by Kleinig include the exclusionary nature of loyalty and its subjects.\n\nLadd and others, including Milton R. Konvitz and Marcia W. Baron (1984), disagree amongst themselves as to the proper \"object of\" loyalty—what it is possible to be loyal \"to\", in other words. Ladd, as stated, considers loyalty to be interpersonal, and that the object of loyalty is always a person. In the \"Encyclopaedia of the History of Ideas\", Konvitz states that the objects of loyalty encompass principles, causes, ideas, ideals, religions, ideologies, nations, governments, parties, leaders, families, friends, regions, racial groups, and \"anyone or anything to which one's heart can become attached or devoted\". Baron agrees with Ladd, inasmuch as loyalty is \"to certain people or to a group of people, not loyalty to an ideal or cause\". She argues in her monograph, \"The Moral Status of Loyalty\", that \"[w]hen we speak of causes (or ideals) we are more apt to say that people are committed to them or devoted to them than that they are loyal to them\". Kleinig agrees with Baron, noting that a person's earliest and strongest loyalties are almost always to people, and that only later do people arrive at abstract notions like values, causes, and ideals. He disagrees, however, with the notion that loyalties are restricted \"solely\" to personal attachments, considering it \"incorrect (as a matter of logic)\". Loyalty to people and abstract notions such as causes or ideals is considered an evolutionary tactic, as there is a greater chance of survival and procreation if animals belong to loyal packs.\n\nStephen Nathanson, professor of Philosophy at Northeastern University, states that loyalty can be either \"exclusionary\" or \"non-exclusionary\"; and can be \"single\" or \"multiple\". Exclusionary loyalty excludes loyalties to other people or groups; whereas non-exclusionary loyalty does not. People may have single loyalties, to just one person, group, or thing, or multiple loyalties to multiple objects. Multiple loyalties can constitute a \"disloyalty\" to an object if one of those loyalties is \"exclusionary\", excluding one of the others. However, Nathanson observes, this is a special case. In the general case, the existence of multiple loyalties does not cause a disloyalty. One can, for example, be loyal to one's friends, or one's family, and still, without contradiction, be loyal to one's religion, or profession.\n\nIn addition to \"number\" and \"exclusion\" as just outlined, Nathanson enumerates five other \"dimensions\" that loyalty can vary along: basis, strength, scope, legitimacy, and attitude.\n\nLoyalties differ in \"basis\" according to their foundations. They may be constructed upon the basis of unalterable facts that constitute a personal connection between the subject and the object of the loyalty, such as biological ties or place of birth (a notion of natural allegiance propounded by Socrates in his political theory). Alternatively, they may be constructed from personal choice and evaluation of criteria with a full degree of freedom. The degree of control that one has is not necessarily simple; Nathanson points out that whilst one has no choice as to one's parents or relatives, one \"can\" choose to desert them.\n\nLoyalties differ in \"strength\". They can range from supreme loyalties, that override all other considerations, to merely presumptive loyalties, that affect one's presumptions, providing but one motivation for action that is weighed against other motivations. Nathanson observes that strength of loyalty is often interrelated with basis. \"Blood is thicker than water\", states an aphorism, explaining that loyalties that have biological ties as their bases are generally stronger.\n\nLoyalties differ in \"scope\". They range from loyalties with limited scope, that require few actions of the subject, to loyalties with broad or even unlimited scopes, which require many actions, or indeed to do whatever may be necessary in support of the loyalty. Loyalty to one's job, for example, may require no more action than simple punctuality and performance of the tasks that the job requires. Loyalty to a family member can, in contrast, have a very broad effect upon one's actions, requiring considerable personal sacrifice. Extreme patriotic loyalty may impose an unlimited scope of duties. Scope encompasses an element of \"constraint\". Where two or more loyalties conflict, their scopes determine what weight to give to the alternative courses of action required by each loyalty.\n\nLoyalties differ in \"legitimacy\". This is of particular relevance to the conflicts among multiple loyalties. People with one loyalty can hold that another, conflicting, loyalty is either legitimate or illegitimate. In the extreme view, one that Nathanson ascribes to religious extremists and xenophobes for examples, all loyalties bar one's own are considered illegitimate. The xenophobe does not regard the loyalties of foreigners to their countries as legitimate while the religious extremist does not acknowledge the legitimacy of other religions. At the other end of the spectrum, past the middle ground of considering some loyalties as legitimate and others not, according to cases, or plain and simple indifference to other people's loyalties, is the positive regard of other people's loyalties.\n\nFinally, loyalties differ in the \"attitude\" that the subjects of the loyalties have towards other people. (Note that this dimension of loyalty concerns the \"subjects\" of the loyalty, whereas legitimacy, above, concerns the loyalties themselves.) People may have one of a range of possible attitudes towards others who do not share their loyalties, with hate and disdain at one end, indifference in the middle, and concern and positive feeling at the other.\n\nNathanson observes that loyalty is often directly equated to patriotism. He states, that this is, however, not actually the case, arguing that whilst patriots exhibit loyalty, it is not conversely the case that all loyal persons are patriots. He provides the example of a mercenary soldier, who exhibits loyalty to the people or country that pays him. Nathanson points to the difference in motivations between a loyal mercenary and a patriot. A mercenary may well be motivated by a sense of professionalism or a belief in the sanctity of contracts. A patriot, in contrast, may be motivated by affection, concern, identification, and a willingness to sacrifice.\n\nNathanson contends that patriotic loyalty is not always a virtue. A loyal person can, in general be relied upon, and hence people view loyalty as virtuous. Nathanson argues that loyalty can, however, be given to persons or causes that are unworthy. Moreover, loyalty can lead patriots to support policies that are immoral and inhumane. Thus, Nathanson argues, patriotic loyalty can sometimes rather be a vice than a virtue, when its consequences exceed the boundaries of what is otherwise morally desirable. Such loyalties, in Nathanson's view, are erroneously \"unlimited\" in their scopes, and fail to acknowledge boundaries of morality.\n\nSeveral scholars, including Duska, discuss loyalty in the context of whistleblowing. Wim Vandekerckhove of the University of Greenwich points out that in the late 20th century saw the rise of a notion of a \"bidirectional\" loyalty—between employees and their employer. (Previous thinking had encompassed the idea that employees are loyal to an employer, but not that an employer need be loyal to employees.) The ethics of whistleblowing thus encompass a conflicting multiplicity of loyalties, where the traditional loyalty of the employee to the employer conflicts with the loyalty of the employee to his or her community, which the employer's business practices may be adversely affecting. Vandekerckhove reports that different scholars resolve the conflict in different ways, some of which he, himself, does not find to be satisfactory. Duska resolves the conflict by asserting that there is really only one proper object of loyalty in such instances, the community, a position that Vandekerckhove counters by arguing that businesses are in need of employee loyalty.\n\nJohn Corvino, associate professor of Philosophy at Wayne State University takes a different tack, arguing that loyalty can sometimes be a vice, not a virtue, and that \"loyalty is only a virtue to the extent that the object of loyalty is good\" (similar to Nathanson). Vandekerckhove calls this argument \"interesting\" but \"too vague\" in its description of how tolerant an employee should be of an employer's shortcomings. Vandekerckhove suggests that Duska and Corvino combine, however, to point in a direction that makes it possible to resolve the conflict of loyalties in the context of whistleblowing, by clarifying the objects of those loyalties.\n\nBusinesses seek to become the objects of loyalty in order to retain customers. Brand loyalty is a consumer's preference for a particular brand and a commitment to repeatedly purchase that brand. Loyalty programs offer rewards to repeat customers in exchange for being able to keep track of consumer preferences and buying habits.\n\nOne similar concept is fan loyalty, an allegiance to and abiding interest in a sports team, fictional character, or fictional series. Devoted sports fans continue to remain fans even in the face of a string of losing seasons.\n\nAttempting to serve two masters leads to “double-mindedness” (James 4:8), undermining loyalty to a cause. The Bible also speaks of loyal ones, which would be those who follow the Bible with absolute loyalty, as in \"Precious in the eyes of God is the death of his loyal ones\" (Psalms 116:15). Most Jewish and Christian authors view the binding of Isaac (Genesis 22), in which Abraham was called by God to offer his son Isaac as a burnt offering, as a test of Abraham's loyalty. Joseph's faithfulness to his master Potiphar and his rejection of Potiphar's wife's advances (Genesis 39) have also been called an example of the virtue of loyalty.\n\nMisplaced or mistaken loyalty refers to loyalty placed in other persons or organisations where that loyalty is not acknowledged or respected, is betrayed, or taken advantage of. It can also mean loyalty to a malignant or misguided cause.\n\nSocial psychology provides a partial explanation for the phenomenon in the way \"the \"norm of social commitment\" directs us to honor our agreements...People usually stick to the deal even though it has changed for the worse\". Humanists point out that \"man inherits the capacity for loyalty, but not the use to which he shall put it...may unselfishly devote himself to what is petty or vile, as he may to what is generous and noble\".\n\nAnimals as pets have a large sense of loyalty to humans. Famous cases include Greyfriars Bobby, a Skye terrier who attended his master's grave for fourteen years; Hachiko, a dog who returned to the place he used to meet his master every day for nine years after his death; and Foxie, the spaniel belonging to Charles Gough, who stayed by her dead master's side for three months on Helvellyn in the Lake District in 1805 (although it is possible that Foxie had eaten Gough's body).\n\nIn the \"Mahabharata\", the righteous King Yudhishthira appears at the gates of Heaven at the end of his life with a stray dog he had picked up along the way as a companion, having previously lost his brothers and his wife to death. The god Indra is prepared to admit him to Heaven, but refuses to admit the dog, so Yudhishthira refuses to abandon the dog, and prepares to turn away from the gates of Heaven. Then the dog is revealed to be the manifestation of Dharma, the god of righteousness and justice, and who turned out to be his deified self. Yudhishthira enters heaven in the company of his dog, the god of righteousness.\nYudhishthira is known by the epithet Dharmaputra, the lord of righteous duty.\n\n"}
{"id": "56491556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56491556", "title": "Mamane Barka", "text": "Mamane Barka\n\nMalam Mamane Barka (1958/1959 – 21 November 2018) was a Nigerien musician, and one of the world's most prominent players of the \"biram\". He died on 21 November 2018, aged 59.\n\nMalam Mamane Barka was born in 1958 or 1959 in Tesker, a town in the east of the then autonomous republic of Niger. He came from the nomadic people of Toubou. As a player of the Ngurumi, a two-string plucked instrument, he gained popularity in his homeland and neighboring Nigeria. In 2002 he decided to devote himself to the study of Biram. It is a five-stringed instrument used by the Boudouma, a fishing community on Lake Chad, for traditional songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "14889295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14889295", "title": "Mohammed Hamdi al-Ahdal", "text": "Mohammed Hamdi al-Ahdal\n\nMohammed Hamdi al-Ahdal is a citizen of Saudi Arabia who played a role in the\nattack on the French supertanker MV Limburg.\nThe attack occurred in October 2002, in the Gulf of Aden, off Yemen.\nOne Bulgarian crew member was killed. Twelve crew members were injured. 90,000 tonnes of oil were spilled.\nAl-Ahdal was captured in Yemen on November 25, 2003.\n\nDuring the 90s' he fought in Bosnia and Chechnya.\n\nAccording to Global Security Al-Ahdal was born in 1971, and received a three-year sentence.\nThe Prosecution appealed, because they thought the original sentence was too lenient.\nHowever, the original sentence was upheld.\n\nFawaz al-Rabihi, also convicted of a role in the bombing, received a life sentence.\n"}
{"id": "4585689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4585689", "title": "Monsanto House of the Future", "text": "Monsanto House of the Future\n\nThe Monsanto House of the Future was an attraction at Disneyland's Tomorrowland. in Anaheim, California, USA, from 1957 to 1967. \n\nSponsored by Monsanto Company, the House of the Future was made possible by Monsanto, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), and Walt Disney Imagineering. With this project, Monsanto wanted to demonstrate plastics' versatility as a high-quality, engineered material. The design team for this innovative structure included MIT architecture faculty Richard Hamilton and Marvin Goody (founders of Goody Clancy) and MIT civil engineering faculty Albert G. H. Dietz , Frank J. Heger, Jr. (a founder of Simpson Gumpertz & Heger) and Frederick J. McGarry. The MIT faculty worked with the Engineering Department of Monsanto's Plastics Division, including R. P. Whittier and M. F. Gigliotti. The house, featuring four symmetric wings cantilevered off a central core, was fabricated with glass-reinforced plastics.\n\nThe attraction offered a tour of a home of the future, featuring household appliances such as microwave ovens, which eventually became commonplace. The house saw over 435,000 visitors within the first six weeks of opening, and ultimately saw over 20 million visitors before being closed.\n\nThe house closed in 1967. The building was so sturdy that when demolition crews failed to demolish the house using wrecking balls, torches, chainsaws and jackhammers, the building was ultimately demolished using choker chains to crush it into smaller parts. The plastic structure was so strong that the half-inch steel bolts used to mount it to its foundation broke before the structure itself did.\n\nThe reinforced concrete foundation was never removed, and remains in its original location, now the Pixie Hollow, where it has been painted green and is used as a planter.\n\nThe House of the Future has had a significant impact on later design at Disney and Epcot. In February 2008, Disney announced it would conceptually bring back the attraction with a more modern and accessible interior. The $15 million Innoventions Dream Home was a collaboration of the Walt Disney Company, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, software maker LifeWare, and homebuilder Taylor Morrison.\n\nIn 2010, MIT Museum Architecture Curator Gary Van Zante gave a presentation on campus where he showed archived drawings and photographs of the plastic house. The talk, titled \"Back to the Future: A 1950s House of the Future\", was part of the Cambridge Science Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41083851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41083851", "title": "Muta of Daylam", "text": "Muta of Daylam\n\nMuta was a 7th-century Daylamite king, who fought against the Arabs in the battle of Waj Rudh. He was, however, defeated and killed by Nu'aym ibn Muqarrin.\n\n"}
{"id": "23003393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23003393", "title": "Negligible senescence", "text": "Negligible senescence\n\nNegligible senescence is a term coined by biogerontologist Caleb Finch to denote organisms that do not exhibit evidence of senescence (biological aging), such as measurable reductions in their reproductive capability, measurable functional decline, or rising death rates with age.\n\nThere are many examples of species for whose organisms scientists have not detected an increase in mortality rate after maturity. This may mean that the lifespan of the organism is so long that researchers' subjects have not yet lived up to the time when a measure of the species' longevity can be made. Turtles, for example, were once thought to lack senescence, but more extensive observations have found evidence of decreasing fitness with age.\n\nStudy of negligibly senescent animals may provide clues that lead to better understanding of the aging process and influence theories of aging. The phenomenon of negligible senescence in some animals is a traditional argument for attempting to achieve similar negligible senescence in humans by technological means.\n\nThere are also organisms that exhibit negative senescence, whereby mortality chronologically decreases as the organism ages, for all or part of the life cycle, in disagreement with the Gompertz–Makeham law of mortality (see also Late-life mortality deceleration). Furthermore, there are species that have been observed to regress to a larval state and regrow into adults multiple times, such as \"Turritopsis dohrnii\".\n\nRecent studies have indicated a connection between phenomena related to negligible senescence and the general stability of an organism's genome, specifically transcription processes, over its lifetime.\n\nSome fish, such as some varieties of sturgeon and rougheye rockfish, and some tortoises and turtles are thought to be negligibly senescent, although recent research on turtles has uncovered evidence of senescence in the wild. The age of a captured fish specimen can be measured by examining growth patterns similar to tree rings on the otoliths (parts of motion-sensing organs).\n\nIn plants, aspen trees are one example of biological immortality. Each individual tree can live for 40–150 years above ground, but the root system of the clonal colony is long-lived. In some cases, this is for thousands of years, sending up new trunks as the older trunks die off above ground. One such colony in Utah, given the nickname of \"Pando\", is estimated to be 80,000 years old, making it possibly the oldest living colony of aspens.\n\nThe world's oldest known living non-clonal organism was the Methuselah tree of the species \"Pinus longaeva\" growing high in the White Mountains of Inyo County in eastern California, aged years.\nThis record was superseded in 2012 by another Great Basin bristlecone pine located in the same region as Methuselah, and was estimated to be 5062 years old. The tree was sampled by Edmund Schulman and dated by Tom Harlan.\n\nAmong bacteria, individual organisms are vulnerable and can easily die, but on the level of the colony, bacteria can live indefinitely. The two daughter bacteria resulting from cell division of a parent bacterium can be regarded as unique individuals or as members of a biologically “immortal” colony. The two daughter cells can be regarded as “rejuvenated” copies of the parent cell because damaged macromolecules have been split between the two cells and diluted. See asexual reproduction.\n\nSome examples of maximum observed life span of animals thought to be negligibly senescent are:\nSome rare organisms, such as tardigrades, usually have short lifespans, but are able to survive for thousands of years — and, perhaps, indefinitely — if they enter into the state of cryptobiosis, whereby their metabolism is reversibly suspended. It is hypothesized by advocates of cryonics that the human central nervous system can be similarly put into a state of suspended animation shortly before brain death to be revived at a future point in the technological development of humankind when such operation would be possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "49601697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49601697", "title": "NicO transporters", "text": "NicO transporters\n\nThe Nickel/Cobalt Transporter (NicO) Family (TC# 2.A.113) is a member of the Lysine Exporter (LysE) Superfamily. A representative list of proteins belonging to the NicO family can be found in the Transporter Classification Database.\n\nHomologues of the NicO family have differing predicted topologies: 6, 7 and 8 TMSs. One such homologue, RcnA (YohM; TC# 2.A.113.1.1) of \"E. coli\" (274 aas) has 6 putative transmembrane segments (TMSs) in a 3 + 3 arrangement with a large hydrophilic loop between putativeTMSs 3 and 4. Several homologues of RcnA (e.g., RcnA homologue from \"Ralstonia solanacearum\"; TC# 2.A.113.1.3; CAD17703) have 7 putative TMSs (4 + 3). Still another homologue, UreH of \"Methanocaldococcus janaschii\" (TC# 2.A.113.1.4) has 6 putative TMSs in a more characteristic 3 + 3 TMS arrangement. The NicO family within the LysE superfamily may have a common origin with the TOG superfamily, having lost TMSs 1 and 4 in the 8 TMS TOG superfamily topology.\n\nThis protein is believed to catalyze Co and Ni efflux.\n\nThe overall reaction catalyzed by proteins of the NicO family is probably:\n\n[Ni or Co] (in) → [Ni or Co] (out).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15654888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15654888", "title": "Parallel metaheuristic", "text": "Parallel metaheuristic\n\nParallel metaheuristic is a class of techniques that are capable of reducing both the numerical effort and the run time of a metaheuristic. To this end, concepts and technologies from the field of parallelism in computer science are used to enhance and even completely modify the behavior of existing metaheuristics. Just as it exists a long list of metaheuristics like evolutionary algorithms, particle swarm, ant colony optimization, simulated annealing, etc. it also exists a large set of different techniques strongly or loosely based in these ones, whose behavior encompasses the multiple parallel execution of algorithm components that cooperate in some way to solve a problem on a given parallel hardware platform.\n\nIn practice, optimization (and searching, and learning) problems are often NP-hard, complex, and time consuming.\nTwo major approaches are traditionally used to tackle these problems: exact methods\nand metaheuristics. Exact methods allow to find exact solutions but are often impractical as they are\nextremely time-consuming for real-world problems (large dimension, hardly constrained, multimodal,\ntime-varying, epistatic problems). Conversely, metaheuristics provide sub-optimal (sometimes optimal)\nsolutions in a reasonable time. Thus, metaheuristics usually allow to meet the resolution delays imposed\nin the industrial field as well as they allow to study general problem classes instead that particular\nproblem instances. In general, many of the best performing techniques in precision and effort to solve\ncomplex and real-world problems are metaheuristics. Their fields of application range from combinatorial\noptimization, bioinformatics, and telecommunications to economics, software engineering, etc. These fields are full of many\ntasks needing fast solutions of high quality. See for more details on complex applications.\n\nMetaheuristics fall in two categories: trajectory-based metaheuristics and population-based metaheuristics. The main difference of these two kind of methods relies in the number of tentative\nsolutions used in each step of the (iterative) algorithm. A trajectory-based technique starts with a single\ninitial solution and, at each step of the search, the current solution is replaced by another (often the best)\nsolution found in its neighborhood. It is usual that trajectory-based metaheuristics allow to quickly find\na locally optimal solution, and so they are called exploitation-oriented methods promoting intensification\nin the search space. On the other hand, population-based algorithms make use of a population of solutions.\nThe initial population is in this case randomly generated (or created with a greedy algorithm),\nand then enhanced through an iterative process. At each generation of the process, the whole population\n(or a part of it) is replaced by newly generated individuals (often the best ones). These techniques are\ncalled exploration-oriented methods, since their main ability resides in the diversification in the search\nspace.\n\nMost basic metaheuristics are sequential. Although their utilization allows to significantly reduce\nthe temporal complexity of the search process, this latter remains high for real-world problems arising\nin both academic and industrial domains. Therefore, parallelism comes as a natural way not to only\nreduce the search time, but also to improve the quality of the provided solutions.\n\nFor a comprehensive discussion on how parallelism can be mixed with metaheuristics see .\n\nMetaheuristics for solving optimization problems could be viewed as \"walks through neighborhoods\"\ntracing search trajectories through the solution domains of the problem at hands:\n\nAlgorithm: \"Sequential trajectory-based general pseudo-code\"\nGenerate(\"s\"(0)); // Initial solution \n\"t\" := 0; // Numerical step \nwhile not Termination Criterion(s(t)) do \n...s′(\"t\") := SelectMove(s(\"t\")); // Exploration of the neighborhood \n...if AcceptMove(s′(\"t\")) then \n...s(\"t\") := ApplyMove(s′(\"t\")); \n...\"t\" := \"t\"+1; \nendwhile\n\nWalks are performed by iterative procedures that allow moving from one solution to another one in\nthe solution space (see the above algorithm). This kind of metaheuristics perform the moves in the neighborhood\nof the current solution, i.e., they have a perturbative nature. The walks start from a solution randomly\ngenerated or obtained from another optimization algorithm. At each iteration, the current solution\nis replaced by another one selected from the set of its neighboring candidates. The search process is\nstopped when a given condition is satisfied (a maximum number of generation, find a solution with a\ntarget quality, stuck for a given time, . . . ).\n\nA powerful way to achieve high computational efficiency with trajectory-based methods is the use of\nparallelism. Different parallel models have been proposed for trajectory-based metaheuristics, and three\nof them are commonly used in the literature: the parallel \"multi-start\" model, the parallel\nexploration and evaluation of the \"neighborhood\" (or parallel moves model), and the parallel \"evaluation\" of\na single solution (or move acceleration model):\n\n• Parallel multi-start model: It consists in simultaneously launching several trajectory-based\nmethods for computing better and robust solutions. They may be heterogeneous or homogeneous,\nindependent or cooperative, start from the same or different solution(s), and configured with the\nsame or different parameters.\n\n• Parallel moves model: It is a low-level master-slave model that does not alter the behavior of\nthe heuristic. A sequential search would compute the same result but slower. At the beginning\nof each iteration, the master duplicates the current solution between distributed nodes. Each one\nseparately manages their candidate/solution and the results are returned to the master.\n\n• Move acceleration model: The quality of each move is evaluated in a parallel centralized way.\nThat model is particularly interesting when the evaluation function can be itself parallelized as\nit is CPU time-consuming and/or I/O intensive. In that case, the function can be viewed as an\naggregation of a certain number of partial functions that can be run in parallel.\n\nPopulation-based metaheuristic are stochastic search techniques that have been successfully applied in many real and complex applications (epistatic, multimodal, multi-objective, and highly constrained problems).\nA population-based algorithm is an iterative technique that applies stochastic operators on a pool\nof individuals: the population (see the algorithm below). Every individual in the population is the encoded version of a tentative solution. An evaluation function associates a fitness value to every individual indicating its suitability to the problem. Iteratively, the probabilistic application of variation operators on selected individuals guides the population to tentative solutions of higher quality. The most well-known metaheuristic families based on the manipulation of a population of solutions are evolutionary algorithms (EAs), ant colony optimization (ACO), particle swarm optimization (PSO), scatter search (SS), differential evolution (DE), and estimation distribution algorithms (EDA).\n\nAlgorithm: \"Sequential population-based metaheuristic pseudo-code\" \nGenerate(P(0)); // Initial population \n\"t\" := 0; // Numerical step \nwhile not Termination Criterion(P(\"t\")) do \n...Evaluate(P(\"t\")); // Evaluation of the population \n...P′′(\"t\") := Apply Variation Operators(P′(\"t\")); // Generation of new solutions \n...P(\"t\" + 1) := Replace(P(\"t\"), P′′(\"t\")); // Building the next population \n...\"t\" := \"t\" + 1; \nendwhile\n\nFor non-trivial problems, executing the reproductive cycle of a simple population-based method on\nlong individuals and/or large populations usually requires high computational resources. In general, evaluating a \"fitness\" function for every individual is frequently the most costly operation of this algorithm.\nConsequently, a variety of algorithmic issues are being studied to design efficient techniques. These issues usually consist of defining new operators, hybrid algorithms, parallel models, and so on.\n\nParallelism arises naturally when dealing with populations, since each of the individuals belonging to it is an independent unit (at least according to the \"Pittsburg\" style, although there are other approaches like the \"Michigan\" one which do not consider the individual as independent units). Indeed, the performance of population-based algorithms is often improved when running in parallel. Two parallelizing strategies are specially focused on population-based algorithms:\n\n(1) Parallelization of computations, in which the operations commonly applied to each of the individuals are performed in parallel, and\n\n(2) Parallelization of population, in which the population is split in different parts that can be simply exchanged or evolved separately, and then joined later.\n\nIn the beginning of the parallelization history of these algorithms, the well-known master-slave (also known as \"global parallelization\" or \"farming\") method was used. In this approach, a central processor performs the selection operations while the associated slave processors (workers) run the variation operator and the evaluation of the fitness function. This algorithm has the same behavior as the sequential one, although its computational efficiency is improved, especially for time consuming objective functions. On the other hand, many researchers use a pool of processors to speed up the execution of a sequential algorithm, just because independent runs can be made more rapidly by using several processors than by using a single one. In this case, no interaction at all exists between the independent runs.\n\nHowever, actually most parallel population-based techniques found in the literature utilize some\nkind of spatial disposition for the individuals, and then parallelize the resulting chunks in a pool of processors. Among the most widely known types of structured metaheuristics, the distributed (or coarse grain) and cellular (or fine grain) algorithms are very popular optimization procedures.\n\nIn the case of distributed ones, the population is partitioned in a set of subpopulations (islands) in which isolated serial algorithms are executed. Sparse exchanges of individuals are performed among these islands with the goal of introducing some diversity into the subpopulations, thus preventing search of getting stuck in local optima. In order to design a distributed metaheuristic, we must take several decisions. Among them, a chief decision is to determine the migration policy: topology (logical links between the islands), migration rate (number of individuals that undergo migration in every exchange), migration frequency (number of steps in every subpopulation between two successive exchanges), and the selection/replacement of the migrants.\n\nIn the case of a cellular method, the concept of neighborhood is introduced, so that an individual\nmay only interact with its nearby neighbors in the breeding loop. The overlapped small neighborhood in the algorithm helps in exploring the search space because a slow diffusion of solutions through the population provides a kind of exploration, while exploitation takes place inside each neighborhood. See for more information on cellular Genetic Algorithms and related models.\n\nAlso, hybrid models are being proposed in which a two-level approach of parallelization is undertaken. In general, the higher level for parallelization is a coarse-grained implementation and the basic island performs a cellular, a master-slave method or even another distributed one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47796", "title": "Patience", "text": "Patience\n\nPatience (or forbearance) is the ability to endure difficult circumstances such as perseverance in the face of delay; tolerance of provocation without responding in annoyance/anger; or forbearance when under strain, especially when faced with longer-term difficulties. Patience is the level of endurance one can have before negativity. It is also used to refer to the character trait of being steadfast. Antonyms include and impetuousness.\n\nIn psychology and in cognitive neuroscience, patience is studied as a decision-making problem, involving the choice of either a small reward in the short-term, versus a more valuable reward in the long-term. When given a choice, all animals, humans included, are \"inclined\" to favour short-term rewards over long-term rewards. This is despite the often greater benefits associated with long-term rewards.\n\nIn 2005 a study involving common marmosets and cottontop tamarins, animals of both species faced a self-control paradigm in which individuals chose between taking an immediate small reward and waiting a variable amount of time for a large reward. Under these conditions, marmosets waited significantly longer for food than tamarins. This difference cannot be explained by life history, social behaviour or brain size. It can, however, be explained by feeding ecology: marmosets rely on gum, a food product acquired by waiting for exudate to flow from trees, whereas tamarins feed on insects, a food product requiring impulsive action. Foraging ecology, therefore, may provide a selective pressure for the evolution of self-control.\n\nPatience of human users in the online world has been the subject of much recent scientific research. In a 2012 study involving tens of millions of users who watched videos on the Internet, Krishnan and Sitaraman show that online users lose patience in as little as two seconds while waiting for their chosen video to start playing. The study also shows that users who are connected to the Internet at faster speeds are less patient than their counterparts connected at slower speeds, demonstrating a link between the human expectation of speed and human patience. These and other scientific studies of patience have led many social commentators to conclude that the rapid pace of technology is rewiring humans to be less and less patient.\n\nPatience and fortitude are prominent themes in Judaism. The Talmud extols patience as an important personal trait. The story of Micah, for example, is that he suffers many challenging conditions and yet endures, saying \"I will wait for the God who saves me.\" Patience in God, it is said, will aid believers in finding the strength to be delivered from the evils that are inherent in the physical life.\n\nIn the Hebrew Torah, patience is referred to in several proverbs, such as \"The patient man shows much good sense, but the quick-tempered man displays folly at its height\" (Proverbs 14:29, NAB); \"An ill-tempered man stirs up strife, but a patient man allays discord.\" (Proverbs 15:18, NAB); and \"A patient man is better than a warrior, and he who rules his temper, than he who takes a city.\" (Proverbs 16:32). The emotion is also discussed in other sections, such as Ecclesiastes: \"Better is the patient spirit than the lofty spirit. Do not in spirit become quickly discontented, for discontent lodges in the bosom of a fool.\" (Ecclesiastes 7:8-9, NAB).\n\nIn the Christian religion, patience is one of the most valuable virtues of life. Increasing patience is viewed as the work of the Holy Ghost in the Christian who has accepted the gift of salvation. While patience is not one of the traditional biblical three theological virtues nor one of the traditional cardinal virtues, it is part of the fruit of the Holy Spirit, according to the Apostle Paul in his Epistle to the Galatians.\n\nIn the Christian Bible, patience is referred to in several sections. The Book of Proverbs notes that \"through patience a ruler can be persuaded, and a gentle tongue can break a bone\" (Proverbs 25:14-16, NIV); Ecclesiastes points out that the \"end of a matter is better than its beginning, and patience is better than pride\" (Ecclesiastes 7:7-9, NIV); and 1 Thessalonians states that we should \"be patient with all. See that no one returns evil for evil; rather, always seek what is good for each other and for all\" (1 Thessalonians 5:14-15, NAB). In the Epistle of James, the Bible urges Christians to be patient, and \" see how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth...until it receives the early and the late rains.\" (James 5:7-11, NAB). In Galatians, patience is listed as part of the \"fruit of the Spirit\": \"love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law\". (Galatians 5:21-23, NIV). In Timothy, the Bible states that \"Jesus might display his unlimited patience as an example for those who would believe on him and receive eternal life\".(1 Timothy 1:15-17, NIV).\n\nPatience with steadfast belief in Allah is called \"sabr\" (), one of the best virtues of life in Islam. Through sabr, a Muslim believes that an individual can grow closer to God and thus attain true peace. It is also stressed in Islam, that Allah is with those who are patient, more specifically during calamity and suffering. Several verses in Quran urge Muslims to seek Allah's help when faced with fear and loss, with patient prayers and perseverance for Allah. For example:\n\nSimilarly, patience is mentioned in hadith Sahih Bukhari:\n\nIn Islamic tradition,(\"Ayyoob\") illustrates a story where he demonstrated patience and steadfast belief in Allah. Ibn Kathir narrates the story in the following manner: Job was a very rich person with much land, and many animals and children — all of which were lost and soon he was struck with disease as a test from Allah. He remained steadfast and patient in his prayers to Allah, so Allah eventually relieved him of the disease, gave him double the money he lost, and raised to life twice the number of children who had died before him.\n\nIn Buddhism, patience (Skt.: \"kshanti\"; Pali: \"khanti\") is one of the \"perfections\" (\"paramitas\") that a bodhisattva trains in and practices to realize perfect enlightenment (\"bodhi\"). The Buddhist concept of patience is distinct from the English definition of the word. In Buddhism, patience refers to not returning harm, rather than merely enduring a difficult situation. It is the ability to control one's emotions even when being criticized or attacked. In verse 184 of the Dhammapada it is said that 'enduring patience is the highest austerity'.\n\nPatience and forbearance is considered an essential virtue in Hinduism. In ancient literature of Hinduism, the concept of patience is referred to with the word \"pariksaha\" (patience and forbearance, Sanskrit: परिषहा), and several other words such as sahiṣṇutā (patient toleration, Sanskrit: सहिष्णुता), \"titiksha\" (forbearance, Sanskrit: तितिक्षा), \"sah\" or \"sahanshilata\" (suffer with patience, Sanskrit: सह, सहनशीलता) and several others.\n\nPatience, in Hindu philosophy, is the cheerful endurance of trying conditions and the consequence of one's action and deeds (karma). It is also the capacity to wait, endure opposites - such as pain and pleasure, cold and heat, sorrows and joys - calmly, without anxiety, and without a desire to seek revenge. In interpersonal relationships, virtuous \"titiksha\" means that if someone attacks or insults without cause, one must endure it without feeling enmity, anger, resentment or anxiety. The concept of patience is explained as being more than trust, and as a value that reflects the state of one's body and mind. The term \"pariksaha\" is sometimes also translated as test or exam, in other contexts. Some of these concepts have been carried into the spiritual understanding of yoga. Sandilya Upanishad of Hinduism identifies ten sources of patience and forbearances: Ahimsa, Satya, Asteya, Brahmacharya, Daya, Arjava, Kshama, Dhriti, Mitahara and Saucha. In each of these ten forbearances, the virtuous implicit belief is that our current spirit and the future for everyone, including oneself, will be stronger if these forbearances are one's guide. Each source of those ten pariksaha (patience and forbearances) are:\n\n\nThe classical literature of Hinduism exists in many Indian languages. For example, \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" written between 200 BC and 400 AD, and sometimes called the Tamil Veda, is one of the most cherished classics on Hinduism written in a South Indian language. It too discusses patience and forbearance, dedicating Chapter 16 of Book 1 to it. \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" suggests \"patience\" is necessary for an ethical life and one's long term happiness, even if patience is sometimes difficult in the short term. Some of the verse excerpts from this book are: \"our conduct must always foster forbearance\"; \"one must patiently endure rude remarks, because it delivers us to purity\"; \"if we are unjustly wronged by others, it is best to conquer our hurt with patience, accept suffering, and refrain from unrighteous retaliation\"; \"it is good to patiently endure injuries done to you, but to forget them is even better\"; \"just as the Earth bears those who dig into her, one must with patience bear with those who despise us\", and so on.\n\nThe spiritual teacher Meher Baba stated that \"[O]ne of the first requirements of the [spiritual] aspirant is that he should combine \"unfailing enthusiasm with unyielding patience\"...Spiritual effort demands not only physical endurance and courage, but also unshrinking forbearance and unassailable moral courage.\"\n\nIn \"Human, All Too Human\", philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche argued that \"being able to wait is so hard that the greatest poets did not disdain to make the inability to wait the theme of their poetry.\" He notes that \"Passion will not wait\", and gives the example of cases of duels, in which the \"advising friends have to determine whether the parties involved might be able to wait a while longer. If they cannot, then a duel is reasonable [because]...to wait would be to continue suffering the horrible torture of offended honor...\".\n\nImpatience is not just the opposite of patience or the lack of it, it is more than that. Impatience is also a cultural phenomenon in many respects. There are deep-rooted psychological and social reasons for both feelings of and displays of impatience.\n\nThe term 'road rage' is commonly used to refer to situations that are the result of some form of impatience, though of course there can be other factors involved. This phrase refers to circumstances where one or both drivers get into a confrontation in which they are emotionally involved. Driving anywhere in the world can be frustrating. However, attitudes towards annoying circumstances vary widely from one place to another. Excessive honking, as a further example of impatience, is very common in some countries, but not so much in others.\n\nBehavior in restaurants and other public places is another example. People can often be rude and impatient toward other patrons, as well as to the staff serving customers. Although a customer may have legitimate complaints about something, there is really no justification to be difficult about it. On the other hand, there is no reason for staff to be surly or curt with customers, but it does happen, all too often.\n\nTelephone service and support is another situation where customers can become impatient with company representatives. This may partly be the result of changes in how these support services work. In an effort to save expense costs, many organizations have automated part of all of these services. This starts off the process, in the customer's view, on a somewhat unpleasant note. By the time the client has maneuvered their way through the system, including being on hold for a significant length of time, and sometimes eventually reaching the wrong person for whatever reason, the customer is understandably upset.\n\nImpatience is usually viewed as a negative thing. Patience should not be confused with laziness, complacency or inaptitude. Laziness is lacking a desire to fix a certain problem or complete a job. Laziness means that one's desire to do other things than a given task outweighs the desire to do that particular task. This is not the same as being patient with a process.\n\nThe Perl programming culture has famously declared Impatience to be a virtue.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23437814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23437814", "title": "Product quality risk in supply chain", "text": "Product quality risk in supply chain\n\nProduct quality risk in supply chain focuses on the quality problems in the supply chain context rather in the manufacturing quality context.\n\nTse and Tan (2009) identified the concept of “Product Quality Risk in Supply Chain” as:\n\n\"Inherent quality problems (i.e. raw materials / ingredients / production / logistics / packaging) in any of the supply members trigger a domino effect that spread through a multi-tier supply network. For this reason, it is hard for a network member to keep track of who did what, and when, to the final quality of the products. The product that a focal firm sells to the consumer comprises components made by the focal firm and the suppliers. When the product breaks down due to defects in either the firm’s component or the supplier’s component, the firm has to bear the consequences.\"\n\nThus, product quality risk is an inherent part of the supply chain risks. In other words, it tends to comprise some or all of the risk elements, such as operational risk, disruption risk and reputational risk. For example, when lead was found in their toys, it tarnished Mattel’s reputation, and disrupted the supply of its products in the market.\n\nIn the literature, the concept of product quality risk has not been fully investigated. Although Zsidisim (2003) stated that quality risk includes the risk of producing unsafe products that can harm the consumer, even when these defects are caused by another firm or inherited from a sub-contractor. However, neither PQR nor its domino effect in the supply chain have been thoroughly studied.\n\nThe product quality risk in global supply chain concept, though similar to “product harm crisis” (defined as defective or dangerous products) (Dawar & Pillutla, 2000) and “moral hazard problem” (defined as the outcome of asymmetric information, imperfect observability in supplier’s quality) (Hwang et al., 2006), are not about the risk of product quality in a global supply chain context.\n"}
{"id": "33436462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33436462", "title": "Rhoda Delaval", "text": "Rhoda Delaval\n\nRhoda Delaval Astley (1 July 1725 – 1757) was an English aristocrat and artist. She was married to Edward Astley, with whom she had a daughter and three sons. Lady Astley studied painting with Arthur Pond, who painted her portrait. Seaton Delaval Hall passed from the Delaval family to the Astley family through her descendants.\n\nRhoda Delaval was born on 1 July 1725 to Captain Francis Blake Delaval (the elder) and Rhoda Apreece and baptized at St George's, Hanover Square in London on 22 July 1725. She was their oldest daughter of 12 children. Her siblings were Anne Hussey, Mary Elizabeth, Sarah, Robert, George, Henry, Ralph, Francis, Edward, Thomas, John. Two years after her birth, her brother, Sir Francis Blake Delaval (the younger) (1727–1771) was born. A brother George, who died as a young adult, also pursued the art of painting with her instructor, Arthur Pond. She was known to be a talented, beautiful woman. One of her sisters was Sarah, Countess of Mexborough.\n\nOn 23 May 1751, she married Edward Astley, who became the 4th Baronet of Melton Constable. They lived at 11 Downing Street when in London. Astley gave birth to four children, one daughter and three sons. Editha Rhoda was born 14 April 1755 and died by 12 May, when she was brought to be buried. Edward was born and died by 1757 and Francis was born in 1757. Jacob Henry was born 12 September 1756.\n\nShe died in 1757 following the birth of Francis and was buried 21 October 1757 at Widcombe, Bath with her son Edward and daughter Edith Rhoda at a church near the manor.\n\nEdward Astley lived at Melton Constable with his children after her death. Her letters, before and after her marriage, describe the personal daily lives of the people she knew in Northumberland. As the result of Edward and Rhoda's marriage, Seaton Delaval Hall came into the Astley family in 1814 through Jacob, when none of her brothers produced a male heir.\n\nPeriodically between 1744 and 1750, Astley studied art under Arthur Pond, who also painted her portrait. She purchased prints for about £1,500 () from Pond.\n\nThe National Portrait Gallery has the painting of her drawing with pastels. Her painting of Sir Jacob Astley, 1st Baron Astley of Reading was made from a 17th-century original painting. She made a painting of herself and her brother entitled \"Painting and Poetry\", patterned after Bernardino Luini. The painting of Anne Hussey Delaval (1737–1812), Lady Stanhope in the National Trust is attributed to Rhoda Delaval and is loan by Lord Hastings. Lady Anne Delaval Stanhope was Astley's sister. She had been commissioned, for a total of about £300 (), to paint portraits of her sisters and brothers.\n\nJames MacArdell made an engraving of her self-portrait. In 1756, her portrait was painted by Joshua Reynolds and the painting was at Ford Castle in 1897. Another painting of her is in Doddington Hall, Lincolnshire.\n"}
{"id": "1903855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903855", "title": "Sensory substitution", "text": "Sensory substitution\n\nSensory substitution is a change of the characteristics of one sensory modality into stimuli of another sensory modality.\n\nA sensory substitution system consists of three parts: a sensor, a coupling system, and a stimulator. The sensor records stimuli and gives them to a coupling system which interprets these signals and transmits them to a stimulator. In case the sensor obtains signals of a kind not originally available to the bearer it is a case of sensory augmentation. Sensory substitution concerns human perception and the plasticity of the human brain; and therefore, allows us to study these aspects of neuroscience more through neuroimaging.\n\nIt is hoped that sensory substitution systems can help people by restoring their ability to perceive certain defective sensory modality by using sensory information from a functioning sensory modality.\n\nThe idea of sensory substitution was introduced in the '60s by Paul Bach-y-Rita as a means of using one sensory modality, mainly taction, to gain environmental information to be used by another sensory modality, mainly vision. Thereafter, the entire field was discussed by Chaim-Meyer Scheff in \"Experimental model for the study of changes in the organization of human sensory information processing through the design and testing of non-invasive prosthetic devices for sensory impaired people\". The first sensory substitution system was developed by Bach-y-Rita et al. as a means of brain plasticity in congenitally blind individuals. After this historic invention, sensory substitution has been the basis of many studies investigating perceptive and cognitive neuroscience. Since then, sensory substitution has contributed to the study of brain function, human cognition and rehabilitation.\n\nWhen a person becomes blind or deaf they generally do not lose the ability to hear or see; they simply lose their ability to transmit the sensory signals from the periphery (retina for visions and cochlea for hearing) to brain. Since the vision processing pathways are still intact, a person who has lost the ability to retrieve data from the retina can still see subjective images by using data gathered from other sensory modalities such as touch or audition.\n\nIn a regular visual system, the data collected by the retina is converted into an electrical stimulus in the optic nerve and relayed to the brain, which re-creates the image and perceives it. Because it is the brain that is responsible for the final perception, sensory substitution is possible. During sensory substitution an intact sensory modality relays information to the visual perception areas of the brain so that the person can perceive sight. With sensory substitution, information gained from one sensory modality can reach brain structures physiologically related to other sensory modalities. Touch-to-visual sensory substitution transfers information from touch receptors to the visual cortex for interpretation and perception. For example, through fMRI, one can determine which parts of the brain are activated during sensory perception. In blind persons, it is seen that while they are only receiving tactile information, their visual cortex is also activated as they perceive \"sight\" objects. Touch-to-touch sensory substitution is also possible, wherein information from touch receptors of one region of the body can be used to perceive touch in another region. For example, in one experiment by Bach-y-Rita,touch perception was able to be restored in a patient who lost peripheral sensation due to leprosy.\n\nIn order to achieve sensory substitution and stimulate the brain without intact sensory organs to relay the information, machines can be used to do the signal transduction, rather than the sensory organs. This brain–machine interface collects external signals and transforms them into electrical signals for the brain to interpret. Generally, a camera or a microphone is used to collect visual or auditory stimuli that are used to replace lost sight and hearing, respectively. The visual or auditory data collected from the sensors is transformed into tactile stimuli that are then relayed to the brain for visual and auditory perception. This and all types of sensory substitution are only possible due to neuroplasticity.\n\n\"Brain plasticity\" refers to the brain's ability to adapt to a changing environment, for instance to the absence or deterioration of a sense. It is conceivable that cortical remapping or reorganization in response to the loss of one sense may be an evolutionary mechanism that allows people to adapt and compensate by using other senses better. Functional imaging of congenitally blind patients showed a cross-modal recruitment of the occipital cortex during perceptual tasks such as Braille reading, tactile perception, tactual object recognition, sound localization, and sound discrimination. This may suggest that blind people can use their occipital lobe, generally used for vision, to perceive objects through the use of other sensory modalities. This cross modal plasticity may explain the often described tendency of blind people to show enhanced ability in the other senses.\n\nWhile considering the physiological aspects of sensory substitution, it is essential to distinguish between sensing and perceiving. The general question posed by this differentiation is: Are blind people seeing or \"perceiving\" to see by putting together different sensory data? While sensation comes in one modality – visual, auditory, tactile etc. – perception due to sensory substitution is not one modality but a result of cross-modal interactions. It is therefore concluded that while sensory substitution for vision induces visual-like perception in \"sighted\" individuals, it induces auditory or tactile perception in \"blind\" individuals. In short, blind people \"perceive\" to see through touch and audition with sensory substitution.\n\nApplications are not restricted to handicapped persons, but also include artistic presentations, games, and augmented reality. Some examples are substitution of visual stimuli to audio or tactile, and of audio stimuli to tactile. Some of the most popular are probably Paul Bach-y-Rita's Tactile Vision Sensory Substitution (TVSS), developed with Carter Collins at Smith-Kettlewell Institute and Peter Meijer's Seeing with Sound approach (The vOICe). Technical developments, such as miniaturization and electrical stimulation help the advance of sensory substitution devices.\n\nIn sensory substitution systems, we generally have sensors that collect the data from the external environment. This data is then relayed to a coupling system that interprets and transduces the information and then replays it to a stimulator. This stimulator ultimately stimulates a functioning sensory modality. After training, people learn to use the information gained from this stimulation to experience a perception of the sensation they lack instead of the actually stimulated sensation. For example, a leprosy patient, whose perception of peripheral touch was restored, was equipped with a glove containing artificial contact sensors coupled to skin sensory receptors on the forehead (which was stimulated). After training and acclimation, the patient was able to experience data from the glove as if it was originating in the fingertips while ignoring the sensations in the forehead.\n\nTo understand \"tactile sensory substitution\" it is essential to understand some basic physiology of the tactile receptors of the skin. There are five basic types of tactile receptors: Pacinian corpuscle, Meissner's corpuscle, Ruffini endings, Merkel nerve endings, and free nerve endings. These receptors are mainly characterized by which type of stimuli best activates them, and by their rate of adaptation to sustained stimuli. Because of the rapid adaptation of some of these receptors to sustained stimuli, those receptors require rapidly changing tactile stimulation systems in order to be optimally activated. Among all these mechanoreceptors Pacinian corpuscle offers the highest sensitivity to high frequency vibration starting from few 10s of Hz to a few kHz with the help of its specialized mechanotransduction mechanism.\n\nThere have been two different types of stimulators: electrotactile or vibrotactile. Electrotactile stimulators use direct electrical stimulation of the nerve ending in the skin to initiate the action potentials; the sensation triggered, burn, itch, pain, pressure etc. depends on the stimulating voltage. Vibrotactile stimulators use pressure and the properties of the mechanoreceptors of the skin to initiate action potentials. There are advantages and disadvantages for both these stimulation systems. With the electrotactile stimulating systems a lot of factors affect the sensation triggered: stimulating voltage, current, waveform, electrode size, material, contact force, skin location, thickness and hydration. Electrotactile stimulation may involve the direct stimulation of the nerves (percutaneous), or through the skin (transcutaneous). Percutaneous application causes additional distress to the patient, and is a major disadvantage of this approach. Furthermore, stimulation of the skin without insertion leads to the need for high voltage stimulation because of the high impedance of the dry skin, unless the tongue is used as a receptor, which requires only about 3% as much voltage. This latter technique is undergoing clinical trials for various applications, and been approved for assistance to the blind in the UK. Alternatively, the roof of the mouth has been proposed as another area where low currents can be felt.\n\nElectrostatic arrays are explored as human-computer interaction devices for touch screens. These are based on a phenomenon called electrovibration, which allows microamperre-level currents to be felt as roughness on a surface.\n\nVibrotactile systems use the properties of mechanoreceptors in the skin so they have fewer parameters that need to be monitored as compared to electrotactile stimulation. However, vibrotactile stimulation systems need to account for the rapid adaptation of the tactile sense.\n\nAnother important aspect of tactile sensory substitution systems is the location of the tactile stimulation. Tactile receptors are abundant on the fingertips, face, and tongue while sparse on the back, legs and arms. It is essential to take into account the spatial resolution of the receptor as it has a major effect on the resolution of the sensory substitution. A high resolution pin-arrayed display is able to present spatial information via tactile symbols, such as city maps and obstacle maps.\n\nBelow you can find some descriptions of current tactile substitution systems.\n\nOne of the earliest and most well known form of sensory substitution devices was Paul Bach-y-Rita's TVSS that converted the image from a video camera into a tactile image and coupled it to the tactile receptors on the back of his blind subject. Recently, several new systems have been developed that interface the tactile image to tactile receptors on different areas of the body such as the on the chest, brow, fingertip, abdomen, and forehead. The tactile image is produced by hundreds of activators placed on the person. The activators are solenoids of one millimeter diameter. In experiments, blind (or blindfolded) subjects equipped with the TVSS can learn to detect shapes and to orient themselves. In the case of simple geometric shapes, it took around 50 trials to achieve 100 percent correct recognition. To identify objects in different orientations requires several hours of learning.\n\nA system using the tongue as the human-machine interface is most practical. The tongue-machine interface is both protected by the closed mouth and the saliva in the mouth provides a good electrolytic environment that ensures good electrode contact. Results from a study by Bach-y-Rita et al. show that electrotactile stimulation of the tongue required 3% of the voltage required to stimulate the finger. Also, since it is more practical to wear an orthodontic retainer holding the stimulation system than an apparatus strapped to other parts of the body, the tongue-machine interface is more popular among TVSS systems.\n\nThis tongue TVSS system works by delivering electrotactile stimuli to the dorsum of the tongue via a flexible electrode array placed in the mouth. This electrode array is connected to a Tongue Display Unit [TDU] via a ribbon cable passing out of the mouth. A video camera records a picture, transfers it to the TDU for conversion into a tactile image. The tactile image is then projected onto the tongue via the ribbon cable where the tongue's receptors pick up the signal. After training, subjects are able to associate certain types of stimuli to certain types of visual images. In this way, tactile sensation can be used for visual perception.\n\nSensory substitutions have also been successful with the emergence of wearable haptic actuators like vibrotactile motors, solenoids, peltier diodes, etc. At the Center for Cognitive Ubiquitous Computing at Arizona State University, researchers have developed technologies that enable people who are blind to perceive social situational information using wearable vibrotactile belts (Haptic Belt) and gloves (VibroGlove). Both technologies use miniature cameras that are mounted on a pair of glasses worn by the user who is blind. The Haptic Belt provides vibrations that convey the direction and distance at which a person is standing in front of a user, while the VibroGlove uses spatio-temporal mapping of vibration patterns to convey facial expressions of the interaction partner. Alternatively, it has been shown that even very simple cues indicating the presence or absence of obstacles (through small vibration modules located at strategic places in the body) can be useful for navigation, gait stabilization and reduced anxiety when evolving in an unknown space. This approach, called the \"Haptic Radar\" has been studied since 2005 by researchers at the University of Tokyo in collaboration with the University of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nWhile there are no tactile–auditory substitution systems currently available, recent experiments by Schurmann et al. show that tactile senses can activate the human auditory cortex. Currently vibrotactile stimuli can be used to facilitate hearing in normal and hearing-impaired people. To test for the auditory areas activated by touch, Schurmann et al. tested subjects while stimulating their fingers and palms with vibration bursts and their fingertips with tactile pressure. They found that tactile stimulation of the fingers lead to activation of the auditory belt area, which suggests that there is a relationship between audition and tactition. Therefore, future research can be done to investigate the likelihood of a tactile–auditory sensory substitution system. One promising invention is the 'Sense organs synthesizer' which aims at delivering a normal hearing range of nine octaves via 216 electrodes to sequential touch nerve zones, next to the spine.\n\nSome people with balance disorders or adverse reactions to antibiotics suffer from bilateral vestibular damage (BVD). They experience difficulty maintaining posture, unstable gait, and oscillopsia. Tyler et al. studied the restitution of postural control through a tactile for vestibular sensory substitution. Because BVD patients cannot integrate visual and tactile cues, they have a lot of difficulty standing. Using a head-mounted accelerometer and a brain-machine interface that employs electrotactile stimulation on the tongue, information about head-body orientation was relayed to the patient so that a new source of data is available to orient themselves and maintain good posture.\n\nTouch to touch sensory substitution is where information from touch receptors of one region can be used to perceive touch in another. For example, in one experiment by Bach-y-Rita, the touch perception was restored in a patient who lost peripheral sensation from leprosy. For example, this leprosy patient was equipped with a glove containing artificial contact sensors coupled to skin sensory receptors on the forehead (which was stimulated). After training and acclimation, the patient was able to experience data from the glove as if it was originating in the fingertips while ignoring the sensations in the forehead. After two days of training one of the leprosy subjects reported \"the wonderful sensation of touching his wife, which he had been unable to experience for 20 years.\"\n\nThe development of new technologies has now made it plausible to provide patients with prosthetic arms with tactile and kinesthetic sensibilities. While this is not purely a sensory substitution system, it uses the same principles to restore perception of senses. Some tactile feedback methods of restoring a perception of touch to amputees would be direct or micro stimulation of the tactile nerve afferents.\n\nOther applications of sensory substitution systems can be seen in function robotic prostheses for patients with high level quadriplegia. These robotic arms have several mechanisms of slip detection, vibration and texture detection that they relay to the patient through feedback. After more research and development, the information from these arms can be used by patients to perceive that they are holding and manipulating objects while their robotic arm actually accomplishes the task.\n\nAuditory sensory substitution systems like the tactile sensory substitution systems aim to use one sensory modality to compensate for the lack of another in order to gain a perception of one that is lacking. With auditory sensory substitution, visual or tactile sensors detect and store information about the external environment. This information is then transformed by brain-machine interfaces into auditory signals that are relayed via the auditory receptors to the brain.\n\nAuditory vision substitution aims to use the sense of hearing to convey visual information to the blind.\n\nThe vOICe Auditory Display Technology is one of several approaches towards sensory substitution (vision substitution) for the blind that aims to provide synthetic vision analogous to seeing their surroundings using sound waves by means of a non-invasive visual prosthesis.\n\nThe vOICe converts live camera views from a video camera into soundscapes, patterns of scores of different tones at different volumes and pitches emitted simultaneously. This system uses general video to audio mapping by associating height to pitch and brightness with loudness in a left-to-right scan of any video frame. Views are typically refreshed about once per second with a typical image resolution of up to 60 x 60 pixels as can be proven by spectrographic analysis.\n\nNeuroscience and psychology research indicate recruitment of relevant brain areas in seeing with sound, as well as functional improvement through training.\n\nThe ultimate goal is to provide synthetic vision with truly visual sensations by exploiting the neural plasticity of the human brain. The system does not require any surgery. Its interface to the mind is simply headphones. Over time with practice, the processing within the brain is gradually sent down to the subconscious levels and becomes automatic.\n\nNeuroscience research has shown that the visual cortex of even adult blind people can become responsive to sound, and \"seeing with sound\" might reinforce this in a visual sense with live video from a head-mounted camera encoded in sound. The extent to which cortical plasticity indeed allows for functionally relevant rewiring or remapping of the human brain is still largely unknown and is being investigated in an open collaboration with research partners around the world.\n\nOne suggestion for increasing the relative efficiency of the resulting visual stimuli is to adjust the visual field by using an accelerometer to provide a steady image even if the head is moved, which is implemented in its Android edition. Connecting an infrared sensor to adjust the camera position to match eye movements is an option for the Windows edition (though affordable mobile eye-trackers are not yet on the market).\n\nThe technology of the vOICe was invented in the 1990s by Peter Meijer. It has been positively and widely reviewed in media and also in various high-quality peer-reviewed scientific journals, far extensive than those partially referenced in the current section, and maintained by the inventor's website itself.\n\nUnlike other models and prototypes aiming to do this particular task, this project is developed within a budget of 4 US dollars, and is aimed for the vast majority of partially or fully blind people living in developing and underdeveloped countries, who can't access equipment worth hundreds of dollars.\n\nProject BATEYE uses an ultrasonic sensor mounted on to a wearable pair of glasses that measures the distance to the nearest object and relays it to an Arduino board. The Arduino board then processes the measurements and then plays a tone (150–15000 Hz) for the respective distance(2 cm to 4m) till the data from the second ultrasonic pulse (distance) comes in, and then the same process gets repeated. This cycle is repeated almost every 5 milliseconds. The person hears sound that changes according to the distance to the nearest object. The head provides a 195-degree swivel angle and the ultrasonic sensor detects anything within a 15-degree angle. Using systematic, cognitive and computational approach of neuroscience, with the hypothesis that the usage of the occipital lobe of blind people goes into processing other sensory feedback, and using the brain as a computational unit, the machine relies on the brain processing the tone produced every 14 mS to its corresponding distance and producing a soundscape corresponding to the tones and the body navigating using the same.During experimentation, the test subject could detect obstacles as far away as 2 – 3m, with horizontal or vertical movements of the head the blindfolded test subject could understand the basic shape of objects without touching them, and the basic nature of the obstacles.\n\nPrimarily, this research is open sourced and published (see: [Debargha Ganguly. (2016); DEVELOPING AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM THAT CAN GIVE A BLIND PERSON BASIC SPATIAL AWARENESS AND OBJECT IDENTIFICATION. Int. J. of Adv. Res. 4 (11). 2003–2008] (ISSN 2320-5407).\n\nThis is a part of the currently undertaken research by Debargha Ganguly, known as Project Basics – an effort to improve the basic standard of living of people of developing and underdeveloped countries, which has also included Project Awaaz – developing a low cost, non-movement restrictive plugin for hand movement to speech conversion.\n\nThe EyeMusic, represents high locations on the image as high-pitched musical notes on a pentatonic scale, and low vertical locations as low-pitched musical notes on a pentatonic scale. The user wears a miniature camera connected to a small computer (or smartphone) and stereo headphones. The images are converted into \"soundscapes\", using a predictable algorithm, allowing the user to listen to and then interpret the visual information coming from the camera.\n\nThe EyeMusic conveys color information by using different musical instruments for each of the following five colors: white, blue, red, green, yellow; Black is represented by silence. The EyeMusic currently employs an intermediate resolution of 30×50 pixels. \nAn auditory cue is sounded at the beginning of each left-to-right scan of the image. (1) the higher musical notes represent pixels that are located higher on the y-axis of an image, (2) the timing of the sound after the cue indicates the x-axis location of the pixel (that is, an object located on the left of the image will be \"sounded\" earlier on than an object located further on the right), and (3) different colors are represented by different musical instruments. \nIn addition, subjects who used the EyeMusic dynamically were able to accurately reach for an object perceived via the SSD.\n\nThis project, presented in 2015, proposes a new versatile mobile device and a sonification method specifically designed to the pedestrian locomotion of the visually impaired. It sonifies in real-time spatial information from a video stream acquired at a standard frame rate. The device is composed of a miniature camera integrated into a glasses frame which is connected to a battery-powered minicomputer worn around the neck with a strap. The audio signal is transmitted to the user via running headphones. This system has two operating modes. With the first mode, when the user is static, only the edges of the moving objects are sonified. With the second mode, when the user is moving, the edges of both static and moving objects are sonified. Thus, the video stream is simplified by extracting only the edges of objects that can become dangerous obstacles. The system enables the localization of moving objects, the estimation of trajectories, and the detection of approaching objects.\n\nAnother successful visual-to-auditory sensory substitution device is the Prosthesis Substituting Vision for Audition (PSVA). This system utilizes a head-mounted TV camera that allows real-time, online translation of visual patterns into sound. While the patient moves around, the device captures visual frames at a high frequency and generates the corresponding complex sounds that allow recognition. Visual stimuli are transduced into auditory stimuli with the use of a system that uses pixel to frequency relationship and couples a rough model of the human retina with an inverse model of the cochlea.\n\nThe sound produced by this software is a mixture of sinusoidal sounds produced by virtual \"sources\", corresponding each to a \"receptive field\" in the image. Each receptive field is a set of localized pixels. The sound's amplitude is determined by the mean luminosity of the pixels of the corresponding receptive field. The frequency and the inter-aural disparity are determined by the center of gravity of the co-ordinates of the receptive field's pixels in the image (see \"There is something out there: distal attribution in sensory substitution, twenty years later\"; Auvray M., Hanneton S., Lenay C., O'Regan K. Journal of Integrative Neuroscience 4 (2005) 505-21). The Vibe is an Open Source project hosted by Sourceforge.\n\nOther approaches to the substitution of hearing for vision use binaural directional cues, much as natural human echolocation does. An example of the latter approach is the \"SeeHear\" chip from Caltech.\n\nOther visual-auditory substitution devices deviate from the vOICe's greyscale mapping of images. Zach Capalbo's Kromophone uses a basic color spectrum correlating to different sounds and timbres to give users perceptual information beyond the vOICe's capabilities.\n\nBy means of stimulating electrodes implanted into the human nervous system, it is possible to apply current pulses to be learned and reliably recognized by the recipient. It has been shown successfully in experimentation, by Kevin Warwick, that signals can be employed from force/touch indicators on a robot hand as a means of communication.\n\nIt has been argued that the term \"substitution\" is misleading, as it is merely an \"addition\" or \"supplementation\" not a substitution of a sensory modality.\n\nBuilding upon the research conducted on sensory substitution, investigations into the possibility of \"augmenting\" the body's sensory apparatus are now beginning. The intention is to extend the body's ability to sense aspects of the environment that are not normally perceivable by the body in its natural state.\n\nActive work in this direction is being conducted by, among others, the e-sense project of the Open University and Edinburgh University, and the feelSpace project of the University of Osnabrück.\n\nThe findings of research into sensory augmentation (as well as sensory substitution in general) that investigate the emergence of perceptual experience (qualia) from the activity of neurons have implications for the understanding of consciousness.\n\nIn 2005, the feelSpace group conducted a study of sensory augmentation with a vibrotactile magnetic compass belt worn around the waist. In this study, the participants were provided with the direction of magnetic north as a vibration on their waist.\n\nSignificant performance improvements in navigational tests were observed (over and above those experienced by control subjects during the same period with the same training) and, for half of the participants, the perception of the belt's vibration underwent a profound change from simple tactile innervation to approach a genuine and direct sense of allocentric orientation: in other words, could \"perceive\" north as an entity distinct from the vibrating transducer on the waist, like one perceives a glass on a table as an entity distinct from the impact of reflected photons on the retina. Further, tests of the influence of the belt information on the rotational nystagmus effect suggested that, after training, the processing of the belt information became subcognitive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44166350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44166350", "title": "Serena Shim", "text": "Serena Shim\n\nSerena Shim (, \"Serena Ali Suhaim\"; October 10, 1985 – October 19, 2014) was an American journalist for Press TV. While covering the Siege of Kobanê as a war correspondent, she was allegedly murdered in a car crash. Her employer called the accident \"suspicious\" as she was killed two days after Turkey allegedly accused her of spying.\n\nSerena Shim, an American citizen of Lebanese origin, was born as the daughter of Judith Poe and her Lebanese father in 1985. She was raised in Dearborn and Livonia and her family lived in Detroit, Michigan, United States. As a child, she attended Lowrey Elementary School in Dearborn and later went to Clarenceville High School in Livonia. She attended college at the American University of Science and Technology, Beirut, Lebanon. She was married to Ibrihim Shim and the couple had a son and a daughter.\n\nShim was 29 years old when she was killed in Turkey. Her funeral ceremony was held on October 22 in a hussainia in Bourj el-Barajneh before she was buried in a cemetery in the same district. A memorial service was held in Dearborn.\n\nAfter her education, she worked for a media company in Beirut. Shim covered reports for Press TV in Lebanon, Iraq, Ukraine and Turkey.\n\nHer death took place days after she published a story detailing the said Turkish government use of humanitarian aid-marked trucks to transport weapons and ammunition to ISIL-ISIS factions that opposed the Assad administration's government in Syria. There are other news sources detailing ISIL-ISIS exporting oil through Turkey as well. Turkey is also said to have accused Serena Shim of spying.\n\n In October 2014, Shim was assigned by Press TV to Turkey on a mission to cover the ISIL conflict. She was based in Suruç, Şanlıurfa Province, Turkey, which is a rural area near the Syrian border.\n\nOn October 17, Shim told Press TV that the Turkish National Intelligence Organization (MİT) had accused her of \"spying\". She stated that it is \"probably due to some of the stories she had covered about Turkey's stance on the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant militants in Kobanê\". She had reported that ISIL militants were being smuggled over the Turkish border into Syria on trucks: \"I’ve got images of them in World Food Organization [sic] trucks. It was very apparent that they were militants by their beards, by the clothes they wore, and they were going in there with NGO trucks\". Shim said on air she's \"a bit frightened\" by what MİT \"might use against me.\"\n\nShim died on October 19, 2014 in a car crash on her way back to her hotel. She was returning to Suruç with her driver and camera operator, Judy Irish, in a rental car when the car collided with a cement mixer. The Turkish crash report said that Irish, who was driving the car, was the only culprit, having “entered the junction too fast, violating a lane as well as traffic rules by turning right.” The report also said that Şükrü Salan, the driver of the concrete mixer, was not in any way responsible. He was released after being detained following the accident. It was later reported that both the expert report and traffic collision report agreed he was not at fault for the accident, but the Suruç Public Prosecutor Office sought a jail term of two to six years for him on manslaughter charges.\n\nIrish was injured and taken to Suruç State Hospital.\n\nSalan was subsequently arrested. Press TV disputed this, alleging that both driver and vehicle \"have disappeared\" and her death is \"suspicious\".\n\nŞanlıurfa Governor İzzettin Küçük denied Press TV's claims and called them \"completely baseless\" and \"attempts to put Turkey in a difficult situation\". Küçük said a detailed statement would be made after the investigations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31015", "title": "Teletubbies", "text": "Teletubbies\n\nTeletubbies is a British pre-school children's television series created by Ragdoll Productions' Anne Wood and Andrew Davenport. The programme focuses on four multi-coloured creatures known as \"Teletubbies\", named after the television screens implanted in their abdomens. Recognised throughout popular culture for the uniquely shaped antenna protruding from the head of each character, the Teletubbies communicate through gibberish and were designed to bear resemblance to toddlers.\n\nParticularly notable for its high production values, the series rapidly became a commercial success in Britain and abroad. It won multiple BAFTA awards and was nominated for two Daytime Emmys throughout its run. A single based on the show's theme song reached number 1 in the UK Singles Chart in December 1997 and remained in the Top 75 for 32 weeks, selling over a million copies. By October 2000, the franchise generated over £1billion () in merchandise sales.\n\nThough the original run ended in 2001, sixty new episodes were ordered in 2014. They are currently aired on CBeebies in the United Kingdom and on Nick Jr. in the United States. Re-runs of the original 1997–2001 series continue to be shown on relevant television channels worldwide.\n\nThe programme takes place in a grassy, floral landscape populated by rabbits with bird calls audible in the background. The main shelter of the four Teletubbies is an earth house known as the \"Tubbytronic Superdome\" implanted in the ground and accessed through a hole at the top or an especially large semicircular door at the dome's foot. The creatures co-exist with a number of strange contraptions such as the Noo-noo, the group's anthropomorphic blue vacuum cleaner, and the Voice Trumpets. The show's colourful, psychedelic setting was designed specifically to appeal to the attention spans of infants and unlock different sections of the mind while also educating young children of transitions that can be expected in life.\n\nAn assortment of rituals are performed throughout the course of every episode, such as the playful interactions between the Teletubbies and the Voice Trumpets, the mishaps caused by the Noo-noo, the footage of live children displayed on the screens in the Teletubbies' stomachs, and the magical event that occurs once per episode. The event differs each time; it is often caused inexplicably and is frequently strange yet whimsical. Each episode is closed by the Voice Trumpets and the narrator. The disappointed, reluctant, but eventually obedient Teletubbies bid farewell to the viewer as they go back to the Tubbytronic Superdome while the Sun Baby sets.\n\n\n\nOn 31 March 1997, the first episode of \"Teletubbies\" aired on BBC2. It filled a timeslot previously held by \"Playdays\". This schedule change initially received backlash from parents, but the show was not moved. The programme's unconventional format quickly received attention from the media, and it was attracting two million viewers per episode by August. In February 1998, \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" noted that it had \"reached cult status\" in less than a year on the air.\n\n\"Teletubbies\" has been aired in over 120 countries in 45 different languages. In the United States, the series airs on Nickelodeon as part of the Nick Jr. block. Episodes are also released through the Nick Jr. mobile application and on-demand services. The original series is available as part of the Noggin subscription service in North America. It had aired on PBS Kids from April 6, 1998 to August 29, 2008. BBC Worldwide channels carry the series in most of Africa, Asia and Poland. A Spanish dub airs on Clan in Spain. In Greece, the series airs on Nickelodeon Greece. NPO Zappelin carries the show in the Netherlands and MTVA airs it in Hungary. In Australia and New Zealand, the series airs on CBeebies Australia and ABC Kids. JimJam's Benelux feed airs the series and Ultra airs it in Serbia. \"Teletubbies\" also airs on SIC in Portugal and e-Junior in the Middle East.\n\nGolden Bear Toys distributed the first line of \"Teletubbies\" dolls shortly after the programme's debut. They were sold internationally, with talking toys available in multiple languages. Hasbro signed on to develop a new range of products in 1998. In 1999, Microsoft UK released a set of interactive \"ActiMates\" toys based on the characters. The Rasta Imposta company introduced \"Teletubbies\" costumes for children and adults in the same year. Two educational video games featuring the characters were also released throughout the series' run.\n\n\"Teletubbies\" dolls were the top-selling Christmas toy in 1997. Demand outstripped supply at most retailers, reportedly prompting many shops to ration them to one per customer. In some cases, shoppers camped outside stores overnight in hopes of purchasing \"Teletubbies\" merchandise. Fights over the toys broke out among parents and collectors on occasion. Over one million dolls were sold in Britain by 25 December of that year, with Golden Bear representatives estimating that sales could have reached three million if supplies had been available. The plush toys were named \"Toy of the Year\" by the British Association of Toy Retailers in 1998.\n\nKids' meal tie-ins have been released at fast-food restaurants throughout North America. In May 1999, Burger King distributed a set of six \"Teletubbies\" plush toys. They also included chicken nuggets shaped like the characters on their menu for a brief period of time. Keychains modelled after the characters were available at McDonald's in April 2000. These promotions became controversial among adults who believed they were intended to attract toddlers to high-fat food. Psychiatrist Alvin Francis Poussaint considered the deals \"troubling.\" He voiced his opinion on the matter publicly, but did not take action against the companies.\n\nTwo kiddie rides featuring the characters were manufactured by Jolly Roger. They were available at select amusement parks and arcades, such as Chuck E. Cheese's and Fantasy Island.\n\nOverseas \"Teletubbies\" merchandise sales throughout the 1990s delivered €136 million in profits for the BBC. By the time of the programme's cancellation, \"Teletubbies\" toys had generated over £200 million in revenue for co-creator Anne Wood alone. In 2005, Chris Hastings and Ben Jones of \"The Daily Telegraph\" called \"Teletubbies\" \"the most lucrative show in BBC television history.\"\n\nTo commemorate the tenth anniversary of the premiere of \"Teletubbies\", a series of events took place from March to April 2007. The characters headlined an invitation-only event in London on 21 March 2007. They appeared in New York City's Times Square, Grand Central Terminal, and Apollo Theater. They were also interviewed on \"The Today Show\" in an episode that included the first televised appearance of the actors without their costumes. A partnership was formed with Isaac Mizrahi in which Mizrahi designed Teletubbies-inspired bags to be auctioned off to benefit charities. A new line of clothing was launched at the Pop-Up Shop and other specialty stores. New York City mayor Mike Bloomberg announced 28 March 2007 \"Teletubbies Day\" and gave the key to the city to the Teletubbies. Following their show in New York, the Teletubbies went on their first live European tour, performing in London, Paris, Bremen, Darmstadt, Halle, Hamburg, Köln, and Hannover.\n\nIn January 2016, costumed \"Teletubbies\" characters appeared at the American International Toy Fair. In April 2016, the series' premiere on the Greek Nickelodeon channel was advertised with a series of appearances by the Teletubbies at malls throughout Athens. This began with a live show at Avenue Mall on 16 April, which featured both the Teletubbies and a host from the network. Throughout May 2016, the characters appeared on various breakfast television programmes to promote the upcoming series' debut on Nickelodeon in the United States.\n\nIn November 2017, the show was given its first ever live show/musical entitled Teletubbies Live!, which toured the UK beginning the weekend of November 17th, 2017. In October 2018, DHX Media announced a second Teletubbies live show/musical and the first Christmas themed one entitled Teletubbies Live! 2: The Christmas Show which would be performed at Hyde Park UK as part of theyr annual Winter Wonderland event and will tour from Thursday November 22nd, 2018 until Sunday January 6th, 2019.\n\nCommon Sense Media's Emily Ashby found that \"while the show's examples of cooperative play, wonder, and simple joys are gentle and pleasing, the creatures can still be a little grating to parents watching along.\" Caryn James of \"The New York Times\" stated in her review that the episodes \"offer a genuinely appealing combination: cute and slightly surreal.\"\n\nUpon the show's release, some critics feared that the characters' use of babbling in place of complete sentences would negatively affect young viewers' ability to communicate. The \"Daily Mirror\" reported in 1997 that many parents objected to its \"goo-goo style\" and \"said the show was a bad influence on their children.\" Marina Krcmar, a professor of communication at the Wake Forest University, told interviewers in 2007 that \"toddlers learn more from an adult speaker than they do from a program such as \"Teletubbies\".\" However, Paul McCann of \"The Independent\" defended this aspect of the show, stating that \"\"Teletubbies\" upsets those who automatically assume that progressive and creative learning is trendy nonsense. Those who believe that education should be strictly disciplined and functional, even when you're 18 months old. Thankfully \"Teletubbies\" isn't for them. It's for kids.\"\n\nTinky Winky started a controversy in 1999 because of his carrying a bag that looks much like a woman's handbag (although he was first \"outed\" by the academic and cultural critic Andy Medhurst in a letter of July 1997 to \"The Face\"). He aroused the interest of Jerry Falwell in 1999 when Falwell alleged that the character was a \"gay role model\". Falwell issued an attack in his \"National Liberty Journal\", citing a \"Washington Post\" \"In/Out\" column which stated that lesbian comedian Ellen DeGeneres was \"out\" as the chief national gay representative, while trendy Tinky Winky was \"in\". He warned parents that Tinky Winky could be a covert homosexual symbol, because \"he is purple, the gay pride colour, and his antenna is shaped like a triangle: the gay pride symbol.\" The BBC made an official response, explaining that \"Tinky Winky is simply a sweet, technological baby with a magic bag.\" Ken Viselman of Itsy-Bitsy Entertainment commented, \"He's not gay. He's not straight. He's just a character in a children's series.\"\n\nIn May 2007, Polish Ombudsman for Children, Ewa Sowińska revisited the matter, and planned to order an investigation. \"I noticed that he has a woman's handbag, but I didn't realise he's a boy,\" Sowińska said in a public statement. She asked her office's psychologists to look into the allegations. After the research in late 2007, she stated: \"The opinion of a leading sexologist, who maintains that this series has no negative effects on a child's psychology, is perfectly credible. As a result I have decided that it is no longer necessary to seek the opinion of other psychologists.\"\n\nDespite the objections, the \"Independent on Sunday\"s editors included Tinky Winky as the only fictional character in the 2008 inaugural \"Happy List\", alongside 99 real-life adults recognised for making Britain a better and happier place.\n\nAlthough the programme is aimed at children between the ages of one and four, it had a substantial cult following with older generations, mainly university and college students. The mixture of bright colours, unusual designs, repetitive non-verbal dialogue, ritualistic format, and occasional forays into physical comedy appealed to many who perceived the programme as having psychedelic qualities.\n\nAdam Roberts suggests that \"Teletubbies\" constitutes an example of radical utopian fiction. In this reading, the Teletubbies are an advanced culture which has eliminated all need to work, worry, or struggle in any way, and regressed into a childlike state. Roberts positions the Teletubbies as the endpoint of the science-fictional idea of paradise based on infantilisation – a more extreme version of the future humans in Aldous Huxley's \"Brave New World\" and the Eloi in H. G. Wells's \"The Time Machine\" (who are mentally childlike, but still physically and sexually adult). Following Sigmund Freud's insight that adult pleasure must mediate id and super-ego – gratification and anxiety – the only way to attain a completely stress-free life is to surrender the super-ego, including sex. It follows that the broadcasts shown on the Teletubbies' in-set televisions are historical documentaries suggesting infantile existence as the paradigm, with the baby in the sun likely being the society's central machine intelligence. Roberts concludes:\n\nIn other words, the toddler-oriented aspect of the show can be read not in clumsily production-intention terms (‘the show is designed to appeal to toddlers’), but as a commentary upon the necessary infantilisation implicit in any utopian fantasy. It poses a question: to achieve a total happiness for all on the planet, once technology has removed the practical barriers, how far along the road towards infantile consciousness will it be necessary to travel? Will we become like the citizens of Huxley’s Brave New World? Or more infantile, like Wells’s Eloi? Or will we go the whole hog, and subsume our angst-ridden adult consciousnesses completely in the bright colours and satisfying repetitions of Teletubbyland? The enduring appeal of the Teletubbies to adults suggests, perhaps, this latter.\"\n\n\nIn December 1997, BBC Worldwide released a CD single from the series, based on the show's theme song, called \"Teletubbies say 'Eh-oh!'\" It is the only single from \"Teletubbies\", making the characters a one-hit wonder in the United Kingdom. The song was written by Andrew McCrorie-Shand and Andrew Davenport, and produced by McCrorie-Shand and Steve James. The single reached number 1 in the UK Singles Chart in December 1997, and remained in the Top 75 for 32 weeks after its release.\n\nIn December 2017, Teletubbies Play Time was released worldwide for mobile devices by Built Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "57179040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57179040", "title": "U-Net", "text": "U-Net\n\nThe U-Net is a convolutional neural network that was developed for biomedical image segmentation at the Computer Science Department of the University of Freiburg, Germany. The network is based on the fully convolutional network and its architecture was modified and extended to work with fewer training images and to yield more precise segmentations.\n\nThe network consists of a contracting path and an expansive path, which gives it the u-shaped architecture. The contracting path is a typical convolutional network that consists of repeated application of convolutions, each followed by a rectified linear unit (ReLU) and a max pooling operation. During the contraction, the spatial information is reduced while feature information is increased. The expansive pathway combines the feature and spatial information through a sequence of up-convolutions and concatenations with high-resolution features from the contracting path.\n\nThe basic articles on the system have been cited 1638 and 1086 times respectively on Google Scholar as of May 19, 2018\n"}
{"id": "1174032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174032", "title": "Uxoricide", "text": "Uxoricide\n\nUxoricide (from Latin \"uxor\" meaning \"wife\" and -cide, from \"caedere\" meaning \"to cut, to kill\") is murder of one's wife or romantic partner. It can refer to the act itself or the person who carries it out.\n\nThough overall rates of spousal violence and homicide in the US have declined since the 1970s, rates of uxoricide are much higher than rates of mariticide (the murder of a husband). Of the 2340 deaths at the hands of intimate partners in America in 2007, female victims made up 70%. FBI data from the mid-1970s to mid-1980s found that for every 100 husbands who killed their wives in the United States, about 75 women killed their husbands. However, wives were more likely to kill their husbands than vice-versa in some US cities including Chicago, Detroit and Houston. and in St. Louis. Uxoricide rates varied among different demographic subgroups, being about 8.5 times more common among African-Americans than among white Americans, and about 7.5 times more common in interracial marriages.\n\nIn the region of South-East Asia, 55% of all murdered women died at the hands of their partner, followed by 40% in the African region and 38% in the Americas. Preliminary findings of an ongoing study estimate that globally, approximately 35% of murders of women are committed by intimate partners.\n\nRates of uxoricide seem to fluctuate across western cultures, with approximately seven women being killed per month in England and Wales, approximately four women per month in Australia, and approximately 76 women per month in the United States. Note that these data come from different years, and that the United States has a much higher population than the UK or Australia.\n\nProponents of psychodynamic theories have offered explanations for the mechanisms underlying the occurrence of uxoricide. It has been suggested that men who kill their partners experience both an unconscious dependence on their wife and a resentment of her. These men wish to leave the relationship, but unknowingly perceive themselves as too helpless to do so, which culminates into a belief that killing the wife is the only way to be free of her. This approach also offers an alternative explanation for instances where a man commits uxoricide and subsequent immediate suicide – the man ends his life not due to guilt, but instead due to his perceived helplessness and dependency.\n\nLinks have also been established between violence in childhood and likelihood of uxoricide occurring. Psychodynamic researchers argue that being the victim of abuse in childhood leads to being a perpetrator of domestic abuse in adulthood via the route of defence mechanisms – in this case, violence is an unconscious defensive adaption to childhood trauma and other adverse events. Other psychodynamic researchers have reported that Thematic Apperception tests reveal significant trends of rejection by a mother or wife in men who commit uxoricide. Psychoanalytic dream interpretation has also argued that unconscious conflict manifests into violent outbursts. For example, in one instance one man had experienced and recorded over 200 distressing, mostly violent dreams prior to murdering his wife.\n\nIn slightly more than two-thirds of US spousal homicides, a verbal disagreement escalated to homicide.\n\nCohabiting women are at greater risk of domestic violence and uxoricide than married women. Research has found that cohabiting women are nine times more likely to be killed by their intimate partner than married women. A number of possible reasons for this finding have been studied. Cohabiting women are more likely to be younger, have a lower level of education and are more likely to bring children from a previous relationship into their home with their new intimate partner. In addition to this heightened risk to a mother with stepchildren, the genetically unrelated stepfather also poses a risk to the child; research has shown that children are at much greater risk of violence and filicide (murder of a child) from stepfathers compared to a genetic father. This may be because investment from a stepfather reduces reproductive benefits. Research has found that the presence of stepchildren can significantly increase the risk of uxoricide for women. A large number of filicides are accompanied by uxoricide and suicide.\n\nAdditionally, cohabiting relationships have higher separation rates and males in these types of relationships may not feel in control of their intimate partners and may feel threatened by male sexual competitors. Research has found that a large proportion of uxoricide cases follow on from the male believing that his female intimate partner has been unfaithful or the female partner attempting to end the relationship. Research has shown that females often experience increased abuse following the termination of a relationship. An Australian study found that of a sample of uxoricide cases, 47% of women were murdered by their male intimate partner within two months of separating. Sexual jealousy may be a possible reason for this heightened risk following separation.\n\nAnother risk factor for uxoricide is estrangement. Women who choose to leave their partner are at higher risk of spousal homicide. These crimes have been termed \"abandonment homicides,\" and are most commonly committed by men with childhood histories of abandonment and trauma, in conjunction with markedly low serotonin levels and frontal cortex damage that contribute to poor impulse control. The male is more likely to kill his mate before she has had the chance to form a new relationship with another man as he fears she will then devote her reproductive resources to a male rival's offspring. Therefore, by killing his partner he will avoid the reputational damage associated with intrasexual competition and will eliminate the chances of another man having access to a high value mate. This also explains why those women who have had children from a previous relationship are at higher risk of spousal homicide compared with those who have only had children with their current partner. The female partner has already devoted her reproductive resources to another man, therefore when she establishes a new relationship, the male becomes involved in the upbringing of another man's offspring which will damage his hierarchical status amongst intrasexual rivals.\n\nThe greater age disparity between spouses, the higher risk of spousal homicide. For a male, the damage associated with infidelity is greater when the partner is younger. A woman's fertility decreases as she gets older, therefore, age is key indicator of reproductive success. As a result, a man will place high levels of importance on a mate with greater reproductive value. A man is more likely to engage in \"hands on\" killing methods when the mate has high reproductive value. \"Hands on\" refers to more violent methods such as using weapons, drowning, stabbing and strangling.\n\nSome instances of uxoricide are facilitated by the culture of the victim and the perpetrator. For example, honor killings, whereby a man kills his wife because she has brought shame upon their family, are approved in some male-dominated, patriarchal societies. Approximately 42% of female victims of honour killings worldwide were killed because it was believed they had committed a 'sexual impropriety'. Other facilitating cultural norms include discriminatory family laws and articles in the Criminal Code which display leniency towards honor killings. In Turkey, it has been reported that little social stigma is attached to honor killings, and around 37% of those living in conservative areas believe that adulterous women should be killed. These attitudes favouring honor killings have also been echoed amongst children and adults in Jordan and India. In Uruguay, a judge may exonerate a man from punishment for killing a woman if he did so because she was unfaithful.\n\nUxoricide can also be prevalent in countries where honor killings aren't considered acceptable. In South Africa, for example, as many as five women are estimated to be killed each week by an intimate partner. It has been suggested that this high rate of uxoricide is a result of the prevalence of violence in South African society, and how it is deemed socially acceptable in many circumstances – conservative attitudes towards women in this society have been suggested to facilitate uxoricide. Studies conducted in Italy exhibit similar findings, reporting that a man's cultural values concerning the position of women in society links to his likelihood of committing uxoricide.\n\nWhen a parent kills another parent, children experience significant trauma. The other parent is likely to be in prison or may have committed suicide and therefore, the child will go through significant loss. The child has not only lost a parent but has also lost the other parent that would help and support them through this loss. This type of extreme traumatic event can have serious implications on wellbeing and mental health.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25228530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25228530", "title": "Émilien Amaury", "text": "Émilien Amaury\n\nÉmilien Amaury (born Étampes, France, 5 March 1909, died Chantilly 2 January 1977) was a French publishing magnate whose company now organises the Tour de France. He worked with Philippe Pétain, head of the French government in the southern half of France during the second world war but used his position to find paper and other materials for the French Resistance. His links with Jacques Goddet, the organiser of the Tour de France, led to a publishing empire that included the daily sports paper, \"L'Équipe\". Amaury died after falling from his horse; his will led to six years of legal debate.\n\nEmilien Amaury was born in modest circumstances in the town of Étampes. He left both his school and his family at 12. (Other sources say he left at 10) He began work as a bicycle delivery boy, worked in a bar, then joined the army in compulsory military service. On leaving the army he became at 19 secretary to Marc Sangnier, a journalist and politician, going from there in 1930 to found the OPG, the Office de Publicité Générale, which handled advertising for several Christian-Democrat newspapers. In 1937 he became technical adviser to the Minister for the Colonies, Marius Moutet.\n\nFrance declared war against Germany in 1939. Amaury was conscripted into the cavalry in 1938 and was awarded the Croix de Guerre, but he was captured when Germany invaded the Ardennes in 1940. He escaped soon afterwards and returned to Paris. The government collapsed with the invasion and a new state was declared, with its headquarters at Vichy. Its leader, Philippe Pétain, put Amaury in charge of propaganda for the well-being of the family. Amaury, however, had been in contact with an early \"Resistant\", Henri Honoré d'Estienne d'Orves, and through him had helped start the Rue de Lille Group, a Parisian cell of the growing Resistance movement in which Amaury took the code names Jupiter and Champin. He used his government position to procure paper – which was rationed – for Resistance newspapers and to supply other material. The paper he procured made it possible to print 30,000 and sometimes 100,000 copies of news sheets such as \"Résistance, L'Humanité\" and \"Témoignage Chrétien\".\n\nThe Rue de Lille Group – named after a street in Paris – also printed the text of General Charles de Gaulle's broadcast to France on the BBC of 18 June 1940, and printed forged documents for Resistance members.\n\nNewspapers and magazines which had continued to publish during the Occupation were closed down and their possessions sequestrated by the State at the end of the war. The way was open to new entrepreneurs and to those whose reputations had survived the war years.\n\nAmong the newspapers closed had been the sports daily, \"L'Auto\", which had founded the Tour de France in 1903. The editor, Jacques Goddet, had refused to run the race when the Germans invited him to but his paper printed news favourable to the occupiers, many of its shares were held by Nazi sympathisers, and Goddet himself had been a supporter of Pétain. He was able to show that \"L'Auto's\" print works, through its head, Roger Roux, had clandestinely produced news sheets for the Resistance generally and for Amaury in particular. An inquiry absolved Goddet of collaboration and, through Amaury's interest, allowed Goddet to open another newspaper, \"L'Équipe\", and to run the Tour de France. Both the paper and the race later became part of Amaury's business network.\n\nAmaury's first publication, however, building on the wreckage of the collaborationist press, was a weekly, \"Carrefour\" (\"crossroads\"), in August 1944. His links with the Ligue Féminine d'Action Catholique led to the foundation of \"Marie-France\", which he later edited. He also created the Syndicat de la Presse Hebdomadaire Parisienne (\"Parisian weekly press union\", later known as the Syndicat Professionnel de la Presse Magazine et d'Opinion), and was elected its president for 33 successive years.\n\nAmaury founded a daily paper, \"Le Parisien Libéré\" on 22 August 1944, three days before liberation of the capital. The first headline was \"The victory of Paris is in progress!\"(\"La victoire de Paris est en marche!\") The paper changed name to \"Le Parisien\" in 1986. The paper grew from the ashes of \"Le Petit Parisien\", a paper founded in 1876 but which had been tainted by collaboration during the second world war. The government closed it, along with other newspapers, and licensed \"Le Parisien Libéré\" and \"L'Humanité\" to take over the paper's headquarters in the rue d'Enghien.\n\nEconomic problems in the 1970s cost the popular press, including \"Le Parisien Libéré\", much of its readership. On 1 March 1975, \"Le Parisien Libéré\"'s management told workers' representatives of a plan to cut 300 jobs, including those of 200 printers, and to print fewer papers. On 4 March the company closed one of its print works, in the rue d'Enghien in Paris. The unions said they had been given no notice and it led to one of the longest strikes in French newspaper history and to the murder of an innocent man confused with the paper's editor.\n\nProduction of the paper was interrupted from 7 March. Amaury refused the claims of his workers. The printers stopped work, helped by colleagues elsewhere in the CGT trade union who gave a tenth of their salary to a strike fund. The printers took over two of the newspapers' plants and barricaded themselves behind rolls of newsprint. After two weeks Amaury had the paper printed in Belgium. Printers hijacked two loads of papers being driven south and threw them into the fields. The rest of the delivery made it to Paris and the newspaper maintained some of its circulation after moving printing to a plant north of Paris staffed partly by printers from \"Le Parisien Libéré\" who belonged to a different union.\n\nProtesters occupied the liner, \"SS France\" and scaled the Notre Dame in central Paris to scatter pamphlets and protested at the Tour de France, run by another part of Amaury's organisation.\n\nThe episode became more violent when a bomb killed the editor-in-chief of Agence France Presse at his apartment in Paris. An anonymous caller told a local radio station: \"We have just blasted the home of Cabanes of \"Le Parisien Libéré\".\" Bernard Cabanes was unconnected with the dispute; police believed the bomb was intended for the newspaper's editor, another journalist of the same name. Printers denied involvement. The dispute lasted 29 months.\n\nThe Tour de France cycle race began in 1903 to promote the newspaper, \"L'Auto\". The paper was among those closed at Liberation, its property sequestrated by the state. Its editor, Jacques Goddet, had compiled a dossier to show how much his paper had contributed privately to the Resistance even if its public stance had favoured the Germans. Émilien Amaury was among his supporters. Goddet was forbidden to use the name \"L'Auto\", judged to give an unfair advantage over rival sports papers. The new paper took the name \"L'Équipe\" instead. It applied successfully to organise the Tour de France.\n\n\"L'Équipe's\" finances were never secure and in 1968 Amaury bought an interest but maintained Goddet as editor. Amaury's condition was that his own cycling reporter, Félix Lévitan, should share organisation of the Tour. Lévitan slowly took over from Goddet, especially in arrangements for sponsorship and finance. He and Goddet were business partners rather than friends, and Lévitan came into his own when Amaury bought L'Équipe and the Tour. Amaury's death meant ownership passed, after a legal battle, to his son, Philippe. Friction over inheritance (see below) meant Philippe was anxious to change some of the arrangements he had taken over and Lévitan fell out of favour. \n\nThe Tour de France is still run by Amaury Sport Organisation, part of the general Amaury group, which also organises the Dakar car rally and the Paris marathon.\n\nAmaury died after falling from his horse in the forest near Chantilly, Oise. The left-wing newspaper \"Libération\" reflected the manner in which many of its readers perceived him by the headline \"Amaury falls from his horse: the horse is safe\" His death led to a six-year legal battle over inheritance. Amaury left the bulk of his estate to his daughter, Françine. French law demands that offspring inherit equally and Amaury's son, Philippe, insisted on his share. The legal case was handled by Jacques Trémollet de Villers and six years later it settled amicably, Philippe taking the dailies and his sister magazines such as \"Marie-France\" and \"Point de Vue\".\n\nÉmilien Amaury is buried in the St-Pierre cemetery at Chantilly.\n"}
