{"id": "4161867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4161867", "title": "Adequate remedy", "text": "Adequate remedy\n\nAn adequate remedy or adequate remedy at law is a legal remedy (either court-ordered or negotiated between the litigants) which the court deems satisfactory, without recourse to an equitable remedy.\n\nThis consideration expresses to the court whether money should be awarded or a court order should be decreed. Whether legal damages or equitable relief are requested depends largely on if the remedy can be valued. As an operation of law, an attorney often must present to the court whether there is an adequate remedy. This would be a basic principle of equity.\n\nFor example, a neighbor building on a landowner's parcel would have little or no value that can be paid because land is unique, and an inadequate value could be ascertained; contrast this, for instance, with the neighbor borrowing the landowner's car and being 100% at fault for an accident. In the latter case, the valuation of the car plus other consequentially- caused damages can be reasonably valuated.\n\nTherefore, as a general rule, where the fair market value can readily be assessed, with certain carved exceptions, the remedy at law is damages (or money). Whereas, the \"inadequacy\" of a remedy at law leads a lawyer usually to seek equitable relief from the court. When damages, a monetary award, is not an adequate or appropriate remedy, equity can order a \"specific performance\", an order of the court requiring a party to perform the obligations that he or she undertook to perform under the contract, especially where what was to be exchanged under contract can not be found easily elsewhere or at all, such as antiques, parcels of land, etc. \n\nThere is no such claim as an adequate relief claim. Damages are often bifurcated or determined in a separate trial or as a part in parcel of different determination from whether a certain tort or contract (etc.) has occurred.\n"}
{"id": "3793226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3793226", "title": "Aggravation (law)", "text": "Aggravation (law)\n\nAggravation, in law, is \"any circumstance attending the commission of a crime or tort which increases its guilt or enormity or adds to its injurious consequences, but which is above and beyond the essential constituents of the crime or tort itself.\"\n\nAggravated assault, for example, is usually differentiated from simple assault by the offender's intent (e.g., to murder or to rape), the extent of injury to the victim, or the use of a deadly weapon. An aggravating circumstance is a kind of attendant circumstance and the opposite of an extenuating or mitigating circumstance, which decreases guilt.\n\nIn the UK, the Criminal Justice Act 2003 requires a court to consider (a) relevant previous convictions, (b) racial or religious aggravation, and (c) hostility towards the victim or to persons generally based on sexual orientation (or presumed sexual orientation) or disability (or presumed disability) when determining sentence for a conviction.\n\nThe antonym of aggravation is mitigation.\n"}
{"id": "14663866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14663866", "title": "Annualized geo solar", "text": "Annualized geo solar\n\nAnnualized geo-solar (AGS) enables passive solar heating in even cold, foggy north temperate areas. It uses the ground under or around a building as thermal mass to heat and cool the building. After a designed, conductive thermal lag of 6 months the heat is returned to, or removed from, the inhabited spaces of the building. In hot climates, exposing the collector to the frigid night sky in winter can cool the building in summer.\n\nThe six-month thermal lag is provided by about three meters (ten feet) of dirt. A six-meter-wide (20 ft) buried skirt of insulation around the building keeps rain and snow melt out of the dirt, which is usually under the building. The dirt does radiant heating and cooling through the floor or walls. A thermal siphon moves the heat between the dirt and the solar collector. The solar collector may be a sheet-metal compartment in the roof, or a wide flat box on the side of a building or hill. The siphons may be made from plastic pipe and carry air. Using air prevents water leaks and water-caused corrosion. Plastic pipe doesn't corrode in damp earth, as metal ducts can.\nAGS heating systems typically consist of:\nUsually it requires several years for the storage earth-mass to fully preheat from the local at-depth soil temperature (which varies widely by region and site-orientation) to an optimum Fall level at which it can provide up to 100% of the heating requirements of the living space through the winter. This technology continues to evolve, with a range of variations (including active-return devices) being explored. The listserve where this innovation is most often discussed is \"Organic Architecture\" at Yahoo.\n\nThis system is almost exclusively deployed in northern Europe. One system has been built at Drake Landing in North America. A more recent system is a Do-it-yourself energy-neutral home in progress in Collinsville, IL that will rely solely on Annualized Solar for conditioning.\n\n"}
{"id": "20824119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20824119", "title": "Ballot title", "text": "Ballot title\n\nA ballot title is the official, short, summary of a ballot measure that appears on the ballot. The goal of a good ballot title is to be a neutral summary that accurately conveys to voters the gist of what the proposed new law says or would do. The National Conference of State Legislatures says, \"The ballot title and summary are arguably the most important part of an initiative in terms of voter education. Most voters never read more than the title and summary of the text of initiative proposals. Therefore, it is of critical importance that titles and summaries be concise, accurate and impartial.\"\n\nHowever, it is not always clear how one would neutrally describe the gist of what a new law would do.\n\nAs a result, ballot titles are fertile grounds for conflict and lawsuits.\n\nOne way that states differ in laws governing the initiative process has to do with whether the ballot title is determined \"before\" signatures are collected, or \"after\".\n\nAnother way that states differ has to do with whether the ballot title is determined by the government (which could be a commission, a ballot title determination board, the Secretary of State, or some other election official) or whether the ballot title is determined by the political organization that is advocating for the measure.\n\nStates where the ballot title is set prior to circulation include:\n\nAlaska, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Idaho, Maine, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon (In Oregon, the ballot title is set after 1,000 initial sponsorship signatures have been submitted) and Washington.\n\nStates where the ballot title is determined by the government \"after\" the signatures have been collected are:\n\nArizona, Michigan, Nebraska, Nevada, Oklahoma, Utah, Wyoming.\n\nIn Florida and South Dakota, the ballot title is determined by the proponent, subject to legal challenge by opponents in court.\n\nThere is a general consensus that the ballot title can be highly determinative of whether a ballot measure wins or loses.\n"}
{"id": "32696379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32696379", "title": "Charter Amendment One (Gainesville, Florida)", "text": "Charter Amendment One (Gainesville, Florida)\n\nCharter Amendment One was a citizen led referendum defeated in Gainesville, Florida's city election on March 24, 2009. Titled the \"Amendment to the City Charter Prohibiting the City from Providing Certain Civil Rights\", the measure would remove the legal protections not explicitly covered under the Florida Civil Rights Act of 1992, specifically with reference to sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nThe amendment was a key issue of debate in the elections and attracted national attention to social controversies in Gainesville, Florida that continued through the mayoral election in 2010.\n\nThe amendment was viewed as a test of LGBT rights in Florida following the passage of Florida Amendment 2 which banned same-sex unions the previous year.\n\nIn January 2008, the Gainesville City Commission narrowly voted to add gender identity to the list of protected groups in its city discrimination ordinance. Gainesville's discrimination ordinance forbids discrimination in access to public accommodation, housing, credit and employment for ten different categories.\n\nSexual orientation was briefly added as a protected category on the county level in April 1993 with 3 out of 5 county commissioners supporting it, but was later overturned by citizen referendum in the fall elections of 1994. In 1998, the city of Gainesville voted to add sexual orientation to the city discrimination ordinance, a move that was met with little opposition.\n\nThe Group Citizens for Good Public Policy organized a campaign to remove both gender identity and sexual orientation from the charter citing fears that loose gender laws would make it easier for men to infiltrate bathrooms designated for women and girls. By July 2008, they had collected enough signatures to place a referendum on the 2009 city ballot.\n\nBoth proponents and opponents of the measure had assistance from interest groups. The PAC Citizens for Good Public Policy supported the measure with aid from the Thomas More Law Center, a conservative law centre.\n\nThe primary opposition arose from Equality is Gainesville's Business, which had the support of the American Civil Liberties Union.\n\nIn 2010, Gainesville's mayoral race featured Don Marsh, a conservative who had vocally supported Charter Amendment One and Craig Lowe, a city commissioner who had voted in favor of adding gender identity to the city charter.\n\nA runoff election resulted in Craig Lowe being narrowly elected Gainesvilles's first openly gay mayor by a margin of 42 votes.\n\nTo express their opposition to Lowe's campaign, controversial Dove World Outreach Center displayed a sign reading \"No homo Mayor\" before amending the statement to read \"No homo.\" The sign was modified after warnings that adopting a political stance could cause them to lose their tax-exempt status.\n"}
{"id": "53849136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53849136", "title": "Code Shikara", "text": "Code Shikara\n\nCode Shikara is a computer worm, related to the Dorkbot family, that attacks through social engineering.\n\nIn 2011 the Code was first identified by the Danish cyber security company \"CSIS\". The AV-company Sophos reported in November 2011 that this threat mainly spreads itself through malicious links through the social network Facebook.\n\nIn 2013, Bitdefender Labs caught and blocked the worm, which is capable of spying on users' browsing activities, meanwhile stealing their personal online/offline information and/or credentials, commonly known as cybercrime. The infection was originally flagged by the online backup service \"MediaFire\", who detected that the worm was being distributed camouflaged as an image file. Despite the misleading extension, \"MediaFire\" successfully identified the malicious image as an .exe-file. The malicious \"Shikara Code\" poses as a .jpeg image but is indeed an executable file. As an IRC bot, the malware is simply integrated by the attackers from a control and command server. Besides stealing usernames and passwords, the bot herder may also order additional malware downloads.\n\n\"MediaFire\" has then taken steps to address incorrect and misleading file extensions in an update, which identifies and displays a short description by identifying specific file types. To help users for this specific threat, the file sharing service also blocks files with double extensions, such as \".jpg.exe\", \".png.exe\", or \".bmp.exe\". Just like usual malware, the Backdoor.IRCBot.Dorkbot can update itself once installed on the victim's computer or other related devices.\n\nThe biggest risk is that someone's Facebook contacts may have had their account already compromised (due to sloppy password security, or granting access to a rogue application) and that the account user has been allured by clicking on a link seemingly posted by one of their friends.\n\nAlthough the links pretend to point to an image, the truth is that a malicious screensaver is hidden behind an icon of two blonde women. After the code is launched it attempts to download further malicious software hosted on a specific compromised Israeli domain. The malware is currently not present on the Israeli website. All that remains is a message seemingly from the intruders, that says:\n\nIt is likely that they are using additional or other websites in continuing spreading their cyber attack(s). Some other popular baits tricking users to click on malicious links include Rihanna or Taylor Swift sex tapes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28067076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28067076", "title": "Competing harms", "text": "Competing harms\n\nCompeting harms is a legal doctrine in certain U.S. states, particularly in New England. For example, the Maine Criminal Code holds that \"Conduct that the person believes to be necessary to avoid imminent physical harm to that person or another is justifiable if the desirability and urgency of avoiding such harm outweigh, according to ordinary standards of reasonableness, the harm sought to be prevented by the statute defining the crime charged. The desirability and urgency of such conduct may not rest upon considerations pertaining to the morality and advisability of such statute.\" New Hampshire has a similar statute. The competing harms defense was unsuccessfully raised in the trial of Carter Wentworth for his role in the Clamshell Alliance's 1977 occupation of the Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant.\n\n"}
{"id": "24777035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24777035", "title": "Constitutional references to God", "text": "Constitutional references to God\n\nConstitutional references to God exist in the constitutions of a number of nations, most often in the preamble. A reference to God in a legal text is called invocatio dei (\"invocation of God\") if the text itself is proclaimed in the name of the deity. A reference to God in another context is called nominatio dei (\"naming of God\"). Such \"invocationes\" and \"nominationes dei\" are found notably in several European constitutional traditions (reflecting the strong position of established churches in those countries and the tradition of invoking God in legal documents) and in the constitutions of Islamic countries.\n\n\"Invocationes dei\" have a long tradition in European legal history outside national constitutions. In ancient times and the Middle Ages, gods or God were normally invoked in contracts to guarantee the agreements made, and formulas such as \"In the name of God the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit\" were used at the beginning of legal documents to emphasize the fairness and justness of the created norms. Treaties between Christian nations customarily began with an invocation of God until the late 19th century.\n\nWhen written constitutions became the norm for modern states in the 19th century, several European states carried this tradition over to their founding documents and then retained it, while others – notably laicist France and states influenced by it – did not do so, so as to preserve the state's religious neutrality. European countries whose constitutions do \"not\" make reference to God include Norway (1814), Luxembourg (1868/1972), Iceland(1944/68), Italy (1947), Portugal (1976) and Spain (1978); some of those who do are listed below. In the United States, the federal constitution makes no reference to God, but the constitutions of the states of California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, New Jersey, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Colorado, Washington, Nevada, Iowa, Texas, and Massachusetts, and the U.S. territory Puerto Rico, do. They generally use an \"invocatio\" of \"God the Almighty\" or the \"Supreme Ruler of the Universe\".\n\nWhen the newly independent nations of Eastern Europe and Asia adopted new democratic constitutions in the 1990s following the fall of the Soviet Union, they took a variety of approaches to the issue of mentioning God:\n\nMost recently, the inclusion of a \"nominatio dei\" was hotly debated in the preparation of the preamble to the proposed European Constitution. The governments of the member states eventually failed to reach consensus for a reference to Christianity. (See: History of the European Constitution.)\n\n\"Invocationes\" and \"nominationes dei\" in constitutions are attributed a number of purposes:\n\n\nThe invocation of God and Jesus in the Preamble of the Constitution of Ireland has been cited in Supreme Court rulings. The concept of natural law has been used to elucidate unenumerated rights. In 1983, Chief Justice Tom O'Higgins, in rejecting David Norris' appeal against the criminalization of buggery in the Offences against the Person Act 1861, stated \"It cannot be doubted that the people, so asserting and acknowledging their obligations to our Divine Lord Jesus Christ, were proclaiming a deep religious conviction and faith and an intention to adopt a Constitution consistent with that conviction and faith and with Christian beliefs.\" The report of the 1996 Constitutional Review Group recommended amending the preamble to a simple enactment in the name of the people, which would not be cognisable by the courts.\n\nConversely, in Canada the mention of God in the preamble to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms has not had much effect. In considering the legal implications of the preamble in the 1999 case \"R. v. Sharpe\", the British Columbia Court of Appeal referred to it as a \"dead letter\" which the BC justices had \"no authority to breathe life\" into.\n"}
{"id": "3961885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3961885", "title": "Daffy's Elixir", "text": "Daffy's Elixir\n\nDaffy's Elixir (also sometimes known as Daffey's Elixir or Daffye's Elixir) is a name that has been used by several patent medicines over the years. It was originally designed for diseases of the stomach, but was later marketed as a universal cure. It remained a popular remedy in Britain and later the United States of America throughout the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.\n\nDaffy's Elixir was one of the most popular and frequently advertised patent medicines in Britain during the 18th century. It is reputed to have been invented by clergyman Thomas Daffy rector of Redmile, Leicestershire, in 1647. He named it elixir salutis (lit. \"elixir of health\") and promoted as a generic cure-all.\n\nAn early recipe for \"True Daffy\" from 1700 lists the following ingredients: aniseed, brandy, cochineal, elecampane, fennel seed, jalap, manna, parsley seed, raisin, rhubarb, saffron, senna and spanish liquorice. Chemical analysis has shown this to be a laxative made mostly from alcohol. Other recipes include Guiuacum wood chips, caraway, Salt of Tartar, and scammony.\n\nAccording to an early nineteenth century advertisement it was used for the following ailments: The Stone in Babies and Children; Convulsion fits; Consumption and Bad Digestives; Agues; Piles; Surfeits; Fits of the Mother and Vapours from the Spleen; Green Sickness; Children's Distempers, whether the Worms, Rickets, Stones, Convulsions, Gripes, King's Evil, Joint Evil or any other disorder proceeding from Wind or Crudities; Gout and Rheumatism; Stone or Gravel in the Kidnies; Cholic and Griping of the Bowels; the Phthisic (both as cure and preventative provided always that the patient be moderate in drinking, have a care to prevent taking cold and keep a good diet; Dropsy and Scurvy. The frequent use of the medicine to treat Colic, gripes or fret in horses was deplored in early veterinary manuals.\n\nAfter Daffy's death in 1680 the recipe was left to his daughter Catherine, and his kinsmen Anthony and Daniel who were apothecaries in Nottingham. Anthony Daffy moved to London in the 1690s and began to exploit the product issuing pamphlets such as \"Directions for taking elixir salutis or, the famous purging cordial, known by the name of Daffy's elixir salutis\" [London], [1690?]. His widow Elleanor Daffy continued from about 1693 and (their daughter?) Katharine from about 1707. During the early 18th century the product was advertised widely in the emerging national and local newspapers. The success attracted several counterfeit copies, using inferior alcohol rather than brandy.\n\nThe medicine was later produced by William and Cluer Dicey & Co. of Bow Church yard c.1775 who claimed the sole rights of manufacture of the True Daffy's Elixir, although the recipe was not subject to any patent. Proprietorship was also then claimed by Peter Swinton of Salisbury Court and his son Anthony Daffy Swinton who may have been descended from the inventor. Dicey and Co. and their successors marketed it in the United States of America.\n\nIt then passed to Dicey and Sutton, and later to Messrs W. Sutton & Co. of Enfield Middlesex who continuing to market it throughout the nineteenth century. The use of Daffy's elixir is referred to in Anthony Trollope's novel Barchester Towers, 1857.\n\nDaffy's elixir is also mentioned on several occasions in Thomas Pynchon's novel Mason & Dixon, particularly by Jeremiah Dixon, who attempts to procure large quantities before beginning his surveying trip with Charles Mason. Dixon is warned by Benjamin Franklin, however, that imported Daffy's Elixir is extremely expensive, and he would be better off ordering a customized version from the apothecary. During the same visit, Dixon also orders laudanum, a well-known constipating agent.\n\nDaffy's elixir is also mentioned in the Charles Dickens book, Oliver Twist, Ch. II, where it is referred to as Daffy, in the sentence: 'Why, it's what I'm obliged to keep a little of in the house, to put into the blessed infants' Daffy, when they ain't well, Mr. Bumble,(the Parish Beadle)' replied Mrs. Mann as she opened a corner cupboard, and took down a bottle and glass. 'It's gin. I'll not deceive you, Mr. B. It's gin.'\n\nDaffy’s Elixir is also mentioned in the Works of William Makepeace Thackeray book, Vanity Fair, Chapter XXXVIII A Family In a Small Way, where it is referenced in the sentence ‘..and there found Mrs. Sedley in the act of surreptitiously administering Daffy’s Elixir to the infant.’\n\n\"Daffy’s original elixir salutis, vindicated against all counterfeits, &c. or, An advertisement by mee, Anthony Daffy, of London, citizen and student in physick, By way of vindication of my famous and generally approved cordial drink, (called elixir salutis) from the notoriously false suggestions of one Tho. Witherden of Bear-steed in the county of Kent, Gent. (as pretended;) Jane White, Robert Brooke, apothecary, and Edward Willet; all new upstatrt counterfitors of my elixir, and Ape-like imitators of my long since printed Books and Directions, (some of them, nigh verbatim, or word for word) and that to the jeopardy of many good, (but mis-in-formed) Peoples Healths, and Lives too; as also, from the false pretentions of other more sneaking Cub-Quacks, not yet lickt into form, but remaining Moon-blind brats, (still in swadling-clouts) I mean the numerous crew of libellous pamphleteeirs, which are (if possible) more dangerous counterfeiters of my Elixer\" . . . Advertisement by mee, Anthony Daffy s.n., 1690?].\n\n\"Daffy’s original and famous elixir salutis: the choice drink of health: or, health-bringing drink. Being a famous cordial drink, found out by the providence of the Almighty, and (for above twenty years) experienced by himself, and divers persons (whose names are at most of their desires here inserted) a most excellent preservative of man-kind. A secret far beyond any medicament yet known, and is found so agreeable to nature, that it effects all its operations, as nature would have it, and as a virtual expedient proposed by her, for reducing all her extreams unto an equal temper; the same being fitted unto all ages, sexes, complexions, and constitutions, and highly fortifying nature against any noxious humour, invading or offending the noble parts. Never published by any but by Anthony Daffy, student in physick, and since continued by his widow Elleanor Daffy\", London : printed with allowance, for the author, by Tho. Milbourn dwelling in Jewen-Street, 1693.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4991894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4991894", "title": "Defense pact", "text": "Defense pact\n\nA Defense pact is a type of treaty or military alliance where the signatories promise to support each other militarily, to defend each other. In general the signatories point out the threats in the treaty and concretely prepare to respond to it together.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25177307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25177307", "title": "Diminished value", "text": "Diminished value\n\nDiminished value, Diminution in Value, or commonly referred to as \"DV\" are the terms generally used to describe the economic loss in a property's value as a result of having been damaged. Diminished Value (DV) is often associated with vehicles that have been damaged, however, it is applicable to other property of value including collectibles such as jewelry, artwork, etc. For the purposes herein, reference will involve the loss in value of a damaged automobile where the term is often applied.\n\nUnlike \"depreciation\", which is an anticipated and predictable loss in value over time, ‘Inherent Diminished Value’ is a loss in value due to a specific, sudden and unexpected negative occurrence. Diminished value of an automobile following an accident may occur in one of three ways (or a combination thereof):\n\n(1) repair-related diminished value;\n\n(2) Immediate diminished value; and\n\n(3) inherent diminished value.\n\nRepair-related diminished value is the loss of value due to the inability to perfectly repair the vehicle, so it is worth less after repairs than it was before the wreck. Immediate Diminished Value – The difference in resale value of a vehicle immediately before damage has occurred and immediately after damage has occurred (prior to repair). As courts are rarely the chosen venue for recovery of property damage, the standard of \"Immediate Diminished Value\" is rarely employed in resolving Property Damage claims. This also refers to a loss of value caused by the insurer's direct involvement in the claim adjustment in which the insurer exerts control over the repairs and repairs are incomplete, insufficiently performed, or otherwise restore the vehicle to less than the standard condition.\n\nInherent Diminished Value - Assumes optimal repair quality has been achieved and is defined as the amount by which the resale value of a repaired vehicle has been reduced simply because the subject vehicle now has a significant damage history. This is the most widely recognized and accepted form of Diminished Value. It is also the basis upon which any supplemental form of Diminished Value would be added. A common \"Supplemental\" form of Diminished Value is \"Repair Related Diminished Value\".\n\nUsually, a frame or structurally damaged vehicle cannot be re-sold as a \"certified pre-owned vehicle.\"\n\nThe true measure of a damaged vehicle's inherent loss in value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. The standard rule as to establishing a value on late model vehicles would be: 20-25% behind book (Black Book, KBB, NADA) and utilize actual sales results, and not on advertised prices.\n\nWhile some may claim Diminished Value (DV) is subjective and based upon perception or speculation, the old adage \"perception becomes reality' applies and as such Diminution in Value is real simply because, for the most part, no reasonable and prudent person is willing to pay the same price for a vehicle with a history of damage as they would for one never having been damaged. Retailers often offer discounts for scratches and dents on appliances, electronics and dented canned goods; it is, therefore, reasonable that the value of a damaged motor vehicle will suffer a lessening in value.\n\nAdditional factors may be taken into consideration in evaluating the loss in value of a damaged and repaired vehicle and may include, but not be limited to: the vehicle itself (i.e. rare collectible, originality, market desirability etc.), the vehicle’s pre-loss condition, severity of the sustained damages (i.e. frame damage, flood, fire etc.), the subject vehicle’s history (i.e. one owner, prior damage/repair, death of occupants etc.), quality and thoroughness of the performed repairs, (i.e. quality of parts, materials, workmanship, etc.) and additional value considerations including, but not limited to values associated with pre-owned certification programs.etc.\n\nAuto insurance companies may not readily recognize or offer to pay for diminished value. Each state may have differing opinions of DV. Example; The state of Georgia allows the insured party (the first-party Policyholder) to make a claim for their remaining economic loss for DV from their own insurance company while the neighboring state of Florida does not. Most states, however, allow the victim of another's negligence (third-party) to make a DV claim from the at-fault party.\n\nThe length of time to collect Diminished Value will vary depending upon each state's statute of limitations for first party (contractual) claims and third-party (restatement of tort) claims.\n\nA diminished value appraisal evaluates the difference in value of a motor vehicle after a collision repair. Reports are usually compiled by an Auto Appraisal Expert experienced in the field of DV and who may provide expert testimony for Appraisals, Arbitration, Mediation or Litigation in a court of law. This Assessment report is used when filing or disputing a diminished value claim against another party and/or an insurance company. The report measures a damaged vehicle’s inherent loss in value. The diminished value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. In most cases even if the repair was done expertly, the value of the automobile will still be considerably less after a loss. When consumers find that a vehicle has been in an accident, most consumers will never pay the same price for a repaired vehicle as compared to one with no loss history.\n\nSome reports include an assessment of the damage done to a motor vehicle, the quality of the performed repair, the market value of the vehicle before and after the accident. There are no set rules for measuring diminished value, and since every vehicle loses value differently, a one size fits all formula would be fundamentally inaccurate.\n\nRecognition of concept of diminished value varies from country to country \n\nSome states' statutes acknowledge diminished value and provide the ability for consumers to collect first party claims of DV from their own insurance companies under their own policies. Most states allow the consumer to collect third party claims from the at-fault driver's insurance company. Some states recognize liability for third party claims but not first party claims.\n\nIn Georgia, vehicle owners can collect DV against their own policy.\n\nDiminished value is part of the Florida Standard Civil Jury Instructions. Diminished value case law in Florida is based primarily on two cases.\n\nThe ability to receive diminished value financial compensation from an at-fault driver for their negligence was decided by the Florida Supreme Court in the Siegle vs. Progressive Consumer's Insurance Company case. After Siegle insurance companies are able to exclude responsibility for the payment of diminished value to the vehicle that they insure through the language in the policy.\nThe Florida Third District Court of Appeal, upheld that the correct measure of damages is the cost of repair plus any reduction in the value of the vehicle. The Court also directed that proving the reduction in value is the burden of the Plaintiff bringing the claim.\n\nDiminished value is provided in Louisiana Revised Statute 9:2800.17. The vehicle owner must prove by a preponderance of evidence that the fair market value would be less than its value before the vehicle was damaged.\n\nOn July 15, 2014, a policyholder in Washington state filed a proposed class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of Pierce County seeking diminished value insurance benefits under their automobile insurance policies. The insurance company filed a notice to remove the lawsuit to federal district court on August 20, 2014. The case is titled \"Johnston v. United Services Automobile Ass'n\".\n\nThe ability to recover damages for accelerated depreciation varies from Province to Province.\n\nIn British Columbia, law recognizes this loss as a recoverable damage and quantify the claim based on the diminished value at the time the collision occurs.\n\nThe Rules addressing the admissibility of depreciation reports in court vary by jurisdiction. For example, in British Columbia, Canada, the BC Supreme Court requires such reports to comply with Rule 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "10823358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10823358", "title": "Electronic registration mark", "text": "Electronic registration mark\n\nAn electronic registration mark is a proposed category of trademark that would restrict the use of trademarked words and phrases in online advertising.\n\nThe State of Utah proposed this in response to trademark owners' claims that online advertisers have abused trademarked terms. Some online advertisers, particularly search engines, allow trademarked keywords to generate advertisements for a trademark holder’s competitors. Several corporations have sued search engines to stop this practice, claiming that it violates United States trademark law. In most of these cases, courts have ruled that traditional trademark law, as currently written, does not restrict advertisers’ ability to use trademarked terms to trigger advertisements. \n\nThe Utah Trademark Protection Act created the electronic registration mark. Under this now defunct law, trademark holders could have restricted the use of its registered trademarks to generate advertisements for products that compete directly with the trademarked product. The owner of the mark could have sought redress from two parties: The competitor that purchased the advertisement, and the website that displayed the keyword-generated advertisement. This law applied only to internet pages viewed within the State of Utah. The law had instructed the state to create a searchable database of electronic registration marks and to provide access to this database free of charge. This became Utah law in 2007 but was repealed in 2008 before implementation. \n\nNo other states have established electronic registration mark laws, and the federal government's trademark law does not clearly address how it applies to online keyword searching. Judges in France have consistently upheld rulings that French trademark law bans the sale of trademarked search terms in keyword advertising for any website viewed from within France. \n\nCritics find several flaws with electronic registration marks. They argue that restricting the keywords that advertisers can use violates the First Amendment. Another issue concerns an advertiser’s ability to determine whether a web page is being viewed in Utah or elsewhere: Because of this ambiguity, the law may be vulnerable to Dormant Commerce Clause challenges. Critics also assert that the law worsens the quality of online search results by restricting the search results that users can view. Supporters respond that trademark law has always considered trademark infringement to be a form of theft that is not protected speech, that search engines have demonstrated that they can pinpoint Internet users’ locations, and that paid advertisements are not a core component of an Internet user's experience. \n"}
{"id": "177312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177312", "title": "Elements of the Philosophy of Right", "text": "Elements of the Philosophy of Right\n\nElements of the Philosophy of Right () is a work by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel published in 1820, though the book's original title page dates it to 1821. Hegel's most mature statement of his legal, moral, social and political philosophy, it is an expansion upon concepts only briefly dealt with in the \"Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences\", published in 1817 (and again in 1827 and 1830). Law provides for Hegel the cornerstone of the modern state. As such, he criticized Karl Ludwig von Haller's \"The Restoration of the Science of the State\", in which the latter claimed that law was superficial, because natural law and the \"right of the most powerful\" was sufficient (§258). The absence of law characterized for Hegel despotism, whether monarchist or ochlocracist (§278).\n\nThe \"Philosophy of Right\" (as it is usually called) begins with a discussion of the concept of the free will and argues that the free will can only realize itself in the complicated social context of property rights and relations, contracts, moral commitments, family life, the economy, the legal system, and the polity. A person is not truly free, in other words, unless he is a participant in all of these different aspects of the life of the state.\n\nThe bulk of the book is devoted to discussing Hegel's three spheres or versions of 'right,' each one larger than the preceding ones and encompassing them. The first sphere is \"abstract right\" (\"Recht\"), in which Hegel discusses the idea of 'non-interference' as a way of respecting others. He deems this insufficient and moves onto the second sphere, \"morality\" (\"Moralität\"). Under this, Hegel proposes that humans reflect their own subjectivity of others in order to respect them. The third sphere, \"ethical life\" (\"Sittlichkeit\"), is Hegel's integration of individual subjective feelings and universal notions of right. Under ethical life, Hegel then launches into a lengthy discussion about family, civil society, and the state.\n\nHegel also argues that the state itself is subsumed under the higher totality of world history, in which individual states arise, conflict with each other, and eventually fall. The course of history is apparently toward the ever-increasing actualization of freedom; each successive historical epoch corrects certain failures of the earlier ones. At the end of his \"Lectures on the Philosophy of History\", Hegel leaves open the possibility that history has yet to accomplish certain tasks related to the inner organization of the state.\n\nThere were a number of issues that arose during the translation of the text. Most notably the phrase that is contained in the addition to §258, which was initially translated as \"The state is the march of God through the world\" as well as being translated thus: \"The existence of the state is the presence of God upon the earth\". From these early translations came the criticism that Hegel justifies authoritarian or even totalitarian forms of government: Giovanni Gentile, whose thought had a strong influence on Mussolini, bases his Hegelian revival on this point. However, Walter Kaufmann argues that the correct translation reads as follows: \"It is the way of God in the world, that there should be a state\". This suggests that the state, rather than being godly, is part of the divine strategy, not a mere product of human endeavor. Kaufmann claims that Hegel's original meaning of the sentence is not a \"carte blanche\" for state dominance and brutality but merely a reference to the state's importance as part of the process of history.\n\nThe preface to the \"Philosophy of Right\" contains considerable criticism of the philosophy of Jakob Friedrich Fries, who had been a critic of Hegel's prior work. Included in this is a suggestion that it is justifiable for the state to censor the writings of philosophers like Fries and welcoming Fries' loss of his academic position following Fries' participation in the Wartburg Festival. The inclusion of this passage has led to scholarly debate as to the reason for Hegel's advocacy of the kind of censorship the Prussian state had introduced following the murder of August von Kotzebue in the form of the Carlsbad Decrees. Hegel scholars have suggested that the inclusion of these passages was done to satisfy the censors. T.M. Knox argued that, while clearly designed to curry favour with the censors and written well after completion of the work proper, the Preface's condemnation of Fries was \"nothing new\", that there was no betrayal of his support for the Wartburg Festival principles, rather a mere denunciation of method, while condemnation of Karl Ludwig von Haller (whose work had been burned at Wartburg) remained undisturbed in the body of the work. Stephen Houlgate writes that Hegel's work is now recognized as \"one of the greatest works of social and political philosophy ever written.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14558310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14558310", "title": "Equal Treatment Directive of 1976", "text": "Equal Treatment Directive of 1976\n\nThe Equal Treatment Directive of 1976, 76/207/EEC was a former Directive that applied in the European Union, before it was recast into the new Equal Treatment Directive 2006/54/EC.\n\nThe old Equal Treatment Directive was created on 9 February 1976 on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions.\n\nIt was the subject of the landmark case \"A. Foster and others v. British Gas plc\". It had been previously established that European Union directives can be directly enforceable against the state if they have not been correctly and fully transposed into national law within the time allowed. The judgment in this case established that such direct enforceability applies not only against the state but also against \"emanations of the state\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5584180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584180", "title": "Extraordinary resolution", "text": "Extraordinary resolution\n\nIn business or commercial law, an extraordinary resolution or special resolution is a resolution passed by the shareholders of a company by a greater majority than is required to pass an ordinary resolution. The precise figures vary in different countries, but commonly an extraordinary resolution must be affirmed by not less than 75% of members casting votes, whereas an ordinary resolution only requires a bare majority.\n\nExtraordinary resolutions are generally only required in certain specific situations required by statute. For example, in the United Kingdom, to liquidate a company voluntarily on the ground that it cannot by reason of its insolvency continue its business, requires an extraordinary resolution.\n\nHowever, in certain circumstances a company may wish to amend its constitutional documents to provide that an extraordinary resolution needs to be passed prior to the company engaging in any reserved matters, purely as a matter of internal organisational control.\n"}
{"id": "35701952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35701952", "title": "Financial law", "text": "Financial law\n\nFinancial law is the law and regulation of the insurance, derivatives, commercial banking, capital markets and investment management sectors. Understanding Financial law is crucial to appreciating the creation and formation of banking and financial regulation, as well as the legal framework for finance generally. Financial law forms a substantial portion of commercial law, and notably a substantial proportion of the global economy, and legal billables are dependent on sound and clear legal policy pertaining to financial transactions. Understanding the legal implications of transactions and structures such as an indemnity, or overdraft is crucial to appreciating their effect in financial transactions. This is the core of Financial law. Thus, Financial law draws a narrower distinction than commercial or corporate law by focusing primarily on financial transactions, the financial market, and its participants; for example, the sale of goods may be part of commercial law but is not financial law. Financial law may be understood as being formed of three overarching methods, or \"pillars\" of law formation and categorised into five \"transaction silos\" which form the various financial positions prevalent in finance.\n\nFor the regulation of the financial markets, see Financial regulation which is distinguished from financial law in that regulation sets out the guidelines, framework and participatory rules of the financial markets, their stability and protection of consumers; whereas financial law describes the law pertaining to all aspects of finance, including the law which controls party behaviour in which financial regulation forms an aspect of that law.\n\nAs previously outlined, Financial law is understood as consisting of three pillars of law formation, these serve as the operating mechanisms on which the law interacts with the financial system and financial transactions generally. These three components, being market practices, case law, and regulation; work collectively to set a framework upon which financial markets operate. Whilst regulation has seen a historical resurgence following the 2008 economic crisis, the role of case law and market practices cannot be understated. Further, whilst regulation is often formulated through legislative practices; market norms and case law serve as primary architects to the current financial system and provide the pillars upon which the markets depend. It is crucial for strong markets to be capable of utilising both self-regulation and conventions as well as commercially-mined case law. This must be in addition to regulation. An improper balance of the three pillars is likely to result in instability and rigidity within the market contributing to illiquidity. For example, the \"soft law\" of the \"Potts QC Opinion\" in 1997 reshaped the derivatives market and helped expand the prevalence of derivatives. \nThese three pillars are underpinned by several legal concepts upon which financial law depends, notably, legal personality, set-off, and payment which allows legal scholars to categorise financial instruments and financial market structures into five legal silos; those being (1) simple positions, (2) funded positions, (3) asset-backed positions, (4) net positions, and (5) combined positions. These are used by academic Joanna Benjamin to highlight the distinctions between various groupings of transaction structures based on common underpinnings of treatment under the law. The five position types are used as a framework to understand the legal treatment and corresponding constraints of instruments used in finance (such as, for example, a guarantee or Asset-backed security.)\n\nThree different (and indeed inconsistent) regulatory projects exist which form the law within financial law. These are based on three different views of the proper nature of financial market relationships.\n\nThe market practices of participants constitutes a core aspect of the source of law of the financial markets, primarily within England & Wales. The actions and norms of parties in creating standard practices creates a fundamental aspect of how those parties self-regulate. These market practices create internal norms which parties abide by, correspondingly influencing legal rules which result when the market norms are either broken or are disputed through formal, court, judgments.\n\nThe principle role is to form \"soft-law\"; as a source of rules of conduct which in principle have no legally binding force but have practical effects. This has created standard form of contracts for various financial trade associations such as Loan Market Association, which seeks to set guidance, codes of practice, and legal opinions. It is these norms, particularly those provided by Financial Market Law Committees, and City of London Law Societies which the financial market operates and therefore the courts are often quick to uphold their validity. Often times \"soft law\" defines the nature and incidents of the relationships that participants of particular types of transactions expect.\n\nThe implementation and value of \"soft law\" within the system, is particularly notable in its relationship with globalisation, consumer rights, and regulation. The FCA plays a central role in regulating the financial markets but soft law, voluntary or practice created legal schemes play a vital role. Soft law can fill market uncertainties what are produced by common law schemes. Obvious risk that that participants become lulled into believing statements of soft law is the law. However, the perception that an opinion constitutes \"ipso facto\" a clear and widely held opinion is wrong For example, the consumer relationship in the case of Office of \"Fair Trading v Abbey National\" [2009] UKSC 6 where the bank was fined by the FSA for failing to handle complaints set out in \"soft law\" principle practices on broadly worded business principles which state that the bank must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Often times the self-regulation of \"soft law\" can be problematic for consumer protection policies.\n\nAnother example of the expansiveness of soft law in the financial market is the explosion of Credit Derivatives in London, which has flourished on the back of the characteristically robust opinion of Potts for Allen & Overy regarding the ISDA Master Agreement in 1990 which helped the industry separate itself from current market restrictions. A the time, it was unclear whether Credit Derivatives were to be categorised as insurance contracts under English legislation of the Insurance Companies Act 1982. ISDA was firm in rejecting a statutory definition of insurance, stating that \n\nSoft law\" has practical effects in that it is liable in many cases to be turned into \"hard law\", but with verified and experienced practice evidence. In the case \"Vanheath Turner (1622)\" the court remarked that custom of merchants is part of the common law of the United Kingdom. This highlights a long history of incorporating and accounting for the lex mercatoria into the English law in order to facilitate financial markets. Law merchant had been so absorbed by the 18th century that the Bills of Exchange Act 1882 could provide common law rules and merchant law in tandem. We might consider \"Tidal Energy Ltd v Bank of Scotland\", where Lord dyson held that \"a many who employee a banker is bound by the usages of bankers\" meaning that if a sort code and account number was correct, it did not matter if the name did not match.\n\nThere are risks on over-reliance on soft law sources, however. English law makes it difficult to create a type of security and reliance on rules may result in established views which reinforce errors. This could result in unacceptable security even if legally valid.\n\nThe second category which financial law draws most of its pragmatism with regard to the standards of the markets originates in litigation. Often, courts seek to reverse engineer matters to make commercially beneficial outcomes and so case law operates in a similar manner to market practice in producing efficient results.\n\nThere are two exceptions, attempting to limit the expectations to reasonable commercial men and uphold the freedom of contract. Autonomy is at the heart of commercial law and there is the strong case for autonomy in complex financial instruments. Re Bank of Credit and Commerce International SA (No 8) highlights the striking effect a commercially beneficial practice can have on financial law. Lord Hoffman upheld the validity of a security charge over a \"chose in action\" the bank held which it owed to a client. Despite the formidable conceptual problems in allowing a bank to place a charge over a debt the bank itself owed to another party, the courts have been driven to facilitate market practices as best as possible. Thus, they are careful to declare practices as conceptually impossible. In \"BCCI\", the court held that a charge was no more than labels to self-consistent rules of law, an opinion shared Lord Goff in \"Clough Mill v Martin\" where he wrote \n\nUnfortunately, case coverage is unsystematic. Wholesale and international finance is patchy as a result of a preference to settle disputes through arbitration rather than through the courts. This has the potential to be detrimental to advancing the law regulating finance. Market participants generally prefer to settle disputes than litigate, this places a greater level of importance onto the \"soft law\" of market practices. However, in face of disaster, litigation is essential, especially surrounding major insolvencies, market collapse, wars, and frauds. The collapse of Lehman Brothers provides a good example, with 50 judgments from the English Court of Appeal and 5 from the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom. Despite these problems, there is a new breed of litigious lenders, primarily hedge funds, which has helped propel the pragmatic nature of financial case law past the 2008 crisis.\n\nThe third category of law formation within the financial markets are those deriving from national and international regulatory and legislative regimes, which operate to regulate the practice of financial services. Three regulatory lenses ought to be highlighted namely arm's length, fiduciary, and consumerist approaches to financial relationships.\n\nIn the EU these might be exampled by MiFiD II, payment services directive, Securities settlement regulations and others which have resulted from the financial crisis or regulate financial trade. Regulatory control by the Financial Conduct Authority and Office of Fair trading set out clear rules replacing extra-statutory codes of conduct and has seen recent resurgence following the 2008 financial crisis. The regulatory policies have not all been rectified in regard to how they the new rules will be coherent with current market practices. We may consider \"In Re Lehman Brothers\" [2012] EWHC(Extended liens case) where Briggs J struggled to determine the legislative intent of the Financial Collateral Directive.\n\nIn addition to national and cross-national regulations on finance, additional rules are put into place in order to stabilise the financial markets by reinforcing the utility of collateral. In Europe, two regimes of collateral carve-outs exist; the Financial Collateral Directive, and the Financial Collateral Arrangement (No 2) Regulations 2003. The EU's development of the Financial Collateral Directive is curious if we view it through the lens of \"only\" a regulatory matter. It is clear that the law here developed through market practice \"and\" private law statutory reform. The EU has played a substantial role in this field to induce and encourage the ease of transfer & realisation of assets and liquidity within markets. The provisions are well adapted to short term transactions such as repos or derivatives.\n\nFurther harmonisation rules pertaining to commercial conflict of laws matters were clarified. The additional Geneva Securities Convention set by UNIDROIT provides a basic framework for minimum harmonised provisions governing rights conferred by the credit of securities to an account with an intermediary. However, this international project has as of late been ineffective with only Bangladesh signing.\n\nSeveral legal concepts underpin the law of finance. Of these, perhaps the most central concept is that of legal personality, the idea that the law can create non-natural persons is one of the most important common myths and among the most ingenious inventions for financial practice because it facilitates the ability to limit risk by creating legal persons which are separate. Other legal concepts, such as set-off and payment are crucial to preventing systemic risk by lessening the level of gross exposure of credit risk a financial participant might be exposed to on any given transaction. This is often mitigated through the use of collateral. If financial law is centrally concerned with the law pertaining to financial instruments or transactions, then it can be said that the legal effect of those transactions is to allocate risk.\n\nA limited liability company is an artificial creation of legislature which operates to limit the level of credit risk and exposure a financial market participant will participate within. Lord Sumption summarised the position by stating For financial markets, the allocation of financial risk through separate legal personality allows for parties to participate in financial contracts and transfer credit risk between parties. The ambition of measuring the likelihood of future loss, that is of identifying risk, is a central part of the role legal liability plays in economics. Risk is a crucial part of financial market sectors:\nFinancial markets have developed particular methods for taking security in relation to transactions, this is because collateral operates as a central method for parties to mitigate the credit risk of transacting with others. Derivatives frequently utilise collateral to secure transactions. Large notional exposures can be reduced to smaller, single net amounts. Often, these are designed to mitigate the credit risk one party is exposed to. Two forms of financial collateralization have been developed from the \"Lex Mercatoria\";\nA security interest may be granted with a right of use, conferring disposal powers. There is an increasing reliance on collateral in financial markets, and in particular, this is driven by regulatory margin requirements set out for derivatives transactions and financial institution borrowing from the European Central Bank. The higher the collateral requirements, the greater demand for quality exists. For lending, it is generally regarded that there are three criteria for determining high-quality collateral. Those being assets which are or can be:\nThere are several benefits to having financial collateral provisions. Namely, financial reduces credit risk, meaning the cost of credit and the cost of transacting will be lowered. The reduced insolvency risk of the counter-party, combined with more credit being available to the collateral taker will mean the collateral taker can take additional risk without having to rely on a counter-party. Systemic risk will be reduced by increased liquidity, This produces \"knock-on effects\" by increasing the number of transactions a collateral taker can safely enter, freeing up capital for other uses. However, there is a need for balance; the removal of limitations on insolvency rules and security registration requirements, as observed in the FCARs, is dangerous as it degrades powers and protections which have been conferred deliberately by the law.\n\nThe primary objective of the Financial Collateral Directive was to reduce systemic risk, harmonise transactions and reduce legal uncertainty. It achieved this by exempting qualified \"Financial collateral arrangements\" from the performance of formal legal requirements; notably registration and notification. Second, the collateral taker is provided effective right of use and said arrangements are exempted from being re-characterised as different security arrangements. Perhaps most significantly, traditional insolvency rules which may invalidate a financial collateral arrangement; such as freezing assets upon entering into insolvency, are suspended. This allows a collateral taker to act without the limitation which may arise from a collateral provider entering bankruptcy. The FCARs focus on outlining when a financial collateral arrangement will be exempted from national insolvency and registration rules. In England, the requirements that a financial collateral arrangements only applies between non-natural persons with one being a financial institution, central bank, or public body; the FCAR has been \"gold-platted\" by allowing any non-natural person to benefit. Thus, to qualify as a \"financial collateral arrangement\" under the FCARs, a transaction must be in writing and regard \"relevant financial obligations\". The criteria for a \"relevant financial obligations\" is set out in Part I Paragraph 3\n\nThe purpose of the provision is to increase the efficiency of markets and lower the transaction costs. The disapplied formal and perfection requirements accelerates the effectiveness of security through FCAR Reg 4(1),(2),(3) and 4(4). Two things might be said of this. Firstly, academics have highlighted the risk of dappling statute of frauds and other requirements. It runs real risk of repealing substantial protections which were developed, at least in English common law, because of real risks of exploitation. Other forms of protection which has been repealed includes the ability to allow parties to implement Appropriation if expressly agreed is permitted.\n\nExtensive litigation has resulted from the determination of the FCAR regulations, specifically the meaning of \"possession or control\" as set out in paragraph 3. Recital 10 states that possession or control is for the safety of third parties, however, the type of mischief this is seeking to remove is unclear. In \"C-156/15 Swedbank\", the CJEU enforced the requirement that practical control was that of legal negative control. What is clear is that (1) possession is more than merely custodial and dispossession is mandatory. Some legal control is also crucial, meaning practical or administrative control is insufficient.\n\nRequirement that collateral must be in possession is unclear. Is it one, two things? Does possession apply to intangibles? We do know that you cant. Is the requirement of control the same as the test for fixed charges. The scope of the regime is not clear. There are several unanswered questions. Only the collateral providers can have is right of substitution and right to withdraw surplus. Possession applies to intigble if it is credited to an account. Gullifer suggests that this is a redundant definition. The directive drafted with English and Irish laws not being centrally in mind. It was about disposition. To some extent, ownership discourages transactions for the risk of ostensible wealth.\n\nIt was held that the phrase was to be construed in a manner consistent with meaning and purpose. This is not merely a matter of English law, Lord Briggs' judgment in Client Money [2009] EWHC 3228 held that to interpret the meaning of the directive a court ought to 1. Interpret the directive. We can look at different language texts and cases if any. 2. Interpret domestic legislation in light of the directive (as interpreted through stage 1) This is not restricted by conventional rules. Meaning that the court can and will depart from literal meaning and may imply words as necessary however, one cannot go against domestic legislation, nor require the court to make decisions it is not prepared to make. Repercussions must be and are considered by the court.\n\nBy contrast, Control has been shown to not be that of practical (Administrative) control. It is clear that FCARs require a standard of negative legal control. Practical control, is the Collateral Taker's exclusive ability to dispose and it is suggested this will additionally be required if the parties are to avoid fraud. It is established by the rights and prohibitions in the security agreement but there is limited case-law on the matter Scholars identify two forms of control: \nPositive and Negative control differ where one either has the right to dispose without reference to the collateral provider, or where collateral provider is able to do so without collateral taker. What is undeniable however, is that dispossession is central to both possession and control. Rights of the Collateral taker must be beyond merely custodial; he must be able to refuse to hand collateral back.\n\nThere are a handful of risks to these arrangements - as previously outlined - the ill definition of what constitutes the activation of the FCAR arrangements creates a danger. However, within the context of appropriation, a provider only has a personal right against a taker for the surplus. There is no proprietary right. Should a taker (like Lehman) become insolvent, a provider may well be at a loss for the excess. It encourages the party to reclaim excess value whenever possible/reasonably practical. This is not always possible due to the variation of the markets. Further, the risk of appropriation is that these can be used for ulterior purposes. Which as created the Cukurova problem; there parties had constructed a scheme to capture shares with a clause preventing the collateral taker from selling large securities at once and spooking the market, but valuation is not linear which made it difficult, if not impossible to determine what a commercially reasonable price for securities would be in an illiquid market.\n\nOther concepts, crucial to financial markets include Contingent obligations, the fact that bank debts operate as money; and Set-off designed to mitigate the net exposure of transactions. Set-off as a legal concept is crucial part of reducing credit risk and reducing the knock-on effects of insolvency. \nCollectively, these concepts operate to underpin financial transactions by further dividing risk. Various combinations of these legal methods are used to produce various allocations of risk. For example, the ISDA 2002 master agreement utilises contingent obligations, set-off, and legal personality to reduce the liabilities of non-defaulting parties in the event of default. The effect of Clause 2(a)(iii) of the ISDA agreement is to suspend the payment obligations of parties until the event of default has been cured. Such a cure may not ever occur. There is substantial academic caution that such a suspension acts to circumvent insolvency pari passu objectives. However, there is equal evidence that the clause provides substantial market stability as a result of the standardisation and universality that the ISDA Master Agreement has within the derivatives market. It further provides the involved parties to suspend the swap (and any other transactions within the master agreement), providing them the time to understand the overall effect the event of default has had on the agreement and the market. In other words, it provides a breather.\n\nPayment operates as another core legal concept which underpins financial law. It is crucial because it determines the point at which a party discharges their obligation to another party. In finance, particularly relating to set-off, guarantees, or other simple and funded positions; the definition of payment is \"crucial\" to determining the legal exposure of parties. Several of the cases derive predominately from English and U.S. law, pertaining to the Lex mercatoria, and was developed when finical law historically focused on maritime trade.\n\nIn English and U.S. law, payment is consensual, requiring acceptance from both payee and payer. Roy Goode suggests that Payment is a; . Payment as a legal concept is underpinned by the law of contract. In most common law jurisdictions, a valid contract requires sufficient consideration.\n\nPayment plays a crucial role in financial law because it determines when parties are able to discharge duties. In \"Lomas v JFB Firth Rixson Inc\" [2012] EWCA Civ 419, the issue concerned when a debtor was able to discharge the duty to pay under the ISDA Master Agreement (1992). The requirement for payment arises in English law from a duty in performance of a money obligation. Whilst normally described and fulfilled in monetary terms, payment need only satisfy the creditor and does not necessarily involve the delivery of money, but it cannot constitute payment unless money is involved, even if performance is fulfilled by some other act. Obligation to pay or tender the debt is balanced by the obligation on the part of the seller not to refuse the whole or part of the debt. This is underpinned by limitations on part-payment. This traditionally operates in order to proffering money to fulfil obligations within a contract. In taking it, it is an affirmation of said contract and the debtor is discharged of his obligation to the creditor. This is crucial. In contracts where A (‘the debtor') owes money to B (‘the creditor'), payment operates as the terminus for A's obligation to B. It was crucially held in \"Societe des Hotel Le Touquet Paris-Plage v Cummings\" that the bilateral contractual process did not require \"accord and satisfaction\" to achieve discharge of a debt by payment. The operation of payment therefore requires mutual [[acceptance|compliance}} from \"both creditor and debtor\".\n\nMutual consent must thus occur at two points, \"ex ante\" and \"ex post\" of the contract between parties and at what we might call \"point Z\" for situations where an obligation to pay does not result from contractual duties. (such as a debt owed to a non-adjusting creditor, cf Bebchuk and Fried). At both points, mutual consent required from both parties.\nFirst, \"ex ante\" consent occurs at the time where parties agree on the obligation. If a party has specified a method for discharging an obligation through a specific means, then the parties must have contemplated the sufficiency of the tender to discharge the debt and therefore consensually agreed to payment of a specified way. This will likely provide specification on when tender may be rejected. Chen-Wishart's discussion of the importance of consideration within the bargain theory of contracts enunciates the emphasis the English law has placed on benefit and deliberateness when contracting. Contracting parties must have contemplated, negotiated, and reached mutual agreement in regard to how the obligation would be discharged. This does not, however, prevent or impede the occurrence of \"point Z\". Parties may duly agree on payment in principle prior to the execution of the contract and subsequently still fail to effect payment. Functionally agreement results in questioning whether or not payment has been made by the debtor. The debtor must commit a certain level of formality to proffering the obligation. This formality may take the form of complying with a contract. Failure to comply, is not payment.\n\nSecond, \"ex post\", regardless of whether parties have [[Offer and acceptance|mutually agreed]] and specified a method, or a money of payment, the parties (notably the creditor) must consent to the debtor's tender in order to crystallise payment and sever the demand for payment. Discharge of a debt is automatic. In other words, a payment of a contractual obligation requires mutual consent of payment at both the stage of formation and at the conclusion/distribution to be recognised as ‘payment', but upon acceptance of payment the debt is discharged. In \"Colley v Overseas Exporters\" it was shown that even where tender complies with the contract, it is not payment until the creditor (or Payer) accepts. This is regardless of whether the creditor's rejection frustrates the contract and is a breach of their duty. The law does not allow the debtor to coerce the creditor into accepting a tender. This is the case, even when the debtor has forwarded [[Legal tender|valid tender]]. It is the subsequent acceptance or non-acceptance of the tender from the creditor which crystallises payment and effects discharge. Mere receipt will not suffice. However, mutual consent is of a lower standard than that in contractual formation. In \"TSB Bank of Scotland plc v Welwyn Hatfield District Council\" [1993] Bank LR 267, Hobhouse J held that acceptance of payment need not be communicated and his judgment provides a clear, two-stage test for determining whether payment has been made. If A;\nThus, in \"Libyan Arab Bank v Bankers Trust Co\" the court held that when the collecting bank decided unconditionally to credit the creditor's account, the payment is completed. Presentation and subsequent rejection of payment provides an absolute defence for to an action brought by the creditor, but without the action (and opportunity to pay into the court) and with exceptions, the debtor's [[tendering|proffering]] of payment does not discharge the money obligation nor does it constitute as payment. In the case of \"The Laconia\", the English [[House of Lords]] set out clear conditions on timing of payment in relation to the debtor proffering payment. The charterers had procured a vessel for 3 months, 15 days with a payment due on April 12, a Sunday. The charterers delivered payment on Monday. The vessel owners rejected the payment, which was sent back the following day. Primarily, \"The Laconia\" regards the requirement for a tender to be congruent with the conditions in order to amount to a tendering of payment. However, the case might also be used to highlight the necessity for the creditor to accept such tendering. Had the vessel owners merely taken receipt of the payment and not instructed their bank to return the money, then it seems likely that payment was accepted.\nThe consensual nature of payment thus derives from the requirement that both debtor must offer, and creditor must accept, the medium of payment; and secondly from the fact that creditor rejection of procurement, even if his agent is in receipt of the payment, results in a failure to effect payment. Goode discusses two forms where receipt does not take effect as acceptance that fall into the second aforementioned stage of mutual consent; \nThe fact that rejection of tender is sufficient to prevent ‘payment' derives from the fact that payment is the conferral of property to fulfil the obligation. Property and obligation aspects of the transaction cannot be separated without the transaction ceasing to be \"payment\".\n\nAs well as being fragmented, financial law is often muddled. Historical segregation of the industry into sectors has meant each has been regulated and conducted by different institutions. The approach to financial law is unique depending on the structure of the financial instrument. The historical development of various financial instruments explains the legal protections which differ between, say, [[guarantees]] and [[indemnity|indemnities]]. Due to the limited cross-sectoral legal awareness, innovations in finance have been associated with varying levels of risk. Several different legal \"wrappers\" provide different structured products, each with differing levels of risk allocation, for example, funded positions consist of bank [[loans]], [[capital market]] [[securities]], and [[managed funds]].\n\nThe primary purpose of financial law is to allocate risk from one person to another and change the nature of risk being run by the protection buyer into the 'credit risk' of the risk taker. Five categories of market structures are divided according to how the contract deals with the credit risk of the risk taker.\n\n[[Guarantees]], [[insurance]], standby [[letters of credit]] and [[performance bond]]s. The terms \"Simple\" can often be misleading, as often the transactions which fall within this category are often complicated. They are termed simple not because of the lack of sophistication but because the transactions do not address the credit exposure of the protection buyer. Rather, ass with a guarantee, the protection buyer simply takes the risk of protection seller. [[Derivative (finance)|Derivatives]] often fall within this regulatory category because they transfer risk from one party to another.\n\nThe second portion of simple transactions are derivatives, specifically unfunded [[Derivative (finance)|derivatives]] of which, four basic types exist. At law, the primary risk of a derivative is the risk of a transaction being re-characterised as another legal structure. Thus, the courts have been cautious to make clear definitions of what amounts to a derivative at law. Fundamentally, a derivative is a contract for difference, it utilises [[netting]] to set obligations between parties. Rarely does delivery of the asset occur. In English law, the judgment of \"Lomas v JFB Firth Rixon [2012] EWCA Civ, quotes the leading test \"Firth on Derivatives\", characterising a derivative as a \nAs legal instruments, derivatives are bilateral contracts which rights and obligations of the parties are derived from, or defined by, reference to a specified asset type, entity, or benchmark and the performance of which is agreed to take place on a date significantly later than the date in which the contract is concluded.\n\nTypes\nVarious [[Derivative (finance)#Types|types]] of derivatives exist with even greater variance of reference assets. English law in particular has been clear to distinguish between two types of basic derivatives: Forwards and Options. Often parties will place limits on the interest rate differentials when engaging in trades. At law, these are known as “Caps & Collars”, these reduce the cost of the transaction. Regulation has been a key component in making the market more transparent, this has been particularly useful in protecting small and medium sized businesses. \nSwaps and Credit derivatives also differ in legal function. A credit derivative describes various contracts designed to assume or distribute credit risk on loans or other financial instruments. Payment obligations of a seller is triggered by specified credit events affective defined assets or entities. In a \"swap\", it was held in \"Hazell v Hammersmith and Fulham London Borough Council\" by Woolf LJ that equity swaps were developed under ISDA's guidance and might be defined as These are differentiated from \"credit derivatives\", which reference the credit risk of specified credit event; usually a bankruptcy, failure to make payment, or a breach of a condition such as a debt-to-equity ratio. Payment as a core concept in finance is crucial to the operation of derivatives. Credit derivatives which are \"self-referenced\", i.e. referencing the parties own credit worthiness have been considered by the courts as capable of involving [[fraud]].\n\nA swap derivative with negative interest rates highlights particularly issues at law. It is unclear how a party pays a negative number. Does it reverse the obligations? According to the [[ISDA Master Agreement]] variation in 2006, a swap has a \"zero floor\" which means that if interest rates reverse, the obligations do not reverse. Without the 2006 variation, the negative interest rate is a deduction off what is owed. \nAn additional area of relevant derivatives law is shown in the cases of \"Dharmala\" and \"Peekay\", both of which involved arguments of mis-selling derivative transactions. This is closely related with the argument that parties, particularly government bodies lack the power to enter into derivative contracts. In \"Dharmala,\" the claimant argued unsuccessfully that the bank misrepresented the transaction. It was held that they did misrepresent but for the misrepresentation to effect a claim, it was necessary to induce someone to enter into the contract, which was unable to be proven. In \"Peekay\", the Court of Appeal rejected the suit for [[misrepresentation]] when the defendant mis-sold a synthetic [[credit derivative]] to Peekay which had its reference assets in Russian investments. The Peekay director ought to have read the documents rather than relying on the defendant's oral representation. This is a pro-market approach with marked Judaical disinclination to not strike down transactions, substantial problems exist with enforcing a contract against a party which argues it lacks the power to enter into an agreement, it has been likened to \"pulling oneself up by the bootstraps\" as the party cannot warrant that it has the power if it truly doesnt.\n\nDocumentation of derivatives often utilises standard forms to increase liquidity, this is particularly the case in exchange traded, or \"over the counter\" derivatives which are predominately documented using the [[ISDA Master Agreement]]. These agreements operate to create a singular transaction which lasts the duration of the trading relationship. Confirmation of trades can be codified by oral contracts made over the phone. This is only possible because interpretation of the standard form documentation is done in a manner so that the terms of art used within the documents have their own autonomous meaning separate from the [[Lex fori|law of the forum]]. Flexibility within the contract, and a court appreciation for the commercial objectives of the master agreements is a crucial aspect of the long-term operation of the financial markets which they support.\nThe ISDA Master Agreement is dependent on market practices, which attach to interpretations of intention within a context of long term relationships. The aim is to differentiate relational contracts from one-off contracts. The concept of a single agreement is not new. The is an artificial line to sum-off and default netting practices Payment of a derivative contract, particularly those of standardised forms, use [[netting]]. This minimises credit risk.\n\nIn being similar to one another in terms of economic market effects, simple positions are particularly susceptible to being re-characterised. When this happens, substantial legal consequences can result, as each legal instrument has different consequences. Whilst a guarantee and an indemnity have, in substance, the same economic result; the law characterises each differently because it affords an indemnifier less protection than a guarantor. Similarly, a derivative or guarantee must not be recharacterised as an insurance contract, as such contracts are strictly regulated by government regulation. A re-characterisation into a insurance contract would be fatal to the contract, as only licensed parties can issue such terms. The characterisation of financial transactions by the court takes the form of two stages; examining the legal substance, not the form of the agreement. Thus, stating that a contract is a derivative, does not make it a derivative. As held by Lord Millet in \"Agnew v Commissioners of Inland Revenue ([[Re Brumark Investments Ltd]]\", characterisation interprets the document and then categorises it within one of the existing legal doctrines. Intention is not relevant, however, there are sensitivities to this matter, primarily concerning the insurance markets. Three key types of recharacterisation can occur to simple positions\n\nLending is perhaps the most central aspect of the financial system. As discussed by Benjamin, the law attempts to allocate risk in ways which is acceptable to the parties involved. Bank [[loans]] and [[capital market]] transactions fall within this category. It may be defined as situations where the risk-taker is the provider of capital to another party. If the risk materialise, the exposure is not merely an obligation to pay, but rather the exposure of the risk-taker is the risk of losing its previously committed capital. That is to say, a funded position is the risk of repayment. When a bank makes a loan, it pays money and runs the risk of a lack of repayment.\n\nOne might ask what the difference between an asset-backed security and funded positions. The answer is that funded positions are positions which are acquired without backing of other assets.\n\nThe true difference is that of funded positions and simple positions. Simple positions, such as guarantees, insurance, standby credits and derivatives. Funded positions differ from simple positions in that simple positions expose risk as a form of a promise. The risk taker agrees to pay the beneficiary upon certain events. This relies upon exposure to credit risk. Funded positions have the risk exposure has the form of a payment, which is to be restored. The risk exists in that it may not be repaid. It is funding a party with the risk being a lack of repayment. This includes the bank and non-bank lending including [[syndicated loans]].\n\nTwo overarching forms of funded positions exist between debt and equity, and there are several ways to raise capital. This might be broken down into Bank loans ([[debt finance|debt financing]]) and equity issuing ([[capital markets]]). Alternatively, a company may retain profits internally. This may be summarised as:\nFew companies can use equity and retained profits entirely. It would not be good business to do so either; debt is a crucial aspect for corporate finance. This relates to the gearing advantages of taking on debt and maximising the value of [[debt-to-equity ratio|debt-to-equity]] to allow equity to gain maximum returns. Debt is repayable in accordance with the terms; whereas equity instruments, typically includes rights of [[shareholders]], rights to receive reports, accounts, pre-emptions (where the company proposes issuing new shares), and the right to vote on strategic decisions affecting the company.\n\nBank lending may be categorised according to a large number of variables including the type of borrower, the purpose and the form of the loan facility. Where a bank makes a loan it will typically require a business plan and require security where it has credit concerns. A commitment letter may be produced during the negotiations for a loan. In general these are not legally binding.\n\nA loan facility is an agreement where a bank agrees to lend. It is distinct from the loan itself. Using a loan facility it writes to the bank and the bank makes the loan. LMA syndicated single currency term facility distinguishes between 1. commitment to lend to each lender, 2. average of each; and 3. the loan made under the agreement and the draw down. Three important forms of these are:\nThese may be further categorised into two overarching forms of bank [[loan|lending]], organised based on the term/repayment criteria of the loan. These are:\nEconomist and finance lawyers categories these and further categorise syndication separately but within committed lending. This has been a traditional driver for lending within the debt financing market.\n\nWhere express terms state that it is repayable one demand, it will be so repayable even if both bank and borrower envisaged that it would be last for some time. This must be an express term. In England & Wales, because of S6 Limitation Act 1980, time for repayment does not start running until the demand is made. This means that the debt, for example an overdraft, is not repayable without demand but will become repayable if requested; even if the parties thought it would not be repayable for some time.\n\nIn \"Sheppard & Cooper Ltd v TSB Bank Plc (No 2)\" [1996] BCC 965; [1996] 2 ALL ER 654, the plaintiff granted a fixed and floating charge over its assets. He then covenanted to pay or discharge indebtedness on-demand. At any time after indebtedness should become immediately payable, the debtor was authorised to appoint administrative receivers. Soon after a demand was made by the defendant. The plaintiff said that the best that could be done was repayment of half. The defendant appointed administrative receivers to recover the debt as outlined by the charge. The plaintiff sued and claimed claim the time was insufficient. The court held that; \"It is physically impossible in most cases for a person to keep the money required to discharge the debt about his person. Must have had reasonable opportunity of implementing reasonable mechanics of payment he may need to employ to discharge the debt.\" But a \"reasonable time\" overarching doctrine was found to be too commercially difficult. The courts have held short timelines as being more than sufficient to satisfy the request of on-demand. Walton J only accepted 45 minutes as being a reasonable period of time and in \"Cripps\" it was 60 minutes. Therefore the timing of repayment depends on circumstances but is, in commercial matters, extremely quick. If the sum demanded is of an amount which the debtor has, the time must be reasonable to enable the debtor to contact his bank and make necessary arrangements. However, if the party, as in \"Sheppard\" admits his inability to pay, Kelly CB believed that seizure was justified immediately stating \"If personal service is made and the defendants may have seized immediately afterwards.\"\n\nParties will want to avoid insolvency consequences. A bank will normally freeze a customers account when a winding up petition occurs to avoid dispositions within insolvency. A payment into an overdrawn account is probably a disposition of the company's property in favour of the bank. This is crucial differentiation as the money of an overdrawn account is going directly to a creditor. Payment into an account in credit is not a disposition of the company's property in favour of the bank, however.\n\nThe bank makes a payment out of the company's account in accordance with a valid payment instruction - there is no disposition in favour of the bank. As a result, banks traditionally freeze accounts and force insolvent parties to open new accounts.\n\nAn overdraft constitutes a loan, traditionally repayable on demand. It is a [[current account|running account]] facility (categorising alongside revolving loans) where its on-demand nature of repayment meant immediately. A bank is only obliged to provide overdraft if the bank has expressly or impliedly agreed to do so Legally, where a client overdraws his account, the client is not in breach of contract with the bank; if it did constitute a breach, then the fees charged by the bank would be penalties and corresponding not allowed. If requesting payment when there is no money in the bank account, the customer is merely requesting an overdraft. This should be noted that this is separate and distinct from credit cards; as credit cards invariably say a client must not go over the credit limit. With overdraft requests, the bank has the option not to comply with the request, although this is rare, as the banks reputation is built upon a willingness and ability to pay on behalf of clients. Often however, the bank complies and then charges a fee to ‘create a loan'.\n\n\"OFT v Abbey National\" held that \"if a bank does pay, customer has taken to have agreed to accept the bank's standards,\" which means that they have asked and the bank has provided a loan. Banks may charge interest on an overdraft and may compound that interest The point of an overdraft at law is that it is repayable on demand, however, payment instructions within the agreed overdraft limit must be honoured until notice has been given that the facility (the overdraft) is withdrawn.\n\nA committed facility is where the bank is committed to lend throughout a certain period.\nMost committed lending facilities will be documented, either by:\nThese may be more or less complex, depending on the size of the loan.\nOral assurance can give rise to an obligation to lend prior to any documentation being signed. ‘A statement made by a bank employee over the telephone that approval' had been given. Most facility letters and loan agreements will contain contractual provisions designed to protect the lender against the credit risk of the borrower. This requires several aspects. Normally it will require [[conditions precedent]], restrictions on the borrower's activities, information [[covenant (law)|covenant]]s, [[set-off (law)|set-off]] provisions, stipulations for events of default. Lenders will also traditionally take real or personal security. These are designed to protect the lender against:\nThese two objectives are achieved by providing for events that make non-payment or insolvency unappealing or transfer the risk associated with said events to third party. This highlights the difference between risk as assessed and actual risk.\n\nA common provision relates to material adverse change clauses. The borrow represents/warrants that there has been no material adverse change in its financial condition since the date of the loan agreement. This is a clause which is not often invoked or litigated and therefore the interpretation is uncertain and proof of breach is difficult. Consequences of wrongful invocation by the lender are severe.\n\nInterpretation depends on the terms of the particular clause and is up to lender to prove breach. Cannot be triggered on basis of things lender knew when making the agreement. Normally done by comparing borrower's accounts or other financial information then and now. Other compelling evidence may be enough. Will be material if it significantly affects the borrower's ability to repay the loan in question. We may examine one of the leading authorities on material adverse change clauses in committed lending, Grupo Hotelero Urvasco SA v Carey Value Added [2013] EWHC 1039 (Comm), per Blair J\n\nTherefore, a change will be material if it significantly affects the borrower's ability to repay the loan in question. Normally this is done by comparing borrower's accounts or other financial information then and now.\n\nA net position represents a financial position in which a debtor may \"off-set\" his obligation to the creditor with a mutual obligation which has arisen and is owed from the creditor to the debtor. In financial law, this may often take the form of a simple or funded position such as a securities lending transaction where mutual obligations set-off one another. Three crucial types of netting exists:\nEach party can use its own claim against the other to discharge. Each party bears credit risk which may be offset. For example, a guarantor who is a depositor with a banking institution can set-off obligations he may owe to the bank under the guarantee against the bank's obligation to repay his deposited assets.\n\nPropriety securities like [[mortgages]], charges, [[liens]], [[pledge (law)|pledge]]s and [[retention of title]] clauses are financial positions which are collateralised using proprietary assets to mitigate the risk exposure of the collateral-taker. The core purpose it to Manage credit risk by identifying certain assets and ear-marking claims to those assets.\n\nCombined positions use multiple facets of the other four positions, assembling them in various combinations to produce large, often complex, transactional structures. Examples of this category are primarily [[Collateralized debt obligations|CDO]]'s and other [[structured finance|structured products]]. For example, a [[synthetic CDO|Synthetic collateralised debt obligations]] will draw upon derivatives, syndicated lending, and asset-backed positions to distinguish the risk of the reference asset from other risks. The law pertaining to CDOs is particularly noteworthy, primarily for its use of legal concepts such as legal personality, and risk transfer to develop new products.\nThe prevalence and importance of combined positions within the financial markets, has meant that the legal underpinnings of the transactional structures are highly relevant to their enforcement and effectiveness.\n\n\n[[Category:Business law]]\n[[Category:Corporate law]]\n[[Category:Financial law| ]]"}
{"id": "27622416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27622416", "title": "Finnish Rural Party", "text": "Finnish Rural Party\n\nThe Finnish Rural Party (, SMP; , FLP) was an agrarian and populist political party in Finland. Starting as a breakaway faction of the Agrarian League in 1959, the party was identified with the person of Veikko Vennamo, a former Agrarian League Member of Parliament known for his opposition to the politics of President Urho Kekkonen. Vennamo was chairman of the Finnish Rural Party between 1959 and 1979.\n\nSupport for the party was at its highest in the 1970s and 1980s, with its share of the votes reaching around 10 percent in some parliamentary elections. In the 1990s, the party fell into financial trouble and was disbanded in 1995 (formally disolved in 2003). The True Finns party is the successor of the Finnish Rural Party.\n\nThe founder of the Finnish Rural Party was Veikko Vennamo, leader of a faction in the Agrarian League (which was renamed Centre Party in 1965). The relations of Veikko Vennamo and the Agrarian League's strong man Urho Kekkonen were icy at best, and after Kekkonen was elected president in 1956 Vennamo ran into serious disagreement with the party secretary, Arvo Korsimo, and was excluded from the parliamentary group. As a result, he immediately founded his own party in 1959.\n\nThe Finnish Rural Party started as a protest movement, with support from the unemployed and small farmers. The state-sponsored resettlement of veterans of World War II and evacuees from ceded Karelia into independent small farms provided an independent power base to Vennamo. Vennamo was the honorary chairman of \"Asutusliitto\", the resettler society, and the society was involved in early campaigning. For the newly founded party, the main carrying force was Vennamo, who was charismatic, a good orator and a skilled negotiator.\n\nThe Rural Party won in its best showing 18 seats in the Finnish parliament (which has 200 seats) in the 1970 election. The party got the exact same amount of MPs in the next election in 1972, but was soon after split in two as majority of the parliamentary group (12 MPs) resigned and established a new party called Finnish People's Unity Party (\"Suomen Kansan Yhtenäisyyden Puolue\", SKYP). The party defectors accused Vennamo of autocratic leadership. Veikko Vennamo's son, Pekka Vennamo, became the party leader when his father retired in the 1980s. Vennamo Junior had neither the charisma nor the oratorical skills of his father. Other parties noticed this, and the Rural Party was taken into the cabinet in 1983. As a protest movement without a charismatic leader, burdened with ministers participating in unpopular coalitions, the party gradually lost political support.\n\nAgricultural changes proved hard for small farmers, who sold their farms and moved to the cities. The Social Democratic Party was seen as a more credible alternative for the unemployed. Finally, the declining support of the Rural Party forced Vennamo Junior to resign. Some of the party's former MPs joined the Centre Party or retired with Vennamo. The party's last chairman and MP Raimo Vistbacka (the only one elected in 1995) was among the founders of Finns Party and became that party's first MP and chairman. The Rural Party's last party secretary Timo Soini likewise became the Finns Party's first party secretary. With the Finns Party's electoral success in the 2011 election three former Rural Party MPs returned to the parliament as the Finns Party MPs (Anssi Joutsenlahti, Lea Mäkipää, Pentti Kettunen).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26522511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26522511", "title": "Foreign personal holding company", "text": "Foreign personal holding company\n\nForeign personal holding company income (FPHCI) is defined for U.S. controlled foreign corporation rules and, with modifications, for U.S. foreign tax credit rules. It consists of interest, dividends, rents, royalties, gains on property producing FPHCI, and certain other items. Exceptions are provided for active rents and royalties, certain related party rents and royalties, same country income, and certain other items. For purposes of the foreign tax credit, an additional exception requires look-through of certain income received from a controlled foreign corporation.\n\nUnder the basic definition, there are exclusions and exceptions, which include:\n\nGenerally, the related party exclusions do not apply if the item in the hands of the payor must be allocated or apportioned to Subpart F income. Thus, rents paid by CFC1 to CFC2 would be Subpart F income to CFC2 regardless of exceptions or exclusions if CFC1 would allocate the rental expense to Subpart F activities.\n\nFor Foreign Tax Credit purposes, certain types of income are re-characterized (looked-through) based on the character of the income underlying the payment. Dividends received from a 10% or more owned controlled foreign corporation (CFC) with respect to which the recipient is a U.S. shareholder (whether or not the controlling shareholder) are re-characterized based on the earnings and profits (E&P) of the payor CFC. Interest, rents and royalties received from a similar CFC are recharacterized based on the type of income to which the payor must allocate and apportion the corresponding item of expense. Thus, if a Swiss corporation that has two owners, both U.S., pays its 20% owner interest of $1,000 and under allocation and apportionment principles its interest expense must be apportioned 42% to passive and 58% to general limitation income, then the interest income of that U.S. person from the Swiss corporation is $420 passive and $580 general limitation, and only the passive income constitutes FPHCI.\n"}
{"id": "298841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298841", "title": "Ghost mark", "text": "Ghost mark\n\nGhost marks are trademarks which closely simulate ordinary words or phrases used in the course of trade, and which are not intended to be used as genuine trade marks.\n\nIn the case of \"Imperial Group v. Philip Morris\" 1982 FSR 72, the plaintiff endeavored to register the trade mark \"MERIT\" for cigarette products, but was unable to do so on the grounds that the trade mark was too descriptive. Instead, it registered the mark \"NERIT\", without any intention of using the mark, but in order to prevent other traders from using the mark \"MERIT\" because it would be considered too similar to the registered mark \"NERIT\". The intention was the obtain a de facto monopoly over the unregisterable mark \"MERIT\". \n\nThe defendant began using the mark \"MERIT\" for cigarettes and was sued by the plaintiff for infringing its mark \"NERIT\".\n\nThe court struck down the registration for \"NERIT\" on the basis that the plaintiff had no genuine intention to use the mark (despite some \"trivial and insubstantial\" efforts at launching a NERIT-branded product).\n\nPrior to the decision in \"Imperial Group\", ghost marks were a commonplace tactical procedure for trade mark owners. Ghost marks are now rarely filed following this decision. A somewhat similar protection to that offered by ghost marks are available through the use of defensive trade marks.\n"}
{"id": "14677091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14677091", "title": "Grantor retained annuity trust", "text": "Grantor retained annuity trust\n\nA grantor-retained annuity trust (commonly referred to by the acronym GRAT), is a financial instrument commonly used in the United States to make large financial gifts to family members without paying a U.S. gift tax.\n\nA grantor transfers property into an irrevocable trust in exchange for the right to receive fixed payments at least annually, based on original fair market value of the property transferred. At the end of a specified time, any remaining value in the trust is passed on to a beneficiary of the trust as a gift. Beneficiaries are generally close family members of the grantor, such as children or grandchildren, who are prohibited from being named beneficiaries of another estate freeze technique, the grantor retained income trust. If a grantor dies before the trust period ends, the assets in the GRAT are included in the grantor's estate by operation of I.R.C. § 2036, eliminating any potential gift tax benefit; this is the GRAT's main weakness as a tax avoidance mechanism.\n\nThe United States Internal Revenue Service has a number of regulations governing how the remaining value of the trust at the end of the term (or at the death of the grantor) is taxed. When the GRAT is first set up, a \"gift value\" of the GRAT is calculated. The gift value is set equal to the initial contribution to the GRAT plus a theoretical interest earned on the principal, minus the annuity payments that would be made through the end of the term. The theoretical rate of interest is determined by IRS regulations. The rate is set equal to 120% of the federal mid-term rate during the month that the GRAT is established.\n\nTo realize a tax benefit, the sum of the scheduled annuity payments of a GRAT is set to be about equal to the principal plus theoretical interest. Thus, for tax purposes, the initially calculated gift value is zero, since what will be paid back to the donor in annuity payments is anticipated to be about equal to what the donor invested, plus interest. If a GRAT is funded with highly volatile assets, it is possible that the actual interest earned on the assets will be substantially higher than the IRS theoretical interest. Thus at the end of the term, the value remaining in the GRAT may still be large, even though the initial IRS calculation suggests that it should have been zero. This remaining value is then passed on to the beneficiary without incurring a gift tax.\n\n\nThe Wealth Transfer Group owns a patent covering different methods for managing SOGRATs. A SOGRAT is a GRAT that is at least partially funded with stock options. The patent number is , and is entitled \"Establishing and managing grantor retained annuity trusts funded by nonqualified stock options\". On 12 January 2011, the director of the USPTO initiated a reexamination of US patent 6,567,790. The reexamination serial number is 90/009,868.\n\n"}
{"id": "13985952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13985952", "title": "Henry Cadogan Rothery", "text": "Henry Cadogan Rothery\n\nHenry Cadogan Rothery (1817 – 2 August 1888) was an English lawyer and commissioner of wrecks (now known as the Receiver of Wreck), especially remembered for chairing the inquiry into the Tay Bridge disaster in 1879.\n\nRothery was born in London. His father was William Rothery, chief of the office of the King's Proctor in Doctors' Commons. Henry was educated at St. John's College, Cambridge, where he graduated B.A. in 1840, as nineteenth wrangler in the mathematical tripos, and M.A. in 1845. After leaving the university he entered Doctors' Commons, and from 1842 practised in the ecclesiastical and admiralty courts. On 26 November 1853 he was appointed registrar of the admiralty court. Soon after, he became registrar of the Privy Council in ecclesiastical and maritime cases. In 1860 he was made legal adviser to HM Treasury in questions and proceedings arising out of the slave trade. On account of his large experience gathered in the court of Admiralty, in 1876 he was appointed commissioner to inquire into the causes and circumstances of shipwrecks, and to conduct investigations into casualties at sea. He began his duties towards the close of 1876. His inquiries indicated many preventible causes of maritime losses. His judgments on fire at sea in coal-laden vessels, on certain methods of stowing grain, on ship stability, and on overloading were especially valuable.\nHe chaired the public inquiry into the Tay Bridge disaster, when an express train was lost by the collapse of the bridge across the Tay estuary on the night of December 28, 1879. He was assisted by the Chief inspector of Railways, William Yolland and William Henry Barlow, President of the Institution of Civil Engineers. The inquiry sat initially in Dundee to hear eye wintness accounts of the accident, and then at Westminster Hall in London for expert evidence. They produced their final report in June 1880, and concluded that the bridge was \"badly designed, badly built and badly maintained\". Although they all agreed on the root causes of the disaster, his fellow judges Yolland and Barlow produced their own final report which hesitated in placing the blame on the chief engineer, Thomas Bouch. He himself died a few months after the inquiry reported in June 1880. The reports were made in a remarkably short time considering the wealth of evidence they had to consider. The remains were demolished and a new bridge built alongside the old with a double line of tracks.\n\nHe married Madelina, \"née\" Garden, in 1851 but the couple had no children. He retired in the early summer of 1888 and died at Ribsden, Bagshot, Surrey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15195865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15195865", "title": "History of human rights", "text": "History of human rights\n\nWhile belief in the sanctity of human life has ancient precedents in many religions of the world, the idea of modern human rights began during the era of renaissance humanism in the early modern period. The European wars of religion and the civil wars of seventeenth-century England gave rise to the philosophy of liberalism and belief in human rights became a central concern of European intellectual culture during the eighteenth-century Age of Enlightenment. These ideas of human rights lay at the core of the American and French Revolutions which occurred toward the end of that century. Democratic evolution through the nineteenth century paved the way for the advent of universal suffrage in the twentieth century. Two world wars led to the creation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nThe post-war era saw human rights movements for special interest groups such as feminism and the civil rights of African-Americans. The human rights of members of the Soviet bloc emerged in the 1970s along with workers' rights in the West. The movement quickly jelled as social activism and political rhetoric in many nations put it high on the world agenda. By the 21st century, Moyn has argued, the human rights movement expanded beyond its original anti-totalitarianism to include numerous causes involving humanitarianism and social and economic development in the Developing World.\n\nSome notions of righteousness present in ancient law and religion are sometimes retrospectively included under the term \"human rights\". While Enlightenment philosophers suggest a secular social contract between the rulers and the ruled, ancient traditions derived similar conclusions from notions of divine law, and, in Hellenistic philosophy, natural law.\n\nThe reforms of Urukagina of Lagash, the earliest known legal code (ca. 2350 BC), is often thought to be an early example of reform. Professor Norman Yoffee wrote that after Igor M. Diakonoff \"most interpreters consider that Urukagina, himself not of the ruling dynasty at Lagash, was no reformer at all. Indeed, by attempting to curb the encroachment of a secular authority at the expense of temple prerogatives, he was, if a modern term must be applied, a reactionary.\" Author Marilyn French wrote that the discovery of penalties for adultery for women but not for men represents \"the first written evidence of the degradation of women\". The oldest legal codex extant today is the Neo-Sumerian \"Code of Ur-Nammu\" (ca. 2050 BC). Several other sets of laws were also issued in Mesopotamia, including the Code of Hammurabi (ca. 1780 BC), one of the most famous examples of this type of document. It shows rules, and punishments if those rules are broken, on a variety of matters, including women's rights, men's rights, children's rights and slave rights.\n\nThe Northeast African civilization of Ancient Egypt supported basic human rights. For example, Pharaoh Bocchoris (725-720 BC) promoted individual rights, suppressed imprisonment for debt, and reformed laws relating to the transferral of property. \n\nSome historians suggest that the Achaemenid Persian Empire of ancient Iran established unprecedented principles of human rights in the 6th century BC under Cyrus the Great. After his conquest of Babylon in 539 BC, the king issued the Cyrus cylinder, discovered in 1879 and seen by some today as the first human rights document. The cylinder has been linked by some commentators to the decrees of Cyrus recorded in the Books of Chronicles, Nehemiah, and Ezra, which state that Cyrus allowed (at least some of) the Jews to return to their homeland from their Babylonian Captivity.\n\nIn opposition to the above viewpoint, the interpretation of the Cylinder as a \"charter of human rights\" has been dismissed by other historians and characterized by some others as political propaganda devised by the Pahlavi regime. The German historian Josef Wiesehöfer argues that the image of \"Cyrus as a champion of the UN human rights policy ... is just as much a phantom as the humane and enlightened Shah of Persia\", while historian Elton L. Daniel has described such an interpretation as \"rather anachronistic\" and tendentious. The cylinder now lies in the British Museum, and a replica is kept at the United Nations Headquarters.\n\nMany thinkers point to the concept of citizenship beginning in the early poleis of ancient Greece, where all free citizens had the right to speak and vote in the political assembly.\n\nThe Twelve Tables Law established the principle \"Privilegia ne irroganto\", which literally means \"privileges shall not be imposed\".\n\nA declaration for religious tolerance on an egalitarian basis can be found in the Edicts of Ashoka, which emphasize the importance of tolerance in public policy by the government. The slaughter or capture of prisoners of war was also condemned by Ashoka. Some sources claim that slavery was also non-existent in ancient India. Others state, however, that slavery existed in ancient India, where it is recorded in the Sanskrit Laws of Manu of the 1st century BC.\n\nIn ancient Rome a \"ius\" or \"jus\" was a right which a citizen was due simply by dint of his citizenship. The concept of a Roman \"ius\" is a precursor to a right as conceived in the Western European tradition. The word \"justice\" is derived from \"ius\".\n\nHistorians generally agree that Muhammad preached against what he saw as the social evils of his day, and that Islamic social reforms in areas such as social security, family structure, slavery, and the rights of women and ethnic minorities were intended to improve on what was present in existing Arab society at the time. For example, according to Bernard Lewis, Islam \"from the first denounced aristocratic privilege, rejected hierarchy, and adopted a formula of the career open to the talents.\" John Esposito sees Muhammad as a reformer who condemned practices of the pagan Arabs such as female infanticide, exploitation of the poor, usury, murder, false contracts, and theft. Bernard Lewis believes that the egalitarian nature of Islam \"represented a very considerable advance on the practice of both the Greco-Roman and the ancient Persian world.\" Muhammed also incorporated Arabic and Mosaic laws and customs of the time into his divine revelations.\n\nThe Constitution of Medina, also known as the \"Charter of Medina\", was drafted by Muhammad in 622. It constituted a formal agreement between Muhammad and all of the significant tribes and families of Yathrib (later known as Medina), including Muslims, Jews, and pagans. The document was drawn up with the explicit concern of bringing to an end the bitter intertribal fighting between the clans of the Aws (Aus) and Khazraj within Medina. To this effect it instituted a number of rights and responsibilities for the Muslim, Jewish and pagan communities of Medina bringing them within the fold of one community-the Ummah.\n\nIf the prisoners were in the custody of a person, then the responsibility was on the individual. Lewis states that Islam brought two major changes to ancient slavery which were to have far-reaching consequences. \"One of these was the presumption of freedom; the other, the ban on the enslavement of free persons except in strictly defined circumstances,\" Lewis continues. The position of the Arabian slave was \"enormously improved\": the Arabian slave \"was now no longer merely a chattel but was also a human being with a certain religious and hence a social status and with certain quasi-legal rights.\"\n\nEsposito states that reforms in women's rights affected marriage, divorce and inheritance. Women were not accorded with such legal status in other cultures, including the West, until centuries later. \"The Oxford Dictionary of Islam\" states that the general improvement of the status of Arab women included prohibition of female infanticide and recognizing women's full personhood. \"The dowry, previously regarded as a bride-price paid to the father, became a nuptial gift retained by the wife as part of her personal property.\" Under Islamic law, marriage was no longer viewed as a \"status\" but rather as a \"contract\", in which the woman's consent was imperative. \"Women were given inheritance rights in a patriarchal society that had previously restricted inheritance to male relatives.\" Annemarie Schimmel states that \"compared to the pre-Islamic position of women, Islamic legislation meant an enormous progress; the woman has the right, at least according to the letter of the law, to administer the wealth she has brought into the family or has earned by her own work.\" William Montgomery Watt states that Muhammad, in the historical context of his time, can be seen as a figure who testified on behalf of women's rights and improved things considerably. Watt explains: \"At the time Islam began, the conditions of women were terrible—they had no right to own property, were supposed to be the property of the man, and if the man died everything went to his sons.\" Muhammad, however, by \"instituting rights of property ownership, inheritance, education and divorce, gave women certain basic safeguards.\" Haddad and Esposito state that \"Muhammad granted women rights and privileges in the sphere of family life, marriage, education, and economic endeavors, rights that help improve women's status in society.\" However, other writers have argued that women before Islam were more liberated drawing most often on the first marriage of Muhammad and that of Muhammad's parents, but also on other points such as worship of female idols at Mecca.\n\nSociologist Robert Bellah (\"Beyond belief\") argues that Islam in its 7th-century origins was, for its time and place, \"remarkably modern...in the high degree of commitment, involvement, and participation expected from the rank-and-file members of the community.\" This is because, he argues, that Islam emphasized the equality of all Muslims, where leadership positions were open to all. Dale Eickelman writes that Bellah suggests \"the early Islamic community placed a particular value on individuals, as opposed to collective or group responsibility.\"\n\nMagna Carta is an English charter originally issued in 1215 which influenced the development of the common law and many later constitutional documents, such as the United States Constitution and the Bill of Rights.\n\nMagna Carta was originally written because of disagreements amongst Pope Innocent III, King John and the English barons about the rights of the King. Magna Carta required the King to renounce certain rights, respect certain legal procedures and accept that his will could be bound by the law. It explicitly protected certain rights of the King's subjects, whether free or fettered—most notably the writ of habeas corpus, allowing appeal against unlawful imprisonment.\n\nFor modern times, the most enduring legacy of Magna Carta is considered the right of habeas corpus. This right arises from what are now known as clauses 36, 38, 39, and 40 of the 1215 Magna Carta. The Magna Carta also included the right to due process:\n\nThe conquest of the Americas in the 15th and 16th centuries by Spain, during the Age of Discovery, resulted in vigorous debate about human rights in Colonial Spanish America. This led to the issuance of the Laws of Burgos by Ferdinand the Catholic on behalf of his daughter, Joanna of Castile. Fray Antonio de Montesinos, a Friar of the Dominican Order at the Island of Hispaniola, delivered a sermon on December 21, 1511, which was attended by Bartolomé de las Casas. It is believed that reports from the Dominicans in Hispaniola motivated the Spanish Crown to act. The sermon, known as the Christmas Sermon, gave way to further debates from 1550-51 between Las Casas and Juan Ginés de Sepúlveda at Valladolid. Among the provisions of the Laws of Burgos were child labor; women's rights; wages; suitable accommodations; and rest/vacation, among others.\n\nSeveral 17th- and 18th-century European philosophers, most notably John Locke, developed the concept of \"natural rights\", the notion that people are naturally free and equal. Though Locke believed natural rights were derived from divinity since humans were creations of God, his ideas were important in the development of the modern notion of rights. Lockean natural rights did not rely on citizenship nor any law of the state, nor were they necessarily limited to one particular ethnic, cultural or religious group. Around the same time, in 1689, the English Bill of Rights was created which asserted some basic human rights, most famously freedom from cruel and unusual punishment.\n\nIn the 1700s, the novel became a popular form of entertainment. Popular novels, such as \"Julie, or the New Heloise\" by Jean-Jacques Rousseau and \"Pamela; or, Virtue Rewarded\" by Samuel Richardson, laid a foundation for popular acceptance of human rights by making readers empathize with characters unlike themselves.\n\nTwo major revolutions occurred during the 18th century in the United States (1776) and in France (1789). The Virginia Declaration of Rights of 1776 sets up a number of fundamental rights and freedoms. The later United States Declaration of Independence includes concepts of natural rights and famously states \"that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness\". Similarly, the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen defines a set of individual and collective rights of the people. These are, in the document, held to be universal—not only to French citizens but to \"all men without exception\".\n\nPhilosophers such as Thomas Paine, John Stuart Mill and Hegel expanded on the theme of universality during the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nIn 1831 William Lloyd Garrison wrote in a newspaper called \"The Liberator\" that he was trying to enlist his readers in \"the great cause of human rights\" so the term \"human rights\" probably came into use sometime between Paine's \"The Rights of Man\" and Garrison's publication. In 1849, a contemporary, Henry David Thoreau, wrote about human rights in his treatise \"On the Duty of Civil Disobedience\" which was later influential on human rights and civil rights thinkers. United States Supreme Court Justice David Davis, in his 1867 opinion for \"Ex parte Milligan\", wrote: \"By the protection of the law, human rights are secured; withdraw that protection and they are at the mercy of wicked rulers or the clamor of an excited people.\"\n\nMany groups and movements have managed to achieve profound social changes over the course of the 20th century in the name of human rights. In Western Europe and North America, labour unions brought about laws granting workers the right to strike, establishing minimum work conditions and forbidding or regulating child labour. The women's rights movement succeeded in gaining for many women the right to vote. National liberation movements in many countries succeeded in driving out colonial powers. One of the most influential was Mahatma Gandhi's movement to free his native India from British rule. Movements by long-oppressed racial and religious minorities succeeded in many parts of the world, among them the civil rights movement, and more recent diverse identity politics movements, on behalf of women and minorities in the United States.\n\nThe foundation of the International Committee of the Red Cross, the 1864 Lieber Code and the first of the Geneva Conventions in 1864 laid the foundations of international humanitarian law, to be further developed following the two World Wars.\n\nThe League of Nations was established in 1919 at the negotiations over the Treaty of Versailles following the end of World War I. The League's goals included disarmament, preventing war through collective security, settling disputes between countries through negotiation, diplomacy and improving global welfare. Enshrined in its Charter was a mandate to promote many of the rights which were later included in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nThe League of Nations had mandates to support many of the former colonies of the Western European colonial powers during their transition from colony to independent state.\n\nEstablished as an agency of the League of Nations, and now part of United Nations, the International Labour Organization also had a mandate to promote and safeguard certain of the rights later included in the UDHR:\n\nThe Geneva Conventions came into being between 1864 and 1949 as a result of efforts by Henry Dunant, the founder of the International Committee of the Red Cross. The conventions safeguard the human rights of individuals involved in conflict, and follow on from the 1899 and 1907 Hague Conventions, the international community's first attempt to define laws of war. Despite first being framed before World War II, the conventions were revised as a result of World War II and readopted by the international community in 1949.\n\nThe Geneva Conventions are:\n\n\nIn addition, there are three additional amendment protocols to the Geneva Convention:\n\n\nAll four conventions were last revised and ratified in 1949, based on previous revisions and partly on some of the 1907 Hague Conventions. Later, conferences have added provisions prohibiting certain methods of warfare and addressing issues of civil wars. Nearly all 200 countries of the world are \"signatory\" nations, in that they have ratified these conventions. The International Committee of the Red Cross is the controlling body of the Geneva conventions.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is a non-binding declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, partly in response to the barbarism of World War II. The UDHR urges member nations to promote a number of human, civil, economic and social rights, asserting these rights are part of the \"foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world\".\n\nThe UDHR was framed by members of the Human Rights Commission, with Eleanor Roosevelt as Chair, who began to discuss an \"International Bill of Rights\" in 1947. The members of the Commission did not immediately agree on the form of such a bill of rights, and whether, or how, it should be enforced. The Commission proceeded to frame the UDHR and accompanying treaties, but the UDHR quickly became the priority. Canadian law professor John Humphrey and French lawyer Rene Cassin were responsible for much of the cross-national research and the structure of the document respectively, where the articles of the declaration were interpretative of the general principle of the preamble. The document was structured by Cassin to include the basic principles of dignity, liberty, equality and brotherhood in the first two articles, followed successively by rights pertaining to individuals; rights of individuals in relation to each other and to groups; spiritual, public and political rights; and economic, social and cultural rights. The final three articles place, according to Cassin, rights in the context of limits, duties and the social and political order in which they are to be realized. Humphrey and Cassin intended the rights in the UDHR to be legally enforceable through some means, as is reflected in the third clause of the preamble:\n\nSome of the UDHR was researched and written by a committee of international experts on human rights, including representatives from all continents and all major religions, and drawing on consultation with leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi. The inclusion of both civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights was predicated on the assumption that basic human rights are indivisible and that the different types of rights listed are inextricably linked. Though this principle was not opposed by any member states at the time of adoption (the declaration was adopted unanimously, with the abstention of the Soviet Bloc, Apartheid South Africa and Saudi Arabia), this principle was later subject to significant challenges.\n\nAccording to historian Samuel Moyn the next major landmark in human rights happened in the 1970s. Human right was included in point VII of Helsinki Accords, which was signed in 1975 by thirty-five states, including the United States, Canada, and all European states except Albania and Andorra.\n\nDuring his inaugural speech in 1977, the 39th President of United States Jimmy Carter made human rights a pillar of United States foreign policy. Human rights advocacy organization Amnesty International later won Nobel Peace Prize also in 1977. Carter, who was instrumental in Camp David accord peace treaty would himself later won Nobel Peace Prize in 2002 \"for his decades of untiring effort to find peaceful solutions to international conflicts, to advance democracy and human rights, and to promote economic and social development\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22476404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22476404", "title": "Hong Kong Letters Patent 1917", "text": "Hong Kong Letters Patent 1917\n\nThe Hong Kong Letters Patent 1917 was one of the principal constitutional instruments of Hong Kong when she was a British Crown colony and dependent territory; the other principal constitutional instruments were the Hong Kong Letters Patent 1960, the Hong Kong Letters Patent 1982, the Hong Kong Letters Patent 1991 (No. 1), and the Hong Kong Royal Instructions 1917. The Hong Kong Letters Patent 1917 has been amended many times since its coming into force.\n\nThe Hong Kong Letters Patent 1917 superseded the letters patent issued on 5 April 1843, all subsequent letters patent amending the 1843 one, and the letters patent issued on 19 January 1888 (which replaced the 1843 letters patent and all those amending the 1843 one). The 1917 letters patent, as amended from time to time, remained part of the basis for Hong Kong's system of government until the transfer of the territory's sovereignty on 1 July 1997 to the People's Republic of China.\n\nIssued under the royal prerogative, the letters patent was the formal legal basis of the office of Governor and Commander-in-Chief, the Executive Council, and the Legislative Council.\n\nAfter the transfer of sovereignty to China, the Hong Kong Letters Patent 1917 ceased to have legal effect, as it is superseded by the new Basic Law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19551888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19551888", "title": "INID", "text": "INID\n\nINID is an acronym for Internationally agreed Numbers for the Identification of (bibliographic) Data. INID codes are used by patent offices worldwide for indicating specific bibliographic data items on the title pages of patents and patent application publications. INID codes use Arabic numerals, and so are language-independent. For example, number \"(30)\" indicates priority data, and \"(51)\" technical area according to the International Patent Classification (IPC).\n\nINID codes are standardised by World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in ST.9.\n"}
{"id": "16319545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16319545", "title": "Illegitimacy in fiction", "text": "Illegitimacy in fiction\n\nThis is a list of fictional stories in which illegitimacy features as an important plot element. Passing mentions are omitted from this article. Many of these stories explore the social pain and exclusion felt by illegitimate \"natural children\".\n\nIllegitimacy was a common theme in Victorian literature. \"Illegitimacy was a popular subject for Victorian writers, not only because of its value as a plot device, but also because of the changing laws affecting illegitimate children and their parents which kept the topic in the public eye.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2800168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2800168", "title": "Kyllo v. United States", "text": "Kyllo v. United States\n\nKyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27 (2001), held in a 5–4 decision that the use of a thermal imaging, or FLIR, device from a public vantage point to monitor the radiation of heat from a person's home was a \"search\" within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment, and thus required a warrant.\n\nOn January 16, 1992, the United States Department of the Interior used a thermal imaging device outside of Danny Lee Kyllo's home in Florence, Oregon. According to the District Court that presided over Kyllo's evidentiary hearing, the device could not \"penetrate walls or windows to reveal conversations or human activities. The device recorded only heat being emitted from the home.\" The device showed that there was an unusual amount of heat radiating from the roof and side walls of the garage compared with the rest of his house. (The assumption is that to grow marijuana indoors, one needs to provide a large amount of light in order for the plants to photosynthesize.) This information was subsequently used to obtain a search warrant, where federal agents discovered over 100 marijuana plants growing in Kyllo's home. Kyllo was charged with growing marijuana in his Oregon home. Kyllo first tried to suppress the evidence obtained from the thermal imaging search, but then he pleaded a conditional guilty. \n\nKyllo appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on the grounds that observations with a thermal-imaging device constituted a search under the Fourth Amendment. After issuing and withdrawing multiple opinions, on September 9, 1999, the Ninth Circuit upheld admission of the evidence, in an opinion by Judge Michael Daly Hawkins joined by Melvin T. Brunetti, with John T. Noonan Jr. dissenting.\n\nKyllo then petitioned the Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari, which was granted.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that the thermal imaging of Kyllo's home constituted a search. Since the police did not have a warrant when they used the device, which was not commonly available to the public, the search was presumptively unreasonable and therefore unconstitutional. The majority opinion argued that a person has an expectation of privacy in his or her home and therefore, the government cannot conduct unreasonable searches, even with technology that does not enter the home. Justice Scalia also discussed how future technology can invade on one's right of privacy and therefore authored the opinion so that it protected against more sophisticated surveillance equipment. As a result, Justice Scalia asserted that the difference between \"off the wall\" surveillance and \"through the wall\" surveillance was non-existent because both methods physically intruded upon the privacy of the home. Scalia created a \"firm but also bright\" line drawn by the Fourth Amendment at the \"'entrance to the house.'\" This line is meant to protect the home from all types of warrantless surveillance and is an interpretation of what he called \"the long view\" of the Fourth Amendment. The dissent thought this line was \"unnecessary, unwise, and inconsistent with the Fourth Amendment\" because according to Scalia's previous logic, this firm but bright line would be defunct as soon as the surveillance technology used went into general public use, which was still undefined.\n\nIn the dissent Justice John Paul Stevens argued that the use of thermal imaging does not constitute a search, which requires a warrant, because any person could detect the heat emissions. He argued that this could be done by simply feeling that some areas in or around the house are warmer than others or observing that snow was melting more quickly on certain sections of the house. Since the public could gather this information, Stevens argued, there is no need for a warrant and the use of this technique is not unconstitutional. Moreover, Stevens asserted that the use of the thermal imaging device was merely \"off-the-wall\" surveillance because it did not detect any \"intimate\" details of Kyllo's home. Finally, Stevens commented on Kyllo's trying to incorporate something as intangible, fluid and public as heat into the private sphere. He explained, \"Heat waves, like aromas that are generated in a kitchen, or in a laboratory or opium den, enter the public domain if and when they leave a building.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45220478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45220478", "title": "Lagos Treaty of Cession", "text": "Lagos Treaty of Cession\n\nThe Treaty of Cession, 6 August 1861 or the Lagos Treaty of Cession was a treaty between Great Britain (represented by Norman B. Bedingfield, Commander of HMS Prometheus and William McCoskry, Acting Consul to Lagos) and Oba Dosunmu of Lagos (spelled 'Docemo' in British documents) representing Lagos.\n\nIn Britain's early 19th century fight against the Trans Atlantic Slave Trade, its West Africa Squadron or Preventative Squadron as it was also known, continued to pursue Portuguese, American, French, and Cuban slave ships and to impose anti-slavery treaties with West African coastal chiefs with so much doggedness that they created a strong presence along the West African coast from Sierra Leone all the way to the Niger Delta (today's Nigeria) and as far south as Congo. In 1849, Britain appointed John Beecroft Consul of the Bights of Benin and Biafra, a position he held (along with his governorship of Fernando Po) until his death in 1854. John Duncan was appointed Vice Consul and was located at Wydah. At the time of Beecroft's appointment, the Kingdom of Lagos (under Oba Kosoko) was in the western part of the Consulate of the Bights of Benin and Biafra and was a key slave trading port. In 1851 and with pressure from liberated slaves who now wielded political and business influence, Britain intervened in Lagos in what is now known as the Bombardment of Lagos or Reduction of Lagos resulting in the installation of Oba Akitoye (and the ouster of Oba Kosoko) who signed the Treaty Between Great Britain and Lagos, 1 January 1852. The signing of the 1852 treaty ushered in the Consular Period in Lagos' history wherein Britain provided military protection to Lagos.\n\nFollowing threats from Kosoko and the French who were positioned at Wydah, a decision was made by Lord Palmerston (British Prime Minister) who noted \"the expediency of losing no time in assuming the formal Protectorate of Lagos\". William McCoskry, the Acting Consul in Lagos with Commander Bedingfield convened a meeting with Oba Dosunmu on July 30, 1861 aboard HMS Prometheus where Britain's intent was explained and a response to the terms were required by August 1861. Dosunmu resisted the terms of the treaty but under the threat to unleash violence on Lagos by Commander Bedingfield, Dosunmu relented and signed the treaty.\n\nThe text of the Lagos Treaty of Cession is transcribed below:\n\n\"Treaty between Norman B. Bedingfeld, Commander of Her Majesty’s ship Prometheus, and Senior Officer of the Bights Division, and William McCoskry, Esquire, Her Britannic Majesty’s Acting Consul, on the part of Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain, and Docemo, King of Lagos, on the part of himself and Chiefs\".\n\nArticle I\n\n\"In order that the Queen of England may be the better enabled to assist, defend, and protect the inhabitants of Lagos, and to put an end to the Slave Trade in this and the neighboring counties, and to prevent the destructive wars so frequently undertaken by Dahomey and others for the capture of the slaves, I, Docemo, do, with the consent and advice of my Council, give, transfer, and by these presents grant and confirm unto the Queen of Great Britain, her heirs, and successors forever, the port and Island of Lagos with all the rights, profits, territories, and appurtenances whatsoever thereunto belonging, and as well the profits and revenue as the direct, full, and absolute dominion and sovereignty of the said port, island, and premises, with all royalties thereof, freely, fully and entirely and absolutely. I do also covenant and grant that the quiet and peaceable possession thereof shall with all possible speed, be freely and effectually delivered to the Queen of Great Britain, or such person as Her Majesty shall thereunto appoint for her use in the performance of this grant; the inhabitants of said island and territories, as the Queen’s subjects, and under her sovereignty, Crown, jurisdiction, and government, being still suffered to live there\"\nArticle II\n\"Docemo will be allowed the use of the title of King in its usual African signification, and will be permitted to decide disputes between natives of Lagos with their consent, subject to appeal to British laws.\"\nArticle III\n\"In the transfer of lands, the stamp of Docemo affixed to the document will be proof that there are no other native claims upon it, and for this purpose he will be permitted to use it as hitherto.\"\n\"In consideration of the cession as before-mentioned of the port and island and territories of Lagos, the Representatives of the Queen of Great Britain do promise, subject to the approval of Her Majesty, that Docemo shall receive an annual pension from the Queen of Great Britain equal to the net revenue hitherto annually received by him; such pension to be paid at such periods and in such mode as may hereafter be determined\"\n\nLAGOS, August 6, 1861\nSigned\nDOCEMO\nTELAKE\nOBALEKOW\nNORMAN B. BEDINGFIELD Her Majesty’s ship Prometheus, Senior Officer, Bights Division\nW. McCOSKRY, Acting Consul\n"}
{"id": "14606205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14606205", "title": "Limits on Depreciation Deduction", "text": "Limits on Depreciation Deduction\n\nSection 280F was enacted to limit certain deductions on depreciable assets. Section 280F is a policy that makes the Internal Revenue Code more accurate by allowing a taxpayer to report their business use on an asset they may also need for some personal reasons.\n\nTo put 280F in context a general understanding of 167(a) and 179 is useful.\n\nSection 167(a) allows a depreciation deduction for property used in the trade or business of the taxpayer. If property is used partially for business and partially for personal use, the basis of the property must be allocated between those uses.\n\nUnder Section 179, a taxpayer may elect to expense (deduct) all or a portion of the cost of the depreciable property purchased during the taxable year if it was intended to have a business use, despite generally having to capitalize this property. However, Section 280F was enacted to limit these deductions on certain listed property.\n\nListed property includes luxury automobiles as well as the other assets listed in 280F(d)(4). For passenger automobiles, section 280F(a)(1)(A) limits the depreciation deduction by listing the amounts a taxpayer can deduct in the years following its purchase. These listed amounts are subject to an adjustment for inflation under 280F(d)(7).(a) The sum for 2007, after adjustment for inflation, is $12,800. These limits seem to reflect what the legislature means by using the term \"luxury automobile.\"\n\nPassenger automobiles fall within the definition of \"listed property\" as well. 280F(d)(4)(i), see also Ferrada v. Commissioner, T.C. Summary Opinion 2004-93 (2004). Other \"listed property\" is subjected to more limitations, under 168(g), if it is \"not predominantly used in a qualified business.\" 280F(b)(1). If listed property is not used for a qualified business, the accelerated depreciation deductions will be recaptured under 280F(b)(2). Whether a listed property qualifies as being used predominantly for business is determined by section 280F(b)(3).\n\nUnder 280F(b)(3), if the business use is less than 50%, only straight-line depreciation may be used. Even if the taxpayer uses the automobile, or other listed property, exclusively for business use, the depreciation deductions are still limited by 280F(b)(3). There are some exceptions as seen in 280F(d)(5)(B) and 280F(d)(6)(C).\n\n"}
{"id": "22137753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22137753", "title": "List of trademarks featuring Native Americans", "text": "List of trademarks featuring Native Americans\n\nThis list is for trademarks of corporations and organizations which feature an actual or stylised Native American figure.\n\n"}
{"id": "54878012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54878012", "title": "Military Police (Albania)", "text": "Military Police (Albania)\n\nThe Albanian Military Police (MP) () is a provost independent branch of the Albanian Armed Forces responsible for the policing of service personnel, and for providing a military police presence both in Albania and while service personnel are deployed overseas on operations and exercises. The PU it is under the authority of Ministry of Defence. Its tasks increase during wartime to include traffic control organisation and POW and refugee control. The Military Police are distinguished from other units by their wearing of black uniform and the blue brassard worn around the left upper arm, with the \"MP\" lettering in white, symbol of military police.\n\nAfter the fall of the 50-years communist regime of Albania, there was a need to reform the Armed Forces in all its pertinent structures. On 1 February 1992, the Military Police was established upon approval by Parliament of \"Law No. 511, dated 08.08.1991, \"On the Military Police in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Albania\"\". The purpose of this structure was to strengthen order and discipline in AAF and it was considered as an essential thing to transform the Army according to NATO countries’ standards.\n\nWith the creation of MP, the focus of its work was to control military vehicle traffic, maintenance of military rule in order to strengthen discipline in AF. In December 1994, attached to MP, were created the structures of \"Criminal Police\" and \"Fire Fighting Service\". In early 1995, the MP branch in General Staff was transformed into the MP directorate commanded by Brig. Gen. Bajram Malaj. Through legal support, regulations and its professionalism growing day by day, the MP ranked among the best units of the Armed Forces.\n\nAfter the events of 1997, the MP Director was Col. Piro Lutaj. It should be noted that after the events of 1997, MP had a tremendous growth on the basis of a project with the Italian Delegation of Experts (DIE). At that time, with the assistance of Italian specialists, for the first time, the MP battalion was created in Tirana, which was equipped with the necessary logistics and materials, and it was conceived according to Italian Carabinieri battalions. The establishment of MP battalion in Tirana marks a qualitative leap in the activity of this modern structure and the most qualitative of the time, which became apparent in the events of 1998, when the MP not only suffered any damage, but it defended several state institutions such as, the Radio Televizioni Shqiptar, Albtelecom, General Prosecutor’s Office and several international institutions.\n\nEquipment of MP battalion in Tirana, with the necessary technique and armoured vehicles Iveco VM 90, played a huge role in the events of 1998 in Albania. This structure played an undeniable role in 1999, during the Kosovo crisis, when it had the major role for the welcome, escorting and treatment of refugees at camps set up in Kukës, Tirana, Durrës and other cities around the country, keeping under control the situation in the areas of Kukës, Krumë, Tropojë, especially at border posts, solving many difficult situations, escorting convoys and personalities that travelled to north and back, as well as maintaining control of the road network across the country, especially in the north. The events of 1997, 1998 and the Kosovo crisis are the most important events in the history of MP.\n\nIn late 2000, with the suppression of the structure of the MP Directorate, by the Order of the Ministry of Defence no. 1, dated 01.05.2001, “On the organization of the Military Police Regiment”, the Military Police Regiment was established and its commander was Lieutenant colonel Namik Goga. This structure exercised its activity until September 2003, protecting and safeguarding all exercises that took place on the territory of the country. In September 2003, the MP structure was transformed into a battalion structure based in Tirana and its commander was Lieutenant colonel Xhevahir Avdia, who held this office until 2005. In 2005 the commander of the battalion was appointed Lieutenant colonel Drini Nikolla, who held this office until 2008.\n\nIn July 2007, the MP battalion became an organic part of the Support Command, and its administrative management was subordinated to the Support Command, while its Operational Commanding was subordinated to the General Staff. Part of the battalion were four sections of MP in Shkodër, Durrës, Berat, Vlorë and five subsections of MP, in Kukës, Burrel, Elbasan, Korcë and Gjirokastër, where the sectors of Criminal Police, Judicial Police, vehicle traffic, Fire Fighting and Rescue conducted their activities.\n\nIn 2008, Colonel Xhevdet Zeneli became commander of the MP battalion. In May 2010, the structure of the Military Police was named Military Police of the Armed Forces in compliance with Law \"No. 9069 dated 15.05.200, “On the Military Police of the Armed Forces\"\", and MP continues to have this structure nowadays.\n\nDuring these years, MP is trained by the specialists of Italian Carabineers, U.S, German and Turkish military police.\n\nFor years, MP, through a special program, is preparing a sub-unit of platoon-level NRF (NATO Response Force), a force ready to act as part of NATO relevant structure, capable and suitably equipped to perform such duties.\n\nSo far, around 50 people of Military Police have been part of different missions abroad, in Iraq and Afghanistan, in support of the Armed Forces and various international HQs. MP has also conducted a mission in “ISAF” military operation, in Kabul, Afghanistan. This platoon consisted of 22 people.\n\nMaintaining order in the AAF, detection, prevention and prosecution of criminal activity, engagement in the fight against terrorism, participation in peacekeeping and humanitarian operations and protection of state property managed and used by the Armed Forces.\n\nThe PU tasks include:\n\n\nThe Albanian MP structure, located in Tirana, consists of the following elements:\n\n\nSince 2013, the Military Police uses three uniforms, including the Combat-Uniform (ACU), the Service Uniform (ASU) and the Ceremonial Uniform. Both of Service and Ceremonial uniforms are on black. The ACU usually it is the same pattern of the standard uniform of the Albanian Land Forces, but together with the service uniform, it distinguishes from other militaries officers by a blue brassard worn around the left upper arm, with the \"MP\" lettering in white. This patch is attached to the uniform by hook and loop fastener.\n\nIn the modernization programme of the AAF, particular attention was paid to the Military Police. To bring them up to NATO standards, current efforts focus on upgrading equipment and armaments, enhancing their operational effectiveness, and combat training. <br> Although the MP employs various individual weapons to provide light firepower at short ranges, the standard weapon used by the ground force is the Beretta ARX160, which since 2015 has entirely replaced AK-47 variants. Also as the standard handgun, the MP uses Beretta PX4 9×19mm Parabellum which is widely used by all Albanian Armed Forces.<br> Support fire is provided by the Heckler & Koch MG4 light machine gun and the Heckler & Koch MG5 general-purpose machine gun. The most used sniper rifles are the Sako TRG-22 and TRG-44 to give the infantry a long-range weapon. The semi-automatic shotgun Benelli M4 Super 90 is used for door breaching and close-quarters combat. Hand grenades, fragmentation and smoke grenades along with the grenade launcher systems, such as the GLX160, are also used.\n\nSince late 90's, the Military Police mostly operates with two variants of the Iveco VM 90 military vehicle. The VM 90T \"Torpedo used as transport vehicle and the VM 90P \"Protetto which is used as armored vehicle for interventions in combat situations. However, the vehicle will remain in service until the completion of their lifecycle, since their replacement has started in 2015 in favor of Iveco LMV.\n\nIn 2015, four Iveco LMV armored vehicles were made available to the MP. These vehicles will serve to increase the technical and operational capacities of the Military Police missions and duties as well as to develop, complete and increase the operational level of the unit to perform difficult operations in high-risk areas and beyond.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57904579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57904579", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Cape Verde)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Cape Verde)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Labor of Cape Verde oversees the operations of the prison officers, judicial police (Policia Judiciaria), official justice (Cofre Geral de Justica), notaries, and other legal professionals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35320735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35320735", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Russia)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Russia)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation (Министе́рство юсти́ции Росси́йской Федера́ции, Миню́ст Росси́и) is the central government body charged with leading the legal and penal system of Russia.\n\nThe current Justice Minister is Aleksandr Konovalov.\n\nAccording to the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation from 13 October 2004 (as amended on 23 October 2008) and in accordance with other regulations, the Ministry of Justice is engaged in the elaboration and implementation of public policies and regulatory control, as well as performs law enforcement duties and functions of control and supervision in the areas of:\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of the Russian Empire was founded on 8 September 1802 by Manifesto of Alexander I \"On the establishment of ministries.\" The same document as part of the government provided for the post of Minister of Justice, and he also served as Attorney General of the Russian Empire.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice has been designated as the preparation of legislative acts, as well as the management of courts and prosecutors. It dealt with the appointment, transfer, dismissal of officials of judicial departments, agencies and the abolition of the courts, supervised their work.\n\nThe first Minister of Justice was the General Prosecutor of the Russian Empire, Gavriil Romanovich Derzhavin.\n\nOn 1864 in Russia, the judicial reform was held, in the preparation and conduct of which the Ministry of Justice has taken an active part, the powers of the Ministry of Justice significantly expanded. At all stages of judicial reform, the role of the Ministry of Justice, was significant, even decisive. Ministry of Justice carried out the management of the judiciary, and prison management of landmark pieces, notaries. As director of personnel of the court and prosecutors, it was the right appointment and dismissal of the investigators on the most important cases in district courts and municipal judges and members of the county district court. The Ministry has introduced the world's institutions of judges and jurors, directly managed the activities of prosecutors, and manage places of detention. Department have sufficient authority to establish and enforce legal policy of the state.\n\nOn the proposal of the Ministry of Justice of the Act of 16 June 1884 was enhanced sentence for embezzlement and theft of service, including those of the privileged classes. At the request of the Ministry of Justice, 26 May 1881 was canceled public executions. In the area of civil rights 19 May 1881 were compiled by the Ministry of Justice rules on how to strengthen the rights of real estate.\n\nAll legislative proposals submitted to the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice prior to making them for consideration by the Council of State, on the 1881 bills other departments began to arrive at the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice not only to evaluate them from a legal perspective, but also to harmonize with the existing laws.\n\nLegislation Ministry of Justice of the late 19th century - early 20th century was characterized by a focus on individual rights. In 1897, a draft bill to amend the order of the excitation of questions about the responsibility of governors, in 1903 - the draft law on probation, which was completely new and very democratic institution in Russia, in the same year, the Ministry of Justice was designed by disciplinary regulations governing the punishment of official misconduct, and in 1904, a draft law on some of the changes in the prosecution of criminal liability, and public order offenses. In the same year the Ministry of Justice approved the regulations on the procedure of the prison department of civil political prisoners.\n\nSince the mid-19th century, the Ministers of Justice is actively engaged in international activities: chairing the International Tribunal, were members of a permanent International Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The aim was to inform the Ministry of Justice Ministers on approval of the statutes of newly created organizations and societies, and the Minister was obliged to submit to Emperor weekly personal or written reports on the status of assigned cases.\n\nAfter the October Revolution of 1917, the Ministry of Justice was transformed into the People's Commissariat of Justice. The practical implementation of the Decree № 1 \"On Court\" demanded that the judiciary efforts related to the formation of vessels and the selection of personnel for them. Prominently in the work of the Commissariat of Justice took the creation of new legislation. Accepted 30 January 1928 Resolution of the Communist Central Executive Committee and People's Commissar of Justice were directly subordinated to the prosecutor, and as Vice Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic..\n\nSubsequently, the powers of the People's Commissariat of Justice has undergone radical changes - in 1936 the prosecutor's office was separated into an independent agency.\n\nOn 1991 the Soviet Justice Ministry was dissolved and the Russian Federation's Ministry of Justice was founded.\n\nThe Ministry is headed by the Minister of Justice. he has seven deputies.\n\n\n\n\nDecember 25, 1991 the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR adopted a law on the renaming of the RSFSR in the Russian Federation (RF). On April 21, 1992, the Congress of People's Deputies of the RSFSR made corresponding changes to the Constitution of the RSFSR, which entered into force on May 16, 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "41365926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41365926", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Somalia)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Somalia)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice is the ministry that is responsible for the Judiciary of Somalia. It was created in 1956 during the joint Somali/Italian administration with the aim of achieving a sustainable democratic system of governance that operates within a clearly defined and predictable legal environment. The responsibility of the Ministry is to promote democracy, good governance and human rights through the development of policies and programs that enhance the enjoyment of social, economic and political rights. \n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Somalia did not have a functioning government from late 1991-early 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "21481114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21481114", "title": "National Conference of Law Reviews", "text": "National Conference of Law Reviews\n\nThe National Conference of Law Reviews (NCLR) is a voluntary organization of law reviews in the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico. The NCLR is devoted to helping its members to better serve both the academic and legal communities. In pursuit of this goal, the NCLR holds an annual four-day conference each spring. The conference offers law review editors from member publications the opportunity to exchange ideas on issues common to student-edited law journals.\n\nTexas Wesleyan University School of Law is the current national headquarters. The national headquarters is responsible for the annual membership drive, collecting membership dues, maintaining the NCLR website, coordinating the bidding for and hosting of the annual conference, and conducting the annual board meeting.\n"}
{"id": "14904829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14904829", "title": "Norman Brennan", "text": "Norman Brennan\n\nNorman Brennan was a serving police officer in London, England who retired in 2009 after 31 years service, in which time he was awarded 9 commendations for bravery and outstanding police work. His roles included frontline policing, shield unit, advanced police response driving and Criminal Investigation Department for 14 years. For six years he worked on the robbery squad covering North London.\n\nEarly in Brennan's career, in 1982, whilst arresting three pickpockets, he received serious head injuries and was admitted to intensive care. He spent ten days in hospital and underwent an operation to rebuild damage to his nose. Over the next three years he underwent two further reconstructive operations and was off work for a year recovering. Having fully recovered, he returned to frontline duties. However, only a week later, on his last day in uniform, he assisted colleagues in the Metropolitan Police by chasing an armed burglar at 3am. Brennan was the first to apprehend the burglar, but because it was dark he did not see a knife which very nearly cost him his life when the burglar stabbed him in the chest.\n\nBrennan was rushed to hospital where he received treatment in the A&E department. The following day, the surgeon overseeing his treatment told his chief constable that the knife that he was stabbed with had hit a rib and deflected downwards. Had it gone the other way he would have died. After another ten days in hospital and three and half months off sick, he again returned to frontline duties. This time, however, with less enthusiasm and considering whether he should remain in the police force.\n\nHe decided to continue his career but did not want any colleague to go through the types of assault and consequences that he had. He therefore launched a campaign group called \"Protect the Protectors\", calling for better protection for all frontline police officers. In doing so he held a press conference and was a regular contributor to all sections of the national media on police protection issues. He was also regularly stopped by victims of crime and the public who were impressed with his views on law and order and urged him to speak up for them too. To this end he also set up a charity called the Victims of Crime Trust which gave a voice for victims of crime and specialised in helping families bereaved through murder or manslaughter.\n\nThe positions held by Brennan allowed him to obtain a huge following and support from frontline police officers, victims of crime and the public alike. His first hand experience of dealing with victims of crime, the general public, criminals and the judiciary gave him a wealth of first hand experience and knowledge of what he spoke about.\n\nThere were those in the higher echelons of the Police Federation, the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) and the Home Office who were not impressed with a frontline police officer who was so outspoken and seen by rank and file officers to be doing the job of their official organisations.\n\nIn Brennan's defence, when he first started campaigning 44,000 police officers gave him their support and many continued to send him emails and phone him encouraging him not to give up. \"Police Review\" (the widest read police newspaper) described Brennan as probably being the best known face and voice in British policing and said that \"Protect the Protectors\" was the primary reason the government of the day reversed its policy on issuing police officers with a side-handled baton which had been originally refused.\n\nBrennan was the founder and director of Victims of Crime Trust, registered as a charity in 1994. The trust failed to submit returns to the Charity Commission from 2005 onwards, and its registration was removed in 2010 on the grounds that it had \"ceased to exist\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22427943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22427943", "title": "Ohio Civil Rights Commission v. Dayton Christian Schools, Inc.", "text": "Ohio Civil Rights Commission v. Dayton Christian Schools, Inc.\n\nOhio Civil Rights Commission v. Dayton Christian Schools, Inc., 477 U.S. 619 (1986), reversed a lower court's decision and stated that the lower court should not have heard the case until after the Ohio Civil Rights Commission had concluded their investigation. The Commission argued that the non-renewal and firing constituted unlawful sex discrimination, while the school argued that this was an ecclesiastical matter not suitable for review by civil authorities.\n\nLinda Hoskinson was hired as an elementary school teacher at Dayton Christian Schools during the 1978-1979 school year. Her employment contract required following a \"biblical chain of command\" in lieu of using the state legal system and a signed statement of faith. In 1979, she became pregnant. After informing the principal, her contract to teach was not renewed as the organization believed that mothers should stay home with their pre-school aged children. When she hired an attorney, she was immediately terminated for failing to follow the internal dispute resolution protocol. She then filed a complaint with the Ohio Civil Rights Commission, claiming that the non-renewal of the contract was sexual discrimination under ORC 4112.02A, and that the termination was in violation of 4112.02I. The commission determined that there was sufficient probable cause to believe that the school had discriminated against Hoskinson based on her sex, and retaliated against her for asserting her rights. The school claimed that the First Amendment prevented the Commission from having jurisdiction, that the civil rights statutes were unconstitutionally overreaching and appealed to the US District Court seeking a permanent injunction against the state.\n\nTitle VII of the Civil Rights Act generally permits religious organizations to require membership in their religious group as a bona fide occupational qualifications. Unaddressed was one of the school's claims, that by requiring the school to hire a teacher that disobeyed the church's teachings, they would not be able to demonstrate to students that the church's doctrine was important.\n\nJustice Rehnquist, writing for the majority of the Court, found that the District Court erred in hearing the request for an injunction as a federal court should abstain until after the Commission had brought in a finding. The Court of Appeals erred in ruling that the Commission's jurisdiction violated both the Free Exercise and Establishment Clauses of the First Amendment and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, as instead they should have invoked federal abstention doctrine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51062360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51062360", "title": "Rain Without Thunder (book)", "text": "Rain Without Thunder (book)\n\nRain Without Thunder: The Ideology of the Animal Rights Movement is a 1996 book by American legal scholar Gary L. Francione. The basic premise of the book is that there is a fundamental difference between those that call for animal welfare reform and those that call for the complete abolition of animal use (called 'welfarism' and 'abolitionism'), and that animals have a fundamental right to not be exploited.\n\nFrancione argues that the animal rights movement only emerged in the late 1970s and 1980s. Until that time, concern for animals was limited to ensuring that animals were well cared for during their exploitation. The animal rights position calls for the total abolition of animal use and exploitation, as \"animals, like humans, have inherent value that must be respected\".\n\nFrancione also describes a third category, which is that of the ‘new welfarist’. New welfarists are those that argue the best path to animal rights or abolition is through welfare reform and believe that welfare reform will make humans more receptive to inherently valuing animals. Francione argues that new welfarism does not work, and actually prolongs animal exploitation. Francione describes the welfarist or new welfarist movement as simply advocating for \"longer chains for the slaves\".\n\nFrancione describes the differing philosophies of Peter Singer and Tom Regan toward animal use. He criticises heavily the utilitarian position of Singer, who believes that animal use is acceptable so long as their interests are given equal consideration to humans, and praises Regan’s deontological position of giving all animals rights.\n\nFrancione argues that most animal rights groups are too passive in their approach, and have diluted their messages in the hopes of gaining cultural acceptance. The only group which has not done this, according to Francione, is Animal Liberation Front, which performs rescues for animals, often of a dangerous or illegal nature.\n\nOne of the key criticisms that Francione makes of welfarists and new welfarists is that welfarism reform simply doesn’t work, and in fact is harmful to the cause as welfare reform is argued to make people more comfortable with animal exploitation, and therefore less likely to stop using animals. Welfare reform is also claimed to make the animal exploitation industry more efficient. Carcass damage occurs when food animals are improperly slaughtered and bruise themselves in their deathroes. Welfare reform to slaughter animals more humanely reduces the likelihood of this occurring, improving profits and public image for animal slaughterers.\n\nFrancione argues that advocating for welfare reform does nothing to challenge the ‘research establishment’, and in fact that the livestock industry already advocates welfare reform. The Animal Welfare Act, passed in 1966 and amended in 1985, is heralded as a victory by welfare advocates, but is useless according to Francione, and is indistinguishable from the status quo.\n\nFrancione claims that the methodology of new welfarists in pursuing welfare reform cannot result in the abolition of their legal property status, which he argues is what matters most. Further, he argues that the short and long term goals of new welfarism are in direct conflict. He also argues that it is wrong to surrender the rights of animals today in the hopes of achieving rights for animals sometime in the future.\n\n\"Rain Without Thunder\" and the views depicted within have been criticised by those within the animal movement. One criticism is that Francione depicts a purist ideal and does not care for incremental approaches to animal welfare, but wants the end of animal use now and is not interested in discussing the practicality or methodology to make this happen.\n\nFrancione heavily criticises utilitarianism, particularly through its main modern proponent, Peter Singer. The book is criticised, however, for not stepping into the active debate between consequentialism and deontology, instead taking it for granted that deontology and a rights approach are correct. In praising Tom Regan, he also ignores the fact that Regan himself is an advocate of a hierarchy which allows the killing of some forms of life but not mammals.\n\nThe style of the book itself is criticised as being long-winded and repetitive, with excessive detail that would only be of interest to an insider of the movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "33448716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33448716", "title": "S v Hartmann", "text": "S v Hartmann\n\nS v Hartmann is an important criminal case in South African law, especially in respect of its implications for euthanasia. It was heard by Van Winsen J from March 19 to 20, 1975, in the Cape Provincial Division, with judgment handed down on March 21.\n\nThe court found that the accused had had no desire to end his father's life; his motives were compassionate, directed at the relief of his father's pain and the termination of his pitiable state. He had been aware, however, that his actions would end his father's life, and therefore had sufficient murderous intention, \"dolus directus\", for legal purposes.\n\nGenerally speaking, the consent of the deceased is no defence to murder in South African law. Hartmann's father, of course, had been in no state to consent; had he been, however, it would have made no difference. Euthanasia is unlawful in South Africa, in that it amounts to murder. It was necessary, therefore, for the court to convict Hartmann of that crime.\n\nThe judge concluded, however, that \"this is a case, if ever there was one, in which, without having to be unfair to society, full measure can be given to the element of mercy.\" Hartmann was sentenced to one year in prison, nearly all of it suspended. He was detained until the rising of the court, after which he was free to leave.\n\nDr Hartman’s only witness, who was not called to give evidence - due his protection of his wife - is the only one who knows the full story called facts, and what really happened. The Press fed like vultures blowing the truth into eye-catching headlines to sell their twisted lies.\n\nBut from the pact made between father and son as his father's wish three weeks before, to the hospital bedside, to the Supreme Court and beyond - when vindictiveness became the ugly face of medicine in place of \"Mercy to the rising of the Court\" which went out the window - she saw, and heard, the man they convicted, slandered, and eventually stuck off the Medical Roll, while every other medic had the right to unplug a patient's life-line, without conviction instead.\n\nJustice and Mercy belong both in the fields of Healing, and Truth.\n\n\"A time to be born and a time to die. A time to be heal and a time to kill.\" - Ecclesiastes 3:1-8 - with no second thought nor terms called 'murder and punishment' for the same choice given in the fields of compassion for suffering within Animal Veterinary .\n\nThis was one Son who dearly loved his Father, informed his wife of the pact between them both, and followed through with his promise to relieve his father's absolute final hour. The only crime came from the hypocrites who took the judgement first onto themselves with false accusations. The rest is what it became.\n\n"}
{"id": "30771879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30771879", "title": "Senegalese constitutional referendum, 1958", "text": "Senegalese constitutional referendum, 1958\n\nA referendum on the new constitution of France was held in Senegal on 28 September 1958 as part of a wider referendum held across the French Union. The new constitution would see the country become part of the new French Community if accepted, or result in independence if rejected. It was approved by 97.55% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "14231345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14231345", "title": "Stockholm Institute for Scandinavian Law", "text": "Stockholm Institute for Scandinavian Law\n\nStockholm Institute for Scandinavian Law is a foundation affiliated to the Law Faculty at Stockholm University. The overall objective of the Institute is to disseminate knowledge about Scandinavian law and jurisprudence abroad by presenting Scandinavian law and legal theory to a wide readership in the English language. The Institute publishes Scandinavian Studies in Law (Sc.St.L.), a series of books presenting articles by Scandiavian jurists and legal experts. \n\nThe Institute is led by an editorial board. The work is administrated by an appointed editor, and all activities of the Institute are conducted under the auspices of the Stockholm University's Law Faculty. The Stockholm Institute for Scandinavian Law was established in 1956. The founder of the Institute was the late professor Folke Schmidt, a revered scholar at the Stockholm University. \n\nIn this context, Scandinavia is used as a generic term denoting five European countries: Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden. Denmark, Finland and Sweden are members of the European Union, Norway and Iceland are related to the community law via the EEA-agreement, creating the European Economic Area. Geographically, the Scandinavian peninsula comprises Norway and Sweden and the northernmost part of Finland.\n\nTo a large extent the Scandinavian countries have a common legal tradition and a history of extensive co-operation in many administrative matters. The Scandinavian countries share to a large extent their history, and are closely related by language and culture. Scandinavian law reflects therefore vivid traditions in legislative, administrative, and jurisprudential matters.\n\nThe Institute publishes Scandinavian Studies in Law (Sc.St.L.), a series of books comprising articles on a variety of legal subjects. The Institute is led by an editorial board. The work is administrated by an appointed editor, and all activities of the Institute are conducted under the auspices of the Stockholm University's Law Faculty. \n\nThe series presents articles by Scandinavian jurists and lawyers. The first volume of Sc.St.L. was published in 1957. Since the beginning of the series more than 600 articles have been published. Volumes 1-37, issued between 1957 and 1993, were yearbooks of a conventional kind, each reflecting a variety of legal topics. Beginning with volume 38 the material in the series has been arranged according to topic. A strategy making it possible to present more thorough and updated descriptions of developments in different legal sub-fields.\n\nThe editor and editorial board of Stockholm Institute for Scandinavian Law is appointed by the Stockholm University's Law Faculty. Editors of the series have been Folke Schmidt, Professor of Private Law (1956-1980); Anders Victorin, Professor of Private Law (1980-1995); and Bill W. Dufwa, Professor of Insurance Law. The present editor is: Peter Wahlgren, LL.D., Professor, Law and Information Technology. \n\nThe present members of the editorial board are: Ulf Bernitz, LL.D., Professor emeritus in European Law, Stockholm University; Peter Seipel, LL.D., Professor in Law and Information Technology, Stockholm University; and Said Mahmoudi, LL.D., Professor in International Law, Stockholm University.\n\nFinancial support for the publishing of the series Scandinavian Studies in Law has been provided by the Association for the Publishing of Svensk Juristtidning, the Edvard Cassel Foundation, the Emil Heijne Foundation, the Swedish Council for Research in the Humanities and Social Sciences, and the Stockholm University Law Faculty Publishing Trust.\n\nThe Advisory Committee consists of Viðar Már Matthíasson, Iceland, Ruth Nielsen, Denmark, Tuomas Pöysti, Finland, and Ole-Andreas Rognstad, Norway.\n\nThe series Scandinavian Studies in Law presents articles by Scandinavian jurists and legal experts. The series covers all aspects of the law. The vast majority of the contributions are written by academic scholars. Occasionally, articles by distinguished practitioners are also presented. \nMost of the articles presented in the series have never been published before, while some articles, previously published in the Scandinavian countries, have been updated and translated into English for the present series. \n\nVolume 1-37 are available in full-text format at the Institute's homepage. As new volumes are being published, more volumes are added to the full-text section. Recent volumes:\n\n"}
{"id": "14672753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14672753", "title": "Taxation in China", "text": "Taxation in China\n\nTaxes provide the most important revenue source for the Government of the People's Republic of China. As the most important source of fiscal revenue, tax is a key component of macro-economic policy, and greatly affects China's economic and social development. With the changes made since the 1994 tax reform, China has preliminarily set up a streamlined tax system geared to the socialist market economy.\n\nChina's tax revenue came to 11.05 trillion yuan (1.8 trillion U.S. dollars) in 2013, up 9.8 percent over 2012. The 2017 World Bank \"Doing Business\" rankings estimated that China's total tax rate for corporations was 68% as a percentage of profits through direct and indirect tax. As a percentage of GDP, according to the State Administration of Taxation, overall tax revenues were 30% in China.\n\nThe government agency in charge of tax policy is the Ministry of Finance. For tax collection, it is the State Administration of Taxation.\n\nAs part of a US$586 billion economic stimulus package in November 2008, the government planned to reform the VAT, stating that the plan could cut corporation taxes by 120 billion yuan.\n\nUnder the current tax system in China, there are 26 types of taxes, which, according to their nature and function, can be divided into the following 8 categories:\n\nState organs that have the authority to formulate tax laws or tax policy include the National People's Congress and its Standing Committee, the State Council, the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Taxation, the Tariff and Classification Committee of the State Council, and the General Administration of Customs.\n\nTax laws are enacted by the National People's Congress, e.g., the Individual Income Tax Law of the People's Republic of China; or enacted by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, e.g., the Tax Collection and Administration Law of the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe administrative regulations and rules concerning taxation are formulated by the State Council, e.g., the Detailed Rules for the Implementation of the Tax Collection and Administration Law of the People' s Republic of China, the Detailed Regulations for the Implementation of the Individual Income Tax Law of the People's Republic of China, the Provisional Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Value Added Tax.\n\nThe departmental rules concerning taxation are formulated by the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Taxation, the Tariff and Classification Committee of the State Council, and the General Administration of Customs, e.g., the Detailed Rules for the Implementation of the Provisional Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Value Added Tax, the Provisional Measures for Voluntary Reporting of the Individual Income Tax.\n\nThe formulation of tax laws follow four steps: drafting, examination, voting and promulgation. The four steps for the formulation of tax administrative regulations and rules are: planning, drafting, verification and promulgation. The four steps mentioned above take place in accordance with laws, regulations and rules.\n\nBesides, the laws of China stipulates that within the framework of the national tax laws and regulations, some local tax regulations and rules may be formulated by the People's Congress at the provincial level and its Standing Committee, the People's Congress of minority nationality autonomous prefectures and the People's Government at provincial level.\n\nThe following table summarises up the current tax laws, regulations and rules and relevant legislation in China.\n\nNote: The provisions of criminal responsibilities in \"Supplementary Rules of the Standing Committee of NPC of the People's Republic of China on Penalizing Tax Evasions and Refusal to Pay Taxes\" and \"Resolutions of the Standing Committee of NPC of the People's Republic of China on Penalizing Any False Issuance, Forgery and/or Illegal Sales of VAT Invoices\" have been integrated into the \"Criminal Law of the People's Republic of China\" revised and promulgated on 14 March 1997.\n\nThere are 14 kinds of taxes currently applicable to the enterprises with foreign investment, foreign enterprises and/or foreigners, namely: Value Added Tax, Consumption Tax, Business Tax, Income Tax on Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises, Individual Income Tax, Resource Tax, Land Appreciation Tax, Urban Real Estate Tax, Vehicle and Vessel Usage License Plate Tax, Stamp Tax, Deed Tax, Slaughter Tax, Agriculture Tax, and Customs Duties.\n\nHong Kong, Macau and Taiwan and overseas Chinese and the enterprises with their investment are taxed in reference to the taxation on foreigners, enterprises with foreign investment and/or foreign enterprises. In an effort to encourage inward flow of funds, technology and information, China provides numerous preferential treatments in foreign taxation, and has successively concluded tax treaties with 60 countries (by July 1999): Japan, the USA, France, UK, Belgium, Germany, Malaysia, Norway, Denmark, Singapore, Finland, Canada, Sweden, New Zealand, Thailand, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Australia, Bulgaria, Pakistan, Kuwait, Switzerland, Cyprus, Spain, Romania, Austria, Brazil, Mongolia, Hungary, Malta, the UAE, Luxembourg, South Korea, Russia, Papua New Guinea, India, Mauritius, Croatia, Belarus, Slovenia, Israel, Vietnam, Turkey, Ukraine, Armenia, Jamaica, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Uzbekistan, Bangladesh, Yugoslavia, Sudan, Macedonia, Egypt, Portugal, Estonia, and Laos, 51 of which have been in force.\n\n(1) Taxpayers\n\nThe taxpayers of Urban and Township Land Use Tax include all enterprises, units, individual household businesses and other individuals (excluding enterprises with foreign investment, foreign enterprises and foreigners).\n\n(2) Tax payable per unit\n\nThe tax payable per unit is differentiated with different ranges for different regions, i.e., the annual amount of tax payable per square meter is: 0.5-10 yuan for large cities, 0.4-8 yuan for medium-size cities, 0.3-6 yuan for small cities, or 0.2-4 yuan for mining districts. Upon approval, the tax payable per unit for poor area may be lowered or that for developed area may be raised to some extent.\n\n(3) Computation\n\nThe amount of tax payable is computed on the basis of the actual size of the land occupied by the taxpayers and by applying the specified applicable tax payable per unit. The formula is:\n\nTax payable = Size of land occupied ×Tax payable per unit\n\n(4) Major exemptions\n\nTax exemptions may be given on land occupied by governmental organs, people's organizations and military units for their own use; land occupied by units for their own use which are financed by the institutional allocation of funds from financial departments of the State; land occupied by religious temples, parks and historic scenic spots for their own use; land for public use occupied by Municipal Administration, squares and green land; land directly utilized for production in the fields of agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery industries; land used for water reservation and protection; and land occupied for energy and transportation development upon approval of the State.\n\n(1) Taxpayers\n\nThe enterprises of any nature, units, individual household businesses and other individuals (excluding enterprises with foreign investment, foreign enterprises and foreigners) who are obliged to pay Value Added Tax, consumption Tax and/or Business Tax are the taxpayers of City Maintenance and Construction Tax.\n\n(2) Tax rates and computation of tax payable\n\nDifferential rates are adopted: 7% rate for city area, 5% rate for county and township area and 1% rate for other area. The tax is based on the actual amount of VAT, Consumption Tax and/or Business Tax paid by the taxpayers, and paid together with the three taxes mentioned above. The formula for calculating the amount of the tax payable:\n\nTax payable = Tax base × tax rate Applicable\n\n(1) Taxpayers\n\nThis tax is imposed on enterprises, units, individual household businesses and other individuals who invest into fixed assets within the territory of the People's Republic of China (excluding enterprises with foreign investment, foreign enterprises and foreigners).\n\n(2) Taxable items and tax rates\n\nTable of Taxable Items and Tax Rates:\n\n(3) Computation of tax payable\n\nThis tax is based on the total investment actually put into fixed assets. For renewal and transformation projects, the tax is imposed on the investment of the completed part of the construction project. The formula for calculating the tax payable is:\n\nTax payable - Amount of investment completed or amount of investment in construction project × Applicable rate\n\n(3) Computation of tax payable\n\nTo calculate the amount of Land Appreciation Tax payable, the first step is to arrive at the appreciation amount derived by the taxpayer from the transfer of real estate, which equals to the balance of proceeds received by the taxpayer on the transfer of real estate after deducting the sum of relevant deductible items. Then the amount of tax payable shall be calculated respectively for different parts of the appreciation by applying the applicable tax rates in line with the percentages of the appreciation amount over the sum of the deductible items. The sum of the amount of tax payable for different parts of the appreciation shall be the full amount of tax payable by the taxpayers. The formula is:\n\nTax payable = Σ (Part of appreciation ×Applicable rate)\n\n(4) Major exemptions\n\nThe Land Appreciation Tax shall be exempt in situations where the appreciation amount on the sale of ordinary standard residential buildings construction by taxpayers for sale does not exceed 20% of the sum of deductible items and when the real estate is taken over or repossessed in accordance to the laws due to the construction requirements of the State.\n\n(1) Taxpayers\n\nAt present, this tax is only applied to enterprises with foreign investment, foreign enterprises and foreigners, and levied on house property only.\n\nTaxpayers are owners, mortgagees custodians and/or users of house property.\n\n(2) Tax base, tax rates and computation of tax payable\n\nTwo different rates are applied to two different bases: one rate of 1. 2% is applied to the value of house property, and the other rate of 18% is applied to the rental income from the property. The formula for calculating House Property Tax payable is:\n\nTax payable = Tax base ×Applicable rate\n\n(3) Major exemptions and reductions\n\nNewly constructed buildings shall be exempt from the tax for three years commencing from the month in which the construction is completed. Renovated buildings for which the renovation expenses exceed one half of the expenses of the new construction of such buildings shall be exempt from the tax for two years commencing from the month in which the renovation is completed. Other house property may be granted tax exemption or reduction for special reasons by the People's Government at provincial level or above.\n\n(1) Taxpayers\n\nAt this moment, this tax is only applied to the enterprises with foreign investment, foreign enterprises, and foreigners. The users of the taxable vehicles and vessels are taxpayers of this tax.\n\n(2) Tax amount per unit\n\nThe tax amount per unit is different for vehicles and vessels:\n\na. Tax amount per unit for vehicles: 15-80 yuan per passenger vehicle per quarter; 4-15 yuan per net tonnage per quarter for cargo vehicles; 5-20 yuan per motorcycle per quarter. 0.3-8 yuan per non-motored vehicle per quarter.\n\nb. Tax amount per unit for vessels: 0.3- 1.1 yuan per net tonnage per quarter for motorized vessels; 0.15-0.35 yuan per non-motorized vessel.\n\n(3) Computation\n\nThe tax base for vehicles is the quantity or the net tonnage of taxable vehicles The tax base for vessels is the net-tonnage or the deadweight tonnage of the taxable vessels. The formula for computing the tax payable is:\n\na. Tax payable = Quantity (or net-tonnage ) of taxable vehicles × Applicable tax amount per unit\nb. Tax payable = Net-tonnage (or deadweight tonnage) of taxable vessels × Applicable tax amount per unit\n\n(4) Exemptions\n\na. Tax exemptions may be given on the vehicles used by Embassies and Consulates in China; the vehicles used by diplomatic representatives, consuls, administrative and technical staffs and their spouses and non-grown-up children living together with them.\n\nb. Tax exemptions may be given as stipulated in some provinces and municipalities on the fire vehicles, ambulances, water sprinkling vehicles and similar vehicles of enterprises with foreign investment and foreign enterprises.\n\nFrom October 1st 2018\nTax exemption: 5000 RMB for both residents and not residents.\n\nTaxable income = income - tax exemption\n\nMonthly tax formula: (taxable income * tax rate) - quick deduction = tax\n\n\"Example: ((10000 - 5000) * 10%) - 210 = 290 RMB in taxes\"\n\nNote that both, tax rate and quick deduction, are based on the 'income' AFTER the 'tax exemption': the 'taxable income'.\n\nTax calculator (2018 reform) from KPMG \n\nAs of 2007, a paper reported that about two-thirds of tax revenue was spent at the local level and that \"the ratio of central revenue to total tax revenues reached a low of 22 per cent in 1993, before rising to the 50 per cent level following the 1994 tax reform\".\n\nThe table details China's revenue statistics from 1952 to 1997.\n\nNote: For three years, the tax revenue exceeded the fiscal revenue due to the excessive amount of losses by enterprises that largely reduced the fiscal revenue.\n\nRevenue breakdown by Type of Taxes in 1997:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52267883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52267883", "title": "The Dog and the Sheep", "text": "The Dog and the Sheep\n\nThe Dog and the Sheep is one of Aesop’s Fables and is numbered 478 in the Perry Index. Originally its subject was the consequence of bearing false witness. However, longer treatments of the story during the Middle Ages change the focus to deal with perversions of justice by the powerful at the expense of the poor. It has sometimes been alternatively titled The Wolf, the Dog and the Sheep in order to distinguish it from the fable of the dispute between the sheep and the dog that guards them (Perry 356).\n\nThe fable as originally told by Phaedrus records the fate reserved to liars. A dog took a sheep to law over a loaf that he claimed to have given it and was supported by a wolf called as witness. Though the sheep lost the case, it later came across the wolf dead in a ditch and drew the moral that this was as a result of heavenly punishment.\n\nAfter the social breakdown of the Middle Ages, the fable’s focus changed to misuse of justice and the fate of the poor in the many Latin versions recording it. Walter of England’s fable is much grimmer. The dog is supported in his accusation by three false witnesses, the kite, vulture and wolf, and the sheep has to cover the cost by selling its wool in mid-winter. Nor does any heavenly punishment follow. The moral is simply that this is the way of the world:\n(“Often laziness begs faith in false witness, often justice is the captive of criminal deceit”). Indeed, in the slightly later French version of Marie de France, it is the lamb that dies of cold. This had always been the intention of its carnivorous false accusers, the wolf, the kite and the dog, who then divide its body between them.\n\nMarie de France’s poem comprises 42 octosyllabic lines, of which the last eight provide a commentary on how law has been corrupted by the powerful to oppress the poor. During the course of the 15th century two more authors used the fable to comment at even greater length on this social abuse still needing redress. The poems were the work of the Chaucerian poets John Lydgate and Robert Henryson, both of whom composed short collections of Aesop’s fables, using decasyllabic rhyme royal. Lydgate’s \"The Tale of the Hownde and the Shepe, groundyd agen perjuré and false wytnes\" comprises 32 of these seven-line stanzas, of which some sixteen are devoted to a denunciation of perjury and greed. The story itself is told with satirical intent, with its introduction of the false witnesses as “The faithful wolf, in trowth that doth delite,/ And with hym comyth the gentil foule, the kyte”. As in Marie de France, the sheep perishes and is divided between its accusers.\n\nHenryson had trained in law and many of the 25 stanzas of his \"Taill of the Scheip and the Doig\" are devoted to a description of the legal process in the Scotland of his day. Here the wolf plays the part of judge, the raven is the summoner, while the kite and the vulture are lawyers. The unrepresented sheep is browbeaten into forfeiting its wool to compensate the dog but survives to utter his complaint to Heaven: \nThe fable survived into the Renaissance as an exemplary story even after reforms in the law. Hieronymus Osius devoted a short Neo-Latin poem to it in which the sheep is dunned for “certain measures of wheat”, as Roger L'Estrange termed it in his own prose version of 1692. Samuel Croxall returned to the more violent ending in his 1722 version, where the kite and the wolf act as judges. No sooner is sentence pronounced than the dog tears the sheep to pieces and divides it with his confederates. Besides offering the usual conclusions in his ‘application’, Croxall - with the long struggle against Stuart misrule in mind - goes on to comment that “it is hard to determine which resemble Brutes most, they in acting or the People in suffering them to act their vile, selfish Schemes.”\n\n"}
{"id": "30431148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30431148", "title": "Third railway package", "text": "Third railway package\n\nThe third railway package is a collection of European Union legislation, intended to revitalise railways across Europe and open up passenger services to competition.\n\nFollowing on from the second railway package, the main act of the third railway package was open access for all international passenger services, including cabotage, across the railways of the EU from 1 January 2010. However, there were also reforms to rail passengers' rights (including a minimum level of compensation for delays); this applies to both international and domestic rail travel, but national governments can exempt some domestic services from this in the medium term. and harmonisation of train drivers licences.\n\nThe third railway package reflects the 2001 white paper, \"European transport policy for 2010\", but much detailed discussion and negotiation was needed to agree the various provisions.\n\nThe legislation is hoped to stimulate new and improved rail services across Europe. A progress report is expected to be submitted in 2012, which may stimulate further liberalisation, particularly for domestic rather than international rail services.\n\n\nThis European legislation has been mirrored by local laws in individual countries of the EU; for instance, the \"Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) (Amendment) Regulations 2009\" in the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5806603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5806603", "title": "Traffic Violations Bureau", "text": "Traffic Violations Bureau\n\nThe Traffic Violations Bureau (TVB) is an administrative court of the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles that adjudicates non-criminal traffic violations (other than parking violations) in New York City.\n\nThe TVB conducts its proceedings according to the Administrative Adjudication of Traffic Violations regulations in the New York Codes, Rules and Regulations. The National Motorists Association assists motorists and offers attorney referrals to motorists appearing before the TVB.\n\nThe DMV TVB is an administrative court that is not part of the judiciary, but an executive agency with different procedures regarding elements ranging from rules of evidence to threshold for conviction. The function of the judge is carried out by an administrative law judge, or ALJ. The sole options are to plead guilty or not guilty: plea bargains are not conducted, nor can the judge reduce a charge, only rule guilty or not guilty on the stated charge. After a guilty finding, the DMV ALJ may impose any penalty authorized by the Vehicle and Traffic Law, including suspension or revocation of a driver's license and/or motor vehicle registration, but not including imprisonment. There is no absolute right to a supporting deposition, and rules on admissibility of hearsay evidence are far more lax than in court. Typically, the hearing consists simply of each side presenting its story, the allowance of hearsay negating the necessity of formalities such as sworn witnesses and the like.\n\nAdministrative appeals are made to the DMV Motor Vehicle Appeals Board. There is a fee of $10 for the appeal and $50 for the transcript that must be ordered. Judicial review of the appeal is made under article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules, which is equivalent to a writ or order of certiorari, mandamus and/or prohibition.\n\nBecause the rules of evidence, specifically the right of discovery and the admissibility of hearsay, are more lax than in normal court, the TVB system has often been characterized as a difficult or biased one. The absence of an option to plead to reduced charges, traditionally a staple of traffic court, has been especially criticized.\n\nThe threshold of conviction is \"clear and convincing evidence\", in contrast to the general definition of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. This is a lower standard, making conviction easier. Conversely, the argument has been made that the more streamlined process, coupled with the judge being an expert on traffic law, makes for a fairer trial. The concept of administration adjudication was upheld by New York State's highest court, the Court of Appeals, in \"Rosenthal v. Hartnett\", (1975).\n\nThe New York State Department of Motor Vehicles has in the past noted that a 65% conviction rate is required to maintain the financial viability of the Traffic Violations Bureau System (Source: New York State Bar Association Committee on Administrative Adjudication).\n\nThe TVB is authorized by Vehicle and Traffic Law article 2-A, which was created by chapter 1074 of the laws of 1969 (enacted May 26, 1969, effective July 1, 1970) under Governor Rockefeller. The rationale behind the establishment of this office was to offload the large volume of such cases from the New York City Criminal Court, and also authorized local parking violations bureaus.\n\nEffective April 1, 2013, the Suffolk County Traffic and Parking Violations Agency began adjudicating parking summonses, red light camera citations and moving violations in the five western towns of Suffolk County. Effective July 1, 2015, the Buffalo TVB closed. Effective April 21, 2018 the Rochester TVB closed. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31086546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31086546", "title": "Vijitha Rohana", "text": "Vijitha Rohana\n\nWijemuni Vijitha Rohana de Silva (born 1965) was a Sri Lankan sailor and an astrologer. He is noted for his assault on Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on 30 July 1987 at President's House, Colombo. It was claimed by some as an attempted assassination. He later contested a general election under the Sihala Urumaya party in 2000.\n\nBorn in Boossa, Ratgama in the southern province of Sri Lanka; he studied at Gintota Maha Vidyalaya and passed the O Level examination. Thereafter he joined the Sri Lanka Navy received his weapons training at the Naval and Maritime Academy and specialized as a radiomen. He was stationed at SLNS Elara in Karainagar, Jaffna taking part in the Vadamarachchi Operation. In July 1987 he was a Leading Rate and transferred the Colombo and assigned to the Guard of honour for the visiting Indian Prime Minister, who was in Colombo to sign the Indo-Sri Lanka Accord that would result in the deployment of the Indian Peace Keeping Force.\n\nRohana was enraged by the Indian support for the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam and its direct interference in Sri Lanka with Operation Poomalai and forcing the conclusion of the successful Vadamarachchi Operation before all its objectives were met. These were sentiments felt throughout the country and continues to this day.\n\nThe Guard of Honour was commanded by Lieutenant Mendis who invited the Indian Prime Minister to review the guard as per tradition. Rajiv Gandhi was escorted by Lieutenant Mendis along with Sri Lankan Finance Minister Ronnie de Mel, and Sri Lankan security personnel. Vijitha Rohana swung his ceremonial Lee–Enfield rifle at the Indian Prime Minister aiming at the back of his neck. Gandhi managed to duck and miss the full brunt of the blow, even though the rifle struck him. Rohana was quickly restrained by Lieutenant Mendis and the Chief Petty Officer of the detachment along with other security personnel. He was arrested by the CID.\n\nVijitha Rohana faced a court martial headed by K.R.L. Perera, Group Captain Buddhi Siriwardhen and Colonel Vijaya Wimalaratne. He was charged with attempted murder and acting contrary to navy discipline and insulting a state leader. Prosecuted by Senior State Counsel Captain Raja Fernando, his defence team included Sarath Wijesinghe, Susil Premajayantha and Donald Hewagama. The defence implied that Rohana was not aiming to kill since he could have stabbed the premier with the bayonet affixed to his Lee–Enfield rifle at the time. The court martial found him guilty of attempted culpable homicide not amounting to murder and insulting the Indian Prime Minister. He was sentenced to six years in prison, however President Premadasa gave him a presidential pardon after two and a half years.\n\nAfter his release from prison he gained a degree from the University of Sri Jayewardenepura and started his own business. In 2000 he contested the general election under the Sihala Urumaya party.\n\nHe later became an astrologer and claimed that President Maithripala Sirisena would die by 26 January 2017. This was seen as a part of a conspiracy to assassinate the president and he was arrested again.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50443357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50443357", "title": "Wangkhei Phee", "text": "Wangkhei Phee\n\nWangkhei Phee is a textile fabric made of white cotton. It is a product which is protected under the GI registration and is made throughout the Indian state of Manipur and is woven by women. The fabric is transparent, has many designs on its body, and is popularly worn by women of Manipur for marriage ceremonies and other festive occasions.\n\nThe fabric has been registered for protection under the Geographical indication of the Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement. It was registered as Wangkhei Phee under the Geographical Indications Act 1999 of the Government of India, with registration confirmed by the Controller General of Patents Designs and Trademarks under Class – 25 – Clothing vide application number 372 dated 19 December 2011, and also for Moirang Phee (GI no.373) and Shaphee Lanphee (GI no.371), which are all woven by women of Manipur. The Government of Manipur was expected to register 5,000 weavers in respect of Wangkhei Phee within six months from the date of GI registration as per decision of the Consultative Committee meeting.\n\nThe fabric was originally made in muslin cloth for use by the Royal family of Manipur. The weavers were then stationed at the Wangkhei Colony, close to the palace but is now made at many places in Manipur.\n\nThe Wangkhei Phee is made with very fine white cotton yarn with a closely woven texture. The interlacing of cotton weft and warp is woven by women, in series and widely spaced from each other, that makes the fabric \"fully transparent\". Patches are incorporated by weaving with standard designs; the designs are called \"Kheiroithek\", \"ThangjingTangkhai\", \"KabokChaiba\", and several others, and all have Moirang Phee design on both of its longitudinal borders. Known as a \"luxurious\" cloth, it is a popular attire used by women during marriage ceremonies and festivals. \n\nThe fibre used for making the yarn is derived from \"Lashing\" (Cotton ball) and \"Kabrang\" (Mulberry cocoon). It is also extracted from the bark of the tree species locally known as \"Santhak” (\"Urtica sp.\"). The local fibre is spun into threads and then dyed using the extracts of plants, bark, leaves, and flowers. The dyed yarn is subject to sizing through the application of a rice-based starch, following by stretching with the help of a bamboo stick, and then wound onto the bobbins and pirns.\n\nThe type of yarn in the fabric used is fine cotton. The thread in the warp has counts of 80S and 100S cotton while the weft has thread of count 2/80S. The extra weft used is of 2/80S mercerized.\n\nThe weaving process involves two methods based on use of shuttles: fly shuttle loom and throw shuttle loom. In the first type it is made as a complete fabric in a single piece. In the second method, the fabric is made in two\npieces and then joined by stitching to make it a full fabric. Additional motifs are woven in by hand. The fabric is \"porous, airy, see-through and thin\", making it suitable for luxury items for women such as chadors and saris, and skirts and school uniforms for girls.\n\nFollowing the GI registration of the fabric, an inspection agency has been constituted for quality control of the product made by weavers.\n"}
{"id": "46586861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46586861", "title": "William Samuel Lilly", "text": "William Samuel Lilly\n\nWilliam Samuel Lilly (10 July 1840 – 29 August 1919) was an English barrister and man of letters.\n\nLilly was born at Fifehead, Dorset, in 1840. He was educated at Peterhouse, Cambridge, taking his degree of LL.B. in 1862, and his LL.M. in 1870. After some private tuition from Sir Adolphus William Ward, he entered the Indian civil service, becoming in 1869 secretary to the government of Madras. Owing to a breakdown in health, however, he had to return to England, where he devoted himself to a career in literature. With his wide-ranging intellectual interests, Lilly occasionally wrote for some of the major publications of his time, such as \"The Nineteenth Century,\" \"The Contemporary Review,\" \"The Fortnightly Review\", \"Popular Science Monthly,\" and \"The Dublin Review\".\n\nLilly was a convert to Roman Catholicism, and from 1874 was secretary to the Catholic Union of Great Britain. He was also a Justice of the Peace for Middlesex and London.\n\n\nSelected articles\n\nMiscellany\n"}
{"id": "1677695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1677695", "title": "Åsetesrett", "text": "Åsetesrett\n\nÅsetesrett (archaic spelling Åsædesret) is one of the Ancient Norwegian property laws under which the eldest child has priority inheritance rights to agricultural property.\n\nÅsetesretten is a priority right to take over an agricultural property inheritance. When the farmer dies, only lineal descendants have inheritance rights to agricultural property. If there are several agricultural properties involved, the eldest child may choose only one parcel. The heir is obliged to pay the other siblings their share of the estate (originally only 50% to sisters). Traditionally the value of the estate was given by the father or else is estimated, usually below its actual valuation. If the father left no son, his eldest surviving daughter inherited.\n\nBefore reforms of the 1970s, daughters did inherit, but their share was limited to one-half that of the sons' shares. Currently there is an appraisal, but the value is typically low. If a farm or estate is of such a size that several families can exist on it, the father is allowed to divide it among his children; however, this is on the condition that the eldest son or daughter will not receive less than one-half of the farm or estate. This serves to limit the partitioning of agricultural farm land. \n\n\n"}
