{"id": "79010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79010", "title": "Asia (mythology)", "text": "Asia (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Asia (Ancient Greek: Ἀσία) was a one of the Oceanids, daughters of Oceanus and Tethys.\n\nAccording to Apollodorus, she was the wife of the Titan Iapetus, and mother of Atlas, Prometheus, Epimetheus and Menoetius although Hesiod gives the name of another Oceanid, Clymene, as their mother. \n\nIt is possible that the name \"Asia\" became preferred over Hesiod's \"Clymene\" to avoid confusion with the Clymene who was mother of Phaethon by Helios in some accounts and must have been perceived as a distinct figure. Herodotus records the tradition that the continent \"Asia\" was named after Asia whom he calls \"wife\" of Prometheus rather than \"mother\" of Prometheus, perhaps here a simple error rather than genuine variant tradition.\n\nBoth Acusilaus and Aeschylus in his \"Prometheus Bound\" call Prometheus' wife Hesione.\n\nHerodotus also relates a Lydian tradition \"that Asia was not named after Prometheus' wife Asia, but after Asies, the son of Cotys, who was the son of Manes, and that from him the Asiad clan at Sardis also takes its name\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11492830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11492830", "title": "Automated weather map display", "text": "Automated weather map display\n\nAn automated weather map display shows updated weather maps or other images for public viewing. \n\nThe weather images may be accessed interactively by the viewer, or a series of maps may be displayed continuously as a loop. Once the maps or webcam images are downloaded from public sites, they are shown using the full screen of the computer display. At a predetermined interval, the display program downloads new images for display. With older software or hardware, the display may be interrupted during updates.\n\nThe system is usually used in schools or libraries and other public areas, and is ideal for science-oriented display cases and travel center booths. It is a common fixture in many rest areas along interstate highways. In an educational setting, the maps allow students to see the relationship between global weather patterns and the local weather that they experience. The system can also be used to display emergency weather warnings.\n\nThe hardware requirements are relatively modest, allowing older or even obsolescent computers to be used. The primary requirements are reliable hardware, a network connection, and a secure location visible to the public.\n\nFor example, the weather map display system at the Department of Geography/Geology at the University of Nebraska at Omaha has been in continuous operation since 1999. Consisting of six Apple Macintosh computers, some dating to 1992 and with as little as 32 MB of memory, the system uses Cron and Applescript to perform certain operations every hour. Files that are downloaded include GIF or JPEG images that display current weather conditions, including NEXRAD radar, lightning strikes, weather warnings and watches. Once the files are downloaded to a folder, JPEGView displays the files in a continuous loop. After an hour, JPEGView stops, the weather maps are deleted a new set of maps are downloaded. JPEGView starts again and the new maps are displayed.\n\nThe specific computers used in the weather map display system are two Macintosh IIvx computers built in 1992, a Macintosh LC III from 1993, a Macintosh Centris 610 from 1994 and two Power Macintosh 8500 computers built in 1995 that display animated weather maps. Software includes Okey Dokey Pro, Cron, JPEGView, and Applescript. QuickTime Pro is used for the animated weather map display.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5079317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5079317", "title": "Chip Rawlins", "text": "Chip Rawlins\n\nChip Rawlins is an American writer, and the co-author of \"The Complete Walker IV\" with Colin Fletcher. He also publishes under the name, C. L. Rawlins . Rawlins is a non-fiction writer, poet, outdoor guide and instructor. Previous jobs include: firefighter, science editor, and field hydrologist.\n\nRawlins was born in Laramie, Wyoming. He went to Utah State University and was a Wallace Stegner Fellow at Stanford University. He lives in Laramie, where he has served as president of the Wyoming Outdoor Council and on the Greater Yellowstone Coalition. He has also lived in New Zealand .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27190981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27190981", "title": "Cold-core low", "text": "Cold-core low\n\nA cold-core low, also known as an upper level low or cold-core cyclone, is a cyclone aloft which has an associated cold pool of air residing at high altitude within the Earth's troposphere. It is a low pressure system that strengthens with height in accordance with the thermal wind relationship. If a weak surface circulation forms in response to such a feature at subtropical latitudes of the eastern north Pacific or north Indian oceans, it is called a subtropical cyclone. Cloud cover and rainfall mainly occurs with these systems during the day. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, can occur near the center of cold-core lows. Cold lows can help spawn cyclones with significant weather impacts, such as polar lows, and Von Karman Vortices. Cold lows can lead directly to the development of tropical cyclones, owing to their associated cold pool of air aloft or by acting as additional outflow channels to aid in further development.\nCold cyclones are stronger aloft than at the Earth's surface, or stronger in areas of the troposphere with lower pressures, per the thermal wind relationship and the hypsometric equation. The hypsometric equation dictates that colder atmospheres have less room between pressure surfaces, which corresponds to the concept of lower atmospheric thickness, and the thermal wind relation indicates that in this situation, the wind increases with height. It also means that an isolated pool of cold air aloft is associated with the feature. Because of its cold center, the center shows an area of thickness minimum. Since the temperature at any given radius is similar and parallel to the orientation of the pressure gradient, and therefore the wind, it is barotropic in nature. The movement of cold-core cyclones can be erratic since they are separated from the main belt of the Westerlies, which would otherwise steer them progressively to the east.\n\nMost cloud cover and precipitation in association with cold lows occurs during the daylight hours as sunlight warms the Earth's surface, destabilizing the atmosphere and causing upward vertical motion. The development of severe weather, particularly tornadoes, can occur near the center of these systems over land during any season of the year. During winter, when cold-core lows with temperatures in the mid-levels of the troposphere reach move over open waters, deep convection forms which allows polar low development to become possible.\n\nKona lows, most extratropical cyclones, and tropical upper tropospheric cyclones are cold core lows. In the eastern half of the north Pacific ocean and north Indian ocean, the formation of a weak circulation underneath a mid to upper-tropospheric low which has cut off from the main belt of the westerlies during the cold season (winter) is called a subtropical cyclone. In the case of the north Indian ocean, the formation of this type of vortex leads to the onset of monsoon rains during the wet season.\n\nEast coast lows form near and east of where a cold core low interacts with a sea surface temperature (SST) gradient along the east coast of continents, such as Asia, North America, southern Africa, and Australia within a pre-existing area of high pressure. Those offshore the East Coast of the United States, which normally form in the months between October and April, are termed nor'easters. Not initially associated with weather fronts, they form in tandem with blocking anticyclones at higher latitudes, which leads to a slow poleward movement up the SST gradient. East coast lows can persist for up to a week. Some East coast lows develop rapidly, becoming meteorological bombs. There is a 4.5 year cycle in the formation of East coast lows near Australia, in years in transition between warm (El Niño) and cold (La Niña) ENSO years. These systems can develop strong wind, heavy rains, waves over in height, and eye features on weather satellite imagery.\n\nThe summer tropical upper tropospheric trough in the Southern Hemisphere lies over the trade wind region of the east central Pacific and can cause tropical cyclogenesis offshore Central America. In the western Pacific, tropical upper tropospheric lows are the main cause for the few tropical cyclones which develop north of the 20th parallel north and east of the 160th meridian east during La Niña events.\n\nTrailing upper cyclones and upper troughs can cause additional outflow channels and aid in the intensification process of tropical cyclones. Developing tropical disturbances can help create or deepen upper troughs or upper lows in their wake due to the outflow jet stream emanating from the developing tropical disturbance/cyclone. In the western North Pacific, there are strong reciprocal relationships between the areas of formative tropical cyclones and that of the lower tropospheric monsoon troughs and the tropical upper tropospheric trough. Tropical cyclone movement can also be influenced by TUTT cells within of their position, which can lead to non-climatological tracks, such as eastward movement within the tropics or westward movement in an area where the Westerlies normally dominate.\n\nNormally, an ocean temperature of 26.5 °C (79.7 °F) spanning through a depth of at least is one of the six requirements needed to maintain the special mesocyclone that is the tropical cyclone. Cooler air temperatures at a higher altitude (e.g., at the 500 hPa level, or 5.9 km) can lead to tropical cyclogenesis at lower water temperatures than normal, as a certain lapse rate is required to force the atmosphere to be unstable enough for convection. In a moist atmosphere, this lapse rate is 6.5 °C/km (19 °F/mi), while in an atmosphere with less than 100% relative humidity, the required lapse rate is 9.8 °C/km (29 °F/mi). A recent example of a tropical cyclone that maintained itself over cooler waters was Alex of the 2016 Atlantic hurricane season, which became a hurricane over waters at only .\n\nAt the 500 hPa level, the air temperature averages -7 °C (18 °F) within the tropics, but air in the tropics is normally dry at this level, giving the air room to wet-bulb, or cool as it moistens, to a more favorable temperature that can then support convection. A wetbulb temperature at 500 hPa in a tropical atmosphere of is required to initiate convection if the water temperature is , and this temperature requirement increases or decreases proportionally by 1 °C in the sea surface temperature for each 1 °C change at 500 hpa. Under a cold cyclone, 500 hPa temperatures can fall as low as , which can initiate convection even in the driest atmospheres. This also explains why moisture in the mid-levels of the troposphere, roughly at the 500 hPa level, is normally a requirement for development. However, when dry air is found at the same height, temperatures at 500 hPa need to be even colder as dry atmospheres require a greater lapse rate for instability than moist atmospheres. At heights near the tropopause, the 30-year average temperature (as measured in the period encompassing 1961 through 1990) was -77 °C (-132 °F).\n"}
{"id": "52803768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52803768", "title": "D Velorum", "text": "D Velorum\n\nThe Bayer designations d Velorum and D Velorum are distinct. \nDue to , both designations link here. \n\nFor the star :\n\n"}
{"id": "1436753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1436753", "title": "Earth-One", "text": "Earth-One\n\nEarth-One (also Earth-1) is a name given to two fictional universes (The Pre-Crisis and Post-Crisis versions of the same universe) that have appeared in American comic book stories published by DC Comics. The first Earth-One was given its name in \"Justice League of America\" #21 (August 1963), after \"The Flash\" #123 (September 1961) explained how Golden Age (Earth-Two) versions of characters such as the Flash (Jay Garrick) could appear in stories with their Silver Age counterparts (Barry Allen). This Earth-One continuity included the DC Silver Age heroes, including the Justice League of America. Earth-One, along with the four other surviving Earths of the DC Multiverse, are merged into one in the 1985 miniseries \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\". This Earth's versions of characters were primarily the Earth-One versions (i.e. Superman, Batman), but some characters from the four other worlds were also \"folded\" in. In \"Infinite Crisis\", Earth-One was resurrected and merged with the primary Earth of the publication era to create a New Earth that brought back more aspects of Earth-One's original history. In 2007, a new version of Earth-One was created in the aftermath of events that occurred within the \" 52\" series.\n\nCharacters from DC Comics were originally suggestive of each existing in their own world, as superheroes never encountered each other. However, this was soon changed with alliances being formed between certain protagonists. Several publications, including \"All-Star Comics\" (publishing tales of the Justice Society of America), \"Leading Comics\" (publishing tales of the Seven Soldiers of Victory) and other comic books introduced a \"shared-universe\" among several characters during the 1940s until the present day.\n\nAlternative reality Earths had been used in DC stories before, but were usually not referred to after that particular story. Also most of these alternative Earths were usually so vastly different that no one would confuse that Earth and its history with the so-called real Earth. That would change when the existence of another reliable Earth was established in a story titled \"Flash of Two Worlds\" in which Barry Allen, the modern Flash later referred to as Earth-One (the setting of the Silver Age stories) first travels to another Earth, accidentally vibrating at just the right speed to appear on Earth-Two, where he meets Jay Garrick, his Earth-Two counterpart.\n\n\n\"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" (1985–1986) was an effort by DC Comics to clean up their continuity, resulting in the multiple universes, including that of Earth-One, combining into one. This involved the destruction of the multiverse, including Earth-One and the first appearance of the post-\"Crisis\" Earth.\n\nAt the end of the \"Infinite Crisis\" limited series, the realigned world is called \"New Earth\". There are now 52 universes: \"New Earth\" (aka Earth-0), and Earths-1 to 51. In the final issue of the \"52\" weekly series, it is revealed that fifty-two duplicate worlds have been created and all but New Earth have been altered from the original incarnation.\n\nEarth-1 is featured in the \"\" and \"\" graphic novels.\n\n\nEarth-One, Earth-Two, Crisis on Infinite Earths at Don Markstein's Toonopedia. Archived from the original on June 3, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "316915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316915", "title": "Ecological damage", "text": "Ecological damage\n\nEcological damage may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "25135328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25135328", "title": "Energy in Austria", "text": "Energy in Austria\n\nEnergy in Austria describes energy and electricity production, consumption and import in Austria.\n\nAustria is one of the foremost producers of hydroelectric power in Europe. The most important power facilities are publicly owned; 50% of the shares of the large private producers are owned by provincial governments.\n\nAccording to Austrian Environment Minister Nikolaus Berlakovich Austria has a target of 34% renewable energy by 2020 and 100% self-sufficiency in energy by 2050. In Austria will be 100,000 new green jobs up to 2020, Berlakovich hoped in the European Wind Energy Event 2013 by EWEA.\n\nIn 2000, net electricity generation was 58.8 TWh, of which 28.5% came from fossil fuels, 68.6% from hydropower, none from nuclear energy, and the remainder from other sources. In the same year, consumption of electricity totaled 54.8 TWh. Total installed capacity at the beginning of 2001 was 14.2 million kW. In 2000 petroleum accounted for 39% of energy consumption, natural gas 20%, coal 10%, nuclear energy 0%, and hydroelectric power 31%. During the winter, when there is less flowing water for hydroelectric power, domestic electricity demands must be supplemented by imports from neighboring countries.\n\nOil, first produced in 1863, is found both in Upper Austria, near Wolfsegg am Hausruck, and in Lower Austria, in the vicinity of Vienna. After reaching a peak of about 3,700,000 tons in 1955, oil production gradually declined to 22,000 barrels per day in 2000. Natural gas production was 1.698 billion cubic metres in 1998, far short of domestic needs; consumption amounted to 6.862 billion cubic metres in that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "36416268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36416268", "title": "Energy in Laos", "text": "Energy in Laos\n\nThis page describes energy and electricity production, consumption and import in Laos.\n\nThe Lao government had ongoing plans in 2012 for 80 new hydropower plants for electricity export. Hydropower may have large environmental and social consequences beyond national borders. Non-governmental organisation International Rivers has raised concerns over these plans.\n\nThe $3.8bn (£2.4bn) hydro-electric dam project at Xayaburi Dam has caused tension among Mekong region countries - Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia and Thailand. In April 2012 a contract was signed for a Thai company, CH Karnchang, to build the dam. The Lao government has pledged to resolve the environmental issues. The government says two big issues - fish migration and sediment flow - will be addressed. Critics say the hydro-electric dam project at Xayaburi would harm the river's eco-system.\n\nFinnish engineering firm Pöyry supported the Lao government in the hydro power construction e.g. by argument that no international agreement is needed. Pöyry Engineering supported in 2012 in Laos Mekong river Xayabar hydropower plant that was opposed at least by Cambodia, Vietnam and environmental and other non-governmental organisations. Pöyry admitted it had not assessed all environmental risks (fish, ecosystem). According to Pöyry they have no responsibility of their reports: Olemme pelkkä konsultti. “We only consult” it said in June 2012.\n\nThe aim was to supply electricity mainly to Thailand by a Thai company and to provide export income to the government of Laos. However, the Mekong River Commission recommended to suspend the project. According to Finnish media the Finnish government is among the main financiers of the river commission. As of 2012, the Mekong river down stream is free of dams. Approximately 60 million people live in the area in Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia. Then-U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton visiting the ASEAN countries in July 2012 demanded environmental investigations of the project. During her visit the Lao government made the first official announcement to suspend the project.\n\nPower companies responsible for energy and electricity production in Laos include: Electricite du Laos, Glow Energy (a subsidiary of GDF Suez), Lao Holding State Enterprise and Nam Theun 2 Power Company, a consortium comprising French-owned EDF (40% ownership), Thai (35%) and Lao (25%) entities.\n\n"}
{"id": "50413747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50413747", "title": "Energy modeling", "text": "Energy modeling\n\nEnergy modeling or energy system modeling is the process of building computer models of energy systems in order to analyze them. Such models often employ scenario analysis to investigate different assumptions about the technical and economic conditions at play. Outputs may include the system feasibility, greenhouse gas emissions, cumulative financial costs, natural resource use, and energy efficiency of the system under investigation. A wide range of techniques are employed, ranging from broadly economic to broadly engineering. Mathematical optimization is often used to determine the least-cost in some sense. Models can be international, regional, national, municipal, or stand-alone in scope. Governments maintain national energy models for energy policy development.\n\nEnergy models are usually intended to contribute variously to system operations, engineering design, or energy policy development. This page concentrates on policy models. Individual building energy simulations are explicitly excluded, although they too are sometimes called energy models. IPCC-style integrated models, which also contain a representation of the world energy system and are used to examine global transformation pathways through to 2050 or 2100 are not considered here in detail.\n\nEnergy modeling has increased in importance as the need for climate change mitigation has grown in importance. The energy supply sector is the largest contributor to global greenhouse gas emissions. The IPCC reports that climate change mitigation will require a fundamental transformation of the energy supply system, including the substitution of unabated (not captured by CCS) fossil fuel conversion technologies by low-GHG alternatives.\n\nA wide variety of model types are in use. This section attempts to categorize the key types and their usage. The divisions provided are not hard and fast and mixed-paradigm models exist. In addition, the results from more general models can be used to inform the specification of more detailed models, and vice versa, thereby creating a hierarchy of models. Models may, in general, need to capture \"complex dynamics such as:\n\nModels may be limited in scope to the electricity sector or they may attempt to cover an energy system in its entirety (see below).\n\nMost energy models are used for scenario analysis. A scenario is a coherent set of assumptions about a possible system. New scenarios are tested against a baseline scenario – normally business-as-usual (BAU) – and the differences in outcome noted.\n\nThe time horizon of the model is an important consideration. Single-year models – set in either the present or the future (say 2050) – assume a non-evolving capital structure and focus instead on the operational dynamics of the system. Single-year models normally embed considerable temporal (typically hourly resolution) and technical detail (such as individual generation plant and transmissions lines). Long-range models – cast over one or more decades (from the present until say 2050) – attempt to encapsulate the structural evolution of the system and are used to investigate capacity expansion and energy system transition issues.\n\nModels often use mathematical optimization to solve for redundancy in the specification of the system. Some of the techniques used derive from operations research. Most rely on linear programming (including mixed-integer programming), although some use nonlinear programming. Solvers may use classical or genetic optimisation, such as CMA-ES. Models may be recursive-dynamic, solving sequentially for each time interval, and thus evolving through time. Or they may be framed as a single forward-looking intertemporal problem, and thereby assume perfect foresight. Single-year engineering-based models usually attempt to minimize the short-run financial cost, while single-year market-based models use optimization to determine market clearing. Long-range models, usually spanning decades, attempt to minimize both the short and long-run costs as a single intertemporal problem.\n\nThe demand-side (or end-user domain) has historically received relatively scant attention, often modeled by just a simple demand curve. End-user energy demand curves, in the short-run at least, are normally found to be highly inelastic.\n\nAs intermittent energy sources and energy demand management grow in importance, models have needed to adopt an hourly temporal resolution in order to better capture their real-time dynamics. Long-range models are often limited to calculations at yearly intervals, based on typical day profiles, and are hence less suited to systems with significant variable renewable energy.\n\nImplementing languages include GAMS, MathProg, MATLAB, Mathematica, Python, R, Fortran, Java, C, C++, and Vensim. Occasionally spreadsheets are used.\n\nAs noted, IPCC-style integrated models (also known as integrated assessment models or IAM) are not considered here in any detail. Integrated models combine simplified sub-models of the world economy, agriculture and land-use, and the global climate system in addition to the world energy system. Examples include GCAM, MESSAGE, and REMIND.\n\nPublished surveys on energy system modeling have focused on techniques, general classification, an overview, decentralized planning, modeling methods, renewables integration, energy efficiency policies, electric vehicle integration, international development, and the use of layered models to support climate protection policy. Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project researchers have also analyzed model typologies. A 2014 paper outlines the modeling challenges ahead as energy systems become more complex and human and social factors become increasingly relevant.\n\nElectricity sector models are used to model electricity systems. The scope may be national or regional, depending on circumstances. For instance, given the presence of national interconnectors, the western European electricity system may be modeled in its entirety.\n\nEngineering-based models usually contain a good characterization of the technologies involved, including the high-voltage AC transmission grid where appropriate. Some models (for instance, models for Germany) may assume a single common bus or \"copper plate\" where the grid is strong. The demand-side in electricity sector models is typically represented by a fixed load profile.\n\nMarket-based models, in addition, represent the prevailing electricity market, which may include nodal pricing.\n\nGame theory and agent-based models are used to capture and study strategic behavior within electricity markets.\n\nIn addition to the electricity sector, energy system models include the heat, gas, mobility, and other sectors as appropriate. Energy system models are often national in scope, but may be municipal or international.\n\nSo-called \"top-down models\" are broadly economic in nature and based on either partial equilibrium or general equilibrium. General equilibrium models represent a specialized activity and require dedicated algorithms. Partial equilibrium models are more common.\n\nSo-called \"bottom-up models\" capture the engineering well and often rely on techniques from operations research. Individual plants are characterized by their efficiency curves (also known as input/output relations), nameplate capacities, investment costs (capex), and operating costs (opex). Some models allow for these parameters to depend on external conditions, such as ambient temperature.\n\nProducing hybrid top-down/bottom-up models to capture both the economics and the engineering has proved challenging.\n\nThis section lists some of the major models in use. These are typically run by national governments.\n\nLEAP (Long range Energy Alternatives Planning System) is a software tool for energy policy analysis and climate change mitigation assessment. LEAP was developed at the Stockholm Environment Institute's (SEI) US Center. LEAP can be used to examine city, statewide, national, and regional energy systems. LEAP is normally used for forecast studies of between 20–50 years. Most of its calculations occur at yearly intervals. LEAP allows policy analysts to create and evaluate alternative scenarios and to compare their energy requirements, social costs and benefits, and environmental impacts.\n\nGeneral Electric's MAPS (Multi-Area Production Simulation) is a production simulation model used by various Regional Transmission Organizations and Independent System Operators in the United States to plan for the economic impact of proposed electric transmission and generation facilities in FERC-regulated electric wholesale markets. Portions of the model may also be used for the commitment and dispatch phase (updated on 5 minute intervals) in operation of wholesale electric markets for RTO and ISO regions. ABB's PROMOD is a similar software package. These ISO and RTO regions also utilize a GE software package called MARS (Multi-Area Reliability Simulation) to ensure the power system meets reliability criteria (a loss-of-load-expectation (LOLE) of no greater than 0.1 days per year). Further, a GE software package called PSLF (Positive Sequence Load Flow) and a Siemens software package called PSSE (Power System Simulation for Engineering) analyzes load flow on the power system for short-circuits and stability during preliminary planning studies by RTOs and ISOs.\n\nMARKAL (MARKet ALlocation) is an integrated energy systems modeling platform, used to analyze energy, economic, and environmental issues at the global, national, and municipal level over time-frames of up to several decades. MARKAL can be used to quantify the impacts of policy options on technology development and natural resource depletion. The software was developed by the Energy Technology Systems Analysis Programme (ETSAP) of the International Energy Agency (IEA) over a period of almost two decades.\n\nTIMES (The Integrated MARKAL-EFOM System) is an evolution of MARKAL – both energy models have many similarities. TIMES succeeded MARKAL in 2008. Both models are technology explicit, dynamic partial equilibrium models of energy markets. In both cases, the equilibrium is determined by maximizing the total consumer and producer surplus via linear programming. Both MARKAL and TIMES are written in GAMS.\n\nThe TIMES model generator was also developed under the Energy Technology Systems Analysis Program (ETSAP). TIMES combines two different, but complementary, systematic approaches to modeling energy – a technical engineering approach and an economic approach. TIMES is a technology rich, bottom-up model generator, which uses linear programming to produce a least-cost energy system, optimized according to a number of user-specified constraints, over the medium to long-term. It is used for \"the exploration of possible energy futures based on contrasted scenarios\".\n\n, the MARKAL and TIMES model generators are in use in 177 institutions spread over 70 countries.\n\nNEMS (National Energy Modeling System) is a long-standing United States government policy model, run by the Department of Energy (DOE). NEMS computes equilibrium fuel prices and quantities for the US energy sector. To do so, the software iteratively solves a sequence of linear programs and nonlinear equations. NEMS has been used to explicitly model the demand-side, in particular to determine consumer technology choices in the residential and commercial building sectors.\n\nNEMS is used to produce the \"Annual Energy Outlook\" each year – for instance in 2015.\n\nPublic policy energy models have been criticized for being insufficiently transparent. The source code and data sets should at least be available for peer review, if not explicitly published. To improve transparency and public acceptance, some models are undertaken as open-source software projects, often developing a diverse community as they proceed. OSeMOSYS is one such example.\n\nGeneral\n\n\nModels\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18489776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18489776", "title": "Environment of Tennessee", "text": "Environment of Tennessee\n\nLocated in the Southeast United States, Tennessee is a state as diverse as its landscapes. Politically, Tennessee is broken up into three Grand Divisions: East, Middle, and West Tennessee. Physically, Tennessee is also separated into three main types of landforms: river valley plain, highlands and basins, and mountains.\n\nThe environment of Tennessee includes the nature centers of Discovery Center at Murfree Spring, Lichterman Nature Center and Owl's Hill Nature Center. In addition to these nature centers, there are many more options throughout the state like those in the capital of Nashville. These include Beaman Park Nature Center, Bells Bend Outdoor Center, Shelby Bottoms Nature Center, and Warner Park Natural Center.\n\n\n\nGlobal warming in the United States has been a salient topic since the Kyoto Protocol, as part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, that was established in 1992. The effects of global warming have been widely debated; however, there is evidence that suggests a slight increase in the core temperature of most states. In addition there seems to be a number of effects on ecological systems throughout the United States. In the state of Tennessee, one of the key effects of global warming seems to be the radical changes to the geological composition as well as wildlife health of the Ohio-Tennessee Basin.\n\nSome of the changes to the Ohio-Tennessee Basin include:\nSome key legislation that works to address global warming in Tennessee is as follows:\n\nExecutive Order 54 establishes the Energy Policy Task Force with the goal of creating a new state energy plan by December 1 of 2008.\n\nAnother order establishes the Interagency Alternative Fuels Working Group with the goal of making Tennessee a leader in the biofuels industry. The Working Group came up with an Alternative Fuels Strategic Plan which lays out goals for increasing biofuel and feedstock production and displacing petroleum use.\n\nPublic Chapter 489 (2007) requires all agencies and state educational institutions to create plans by January 1, 2008 to reduce or displace petroleum use in government fleet vehicles by 20%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39468060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39468060", "title": "Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources", "text": "Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources\n\nThe Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources (Bundesanstalt für Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe or BGR) is a German agency within the Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology. It acts as a central geoscience consulting institution for the German federal government. The headquarters of the agency is located in Hanover and there is a branch in Berlin. Early 2013, the BGR employed a total of 795 employees. The BGR, the State Authority for Mining, Energy and Geology and the Leibniz Institute for Applied Geophysics form the Geozentrum Hanover. All three institutions have a common management and infrastructure, and complement each other through their interdisciplinary expertise.\n\n"}
{"id": "22402006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22402006", "title": "Ferromanganese nodules", "text": "Ferromanganese nodules\n\nFerromanganese nodules form in the oxidizing environment of the abyssal pelagic zone. They are the result of ion exchange reactions that precipitate ore components from the water (sedimentary) or out of the interstitial water of the sediments layers (diagenetic). The composition of Manganese-bearing minerals is dependent on how the nodules are formed; sedimentary nodules, which have a lower Mn content than diagenetic, are dominated by Fe-vernadite, Mn-feroxyhyte, and asbolane-buserite while diagenetic nodules are dominated by buserite I, birnessite, todorokite, and asbolane-buserite.\n"}
{"id": "47889747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47889747", "title": "Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association", "text": "Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association\n\nFuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) was formed in November 2010 following the merger of two former associations representing different sectors of the industry, the U.S. Fuel Cell Council and the National Hydrogen Association.\n\nIn order to continue to advance and promote the use of fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies, the U.S. Fuel Cell Council (USFCC) and the National Hydrogen Association (NHA) are teaming up. This merger of two leaders in two given industries creates a powerful, unified Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA), a company who plans to send a strong, singular message to stakeholders: fuel cells and hydrogen are incredibly important parts to producing clean energy. The new organization is based out of Washington, D.C. \n\nA fuel cell is a device consisting of one positive electrode called the anode and one negative electrode called the cathode that generates electricity through chemical reactions. Hydrogen is the basic fuel for fuel cells, but fuel cells also require some oxygen. The push toward utilizing more fuel cells is based in the appeal of generating electricity cleanly. In the process of generating electricity, the hydrogen and oxygen used eventually combine to form water, a completely harmless byproduct. \n\nFuel cells produce an electrical current that can then be used outside the cell to do work. First, hydrogen atoms have their electrons removed through chemical reaction when they enter the cell at the anode, resulting in a positively charged hydrogen atom. Oxygen then enters the cell through the cathode where it combines with electrons returning from the electrical circuit and hydrogen ions that have traveled through the electrolyte (a piece of the fuel cell that carries electrically charged particles from one electrode to the other). The electrolyte is responsible for only allowing the correct ions to transfer between the anode and the cathode. As the hydrogen and oxygen combine, water is formed and drains from the cell. The fuel cell will continue to generate electricity as long as it is supplied with hydrogen and oxygen. There are multiple different kinds of fuel cells, including alkaline fuel cells, molten carbonate fuel cells, phosphoric acid fuel cells, proton exchange membrane fuel cells, and solid oxide fuel cells. \n\nHydrogen is an alternative fuel and is locked up in large quantities in water and other organic matter. Extracting hydrogen efficiently from these compounds can be difficult. Today, hydrogen in the United States is produced through steam reforming or combining high-temperature steam with natural gas. Hydrogen can be used to power fuel cells in zero-emission electric vehicles. It has even been proved that a fuel cell is two to three more times efficient than an internal combustion engine running on gas. \n\nThe first main problem is that hydrogen can be expensive to obtain in large quantities. Hydrogen gas stations are not yet a solution because it is difficult to store and distribute the element. A second issue is that fuel cells are expensive and building reliable, efficient, yet cheap fuel cells is a difficult task. The main problems when building fuel cells is high cost due to noble metals in the electrodes and the proton-exchange membranes assemblies. \n\nBloom Energy has created a fuel cell that does not use precious metals. It coats an electrolyte on one side with an anode and the other with a cathode both made from specialized inks, not precios metals. These fuel cells are currently being used by Yahoo, Wallmart, Home Depot and other Fortune 500 companies.\n"}
{"id": "43797463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43797463", "title": "Gilindire Cave", "text": "Gilindire Cave\n\nGilindire Cave (), also known as Aynalıgöl Cave, is a cave in Aydıncık, Mersin, southern Turkey. It was discovered by a shepherd in 1999. Gilindire was the former name of the town Aydıncık until 1965.\n\nGilindire Cave is located approximately southeast of Sancak Point and Kurtini Creek in the Aydıncık district, part of the Mersin Province. Its entrance faces the Mediterranean Sea, and a small village lies in front of the cave. The cave is accessible by sea via a 1 1/2-hour boat trip from Aydıncık, or by land via a 15–minute walk from the Antalya-Mersin highway. A steel stairway leads down to the cave's entrance from above.\n\nGilindire Cave stretches over an area of . Its entrance is on a cliff above sea level. The cave has a total length of and a clearance of . It is a horizontally-developed, polygenic-fossilized cave.\n\nThe cave features a wealth of stalagmites, stalactites, as well as \"pillar, wall and drapery dripstones, leakage stones and cave needles\" which divide the interior into many chambers. At the rear of the cave lies a long, wide, and deep lake surrounded by dripstones and pillars. The cave is called Aynalıgöl (literally: Mirror Lake) in common parlance, in reference to the presence of the lake.\n\nSome parts of the cave's main gallery are inhabited by bats. Outside the cave, the nearby bays are the habitat of the Mediterranean monk seal.\n\nGilindire Cave was discovered by a shepherd in 1999. When the state-owned Mineral Research and Exploration Co. (MTA) undertook exploration works in the cave, they discovered the lake at the end of the cave, from the entrance. In 2002, two Turkish photographers came to the cave by sea, and took photos for the magazine \"Atlas\" both in the cave and underwater in the lake. Archaeologists found potsherds in the cave belonging to the New Stone Age, Copper Age, and Early Bronze Age periods.\n\nAccording to a survey by experts, the cave was formed in the beginning of the transition phase after the last glacial climate change of the Quaternary Period, when the Mediterranean Sea rose , flooding the bottom of the cave. The change in the hydrological regime helped preserve the cave formations such as stalagmites and stalactites. Due to being under water, they have remained unaffected by atmospheric changes to the present day. The lake's water is brackish to a depth of , while deeper water is saline.\n\nIn 2013, Gilindire Cave was designated a nature reserve by the Ministry of Forest and Water Management. It was opened to the public, and has become a tourist attraction.\n"}
{"id": "34045910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34045910", "title": "Glaucia", "text": "Glaucia\n\nIn Greek mythology, Glaucia (Ancient Greek: Γλαυκία) was a daughter of the Trojan river god Scamander.\n\nWhen Heracles went to war against Troy, Deimachus, a Boeotian, one of the companions of Heracles, fell in love with Glaucia. But Deimachus was slain in battle before Glaucia had given birth to the child she had by him. She fled for refuge to Heracles, who took her with him to Greece, and entrusted her to the care of Eleon, the father of Deimachus. She there gave birth to a son, whom she called Scamander, and who afterwards obtained a tract of land in Boeotia, traversed by two streams, one of which (formerly Inachus) he called Scamander and the other Glaucia. He was married to Acidusa, from whom the Boeotian well Acidusa derived its name, and had three daughters, who were worshipped under the name of \"the three maidens.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5571569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5571569", "title": "Henry Nottidge Moseley", "text": "Henry Nottidge Moseley\n\nHenry Nottidge Moseley FRS (14 November 1844 – 10 November 1891) was a British naturalist who sailed on the global scientific expedition of HMS \"Challenger\" in 1872 through 1876.\n\nMoseley was born in Wandsworth, London, the son of Henry Moseley. He was educated at Harrow School, at Exeter College, Oxford (Arts) and at the University of London (medicine). He married Amabel Gwyn Jeffreys, daughter of the conchologist John Gwyn Jeffreys, in 1881, and they were the parents of the noted British physicist Henry Gwyn Jeffreys Moseley.\nMoseley delivered the Royal Society Croonian Lecture in 1878 and was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1879.He participated as naturalist in expeditions to Ceylon, to California, and to Oregon, and most notably he was in the \"Challenger\" expedition aboard of 1872 through 1876 which covered over of the world's oceans. Moseley began working at the University of London in 1879, and he was awarded the Linacre chair of human and comparative anatomy at Merton College, Oxford in 1881. In the same year, Moseley became involved in the negotiations for the donation of the Pitt-Rivers donation, which would form the Pitt Rivers Museum from 1884. Moseley, with Edward Burnett Tylor, oversaw the transfer of Pitt-Rivers' collection from London to Oxford\n\nMoseley exerted significant influences on his noted students Halford Mackinder and Walter Garstang, who changed his career choice from medicine to zoology under Moseley's supervision. Moseley was awarded the Royal Society's Royal Medal in 1887.\n\nMoseley's publications include :\n\nMoseley studied invertebrate biology and the phylogeny of arthropods, coral, and molluscs.\n\nMoseley is commemorated in the Latin name of the species, northern rockhopper penguin, the \"Eudyptes moseleyi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24574669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24574669", "title": "International Year of Biodiversity", "text": "International Year of Biodiversity\n\nThe International Year of Biodiversity (IYB) was a year-long celebration of biological diversity and its importance, taking place internationally in 2010. Coinciding with the date of the 2010 Biodiversity Target, the year was declared by the 61st session of the United Nations General Assembly in 2006.\n\nIt was meant to help raise awareness of the importance of biodiversity through activities and events, to influence decision makers, and \"to elevate biological diversity nearer to the top of the political agenda\".\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly declared 2010 as the International Year of Biodiversity (Resolution 61/203). This year coincided with the 2010 Biodiversity Target adopted by the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity and by Heads of State and government at the World Summit for Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in 2002.\n\nThe Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), based in Montreal, Canada, was coordinating the International Year of Biodiversity campaign.\n\nEstablished at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, the Convention on Biological Diversity is an international treaty for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and the equitable sharing of the benefits of biodiversity. The CBD has near-universal participation, with 193 Parties.\n\nThe main goals of the International Year of Biodiversity were to:\n\n\nThe information above, for the most part, is based on the official websites of the Convention on Biological Diversity and of the International Year of Biodiversity.\n\n"}
{"id": "385661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385661", "title": "Inverse scattering problem", "text": "Inverse scattering problem\n\nIn mathematics and physics, the inverse scattering problem is the problem of determining characteristics of an object, based on data of how it scatters incoming radiation or particles. It is the inverse problem to the direct scattering problem, which is to determine how radiation or particles are scattered based on the properties of the scatterer.\n\nSoliton equations are a class of partial differential equations which can be studied and solved by a method called the inverse scattering transform, which reduces the nonlinear PDEs to a linear inverse scattering problem. The nonlinear Schrödinger equation, the Korteweg–de Vries equation and the KP equation are examples of soliton equations. In one space dimension the inverse scattering problem is equivalent to a Riemann-Hilbert problem. Since its early statement for radiolocation, many applications have been found for inverse scattering techniques, including echolocation, geophysical survey, nondestructive testing, medical imaging, quantum field theory.\n\nhttps://www.springer.com/mathematics/dynamical+systems/book/978-1-4614-4941-6\n"}
{"id": "16317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16317", "title": "John James Audubon", "text": "John James Audubon\n\nJohn James Audubon (born Jean Rabin; April 26, 1785 – January 27, 1851) was an American ornithologist, naturalist, and painter. He was notable for his extensive studies documenting all types of American birds and for his detailed illustrations that depicted the birds in their natural habitats. His major work, a color-plate book entitled \"The Birds of America\" (1827–1839), is considered one of the finest ornithological works ever completed. Audubon identified 25 new species.\n\nAudubon was born in Les Cayes in the French colony of Saint-Domingue (now Haiti) on his father's sugarcane plantation. He was the son of Lieutenant Jean Audubon, a French naval officer (and privateer) from the south of Brittany, and his mistress Jeanne Rabine, a 27-year-old chambermaid from Les Touches, Brittany (now in the modern region Pays de la Loire). They named the boy Jean Rabin. Another 1887 biographer has stated that his mother was a lady from a Louisiana plantation. His mother died when the boy was a few months old, as she had suffered from tropical disease since arriving on the island. His father already had an unknown number of mixed-race children (among them a daughter named Marie-Madeleine), some by his mulatto housekeeper, Catherine \"Sanitte\" Bouffard (described as a quadroon, meaning she was three-quarters European in ancestry). Following Jeanne Rabin's death, Jean Audubon renewed his relationship with Sanitte Bouffard and had a daughter by her, named Muguet. Bouffard also took care of the infant boy Jean.\n\nThe senior Audubon had commanded ships. During the American Revolution, he had been imprisoned by Britain. After his release, he helped the American cause. He had long worked to save money and secure his family's future with real estate. Due to slave unrest in the Caribbean, in 1789 he sold part of his plantation in Saint-Domingue and purchased a 284-acre farm called Mill Grove, 20 miles from Philadelphia, to diversify his investments. Increasing tension in Saint-Domingue between the colonists and the African slaves, who greatly outnumbered them, convinced Jean Audubon to return to France, where he became a member of the Republican Guard. In 1791 he arranged for his natural children, Jean and Muguet, who were majority-white in ancestry, to be transported and delivered to him in France.\n\nThe children were raised in Couëron, near Nantes, France, by Audubon and his French wife, Anne Moynet Audubon, whom he had married years before his time in Saint-Domingue. In 1794 they formally adopted both his natural children to regularize their legal status in France. They renamed the boy Jean-Jacques Fougère Audubon and the girl Rose. When Audubon, at age 18, boarded ship in 1803 to immigrate to the United States, he changed his name to an anglicized form: John James Audubon.\n\nFrom his earliest days, Audubon had an affinity for birds. \"I felt an intimacy with them ... bordering on frenzy [that] must accompany my steps through life.\" His father encouraged his interest in nature:\n\nHe would point out the elegant movement of the birds, and the beauty and softness of their plumage. He called my attention to their show of pleasure or sense of danger, their perfect forms and splendid attire. He would speak of their departure and return with the seasons.\n\nIn France during the chaotic years of the French Revolution and its aftermath, the younger Audubon grew up to be a handsome and gregarious man. He played flute and violin, and learned to ride, fence, and dance. A great walker, he loved roaming in the woods, often returning with natural curiosities, including birds' eggs and nests, of which he made crude drawings. His father planned to make a seaman of his son. At twelve, Audubon went to military school and became a cabin boy. He quickly found out that he was susceptible to seasickness and not fond of mathematics or navigation. After failing the officer's qualification test, Audubon ended his incipient naval career. He was cheerfully back on solid ground and exploring the fields again, focusing on birds.\n\nIn 1803, his father obtained a false passport so that Audubon could go to the United States to avoid conscription in the Napoleonic Wars. Jean Audubon and Claude Rozier arranged a business partnership for their sons to pursue in Pennsylvania. It was based on Claude Rozier's buying half of Jean Audubon's share of a plantation in Haiti, and lending money to the partnership as secured by half interest in lead mining at Audubon's property of Mill Grove.\n\nAudubon caught yellow fever upon arrival in New York City. The ship's captain placed him in a boarding house run by Quaker women. They nursed Audubon to recovery and taught him English, including the Quaker form of using \"thee\" and \"thou\", otherwise then archaic. He traveled with the family's Quaker lawyer to the Audubon family farm Mill Grove. The homestead is located on the Perkiomen Creek a few miles from Valley Forge.\n\nAudubon lived with the tenants in the two-story stone house, in an area that he considered a paradise. \"Hunting, fishing, drawing, and music occupied my every moment; cares I knew not, and cared naught about them.\" Studying his surroundings, Audubon quickly learned the ornithologist's rule, which he wrote down as, \"The nature of the place—whether high or low, moist or dry, whether sloping north or south, or bearing tall trees or low shrubs—generally gives hint as to its inhabitants.\"\n\nHis father hoped that the lead mines on the property could be commercially developed, as lead was an essential component of bullets. This could provide his son with a profitable occupation. At Mill Grove, Audubon met the owner of the nearby estate Fatland Ford, William Bakewell, and his daughter Lucy. He was married to Lucy five years later. The two young people shared many common interests, and early on began to spend time together, exploring the natural world around them.\n\nAudubon set about to study American birds, determined to illustrate his findings in a more realistic manner than most artists did then. He began conducting the first known bird-banding on the continent: he tied yarn to the legs of eastern phoebes and determined that they returned to the same nesting spots year after year. He also began drawing and painting birds, and recording their behavior. After an accidental fall into a creek, Audubon contracted a severe fever. He was nursed and recovered at Fatland Ford, with Lucy at his side.\n\nRisking conscription in France, Audubon returned in 1805 to see his father and ask permission to marry. He also needed to discuss family business plans. While there, he met the naturalist and physician Charles-Marie D'Orbigny, who improved Audubon's taxidermy skills and taught him scientific methods of research. Although his return ship was overtaken by an English privateer, Audubon and his hidden gold coins survived the encounter.\n\nAudubon resumed his bird studies and created his own nature museum, perhaps inspired by the great museum of natural history created by Charles Willson Peale in Philadelphia. Peale's bird exhibits were considered scientifically advanced. Audubon's room was brimming with birds' eggs, stuffed raccoons and opossums, fish, snakes, and other creatures. He had become proficient at specimen preparation and taxidermy.\n\nDeeming the mining venture too risky, with his father's approval Audubon sold part of the Mill Grove farm, including the house and mine. He retained some land for investment. He went to New York to learn the import-export trade, hoping to find a business to support his marriage to Lucy. The protective Mr. Bakewell wanted to see the young Frenchman established in a solid career before releasing his daughter to him.\n\nIn 1808, Audubon moved to Kentucky, which was rapidly being settled. Six months later, he married Lucy Bakewell. Though their finances were tenuous, the Audubons started a family. They had two sons: Victor Gifford (1809–1860) and (1812–1862); and two daughters who died while still young: Lucy at two years (1815–1817) and Rose at nine months (1819–1820). Both sons would eventually help publish their father's works. John W. Audubon became a naturalist, writer, and painter in his own right, receiving his own obituary in an 1862 yearbook.\n\nAudubon and Jean Ferdinand Rozier moved their merchant business partnership west at various stages, ending ultimately in Ste. Genevieve, Missouri, a former French colonial settlement west of the Mississippi River and south of St. Louis. Shipping goods ahead, Audubon and Rozier started a general store in Louisville, Kentucky on the Ohio River; the city had an increasingly important slave market and was the most important port between Pittsburgh and New Orleans. Soon he was drawing bird specimens again. He regularly burned his earlier efforts to force continuous improvement. He also took detailed field notes to document his drawings.\n\nDue to rising tensions with the British, President Jefferson ordered an embargo on British trade in 1808, adversely affecting Audubon's trading business. In 1810, Audubon moved his business further west to the less competitive Henderson, Kentucky, area. He and his small family took over an abandoned log cabin. In the fields and forests, Audubon wore typical frontier clothes and moccasins, having \"a ball pouch, a buffalo horn filled with gunpowder, a butcher knife, and a tomahawk on his belt.\"\n\nHe frequently turned to hunting and fishing to feed his family, as business was slow. On a prospecting trip down the Ohio River with a load of goods, Audubon joined up with Shawnee and Osage hunting parties, learning their methods, drawing specimens by the bonfire, and finally parting \"like brethren.\" Audubon had great respect for Native Americans: \"Whenever I meet Indians, I feel the greatness of our Creator in all its splendor, for there I see the man naked from His hand and yet free from acquired sorrow.\" Audubon also admired the skill of Kentucky riflemen and the \"regulators\", citizen lawmen who created a kind of justice on the Kentucky frontier. In his travel notes, he claims to have encountered Daniel Boone.\n\nAudubon and Rozier mutually agreed to end their partnership at Ste. Genevieve on April 6, 1811. Audubon had decided to work at ornithology and art, and wanted to return to Lucy and their son in Kentucky. Rozier agreed to pay Audubon $3,000 (equivalent to ~$120,000 in 2010 dollars), with $1,000 in cash and the balance to be paid over time.\n\nThe terms of the dissolution of the partnership include those by Audubon:\n\nAudubon was working in Missouri and out riding when the 1811 New Madrid earthquake struck. When Audubon reached his house, he was relieved to find no major damage, but the area was shaken by aftershocks for months. The quake is estimated by scholars to have ranked from 8.4 to 8.8 on today's Richter Scale of severity, stronger than the San Francisco earthquake of 1906 which is estimated at 7.8. Audubon writes that while on horseback, he first believed the distant rumbling to be the sound of a tornado,\n\nbut the animal knew better than I what was forthcoming, and instead of going faster, so nearly stopped that I remarked he placed one foot after another on the ground with as much precaution as if walking on a smooth piece of ice. I thought he had suddenly foundered, and, speaking to him, was on point of dismounting and leading him, when he all of a sudden fell a-groaning pieteously, hung his head, spread out his forelegs, as if to save himself from falling, and stood stock still, continuing to groan. I thought my horse was about to die, and would have sprung from his back had a minute more elapsed; but as that instant all the shrubs and trees began to move from their very roots, the ground rose and fell in successive furrows, like the ruffled water of a lake, and I became bewildered in my ideas, as I too plainly discovered, that all this awful commotion was the result of an earthquake. I had never witnessed anything of the kind before, although like every person, I knew earthquakes by description. But what is description compared to reality! Who can tell the sensations which I experienced when I found myself rocking, as it were, upon my horse, and with him moving to and fro like a child in a cradle, with the most imminent danger around me.\n\nHe noted that as the earthquake retreated, \"the air was filled with an extremely disagreeable sulphurous odor.\"\n\nDuring a visit to Philadelphia in 1812 following Congress' declaration of war against Great Britain, Audubon became an American citizen and had to give up his French citizenship. After his return to Kentucky, he found that rats had eaten his entire collection of more than 200 drawings. After weeks of depression, he took to the field again, determined to re-do his drawings to an even higher standard.\n\nThe War of 1812 upset Audubon's plans to move his business to New Orleans. He formed a partnership with Lucy's brother and built up their trade in Henderson. Between 1812 and the Panic of 1819, times were good. Audubon bought land and slaves, founded a flour mill, and enjoyed his growing family. After 1819, Audubon went bankrupt and was thrown into jail for debt. The little money he earned was from drawing portraits, particularly death-bed sketches, greatly esteemed by country folk before photography. He wrote, \"[M]y heart was sorely heavy, for scarcely had I enough to keep my dear ones alive; and yet through these dark days I was being led to the development of the talents I loved.\"\n\nAfter a short stay in Cincinnati to work as a naturalist and taxidermist at a museum, Audubon traveled south on the Mississippi with his gun, paintbox, and assistant Joseph Mason, who stayed with him from October 1820 to August 1822 and painted the plant life backgrounds of many of Audubon's bird studies. He was committed to find and paint all the birds of North America for eventual publication. His goal was to surpass the earlier ornithological work of poet-naturalist Alexander Wilson. Though he could not afford to buy Wilson's work, Audubon used it to guide him when he had access to a copy.\n\nIn 1818 Rafinesque visited Kentucky and the Ohio River valley to study fishes and was a guest of Audubon. In the middle of the night, Rafinesque noticed a bat in his room and thought it was a new species. He happened to grab Audubon's favourite violin in an effort to knock the bat down, resulting in the destruction of the violin. Audubon reportedly took revenge by showing drawings and describing some fictitious fishes and rodents to Rafinesque; Rafinesque gave scientific names to some of these fishes in his \"Ichthyologia Ohiensis\".\n\nOn October 12, 1820, Audubon traveled into Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida in search of ornithological specimens. He traveled with George Lehman, a professional Swiss landscape artist. The following summer, he moved upriver to the Oakley Plantation in Feliciana Parish, Louisiana, where he taught drawing to Eliza Pirrie, the young daughter of the owners. Though low-paying, the job was ideal, as it afforded him much time to roam and paint in the woods. (The plantation has been preserved as the Audubon State Historic Site, and is located at 11788 Highway 965, between Jackson and St. Francisville.)\n\nAudubon called his future work \"The Birds of America\". He attempted to paint one page each day. Painting with newly discovered technique, he decided his earlier works were inferior and re-did them. He hired hunters to gather specimens for him. Audubon realized the ambitious project would take him away from his family for months at a time.\n\nAudubon sometimes used his drawing talent to trade for goods or sell small works to raise cash. He made charcoal portraits on demand at $5 each and gave drawing lessons. In 1823 Audubon took lessons in oil painting technique from John Steen, a teacher of American landscape, and history painter Thomas Cole. Though he did not use oils much for his bird work, Audubon earned good money painting oil portraits for patrons along the Mississippi. (Audubon's account reveals that he learned oil painting in December 1822 from Jacob Stein, an itinerant portrait artist. After they had enjoyed all the portrait patronage to be expected in Natchez, Mississippi, during January–March 1823, they resolved to travel together as perambulating portrait-artists.) During this period (1822–1823), Audubon also worked as an instructor at Jefferson College in Washington, Mississippi.\n\nLucy became the steady breadwinner for the couple and their two young sons. Trained as a teacher, she conducted classes for children in their home. Later she was hired as a local teacher in Louisiana. She boarded with their children at the home of a wealthy plantation owner, as was often the custom of the time.\n\nIn 1824, Audubon returned to Philadelphia to seek a publisher for his bird drawings. Though he met Thomas Sully, one of the most famous portrait painters of the time and a valuable ally, Audubon was rebuffed for publication. He had earned the enmity of some of the city's leading scientists at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. He took oil painting lessons from Sully and met Charles Bonaparte, who admired his work and recommended he go to Europe to have his bird drawings engraved.\n\nWith his wife's support, in 1826 at age 41, Audubon took his growing collection of work to England. He sailed from New Orleans to Liverpool on the cotton hauling ship \"Delos\", reaching England in the autumn of 1826 with his portfolio of over 300 drawings. With letters of introduction to prominent Englishmen, Audubon gained their quick attention. \"I have been received here in a manner not to be expected during my highest enthusiastic hopes.\"\nThe British could not get enough of Audubon's images of backwoods America and its natural attractions. He met with great acceptance as he toured around England and Scotland, and was lionized as \"the American woodsman.\" He raised enough money to begin publishing his \"The Birds of America\". This monumental work consists of 435 hand-colored, life-size prints of 497 bird species, made from engraved copper plates of various sizes depending on the size of the image. They were printed on sheets measuring about 39 by . The work contains slightly more than 700 North American bird species, of which some was based on specimens collected by fellow ornithologist John Kirk Townsend on his journey across America with Thomas Nuttall in 1834 as part of Nathaniel Jarvis Wyeth's second expedition across the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe pages were organized for artistic effect and contrasting interest, as if the reader were taking a visual tour. (Some critics thought he should have organized the plates in Linnaean order as befitting a \"serious\" ornithological treatise.) The first and perhaps most famous plate was the wild turkey.\n\nThe cost of printing the entire work was $115,640 (over $2,000,000 today), paid for from advance subscriptions, exhibitions, oil painting commissions, and animal skins, which Audubon hunted and sold. Audubon's great work was a remarkable accomplishment. It took more than 14 years of field observations and drawings, plus his single-handed management and promotion of the project to make it a success. A reviewer wrote,\n\nAll anxieties and fears which overshadowed his work in its beginning had passed away. The prophecies of kind but overprudent friends, who did not understand his self-sustaining energy, had proved untrue; the malicious hope of his enemies, for even the gentle lover of nature has enemies, had been disappointed; he had secured a commanding place in the respect and gratitude of men.\n\nColorists applied each color in assembly-line fashion (over fifty were hired for the work). The original edition was engraved in aquatint by Robert Havell, Jr., who took over the task after the first ten plates engraved by W. H. Lizars were deemed inadequate. Known as the Double Elephant folio after its double elephant paper size, it is often regarded as the greatest picture book ever produced and the finest aquatint work. By the 1830s, the aquatint process was largely superseded by lithography. A contemporary French critic wrote, \"A magic power transported us into the forests which for so many years this man of genius has trod. Learned and ignorant alike were astonished at the spectacle ... It is a real and palpable vision of the New World.\"\n\nAudubon sold oil-painted copies of the drawings to make extra money and publicize the book. A potential publisher had his portrait painted by John Syme, who clothed the naturalist in frontier clothes. The portrait was hung at the entrance of his exhibitions, promoting his rustic image. (The painting is now held in the White House art collection, and is not frequently displayed.). The New-York Historical Society holds all 435 of the preparatory watercolors for \"The Birds of America\". Lucy Audubon sold them to the society after her husband's death. All but 80 of the original copper plates were melted down when Lucy Audubon, desperate for money, sold them for scrap to the Phelps Dodge Corporation.\n\nKing George IV was among the avid fans of Audubon and subscribed to support publication of the book. London's Royal Society recognized Audubon's achievement by electing him as a fellow. He was the second American to be elected after statesman Benjamin Franklin. While in Edinburgh to seek subscribers for the book, Audubon gave a demonstration of his method of supporting birds with wire at professor Robert Jameson's Wernerian Natural History Association. Student Charles Darwin was in the audience. Audubon also visited the dissecting theatre of the anatomist Robert Knox. Audubon was a hit in France as well, gaining the King and several of the nobility as subscribers.\n\n\"The Birds of America\" became very popular during Europe's Romantic era. Audubon's dramatic portraits of birds appealed to people in this period's fascination with natural history.\n\nAudubon returned to America in 1829 to complete more drawings for his magnum opus. He also hunted animals and shipped the valued skins to British friends. He was reunited with his family. After settling business affairs, Lucy accompanied him back to England. Audubon found that during his absence, he had lost some subscribers due to the uneven quality of coloring of the plates. Others were in arrears in their payments. His engraver fixed the plates and Audubon reassured subscribers, but a few begged off. He responded, \" 'The Birds of America' will then raise in value as much as they are now depreciated by certain fools and envious persons.\" He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1830.\n\nHe followed \"The Birds of America\" with a sequel \"Ornithological Biographies\". This was a collection of life histories of each species written with Scottish ornithologist William MacGillivray. The two books were printed separately to avoid a British law requiring copies of all publications with text to be deposited in Crown libraries, a huge financial burden for the self-published Audubon. Both books were published between 1827 and 1839.\n\nDuring the 1830s, Audubon continued making expeditions in North America. During a trip to Key West, a companion wrote in a newspaper article, \"Mr. Audubon is the most enthusiastic and indefatigable man I ever knew ... Mr. Audubon was neither dispirited by heat, fatigue, or bad luck ... he rose every morning at 3 o'clock and went out ... until 1 o'clock.\" Then he would draw the rest of the day before returning to the field in the evening, a routine he kept up for weeks and months. In the posthumously published book, \"The Life of John James Audubon\", edited by his wife and derived primarily from his notes, Audubon related visiting the northeastern Florida coastal sugar plantation of John Joachim Bulow for Christmas 1831/early January 1832. It was started by his father and at 4,675 acres, was the largest in East Florida. Bulow had a sugar mill built there under direction of a Scottish engineer, who accompanied Audubon on an excursion in the region. The mill was destroyed in 1836 in the Seminole Wars. The plantation site is preserved today as the Bulow Plantation Ruins Historic State Park.\n\nIn 1833, Audubon sailed north from Maine, accompanied by his son John, and five other young colleagues, to explore the ornithology of Labrador. On the return voyage, their ship \"Ripley\" made a stop at St. George's, Newfoundland. There Audubon and his assistants documented 36 species of birds.\n\nAudubon painted some of his works while staying at the Key West house and gardens of Capt. John H. Geiger. This site was preserved as the Audubon House and Tropical Gardens.\n\nIn 1841, having finished the \"Ornithological Biographies\", Audubon returned to the United States with his family. He bought an estate on the Hudson River in northern Manhattan. (The roughly 20-acre estate came to be known as Audubon Park in the 1860s when Audubon's widow began selling off parcels of the estate for the development of free-standing single family homes.). Between 1840 and 1844, he published an octavo edition of \"The Birds of America\", with 65 additional plates. Printed in standard format to be more affordable than the oversize British edition, it earned $36,000 and was purchased by 1100 subscribers. Audubon spent much time on \"subscription gathering trips\", drumming up sales of the octavo edition, as he hoped to leave his family a sizable income.\n\nAudubon made some excursions out West where he hoped to record Western species he had missed, but his health began to fail. In 1848, he manifested signs of senility or possibly dementia from what is now called Alzheimer's disease, his \"noble mind in ruins.\" He died at his family home in northern Manhattan on January 27, 1851. Audubon is buried in the graveyard at the Church of the Intercession in the Trinity Church Cemetery and Mausoleum at 155th Street and Broadway in Manhattan, near his home. An imposing monument in his honor was erected at the cemetery, which is now recognized as part of the Heritage Rose District of NYC.\n\nAudubon's final work dealt with mammals; he prepared \"The Viviparous Quadrupeds of North America\" (1845–1849) in collaboration with his good friend Rev John Bachman of Charleston, South Carolina, who supplied much of the scientific text. His son, John Woodhouse Audubon, drew most of the plates. The work was completed by Audubon's sons, and the second volume was published posthumously in 1851.\n\nAudubon developed his own methods for drawing birds. First, he killed them using fine shot. He then used wires to prop them into a natural position, unlike the common method of many ornithologists, who prepared and stuffed the specimens into a rigid pose. When working on a major specimen like an eagle, he would spend up to four 15-hour days, preparing, studying, and drawing it. His paintings of birds are set true-to-life in their natural habitat. He often portrayed them as if caught in motion, especially feeding or hunting. This was in stark contrast to the stiff representations of birds by his contemporaries, such as Alexander Wilson. Audubon based his paintings on his extensive field observations.\n\nHe worked primarily with watercolor early on. He added colored chalk or pastel to add softness to feathers, especially those of owls and herons. He employed multiple layers of watercoloring, and sometimes used gouache. All species were drawn life size which accounts for the contorted poses of the larger birds as Audubon strove to fit them within the page size. Smaller species were usually placed on branches with berries, fruit, and flowers. He used several birds in a drawing to present all views of anatomy and wings. Larger birds were often placed in their ground habitat or perching on stumps. At times, as with woodpeckers, he combined several species on one page to offer contrasting features. He frequently depicted the birds' nests and eggs, and occasionally natural predators, such as snakes. He usually illustrated male and female variations, and sometimes juveniles. In later drawings, Audubon used assistants to render the habitat for him. In addition to faithful renderings of anatomy, Audubon also employed carefully constructed composition, drama, and slightly exaggerated poses to achieve artistic as well as scientific effects.\n\nAudubon's influence on ornithology and natural history was far reaching. Nearly all later ornithological works were inspired by his artistry and high standards. Charles Darwin quoted Audubon three times in \"On the Origin of Species\" and also in later works. Despite some errors in field observations, he made a significant contribution to the understanding of bird anatomy and behavior through his field notes. \"The Birds of America\" is still considered one of the greatest examples of book art. Audubon discovered 25 new species and 12 new subspecies.\n\nAudubon is the subject of the 1969 book-length poem, \"Audubon: A Vision\" by Robert Penn Warren. Stephen Vincent Benét, with his wife Rosemary Benét, included a poem about Audubon in the children's poetry book \"A Book of Americans\".\n\nAudubon's 1833 trip to Labrador is the subject of the novel \"Creation\" by Katherine Govier. Audubon and his wife, Lucy, are the chief characters in the \"June\" section of the Maureen Howard novel \"Big as Life: Three Tales for Spring\". In the novel \"Audubon's Watch\", John Gregory Brown explores a mysterious death that took place on a Louisiana plantation when Audubon worked there as a young man.\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "54894498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54894498", "title": "Kanalon Monastery", "text": "Kanalon Monastery\n\nThe Kanalon Monastery (), formally the Monastery of the Nativity of the Theotokos of Kanalon (), is a Greek Orthodox convent in the north-east of the Greek region of Thessaly. Beside the monasteries of Agios Dionysios and Agia Triada, Sparmos it is one of the monasteries located at Mount Olympus.\n\nThe convent is located east of Karya, on the road connecting it with Leptokarya, above the river Ziliana. The distance to Leptokarya is about 18 km, the distance (air line) to the ancient Leivithra is about 7 km. It is located at an altitude of 820 m and is surrounded by forest. \n\nThe name of the monastery refers to four wild brooks in the vicinity, called \"kanalia\" (κανάλια, \"channels\"), which combined to form the Ziliana river.\n\nAccording to tradition, the monastery was founded in 1055 by the monks Damian and Joachim, who dedicated it to the birth of the Holy Mother of God (\"Theotokos\"). The 19th-century French traveller Léon Heuzey, on the other hand, dated the foundation of the monastery to the ninth century. The first written record, however, is a 1638 inscription on the painting of frescoes for the chapel dedicated to All Saints. At that time, the complex consisted of the refectory and the katholikon. In 1681, a chapel dedicated to Saint Demetrios was added. The western wing, which now houses the cells of the inhabitants, was built later.\n\nThe monastery flourished in the 17th century, when large-scale restoration and decoration work took place in the complex. During the 19th century, the complex was raided and suffered considerable devastation. In 1881 the \"katholikon\" collapsed for unknown reasons, two years later it was rebuilt on the old foundations. Despite its stauropegic status, it was finally abandoned in 1930.\n\nThe monastery is operating again as a female convent since 2001. , the renovation work has been largely completed and the paintings in the chapel of Saint Demetrios are to be restored.\n\nParts of the original complex survive: the high fortified wall surrounding it, the refectory in the northern part, a handful of cells on the northeaster side, the \"katholikon\", and the chapel of Saint Demetrios.\n\nThe \"katholikon\" is a three-aisled basilica topped by a dome. It had a separate upper gallery for women (\"gynaikonites\"). It was built in 1833, collapsed in 1881, and rebuilt in 1883 to the designs of the architect Efthymios Milios from Pentalofos. Its masonry is of locally quarried stone and marble. The chapel of Saint Demetrios is a small, single-room building that was built in 1684 and painted in 1689–1696. The small cemetery chapel dedicated to All Saints is the oldest building, with frescoes dating to 1638. The refectory is an elongated building with three apses on its eastern end, which are also decorated with frescoes.\n"}
{"id": "4599634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4599634", "title": "Kimmeridge Clay", "text": "Kimmeridge Clay\n\nThe Kimmeridge Clay is a sedimentary deposit of fossiliferous marine clay which is of Late Jurassic to lowermost Cretaceous age and occurs in southern and eastern England and in the North Sea. This rock formation is the major source rock for North Sea oil. The fossil fauna of the Kimmeridge Clay includes turtles, crocodiles, sauropods, plesiosaurs, pliosaurs and ichthyosaurs, as well as a number of invertebrate species. \n\nKimmeridge Clay is named after the village of Kimmeridge on the Dorset coast of England, where it is well exposed and forms part of the Jurassic Coast World Heritage Site. Onshore it outcrops across England, in a band stretching from Dorset in the south-west, north-east to North Yorkshire. Offshore it is found throughout the Southern, Central and Northern North Sea.\n\nThe foundations of the Humber Bridge on the southern (Barton) side of the bridge are on Kimmeridge Clay beneath superficial deposits, under the Humber estuary.\n\nKimmeridge Clay is of great economic importance, being the major source rock for oil fields in the North Sea hydrocarbon province. It has distinctive physical properties and log responses.\n\nA Kimmeridge Oil Shale Project (KOSP) has been pursued by the UK based oil and shale gas exploration company Cuadrilla Resources.\n\nFauna uncovered from the Kimmeridge Clay include:\n\nIndeterminate nodosaurid remains have been found in Wiltshire, England. Indeterminate stegosaurid remains have been found in Dorset and Wiltshire, England.\n\nIndeterminate ornithomimmid remains have been found in Dorset, England. An undescribed theropod genus was found in Dorset.\n\nThe invertebrate fauna of the Kimmeridge Clay includes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20163646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20163646", "title": "Kinetic energy recovery system", "text": "Kinetic energy recovery system\n\nA kinetic energy recovery system (often known simply as KERS) is an automotive system for recovering a moving vehicle's kinetic energy under braking. The recovered energy is stored in a reservoir (for example a flywheel or high voltage batteries) for later use under acceleration. Examples include complex high end systems such as the Zytek, Flybrid, Torotrak and Xtrac used in Formula One racing and simple, easily manufactured and integrated differential based systems such as the Cambridge Passenger/Commercial Vehicle Kinetic Energy Recovery System (CPC-KERS).\n\nXtrac and Flybrid are both licensees of Torotrak's technologies, which employ a small and sophisticated ancillary gearbox incorporating a continuously variable transmission (CVT). The CPC-KERS is similar as it also forms part of the driveline assembly. However, the whole mechanism including the flywheel sits entirely in the vehicle's hub (looking like a drum brake). In the CPC-KERS, a differential replaces the CVT and transfers torque between the flywheel, drive wheel and road wheel.\n\nThe first of these systems to be revealed was the Flybrid. This system weighs 24 kg (53 lbs) and has an energy capacity of 400 kJ after allowing for internal losses. A maximum power boost of 60 kW (81.6 PS, 80.4 HP) for 6.67 seconds is available. The 240 mm (9.4\") diameter flywheel weighs 5.0 kg (11 lbs) and revolves at up to 64,500 rpm. Maximum torque at the flywheel is 18 Nm (13.3 ftlbs), and the torque at the gearbox connection is correspondingly higher for the change in speed. The system occupies a volume of 13 litres.\nAlready in 2006, a first KERS system based on supercapacitors has been studied at EPFL (Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne) in the framework of the development of the \"Formula S2000\". A 180kJ system has been developed in collaboration with other institutes (Multiphysic Modeling of a Hybrid Propulsion System for a Racecar Application, A. Rufer, P. Barrade, M. Correvon and J.-F. Weber, iamf EET-2008 : European Ele-Drive Conference, International Advanced Mobility Forum, Geneva, Switzerland, 11–13 March 2008).\n\nTwo minor incidents were reported during testing of various KERS systems in . The first occurred when the Red Bull Racing team tested their KERS battery for the first time in July: it malfunctioned and caused a fire scare that led to the team's factory being evacuated. The second was less than a week later when a BMW Sauber mechanic was given an electric shock when he touched Christian Klien's KERS-equipped car during a test at the Jerez circuit.\n\nFormula One has stated that they support responsible solutions to the world's environmental challenges, and the FIA allowed the use of KERS in the regulations for the 2009 Formula One season. Teams began testing systems in 2008: energy can either be stored as mechanical energy (as in a flywheel) or as electrical energy (as in a battery or supercapacitor).\nWith the introduction of KERS in the 2009 season, only four teams used it at some point in the season: Ferrari, Renault, BMW and McLaren. Eventually, during the season, Renault and BMW stopped using the system. Vodafone McLaren Mercedes became the first team to win an F1 GP using a KERS equipped car when Lewis Hamilton won the Hungarian Grand Prix on July 26, 2009. Their second KERS equipped car finished fifth. At the following race, Lewis Hamilton became the first driver to take pole position with a KERS car, his teammate, Heikki Kovalainen qualifying second. This was also the first instance of an all KERS front row. On August 30, 2009, Kimi Räikkönen won the Belgian Grand Prix with his KERS equipped Ferrari. It was the first time that KERS contributed directly to a race victory, with second placed Giancarlo Fisichella claiming \"Actually, I was quicker than Kimi. He only took me because of KERS at the beginning\".\n\nAlthough KERS was still legal in F1 in the 2010 season, all the teams had agreed not to use it. New rules for the 2011 F1 season which raised the minimum weight limit of the car and driver by 20 kg to 640 kg, along with the FOTA teams agreeing to the use of KERS devices once more, meant that KERS returned for the 2011 season. Use of KERS was still optional as in the 2009 season; and at the start of the 2011 season three teams elected not to use it.\n\nWilliamsF1 developed their own flywheel-based KERS system but decided not to use it in their F1 cars due to packaging issues, and have instead developed their own electrical KERS system. However, they set up Williams Hybrid Power to sell their developments. In 2012 it was announced that the Audi Le Mans R18 hybrid cars would use Williams Hybrid Power.\n\nSince 2014, the power capacity of the KERS units were increased from to . This was introduced to balance the sport's move from 2.4 litre V8 engines to 1.6 litre V6 TURBO engines.\n\nBosch Motorsport Service is developing a KERS for use in motor racing. These electricity storage systems for hybrid and engine functions include a lithium-ion battery with scalable capacity or a flywheel, a four to eight kilogram electric motor (with a maximum power level of 60 kW (81 hp)), as well as the KERS controller for power and battery management. Bosch also offers a range of electric hybrid systems for commercial and light-duty applications.\n\nSeveral automakers have been testing KERS systems. At the 2008 1000 km of Silverstone, Peugeot Sport unveiled the Peugeot 908 HY, a hybrid electric variant of the diesel 908, with KERS. Peugeot planned to campaign the car in the 2009 Le Mans Series season, although it was not allowed to score championship points.\n\nVodafone McLaren Mercedes began testing of their KERS in September 2008 at the Jerez test track in preparation for the 2009 F1 season, although at that time it was not yet known if they would be operating an electrical or mechanical system. In November 2008 it was announced that Freescale Semiconductor would collaborate with McLaren Electronic Systems to further develop its KERS for McLaren's Formula One car from 2010 onwards. Both parties believed this collaboration would improve McLaren's KERS system and help the system to transfer its technology to road cars.\n\nToyota has used a supercapacitor for regeneration on Supra HV-R hybrid race car that won the Tokachi 24-Hour endurance race in July 2007. This Supra became the first hybrid car in the history of motorsport to win such a race.\n\nAt the NAIAS 2011, Porsche unveiled a RSR variant of their Porsche 918 concept car which uses a flywheel-based KERS that sits beside the driver in the passenger compartment and boosts the dual electric motors driving the front wheels and the 565 BHP V8 gasoline engine driving the rear to a combined power output of 767 BHP. This system has many problems including the imbalance caused to the vehicle due to the flywheel. Porsche is currently developing an electrical storage system.\n\nIn 2011, Mazda has announced i-ELOOP, a system which uses a variable-voltage alternator to convert kinetic energy to electric power during deceleration. The energy, stored in a double-layer capacitor, is used to supply power needed by vehicle electrical systems. When used in conjunction with Mazda's start-stop system, i-Stop, the company claims fuel savings of up to 10%.\n\nBosch and PSA Peugeot Citroën have developed a hybrid system that use hydraulics as a way to transfer energy to and from a compressed nitrogen tank. An up to 45% reduction in fuel consumption is claimed, corresponding to 2.9l/100 km (81 mpg, 69 g CO/km) on the NEDC cycle for a compact frame like Peugeot 208. The system is claimed to be much more affordable than competing electric and flywheel systems and was expected on road cars by 2016 but was abandoned in 2015.\n\nKTM racing boss Harald Bartol revealed that the factory raced with a secret kinetic energy recovery system fitted to Tommy Koyama's motorcycle during the 2008 season-ending 125cc Valencian Grand Prix. The system was later ruled illegal and thus was banned. The Lit C-1 electric motorcycle will also use a KERS as a regenerative braking system.\n\nKERS is also possible on a bicycle. The EPA, working with students from the University of Michigan, developed the hydraulic Regenerative Brake Launch Assist (RBLA)\n\nThis has also been demonstrated by mounting a flywheel on a bike frame and connecting it with a CVT to the back wheel. By shifting the gear, 20% of the kinetic energy can be stored in the flywheel, ready to give an acceleration boost by reshifting the gear.\n\nExperimental Machinist Douglas Goncz connected three ultracapacitor packs on an electric hub equipped recumbent bicycle in series/parallel with a 4PDT toggle switch in 2007 and described the resulting MObile Experimental Physics Educational Demonstrator (MOEPED) and its 19 kJ \"electric flywheel\" in a newsgroup posting to the moderated newsgroup sci.physics.research dated 11/9 of that year titled \"MOEPED Update\" and in other newsgroup threads under the keyword \"MOEPED\". In parallel, the packs were a regenerative brake; in series, they were a boost source. The vehicle remained in use so equipped until 2010. It was surplus disposed in 2013.\n\nAutomobile Club de l'Ouest, the organizer behind the annual 24 Hours of Le Mans event and the Le Mans Series, has promoted the use of kinetic energy recovery systems in the LMP1 class since the late 2000s. Peugeot was the first manufacturer to unveil a fully functioning LMP1 car in the form of the 908 HY at the 2008 Autosport 1000 km race at Silverstone.\n\nThe 2011 24 Hours of Le Mans saw Hope Racing enter with a Flybrid Systems mechanical KERS, to be the first car ever to compete at the event with a hybrid. The system consisted of high speed slipping clutches which transfer torque to and from the vehicle, coupled to a 60,000 rpm flywheel.\n\nAudi and Toyota both developed LMP1 cars with kinetic energy recovery systems for the 2012 and 2013 24 Hours of Le Mans. The Audi R18 e-tron quattro uses a flywheel-based system, while the Toyota TS030 Hybrid uses a supercapacitor-based system. When Porsche announced its return to Le Mans in 2014, it also unveiled an LMP1 car with a kinetic energy recovery system. The Porsche 919 Hybrid, introduced in 2014, uses a battery system, in contrast to the previous Porsche 911 GT3 R Hybrid that used a flywheel system.\n\n"}
{"id": "14242868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14242868", "title": "Langmuir circulation", "text": "Langmuir circulation\n\nIn physical oceanography, Langmuir circulation consists of a series of shallow, slow, counter-rotating vortices at the ocean's surface aligned with the wind.\nThese circulations are developed when wind blows steadily over the sea surface. \nIrving Langmuir discovered this phenomenon after observing windrows of seaweed in the Sargasso Sea in 1927.\nLangmuir circulations circulate within the mixed layer; however, it is not yet so clear how strongly they can cause mixing at the base of the mixed layer.\n\nThe driving force of these circulations is an interaction of the mean flow with wave averaged flows of the surface waves.\nStokes drift velocity of the waves stretches and tilts the vorticity of the flow near the surface.\nThe production of vorticity in the upper ocean is balanced by downward (often turbulent) diffusion formula_1.\nFor a flow driven by a wind formula_2 characterized by friction velocity formula_3 the ratio of vorticity diffusion and production defines the Langmuir number\n\nwhere the first definition is for a monochromatic wave field of amplitude formula_5, frequency formula_6, and wavenumber formula_7 and the second uses a generic inverse length scale formula_8, and Stokes velocity scale formula_9.\nThis is exemplified by the Craik–Leibovich equations\nwhich are an approximation of the Lagrangian mean.\nIn the Boussinesq approximation the governing equations can be written\nwhere \nformula_13 is the fluid velocity, \nformula_14 is planetary rotation, \nformula_15 is the Stokes drift velocity of the surface wave field, \nformula_16 is the pressure, \nformula_17 is the acceleration due to gravity, \nformula_18 is the density, \nformula_19 is the reference density, \nformula_20 is the viscosity,\nand \nformula_21 is the diffusivity.\n\nIn the open ocean conditions where there may not be a dominant length scale controlling the scale of the Langmuir cells the concept of Langmuir Turbulence is advanced.\nThe circulation has been observed to be between 0°–20° to the right of the wind in the northern hemisphere\n\nand the helix forming bands of divergence and convergence at the surface.\nAt the convergence zones, there are commonly concentrations of floating seaweed, foam and debris along these bands.\nAlong these divergent zones, the ocean surface is typically clear of debris since diverging currents force material out of this zone and into adjacent converging zones.\nAt the surface the circulation will set a current from the divergence zone to the convergence zone and the spacing between these zones are of the order of .\nBelow convergence zones narrow jets of downward flow form and the magnitude of the current will be comparable to the horizontal flow.\nThe downward propagation will typically be in the order of meters or tenths of meters and will not penetrate the pycnocline.\nThe upwelling is less intense and takes place over a wider band under the divergence zone.\nIn wind speeds ranging from the maximum vertical velocity ranged from with a ratio of down-welling to wind velocities ranging from −0.0025 to −0.0085.\n"}
{"id": "32173564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32173564", "title": "Lean product development", "text": "Lean product development\n\nLean product development (LPD) is a lean approach to counter the challenges of product development, notably:\n\n\nToyota started its journey with lean product development at Toyota Loom Works (see History of Toyota). Their early approach is notably different from the lean manufacturing that became famous through the book \"The Machine that changed the world\".\n\nWhen Toyota started manufacturing cars, there was a difference in manufacturing conditions between Japan and the USA. Toyota had few educated engineers and little prior experience. Car companies in US employed a well-educated work force in the cities and benefited from the research and student skill-sets of established engineering schools. To tackle this shortfall in knowledge and experience, Toyota conducted an incremental approach to development that built on their existing knowledge and became the basis of the lean systems Toyota uses today.\n\nAllen Ward studied Toyota’s lean product development system and found parallels with the US airplane industry. For instance, the Wright brothers’ method of constructing their airplanes became one of the legacies they passed on to the aviation industry. This approach enabled the USA to create one of World War II's most successful fighter planes from scratch in the short span of six months. After the war, Toyota incorporated many of the airline industry's findings into its own product development methodology.\n\nWhile some basic principles and guidelines are applicable across lean product development and lean production (such as waste reduction), many applications of lean process for development have focused more on the production approach.\n\nThe purpose of production is to manufacture products reliably within margins of control. The flow of value is physically evident, and the link between cause and effect is easy to see. For example, feedback on adjusting the speed of production is immediately realized in an increase or decrease in rejected items. Any decisions made must be based on best practice.\n\nOn the other hand, the purpose of product development is to design new products that improve the lives of customers. This is a complex space where the flow of value can only be discerned at an abstract level and where cause and effect might be separated by time and space. For example, feedback on the decision to design a certain feature will not be received until the product has been built and is in the hands of the customer. This means that decisions are made on short-cycle experimentation, prototyping, set-based design, and emergent practice. A premium is placed on creating reusable knowledge and reducing risk at handover points.\n\nAn essential point about these differences is summarized in the advice Jim Womack gives Harley Davidson: \"Don't try to bring lean manufacturing upstream to product development. The application of Lean in product development and manufacturing are different. Some aspects may look similar, but they are not! Be leery of an expert with experience in lean manufacturing that claims to know product development\" \n\nThe most common high level concepts associated with lean product development are:\n\nLean product development has been claimed to produce the following results:\n\nCompanies such as Toyota can attribute their success to lean product development. In 2000, Toyota launched 14 new products, a larger product line than GM's entire product offering. At that point, Toyota had just 70,000 employees while GM had more than five times as many.\n\nResearchers divide product development projects accordingly to their need drivers:\n\nFor example, the mobile phone was a \"Wanted\" product in the 1990s because it was on the leading edge of technology. Today it is regarded as a \"Needed\" product. It is common in the market. There is enough knowledge in the public domain so that even small companies can make a good mobile phone.\n\nProduct development methods can be classified according to whether they are focused on handling stable or non-stable conditions. Lean product development is a dynamic method of product development that handles unstable conditions.\n\nThe influence of need drivers and stability (or lack of stability) on product development are illustrated in the table below.\n\nExchange ref 12 with:\nOttosson, S. (2016): Developing Sustainable Product Innovations, page 112\n\n"}
{"id": "7586125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7586125", "title": "List of Canadian plants by family I-K", "text": "List of Canadian plants by family I-K\n\nMain page: List of Canadian plants by family\n\nFamilies:\nA | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I J K | L | M | N | O | P Q | R | S | T | U V W | X Y Z\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8279262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8279262", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on Ipomoea", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on Ipomoea\n\nIpomoea morning glories are used as food plants by the larvae of a number of Lepidoptera species, including:\n\nSpecies which feed exclusively on \"Ipomoea\"\n\nBedelliidae\nBucculatricidae\nNoctuidae\n\nSpecies which feed on \"Ipomoea\" and other plants\n\nArctiidae\nBedelliidae\nBucculatricidae\nCrambidae\nGeometridae\nHepialidae\nNymphalidae\nNoctuidae\n\n"}
{"id": "37540630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37540630", "title": "List of Rhododendron species", "text": "List of Rhododendron species\n\nThis List of \"Rhododendron\" species includes species of the genus \"Rhododendron\", which is in the plant family Ericaceae. Depending on the source, there are anywhere from 800 to over 1,100 wild species. The vast majority of \"Rhododendron\" species are native to the eastern Himalaya and southeast Tibet, along with the islands of Java, Sumatra, Borneo, New Guinea, and the Philippines. The rest are broadly spread throughout the northern hemisphere in relatively small isolated populations, including Japan, northwestern North America, the Appalachian, and the Caucasus Mountains.\n\n\"Rhododendron\" has eight traditionally accepted subgenera based on morphology, still the consensus taxonomy used by most authorities: \"Azaleastrum\"; \"Candidastrum\"; \"Hymenanthes\"; \"Mumeazalea\"; \"Pentanthera\"; \"Rhododendron\"; \"Therorhodion\"; \"Tsutsusi\". \"Hymenanthes\", with approximately 225 species, and subgenus \"Rhododendron\", with approx. 400 species, comprise what gardeners typically describe as \"Rhododendrons.\" Two subgenera are generally known to gardeners as \"Azaleas\", and include many fewer true species: \"Pentanthera\", which comprises the deciduous azaleas, and \"Tsutsusi\", which includes evergreen azaleas.\n\nModern cladistic analysis, based on nuclear genetics, proposes changes in the classification of species within subgenera. These proposals are based on at least three different studies, with no changes proposed within subgenus \"Rhododendron\" and its sections. The major proposed changes are: to make section \"Choniastrum\" (originally in subgenus \"Azaleastrum\") a separate \"Choniastrum\" subgenus; to combine sections \"Ponticum\", \"Pentanthera\", and the species \"Rhododendron canadense\" in subgenus \"Hymenanthes\"; subgenus \"Azaleastrum\" to include the former subgenera \"Tsutsusi\", \"Mumeazalea\", \"Candidastrum\", and \"Menziesa\", along with former sections \"Viscidula\", \"Azaleastrum\", \"Sciadorhodion\", and the species \"Rhododendron vaseyi\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19888060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19888060", "title": "List of Salix species", "text": "List of Salix species\n\nThis is an incomplete list of Salix species, the willows. \n\nThe genus contains about 350 species.\n\n"}
{"id": "37631358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37631358", "title": "List of Tulostoma species", "text": "List of Tulostoma species\n\n\"Tulostoma\" is a genus of over 100 species of fungi in the family Agaricaceae. Commonly known as stalked puffballs, the cosmopolitan genus consists of species which produce small fruit bodies, characterized by stalks inserted in a socket at the base of the spherical spore-sac opened by a small and apical mouth. The spore-sac contains gleba, a mixture of spores and associated cells; at maturity, the spores are released through one or more apical pores. \"Tulostoma\" species prefer xeric microhabitats, savannahs and deserts, and are saprobic—obtaining nutrients by decomposing roots, buried wood and other organic material of plant origin.\n\nThe following list of 102 species is compiled from Jorge Eduardo Wright's 1987 world monograph on the \"Tulostomatales\", as well as reports of new taxa described in the literature published since then. Wright included 139 species in his monograph, including 47 \"doubtful or critical\" species. New species have since been reported from Spain (1992), Mexico (1995), Venezuela (2000), Tunisia (2002), China (2005), and Argentina.\n\nCzech mycologist Zdeněk Pouzar elaborated an infrageneric (below the level of genus) system of classification for \"Tulostoma\" species in his 1958 monograph of European taxa. Wright expanded and revised Pouzar's classification system to include all known species:\n"}
{"id": "20502785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20502785", "title": "List of rivers of the Dominican Republic", "text": "List of rivers of the Dominican Republic\n\nThis is a list of rivers in the Dominican Republic, arranged in clockwise order around the island starting in the northwest corner, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1089150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1089150", "title": "Lu Ban", "text": "Lu Ban\n\nLu Ban (–444BC) was a Chinese carpenter, engineer and inventor during the Zhou Dynasty. He is revered as the Chinese god (patron) of builders and contractors.\n\nLu Ban was born in the state of Lu, possibly at Dunhuang, to family of carpenters or artisans during the Spring and Autumn period of the Zhou dynasty. His original name was He was also referred to as or Pan. He was supposed to have been an indifferent pupil until his love of learning was kindled by the scholar Zi Xia. He later learned woodworking from Bao Laodong. The great demand for his work supposedly compelled him to invent or improve a number of carpenter's tools—the saw, the square, the planer, the drill, the shovel, and an ink marking tool—to complete his many projects more quickly. His wife was also credited with inventing the umbrella in order to permit him to work in inclement weather.\n\nAccording to tradition, he was responsible for several inventions:\n\n\nOther inventions were also attributed to him, such as a lifting implement to assist with burial, a wooden horse carriage and coachman, a pedal-powered cycle, and other woodworking mentioned in various texts, which thereafter led Lu Ban to be acknowledged as a master craftsman:\n\n\nLu Ban is revered as the god of carpentry and masonry in Chinese folk religion. His personality is assumed by the master carpenter involved in the construction of houses among the Dong. He is sometimes counted among the Five Kings of the Water Immortals, Taoist water gods invoked by sailors for protection while carrying out journeys.\n\nHe is referenced in a number of Chinese idioms. The Chinese equivalent of \"teaching one's grandmother to suck eggs\" is to \"brandish one's axe at Lu Ban's door\". His cultural companion is the stone worker Wang Er, who lived around the same time.\n\nThe modern artist Shi Lu has claimed that Lu Ban was an alias of his contemporary Confucius, but this seems dubious.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52444740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52444740", "title": "MeyGen", "text": "MeyGen\n\nMeyGen (full name MeyGen tidal energy project) is the worlds largest tidal energy plant, which is currently in construction. The project uses four 1.5 MW turbines with 16m rotor diameter turbines submerged on the seabed. The project is owned and run by Tidal Power Scotland Limited and Scottish Enterprise.\n\nThe high speed of currents in the area, reaching up to 5 metres per second (11 mph), made the chosen site in the Pentland Firth well suited to this type of energy generation.\n\nIn October 2010 the newly named \"MeyGen\" tidal project from the nearby Castle of Mey and \"Gen\" for generation was created by a consortium of Atlantis Resources Limited, Morgan Stanley and received operational lease from the Crown Estate to a 400 MW project for 25 years. Phase 1a began operations in April 2018. Phase 1b is undergoing construction and commissioning with a total of 8 1.5 MW turbines planned. Phase 1c, which will be 49 turbines, will begin construction and deployment in 2018 with the rest of the project aiming to be fully deployed by 2021.\n\nIn December 2016 it was announced that the first turbine had begun full power operations, and all four turbines were installed by February 2017. Atlantis plans for 400 MW.\n"}
{"id": "186601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186601", "title": "Minakata Kumagusu", "text": "Minakata Kumagusu\n\nMinakata was born in Wakayama, Wakayama Prefecture, Japan. In 1883, he moved to Tokyo, where he entered the preparatory school \"Kyōryū Gakkō\". The headmaster of Kyōritsu, Takahashi Korekiyo, encouraged Minakata in his botanical studies, and stimulated his interest in the English language. The following year, Minakata passed the entrance exam to Tokyo University Preparatory School (Tokyo Daigaku Yobimon), counting among his classmates the novelist Natsume Sōseki.\n\nAt the end of 1886, Minakata set off to study in the United States. He arrived in San Francisco in January of the next year, and he studied there for about six months. He next went to Michigan State Agricultural College, where he was accepted, becoming the first Japanese to pass the entrance exam there. These were just the first steps, however, in Minakata's unusually adventurous studies in various parts of the world, which would eventually include Cuba, Haiti, what is now Panama, Venezuela, and England, before returning to Japan.\n\nIn addition to his studies in slime moulds, Minakata was intensely interested in folklore, religion and natural history. He wrote several papers, including 51 monographs in \"Nature\". He is famous for discovering many varieties of mycetozoa.\n\nMinakata was also an epileptic, suffering from grand mal seizures. He was able to predict when he was about to have a seizure (as is common in epilepsy) due to a sense of déjà vu.\n\nMinakata Kumagusu came back to Japan in 1900 after 14 years of unique study experience abroad mainly in the U.S. and England. He settled in Wakayama Prefecture, his birthplace, until his death in 1941. He lived in Tanabe City from 1904 to 1941. Minakata devoted his entire life to studies of natural history and folklore, and contributed a number of articles to the British science magazine \"Nature\" and the British folklore magazine \"Notes and Queries\". He was also actively involved in anti-shrine-consolidation protests and the nature conservation movement in Japan. He was worshipped as \"a great scholar with no degree\" and loved by the locals who called him Minakata Sensei (the teacher) or Minakata-san (Mr. Minakata), while branded by some as an oddball. More than 60 years after his death, Minakata’s achievements and life history has been made clear by a number of books and papers including \"The Complete Works of Minakata Kumagusu\" and \"The Diary of Minakata Kumagusu\", and the research is still ongoing.\n\nMinakata Kumagusu was born in the castle city of Wakayama on April 15, 1867, the second son to a hardware dealer Yahei Minakata, 39, and wife Sumi, 30, and was raised with three brothers and two sisters. Since childhood, he had had extraordinary interests in the natural world and demonstrated a marvelous memory. As early as at the age of seven he transcribed an encyclopedia.\n\nTo develop his talent, Yahei, a self-made man, sent Minakata to the newly opened Wakayama Middle School (now Toin High), which was unconventional for a merchant family those days. Minakata’s thirst for knowledge was growing bigger as he at home recited the Chinese classics and transcribed the books that he had learned by heart at a collector’s place. That he transcribed \"Wakan Sansai Zue\", an encyclopedia of 105 volumes, and \"Honzo Komoku\", illustrated books of flora, in over five years is a famous episode from this period. At school, however, he remained a low achiever. He would finish lunch early and observe a frog or a crab in the empty lunch box.\n\nAfter finishing middle school, he went to Tokyo in March 1883. The following year he entered the Preparatory School of Tokyo University. Among his colleagues were Masaoka Shiki, Natsume Sōseki, and Bimyo Yamada, who later became eminent figures of Japanese literature. Again Minakata was not interested in school and spent more time outside the university transcribing books in libraries, visiting zoos and botanic gardens, and collecting artifacts, animals, plants and minerals. At the news that Miles J. Berkeley, a world-famous British cryptogamist, and American botanist Moses A. Curtis had collected 6,000 species of fungi including slime molds, Minakata decided to produce an illustrated book that would cover more. In February 1886, following a failure at the end-of-year exam, he came home and told father that he would go to America. Initially opposed, Yahei finally gave in to his son's enthusiasm and let him go.\n\nMinakata boarded the \"City of Beijing\" in Yokohama in December 1886. The next month the ship arrived in San Francisco, and he soon started to study at Pacific Business College just to experience American life (business was not his favorite subject).\n\nIn August 1887, he moved to Lansing, Michigan, and enrolled at the Michigan State School of Agriculture. One night in November 1888, however, he was in trouble for a drinking binge with a couple of Japanese and American friends in the dorm. He took the responsibility alone to save others from expulsion and early next morning left for Ann Arbor.\n\nMinakata met bright Japanese students in Ann Arbor, home of the state university. While keeping company with them, he stayed away from university and studied on his own by reading books and collecting plants in the mountains, particularly cryptogams including fungi and lichens. In October 1889, he read a biography of Conrad Gessner, a Swiss naturalist and a leading figure of modern biology, and swore he would become Japan's Gessner, which was when his quest for the wonders of cryptogams began.\n\nWhen he heard from William W. Calkins, a retired American colonel and a collector of lichens, that in Florida there were still many undiscovered plants, Minakata was ready to go. With two microscopes, books, a pistol, insect catchers as well as a medicine box and a plant press that he had just bought in Ann Arbor, Minakata went to Jacksonville in April 1891. He collected plants and animals while staying with Jiang, a supportive Chinese vegetable storekeeper. After three months enthusiastically collecting plants and animals, he moved to Key West, Florida, then to Havana, Cuba in mid-September.\n\nAfter a month in Havana, a Japanese circus rider suddenly visited him. That encounter brought him to a new adventure of traveling in Port-au-Prince, Caracas, Valencia, and Jamaica with the circus working as a mahout's hand. This enabled him to collect precious fungi and lichens in the West Indies. In January 1892 he returned to Jacksonville and worked on the plants he had collected in Florida and Cuba at Jiang's. When Jiang wound up the business in August, Minakata moved to New York. In September he put an end to six years in America and got aboard the \"City of New York\" bound for the UK.\n\nAfter crossing the Atlantic Ocean, the ship arrived at Liverpool. In London, Minakata visited Yoshikusu Nakai, branch manager of the Yokohama Shokin Bank, an old friend of the Minakata family from Wakayama. The man handed him a letter from Tsunegusu, one of his younger brothers, about their beloved father's death. Minakata was totally devastated.\n\nHe lived in downtown London where rents were cheap. While working on herbaria and exchanging specimens and letters with William W. Calkins and Allen, he visited the British Museum, the South Kensington Museum and other galleries. He then was introduced to Japanese Asian antique dealer Kataoka Prince. In August 1893, Minakata read in \"Nature\" magazine, his favorite since his time in U.S., a thesis titled \"Five articles about the composition of constellations.\" Its questions inspired him to write a reply.\n\nKataoka Prince, who had noticed the erudition of the shabby-looking man, introduced him to Sir Augustus Wollaston Franks, of the British Museum. Thereafter, Minakata visited the museum often to ask advice from Franks. Using a fragmented dictionary borrowed from his landlady, he completed an article titled \"The Constellations in the Far East\" in 30 days. The article was published in \"Nature\", and he suddenly became known among the intelligentsia. He contributed regularly to the magazine after that and also started writing for \"Notes and Queries\". He continued to contribute a number of articles and letters to the magazines after returning to Japan and won a reputation worldwide as an authority on Oriental studies.\n\nHis rising reputation opened the door to friendships with notable figures including Frederick. V. Dickins, registrar of the University of London, as well as people from the British Museum including Sir Robert K. Douglas, director of the Oriental Printed Books section and Charles H. Read, the successor to Franks. He visited the British Museum almost every day. While immersing himself in rare books of all ages from East and West, particularly in the fields of archeology, anthropology, folklore and religion, he copied them into notebooks. A collection of 52 thick notebooks from this period called \"London Extracts\" is kept in the Minakata residence and the Minakata Kumagusu Museum. The pages are densely covered with tiny letters he put in English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Greek and Latin.\n\nDouglas, who was impressed with his extensive knowledge, offered Minakata a job at the British Museum, but he declined the offer in light of freedom. Instead, he helped make a catalog of the books and manuscripts of the library and conducted historical research on the Buddhist statues of the museum using his expertise accumulated through reading and transcribing of a large number of books including classics and encyclopedia since childhood.\n\nOne of the highlights in London was getting to know Sun Yat-sen, father of the Chinese Revolution. Minakata put it in his diary how they hit it off straight away on first acquaintance at the Douglas’s office in the British Museum in March 1897 and quickly developed a friendship through visiting each other and talking till late almost every day. The descriptions, though very brief, reveal the closeness between two friends. Their company lasted only four months until Sun had to leave London for Asia in early July.\n\nIn October 1893 he met Toki Horyu, later the chief abbot of Kōyasan temple complex, a relationship that deserves special mention. Minakata and Toki, much senior to him, opened up to each other and exchanged frank opinions about religion. They wrote to each other until later years.\n\nMany famous figures from Japan visited Minakata in London. They all were astonished at his erudition and shocked at his total lack of interest in daily life. Although highly regarded by some scholars, Minakata sometimes experienced discrimination because of his ethnicity, the cause for his frequent reckless behaviors leading up to the departure from the British Museum in December 1898. Frequent delay of money expected from the family in Japan forced him to take a job translating the titles for the calligraphy collection at the South Kensington Museum and sell ukiyoe with his friends. High hopes of becoming an assistant professor at the soon-to-be opened Japanology program in Cambridge or Oxford were gone when the plan was turned down. Forced into straitened circumstances, he made a decision in despair to leave the UK, where he had spent eight years. In September 1900, Minakata got on board the \"Awa Maru\" at the Thames and went home.\n\nIn October 1900, the \"Awa Maru\" arrived at Kobe after a 45-day voyage. Tsunegusu was shocked to see his elder brother appear in a shabby suit made of flimsy fabric like mosquito netting. He also was astounded Minakata had come back with tons of books and specimens but no degree. Minakata found temporary shelter at his brother's in Wakayama.\n\nAfter a while, Minakata heard that Sun Yat-sen was in the Yokohama settlement as a political refugee and wrote him. In February 1901 Sun came to Wakayama. Although the first reunion in four years was disturbed by a police detail, Sun was happy to take risks to see his old friend. As a gift, Sun left his favorite Panama hat. He later sent Minakata a reference letter addressed to Inukai Tsuyoshi, his guardian in Japan and later the prime minister. The letter, never used, is kept in the Minakata residence and the hat is on display in the Minakata Kumagusu Museum. Their friendship survived for a while; Sun sent specimens of lichen from Hawaii and Minakata wrote back, but ultimately they drifted apart and never met again. After Sun's death, Minakata expressed his sorrow in the reminiscence and wrote: \"Friendship changes like seasons.\"\n\nIn October 1901 Minakata left Wakayama by boat for Katsu’ura, where he lived at the branch of Minakata Sake Distillery, run by brother Tsunegusu, until October 1904. In Nachi he spent all his time collecting fungi and algae around the region. One day, while collecting lichen at the Ichino-taki Falls, he met a young man, Shiro Koaze, a shipping company worker. Koaze, as a disciple, was going to help Minakata with research on slime molds all his life. Koaze sent specimens from every port he called as well as offered financial support. Koaze, with his close friend Shigeru Uematsu, backed Minakata materially and spiritually.\n\nMinakata was very active in Nachi. He collected insects and plants, made microscope slides and colored illustrated manuals, read hundreds of books, completed a draft for the English translation of \"Hojoki: The Ten Square Feet Hut\" co-authored with Frederick Victor Dickins, and proofread \"Primal Text of Japan\" also by Dickins. He resumed writing for \"Nature\" and \"Notes and Queries\". Embraced by the wildlife in the Kumano Mountains, Minakata, based on his extensive knowledge of the world, studied interaction between the spiritual with the material world, and participated in heated debates on nature and life, including religious one with Horyu Toki. He also completed \"The Origin of the Swallow-Stone Myth (Ensekiko)\", a study he had planned at the end of the time in UK, that is considered the pinnacle of his research presented in English.\n\nAfter three years and 21 months research on plants in the Kumano region, Kumagusu left Katsu'ura in October 1904 and walked to Tanabe, collecting specimens on his way. On arrival he immediately fell in love with Tanabe he thought was “a quiet place with nice people, cheap commodities and beautiful weather and the scenery.” He decided to settle, rented a house and started an easy life. He often invited friends and had parties at nearby luxury restaurants and teahouses; hired geishas, drank, sang Dodoitsu and Otsue, his favorite party pieces, and played strange performances.\n\nIn the fall of 1905 Minakata donated 46 specimens of slime molds to the British Museum. Arthur Lister, president of the British Mycological Society, had them introduced in the \"Journal of Botany\", vol. 49, as \"The Second Report of Japanese Fungi,\" following the first report on the specimens sent by Prof. Miyoshi of Tokyo Imperial University. This article, which led Minakata to a new world of friendship with Lister and his daughter Gulielma, was a milestone in his career toward a world-class slime mold researcher.\n\nIn July 1906 at 40 Minakata married Matsue, 28, the fourth daughter of Munezo Tamura, chief priest of the Tokei Shrine. Tamura, a former samurai of the Kishu-Tokugawa clan, was also a Sinologist whose knowledge of Chinese wisdom had influenced Matsue’s upbringing. Her late marriage (for a woman in those days) was due to her devotion to father and the destitute family she had supported by teaching sewing and flower arrangement.\n\nIn July 1907 the couple had their first child, Kumaya. At first sight of his baby boy Minakata wrote: “Stayed awake till dawn watching my baby” and expressed the joy of becoming father. After the birth of Kumaya the marriage was rocky. After Matsue turned to her parents a few times, he gradually reduced alcohol. He kept in his diary every detail of Kumaya, how he moved and talked, which shows his deep love and expectations for his son. Minakata usually woke at 11 am and worked at home from sometime in the afternoon till 5 o’clock next morning sorting specimens, drawing pictures, conducting research, reading and writing. While weaving, Matsue, together with a housemaid, was very nervous about the care of weepy Kumaya. Their daughter Fumie was born in October 1911.\n\nMinakata resumed copying books around in 1909. The extract of Daizokyo, scriptures owned by the Hōrin-ji Temple, which took full three years, was a particularly demanding job. “To read is to copy. You’ll forget when you just read it, but you’ll never forget when you copy it.” He propagated this belief and put it into practice by himself. The \"Tanabe Extracts\" from this period consist of 61 volumes. On top of the contributions he had made to British journals and magazines since coming home, Minakata started writing for journals and newspapers in Japan. Using a lot of citations was his signature style of research papers, but first-hand folklore evidence and antiquities were also included. He used his extraordinary memory and archives accumulated through interviews.\n\nIn 1906 the government imposed shrine consolidation regulations under which all shrines in a village or a town should be merged. The Wakayama prefectural government pushed hard for the enforcement of the regulations. In Japan there used to be a shrine in each community, however small, which was the centripetal force to unite the people, the provider of recreations and the object of worship, and with very few exceptions, they all stood in deep forests.\n\nMinakata was worried that the consolidations would not only ruin historical buildings and antiquities but, by cutting trees, also damage the scenery and the natural life around them. He contributed an opinion to every edition of a local paper, \"Muro Shinpo\". He also sent objection letters to major papers in Tokyo and Osaka and appealed to leading researchers for support, including Jinzo Matsumura, a notable botanist and professor of Tokyo University, to whom Minakata wrote long letters criticizing the deeds done by the central and prefectural governments. Yanagita Kunio, then a counselor of the Cabinet Legislation Bureau and later father of Japanese folklore, supported the campaign by disseminating copies of two letters as Minakata Nisho to those who concerned. He was also supported locally by a young Morihei Ueshiba.\n\nIn August 1910 Minakata was arrested for trespassing when he threw a bag of specimens into a meeting held in Tanabe Junior High School (now Tanabe High). Although drunk, he did it out of rage when not allowed to talk with one of the attendees, a government officer who was in charge of the promotion of the regulations. During 18 days in jail pending trial he read books and hunted slime molds in the building. When released, he refused to leave saying: “This place is quiet with no visitors and cool. I want to stay longer.”\n\nAs his enthusiasm moved public opinion, the irrational regulations gradually lost momentum. In 1920, 10 years from his arrest, the regulations were confirmed useless by the House of Peers and abolished. Ultimately, Minakata’s efforts saved a couple of forests, but a number of shrines and forests had become extinct during the decade. He then approached various social movements and public bodies in charge of the national heritage list in order to promote protection of the precious environment including the Kashima Island in Tanabe Bay. His battle continued until his last years, which is why he is called a pioneer in ecology today. In February 1911, when \"The Mountain God Loves Stonefish\" was published in the \"Journal of the Anthropological Society of Tokyo\", Minakata received a letter from Yanagita. This was when their correspondence between two (which was going to make a significant contribution to the study of Japanese folklore) began.\n\nIn July 1914 Kumagusu's reputation was spread nationwide, following a newspaper report on the announcement by Walter T. Swingle, head of the Office of Crop Physiology and Breeding investigation of US Department of Agriculture, that they would invite Minakata to the US. Dr. Swingle came to Tanabe in May 1915 to announce the appointment in person. Although having intended to accept the offer, he declined it because of a family matter.\n\nIn April 1916, Minakata obtained a property, now the Minakata residence, under the ownership of Tsunegusu. The large garden became an open-air laboratory to observe plants, frogs, and turtles. The study was a place for writing and microscopic research on plants. The godown was organized into the stacks containing a number of books and materials.\n\nHe published numerous research papers about folklore based on previous research papers of natural science already published and articles about shrine consolidation. The more scholars and celebrities he received and the busier he became with his writing, the more often he had to stay home and conduct his botanical research in the backyard. This change enabled him to discover the famous Minakatella longifila Lister — a new genus of slime mold named by Gulielma Lister, president of the British Mycological Society — from a persimmon tree in his garden in 1917.\n\nIt was around this time that the governor of Wakayama Prefecture and his friends finished the planning of the Minakata Botanical Institute. The prospectus was drafted by Tanaka Chōzaburō and promoted by 30 big names including those from the political and literary worlds, including Hara Takashi, Ōkuma Shigenobu, Yorimichi Tokugawa, and Rohan Koda.\n\nMinakata came to Tokyo for the first time in 36 years and spent five months raising money. Day after day he visited notable figures in politics and academia including Prime Minister Takahashi Korekiyo asking for support. He finally collected a considerable sum, but it was less than the prospect amount. He continued his fundraising campaign at home.\n\nThe famous ‘Resume’ was written then responding to a request from Yoshio Yabuki, deputy branch manager of Nippon Yusen in Osaka, whom he had asked for donation. The resume, written on 7.7m long paper using fine strokes, is an autograph of extreme importance to understand the real Minakata and perhaps the longest resume in Japan and the first resume ever known in light of the volume and quality of information it contains.\n\nIn March 1925, Kumaya became ill and went into a hospital in Wakayama City. After going home to recuperate, Minakata shut the gate against all visitors. This lasted for three years until Kumaya was moved to a hospital in Kyoto in May 1928. Fair success of the fundraising in Tokyo was offset in a way by an unfulfilled promise of Tsunegusu, one of the major promoters of the project. He didn’t provide 20,000 yen, his part of donation, which caused a rift between the two brothers. Minakata also had trouble making a living because of expensive medical bills. To lessen the financial burden, Minakata published three books in 1926. The books, compilations of theses previously published in various journals, gave the reader an insight into his arguments consistent throughout the years and revealed again his erudition, which aroused the admiration of the public.\n\nEmperor Hirohito, also a biologist, had shown a strong interest in slime molds since he was the Prince Regent. As the Prince, he had read \"A Monograph of the Slime Molds\" by Gulielma Lister and told Dr. Hirotaro Hattori of the National Biological Research Institute of his wish to see the specimens. Having learned this interest, Shiro Koaze approached Minakata and his friends from Tokyo University. In November 1926 the team prepared and presented Prince Hirohito with a collection of 90 specimens of 37 genera of Japanese slime molds. It bore the signatures of Koaze as the presenter and Minakata as the selector.\n\nIn March 1929, Dr. Hattori secretly visited and requested Minakata to give a lecturer on slime molds to Hirohito, then Emperor, in his future royal visit to the Wakayama region. Minakata telegraphed his acceptance. With no precedent for a commoner giving an imperial lecture, he soon became the center of the public attention and extremely busy preparing specimens. On June 1, 1929, it had been raining since morning. Minakata headed for Kashima Island in a frock coat he had bought in America and kept for years. After taking the Emperor for a walk in the woods on the island, Minakata, while showing specimens, gave a 25-minute lecture, on board the royal ship Nagato, on slime molds and marine life to His Majesty. He also presented the Emperor with gifts including 110 specimens of slime molds kept in empty taffy boxes.\n\nA chamberlain recalled: \"Rumors of his eccentricity had made me doubt his capability, but my worry turned out to be utterly groundless when I met this well-mannered and polite man. He was a gentleman who had experience of living abroad as well as a traditional Japanese who showed a respect for the Imperial Family.\" It was the most glorious day in Minakata's life. In the afternoon, he took pictures of him and Matsue in their finest attire at a studio and shared the moment with his relatives and close friends by giving sweets he had received from the Imperial Household. Next year, in commemoration of the Emperor’s visit to Kashima, a monument was erected on the edge of a dense wood near the point where His Majesty had landed. Inscribed on the monument is a poem Minakata wrote hoping that the island would be protected forever by the benevolence and the power of the Emperor. In May 1962, more than 30 years later, Their Majesties The Emperor and Empress visited southern Wakayama again. Inspired by a view of Kashima from a hotel room on the Shirahama Beach the Emperor composed a \"waka\" poem:\n\nThe poem is inscribed on the monument erected in front of the Minakata Kumagusu Museum overlooking the Kashima island.\n\nThe Sino-Japanese War broke out in 1937, as the war escalated, the people’s life was impoverished. Minakata was not an exception. The loss of his old friends gave him an additional blow. He gradually ruined his health and stayed in bed. Although collapsing many times, he continued to work towards the completion of \"Nihon\" (the illustrated manual of Japanese fungi; drawing pictures), writing notes and giving advice to his colleagues.\n\nIn December 1941, soon after the Pacific War had erupted, Minakata was in a critical condition. On the 29 December he murmured, “I can see purple flowers blooming on the ceiling” and closed 75 years of a life filled with ups and downs. He was buried at the Kouzanji Temple in Tanabe City overlooking Kashima island.\n\nYoung Minakata leaped out into the wider world when Japan was going through a metamorphosis from a feudal state into a westernized modern country. He went to America then to UK searching for a place where anybody, regardless of class, could study freely. He found it in the British Museum, where he put his heart and soul into research while buried in hundreds of books, arts and crafts and antiquities from the East and the West.\n\nWith \"The Constellations in the Far East\" as a start, he contributed a total of 50 theses to \"Nature\" and hundreds of articles and essays to the folklore magazine \"Notes and Queries\". This large number of articles shows he won an important place in the British academia.\n\nHe was blessed with an extraordinary memory and manipulated more than 10 languages. In addition, plenty of experience of copying books enabled him to master how to scrutinize empirical documents and the methods of comparative cultural studies, which was the basis of his unbounded capacity in writing. \"Junishiko (A Study of Twelve Animals of Chinese Zodiac)\", one of his most important works, is an example.\n\nAfter coming back to Japan he wrote a number of articles in quick succession for Japanese journals and magazines. Discussions of historical evidence from the East and the West with Kunio Yanagita, as shown in their abundant correspondence, had a great influence to the birth and the development of Japanese folklore studies.\n\n\"The Illustrated Book of Bionomics of Japanese Fungi\", one of his greatest achievements and the embodiment of his admiration mixed with rivalry to Curtis and Berkeley, made a huge contribution to the development of the study of fungi and thus deserves international recognition. It covers 4,500 species with 15,000 pictures. Although the entries were 500 less than planned, the book also introduced his extensive research on fungi, slime molds and algae including Minakatella longifila Lister, enigmatic behavior of slime molds and parasitic algae on fish.\n\nHis advocacy of anti-shrine-consolidation protests had its roots in his deepest anger towards the loss of inhabitants’ spiritual hubs and the extinction of the landscape with which people felt an affinity. The ecological relation between nature and human beings, which Minakata looked at through the studies of biology, folklore, ethnology and religion, is something to keep in mind.\n\nShinzo Koizumi, late chancellor of Keio University and an admirer of Minakata, paid his tribute: \"We should write it in the academic history in Japan that a maverick scholar acquired such extensive knowledge and accomplished such great achievements.\"\n\nThe Minakata Kumagusu Museum in Shirahama introduces the life and achievements of Minakata through the exhibitions of his memorabilia, related materials, and books.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46817", "title": "Mount Vesuvius", "text": "Mount Vesuvius\n\nMount Vesuvius (; ; ; ; also ' or ' in some Roman sources) is a somma-stratovolcano located on the Gulf of Naples in Campania, Italy, about east of Naples and a short distance from the shore. It is one of several volcanoes which form the Campanian volcanic arc. Vesuvius consists of a large cone partially encircled by the steep rim of a summit caldera caused by the collapse of an earlier and originally much higher structure.\n\nMount Vesuvius is best known for its eruption in AD 79 that led to the burying and destruction of the Roman cities of Pompeii, Herculaneum, Oplontis and Stabiae, as well as several other settlements. The eruption ejected a cloud of stones, ashes and volcanic gases to a height of , spewing molten rock and pulverized pumice at the rate of per second, ultimately releasing a hundred thousand times the thermal energy released by the Hiroshima-Nagasaki bombings. More than 1,000 people died in the eruption, but exact numbers are unknown. The only surviving eyewitness account of the event consists of two letters by Pliny the Younger to the historian Tacitus.\n\nVesuvius has erupted many times since and is the only volcano on the European mainland to have erupted within the last hundred years. Today, it is regarded as one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world because of the population of 3,000,000 people living nearby, making it the most densely populated volcanic region in the world, as well as its tendency towards violent, explosive eruptions of the Plinian type.\n\nVesuvius has a long historic and literary tradition. It was considered a divinity of the Genius type at the time of the eruption of AD 79: it appears under the inscribed name Vesuvius as a serpent in the decorative frescos of many \"\", or household shrines, surviving from Pompeii. An inscription from Capua to indicates that he was worshipped as a power of Jupiter; that is, \"Jupiter Vesuvius\".\n\nThe Romans regarded Mount Vesuvius to be devoted to Hercules. The historian Diodorus Siculus relates a tradition that Hercules, in the performance of his labors, passed through the country of nearby Cumae on his way to Sicily and found there a place called \"the Phlegraean Plain\" (\"Φλεγραῖον πεδίον\", \"plain of fire\"), \"from a hill which anciently vomited out fire ... now called Vesuvius.\" It was inhabited by bandits, \"the sons of the Earth,\" who were giants. With the assistance of the gods he pacified the region and went on. The facts behind the tradition, if any, remain unknown, as does whether was named after it. An epigram by the poet Martial in 88 AD suggests that both Venus, patroness of Pompeii, and Hercules were worshipped in the region devastated by the eruption of 79. \n\n' was a name of the volcano in frequent use by the authors of the late Roman Republic and the early Roman Empire. Its collateral forms were ', ', ' and '. Writers in ancient Greek used or . Many scholars since then have offered an etymology. As peoples of varying ethnicity and language occupied Campania in the Roman Iron Age, the etymology depends to a large degree on the presumption of what language was spoken there at the time. Naples was settled by Greeks, as the name ', \"New City\", testifies. The Oscans, a native Italic people, lived in the countryside. The Latins also competed for the occupation of Campania. Etruscan settlements were in the vicinity. Other peoples of unknown provenance are said to have been there at some time by various ancient authors.\n\nSome theories about its origin are:\n\nVesuvius is a distinctive \"humpbacked\" peak, consisting of a large cone (\"Gran Cono\") partially encircled by the steep rim of a summit caldera caused by the collapse of an earlier and originally much higher structure called Mount Somma. The Gran Cono was produced during the A.D. 79 eruption. For this reason, the volcano is also called Somma-Vesuvius or Somma-Vesuvio.\n\nThe caldera started forming during an eruption around 17,000 (or 18,300) years ago and was enlarged by later paroxysmal eruptions, ending in the one of AD 79. This structure has given its name to the term \"somma volcano\", which describes any volcano with a summit caldera surrounding a newer cone.\n\nThe height of the main cone has been constantly changed by eruptions but was in 2010. Monte Somma is high, separated from the main cone by the valley of Atrio di Cavallo, which is long. The slopes of the volcano are scarred by lava flows, while the rest are heavily vegetated, with scrub and forests at higher altitudes and vineyards lower down. Vesuvius is still regarded as an active volcano, although its current activity produces little more than sulfur-rich steam from vents at the bottom and walls of the crater. Vesuvius is a stratovolcano at the convergent boundary where the African Plate is being subducted beneath the Eurasian Plate. Layers of lava, ash, scoria and pumice make up the volcanic peak. Their mineralogy is variable, but generally silica-undersaturated and rich in potassium, with phonolite produced in the more explosive eruptions (e.g. the eruption in 1631 displaying a complete stratigraphic and petrographic description: phonolite was firstly erupted, followed by a tephritic phonolite and finally a phonolitic tephrite).\n\nVesuvius was formed as a result of the collision of two tectonic plates, the African and the Eurasian. The former was subducted beneath the latter, deeper into the earth. As the water-saturated sediments of the oceanic African plate were pushed to hotter depths inside the planet, the water boiled off and lowered the melting point of the upper mantle enough to partially melt the rocks. Because magma is less dense than the solid rock around it, it was pushed upward. Finding a weak spot at the Earth's surface, it broke through, thus forming the volcano.\n\nThe volcano is one of several which form the Campanian volcanic arc. Others include Campi Flegrei, a large caldera a few kilometers to the north west, Mount Epomeo, to the west on the island of Ischia, and several undersea volcanoes to the south. The arc forms the southern end of a larger chain of volcanoes produced by the subduction process described above, which extends northwest along the length of Italy as far as Monte Amiata in Southern Tuscany. Vesuvius is the only one to have erupted within recent history, although some of the others have erupted within the last few hundred years. Many are either extinct or have not erupted for tens of thousands of years.\n\nMount Vesuvius has erupted many times. The famous eruption in AD 79 was preceded by numerous others in prehistory, including at least three significantly larger ones, the best known being the Avellino eruption around 1800 BC which engulfed several Bronze Age settlements. Since AD 79, the volcano has also erupted repeatedly, in 172, 203, 222, possibly in 303, 379, 472, 512, 536, 685, 787, around 860, around 900, 968, 991, 999, 1006, 1037, 1049, around 1073, 1139, 1150, and there may have been eruptions in 1270, 1347, and 1500.\nThe volcano erupted again in 1631, six times in the 18th century (including 1779 and 1794), eight times in the 19th century (notably in 1872), and in 1906, 1929 and 1944. There have been no eruptions since 1944, and none of the eruptions after AD 79 were as large or destructive as the Pompeian one.\n\nThe eruptions vary greatly in severity but are characterized by explosive outbursts of the kind dubbed Plinian after Pliny the Younger, a Roman writer who published a detailed description of the 79 AD eruption, including his uncle's death. On occasion, eruptions from Vesuvius have been so large that the whole of southern Europe has been blanketed by ash; in 472 and 1631, Vesuvian ash fell on Constantinople (Istanbul), over away. A few times since 1944, landslides in the crater have raised clouds of ash dust, raising false alarms of an eruption.\n\nScientific knowledge of the geologic history of Vesuvius comes from core samples taken from a plus bore hole on the flanks of the volcano, extending into Mesozoic rock. Cores were dated by potassium–argon and argon–argon dating. The area has been subject to volcanic activity for at least 400,000 years; the lowest layer of eruption material from the Somma caldera lies on top of the 40,000 year‑old Campanian ignimbrite produced by the Campi Flegrei complex.\nThe volcano was then quiet (for 295 years, if the 217 BC date for the last previous eruption is true) and was described by Roman writers as having been covered with gardens and vineyards, except at the top, which was craggy. The volcano may have had only one summit at that time, judging by a wall painting, \"Bacchus and Vesuvius\", found in a Pompeian house, the House of the Centenary (\"Casa del Centenario\").\n\nSeveral surviving works written over the 200 years preceding the AD 79 eruption describe the mountain as having had a volcanic nature, although Pliny the Elder did not depict the mountain in this way in his \"Naturalis Historia\":\n\nIn AD 79 Vesuvius erupted in one of the most catastrophic and famous eruptions of all time. Historians have learned about the eruption from the eyewitness account of Pliny the Younger, a Roman administrator and poet who dated the eruption to August 24th. New evidence, however, suggests that this eruption may have occurred on October 24th.\n\nThe volcano ejected a cloud of stones, ashes and volcanic gases to a height of , spewing molten rock and pulverized pumice at the rate of per second, ultimately releasing a hundred thousand times the thermal energy released by the Hiroshima-Nagasaki bombings. The cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum were destroyed by pyroclastic surges and the ruins buried under tens of metres of tephra.\n\nThe AD 79 eruption was preceded by a powerful earthquake in 62, which caused widespread destruction around the Bay of Naples, and particularly to Pompeii. Some of the damage had still not been repaired when the volcano erupted. The deaths of 600 sheep from \"tainted air\" in the vicinity of Pompeii indicates that the earthquake of AD 62 may have been related to new activity by Vesuvius\n\nThe Romans grew accustomed to minor earth tremors in the region; the writer Pliny the Younger even wrote that they \"were not particularly alarming because they are frequent in Campania\". Small earthquakes started taking place on 20 August 79 becoming more frequent over the next four days, but the warnings were not recognized.\n\nReconstructions of the eruption and its effects vary considerably in the details but have the same overall features. The eruption lasted two days. The morning of the first day was perceived as normal by the only eyewitness to leave a surviving document, Pliny the Younger. In the middle of the day an explosion threw up a high-altitude column from which ash and pumice began to fall, blanketing the area. Rescues and escapes occurred during this time. At some time in the night or early the next day pyroclastic surges in the close vicinity of the volcano began. Lights were seen on the peak interpreted as fires. People as far away as Misenum fled for their lives. The flows were rapid-moving, dense and very hot, knocking down wholly or partly all structures in their path, incinerating or suffocating all population remaining there and altering the landscape, including the coastline. These were accompanied by additional light tremors and a mild tsunami in the Bay of Naples. By late afternoon of the second day, the eruption was over, leaving only haze in the atmosphere through which the sun shone weakly.\n\nThe latest scientific studies of the ash produced by Vesuvius reveals a multi-phase eruption. The initial major explosion produced a column of ash and pumice ranging between high, which rained on Pompeii to the southeast but not on Herculaneum upwind. The chief energy supporting the column came from the escape of steam superheated by the magma, created from seawater seeping over time into the deep faults of the region, that came into interaction with magma and heat.\n\nSubsequently, the cloud collapsed as the gases expanded and lost their capability to support their solid contents, releasing it as a pyroclastic surge, which first reached Herculaneum but not Pompeii. Additional blasts reinstituted the column. The eruption alternated between Plinian and Peléan six times. Surges 3 and 4 are believed by the authors to have buried Pompeii. Surges are identified in the deposits by dune and cross-bedding formations, which are not produced by fallout.\n\nAnother study used the magnetic characteristics of over 200 samples of roof-tile and plaster fragments collected around Pompeii to estimate equilibrium temperature of the pyroclastic flow. The magnetic study revealed that on the first day of the eruption a fall of white pumice containing clastic fragments of up to fell for several hours. It heated the roof tiles up to . This period would have been the last opportunity to escape.\n\nThe collapse of the Plinian columns on the second day caused pyroclastic density currents (PDCs) that devastated Herculaneum and Pompeii. The depositional temperature of these pyroclastic surges ranged up to . Any population remaining in structural refuges could not have escaped, as the city was surrounded by gases of incinerating temperatures. The lowest temperatures were in rooms under collapsed roofs. These were as low as .\n\nThe only surviving eyewitness account of the event consists of two letters by Pliny the Younger to the historian Tacitus. Pliny the Younger describes, amongst other things, the last days in the life of his uncle, Pliny the Elder. Observing the first volcanic activity from Misenum across the Bay of Naples from the volcano, approximately , the elder Pliny launched a rescue fleet and went himself to the rescue of a personal friend. His nephew declined to join the party. One of the nephew's letters relates what he could discover from witnesses of his uncle's experiences. In a second letter the younger Pliny details his own observations after the departure of his uncle.\n\nThe two men saw an extraordinarily dense cloud rising rapidly above the peak. This cloud and a request by a messenger for an evacuation by sea prompted the elder Pliny to order rescue operations in which he sailed away to participate. His nephew attempted to resume a normal life, but that night a tremor awoke him and his mother, prompting them to abandon the house for the courtyard. Further tremors near dawn caused the population to abandon the village and caused disastrous wave action in the Bay of Naples.\n\nThe early light was obscured by a black cloud through which shone flashes, which Pliny likens to sheet lightning, but more extensive. The cloud obscured Point Misenum near at hand and the island of Capraia (Capri) across the bay. Fearing for their lives, the population began to call to each other and move back from the coast along the road. A rain of ash fell, causing Pliny to shake it off periodically to avoid being buried. Later that same day the pumice and ash stopped falling and the sun shone weakly through the cloud, encouraging Pliny and his mother to return to their home and wait for news of Pliny the Elder.\n\nPliny's uncle Pliny the Elder was in command of the Roman fleet at Misenum, and had meanwhile decided to investigate the phenomenon at close hand in a light vessel. As the ship was preparing to leave the area, a messenger came from his friend Rectina (wife of Tascius) living on the coast near the foot of the volcano explaining that her party could only get away by sea and asking for rescue. Pliny ordered the immediate launching of the fleet galleys to the evacuation of the coast. He continued in his light ship to the rescue of Rectina's party.\n\nHe set off across the bay but in the shallows on the other side encountered thick showers of hot cinders, lumps of pumice and pieces of rock. Advised by the helmsman to turn back, he stated \"Fortune favors the brave\" and ordered him to continue on to Stabiae (about 4.5 kilometers from Pompeii).\n\nPliny the Elder and his party saw flames coming from several parts of the crater. After staying overnight, the party was driven from the building by an accumulation of material, presumably tephra, which threatened to block all egress. They woke Pliny, who had been napping and emitting loud snoring. They elected to take to the fields with pillows tied to their heads to protect them from the raining debris. They approached the beach again but the wind prevented the ships from leaving. Pliny sat down on a sail that had been spread for him and could not rise even with assistance when his friends departed. Though Pliny the Elder died, his friends ultimately escaped by land.\n\nIn the first letter to Tacitus, Pliny the Younger suggested that his uncle's death was due to the reaction of his weak lungs to a cloud of poisonous, sulphurous gas that wafted over the group. However, Stabiae was 16 km from the vent (roughly where the modern town of Castellammare di Stabia is situated) and his companions were apparently unaffected by the volcanic gases, and so it is more likely that the corpulent Pliny died from some other cause, such as a stroke or heart attack. His body was found with no apparent injuries on the next day, after dispersal of the plume.\nAlong with Pliny the Elder, the only other noble casualties of the eruption to be known by name were Agrippa (a son of the Herodian Jewish princess Drusilla and the procurator Antonius Felix) and his wife.\n\nBy 2003, around 1,044 casts made from impressions of bodies in the ash deposits had been recovered in and around Pompeii, with the scattered bones of another 100. The remains of about 332 bodies have been found at Herculaneum (300 in arched vaults discovered in 1980). What percentage these numbers are of the total dead or the percentage of the dead to the total number at risk remain completely unknown.\n\nThirty-eight percent of the 1,044 were found in the ash fall deposits, the majority inside buildings. These are thought to have been killed mainly by roof collapses, with the smaller number of victims found outside of buildings probably being killed by falling roof slates or by larger rocks thrown out by the volcano. The remaining 62% of remains found at Pompeii were in the pyroclastic surge deposits, and thus were probably killed by them – probably from a combination of suffocation through ash inhalation and blast and debris thrown around. In contrast to the victims found at Herculaneum, examination of cloth, frescoes and skeletons show that it is unlikely that high temperatures were a significant cause. Herculaneum, which was much closer to the crater, was saved from tephra falls by the wind direction, but was buried under of material deposited by pyroclastic surges. It is likely that most, or all, of the known victims in this town were killed by the surges.\n\nPeople caught on the former seashore by the first surge died of thermal shock. The rest were concentrated in arched chambers at a density of as high as 3 persons per square metre. As only of the coast have been excavated, casualties may be waiting to be excavated.\n\nSince the eruption of AD 79, Vesuvius has erupted around three dozen times. It erupted again in 203, during the lifetime of the historian Cassius Dio. In 472, it ejected such a volume of ash that ashfalls were reported as far away as Constantinople. The eruptions of 512 were so severe that those inhabiting the slopes of Vesuvius were granted exemption from taxes by Theodoric the Great, the Gothic king of Italy. Further eruptions were recorded in 787, 968, 991, 999, 1007 and 1036 with the first recorded lava flows. The volcano became quiescent at the end of the 13th century and in the following years it again became covered with gardens and vineyards as of old. Even the inside of the crater was moderately filled with shrubbery.\n\nVesuvius entered a new phase in December 1631, when a major eruption buried many villages under lava flows, killing around 3,000 people. Torrents of lahar were also created, adding to the devastation. Activity thereafter became almost continuous, with relatively severe eruptions occurring in 1660, 1682, 1694, 1698, 1707, 1737, 1760, 1767, 1779, 1794, 1822, 1834, 1839, 1850, 1855, 1861, 1868, 1872, 1906, 1926, 1929, and 1944.\n\nThe eruption of April 5 in 1906 killed more than 100 people and ejected the most lava ever recorded from a Vesuvian eruption. Italian authorities were preparing to hold the 1908 Summer Olympics when Mount Vesuvius violently erupted, devastating the city of Naples and surrounding comunes. Funds were diverted to the reconstruction of Naples, requiring a new location for the Olympics to be found.\n\nThe last major eruption was in March 1944. It destroyed the villages of San Sebastiano al Vesuvio, Massa di Somma, and Ottaviano, and part of San Giorgio a Cremano. From March 18 to 23, 1944, lava flows appeared within the rim. There were outflows. Small explosions then occurred until the major explosion took place on March 18, 1944.\n\nAt the time of the eruption, the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) 340th Bombardment Group was based at Pompeii Airfield near Terzigno, Italy, just a few kilometres from the eastern base of the volcano. The tephra and hot ash damaged the fabric control surfaces, the engines, the Plexiglas windscreens and the gun turrets of the 340th's B-25 Mitchell medium bombers. Estimates ranged from 78 to 88 aircraft destroyed.\nThe eruption could be seen from Naples. Different perspectives and the damage caused to the local villages were recorded by USAAF photographers and other personnel based nearer to the volcano.\n\nLarge Vesuvian eruptions which emit volcanic material in quantities of about , the most recent of which overwhelmed Pompeii and Herculaneum, have happened after periods of inactivity of a few thousand years. Sub-Plinian eruptions producing about , such as those of 472 and 1631, have been more frequent with a few hundred years between them. From the 1631 eruption until 1944, there was a comparatively small eruption every few years, emitting 0.001–0.01 km³ of magma. It seems that for Vesuvius, the amount of magma expelled in an eruption increases very roughly linearly with the interval since the previous one, and at a rate of around for each year. This gives an approximate figure of for an eruption after 60 years of inactivity.\n\nMagma sitting in an underground chamber for many years will start to see higher melting point constituents such as olivine crystallizing out. The effect is to increase the concentration of dissolved gases (mostly sulfur dioxide and carbon dioxide) in the remaining liquid magma, making the subsequent eruption more violent. As gas-rich magma approaches the surface during an eruption, the huge drop in internal pressure caused by the reduction in weight of the overlying rock (which drops to zero at the surface) causes the gases to come out of solution, the volume of gas increasing explosively from nothing to perhaps many times that of the accompanying magma. Additionally, the removal of the higher melting point material will raise the concentration of felsic components such as silicates potentially making the magma more viscous, adding to the explosive nature of the eruption.\nThe government emergency plan for an eruption therefore assumes that the worst case will be an eruption of similar size and type to the 1631 VEI 4 eruption. In this scenario, the slopes of the volcano, extending out to about from the vent, may be exposed to pyroclastic surges sweeping down them, whilst much of the surrounding area could suffer from tephra falls. Because of prevailing winds, towns and cities to the south and east of the volcano are most at risk from this, and it is assumed that tephra accumulation exceeding —at which point people are at risk from collapsing roofs—may extend out as far as Avellino to the east or Salerno to the south-east. Towards Naples, to the north west, this tephra fall hazard is assumed to extend barely past the slopes of the volcano. The specific areas actually affected by the ash cloud depend upon the particular circumstances surrounding the eruption.\n\nThe plan assumes between 2 weeks' and 20 days' notice of an eruption and foresees the emergency evacuation of 600,000 people, almost entirely comprising all those living in the \"zona rossa\" (\"red zone\"), i.e. at greatest risk from pyroclastic flows. The evacuation, by train, ferry, car, and bus, is planned to take about seven days, and the evacuees would mostly be sent to other parts of the country rather than to safe areas in the local Campania region, and may have to stay away for several months. However, the dilemma that would face those implementing the plan is when to start this massive evacuation: It it starts too late, thousands could be killed; whereas if it is started too early, the indicators of an eruption may turn out to be a false alarm. In 1984, 40,000 people were evacuated from the Campi Flegrei area, another volcanic complex near Naples, but no eruption occurred.\n\nOngoing efforts are being made by the government at various levels (especially of Campania) to reduce the population living in the red zone, by demolishing illegally constructed buildings, establishing a national park around the whole volcano to prevent the future construction of buildings and by offering sufficient financial incentives to people for moving away. One of the underlying goals is to reduce the time needed to evacuate the area, over the next twenty to thirty years, to two or three days.\n\nThe volcano is closely monitored by the Osservatorio Vesuvio in Naples with extensive networks of seismic and gravimetric stations, a combination of a GPS-based geodetic array and satellite-based synthetic aperture radar to measure ground movement and by local surveys and chemical analyses of gases emitted from fumaroles. All of this is intended to track magma rising underneath the volcano. No magma has been detected within 10 km of the surface, and so the volcano is classified by the Observatory as at a Basic or Green Level.\n\nThe area around Vesuvius was officially declared a national park on June 5, 1995. The summit of Vesuvius is open to visitors and there is a small network of paths around the volcano that are maintained by the park authorities on weekends. There is access by road to within of the summit (measured vertically), but thereafter access is on foot only. There is a spiral walkway around the volcano from the road to the crater.\n\nThe first funicular cable car on Mount Vesuvius opened in 1880. It was later destroyed by the March 1944 eruption. \"Funiculì, Funiculà\", a famous Neapolitan language song with lyrics by journalist Peppino Turco set to music by composer Luigi Denza, commemorates its opening.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2831510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2831510", "title": "Natural fiber", "text": "Natural fiber\n\nNatural fibers or natural fibres (see spelling differences) are fibres that are produced by plants, animals, and geological processes. They can be used as a component of composite materials, where the orientation of fibers impacts the properties. Natural fibers can also be matted into sheets to make products such as paper, felt or fabric.\n\nThe earliest evidence of humans using fibers is the discovery of wool and dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in the Republic of Georgia that date back to 36,000 BP. Natural fibers can be used for high-tech applications, such as composite parts for automobiles. Compared to composites reinforced with glass fibers, composites with natural fibers have advantages such as lower density, better thermal insulation, and reduced skin irritation. Further, unlike glass fibers, natural fibers can be broken down by bacteria once they are no longer in use.\n\nNatural fibers are good sweat absorbents and can be found in a variety of textures. Cotton fibers made from the cotton plant, for example, produce fabrics that are light in weight, soft in texture, and which can be made in various sizes and colors. Clothes made of natural fibers such as cotton are often preferred over clothing made of synthetic fibers by people living in hot and humid climates.\n\nNatural fibers are made from plant, animal, and mineral sources. Natural fibers can be classified according to their origin.\n\nAnimal fibers generally comprise proteins such as collagen, keratin and fibroin; examples include silk, sinew, wool, catgut, angora, mohair and alpaca.\n\n\nChitin is the second most abundant natural polymer in the world, with collagen being the first. It is a “linear polysaccharide of β-(1-4)-2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-glucose”. Chitin is highly crystalline and is usually composed of chains organized in a β sheet. Due to its high crystallinity and chemical structure, it is insoluble in many solvents. It also has a low toxicity in the body and is inert in the intestines. Chitin also has antibacterial properties.\n\nChitin forms crystals that make fibrils that become surrounded by proteins. These fibrils can bundle to make larger fibers that contribute to the hierarchical structure of many biological materials. These fibrils can form randomly oriented networks that provide the mechanical strength of the organic layer in different biological materials.\n\nChitin provides protection and structural support to many living organisms. It makes up the cell walls of fungi and yeast, the shells of mollusks, the exoskeletons of insects and arthropods. In shells and exoskeletons, the chitin fibers contribute to their hierarchical structure.\n\nIn nature, pure chitin (100% acetylation) does not exist. It instead exists as a copolymer with chitin's deacetylated derivative, chitosan. When the acetylized composition of the copolymer is over 50% acetylated it is chitin. This copolymer of chitin and chitosan is a random or block copolymer.\n\nChitosan is a deacetylated derivative of chitin. When the acetylized composition of the copolymer is below 50% it is chitosan. Chitosan is a semicrystalline “polymer of β-(1-4)-2-amino-2-deoxy-D-glucose”. One difference between chitin and chitosan is that chitosan is soluble in acidic aqueous solutions. Chitosan is easier to process that chitin, but it is less stable because it is more hydrophilic and has pH sensitivity. Due to its ease of processing, chitosan is used in biomedical applications.\n\nCollagen is a structural protein, often referred to as “the steel of biological materials”. There are multiple types of collagen: Type I (comprising skin, tendons and ligaments, vasculature and organs, as well as teeth and bone); Type II (a component in cartilage); Type III (often found in reticular fibers); and others. Collagen has a hierarchical structure, forming triple helices, fibrils, and fibers.\n\nKeratin is a structural protein located at the hard surfaces in many vertebrates. Keratin has two forms, α-keratin and β-keratin and are used by different classes of animals. The naming convention for proteins follows that for keratin, alpha keratin is helical and beta keratin is sheet like. Alpha keratin is found in mammalian hair, skin, nails, horn and quills, while beta keratin can be found in avian and reptilian species in scales, feathers, and beaks. The two different structures of keratin have dissimilar mechanical properties, as seen in their dissimilar applications. The relative alignment of the keratin fibrils has a significant impact on the mechanical properties. In human hair the filaments of alpha keratin are highly aligned, giving a tensile strength of approximately 200MPa. This tensile strength is an order of magnitude higher than human nails (20MPa), because human hair’s keratin filaments are more aligned.\n\nCompared to synthetic fibers, natural fibers tend have decreased stiffness and strength.\n\nProperties also decrease with the age of the fiber. Younger fibers tend to be stronger and more elastic than older ones. Many natural fibers exhibit strain rate sensitivity due to their viscoelastic nature. Bone contains collagen and exhibits strain rate sensitivity in that the stiffness increases with strain rate, also known as strain hardening. Spider silk has hard and elastic regions that together contribute to its strain rate sensitivity, these cause the silk to exhibit strain hardening as well. Properties of natural fibers are also dependent on the moisture content in the fiber.\n\nThe presence of water plays a crucial role in the mechanical behavior of natural fibers. Hydrated, biopolymers generally have enhanced ductility and toughness. Water plays the role of a plasticizer, a small molecule easing passage of polymer chains and in doing so increasing ductility and toughness. When using natural fibers in applications outside of their native use, the original level of hydration must be taken into account. For example when hydrated, the Young’s Modulus of collagen decreases from 3.26 to 0.6 GPa and becomes both more ductile and tougher. Additionally the density of collagen decreases from 1.34 to 1.18 g/cm^3.\n\nOf industrial value are four animal fibers, wool, silk, camel hair, and angora as well as four plant fibers, cotton, flax, hemp, and jute. Dominant in terms of scale of production and use is cotton for textiles.\n\nNatural fibers are also used in composite materials, much like synthetic or glass fibers. These composites, called biocomposites, are a natural fiber in a matrix of synthetic polymers. One of the first biofiber-reinforced plastics in use was a cellulose fiber in phenolics in 1908. Usage includes applications where energy absorption is important, such as insulation, noise absorbing panels, or collapsable areas in automobiles.\n\nNatural fibers can have different advantages over synthetic reinforcing fibers. Most notably they are biodegradable and renewable. Additionally, they often have low densities and lower processing costs than synthetic materials. Design issues with natural fiber-reinforced composites include poor strength (natural fibers are not as strong as glass fibers) and difficulty with actually bonding the fibers and the matrix. Hydrophobic polymer matrices offer insufficient adhesion for hydrophilic fibers.\n\nNanocomposites are desirable for their mechanical properties. When fillers in a composite are at the nanometer length scale, the surface to volume ratio of the filler material is high, which influences the bulk properties of the composite more compared to traditional composites. The properties of these nanosized elements is markedly different than that of its bulk constituent.\n\nIn regards to natural fibers, some of the best example of nanocomposites appear in biology. Bone, abalone shell, nacre, and tooth enamel are all nanocomposites. As of 2010, most synthetic polymer nanocomposites exhibit inferior toughness and mechanical properties compared to biological nanocomposites. Completely synthetic nanocomposites do exist, however nanosized biopolymers are also being tested in synthetic matrices. Several types of protein based, nanosized fibers are being used in nanocomposites. These include collagen, cellulose, chitin and tunican. These structural proteins must be processed before use in composites.\n\nTo use cellulose as an example, semicrystalline microfibrils are sheared in the amorphous region, resulting in microcrystalline cellulose (MCC). These small, crystalline cellulose fibrils are at this points reclassified as a whisker and can be 2 to 20 nm in diameter with shapes ranging from spherical to cylindrical. Whiskers of collagen, chitin, and cellulose have all be used to make biological nanocomposites. The matrix of these composites are commonly hydrophobic synthetic polymers such as polyethylene, and polyvinyl chloride and copolymers of polystyrene and polyacrylate.\n\nTraditionally in composite science a strong interface between the matrix and filler is required to achieve favorable mechanical properties. If this is not the case, the phases tend to separate along the weak interface and makes for very poor mechanical properties. In a MCC composite however this is not the case, if the interaction between the filler and matrix is stronger than the filler-filler interaction the mechanical strength of the composite is noticeably decreased.\n\nDifficulties in natural fiber nanocomposites arise from dispersity and the tendency small fibers to aggregate in the matrix. Because of the high surface area to volume ratio the fibers have a tendency to aggregate, more so than in micro-scale composites. Additionally secondary processing of collagen sources to obtain sufficient purity collagen micro fibrils adds a degree of cost and challenge to creating a load bearing cellulose or other filler based nanocomposite.\n\nNatural fibers often show promise as biomaterials in medical applications. Chitin is notable in particular and has been incorporated into a variety of uses. Chitin based materials have also been used to remove industrial pollutants from water, processed into fibers and films, and used as biosensors in the food industry. Chitin has also been used several of medical applications. It has been incorporated as a bone filling material for tissue regeneration, a drug carrier and excipient, and as an antitumor agent. Insertion of foreign materials into the body often triggers an immune response, which can have a variety of positive or negative outcomes depending on the bodies response to the material. Implanting something made from naturally synthesized proteins, such as a keratin based implant, has the potential to be recognized as natural tissue by the body. This can lead either to integration in rare cases where the structure of the implant promotes regrowth of tissue with the implant forming a superstructure or degradation of the implant in which the backbones of the proteins are recognized for cleavage by the body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "188094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188094", "title": "Nikolaas Tinbergen", "text": "Nikolaas Tinbergen\n\nNikolaas \"Niko\" Tinbergen (; ; 15 April 1907 – 21 December 1988) was a Dutch biologist and ornithologist who shared the 1973 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Karl von Frisch and Konrad Lorenz for their discoveries concerning organization and elicitation of individual and social behavior patterns in animals. He is regarded as one of the founders of modern ethology, the study of animal behavior.\n\nIn 1951, he published \"The Study of Instinct\", an influential book on animal behaviour.\nIn the 1960s, he collaborated with filmmaker Hugh Falkus on a series of wildlife films, including \"The Riddle of the Rook\" (1972) and \"Signals for Survival\" (1969), which won the Italia prize in that year and the American blue ribbon in 1971.\n\nBorn in The Hague, Netherlands, he was one of five children of Dirk Cornelis Tinbergen and his wife Jeannette van Eek. His brother, Jan Tinbergen, won the first Bank of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel in 1969. They are the only siblings to each win a Nobel Prize. Another brother, Luuk Tinbergen was also a noted biologist.\n\nTinbergen's interest in nature manifested itself when he was young. He studied biology at Leiden University and was a prisoner of war during World War II. Tinbergen's experience as a prisoner of the Nazis led to some friction with longtime intellectual collaborator Konrad Lorenz, and it was several years before the two reconciled.\n\nAfter the war, Tinbergen moved to England, where he taught at the University of Oxford and was a fellow first at Merton College, Oxford and later at Wolfson College, Oxford. Several of his graduate students went on to become prominent biologists including Richard Dawkins, Marian Dawkins, Desmond Morris, Iain Douglas-Hamilton, and Tony Sinclair.\n\nIn 1951 Tinbergen's \"The Study of Instinct\" was published. Behavioural ecologists and evolutionary biologists still recognise the contribution this book offered the field of behavioural science studies. \"The Study of Instinct\" summarises Tinbergen's ideas on innate behavioural reactions in animals and the adaptiveness and evolutionary aspects of these behaviours. By behaviour, he means the total movements made by the intact animal; innate behaviour is that which is not changed by the learning process. The major question of the book is the role of internal and external stimuli in controlling the expression of behaviour.\n\nIn particular, he was interested in explaining 'spontaneous' behaviours: those that occurred in their complete form the first time they were performed and that seemed resistant to the effects of learning. He explains how behaviour can be considered a combination of these spontaneous behaviour patterns and as set series of reactions to particular stimuli. Behaviour is a reaction in that to a certain extent it is reliant on external stimuli, however it is also spontaneous since it is also dependent upon internal causal factors.\n\nHis model for how certain behavioural reactions are provoked was based on work by Konrad Lorenz. Lorenz postulated that for each instinctive act there is a specific energy which builds up in a reservoir in the brain. In this model, Lorenz envisioned a reservoir with a spring valve at its base that an appropriate stimulus could act on, much like a weight on a scale pan pulling against a spring and releasing the reservoir of energy, an action which would lead an animal to express the desired behaviour.\n\nTinbergen added complexity to this model, a model now known as Tinbergen's hierarchical model. He suggested that motivational impulses build up in nervous centres in the brain which are held in check by blocks. The blocks are removed by an innate releasing mechanism that allows the energy to flow to the next centre (each centre containing a block that needs to be removed) in a cascade until the behaviour is expressed. Tinbergen's model shows multiple levels of complexity and that related behaviours are grouped.\n\nAn example is in his experiments with foraging honey bees. He showed that honey bees show curiosity for yellow and blue paper models of flowers, and suggested that these were visual stimuli causing the buildup of energy in one specific centre. However, the bees rarely landed on the model flowers unless the proper odour was also applied. In this case, the chemical stimuli of the odour allowed the next link in the chain to be released, encouraging the bee to land. The final step was for the bee to insert its mouthparts into the flower and initiate suckling. Tinbergen envisioned this as concluding the reaction set for honey bee feeding behaviour.\n\nIn 1973 Tinbergen, along with Konrad Lorenz and Karl von Frisch, were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine \"for their discoveries concerning organization and elicitation of individual and social behaviour patterns\". The award recognised their studies on genetically programmed behaviour patterns, their origins, maturation and their elicitation by key stimuli. In his Nobel Lecture, Tinbergen addressed the somewhat unconventional decision of the Nobel Foundation to award the prize for Physiology or Medicine to three men who had until recently been regarded as \"mere animal watchers\". Tinbergen stated that their revival of the \"watching and wondering\" approach to studying behaviour could indeed contribute to the relief of human suffering.\n\nThe studies performed by the trio on fish, insects and birds laid the foundation for further studies on the importance of specific experiences during critical periods of normal development, as well as the effects of abnormal psychosocial situations in mammals. At the time, these discoveries were stated to have caused \"a breakthrough in the understanding of the mechanisms behind various symptoms of psychiatric disease, such as anguish, compulsive obsession, stereotypic behaviour and catatonic posture\". Tinbergen’s contribution to these studies included the testing of the hypotheses of Lorenz/von Frisch by means of \"comprehensive, careful, and ingenious experiments\" as well as his work on supernormal stimuli. The work of Tinbergen during this time was also regarded as having possible implications for further research in child development and behaviour.\n\nHe also caused some intrigue by dedicating a large part of his acceptance speech to FM Alexander, originator of the Alexander technique, a method which investigates postural reflexes and responses in human beings.\n\nIn 1950 Tinbergen became member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1962. He was also awarded the Godman-Salvin Medal in 1969 by the British Ornithologists' Union, and in 1973 received the Swammderdam Medal and Wilhelm Bölsche Medal (from the Genootschap ter bervordering van Natuur-, Genees- en Heelkunde of the University of Amsterdam and the Kosmos-Gesellschaft der Naturfreunde respectively).\n\nTinbergen described four questions he believed should be asked of any animal behaviour, which were:\n\n\nIn ethology and sociobiology, causation and ontogeny are summarised as the \"proximate mechanisms\", while adaptation and phylogeny are the \"ultimate mechanisms\". They are still considered as the cornerstone of modern ethology, sociobiology and transdisciplinarity in Human Sciences.\n\nA major body of Tinbergen's research focused on what he termed the supernormal stimulus. This was the concept that one could build an artificial object which was a stronger stimulus or releaser for an instinct than the object for which the instinct originally evolved. He constructed plaster eggs to see which a bird preferred to sit on, finding that they would select those that were larger, had more defined markings, or more saturated colour—and a dayglo-bright one with black polka dots would be selected over the bird's own pale, dappled eggs.\n\nTinbergen found that territorial male three-spined stickleback (a small freshwater fish) would attack a wooden fish model more vigorously than a real male if its underside was redder. He constructed cardboard dummy butterflies with more defined markings that male butterflies would try to mate with in preference to real females. The superstimulus, by its exaggerations, clearly delineated what characteristics were eliciting the instinctual response.\n\nAmong the modern works calling attention to Tinbergen's classic work is Deirdre Barrett's 2010 book, \"Supernormal Stimuli\".\n\nTinbergen applied his observational methods to the problems of autistic children. He recommended a \"holding therapy\" in which parents hold their autistic children for long periods of time while attempting to establish eye contact, even when a child resists the embrace. However, his interpretations of autistic behaviour, and the holding therapy that he recommended, lacked scientific support and the therapy is described as controversial and potentially abusive.\n\nSome of the publications of Tinbergen are:\n\nPublications about Tinbergen and his work:\n\nTinbergen was a member of the advisory committee to the Anti-Concorde Project and was also an atheist.\n\nTinbergen married Elisabeth Rutten and they had five children. Later in life he suffered depression and feared he might, like his brother Luuk, commit suicide. He was treated by his friend, whose ideas he had greatly influenced, John Bowlby. Tinbergen died on 21 December 1988, after suffering a stroke at his home in Oxford, England.\n"}
{"id": "30757785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30757785", "title": "Ore Mountain passes", "text": "Ore Mountain passes\n\nThe Ore Mountain passes () are crossings and passages over the crest of the Ore Mountains in Central Europe, over which tracks, roads, railway lines and pipelines run from the Free State of Saxony in the Federal Republic of Germany to Bohemia in the Czech Republic and vice versa.\n\nThe shape of the terrain and the climate are the most important physical-geographic conditions that exert an influence on the course and the design of routes across the Ore Mountains, even today. Geomorphologically, the mountains form a fault block, sharply uplifted in the south and sloping gradually away to the north. The appearance of the mountains in the Saxon part is characterised less by their absolute height, but by deep and sometimes winding valleys that have cut notches up to 200 metres deep into the terrain. The area between the valleys comprises gently rolling plateaus that from an early time enabled favourable transportation routes to be developed, often with gentle inclines. In fact such communications only became a problem where one of the deep valleys had to be crossed. Significantly less easy to negotiate, however, is the steep descent to the south towards Bohemia, where the Ore Mountains drop up to 700 metres in less than 10 kilometres. Even today, the upgraded transit roads in this section have gradients of over 10%.\n\nThe Ore Mountain crest itself forms a series of plateaus and individual peaks, interrupted by saddles. From the Vogtland the ridge climbs to about 1,000 metres in height and then falls to about 900 metres near Johanngeorgenstadt (Platten Pass). The ridge rises again to the Fichtelberg/Klínovec (Keilberg) summits that are over 1,200 metres high. Between the two mountains, the crest sinks down to the Wiesenthal Pass at 1,080 metres. By Deutscheinsiedler Saddle, the lowest crossing over the mountains, the ridgeline drops by 750 metres to the Reitzenhain Pass (820 m). To the north-east the crest reaches 900 metres again at the Kahleberg before descending to about 500 metres to the Elbe Sandstone Mountains.\n\nDue to the lack of a water gap through the mountains, the mountain passes are relatively high. Thus, the middle ridge of the Ore Mountains is about 880 metres high and the average saddle height is only slightly lower at 810 metres. Because the fault block is uplifted on one side along the Eger trough and the border diverges away from the ridge line, the Ore Mountains reach their greatest height on the Bohemian side. Thus most of the passes are already in Bohemia. They reach an average altitude of 700–900 m above sea level. The highest pass, at 1,083 m above sea level, is the Wiesenthal Pass. The lowest-lying is the Nollendorf Pass at 680 m.\nOn the upper slopes of the Ore Mountains the climate may quite clearly be described as harsh. For that reason, the Upper Ore Mountains was also referred to in the past as Saxon Siberia. The annual rainfall on the high ridges is up to over 1,100 millimetres, with the majority falling as snow. The annual average temperatures reach values of only 3 to 5 °C. At Oberwiesenthal, located 922 m above sea level, there are on average only about 140 frost-free days a year. These winter temperatures and snowfalls during the winter months, especially on the mountain passes, lead to traffic problems, congestion and closures, even today. According to reports by historians in the past, winters in previous centuries in the upper Ore Mountain regions must have been even harder than today. Prolonged periods of frost and continuous snow cover, metre-high snowdrifts and snow storms often made roads and passes impassable for weeks. Reports by the State Post Office on the road to the mining town of Sayda on the Deutscheinsiedler Saddle dated February 1855, state that \"... because of the immense masses of snow, progress [is] almost impossible, just as impossible are the conditions during snowfalls\". Post had to be transported by sledge and messengers, \"because \"two horses side by side cannot not wade through the piles of snow\"\".\n\nMention should also be made of the danger of flooding during the snow melts in summer and thunderstorms. Floods have occurred repeatedly in the past, most recently in August 2002, when considerable destruction was caused to access roads in the valleys to the Ore Mountain passes.\n\nOne route variation of the Kulmer Steig ran over the Nakléřov Pass in the eastern Ore Mountains. The old road crossed the Saxon-Bohemian border from Fürstenwalde in the west to Oelsen in the east and ran down the steep escarpment of the Ore Mountains into the Bohemian Chlumec u Chabařovic and on into the interior of the Kingdom of Bohemia.\n\nThe Kulmer Steig was reportedly being used in the 13th century. The pass became known as a result of the War of the Sixth Coalition and the Battle of Kulm and Nollendorf on 29 and 30 August 1813. In Berlin-Schöneberg, \"Nollendorfplatz\" and \"Nollendorfstraße\" are named after the small Ore Mountain village of Nakléřov (Nollendorf), of which nothing is left today of the church town that according to legend Napoleon watched the battle from. From 1913 to just after 1950 a 21 metre high observation tower stood on the Nakléřovská výšina, which bore the name \"Kaiserwarte\" and, after 1919, \"Carl Weis Warte\".\n\nThe Nakléřov Pass has in recent history been the subject of both positive and negative headlines. In 1936 the Olympic Flame crossed the pass on its way from Athens to Berlin. A monument erected on the border at Bahratal recalls this. In 1968 the Red Army used the mountain crossing in order to suppress the Prague Spring reforms by invading Czechoslovakia.\n\n"}
{"id": "19333919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19333919", "title": "Parmelia sulcata", "text": "Parmelia sulcata\n\nParmelia sulcata is a foliose lichen in the family Parmeliaceae. It is very tolerant of pollution and has a cosmopolitan distribution, making it one of the most common lichens. It harbours a unicellular \"Trebouxia\" green algal symbiont.\n\nFirst described by Thomas Taylor in 1836 under its current name, \"Parmelia sulcata\" has a large number of named varieties and forms, but no subspecies despite its extensive range. Most taxonomists have left the species in the genus to which Taylor originally assigned it, though mycologist Maurice Choisy assigned it to the genus \"Parmotrema\" in 1952.\n\nThe genus name \"Parmelia\" is a compound of two Greek words: \"parme\", meaning \"fruit bowl\" and \"-eileo\", meaning \"enclosed\". This likely refers to the lecanorine apothecia of species belonging to the genus. The specific epithet \"sulcata\" is derived from \"sulcatus\", meaning \"grooved\" or \"furrowed\". The species is known by a number of colloquial names, including hammered shield lichen, cracked-shield lichen, powdered crottle, furrowed shield lichen, powdered shield, and waxpaper lichen.\n\n\"Parmelia sulcata\" is a foliose lichen with a generally circular thallus that can range in color from glaucous white to gray on the upper cortex; the lower surface is black. The thallus is broadly lobed. Each lobe measures between in width, and lobes are overlapping.\n\nThe lichen's medulla and soredia react positively with potassium hydroxide (K), turning red-orange. They react positively with para-phenylenediamene (Pd) as well, also turning orange. The lichen does not fluoresce in ultraviolet light.\n\n\"Parmelia sulcata\" is a common species throughout much of the world, found from temperate to cold regions of both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres.\n\nThis species can be used to make dyes, producing a reddish-brown color. Indigenous people in North America used the lichen medicinally. The Métis peoples rubbed it on the gums of teething babies, while the Saanich peoples used it for a variety of ailments, with the medicinal qualities depending on what type of tree it was harvested from.\n\nIt often grows in lichen communities with other species. In the Jura Mountains of Switzerland, for example, it regularly occurs with \"Lobaria pulmonaria\" and various \"Nephroma\" species.\n"}
{"id": "31357336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31357336", "title": "Peruvian Yungas", "text": "Peruvian Yungas\n\nThe Peruvian Yungas is a tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion in the Yungas of Peru.\n\nThe Peruvian Yungas occur on the eastern slopes and valleys of the Peruvian Andes. They form a transition zone between the Southwest Amazon moist forests and Ucayali moist forests at lower elevations to the east and the Central Andean puna and wet puna at higher elevations to the west.\n\nThe climate in this ecoregion varies from a tropical rainforest climate in the north to a subtropical highland climate in the south. Precipitation ranges from per year.\n\nThis ecoregion contains over 3,000 species of plants, including 200 species of orchids. Orchid genera include \"Epidendrum\" and \"Maxillaria\". Tree ferns (\"Cyathea\") and bamboo (\"Chusquea\") are common. Below , the forest includes species such as cedar (\"Cedrela\"), trumpet tree (\"Tabebuia\"), and relatives of papaya (\"Carica\"). Above , there are scrublands and wet rocky thickets with shrubs and land orchids as well as forests of \"Podocarpus\" conifers.\n\nThis ecoregion contains over 200 species of vertebrates. The gallito de las rocas (\"Rupicola peruviana\") is endemic.\n\nNotable mammals include the shrew opossums (\"Caenolestes\") and Kalinowski's Agouti (\"Dasyprocta kalinowskii\"), as well as the northern pudú (\"Pudu mephistophiles\") and the hairy long-nosed armadillo (\"Dasypus pilosus\").\n\nNotable species with limited distributions found here include the horned curassow (\"Pauxi unicornis\"), hummingbirds (\"Metallura theresiae\", \"Heliangelus regalis\"), the long-whiskered owlet (\"Xenoglaux loweryi\") and the Marañón poison frog (\"Dendrobates mysteriosus\").\n\nEndangered and threatened species include the yellow-tailed woolly monkey (\"Oreonax flavicauda\"), jaguar (\"Panthera onca\"), ocelot (\"Leopardus pardalis\"), spectacled bear (\"Tremarctos ornatus\"), neotropical otter (\"Lontra longicaudis\"), colocolo (\"Oncifelis colocolo\"), Andean cock-of-the-rock (\"Rupicola peruviana\") and cinchona (\"Cinchona\" sp.).\n\nThis ecoregions also has endemic species of butterflies from the genera \"Dismopha\", \"Callithea\", \"Paridos\", and \"Morpho\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28059804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28059804", "title": "Primavera (painting)", "text": "Primavera (painting)\n\nPrimavera (, meaning \"Spring\"), is a large panel painting in tempera paint by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli made in the late 1470s or early 1480s (datings vary). It has been described as \"one of the most written about, and most controversial paintings in the world\", and also \"one of the most popular paintings in Western art\".\n\nThe painting depicts a group of figures from classical mythology in a garden, but no story has been found that brings this particular group together. Most critics agree that the painting is an allegory based on the lush growth of Spring, but accounts of any precise meaning vary, though many involve the Renaissance Neoplatonism which then fascinated intellectual circles in Florence. The subject was first described as \"Primavera\" by the art historian Giorgio Vasari who saw it at Villa Castello, just outside Florence, by 1550.\n\nAlthough the two are now known not to be a pair, the painting is inevitably discussed with Botticelli's other very large mythological painting, \"The Birth of Venus\", also in the Uffizi. They are among the most famous paintings in the world, and icons of the Italian Renaissance; of the two, the \"Birth\" is even better known than the \"Primavera\". As depictions of subjects from classical mythology on a very large scale they were virtually unprecedented in Western art since classical antiquity. It used to be thought that they were both commissioned by the same member of the Medici family, but this is now uncertain.\n\nThe history of the painting is not certainly known, though it seems to have been commissioned by one of the Medici family. It draws from a number of classical and Renaissance literary sources, including the works of the Ancient Roman poet Ovid and, less certainly, Lucretius, and may also allude to a poem by Poliziano, the Medici house poet who may have helped Botticelli devise the composition. Since 1919 the painting has been part of the collection of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, Italy.\n\nThe painting features six female figures and two male, along with a cupid, in an orange grove. The movement of the composition is from right to left, so following that direction the standard identification of the figures is: at far right \"Zephyrus, the biting wind of March, kidnaps and possesses the nymph Chloris, whom he later marries and transforms into a deity; she becomes the goddess of Spring, eternal bearer of life, and is scattering roses on the ground.\" Chloris the nymph overlaps Flora, the goddess she transforms into.\n\nIn the centre (but not exactly so) and somewhat set back from the other figures stands Venus, a red-draped woman in blue. Like the flower-gatherer, she returns the viewer's gaze. The trees behind her form a broken arch to draw the eye. In the air above her a blindfolded Cupid aims his bow to the left. On the left of the painting the Three Graces, a group of three females also in diaphanous white, join hands in a dance. At the extreme left Mercury, clothed in red with a sword and a helmet, raises his caduceus or wooden rod towards some wispy gray clouds.\n\nThe interactions between the figures are enigmatic. Zephyrus and Chloris are looking at each other. Flora and Venus look out at the viewer, the Cupid is blindfolded, and Mercury has turned his back on the others, and looks up at the clouds. The central Grace looks towards him, while the other two seem to look at each other. Flora's smile was very unusual in painting at this date.\nThe pastoral scenery is elaborate. There are 500 identified plant species depicted in the painting, with about 190 different flowers, of which at least 130 can be specifically identified. The overall appearance, and size, of the painting is similar to that of the millefleur (\"thousand flower\") Flemish tapestries that were popular decorations for palaces at the time.\n\nThese tapestries had not caught up by the 1480s with the artistic developments of the Italian Renaissance, and the composition of the painting has aspects that belong to this still Gothic style. The figures are spread in a rough line across the front of the picture space, \"set side by side like pearls on a string\". It is now known that in the setting for which the painting was designed the bottom was about at eye level, or slightly above it, partly explaining \"the gently rising plane\" on which the figures stand.\n\nThe feet of Venus are considerably higher than those of the others, showing she is behind them, but she is at the same scale, if not larger, than the other figures. Overlapping of other figures by Mercury's sword and Chloris' hands shows that they stand slightly in front of the left Grace and Flora respectively, which might not be obvious otherwise, for example from their feet. It has been argued that the flowers do not grow smaller to the rear of the picture space, certainly a feature of the millefleur tapestries.\n\nThe costumes of the figures are versions of the dress of contemporary Florence, though the sort of \"quasi-theatrical costumes designed for masquerades of the sort that Vasari wrote were invented by Lorenzo de’ Medici for civic festivals and tournaments.\" The lack of an obvious narrative may relate to the world of pageants and \"tableau vivants\" as well as typically static Gothic allegories.\n\nVarious interpretations of the figures have been set forth, but it is generally agreed that at least at one level the painting is \"an elaborate mythological allegory of the burgeoning fertility of the world.\" It is thought that Botticelli had help devising the composition of the painting and whatever meanings it was intended to contain, as it appears that the painting reflects a deep knowledge of classical literature and philosophy that Botticelli is unlikely to have possessed. Poliziano is usually thought to have been involved in this, though Marsilio Ficino, another member of Lorenzo de' Medici's circle and a key figure in Renaissance Neoplatonism, has also often been mentioned.\n\nOne aspect of the painting is a depiction of the progress of the season of spring, reading from right to left. The wind of early Spring blows on the land and brings forth growth and flowers, presided over by Venus, goddess of April, with at the left Mercury, the god of the month of May in an early Roman calendar, chasing away the last clouds before summer. As well as being part of a sequence over the season, Mercury in dispelling the clouds is acting as the guard of the garden, partly explaining his military dress and his facing out of the picture space. A passage in Virgil's \"Aeneid\" describes him clearing the skies with his caduceus. A more positive, Neoplatonist, view of the clouds is that they are \"the benificent veils through which the splendour of transcendent truth may reach the beholder without destroying him.\"\n\nVenus presides over the garden – an orange grove (a Medici symbol). It is also the Garden of the Hesperides of classical myth, from which the golden apples used in the Judgement of Paris came; the Hellenistic Greeks had decided that these were citrus fruits, exotic to them. According to Claudian, no clouds were allowed there. Venus stands in front of the dark leaves of a myrtle bush. According to Hesiod, Venus had been born of the sea after the semen of Uranus had fallen upon the waters. Coming ashore in a shell she had clothed her nakedness in myrtle, and so the plant became sacred to her. Venus appears here in her character as a goddess of marriage, clothed and with her hair modestly covered, as married women were expected to appear in public.\n\nThe Three Graces are sisters, and traditionally accompany Venus. In classical art (but not literature) they are normally nude, and typically stand still as they hold hands, but the depiction here is very close to one adapting Seneca by Leon Battista Alberti in his \"De pictura\" (1435), which Botticelli certainly knew. From the left they are identified by Edgar Wind as Voluptas, Castitas, and Pulchritudo (Pleasure, Chastity and Beauty), though other names are found in mythology, and it is noticeable that many writers, including Lightbown and the Ettlingers, refrain from naming Botticelli's Graces at all.\nCupid's arrow is aimed at the middle Grace, Chastity according to Wind, and the impact of love on chastity, leading to a marriage, features in many interpretations. Chastity looks towards Mercury, and some interpretations, especially those identifying the figures as modelled on actual individuals, see this couple as one to match Chloris and Zephyrus on the other side of the painting.\n\nIn a different interpretation the earthy carnal love represented by Zephyrus to the right is renounced by the central figure of the Graces, who has turned her back to the scene, unconcerned by the threat represented to her by Cupid. Her focus is on Mercury, who himself gazes beyond the canvas at what many believe hung as the companion piece to \"Primavera\": \"Pallas and the Centaur\", in which \"love oriented towards knowledge\" (embodied by Pallas Athena) proves triumphant over lust (symbolized by the centaur).\n\nThe basic identification of the figures is now widely agreed, but in the past other names have sometimes been used for the females on the right, who are two stages of the same person in the usual interpretation. The woman in the flowered dress may be called Primavera (a personification of Spring), with Flora the figure pursued by Zephyrus. One scholar suggested in 2011 that the central figure is not Venus at all, but Persephone.\n\nIn addition to its overt meaning, the painting has been interpreted as an illustration of the ideal of Neoplatonic love popularized among the Medicis and their followers by Marsilio Ficino. The Neoplatonic philosophers saw Venus as ruling over both earthly and divine love and argued that she was the classical equivalent of the Virgin Mary; this is alluded to by the way she is framed in an altar-like setting that is similar to contemporary images of the Virgin Mary. Venus' hand gesture of welcome, probably directed to the viewer, is the same as that used by Mary to the Archangel Gabriel in contemporary paintings of the \"Annunciation\".\n\nPunning allusions to Medici names probably include the golden balls of the oranges, recalling those on the Medici coat of arms, the laurel trees at right, for either Lorenzo, and the flames on the costume of both Mercury (for whom they are a regular attribute) and Venus, which are also an attribute of Saint Laurence (Lorenzo in Italian). Mercury was the god of medicine and \"doctors\", \"medici\" in Italian. Such puns for the Medici, and in \"Venus and Mars\" the Vespucci, run through all Botticelli's mythological paintings.\n\nOf the very many literary sources that may have fed into the painting, the clearest was first noted in modern times by Aby Warburg in 1893, in his seminal dissertation on the painting. The group at the right of the painting was inspired by a description by the Roman poet Ovid of the arrival of Spring (\"Fasti\", Book 5, May 2). In this the wood nymph Chloris recounts how her naked charms attracted the first wind of Spring, Zephyr. Zephyr pursued her and as she was ravished, flowers sprang from her mouth and she became transformed into Flora, goddess of flowers. In Ovid's work the reader is told 'till then the earth had been but of one colour'. From Chloris' name the colour may be guessed to have been green – the Greek word for green is \"khloros\", the root of words like chlorophyll – and may be why Botticeli painted Zephyr in shades of bluish-green.\n\nOther specific elements may have been derived from a poem by Poliziano. As Poliziano's poem, \"Rusticus\", was published in 1483 and the painting is generally held to have been completed by around 1482, some scholars have argued that the influence was reversed, bearing in mind that Poliziano is generally thought to have helped with devising the allegory in the painting.\n\nAnother inspiration for the painting seems to have been the poem by Lucretius \"De rerum natura\", which includes the lines, \"Spring-time and Venus come, and Venus' boy, / The winged harbinger, steps on before, / And hard on Zephyr's foot-prints Mother Flora, / Sprinkling the ways before them, filleth all / With colors and with odors excellent.\"\n\nWhere there is a plethora of literary sources, most of them probably not known directly by Botticelli, or set out for him by advisors, the visual sources are a different matter:\n\nBut where, in the visual rather than the literary sense, did the vision come from? That is the mystery of genius. From antique sarcophagi, from a few gems and reliefs, and perhaps some fragments of Aretine ware; from those drawings of classical remains by contemporary artists which were circulated in the Florentine workshops, like the architects' pattern-books of the 18th century; from such scanty and mediocre material, Botticelli has created one of the most personal evocations of physical beauty in the whole of art, the Three Graces of the \"Primavera\". (Kenneth Clark)\n\nThe origin of the painting is unclear. Botticelli was away in Rome for many months in 1481/82, painting in the Sistine Chapel, and suggested dates are in recent years mostly later than this, but still sometimes before. Thinking has been somewhat changed by the publication in 1975 of an inventory from 1499 of the collection of Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici.\n\nThe 1499 inventory records it hanging in the city palace of Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici and his brother Giovanni \"Il Popolano\". They were the cousins of Lorenzo de' Medici (\"Lorenzo il Magnifico\"), who was effectively the ruler of Florence, and after their father's early death had been his wards. It hung over a large \"lettuccio\", an elaborate piece of furniture including a raised base, a seat and a backboard, probably topped with a cornice. The bottom of the painting was probably at about the viewer's eye-level, so rather higher than it is hung today.\n\nIn the same room was Botticelli's \"Pallas and the Centaur\", and also a large tondo with the \"Virgin and Child\". The tondo is now unidentified, but is a type of painting especially associated with Botticelli. This was given the highest value of the three paintings, at 180 lire. A further inventory of 1503 records that the \"Primavera\" had a large white frame.\n\nIn the first edition of his \"Life of Botticelli\", published in 1550, Giorgio Vasari said that he had seen this painting, and the \"Birth of Venus\", hanging in the Medici country Villa di Castello. Before the inventory was known it was usually believed that both paintings were made for the villa, probably soon after it was acquired in 1477, either commissioned by Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco or perhaps given to him by his older cousin and guardian Lorenzo de' Medici. Rather oddly, Vasari says both paintings contained female nudes, which is not strictly the case here. \n\nMost scholars now connect the painting to the marriage of Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici. Paintings and furniture were often given as presents celebrating weddings. The marriage was on 19 July 1482, but had been postponed after the death of the elder Lorenzo's mother on 25 March. It was originally planned for May. Recent datings tend to prefer the early 1480s, after Botticelli's return from Rome, suggesting it was directly commissioned in connection with this wedding, a view supported by many.\n\nAnother older theory, assuming an early date, suggests the older Lorenzo commissioned the portrait to celebrate the birth of his nephew Giulio di Giuliano de' Medici (who later became Pope), but changed his mind after the assassination of Giulo's father, his brother Giuliano in 1478, having it instead completed as a wedding gift for Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco.\n\nIt is frequently suggested that Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco is the model for Mercury in the portrait, and his bride Semirande represented as Flora (or Venus). In older theories, placing the painting in the 1470s, it was proposed that the model for Venus was Simonetta Vespucci, wife of Marco Vespucci and according to popular legend the mistress of Giuliano de' Medici (who is also sometimes said to have been the model for Mercury); these identifications largely depend on an early date, in the 1470s, as both were dead by 1478. Simonetta was the aunt of Lorenzo's bride Semirande. Summarizing the many interpretations of the painting, Leopold Ettlinger includes \"descending to the ludricous – a Wagnerian pantomime enacted in memory of the murdered Giuliano de' Medici and his beloved Simonetta Vespucci with the Germanic Norns disguised as the Mediterranean Graces.\"\n\nWhenever this painting and the \"Birth of Venus\" were united at Castello, they have remained together ever since. They stayed in Castello until 1815, when they were transferred to the Uffizi. For some years until 1919 they were kept in the Galleria dell'Accademia, another government museum in Florence. Since 1919, it has hung in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. During the Italian campaign of World War Two, the picture was moved to Montegufoni Castle about ten miles south west of Florence to protect it from wartime bombing.\n\nIt was returned to the Uffizi Gallery where it remains to the present day. In 1978, the painting was restored. The work has darkened considerably over the course of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "56413729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56413729", "title": "Recycling rates by country", "text": "Recycling rates by country\n\nThe following table gives the percentages of material that is recycled, incinerated, incinerated to produce energy and landfilled.\n"}
{"id": "59855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59855", "title": "Rhea (mythology)", "text": "Rhea (mythology)\n\nRhea (; Ancient Greek: Ῥέα ) is a character in Greek mythology, the Titaness daughter of the earth goddess Gaia and the sky god Uranus as well as sister and wife to Cronus. In early traditions, she is known as \"the mother of gods\" and therefore is strongly associated with Gaia and Cybele, who have similar functions. The classical Greeks saw her as the mother of the Olympian gods and goddesses, but not as an Olympian goddess in her own right. The Romans identified her with Magna Mater (their form of Cybele), and the Goddess Ops.\n\nMost ancient etymologists derived ' () by metathesis from \"ground\", although a tradition embodied in Plato and in Chrysippus connected the word with (\"\"), \"flow\", \"discharge\", which is what \"LSJ\" supports. Alternatively, the name \"Rhea\" may be connected with words for the pomegranate, , later .\n\nThe name \"Rhea\" may ultimately derive from a pre-Greek or Minoan source. Graves suggested that Rhea's name is probably a variant of Era, 'earth'.\n\nAccording to Hesiod, Cronus sired six children by Rhea: Hestia, Demeter, Hera, Hades, Poseidon, and Zeus in that order. The philosopher Plato recounts that Rhea, Cronus and Phorcys were the eldest children of Oceanus and Tethys.\n\nGaia and Uranus told Cronus that just as he had overthrown his own father, he was destined to be overcome by his own child; so as each of his children was born, Cronus swallowed them. Rhea, Uranus and Gaia devised a plan to save the last of them, Zeus. Rhea gave birth to Zeus in a cavern on the island of Crete, and gave Cronus a stone wrapped in swaddling clothes, which he promptly swallowed; Rhea hid her infant son Zeus in a cave on Mount Ida. Her attendants, the warrior-like Kouretes and Dactyls, acted as a bodyguard for the infant Zeus, helping to conceal his whereabouts from his father. \n\nIn some accounts, by the will of Rhea a golden dog guarded a goat which offered her udder and gave nourishment to the infant Zeus. Later on, Zeus changed the goat into an immortal among the stars while the golden dog that guarded the sacred spot in Crete was stolen by Pandareus.\"\"\n\nRhea had \"no strong local cult or identifiable activity under her control\". She was originally worshiped on the island of Crete, identified in mythology as the site of Zeus's infancy and upbringing. Her cults employed rhythmic, raucous chants and dances, accompanied by the tympanon (a wide, handheld drum), to provoke a religious ecstasy. Her priests impersonated her mythical attendants, the Curetes and Dactyls, with a clashing of bronze shields and cymbals. \n\nThe tympanon's use in Rhea's rites may have been the source for its use in Cybele's – in historical times, the resemblances between the two goddesses were so marked that some Greeks regarded Cybele as their own Rhea, who had deserted her original home on Mount Ida in Crete and fled to Mount Ida in the wilds of Phrygia to escape Cronus. A reverse view was expressed by Virgil, and it is probably true that cultural contacts with the mainland brought Cybele to Crete, where she was transformed into Rhea or identified with an existing local goddess and her rites.\n\nRhea was often referred to in ancient times by the title \"Meter Theon\" (Mother of the Gods) and there where several temples around Ancient Greece dedicated to her under that name. Pausanias mentioned temples dedicated to Rhea under the name Meter Theon in Anagyros in Attika, Megalopolis in Arkadia, on the Acropolis of Ancient Corinth, and in the district of Keramaikos in Athens, where the statue was made by Pheidias. In Sparta there was further more a sanctuary to the \"Meter Megale\" (Great Mother). Olympia had both an altar as well as a temple to the Meter Theon: \n\nHer temple in Akriai, Lakedaimon was said to be her oldest sanctuary in Peloponessos: \n\nStatues of her were also standing in the sanctuaries of other gods and in other places, such as a statue of Parian marble by Damophon in Messene. The scene in which Rhea gave Chronos a stone in the place of Zeus after his birth was assigned to have taken place on Petrakhos Mountain in Arcadia as well as on Mount Thaumasios in Arcadia, both of which were holy places: \n\nThe center of the worship of Rhea was however on Crete, where the Ida Mountain was said to be the place of the birth of Zeus. Reportedly, there was a \"House of Rhea\" in Knossos: \n\nUpon the Ida Mountain, there was a cave sacred to Rhea:\n\nRhea only appears in Greek art from the fourth century BC, when her iconography draws on that of Cybele; the two therefore, often are indistinguishable; both can be shown on a throne flanked by lions, riding a lion, or on a chariot drawn by two lions. In Roman religion, her counterpart Cybele was Magna Mater deorum Idaea, who was brought to Rome and was identified in Roman mythology as an ancestral Trojan deity. On a functional level, Rhea was thought equivalent to Roman Ops or \"Opis\".\n\nIn Homer, Rhea is the mother of the gods, although not a universal mother like Cybele, the Phrygian Great Mother, with whom she was later identified.\n\nIn the \"Argonautica\" by Apollonius of Rhodes, the fusion of Rhea and Phrygian Cybele is completed. \"Upon the Mother depend the winds, the ocean, the whole earth beneath the snowy seat of Olympus; whenever she leaves the mountains and climbs to the great vault of heaven, Zeus himself, the son of Cronus, makes way, and all the other immortal gods likewise make way for the dread goddess,\" the seer Mopsus tells Jason in \"Argonautica\"; Jason climbed to the sanctuary high on Mount Dindymon to offer sacrifice and libations to placate the goddess, so that the Argonauts might continue on their way. For her \"temenos\" they wrought an image of the goddess, a \"xoanon\", from a vine-stump. There \"they called upon the mother of Dindymon, mistress of all, the dweller in Phrygia, and with her Titias and Kyllenos who alone of the many Cretan Daktyls of Ida are called 'guiders of destiny' and 'those who sit beside the Idaean Mother'.\" They leapt and danced in their armour: \"For this reason the Phrygians still worship Rhea with tambourines and drums\".\n\nThe name of the bird species \"Rhea\" is derived from the goddess name \"Rhea\".\n\nThe second largest moon of the planet Saturn is named after her.\n\n"}
{"id": "5096939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5096939", "title": "Schoepite", "text": "Schoepite\n\nSchoepite, empirical formula (UO)O(OH)•12(HO) is a rare alteration product of uraninite in hydrothermal uranium deposits. It may also form directly from ianthinite. The mineral presents as a transparent to translucent yellow, lemon yellow, brownish yellow, or amber orthorhombic tabular crystals. Although over 20 other crystal forms have been noted; rarely in microcrystalline aggregates. When exposed to air schoepite converts over a short time to the metaschoepite form (UO • HO, ) within a few months of being exposed to ambient air.\n\nThe hardness is 2.5, density is 4.8 g/cm, and it streaks yellow. \n\nIt was first described from specimens from Shinkolobwe mine in Belgian Congo in 1923, several additional localities are known.\n\nSchoepite was named to honor Alfred Schoep (1881–1966), Professor of Mineralogy at the University of Ghent, Belgium.\n"}
{"id": "28865031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28865031", "title": "St. Joseph River (Michigan)", "text": "St. Joseph River (Michigan)\n\nSt. Joseph River may refer to the following streams in the U.S. state of Michigan:\n\n"}
{"id": "58019317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58019317", "title": "Top contributors to carbon dioxide emissions", "text": "Top contributors to carbon dioxide emissions\n\nThis is a collection of the results of various studies regarding the top contributors to carbon dioxide emissions, which is a major greenhouse gas claimed to be responsible for climate change.\n\nThe following table is the top 20 industrial carbon dioxide emitters according to a study conducted in 2017.\nThis is a list of the top USA companies responsible for carbon dioxide emissions, based on a study conducted by UMass, Amherst in 2013. \n\n"}
{"id": "297698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297698", "title": "Trinitarian formula", "text": "Trinitarian formula\n\nThe trinitarian formula is the phrase \"in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit\" (original Greek , , or in Latin ), or words to that form and effect referring to the three persons of the Christian Trinity. It is often followed by an \"Amen\".\n\nThese words are quoted from a command of the risen Jesus in the Great Commission: \"Go, therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit\" (Matthew 28:19); a small minority of other translations read, \"\"into\" the name\".\n\nAccording to the doctrines of Roman Catholicism, Eastern Orthodoxy, Anglicanism, and most forms of Protestantism, a baptism is not valid if the Trinitarian formula is not used in the administration of that sacrament. Consequently, they may not recognize religious communities that baptize without this formula – \"e.g.\" Unitarians, Branhamists, Frankists, Jehovah's Witnesses, and Oneness Pentecostals, all of whom deny the Trinity – as Christian religions. This is also the case with baptisms within The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS church). Although LDS members baptize with the same Trinitarian formula, they reject the Nicene Trinitarian conception and regard the three Persons of the Trinity as being distinct personages united not in substance, but in dominion and purpose. Other faiths (Frankists, Oneness Pentecostals and Branhamists in particular) use the formula \"In the name of Jesus Christ\" (based on Acts 2:38) for baptism, and in turn re-baptize converts who were first baptized under the Trinitarian formula, sometimes claiming that such persons would not have been previously aware that \"Jesus is the Lord\".\n\nLikewise, converts to Trinitarian denominations from Mormonism and other nontrinitarian denominations have to be baptized in the name of the (Nicene) Trinity.\n\nTogether with baptism, the Trinitarian formula is used in other prayers, rites, liturgies, and sacraments. One of its most common uses apart from baptism is when Roman Catholics, Eastern and Oriental Orthodox, Anglicans, Lutherans, Methodists, and others make the sign of the cross while reciting the formula.\n\nSome scholars of the Greek New Testament and of the historical Jesus, both liberal and conservative, regard the trinitarian formula as an early Christian elaboration. Biblical scholars from the controversial Jesus Seminar, a group of textual critics (including figures like Robert W. Funk, John Dominic Crossan, Marcus Borg, Bruce D. Chilton, and John S. Kloppenborg), have said that the whole of Matthew chapter 28 is the result of later editorial work on the Gospels and was never uttered by Jesus or his immediate disciples. Luke Timothy Johnson, a frequent critic of the methodologies of the Jesus Seminar, says in his book \"The Writings of the New Testament: An Interpretation\" that his research affirms a view of Matthew 28:19 as apocryphal.\n\nWhile denying that Jesus spoke the formula, these scholars acknowledge that the verse does represent Trinitarian ideas in the early Christian church. Most Christians belong to denominations that recognize church history as at least partially inspired by the Holy Spirit, so they tend to see the formula as valid even if not spoken by Jesus himself. However, the formula does not necessarily endorse the specific Nicene Trinitarian doctrine adopted at the 4th-century Council of Nicea and elaborated upon by later councils, and does not necessarily show that 1st-century Christians believed in the mysterious unity, equality, or co-eternity of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.\n\nOther scholars have challenged the work of the Jesus Seminar, arguing that those working on the project began with a conclusion and worked to justify it through their research and eisegesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "85730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85730", "title": "Voltumna", "text": "Voltumna\n\nIn Etruscan mythology, Voltumna or Veltha was the chthonic (relating to or inhabiting the underworld) deity, who became the supreme god of the Etruscan pantheon, the \"deus Etruriae princeps\", according to Varro. Voltumna's cult was centered in Volsini (modern-day Orvieto) a polis of the Etruscan Civilization of central Italy.\n\nThe bond of the twelve Etruscan \"populi\" was renewed annually at the sacred grove of Fanum Voltumnae, the sanctuary of Voltumnus sited near Volsinii (present day Bolsena), which was mentioned by Livy. At the Fanum Voltumnae \"ludi\" were held, the precise nature of which, whether athletic or artistic, is unknown.\n\nIn the Roman Forum, near the Temple of Castor and Pollux stood a shrine dedicated to Voltumna in the Vicus Tuscus.\nHe was the equivalent of the Roman Vertumnus.\n\n\n"}
