{"id": "218840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218840", "title": "Abuse of process", "text": "Abuse of process\n\nAbuse of process is a cause of action in tort arising from one party making misusing or perversion of regularly issued court process (civil or criminal) not justified by the underlying legal action. It is a common law intentional tort. It is to be distinguished from malicious prosecution, another type of tort that involves misuse of the public right of access to the courts.\n\nThe elements of a valid cause of action for abuse of process in most common law jurisdictions are as follows: (1) the existence of an ulterior purpose or motive underlying the use of process, and (2) some act in the use of the legal process not proper in the regular prosecution of the proceedings. Abuse of process can be distinguished from malicious prosecution, in that abuse of process typically does not require proof of malice, lack of probable cause in procuring issuance of the process, or a termination favorable to the plaintiff, all of which are essential to a claim of malicious prosecution. \"Process,\" as used in this context, includes not only the \"service of process,\" i.e. an official summons or other notice issued from a court, but means any method used to acquire jurisdiction over a person or specific property that is issued under the official seal of a court. Typically, the person who abuses process is interested only in accomplishing some improper purpose that is collateral to the proper object of the process and that offends justice, such as an unjustified arrest or an unfounded criminal prosecution. Subpoenas to testify, attachments of property, executions on property, garnishments, and other provisional remedies are among the types of \"process\" considered to be capable of abuse.\n\nThe principles which led to a finding of an abuse of process in the UK were stated in \"Johnson v Gore Wood & Co\" by Lord Bingham.\n\nA cause of action for abuse of process is similar to the action for malicious prosecution in that both actions are based on and involve the improper use of the courts and legal systems. The primary difference between the two legal actions is that malicious prosecution concerns the malicious or wrongful commencement of an action, while, on the other hand, abuse of process concerns the improper use of the legal process after process has already been issued and a suit has commenced. In abuse of process, the legal process is misused for some purpose which is considered improper under the law. Thus technically, the service of process itself—in the form of a summons—could be considered abuse of process under the right circumstances, e.g. fraudulent or malicious manipulation of the process itself, but in malicious prosecution, the wrongful act is the actual filing of the suit itself for improper and malicious reasons. As noted above, the three requirements of malice, lack of probable cause in the issuance of the process, and a termination of the prior proceeding favorable to the plaintiff, are essential elements for malicious prosecution. Most jurisdictions do not require any of these three elements in order to make out a prima facie case for abuse of process.\n\nA cause of action for abuse of process may lie in situations where a criminal proceeding is brought against a defendant for improper motives. For example, in \"Lader v. Benkowitz\", a pleading was held to state a good cause of action for abuse of process when it alleged that defendant hotel owner had threatened to have the plaintiff arrested on a warrant issued at the behest of the defendant on a charge of disorderly conduct.\n\nThe allegedly improper motive was the hotel owner's underlying purpose of compelling plaintiff to pay a bill owed for plaintiff's alleged rental of a room in defendant's hotel. It was claimed that through the unlawful use of the warrant and threat of arrest, the defendant was able to obtain the sum of money allegedly owed by plaintiff. In denying defendant's motion to dismiss, the court admonished that it was sufficient to show that regularly issued process had been used to accomplish an improper purpose in order to set forth a cause of action for abuse of process.\n\nThe fact that the plaintiff had yielded to defendant's threat to have her arrested under the warrant did not diminish the cause of action, because it was clear that the plaintiff actually had been arrested for the purpose of compelling her to pay the cost of the room.\n\n"}
{"id": "5106007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5106007", "title": "Agonism", "text": "Agonism\n\nAgonism (from Greek ἀγών \"agon\", \"struggle\") is a political theory that emphasizes the potentially positive aspects of certain (but not all) forms of political conflict. It accepts a permanent place for such conflict, but seeks to show how people might accept and channel this positively. For this reason, agonists are especially concerned with debates about democracy. The tradition is also referred to as agonistic pluralism.\n\nAgonism is opposed to a strand in the Marxist conception of politics known as \"materialism\". Marx would have agreed with the agonists that society had always been full of conflict, when he wrote: \"The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles\". He also thought that the causes of conflict were inescapable features of present—i.e., capitalist—society. But, in his view, history would develop in such a way as to eventually destroy capitalism, and replace it with a harmonious society—which was his conception of communism. Especially during the 1960s and 1970s, many people, academics included, subscribed to a roughly Marxist analysis. Since then, some of those people have come to the view that the \"materialist conception of history\" does not give sufficient reason for hope about a harmonious society to come. Chantal Mouffe and Ernesto Laclau are amongst those who have come to agonism from a background in Marxism and the social movements of the middle part of the last century.\n\nChantal Mouffe says, \"I use the concept of agonistic pluralism to present a new way to think about democracy that is different from the traditional liberal conception of democracy as a negotiation among interests and is also different from the model that is currently being developed by people like Jürgen Habermas and John Rawls. While they have many differences, Rawls and Habermas have in common the idea that the aim of the democratic society is the creation of a consensus, and that consensus is possible if people are only able to leave aside their particular interests and think as rational beings. However, while we desire an end to conflict, if we want people to be free we must always allow for the possibility that conflict may appear and to provide an arena where differences can be confronted. The democratic process should supply that arena.\"\n\nAgonism is not simply the undifferentiated celebration of antagonism:\nBonnie Honig, an advocate of agonism, writes: \"to affirm the perpetuity of the contest is not to celebrate a world without points of stabilisation; it is to affirm the reality of perpetual contest, even within an ordered setting, and to identify the affirmative dimension of contestation\".\n\nThe work of Theodor Adorno and Michel Foucault have also invoked conceptions of agonism and the agon in a more critical sense beyond that of political counter-hegemony. Although this usage of Agonism has been largely ignored it has been explored at some length by Claudio Colaguori in \"Agon Culture: Competition, Conflict and the Problem of Domination\". For Colaguori, \"the agon is literally the arena of competition, the scene of contest, and the locus of adversarial conflict. The philosophy of agonism affirms the idea that transcendence, truth, and growth are generated from the outcome of the contest...the concept of agonism is often understood in an affirmative sense as the generative principle of economy, society and even natural ecology and personal growth... The ambivalent character of agonism is that it is often seen as a mode of transcendence, while its instrumental relation to the mode of destruction is rarely acknowledged\". Agonism forms part of the instituted social order where society \"produces and reproduces itself precisely from the interconnection of the antagonistic interests of its members\" (Adorno, 1974).\n\nFor Adorno, agonism is also about the \"theodicy of conflict\" where opponents \"want to annihilate one another... to enter the agon, each the mortal enemy of each\" (Minima Moralia). Adorno also sees agonism as the underlying principle in Hegel's dialectic of history where \"dialectics (growth through conflict) is the ontology of the wrong state of things. The right state of things would be free of it: neither a system nor a contradiction\" (Negative Dialectics). Colaguori reconstructs the concept of the agon to invoke this critical, destructive aspect as a way of extending Adorno's critique of modern domination and identify how the normalization and naturalization of conflict is used as an ideology to justify various forms of domination and subjugation. The agonistic ideology that has been appropriated by popular culture for example makes use of agonistic themes to celebrate competition as the wellspring of life in such a way as to normalize \"a military definition of reality\" (C. W. Mills).\n\nThe critical conception of agonism developed by Adorno and Foucault emphasizes how aspects of competition can be utilized to reinforce the project of domination that is evident in the geopolitics of modernity. Colaguori suggests that a critical conception of agonism can be applied to the study of \"numerous forms of social conflict in gender, class and race relations where the competitive mode of interaction prevails in the formation of social hierarchies based on competition as a form of exclusion\". Colaguori further states that, \"after 100 years of technological progress, human societies are trapped in a perpetual dynamic of conflict and crisis, with modernization at a standstill. While this dialectic of development and destruction has been analysed from political and economic perspectives, Agon Culture offers an analysis of the human condition through an examination of the way in which the cultural ideology of competition operates as a mode of rationality that underpins the order of domination.\"\n\nThe science fiction novel \"Lady of Mazes\" by Karl Schroeder depicts a post-human future where \"agonistics\" is the ruling principle of the solar system. The story explains agonistics as \"You can compete, and you can win, but you can never win once-and-for-all\". A character gives two examples of agonism: a presidency with term limits, and laws aimed at preventing corporate monopolies.\n"}
{"id": "35856806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35856806", "title": "Anne Henrietta Martin", "text": "Anne Henrietta Martin\n\nAnne Henrietta Martin (September 30, 1875 in Empire City, Reno, Nevada – April 15, 1951 in Carmel, California) (pseudonym, Anne O'Hara; nickname, Little Governor Anne) was a suffragist, pacifist, and author from the state of Nevada. Her main achievement was taking charge of the state legislation that gave women of Nevada the right to vote. She was the first head of the department of history of the University of Nevada (1897-1901) And was active in the suffrage movement in England in 1909-1911, working with Emmeline Pankhurst. She was president of the Nevada equal franchise society in 1912, and the first national chairman of the National Woman's Party in 1916. She was the first woman to run for the United States Senate; She lost twice, in 1918 and 1920.\n\nMartin was the daughter of William O'Hara Martin, of Irish descent, who served as a Nevada State Senator, and her mother, Louise Stadtmuller Martin, was Bavarian. She attended Bishop Whitaker's School for Girls in Reno. Anne attended the University of Nevada (1891-1894), where she earned a degree in History. She earned a second B.A. in 1896 and an M.A. in History in 1897 from Stanford University.\n\nIn 1897, Martin established the University of Nevada's department of history. After two years in the department, she left to study at Columbia University, Chase's Art School, University of London, and University of Leipzig; but returned to the department in 1901–1903. During her leave from the university, Martin recommended the Board of Regents replace her with Jeanne Wier, a friend of hers from Stanford who was just finishing her degree.\n\nMartin returned from Europe in 1901 to attend her father's funeral. Her father's death gave her a revelation, \"suddenly made a feminist of me! . . . I found that I stood alone in my family against a man-controlled world.\" Martin traveled in Europe and Asia and experienced the women's revolution in England between 1909 and 1911, she became a Fabian Socialist, and wrote short stories and political articles, occasionally under the pen name of Anne O'Hara. Martin was arrested in 1910 over an issue of trying to enfranchise British women. Her friend from Stanford, Lou Henry Hoover, sent husband, Herbert Hoover, to pay Martin's bail, but Frederick Pethick-Lawrence had already taken care of that.[1]\n\nAfter returning to Nevada in the fall of 1911, she became president of the Nevada Equal Franchise Society in February 1912 and organized a campaign over sparsely populated deserts that convinced male voters to enfranchise women on November 3, 1914. This success led to her representation of the national movement as a speaker and executive committee member of the National American Woman Suffrage Association and the Congressional Union. Martin helped organize voting women in the West in 1916 to challenge Democrats. She was one of the Silent Sentinels, National Woman's Party women who picketed for suffrage in front of the White House on July 14, 1917; as a result, she was sentenced to Occoquan Workhouse, but was pardoned less than a week later by President Woodrow Wilson.\n\nIn 1918, representing Nevada, Martin was the first American woman to run for the US Senate.[2][3] Martin's campaigns focused on illuminating how women could act as a positive influence in the political world. Her platforms focused on providing better working conditions for men and women and nationalization of railroads and public utilities alienated women suffragists.\nBetween her 1918 and 1920 campaigns Martin wrote a series of articles and essays and in these essays Martin urges women to form autonomous political organizations.\n\nMartin moved to Carmel, California in 1921, and recuperated from a heart attack in 1930.[1] In the 1940s, she received an honorary Doctorate of Laws from the University of Nevada (1945); and wrote two articles for the Encyclopædia Britannica (Josephine Butler, 1944 edition; and White Slavery, 1948 edition). Martin died in Carmel in 1951.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51530754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51530754", "title": "Arcadie (webcomic)", "text": "Arcadie (webcomic)\n\nArcadie is an English webcomic created by Dutch artist Ties Wijnker. Described in its tagline as \"Comics for people,\" \"Arcadie\" revolves around a broad range of subjects, often dealing with the conditions and experiences of individual characters within modern life. Recurrent themes include irony, technology, entertainment, boredom, alienation, and fantasy. Many of the comics contain absurd or surrealist characters and premises, and they often lack a clear plot or traditional punchline.\n\n\"Arcadie\" features self-contained comics, with characters and settings changing per comic. They are organized in a single-page format, with the amount of panels per comic ranging from three to several dozen. Every comic comes with an additional short text placed under it, elaborating on its ideas. The artwork consists of digital linework and coloring with little shading, producing a minimalist aesthetic.\n"}
{"id": "21347657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21347657", "title": "Authoritarianism", "text": "Authoritarianism\n\nAuthoritarianism is a term political scientists use for a worldview that values orderliness and authority, and distrusts outsiders and social change. As a form of government, it is characterized by strong central power and limited political freedoms. Individual economic or personal freedoms are subordinate to the state and there is no constitutional accountability under an authoritarian regime. Juan Linz's influential 1964 description of authoritarianism characterized authoritarian political systems by four qualities:\n\nLinz distinguished new forms of authoritarianism from personalistic dictatorships and totalitarian states, taking Francoist Spain as an example. Unlike personalistic dictatorships, new forms of authoritarianism have institutionalized representation of a variety of actors (in Spain's case, including the military, the Catholic Church, Falange, monarchists, technocrats and others). Unlike totalitarian states, the regime relies on passive mass acceptance rather than popular support. Some scholars also mention the emergence of a different type of regime - the hybrid regime - in the post-Cold War era.\n\nSeveral subtypes of authoritarian regimes have been identified by Linz and others. Linz identified the two most basic subtypes as traditional authoritarian regimes and bureaucratic-military authoritarian regimes:\n\nLinz also has identified three other subtypes of authoritarian regime: corporatist or organic-statistic, racial and ethnic \"democracy\" and post-totalitarian.\n\nAuthoritarian regimes are also sometimes subcategorized by whether they are personalistic or populist. Personalistic authoritarian regimes are characterized by arbitrary rule and authority exercised \"mainly through patronage networks and coercion rather than through institutions and formal rules\". Personalistic authoritarian regimes have been seen in post-colonial Africa. By contrast, populist authoritarian regimes \"are mobilizational regimes in which a strong, charismatic, manipulative leader rules through a coalition involving key lower-class groups\". Examples include Argentina under Perón, Egypt under Nasser and Venezuela under Chávez and Maduro.\n\nAuthoritarianism is characterized by highly concentrated and centralized power maintained by political repression and the exclusion of potential challengers. It uses political parties and mass organizations to mobilize people around the goals of the regime. Adam Przeworski has theorized that \"authoritarian equilibrium rests mainly on lies, fear and economic prosperity\".\n\nAuthoritarianism also tends to embrace the informal and unregulated exercise of political power, a leadership that is \"self-appointed and even if elected cannot be displaced by citizens' free choice among competitors\", the arbitrary deprivation of civil liberties and little tolerance for meaningful opposition.\n\nA range of social controls also attempt to stifle civil society, while political stability is maintained by control over and support of the armed forces, a bureaucracy staffed by the regime and creation of allegiance through various means of socialization and indoctrination.\n\nAuthoritarian political systems may be weakened through \"inadequate performance to demands of the people\". Vestal writes that the tendency to respond to challenges to authoritarianism through tighter control instead of adaptation is a significant weakness and that this overly rigid approach fails to \"adapt to changes or to accommodate growing demands on the part of the populace or even groups within the system\". Because the legitimacy of the state is dependent on performance, authoritarian states that fail to adapt may collapse.\n\nAuthoritarianism is marked by \"indefinite political tenure\" of the ruler or ruling party (often in a one-party state) or other authority. The transition from an authoritarian system to a more democratic form of government is referred to as democratization.\n\nJohn Duckitt suggests a link between authoritarianism and collectivism, asserting that both stand in opposition to individualism. Duckitt writes that both authoritarianism and collectivism submerge individual rights and goals to group goals, expectations and conformities.\n\nTotalitarianism is an extreme version of authoritarianism. Authoritarianism primarily differs from totalitarianism in that social and economic institutions exist that are not under governmental control. Building on the work of Yale political scientist Juan Linz, Paul C. Sondrol of the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs has examined the characteristics of authoritarian and totalitarian dictators and organized them in a chart:\n\nSondrol argues that while both authoritarianism and totalitarianism are forms of autocracy, they differ in \"key dichotomies\":\nCompared to totalitarianism, \"the authoritarian state still maintains a certain distinction between state and society. It is only concerned with political power and as long as that is not contested it gives society a certain degree of liberty. Totalitarianism, on the other hand, invades private life and asphyxiates it\". Another distinction is that \"authoritarianism is not animated by utopian ideals in the way totalitarianism is. It does not attempt to change the world and human nature\". Carl Joachim Friedrich writes that \"a totalist ideology, a party reinforced by a secret police, and monopoly control of ... industrial mass society\" are the three features of totalitarian regimes that distinguish them from other autocracies.\n\nAuthoritarianism and democracy are not fundamentally opposed to one another, as it is possible for democracies to possess authoritarian elements. An illiberal democracy (or procedural democracy) is distinguished from liberal democracy (or substantive democracy) in that illiberal democracies lack features such as the rule of law, protections for minority groups and an independent judiciary.\n\nA further distinction that liberal democracies have rarely made war with one another; research has extended the theory and finds that more democratic countries tend to have few wars (sometimes called militarized interstate disputes) causing fewer battle deaths with one another and that democracies have far fewer civil wars.\n\nSome commentators, such as Seymour Martin Lipset, believed that low-income authoritarian regimes have certain technocratic \"efficiency-enhancing advantages\" over low-income democracies, helping authoritarian regimes generate development. Morton H. Halperin, Joseph T. Siegle and Michael M. Weinstein (2005) counter this belief, arguing that the evidence has shown that there is no \"authoritarian advantage\" and that there is a \"democratic advantage\" instead. Halperin et al. argue that democracies \"realize superior development performance\" over authoritarianism. They point out that poor democracies are more likely to have steadier economic growth and less likely to experience economic and humanitarian catastrophes than authoritarian regimes; that civil liberties act as a curb on corruption and misuse of resources; and that democracies are more adaptable. Halperin point out that the vast majority of refugee crises and financial catastrophes occur in authoritarian regimes.\n\nStudies suggest that several health indicators (life expectancy and infant and maternal mortality) have a stronger and more significant association with democracy than they have with GDP per capita, size of the public sector or income inequality. Prominent economist Amartya Sen has theorized that no functioning liberal democracy has ever suffered a large-scale famine.\n\nResearch shows that the democratic nations have much less democide or murder by government. Those were also moderately developed nations before applying liberal democratic policies. Research by the World Bank suggests that political institutions are extremely important in determining the prevalence of corruption and that parliamentary systems, political stability and freedom of the press are all associated with lower corruption. One study has concluded that terrorism is most common in nations with intermediate political freedom. The nations with the least amount of terrorism are the most and least democratic nations.\n\nAndrew J. Nathan notes that \"regime theory holds that authoritarian systems are inherently fragile because of weak legitimacy, overreliance on coercion, overcentralization of decision making, and the predominance of personal power over institutional norms...Few authoritarian regimes—be they communist, fascist, corporatist, or personalist—have managed to conduct orderly, peaceful, timely, and stable successions\". One exception to this general trend is the endurance of the authoritarian rule of the Chinese Communist Party, which has been unusually resilient among authoritarian regimes. Nathan posits that this can be attributed to four factors: (1) \"the increasingly norm-bound nature of its succession politics\"; (2) \"the increase in meritocratic as opposed to factional considerations in the promotion of political elites\"; (3) \"the differentiation and functional specialization of institutions within the regime\"; and (4) \"the establishment of institutions for political participation and appeal that strengthen the CCP's legitimacy among the public at large\".\n\nAccording to a study by Brandt and Henry, there is a direct correlation between the rates of gender inequality and the levels of authoritarian ideas in the male and female populations. It was found that in countries with less gender equality where individualism was encouraged and men occupied the dominant societal roles, women were more likely to support traits such as obedience which would allow them to survive in an authoritarian environment and less likely to encourage ideas such as independence and imagination. In countries with higher levels of gender equality, men held less authoritarian views. It is theorized that this occurs due to the stigma attached to individuals who question the cultural norms set by the dominant individuals and establishments in an authoritarian society as a way to prevent the psychological stress caused by the active ostracizing of the stigmatized individuals.\n\nThere is no precise definition of authoritarianism, but several annual measurements are attempted, including Freedom House’s annual Freedom in the World report.\n\nThe following is a non-exhaustive list of examples of states which are currently (or frequently) characterized as authoritarian:\n\n\nExamples of states which were historically authoritarian include\n\nBoth World War II (ending in 1945) and the later Dissolution of the Soviet Union (1991) resulted in the replacement of authoritarian regimes by either democratic regimes or regimes that were less authoritarian.\n\nWorld War II saw the defeat of the Axis powers by the Allied powers. All the Axis powers — Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and the Empire of Japan — had totalitarian or authoritarian governments, and two of the three were replaced by governments based on democratic constitutions. The Allied powers were an alliance of Democratic states and (later) the Communist Soviet Union. At least in Western Europe the initial post-war era embraced pluralism and freedom of expression in areas that had been under control of authoritarian regimes. The memory of fascism and nazism was denigrated. The new Federal Republic of Germany banned its expression. In reaction to the centralism of the Nazi state, for example, the new constitution of West Germany (Federal Republic of Germany) exercised \"separation of powers\" and placed \"law enforcement firmly in the hands\" of the sixteen \"Länder\" or states of the republic, not with the federal German government (at least not at first).\n\nCulturally there was also a strong sense of anti-authoritarianism based on anti-fascism in Western Europe. This was attributed to the active resistance from occupation and to fears arising from the development of superpowers. Anti-authoritarianism also became associated with countercultural and bohemian movements such as the Beat Generation in the 1950s, the hippies in the 1960s and punks in the 1970s.\n\nIn South America, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, Chile and Uruguay moved away from dictatorships to democracy between 1982 and 1990.\n\nWith the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and Soviet Union in 1991, the other authoritarian/totalitarian \"half\" of the Allied Powers of WWII collapsed. This led not so much to revolt against authority in general, but to the belief that authoritarian states (and state control of economies) were outdated. \nThe idea that \"liberal democracy was the final form toward which all political striving was directed\", became very popular in Western countries and was celebrated in Francis Fukuyama's book \"The End of History and the Last Man\". According to Charles H. Fairbanks, Jr., \"all the new states that stumbled out of the ruins of the Soviet bloc, except Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, seemed indeed to be moving toward democracy in the early 1990s,\" as where the countries of East Central Europe and the Balkans.\n\nIn late 2010, the \"Arab Spring\" arose in response to unrest over economic stagnation but also in opposition to oppressive authoritarian regimes, first in Tunisia and spreading to Libya, Egypt, Yemen, Syria and Bahrain, and elsewhere. Regimes were toppled in Tunisia Libya, Egypt, and Yemen, and other countries saw riots, civil wars or insurgencies.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2015 observers noted what some called a \"democratic recession\" (although some — Steven Levitsky and Lucan Way — have disputed this theory). \nIn 2018 Freedom House declared that from 2006 to 2018, \"113 countries\" around the world showed \"a net decline\" in \"political rights and civil liberties\" while \"only 62\" experienced \"a net improvement.\"\n\nWriting in 2018, U.S. political journalist David Frum stated: \nThe hopeful world of the very late 20th century—the world of NAFTA and an expanding NATO; of the World Wide Web 1.0 and liberal interventionism; of the global spread of democracy under leaders such as Václav Havel and Nelson Mandela—now looks battered and delusive.\"\nMichael Ignatieff wrote that Fukuyama's idea of liberalism vanquishing authoritarianism \"now looks like a quaint artifact of a vanished unipolar moment\", and Fukuyama himself expressed concern. By 2018 only one Arab Spring uprising — in Tunisia — resulted in a transition to constitutional democratic governance, and a \"resurgence of authoritarianism and Islamic extremism\" in the region was dubbed the \"Arab Winter\".\n\nExplanations offered for the new spread of authoritarianism by supporters include excessive immigration into European and Western countries, and the \"primary and existential fear\" of the \"surrender\" by liberal democracy of \"national sovereignty and independence\". Others credit the downside of globalization, and the success of the Beijing Consensus, i.e. the authoritarian model of the People's Republic of China. In at least one country, (the U.S.) factors blamed for the growth of authoritarianism include the Financial crisis of 2007–2008 and slower real wage growth; and social media's elimination of \"gatekeepers\" of knowledge, so that a large fraction of the population considers to be opinion what were once \"viewed as verifiable facts” – everything from the danger of global warming to the preventing the spread of disease through vaccination.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3118908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3118908", "title": "Bo Mya", "text": "Bo Mya\n\nBo Mya ( ; born Htee Moo Kee; 20 January 1927 – 24 December 2006) was a Karen rebel leader born in Papun District, which is in present-day Karen State, Myanmar. He was a long-standing chairman of the Karen National Union (KNU), a political organisation of the Karen people, from 1976 to 2000. He stepped down to become vice-chairman in 2004, and retired in 2004 from all public offices, due to poor health.\n\nBo Mya was among a significant number of Karens who joined the British — specifically in Bo Mya's case, Force 136 — during World War II, with whom he fought the Japanese from the East Dawna hills in 1944 to 1945.\n\nAfter the Karens declared independence from Burma in 1949, Bo Mya quickly rose to a position of pre-eminence in the Karen movement, earning a reputation as a hard and ruthless operator. Based at Manerplaw (\"victory field\") close to the Thai-Burma border, the KNU under his control, and its military wing the Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA), was probably the most successful of the ethnic rebel organisations fighting Rangoon in the Karen Conflict in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nBut by the mid-1990s, the tide was turning against him. A devout Christian of the Seventh-day Adventist Church, Bo Mya had always risked antagonising elements from within the predominantly Karen Buddhist and animist KNLA ranks. Although his defenders say he treated both Christians and Buddhists equally, the fact that the top positions of the KNU were filled almost entirely by Christians seemed to confirm the impression that he promoted the minority Christians' interests at the expense of those of the Buddhists and animists.\n\nIn late 1994, a group of KNLA soldiers broke away from the main army and formed the Democratic Karen Buddhist Army (DKBA). They allied themselves with the Burmese military, and led Burmese troops into Manerplaw in December 1994, leading to its capture — the biggest single setback to the Karens in their post-war history.\n\nSince then, the KNU and KNLA's effectiveness has gradually diminished. This was demonstrated at the beginning of 2004 when Bo Mya travelled to Yangon (Rangoon), his first visit to the capital in 50 years, to hold peace talks with Khin Nyunt, who was Prime Minister at the time.\n\nOn 24 December 2006, Bo Mya died in a hospital in Mae Sot, Thailand, near the eastern border of Myanmar. He had heart disease and diabetes and was unable to walk for three years before his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "304774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304774", "title": "Coincidence circuit", "text": "Coincidence circuit\n\nIn physics, a coincidence circuit is an electronic device with one output and two (or more) inputs. The output activates only when the circuit receives signals within a time window accepted as \"at the same time\" and in parallel at both inputs. Coincidence circuits are widely used in particle detectors and in other areas of science and technology. \n\nWalther Bothe shared the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1954 \"...for his discovery of the method of coincidence and the discoveries subsequently made by it.\" Bruno Rossi invented the electronic coincidence circuit for implementing the coincidence method.\n\nIn his Nobel Prize lecture, Bothe described how he had implemented the coincidence method in an experiment on Compton scattering in 1924. The experiment aimed to check whether Compton scattering produces a recoil electron simultaneously with the scattered gamma ray. Bothe used two point discharge counters connected to separate fibre electrometers and recorded the fibre deflections on a moving photographic film. On the film record he could discern coincident discharges with a time resolution of approximately 1 millisecond.\n\nIn 1929, Walther Bothe and Werner Kolhörster published the description of a coincidence experiment with tubular discharge counters that Hans Geiger and Wilhelm Müller had invented in 1928. The Bothe-Kohlhörster experiment showed penetrating charged particles in cosmic rays. They used the same mechanical-photographic method for recording simultaneous discharges which, in this experiment, signalled the passage of a charged cosmic ray particle through both counters and through thick wall of lead and iron that surrounded the counters. Their paper, entitled \"Das Wesen der Höhenstrahlung\"\", was published in the \"Zeitschrift für Physik\" v.56, p.751 (1929).\n\nBruno Rossi, at the age of 24, was in his first job as assistant in the Physics Institute of the University of Florence when he read the Bothe-Kohlhörster paper. It inspired him to begin his own research on cosmic rays. He fabricated Geiger tubes according to the published recipe, and he invented the first practical electronic coincident circuit. It employed several triode vacuum tubes, and could register coincident pulses from any number of counters with a tenfold improvement in time resolution over the mechanical method of Bothe. Rossi described his invention in a paper entitled \"Method of Registering Multiple Simultaneous Impulses of Several Geiger Counters\", published in \"Nature\" v.125, p.636 (1930). The Rossi coincidence circuit was rapidly adopted by experimenters around the world. It was the first practical AND circuit, precursor of the AND logic circuits of electronic computers. \n\nTo detect the voltage pulse produced by the coincidence circuit when a coincidence event occurred, Rossi first used earphones and counted the ‘clicks’, and soon an electro-mechanical register to count the coincidence pulses automatically. Rossi used a triple-coincidence version of his circuit with various configurations of Geiger counters in a series of experiments during the period from 1930 to 1943 that laid an essential part of the foundations of cosmic-ray and particle physics. \n\nAbout the same time, and independently of Rossi, Bothe devised a less practical electronic coincidence device. It used a single pentode vacuum tube and could register only twofold coincidences.\n\nThe main idea of 'coincidence detection' in signal processing is that if a detector detects a signal pulse in the midst of random noise pulses inherent in the detector, there is a certain probability, formula_1, that the detected pulse is actually a noise pulse. But if two detectors detect the signal pulse simultaneously, the probability that it is a noise pulse in the detectors is formula_2. Suppose formula_3. Then formula_4. Thus the chance of a false detection is reduced by the use of coincidence detection.\n\n"}
{"id": "15711838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15711838", "title": "Cornelian dilemma", "text": "Cornelian dilemma\n\nA Cornelian dilemma (\"dilemme cornélien\") (spelled in translation with two \"l\"'s i.e. \"Corneillian\") is a dilemma for someone to oblige and choose from each options, revealing a detrimental effect on anyone. It involves the character experiencing an inner conflict, forcing them to choose between love with honour or desire with duty. It is introduced in \"Le Cid\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35009581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35009581", "title": "Curse of knowledge", "text": "Curse of knowledge\n\nThe curse of knowledge is a cognitive bias that occurs when an individual, communicating with other individuals, unknowingly assumes that the others have the background to understand. For example, in a classroom setting, teachers have difficulty teaching novices because they cannot put themselves in the position of the student. A brilliant professor might no longer remember the difficulties that a young student encounters when learning a new subject. This curse of knowledge also explains the danger behind thinking about student learning based on what appears best to faculty members, as opposed to what has been verified with students.\n\nThe term \"curse of knowledge\" was coined in a 1989 \"Journal of Political Economy\" article by economists Colin Camerer, George Loewenstein, and Martin Weber. The aim of their research was to counter the \"conventional assumptions in such (economic) analyses of asymmetric information in that better-informed agents can accurately anticipate the judgement of less-informed agents\".\n\nSuch research drew from Baruch Fischhoff's work in 1975 surrounding hindsight bias, a cognitive bias that knowing the outcome of a certain event makes it seem more predictable than may actually be true. Research conducted by Fischhoff revealed that participants did not know that their outcome knowledge affected their responses, and, if they did know, they could still not ignore or defeat the effects of the bias. Study participants could not accurately reconstruct their previous, less knowledgeable states of mind, which directly relates to the curse of knowledge. This poor reconstruction was theorized by Fischhoff to be because the participant was \"anchored in the hindsightful state of mind created by receipt of knowledge\". This receipt of knowledge returns to the idea of the curse proposed by Camerer, Loewenstein, and Weber: a knowledgeable person cannot accurately reconstruct what a person, be it themselves or someone else, without the knowledge would think, or how they would act. In his paper, Fischhoff questions the failure to empathize with ourselves in less knowledgeable states, and notes that how well people manage to reconstruct perceptions of lesser informed others is a crucial question for historians and \"all human understanding\".\n\nThis research led the economists Camerer, Loewenstein, and Weber to focus on the economic implications of the concept and question whether the curse harms the allocation of resources in an economic setting. The idea that better-informed parties may suffer losses in a deal or exchange was seen as something important to bring to the sphere of economic theory. Most theoretical analyses of situations where one party knew less than the other focused on how the lesser-informed party attempted to learn more information to minimize information asymmetry. However, in these analyses, there is an assumption that better-informed parties can optimally exploit their information asymmetry when they, in fact, cannot. People cannot utilize their additional, better information, even when they should in a bargaining situation.\n\nFor example, two people are bargaining over dividing money or provisions. One party may know the size of the amount being divided while the other does not. However, to fully exploit his advantage, the informed party should make the same offer regardless of the amount of material to be divided. But informed parties actually offer more when the amount to be divided is larger. Informed parties are unable to ignore their better information, even when they should.\n\nA 1990 experiment by a Stanford graduate student, Elizabeth Newton, illustrated the curse of knowledge in the results of a simple task. A group of subjects were asked to \"tap\" out well known songs with their fingers, while another group tried to name the melodies. When the \"tappers\" were asked to predict how many of the \"tapped\" songs would be recognized by listeners, they would always overestimate. The curse of knowledge is demonstrated here as the \"tappers\" are so familiar with what they were tapping that they assumed listeners would easily recognize the tune.\n\nA study by Susan Birch and Paul Bloom involving Yale undergraduate students used the curse of knowledge concept to explain the idea that the ability of people to reason about another person's actions is compromised by the knowledge of the outcome of an event. The perception the participant had of the plausibility of an event also mediated the extent of the bias. If the event was less plausible, knowledge was not as much of a \"curse\" as when there was a potential explanation for the way the other person could act. However, a recent replication study found that this finding was not reliably reproducible across seven experiments with large sample sizes, and the true effect size of this phenomenon was less than half of that reported in the original findings. Therefore, it is suggested that \"the influence of plausibility on the curse of knowledge in adults appears to be small enough that its impact on real-life perspective-taking may need to be reevaluated.\"\n\nOther researchers have linked the curse of knowledge bias with false-belief reasoning in both children and adults, as well as theory of mind development difficulties in children.\n\nRelated to this finding is the phenomenon experienced by players of charades: The actor may find it frustratingly hard to believe that his or her teammates keep failing to guess the secret phrase, known only to the actor, conveyed by pantomime.\n\nIn the Camerer, Loewenstein and Weber's article, it is mentioned that the setting closest in structure to the market experiments done would be underwriting, a task in which well-informed experts price goods that are sold to a less-informed public. Investment bankers value securities, experts taste cheese, store buyers observe jewelry being modeled, and theater owners see movies before they are released. They then sell those goods to a less-informed public. If they suffer from the curse of knowledge, high-quality goods will be overpriced and low-quality goods underpriced relative to optimal, profit-maximizing prices; prices will reflect characteristics (e.g., quality) that are unobservable to uninformed buyers.\n\nThe curse of knowledge has a paradoxical effect in these settings. By making better-informed agents think that their knowledge is shared by others, the curse helps alleviate the inefficiencies that result from information asymmetries (a better informed party having an advantage in a bargaining situation), bringing outcomes closer to complete information. In such settings, the curse on individuals may actually improve social welfare.\n\nEconomists Camerer, Loewenstein, and Weber first applied the curse of knowledge phenomenon to economics, in order to explain why and how the assumption that better-informed agents can accurately anticipate the judgments of lesser-informed agents is not inherently true. They also sought to support the finding that sales agents who are better informed about their products may, in fact, be at a disadvantage against other, less-informed agents when selling their products. The reason is said to be that better-informed agents fail to ignore the privileged knowledge that they possess and are thus \"cursed\" and unable to sell their products at a value that more naïve agents would deem acceptable.\n\nIt has also been suggested that the curse of knowledge could contribute to the difficulty of teaching. The curse of knowledge means that it could be potentially ineffective, if not harmful, to think about how students are viewing and learning material by asking the perspective of the teacher as opposed to what has been verified by students. The teacher already has the knowledge that he or she is trying to impart, but the way that knowledge is conveyed may not be the best for those who do not already possess the knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "37188074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37188074", "title": "Daniel A. Vallero", "text": "Daniel A. Vallero\n\nDaniel A. Vallero is an American environmental author and scientist. He was born in East St. Louis, Illinois and grew up in Collinsville, Illinois. He received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in city and regional planning from Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville. He also earned a masters in civil and environmental engineering (environmental health sciences) from the University of Kansas and a PhD in civil and environmental engineering from Duke University with a thesis on \"“Dicarboximide Fungicide Flux to the Lower Troposphere from an Aquic Hapludult Soil”\n\nVallero is recognized internationally for advancing the state of environmental science and engineering, as an author, educator, engineer and scientific researcher. He has appeared on news and other shows, recently discussing plastic recycling on NBC's Today Show (http://www.today.com/video/today/51620316) and on MSNBC, and current state of ethics in research at universities. He began his professional career in the Kansas City regional office of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 1976 and has worked in numerous other scientific venues since then. He directed the Science, Technology and Human Values Program at Duke University from 1997 to 2005. Beginning in 2005, he has been adjunct Professor of Engineering Ethics at Duke University, with a joint appointment in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, and the Trinity School of Arts and Sciences. He held appointments also at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, North Carolina Central University, and as science staff member on Energy and Power Subcommittee of the United States House of Representatives.\nIn his books and other writings, Vallero has taken the systems view of living systems, As such he has bridged biomedical engineering with environmental engineering. He stresses the need to incorporate the social sciences into every engineering and design project. As a leader in engineering ethics, he has served the National Academy of Engineering as a member of the Online Ethics Committee and the Executive Board of the National Institute of Engineering Ethics. Vallero has also advised Sigma Xi, universities and other institutions on science and research ethics and the responsible conduct of research (RCR).\n\nVallero is editor for the Institution of Chemical Engineers' journal, \"Process Safety and Environmental Protection\", as well as the MDPI journal, \"Sustainability\". He is also the environmental engineering subject editor of the McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science & Technology and the \"McGraw-Hill Yearbook of Science & Technology\".\n\nVallero is a pioneer of green engineering and the application of life cycle analysis to engineering design. He was among the first to question the sustainability and ethics of using corn as a source of ethanol fuel. His reasoning was that current farming practice's dependence on fossil fuels needed to grow (including fertilizer and pesticides), harvest and ferment the corn is highly inefficient thermodynamically. The use of corn for fuel is especially problematic, since only the seed are used, not to mention the misuse of an important part of the global food supply. Vallero argued that other crops are much more sustainable, especially those that make use of the whole plant, including cellulosic material, like switchgrass (Panicum virgatum).\n\nIn the book, \"DUST: The inside Story of its Role in the September 11th Aftermath,\" the late American scientist Paul Lioy credited Vallero with leading the way to sampling of hazardous air pollutants in and around Ground Zero following the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center. Lioy collaborated with Vallero in establishing a protocol for characterizing exposure in risk assessments following such emergencies. Lioy and Vallero coined the term “5 R’s” to delineate how exposure assessment varies during the five stages following a disaster: 1. Rescue; 2. Recovery; 3. Reentry; 4. Restoration; and 5. Rehabitation.\n\nWith architect, Chris Brasier, Vallero coined the term \"synthovation,\" as a new design process for green engineering and green architecture. A combination of synthesis and innovation, sustainable design does not consider innovation to be an interruption (feedback loop) to the design process as in traditional \"concept to completion\" design. Rather, innovations are to be expected and integrated. Differing from the traditional step-wise process, synthovation is a spiral, dynamic, and continuously moving process toward completion of the design and throughout the life of the project, including end-of life recycling and design for disassembly, a component of design for environment (DfE), with innovations added along the way that will increase the sustainability of the project over its entire life cycle.\n\nIn her book, \"Hormone Deception\", Lindsey Berkson credits Vallero as among the first to apply exposure science to endocrine disruptors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23943446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23943446", "title": "David Reimer", "text": "David Reimer\n\nDavid Peter Reimer (born Bruce Peter Reimer; 22 August 1965 – 4 May 2004) was a Canadian man born male but reassigned as a girl and raised female following medical advice and intervention after his penis was accidentally destroyed during a botched circumcision in infancy.\n\nThe psychologist John Money oversaw the case and reported the reassignment as successful and as evidence that gender identity is primarily learned. The academic sexologist Milton Diamond later reported that Reimer's realization he was not a girl crystallized between the ages of 9 and 11 years and he transitioned to living as a male at age 15. Well known in medical circles for years anonymously as the \"John/Joan\" case, Reimer later went public with his story to help discourage similar medical practices. He committed suicide after suffering years of severe depression, financial instability, and a troubled marriage.\n\nReimer was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on August 22, 1965, the elder of identical twin boys. He was originally named Bruce and his identical twin was named Brian. Their parents were Janet and Ron Reimer, a couple of Mennonite descent who had married the previous December. At the age of six months, after concern was raised about how both of them urinated, the boys were diagnosed with phimosis. They were referred for circumcision at the age of seven months. On April 27, 1966, a urologist performed the operation using the unconventional method of electrocauterization, but the procedure did not go as doctors had planned, and Bruce's penis was burned beyond surgical repair. The doctors chose not to operate on Brian, whose phimosis soon cleared without surgical intervention.\n\nThe parents, concerned about their son's prospects for future happiness and sexual function without a penis, took him to Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore in early 1967 to see John Money, a psychologist who was developing a reputation as a pioneer in the field of sexual development and gender identity, based on his work with intersex patients. Money was a prominent proponent of the \"theory of gender neutrality\"—that gender identity developed primarily as a result of social learning from early childhood and that it could be changed with the appropriate behavioural interventions. The Reimers had seen Money being interviewed in February 1967 on the Canadian news program \"This Hour Has Seven Days\", during which he discussed his theories about gender.\n\nMoney and physicians working with young children born with intersex conditions believed that a penis could not be replaced but that a functional vagina could be constructed surgically. It was also the safest and most conventional pathway to take: Money told the parents it was what would be best for the boy. Money also claimed that Reimer would be more likely to achieve successful, functional sexual maturation as a girl than as a boy. For Money, a case where identical twin boys were involved where one could be raised as a girl provided a perfect test of his theories.\n\nMoney and the Hopkins team persuaded the baby's parents that sex reassignment surgery would be in Reimer's best interest. At the age of 22 months, baby Bruce underwent a bilateral orchidectomy, in which his testes were surgically removed and a rudimentary vulva was fashioned. Bruce was reassigned to be raised as female and given the name Brenda. Psychological support for the reassignment and surgery was provided by John Money, who continued to see Reimer annually for consultations and to assess the outcome. This reassignment was considered an especially valid test case of the social learning concept of gender identity for two reasons: First, Reimer's identical twin brother, Brian, made an ideal control because the brothers shared genes, family environments, and the intrauterine environment. Second, this was reputed to be the first reassignment and reconstruction performed on a male infant who had no abnormality of prenatal or early postnatal sexual differentiation.\n\nReimer said that Money forced the twins to rehearse sexual acts involving \"thrusting movements\", with David playing the bottom role. Reimer said that, as a child, he had to get \"down on all fours\" with his brother, Brian Reimer, \"up behind his butt\" with \"his crotch against\" his \"buttocks\". Reimer said that Money forced David, in another sexual position, to have his \"legs spread\" with Brian on top. Reimer said that Money also forced the children to take their \"clothes off\" and engage in \"genital inspections\". On at \"least one occasion\", Reimer said that Money took a photograph of the two children doing these activities. Money's rationale for these various treatments was his belief that \"childhood 'sexual rehearsal play was important for a \"healthy adult gender identity\".\n\nFor several years, Money reported on Reimer's progress as the \"John/Joan case\". Money wrote, \"The child's behavior is so clearly that of an active little girl and so different from the boyish ways of her twin brother.\" Notes by a former student at Money's lab state that, during the follow-up visits, which occurred only once a year, Reimer's parents routinely lied to lab staff about the success of the procedure. The twin brother, Brian, later developed schizophrenia.\n\nEstrogen was given during adolescence, inducing breast development.\n\nBy the age of 13 years, Reimer was experiencing suicidal depression and he told his parents he would take his own life if they made him see Money again. Finally, on March 14, 1980, Reimer's parents told him the truth about his gender reassignment, following advice from Reimer's endocrinologist and psychiatrist. At 14, having been informed of his past by his father, Reimer decided to assume a male gender identity, calling himself David. By 1987, Reimer had undergone treatment to reverse the reassignment, including testosterone injections, a double mastectomy, and two phalloplasty operations. On September 22, 1990, he married Jane Fontane and would adopt her three children.\n\nHis case came to international attention in 1997 when he told his story to Milton Diamond, an academic sexologist who persuaded Reimer to allow him to report the outcome in order to dissuade physicians from treating other infants similarly. Soon after, Reimer went public with his story and John Colapinto published a widely disseminated and influential account in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine in December 1997. The article won the National Magazine Award for Reporting.\n\nThis was later expanded into the \"New York Times\" best-selling biography \"As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl\" (2000), in which Colapinto described how—contrary to Money's reports—when living as Brenda, Reimer did not identify as a girl. He was ostracized and bullied by peers (who dubbed him \"cavewoman\"), and neither frilly dresses, nor female hormones made him feel female.\n\nIn addition to his difficult lifelong relationship with his parents, Reimer had to deal with unemployment and the death of his brother Brian from an overdose of antidepressants on July 1, 2002. On May 2, 2004, his wife Jane told him she wanted to separate. On the morning of May 4, 2004, Reimer drove to a grocery store's parking lot in his hometown of Winnipeg and took his own life by shooting himself in the head with a sawed-off shotgun. He was 38 years old. He was buried in St. Vital Cemetery in Winnipeg.\n\nFor the first thirty years after Money's initial report that the reassignment had been a success, Money's view of the malleability of gender became the dominant viewpoint among physicians and doctors, reassuring them that sexual reassignment was the correct decision in certain instances, resulting in thousands of sexual reassignments.\n\nThe report and subsequent book about Reimer influenced several medical practices, reputations, and even current understanding of the biology of gender. The case accelerated the decline of sex reassignment and surgery for unambiguous XY infants with micropenis, various other rare congenital malformations, or penile loss in infancy.\n\nReimer has often been mentioned by intactivists, who use him as an example of what could happen to a man if his parents decide to circumcise him at birth and the effect it can have on him throughout his life.\n\nColapinto's book described unpleasant childhood therapy sessions, implying that Money had ignored or concealed the developing evidence that Reimer's reassignment to female was not going well. Money's defenders have suggested that some of the allegations about the therapy sessions may have been the result of false memory syndrome and that the family was not honest with researchers.\n\nThe case has also been treated by Judith Butler in her 2004 book \"Undoing Gender\", which examines gender, sex, psychoanalysis, and the medical treatment of intersex people.\n\nThe BBC science series \"Horizon\" based two episodes on his life. \"The Boy Who Was Turned into a Girl\" aired in 2000 and \"Dr Money and the Boy with No Penis\" in 2004.\n\nHe was also mentioned in the 2017 documentary \"Gender Revolution: A Journey with Katie Couric\".\n\nAn episode of BBC Radio 4 Mind Changers, \nCase Study: John/Joan - The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl, discusses the impact on two competing psychological theories of nature vs. nurture.\n\nThe \"Chicago Hope\" episode \"Boys Will Be Girls\" (2000) was based on Reimer's life. The episode explored the theme of a child's right not to undergo sexual reassignment surgery without consent. The \"\" episode \"\" (2005) was based on David and Brian Reimer's lives and their treatment by Money.\n\n\"Hymn of the Medical Oddity\", a song by the Winnipeg-based indie rock band The Weakerthans, is about Reimer. The Ensemble Studio Theatre produced the play \"Boy\" (2016) inspired by Reimer's story.\n\n"}
{"id": "45482173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45482173", "title": "Double vector bundle", "text": "Double vector bundle\n\nIn mathematics, a double vector bundle is the combination of two compatible vector bundle structures, which contains in particular the double tangent formula_1 of a vector bundle formula_2 and the double tangent bundle formula_3.\n\nA double vector bundle consists of formula_4, where \n\nA double vector bundle morphism formula_11 consists of maps formula_12, formula_13, formula_14 and formula_15 such that formula_16 is a bundle morphism from formula_17 to formula_18, formula_19 is a bundle morphism from formula_20 to formula_21, formula_22 is a bundle morphism from formula_23 to formula_24 and formula_25 is a bundle morphism from formula_26 to formula_27.\n\nThe \"'flip\" of the double vector bundle formula_4 is the double vector bundle formula_29.\n\nIf formula_30 is a vector bundle over a differentiable manifold formula_31 then formula_32 is a double vector bundle when considering its secondary vector bundle structure.\n\nIf formula_31 is a differentiable manifold, then its double tangent bundle formula_34 is a double vector bundle.\n"}
{"id": "30615625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30615625", "title": "Edward Morrell", "text": "Edward Morrell\n\nEdward H. \"Ed\" Morrell (October 22, 1868 – November 10, 1946) was an accomplice to the Evans and Sontag gang that robbed the Southern Pacific Railroad in California's San Joaquin Valley in the 1890s. According to his memoir, \"The 25th Man\", the robberies were after revenge for the large railroad corporation's mistreatment of local ranchers of the San Joaquin Valley. Morrell was sentenced to life imprisonment in Folsom State Prison in 1894. He was eventually transferred to San Quentin (1899 at the latest), and pardoned in 1908. Five of his years were spent in solitary confinement; he was known as the Dungeon Man of San Quentin. Author Jack London championed his pardon; and Morrell became a frequent guest at London's Beauty Ranch in Glen Ellen, California. London used Morrell as a character in his 1915 novel \"The Star Rover\".\n\nMorrell had been subjected to severe physical abuse in prison. After his release, he lectured widely on his experiences and advocated prison reform. He lectured with former San Quentin prisoner and author, Donald Lowrie. Morrell's lectures included addresses to the California and Pennsylvania legislatures. He advocated the abolition of corporal punishment. In 1914, he wrote a one-act play, \"The Incorrigible\", based on his experiences (and one of his nicknames). In 1924, he published his memoirs, \"The 25th Man: The Strange Story of Ed. Morrell, the Hero of Jack London's Star Rover\".\n\nMorrell was born in Thomaston, Pennsylvania on October 22, 1868. He came to California in 1891. \"In his later years, he was a colorful habitue of Gower Gulch and a frequenter of Hollywood and Vine, the crony and pet of Hollywood film people.\" He died, age 78, in Los Angeles on November 10, 1946.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36903454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36903454", "title": "Effective altruism", "text": "Effective altruism\n\nEffective altruism is a philosophy and social movement that uses evidence and reasoning to determine the most effective ways to benefit others. Effective altruism encourages individuals to consider all causes and actions and to act in the way that brings about the greatest positive impact, based upon their values. It is the broad, evidence-based approach that distinguishes effective altruism from traditional altruism or charity.\n\nWhile a substantial proportion of effective altruists have focused on the nonprofit sector, the philosophy of effective altruism applies more broadly to prioritizing the scientific projects, companies, and policy initiatives which can be estimated to save lives, help people, or otherwise have the biggest benefit. People associated with the movement include philosopher Peter Singer, Facebook cofounder Dustin Moskovitz, Cari Tuna, Oxford-based researchers William MacAskill and Toby Ord, and professional poker player Liv Boeree.\n\nEffective altruism differs from other philanthropic practices because of its emphasis on quantitatively comparing charitable causes and interventions with the goal of maximizing certain human values. In this way it is similar to consequentialism, which some leaders of the movement explicitly endorse. The views of the philosopher Peter Singer in particular helped give rise to the effective altruist movement. Singer's book \"The Life You Can Save\" argued for the basic philosophy of effective giving, claiming that people have a moral imperative to donate more because of the existence of extreme poverty. In the book, Singer argued that people should use charity evaluators to determine how to make their donations most effective. Singer personally gives a third of his income to charity.\n\nEffective altruists reject the view that some lives are intrinsically more valuable than others. For example, they believe that a person in a developing country has equal value to a person in one's own community. In the 1972 essay 'Famine, Affluence, and Morality', Peter Singer wrote:\n\nIt makes no difference whether the person I can help is a neighbor's child ten yards away from me or a Bengali whose name I shall never know, ten thousand miles away. ... The moral point of view requires us to look beyond the interests of our own society. Previously ..., this may hardly have been feasible, but it is quite feasible now. From the moral point of view, the prevention of the starvation of millions of people outside our society must be considered at least as pressing as the upholding of property norms within our society.\n\nIn addition, many effective altruists think that future generations have equal moral value to currently existing people, and focus on reducing existential risks to humanity. Others believe that the interests of non-human animals should be accorded the same moral weight as similar interests of humans and work to prevent the suffering of animals, such as those raised in factory farms.\n\nAlthough there is a growing emphasis on effectiveness and evidence among nonprofits, this is usually done with a single cause in mind, such as education or climate change. Effective altruists, however, seek to compare the relative importance of different causes and choose one objectively, a concept that is usually referred to as cause neutrality. Effective altruists choose the highest priority causes based on whether activities in each cause area could efficiently advance broad goals, such as increasing human or animal welfare, and then focus their attention on interventions in high priority areas. \n\nSeveral organizations perform cause prioritization research to answer the question of what causes warrant the highest priority. Some common priorities among effective altruists include poverty in the developing world, the suffering of animals in factory farms, and risks to civilization, humans and planet Earth.\n\nEffective altruist organizations argue that some charities are far more effective than others, either because some do not achieve their goals or because of variability in the cost of achieving those goals. When possible, they seek to identify charities that are highly cost-effective, meaning that they achieve a large benefit for a given amount of money. For example, they select health interventions on the basis of their impact as measured by lives saved per dollar, quality-adjusted life years (QALY) saved per dollar, or disability-adjusted life years (DALY) averted per dollar. This measure of disease burden is expressed as the number of years lost due to ill-health, disability or early death.\n\nSome effective altruism organizations use randomized controlled trials as a primary form of evidence, as they are often considered to be at the highest level of strong evidence in healthcare research. \n\nEffective altruists argue that counterfactual reasoning is important to determine which course of action maximizes positive impact. Many people assume that the best way to help people is through direct methods, such as working for a charity or providing social services, but since charities and social-service providers usually can find people willing to work for them, effective altruists compare the amount of good somebody does in a conventional altruistic career to how much good would have been done had the next-best candidate been hired for the position. According to this reasoning, the impact of a career may be smaller than it appears.\n\nEffective altruist organizations make philanthropic recommendations for charities on the basis of their current funding need rather than merely evaluating the value of the work itself. Effective altruists avoid donating to organizations that have no \"room for more funding\" - those that face bottlenecks other than money which prevent them from spending the funds they have already accumulated or are expected to receive. For example, a medical charity might not be able to hire enough doctors or nurses to distribute the medical supplies it is capable of purchasing, or it might already be serving all of the potential patients in its market. There are many other organizations which \"do\" have room for more funding, so giving to one of those instead would produce real-world improvements.\n\nEffective altruism encourages significant charitable donation. Some believe it is a moral duty to alleviate suffering through donations if the purchases that one forgoes to donate do not cause comparable suffering to oneself, leading some of them to lead a frugal lifestyle in order to give substantially more than is typical in their society. Advocacy focuses on increasing the amount that people donate or identifying nonprofits that best meet the criteria of effective altruism.\n\nGiving What We Can (GWWC) is an organization which hosts a community of individuals who have pledged to donate at least 10% of their income for the remainder of their working lives to the causes that they believe are the most effective. GWWC was founded in November 2009 by Toby Ord, a moral philosopher at Oxford University, who lives on £18,000 ($27,000) per year and donates the remainder of his income to charity. As of 2018, more than 3,200 individuals have taken the pledge.\n\nThe Founders Pledge is a similar system run by the nonprofit Founders Forum for Good where startup founders make a legally binding commitment to donate at least 2% of their personal proceeds to charity in the event that they sell their business. By May 2016, one year after launch, 430 entrepreneurs had pledged, for an estimated total value of $134 million based on the founders' equity and the companies' valuation.\n\nEffective altruists argue that selection of one's career is an important determinant of the amount of good one does, both directly (through the services one provides to the world) and indirectly (through the ways one directs the money earned based on the career).\n\n80,000 Hours is an Oxford, UK-based organization in the effective altruism movement that writes articles and conducts one-on-one coaching to help people find careers with a positive social impact. It considers indirect methods of altruistic employment, such as earning a high salary in a conventional career and donating a portion of it, as well as direct practices, such as scientific research. It was co-founded by William MacAskill, who is also its current president.\n\nThe earning to give strategy has been proposed as a possible strategy for effective altruists. This strategy involves choosing to work in high-paying careers with the explicit goal of donating large sums of money to charity. Benjamin Todd and William MacAskill have argued that the marginal impact of one's potentially unethical actions in such a lucrative career would be small since someone else would have done them regardless, while the impact of donations would be large.\n\nDavid Brooks, a columnist for \"The New York Times\", criticized effective altruists who adopt the strategy. He wrote that most people who work in finance and other high-paying industries value money for selfish reasons and that being surrounded by these people will cause effective altruists to become less altruistic. In \"The Week\", Pascal-Emmanuel Gobry argued that the practice was \"unsettling\".\n\nEffective altruism aspires to be cause-neutral, meaning it is in principle open to helping in whichever areas allow them to do the most good. In practice, most people in the effective altruist movement have prioritized poverty, animal welfare, and risks of the long term future.\n\nGlobal poverty alleviation has been a focus of some of the earliest and most prominent organizations associated with effective altruism.\n\nCharity evaluator GiveWell was founded by Holden Karnofsky and Elie Hassenfeld in 2007 to address poverty and is currently a part of the effective altruism movement. GiveWell has argued that the value of donations is greatest for international poverty alleviation and developing world health issues, and its leading recommendations have been in these domains (Against Malaria Foundation, Schistosomiasis Control Initiative, Deworm the World Initiative, and (earlier) VillageReach in global health, and GiveDirectly for direct unconditional cash transfers).\n\nGiving What We Can is focused on causes related to the alleviation of global poverty and does in-house research evaluating causes and charities, but largely relies on research by other organizations such as GiveWell. The organization The Life You Can Save, which originated from the book by the same name, also focuses on global poverty.\n\nWhile much of the initial focus of effective altruism was on direct strategies such as health interventions and cash transfers, there has also been interest in more systematic social, economic, and political reform that would facilitate larger long-term poverty reduction. In September 2011, GiveWell announced GiveWell Labs, which was later renamed as the Open Philanthropy Project, for exploration of more speculative causes such as policy reform. It is a collaboration between GiveWell and Good Ventures, a philanthropic foundation founded by Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz and his wife Cari Tuna.\n\nMany effective altruists believe that reducing animal suffering should be a major priority and that, at the current margin, there are cost-effective ways of accomplishing this. Peter Singer quotes estimates by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the British organization Fishcount according to which 60 billion land animals are slaughtered and between 1 and 2.7 trillion individual fish are killed each year for human consumption. He argues that effective animal welfare altruists should prioritize factory farming over more overfunded popular causes such as pet welfare. Singer also argues that, if farm animals such as chickens are assigned even a modicum of consciousness, efforts to reduce factory farming (for example, by reducing global meat consumption) could be an even more underfunded and cost-effective way of reducing current global suffering than human poverty reduction. Philosophically, wild animal suffering may be an additional moral concern for effective altruists.\n\nAnimal Charity Evaluators (ACE) is an organization connected with the movement that evaluates and compares various animal charities based on their cost-effectiveness and transparency, particularly those that are tackling factory farming. Faunalytics (formerly the Humane Research Council) is an organization loosely affiliated with the movement that conducts independent research on important animal welfare topics, provides resources for advocates and donors, and works with animal protection organizations to evaluate their work.\n\nFocusing on the long-term future, some effective altruists believe that the total value of any meaningful metric (wealth, potential for suffering, potential for happiness, etc.) summed up over future generations, far exceeds the value for people living today. In particular, the importance of addressing existential risks such as dangers associated with biotechnology and advanced artificial intelligence is often highlighted and the subject of active research. Because it is often infeasible to use empirical science (such as randomized control trials) to measure the probability of an existential risk, researchers such as Nick Bostrom have used other methods such as expert opinion elicitation to estimate their importance.\n\nSome organizations that work actively on research and advocacy for improving the long term future, and have connections with the effective altruist movement, are the Future of Humanity Institute, Centre for the Study of Existential Risk, and Future of Life Institute. In addition, the Machine Intelligence Research Institute is focused on the more narrow mission of aligning advanced artificial intelligence.\n\nThe ideas behind effective altruism, such as consequentialism, have been present in practical ethics for a long time and have been reflected in the writings of philosophers such as Jeremy Bentham, John Stuart Mill, Peter Singer, and Peter Unger. A basic argument for altruism was defined in Singer's 1972 paper \"Famine, Affluence, and Morality\", in which he argued that people have an obligation to help those in need:\n\nIf it is in our power to prevent something bad from happening, without thereby sacrificing anything of comparable moral importance, then we ought, morally, to do it.\n\nHowever, the movement identifying with the name 'effective altruism' itself only came into being in the late 2000s as a community formed around the groups Giving What We Can and Givewell. It has since been growing in size. The Internet forum LessWrong also played a role in the development of the movement.\n\nEffective altruism conferences have been held since 2013. In 2015, Peter Singer published \"The Most Good You Can Do\", a book on effective altruism. The book describes the philosophy and social movement of effective altruism and argues in favor of it. In the same year William MacAskill published his book \"Doing Good Better: How Effective Altruism Can Help You Make a Difference\" which helped to further popularize the movement. MacAskill also created Giving What We Can and 80,000 Hours, both of which are part of the Centre for Effective Altruism.\n\nDavid Brooks has questioned whether children in distant countries should be treated as having equal moral value to nearby children. He claims that morality should be \"internally ennobling\". In the \"Stanford Social Innovation Review\", Ken Berger and Robert Penna of Charity Navigator condemned effective altruism's practice of \"weighing causes and beneficiaries against one another\", calling this \"moralistic, in the worst sense of the word\".\n\nPascal-Emmanuel Gobry warns about the \"measurement problem\", stating that some areas, such as medical research, or helping to reform third-world governance \"one grinding step at a time\", are hard to measure with controlled cost-effectiveness experiments and therefore risk being undervalued by the effective altruism movement. Jennifer Rubenstein also hypothesizes that effective altruism can be biased against causes that are not straightforward to measure.\n\nIn \"Jacobin\" magazine, Mathew Snow argued that effective altruism \"implores individuals to use their money to procure necessities for those who desperately need them, but says nothing about the system that determines how those necessities are produced and distributed in the first place\". Various critics have similarly objected to effective altruism on the basis of the fact that its proponents tend not to support political causes such as anti-capitalism that change \"the existing global institutional order\". Joshua Kissel has replied that anti-capitalism is compatible with effective altruism in theory, while adding that effective altruists and anti-capitalists have reason to be more sympathetic to each other. Brian Berkey has also argued that support for changing institutions such as capitalism does not contradict the principles of effective altruism, because effective altruism is open to any action that will have the greatest positive impact on the world, including the possibility of changing the existing global institutional order. Elizabeth Ashton argues that we are separately obligated to donate to effective aid charities and to reform the structures that are responsible for poverty.\n\n"}
{"id": "39094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39094", "title": "Extension (metaphysics)", "text": "Extension (metaphysics)\n\nIn metaphysics, extension signifies both 'stretching out' (Latin: \"extensio\") as well as later 'taking up space', and most recently, spreading one's internal mental cognition into the external world.\n\nThe history of thinking about \"extension\" can be traced back at least to Archytas' spear analogy for the infinity of space. How far can one's hand or spear stretch out until it reaches the edge of reality? “If I arrived at the outermost edge of the heaven, could I extend my hand or staff into what is outside or not? It would be paradoxical [given our normal assumptions about the nature of space] not to be able to extend it.”\n\nRené Descartes defined extension as the property of existing in more than one dimension, a property that was later followed up in Grassmann's n-dimensional algebra. For Descartes, the primary characteristic of matter is extension (\"res extensa\"), just as the primary characteristic of mind is thought (\"res cogitans\").\n\nThis can be contrasted with , where the Planck length, an almost unimaginably tiny quantity, represents reaching that distance scale where, it has been theorized, all measurement seemingly breaks down to that which can be subsumed at this scale, as distance only, or extension.\n\nJohn Locke, in \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", defined extension as \"only the Space that lies between the Extremities of those solid coherent Parts\" of a body. It is the space possessed by a body. Locke refers to the extension in conjunction with \"solidity\" and \"impenetrability,\" the other primary characteristics of matter.\n\nExtension also plays an important part in the philosophy of Baruch Spinoza, who says that substance (that which has extension) can be limited only by substance of the same sort, i.e. matter cannot be limited by ideas and vice versa. From this principle, he determines that substance is infinite. This infinite substance is what Spinoza calls God, or better yet nature, and it possesses both unlimited extension and unlimited consciousness.\n\n\"Infinite divisibility\" refers to the idea that extension, or quantity, when divided and further divided infinitely, cannot reach the point of zero quantity. It can be divided into very small or negligible quantity but not zero or no quantity at all. Using a mathematical approach, specifically geometric models, Gottfried Leibniz and Descartes discussed the infinite divisibility of extension. Actual divisibility may be limited due to unavailability of cutting instruments, but its possibility of breaking into smaller pieces is infinite.\n\n\"Compenetration\" refers to two or more extensions occupying the same space at the same time. This, according to scholastic philosophers, is impossible; according to this view, only spirits or spiritualized matter can occupy a place occupied already by an entity (matter or spirit)\n\nIn more recent work, philosophers David Chalmers and Andy Clark in 1998 published \"The Extended Mind.\" This has opened a wide channel of new research at the nexus of epistemology, philosophy of mind, cognitive and neuro-science, dynamic systems thinking, science, technology & innovation studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "18499038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18499038", "title": "Falling (sensation)", "text": "Falling (sensation)\n\nA sensation of falling occurs when the labyrinth or \"vestibular apparatus\", a system of fluid-filled passages in the inner ear, detects changes in acceleration. This sensation can occur when a person begins to fall, which in terms of mechanics amounts to a sudden acceleration increase from zero to roughly 9.8 m/s. If the body is in free fall (for example, during skydiving) with no other momenta (rotation, etc.) there is no falling sensation. This almost never occurs in real-life falling situations because when the faller leaves their support there are usually very significant quantities of residual momenta such as rotation and these momenta continue as the person falls, causing a sensation of dysphoria. The faller doesn't fall straight down but spins, flips, etc. due to these residual momenta and also due to the asymmetric forces of air resistance on his asymmetric body. While velocity continues to increase, the downward acceleration due to gravity remains constant. Increasing drag force may even cause a feeling of ascent.\n\nThe vestibular apparatus also detects spatial orientation with respect to visual input. A similar sensation of falling can be induced when the eyes detect rapid apparent motion with respect to the environment. This system enables people to keep their balance by signalling when a physical correction is necessary. Some medical conditions, known as balance disorders, also induce the sensation of falling. In the early stages of sleep, a falling sensation may be perceived in connection with a hypnic jerk, sometimes awaking the sleeper abruptly.\n\nThe vestibular system works with other sensorimotor systems in the body, such as the visual system (eyes) and skeletal system (bones and joints), to check and maintain the position of our body at rest or in motion. The vestibular apparatus functions by detecting forces that act upon bodies including gravity. There are two sections in the labyrinth that are helpful for accomplishing those tasks: the semicircular canals and the otolithic organs.\n\nA balance disorder is a condition that makes a person feel nausea, disorientation or dizziness, as if moving, spinning or falling even though steady. Balance disorder can be caused by medication, problems of inner ear or the brain.\n\nHypnic jerk, also called a boggie jerk, is a normal reaction that can be caused by anxiety, caffeine, a dream, or discomfort of sleeping. A hypnic jerk is the feeling triggered by a sudden muscle twitch, causing the feeling of falling while sleeping or dreaming. People normally experience hypnic jerks moments before the first stage of sleep. About 70% of people have experienced hypnic jerk. Hypnic jerks are most common in children, when dreams are considered the most simple.\n\nThere is no completely accurate explanation of this phenomenon, but most experts agree that as muscles begin to slacken right after one falls asleep, the brain senses these relaxation signals and misinterpret as one is falling down. Then the brain will send signals to muscles to keep the balance.\n\nStudies showed that there is a correlation between the frequency of hypnic jerks and anxiety. Fatigue, discomfort of the bed, highly intense exercise and stress might cause people to jerk during sleeping.\n\n"}
{"id": "8612764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8612764", "title": "Futures wheel", "text": "Futures wheel\n\nThe Future wheel is a method for graphical visualisation of direct and indirect future consequences of a particular change or development. It was invented by Jerome C. Glenn in 1971, when he was a student at the Antioch Graduate School of Education (now Antioch University New England).\nThe Futures Wheel is a way of organizing thinking and questioning about the future – a kind of structured brainstorming. (Jerome C. Glenn (1994) The Futures Wheel)\n\nTo start a Futures wheel the central term describing the change to evaluate is positioned in the center of the page (or drawing area). Then, events or consequences following directly from that development are positioned around it. Next, the (indirect) consequences of the direct consequences are positioned around the first level consequences. The terms may be connected as nodes in a tree (or even a web). The levels will often be marked by concentric circles.\n\nThe Futures wheel is usually used to organize thoughts about a future development or trend. With it, possible impacts can be collected and put down in a structured way. The use of interconnecting lines makes it possible to visualize interrelationships of the causes and resulting changes. Thus, Futures wheels can assist in developing multi-concepts about possible future development by offering a futures-conscious perspective and aiding in group brainstorming.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38103199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38103199", "title": "Gabriel Wagner", "text": "Gabriel Wagner\n\nGabriel Wagner (c. 1660 – c. 1717) was a radical German philosopher and materialist who wrote under the nom-de-plume Realis de Vienna. A follower of Spinoza and acquaintance of Leibniz, Wagner did not believe that the universe or bible were divine creations, and sought to extricate philosophy and science from the influence of theology. Wagner also held radical political views critical of the nobility and monarchy. After failing to establish lasting careers in cities throughout German-speaking Europe, Wagner died in or shortly after 1717.\n\nWagner studied under scholar Christian Thomasius in Leipzig, and in 1691 published a philosophical tract critical of Thomasius, \"Discourse and doubts in Christ: a Thomasian introduction to courtly philosophy.\" The tract satirically dubbed Thomasius the \"German Socrates\" and attracted attention within philosophical circles, including from Leibniz, who sought to contact Wagner. In the same year, after a dispute over rent, Wagner was expelled from university and imprisoned. Following his release, Wagner traveled in 1693 to Halle, where as a result of his increasingly libertine views he wholly broke with Thomasius, who by contrast was becoming more conservative. Moving to Berlin later in 1693 and then to Vienna, Wagner was in 1696 given a temporary position in Hamburg, which he lost due to his novel and sometimes polemical philosophical positions.\n\nReceiving support from Leibniz, Wagner worked for a time at the Herzog August Library in Wolfenbüttel; and maintained his contact with Leibniz. Leibniz wrote to Wagner in 1696, describing his admiration for Aristotle and opposing contemporary attacks on him, despite his view that Aristotle had discovered only a small portion of the discipline.\n\nOpposing his former mentor Thomasius' belief in the soul, Wagner published another text in 1707, \"Critique of Thomasian views on the nature of the soul.\" Theologian Johann Joachim Lange accused Wagner of Spinozist sympathies in 1710, and Wagner replied to these criticisms in the same year.\n\nThe last record of Wagner is found in Göttingen in 1717, where he came into conflict with historian of philosophy Christoph August Heumann. Wagner presumably died shortly thereafter.\n\nWagner believed that both education and philosophy should be modernized and focus on mathematics, physics and medicine, but not theology. In this regard he held that Germany had made more progress, while French, Italian and Spanish thinkers were overly influenced by followers of Aristotle, Galen and Ptolemy. Believing in intellectual freedom, Wagner was an admirer of German philosopher and professor Nicolaus Hieronymus Gundling, who favored \"atheistic\" classical Greek philosophy.\n\nAs articulated in his 1707 critique of Thomasius, Wagner did not believe in a soul, in divine providence, in the divinity of the bible, or in divine creation. He instead advocated reason, the most \"godly\" aspect of humankind, as a means of eradicating superstition. Wagner therefore celebrated advances in science facilitated by Descartes and even considered himself a Cartesian, though he disagreed with the latter's Christian metaphysical beliefs and even sought to undermine them. Deeply influenced by Spinoza, Wagner placed even greater emphasis on the importance of experimentation and empiricism in developing knowledge.\n\nWagner held radical political beliefs, advocating a restructuring of society according to more egalitarian principles and advocating greater emphasis on administration, education and culture. Reform of educational institutions was a particular concern of his writing. Wagner contested that aristocracy by birth was inferior to intellectual achievement. He also believed that Germany's fragmentary political system resulted in a weak and mismanaged government. In these beliefs Wagner was influenced by but disagreed with political thinkers such as Hugo Grotius, Thomas Hobbes and Niccolò Machiavelli. Much of Wagner's political and philosophical system was oriented, ultimately, towards securing religious, intellectual, and personal freedom, a project of the Enlightenment as a whole.\n\nWagner is known for his longstanding correspondence with Leibniz, and his erudition and innovative understanding of philosophy and natural sciences during his time, according to historian Cornelio Fabro.\n\nHistorian Jonathan Israel writes that Wagner is an important materialist philosopher of the late 17th and early 18th centuries, and an example of both radical philosophy and atheism produced by the growing university system of the period. Historian Frederick Beiser writes that Wagner and his fellow materialists in Germany, though they were less numerous than those found in France and England, developed mechanistic explanations for human behavior and raised fears of spreading religious skepticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1325686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1325686", "title": "Genidentity", "text": "Genidentity\n\nAs introduced by Kurt Lewin, genidentity is an \"existential relationship\" underlying the genesis of an object from one moment to the next. What we usually consider to be an object really consists of multiple entities, which are the phases of the object at various times. Two objects are not identical because they have the same properties in common, but because one has developed from the other. \nLewin introduced the concept in his 1922 Habilitationsschrift \"Der Begriff der Genese in Physik, Biologie und Entwicklungsgeschichte\". It is today perhaps the only surviving evidence of Lewin's influence on the philosophy of science. However, this concept never became an object of widespread discussion and debate in its own terms. Rather, it was extracted from its context by philosophers such as Rudolf Carnap, Hans Hermes, Hans Reichenbach, Adolph Grünbaum, and Bas van Fraassen who incorporated this concept into their own theories such as the topology of the universe or the axiomatization of mechanics. Lewin's idea was to compare and contrast the concept of genidentity in various branches of science, thereby laying bare the characteristic structure of each and making their classification possible in the first place. \n\nIn his thesis mentioned above, Lewin compares physics (in which he includes chemistry) and biology (which he divides into organic biology and evolutionary history of life). A comparison of this kind presupposes that it is possible to find equivalent notions in both sciences. According to Lewin, the concept of \"genidentity\" in the various sciences meets this requirement.\n\nLewin distinguishes between partial and total genidentity. This is due to the difficulty caused by parts of objects: for instance, an object might disintegrate into several pieces in the course of its development. As we follow such an object through time, only a small portion of it may remain. Lewin says that two objects existing at different times are partly genidentical if at least some part of the later object was present in the earlier object. By contrast, he says that two objects are totally genidentical if and only if at neither of the considered times there is any distinct object partially genidentical to one of the two objects concerned. \n\nLewin also introduces the idea of viewing physical bodies as links in a so-called \"development chain\". According to this approach, between two totally genidentical objects there always exists, at any intermediate time, an object totally genidentical with each. Thus genidentity implies the existence of an entire infinite series of intermediate objects. In this Lewin sees an analogy between physical objects and real numbers, as defined by so-called Dedekind cuts in the ordering of rational numbers. \n\nGenidentity so defined is postulated to have various characteristics, such as symmetry, transitivity, density, and continuity. When reviewed in the light of contemporary standards of logical precision, it becomes clear that Lewin had the correct intuition, even though he did not have the benefit of a highly developed terminology of definition theory or modern day symbolic logic. \n\nHowever, genidentity has never been explicitly discussed in the experimental sciences. Rather, it has always been a basic assumption hovering in the background, tacitly assumed. The credit for having made these assumptions explicit for the first time doubtlessly belongs to Kurt Lewin, usually renowned for his psychological work in the field of Gestalt psychology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1765100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1765100", "title": "George H. Smith", "text": "George H. Smith\n\nGeorge Hamilton Smith (born February 10, 1949, Japan) is an American author, editor, educator and speaker, known for his writings on atheism and libertarianism.\n\nSmith grew up mostly in Tucson, Arizona, and attended the University of Arizona for several years before leaving without a degree; he relocated to Los Angeles during 1971. With the help of libertarian editor Roy A. Childs, Jr., he secured a contract from Nash Publishing (then located in Los Angeles) to produce a book on atheism. The finished product was his first book, \"\" (1974).\n\nSmith has been teaching since the 1970s, first under the auspices of his own Forum for Philosophical Studies (with offices on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles), later under the auspices of the Cato Institute and the Institute for Humane Studies (IHS). For nearly twenty years, from the mid-1970s to the mid-1990s, he spent his summers teaching political philosophy and American political and intellectual history to university students at seminars sponsored by Cato Institute and IHS.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Smith worked for more than six years as the general editor of Knowledge Products, a Nashville-based company that produced educational audio recordings in philosophy, history, economics, and current affairs. During those years, in addition to his duties as editor, Smith was also the primary scriptwriter for Knowledge Products' \"Great Political Thinkers\" series. These recordings have been used widely in college classrooms.\n\nSince 1971, more than one hundred of Smith's articles and book reviews have appeared in a wide range of publications, including \"The New York Times\", the \"Arizona Daily Star\", \"Reason Magazine\", \"Free Inquiry\", \"The Humanist\", \"Inquiry\", \"Cato Policy Report\", \"Liberty\", \"The Voluntaryist\", Academic Associates \"Book News\", \"Journal of Libertarian Studies\", and \"Humane Studies Review\". He writes a weekly column on libertarian and classical liberal thought for Libertarianism.org, a website operated by Cato.\n\nHis published works often deal with such issues as capital punishment (which he opposes), anarchism, libertarianism, religious toleration, and atheism. He has written about William Wollaston, Herbert Spencer, Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, Ayn Rand and other figures. On December 31, 2007, George Smith provided a humorous \"qualified endorsement\" of Republican Party candidate Ron Paul via YouTube for libertarian voters, but also one that was consistent with his published writings on electoral politics.\n\nIn 2013 Cambridge University Press published his book \"The System of Liberty: Themes in the History of Classical Liberalism.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28391573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28391573", "title": "Hardcore Pawn", "text": "Hardcore Pawn\n\nHardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA (later Zodiak USA) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry and Loan, a family-owned and operated pawn shop and broker in Detroit, Michigan's 8 Mile Road corridor.\n\nThe series premiered on August 16, 2010, delivering two million viewers, setting a record as truTV's most-watched series premiere ever. Production was halted in 2014.\n\nAmerican Jewelry and Loan is owned by Les Gold, a third generation pawnbroker and businessman, and the grandson of a pawnbroker who once owned Sam's Loans, a now-defunct pawnshop on Michigan Avenue in Detroit. Les first opened American Jewelry at the Green Eight Shopping Center on 8 Mile Road in Oak Park in 1978, moving to its present location in 1993.\n\nIn 2011, American Jewelry expanded to its second location when it acquired Premier Jewelry and Loan in Pontiac; the new location was featured in the first few episodes of \"Hardcore Pawn\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s fifth season, and in two episodes of the sixth season, where Les's son and co-owner/employee Seth attempts to sell the Pontiac location behind Les's back.\n\nLes's only son, Seth, is an alumnus of the University of Michigan and has been a co-owner of American Jewelry since graduating from school. Seth handles the store's marketing division and claims that if it was not for him, the shop's only marketing campaign would be \"an ad in the Yellow Pages\". Les's daughter, Ashley, has a bachelor's degree in business administration from Michigan State University and earned her graduate diamond certification from the Gemological Institute of America. Ashley is a co-owner of American Jewelry and has been working there for more than fifteen years, although she took three years off at one point for maternity leave. The sibling rivalry between her and Seth is a common element of many episodes.\n\nThe show averaged 2.6 million viewers during its sixth season.\n\n\nThe show has been largely compared to similar reality program \"Pawn Stars\" on History, but in the vein of similar programs also on truTV (\"Operation Repo\" and \"Lizard Lick Towing\" for example), where it differs however is the focus being mainly on the human aspects of drama and interaction, rather than the actual significance of the items being brought into the shop.\n\nDue to similarities to \"Pawn Stars\", \"Hardcore Pawn\" has been described as simply being a knock-off and a capitalization on the breakout success of \"Pawn Stars\". Les Gold defends the show with claims that his show is a true representation of what a pawn shop does, focusing on the human element and showing that people are suffering tough times and need money for basic necessities like food and rent.\n\nAccording to Marc Juris of truTV, any similarities between the shows are coincidental. He also noted that \"Hardcore Pawn\" was in development for more than a year and two test episodes aired in December 2009. Regarding the initial identical time slot of Monday nights at 10 pm ET, opposite \"Pawn Stars\" at the time, Juris claimed the choice was made because \"Hardcore Pawn\" fit well with \"Operation Repo\". The second season debuted in December 2010, in the Tuesday at 9 pm ET timeslot.\n\nThe first season put an emphasis on the sad stories of people pawning their possessions and on the Golds' need to arm and otherwise protect themselves in dangerous Detroit. But this was too dark for television, and from the second season all mention of danger was dropped and pawn stories downplayed in favor of people selling unusual things and Les bargaining them down in price. Owner Les Gold said at the launch of the show that there would be no staged antics, products or characters on the show. However, \"New York Post\" writer Linda Stasi has opined that some situations in \"Hardcore Pawn\" are set up. For example, every episode features moments when Les, who is not normally behind a counter, happens to be there when someone brings in something unusual to sell. The shows are also obviously edited to follow a regular format, with every episode featuring two unruly customers being thrown out, one trip to the parking lot for a car or truck for sale, and usually some argument between Ashley and Seth.\n\nDuring season 9 truTV decided not to order more episodes because of the network's new direction. truTV was concentrating on comedy programming and it was decided that \"Hardcore Pawn\" did not relate properly to other programs in the network's schedule. No other television networks showed interest in the series, and production was halted in 2014.\n\nRepeats of \"Hardcore Pawn\" are also seen on occasion on TNT.\n\n\"Hardcore Pawn\" has generated two spinoffs:\n\n\nIn addition, Rich Pyle, one of the American Jewelry clerks who was featured in many episodes of \"Hardcore Pawn\", has since left the show and became host of another television series for the National Geographic Channel, \"Meltdown\", a series focusing on the recycling of precious metals. That series debuted on National Geographic on October 31, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2673103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2673103", "title": "History of atheism", "text": "History of atheism\n\nAtheism (derived from the Ancient Greek ἄθεος \"atheos\" meaning \"without gods; godless; secular; denying or disdaining the gods, especially officially sanctioned gods\") is the absence or rejection of the belief that deities exist. The English term was used at least as early as the sixteenth century and atheistic ideas and their influence have a longer history. Over the centuries, atheists have supported their lack of belief in gods through a variety of avenues, including scientific, philosophical, and ideological notions.\n\nIn the East, a contemplative life not centered on the idea of deities began in the sixth century BCE with the rise of Jainism, Buddhism, and various sects of Hinduism in India, and of Taoism in China. Within the astika (\"orthodox\") schools of Hindu philosophy, the Samkhya and the early Mimamsa school did not accept a creator deity in their respective systems. The Vedas of Ceylon admitted only the possibility that deities might exist but went no further. Neither prayers nor sacrifices were suggested in any way by the tribes.\n\nPhilosophical atheist thought began to appear in Europe and Asia in the sixth or fifth century BCE. Will Durant, in his \"The Story of Civilization\", explained that certain pygmy tribes found in Africa were observed to have no identifiable cults or rites. There were no totems, no deities, and no spirits. Their dead were buried without special ceremonies or accompanying items and received no further attention. They even appeared to lack simple superstitions, according to travelers' reports.\n\nIn the East, a contemplative life not centered on the idea of deities began in the sixth century BCE with the rise of Jainism, Buddhism, and various sects of Hinduism in India, and of Taoism in China. These religions offered a philosophic and salvific path not involving deity worship. Deities are not seen as necessary to the salvific goal of the early Buddhist tradition, their reality is explicitly questioned and often rejected. There is a fundamental incompatibility between the notion of gods and basic Buddhist principles, at least in some interpretations.\n\nWithin the astika (\"orthodox\") schools of Hindu philosophy, the Samkhya and the early Mimamsa school did not accept a creator-deity in their respective systems.\n\nThe principal text of the Samkhya school, the \"Samkhya Karika\", was written by Ishvara Krishna in the fourth century CE, by which time it was already a dominant Hindu school. The origins of the school are much older and are lost in legend. The school was both dualistic and atheistic. They believed in a dual existence of Prakriti (\"nature\") and Purusha (\"spirit\") and had no place for an Ishvara (\"God\") in its system, arguing that the existence of Ishvara cannot be proved and hence cannot be admitted to exist. The school dominated Hindu philosophy in its day, but declined after the tenth century, although commentaries were still being written as late as the sixteenth century.\n\nThe foundational text for the Mimamsa school is the \"Purva Mimamsa Sutras\" of Jaimini (c. third to first century BCE). The school reached its height c. 700 CE, and for some time in the Early Middle Ages exerted near-dominant influence on learned Hindu thought. The Mimamsa school saw their primary enquiry was into the nature of dharma based on close interpretation of the Vedas. Its core tenets were ritualism (orthopraxy), antiasceticism and antimysticism. The early Mimamsakas believed in an \"adrishta\" (\"unseen\") that is the result of performing karmas (\"works\") and saw no need for an Ishvara (\"God\") in their system. Mimamsa persists in some subschools of Hinduism today.\n\nThe thoroughly materialistic and antireligious philosophical Cārvāka school that originated in India with the Bārhaspatya-sūtras (final centuries BCE) is probably the most explicitly atheist school of philosophy in the region. The school grew out of the generic skepticism in the Mauryan period. Already in the sixth century BCE, Ajita Kesakambalin, was quoted in Pali scriptures by the Buddhists with whom he was debating, teaching that \"with the break-up of the body, the wise and the foolish alike are annihilated, destroyed. They do not exist after death.\"\nCārvākan philosophy is now known principally from its Astika and Buddhist opponents. The proper aim of a Cārvākan, according to these sources, was to live a prosperous, happy, productive life in this world. The \"Tattvopaplavasimha\" of Jayarashi Bhatta (c. 8th century) is sometimes cited as a surviving Carvaka text. The school appears to have died out sometime around the fifteenth century.\n\nThe nonadherence to the notion of a supreme deity or a prime mover is seen by many as a key distinction between Buddhism and other religions. While Buddhist traditions do not deny the existence of supernatural beings (many are discussed in Buddhist scripture), it does not ascribe powers, in the typical Western sense, for creation, salvation or judgement, to the \"gods\", however, praying to enlightened deities is sometimes seen as leading to some degree of spiritual merit.\n\nBuddhists accept the existence of beings in higher realms, known as \"devas\", but they, like humans, are said to be suffering in \"samsara\", and not particularly wiser than we are. In fact the Buddha is often portrayed as a teacher of the deities, and superior to them. Despite this they do have some enlightened Devas in the path of buddhahood.\n\nJains see their tradition as eternal. Organized Jainism can be dated back to Parshva who lived in the ninth century BCE, and, more reliably, to Mahavira, a teacher of the sixth century BCE, and a contemporary of the Buddha. Jainism is a dualistic religion with the universe made up of matter and souls. The universe, and the matter and souls within it, is eternal and uncreated, and there is no omnipotent creator deity in Jainism. There are, however, \"gods\" and other spirits who exist within the universe and Jains believe that the soul can attain \"godhood\"; however, none of these supernatural beings exercise any sort of creative activity or have the capacity or ability to intervene in answers to prayers.\n\nIn Western classical Antiquity, theism was the fundamental belief that supported the legitimacy of the state (the \"polis\", later the Roman Empire). Historically, any person who did not believe in any deity supported by the state was fair game to accusations of atheism, a capital crime. For political reasons, Socrates in Athens (399 BCE) was accused of being \"atheos\" (\"refusing to acknowledge the gods recognized by the state\").\n\nChristians in Rome were also considered subversive to the state religion and persecuted as atheists. Thus, charges of atheism, meaning the subversion of religion, were often used similarly to charges of heresy and impiety as a political tool to eliminate enemies.\n\nThe roots of Western philosophy began in the Greek world in the sixth century BCE. The first Hellenic philosophers were not atheists, but they attempted to explain the world in terms of the processes of nature instead of by mythological accounts. Thus lightning was the result of \"wind breaking out and parting the clouds\", and earthquakes occurred when \"the earth is considerably altered by heating and cooling\". The early philosophers often criticized traditional religious notions. Xenophanes (6th century BCE) famously said that if cows and horses had hands, \"then horses would draw the forms of gods like horses, and cows like cows\". Another philosopher, Anaxagoras (5th century BCE), claimed that the Sun was \"a fiery mass, larger than the Peloponnese\"; a charge of impiety was brought against him, and he was forced to flee Athens.\n\nThe first fully materialistic philosophy was produced by the atomists Leucippus and Democritus (5th century BCE), who attempted to explain the formation and development of the world in terms of the chance movements of atoms moving in infinite space.\n\nEuripides (480–406 BCE), in his play \"Bellerophon\", had the eponymous main character say:\n“Doth some one say that there be gods above?<br>\nThere are not; no, there are not. Let no fool,<br>\nLed by the old false fable, thus deceive you.”\nA fragment from the lost satyr play \"Sisyphus\", which has been attributed to both Critias and Euripides, claims that a clever man invented \"the fear of the gods\" in order to frighten people into behaving morally. This statement, however, originally did not mean that the gods themselves were nonexistent, but rather that their powers were a hoax.\n\nAristophanes (ca. 448–380 BCE), known for his satirical style, wrote in his play the \"Knights\":\n\"Shrines! Shrines! Surely you don't believe in the gods. What's your argument? Where's your proof?\"\n\nIn the fifth century BCE the Sophists began to question many of the traditional assumptions of Greek culture. Prodicus of Ceos was said to have believed that \"it was the things which were serviceable to human life that had been regarded as gods\", and Protagoras stated at the beginning of a book that \"With regard to the gods I am unable to say either that they exist or do not exist\".\n\nIn the late fifth century BCE, the Greek lyric poet Diagoras of Melos was sentenced to death in Athens under the charge of being a \"godless person\" (ἄθεος) after he made fun of the Eleusinian Mysteries, but he fled the city to escape punishment. Later writers have cited Diagoras as the \"first atheist\", but he was probably not an atheist in the modern sense of the word. Somewhat later (c. 300 BCE), the Cyrenaic philosopher Theodorus of Cyrene is supposed to have denied that gods exist and wrote a book \"On the Gods\" expounding his views.\n\nEuhemerus (c. 330–260 BCE) published his view that the gods were only the deified rulers, conquerors, and founders of the past, and that their cults and religions were in essence the continuation of vanished kingdoms and earlier political structures. Although Euhemerus was later criticized for having \"spread atheism over the whole inhabited earth by obliterating the gods\", his worldview was not atheist in a strict and theoretical sense, because he differentiated that the primordial deities were \"eternal and imperishable\". Some historians have argued that he merely aimed at reinventing the old religions in the light of the beginning of deification of political rulers such as Alexander the Great. Euhemerus' work was translated into Latin by Ennius, possibly to mythographically pave the way for the planned divinization of Scipio Africanus in Rome.\n\nThe most important Greek thinker in the development of atheism was Epicurus ( 300 BCE). Drawing on the ideas of Democritus and the Atomists, he espoused a materialistic philosophy according to which the universe was governed by the laws of chance without the need for divine intervention (see scientific determinism). Although Epicurus still maintained that the gods existed, he believed that they were uninterested in human affairs. The aim of the Epicureans was to attain \"ataraxia\" (\"peace of mind\") and one important way of doing this was by exposing fear of divine wrath as irrational. The Epicureans also denied the existence of an afterlife and the need to fear divine punishment after death.\n\nOne of the most eloquent expressions of Epicurean thought is Lucretius' \"On the Nature of Things\" (1st century BCE) in which he held that gods exist but argued that religious fear was one the chief cause of human unhappiness and that the gods did not involve themselves in the world.\n\nThe Epicureans also denied the existence of an afterlife and hence dismissed the fear of death.\n\nEpicureans were not persecuted, but their teachings were controversial and were harshly attacked by the mainstream schools of Stoicism and Neoplatonism. The movement remained marginal, and gradually died out by the end of the Roman Empire.\n\nIn medieval Islam, Muslim scholars recognized the idea of atheism and frequently attacked unbelievers, although they were unable to name any atheists. When individuals were accused of atheism, they were usually viewed as heretics rather than proponents of atheism. However, outspoken rationalists and atheists existed, one notable figure being the ninth-century scholar Ibn al-Rawandi, who criticized the notion of religious prophecy, including that of Muhammad, and maintained that religious dogmas were not acceptable to reason and must be rejected. Other critics of religion in the Islamic world include the physician and philosopher Abu Bakr al-Razi (865–925), the poet Al-Maʿarri (973–1057), and the scholar Abu Isa al-Warraq (fl. 9th century). Al-Maʿarri, for example, wrote and taught that religion itself was a \"fable invented by the ancients\" and that humans were \"of two sorts: those with brains, but no religion, and those with religion, but no brains.\"\n\nIn the European Middle Ages, no clear expression of atheism is known. The titular character of the Icelandic saga Hrafnkell, written in the late thirteenth century, says, \"I think it is folly to have faith in gods\". After his temple to Freyr is burnt and he is enslaved, he vows never to perform another sacrifice, a position described in the sagas as \"goðlauss\", \"godless\". Jacob Grimm in his \"Teutonic Mythology\" observes,\n\nIt is remarkable that Old Norse legend occasionally mentions certain men who, turning away in utter disgust and doubt from the heathen faith, placed their reliance on their own strength and virtue. Thus in the Sôlar lioð 17 we read of Vêbogi and Râdey \"â sik þau trûðu,\" \"in themselves they trusted\",\nciting several other examples, including two kings.\n\nIn Christian Europe, people were persecuted for heresy, especially in countries where the Inquisition was active. Prominent examples of dissent included the Cathers and the Waldensians. These sects, however antagonistic to the Church, are not examples of Atheism. While rebellions against the Church occurred, none could be considered exactly Atheist.\n\nAnother phenomenon in the Middle Ages was proofs of the existence of God. Both Anselm of Canterbury, and later, William of Ockham acknowledge adversaries who doubt the existence of God. Thomas Aquinas' five proofs of God's existence and Anselm's ontological argument implicitly acknowledged the validity of the question about God's existence. Frederick Copleston, however, explains that Thomas laid out his proofs not to counter atheism, but to address certain early Christian writers such as John of Damascus, who asserted that knowledge of God's existence was naturally innate in man, based on his natural desire for happiness. Thomas stated that although there is desire for happiness which forms the basis for a proof of God's existence in man, further reflection is required to understand that this desire is only fulfilled in God, not for example in wealth or sensual pleasure.\n\nThe charge of atheism was used to attack political or religious opponents. Pope Boniface VIII, because he insisted on the political supremacy of the church, was accused by his enemies after his death of holding (unlikely) positions such as \"neither believing in the immortality nor incorruptibility of the soul, nor in a life to come\".\n\nJohn Arnold's \"Belief and Unbelief in Medieval Europe\" discusses individuals who were indifferent to the Church and did not participate in faith practices. Arnold notes that while these examples could be perceived as simply people being lazy, it demonstrates that \"belief was not universally fervent\". Arnold enumerates examples of people not attending church, and even those who excluded the Church from their marriage. Disbelief, Arnold argues, stemmed from boredom. Arnold argues that while some blasphemy implies the existence of God, laws demonstrate that there were also cases of blasphemy that directly attacked articles of faith. Italian preachers in the fourteenth century also warned of unbelievers and people who lacked belief.\n\nDuring the time of the Renaissance and the Reformation, criticism of the religious establishment became more frequent in predominantly Christian countries, but did not amount to atheism, \"per se\".\n\nThe term \"athéisme\" was coined in France in the sixteenth century. The word \"atheist\" appears in English books at least as early as 1566.\nThe concept of atheism re-emerged initially as a reaction to the intellectual and religious turmoil of the Age of Enlightenment and the Reformation, as a charge used by those who saw the denial of god and godlessness in the controversial positions being put forward by others. During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the word 'atheist' was used exclusively as an insult; nobody wanted to be regarded as an atheist. Although one overtly atheistic compendium known as the \"Theophrastus redivivus\" was published by an anonymous author in the seventeenth century, atheism was an epithet implying a lack of moral restraint.\n\nAccording to Geoffrey Blainey, the Reformation in Europe had paved the way for atheists by attacking the authority of the Catholic Church, which in turn \"quietly inspired other thinkers to attack the authority of the new Protestant churches\". Deism gained influence in France, Prussia and England, and proffered belief in a noninterventionist deity, but \"while some deists were atheists in disguise, most were religious, and by today's standards would be called true believers\". The scientific and mathematical discoveries of such as Copernicus, Newton and Descartes sketched a pattern of natural laws that lent weight to this new outlook Blainey wrote that the Dutch philosopher Baruch Spinoza was \"probably the first well known 'semi-atheist' to announce himself in a Christian land in the modern era\". Spinoza had been expelled from his synagogue for his protests against the teachings of its rabbis and for failing to attend Saturday services. He believed that God did not interfere in the running of the world, but rather that natural laws explained the workings of the universe. In 1661 he published his \"Short Treatise on God\", but he was not a popular figure for the first century following his death: \"An unbeliever was expected to be a rebel in almost everything and wicked in all his ways\", wrote Blainey, \"but here was a virtuous one. He lived the good life and made his living in a useful way. . . . It took courage to be a Spinoza or even one of his supporters. If a handful of scholars agreed with his writings, they did not so say in public\".\n\nHow dangerous it was to be accused of being an atheist at this time is illustrated by the examples of Étienne Dolet, who was strangled and burned in 1546, and Giulio Cesare Vanini, who received a similar fate in 1619. In 1689 the Polish nobleman Kazimierz Łyszczyński, who had denied the existence of God in his philosophical treatise \"De non-existentia Dei\", was imprisoned unlawfully; despite Warsaw Confederation tradition and king Sobieski's intercession, Łyszczyński was condemned to death for atheism and beheaded in Warsaw after his tongue was pulled out with a burning iron and his hands slowly burned. Similarly in 1766, the French nobleman François-Jean de la Barre, was tortured, beheaded, and his body burned for alleged vandalism of a crucifix, a case that became a cause célèbre because Voltaire tried unsuccessfully to have the judgment reversed.\n\nThe English philosopher Thomas Hobbes (1588–1679) was also accused of atheism, but he denied it. His theism was unusual, in that he held god to be material. Even earlier, the British playwright and poet Christopher Marlowe (1563–1593) was accused of atheism when a tract denying the divinity of Christ was found in his home. Before he could finish defending himself against the charge, Marlowe was murdered.\n\nIn early modern times, the first explicit atheist known by name was the German-languaged Danish critic of religion Matthias Knutzen (1646–after 1674), who published three atheist writings in 1674.\n\nKazimierz Łyszczyński, a Polish philosopher (executed in 1689, following a hasty and controversial trial) demonstrated strong atheism in his work \"De non-existentia Dei\":\n\nWhile not gaining converts from large portions of the population, versions of deism became influential in certain intellectual circles. Jean Jacques Rousseau challenged the Christian notion that human beings had been tainted by sin since the Garden of Eden, and instead proposed that humans were originally good, only later to be corrupted by civilization. The influential figure of Voltaire, spread deistic notions of to a wide audience. \"After the French Revolution and its outbursts of atheism, Voltaire was widely condemned as one of the causes\", wrote Blainey, \"Nonetheless, his writings did concede that fear of God was an essential policeman in a disorderly world: 'If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him', wrote Voltaire\".\n\nArguably the first book in modern times solely dedicated to promoting atheism was written by French Catholic priest Jean Meslier (1664–1729), whose posthumously published lengthy philosophical essay (part of the original title: \"Thoughts and Feelings of Jean Meslier ... Clear and Evident Demonstrations of the Vanity and Falsity of All the Religions of the World\") rejects the concept of god (both in the Christian and also in the Deistic sense), the soul, miracles and the discipline of theology. Philosopher Michel Onfray states that Meslier's work marks the beginning of \"the history of true atheism\".\n\nBy the 1770s, atheism in some predominantly Christian countries was ceasing to be a dangerous accusation that required denial, and was evolving into a position openly avowed by some. The first open denial of the existence of God and avowal of atheism since classical times may be that of Baron d'Holbach (1723–1789) in his 1770 work, \"The System of Nature\". D'Holbach was a Parisian social figure who conducted a famous salon widely attended by many intellectual notables of the day, including Denis Diderot, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, David Hume, Adam Smith, and Benjamin Franklin. Nevertheless, his book was published under a pseudonym, and was banned and publicly burned by the Executioner. Diderot, one of the Enlightenment's most prominent \"philosophes\" and editor-in-chief of the Encyclopédie, which sought to challenge religious, particularly Catholic, dogma said, \"Reason is to the estimation of the \"philosophe\" what grace is to the Christian\", he wrote. \"Grace determines the Christian's action; reason the \"philosophe\"'s\". Diderot was briefly imprisoned for his writing, some of which was banned and burned.\n\nIn Scotland, David Hume produced a six volume history of England in 1754, which gave little attention to God. He implied that if God existed he was impotent in the face of European upheaval. Hume ridiculed miracles, but walked a careful line so as to avoid being too dismissive of Christianity. With Hume's presence, Edinburgh gained a reputation as a \"haven of atheism\", alarming many ordinary Britons.\nThe \"culte de la Raison\" developed during the uncertain period 1792–94 (Years I and III of the Revolution), following the September massacres, when Revolutionary France was rife with fears of internal and foreign enemies. Several Parisian churches were transformed into Temples of Reason, notably the Church of Saint-Paul Saint-Louis in the Marais. The churches were closed in May 1793 and more securely 24 November 1793, when the Catholic Mass was forbidden.\nBlainey wrote that \"atheism seized the pedestal in revolutionary France in the 1790s. The secular symbols replaced the cross. In the cathedral of Notre Dame the altar, the holy place, was converted into a monument to Reason...\" During the Terror of 1792–93, France's Christian calendar was abolished, monasteries, convents and church properties were seized and monks and nuns expelled. Historic churches were dismantled. The Cult of Reason was a creed based on atheism devised during the French Revolution by Jacques Hébert, Pierre Gaspard Chaumette, and their supporters. It was stopped by Maximilien Robespierre, a Deist, who instituted the Cult of the Supreme Being. Both cults were the outcome of the \"de-Christianization\" of French society during the Revolution and part of the Reign of Terror.\n\nThe Cult of Reason was celebrated in a carnival atmosphere of parades, ransacking of churches, ceremonious iconoclasm, in which religious and royal images were defaced, and ceremonies which substituted the \"martyrs of the Revolution\" for Christian martyrs. The earliest public demonstrations took place \"en province\", outside Paris, notably by Hébertists in Lyon, but took a further radical turn with the \"Fête de la Liberté\" (\"Festival of Liberty\") at Notre Dame de Paris, 10 November (20 Brumaire) 1793, in ceremonies devised and organised by Pierre-Gaspard Chaumette.\n\nThe pamphlet \"Answer to Dr. Priestley's Letters to a Philosophical Unbeliever\" (1782) is considered to be the first published declaration of atheism in Britain—plausibly the first in English (as distinct from covert or cryptically atheist works). The otherwise unknown William Hammon (possibly a pseudonym) signed the preface and postscript as editor of the work, and the anonymous main text is attributed to Matthew Turner (d. 1788?), a Liverpool physician who may have known Priestley. Historian of atheism David Berman has argued strongly for Turner's authorship, but also suggested that there may have been two authors.\n\nThe French Revolution of 1789 catapulted atheistic thought into political notability in some Western countries, and opened the way for the nineteenth century movements of Rationalism, Freethought, and Liberalism. Born in 1792, Romantic poet Percy Bysshe Shelley, a child of the Age of Enlightenment, was expelled from England's Oxford University in 1811 for submitting to the Dean an anonymous pamphlet that he wrote entitled, \"The Necessity of Atheism.\" This pamphlet is considered by scholars as the first atheistic tract published in the English language. An early atheistic influence in Germany was \"The Essence of Christianity\" by Ludwig Feuerbach (1804–1872). He influenced other German nineteenth century atheistic thinkers like Karl Marx, Max Stirner, Arthur Schopenhauer (1788–1860), and Friedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900).\n\nThe freethinker Charles Bradlaugh (1833–1891) was repeatedly elected to the British Parliament, but was not allowed to take his seat after his request to affirm rather than take the religious oath was turned down (he then offered to take the oath, but this too was denied him). After Bradlaugh was re-elected for the fourth time, a new Speaker allowed Bradlaugh to take the oath and permitted no objections. He became the first outspoken atheist to sit in Parliament, where he participated in amending the Oaths Act.\nIn 1844, Karl Marx (1818–1883), an atheistic political economist, wrote in his \"Contribution to the Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right\": \"Religious suffering is, at one and the same time, the expression of real suffering and a protest against real suffering. Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people.\" Marx believed that people turn to religion in order to dull the pain caused by the reality of social situations; that is, Marx suggests religion is an attempt at transcending the material state of affairs in a society—the pain of class oppression—by effectively creating a dream world, rendering the religious believer amenable to social control and exploitation in this world while they hope for relief and justice in life after death. In the same essay, Marx states, \"[m]an creates religion, religion does not create man\".\nFriedrich Nietzsche, a prominent nineteenth century philosopher, is well known for coining the aphorism \"\"God is dead\" \"(German: \"Gott ist tot\"); incidentally the phrase was not spoken by Nietzsche directly, but was used as a dialogue for the characters in his works. Nietzsche argued that Christian theism as a belief system had been a moral foundation of the Western world, and that the rejection and collapse of this foundation as a result of modern thinking (the \"death of God\") would naturally cause a rise in nihilism or the lack of values. While Nietzsche was staunchly atheistic, he was also concerned about the negative effects of nihilism on humanity. As such, he called for a re-evaluation of old values and a creation of new ones, hoping that in doing so humans would achieve a higher state he labeled the Overman (\"Übermensch\").\n\nAtheist feminism also began in the nineteenth century. Atheist feminists oppose religion as a main source of female oppression and gender inequality, believing that the majority of religions are sexist and oppressive to women.\n\nAtheism in the twentieth century found recognition in a wide variety of other, broader philosophies in the Western tradition, such as existentialism, Objectivism, secular humanism, nihilism, logical positivism, Marxism, anarchism, feminism, and the general scientific and rationalist movement. Neopositivism and analytical philosophy discarded classical rationalism and metaphysics in favor of strict empiricism and epistemological nominalism. Proponents such as Bertrand Russell emphatically rejected belief in God. In his early work, Ludwig Wittgenstein attempted to separate metaphysical and supernatural language from rational discourse. H. L. Mencken sought to debunk both the idea that science and religion are compatible, and the idea that science is a dogmatic belief system just like any religion.\n\nA. J. Ayer asserted the unverifiability and meaninglessness of religious statements, citing his adherence to the empirical sciences. The structuralism of Lévi-Strauss sourced religious language to the human subconscious, denying its transcendental meaning. J. N. Findlay and J. J. C. Smart argued that the existence of God is not logically necessary. Naturalists and materialists such as John Dewey considered the natural world to be the basis of everything, denying the existence of God or immortality.\n\nThe historian Geoffrey Blainey wrote that during the twentieth century, atheists in Western societies became more active and even militant, though they often \"relied essentially on arguments used by numerous radical Christians since at least the eighteenth century\". They rejected the idea of an interventionist God, and said that Christianity promoted war and violence, though \"the most ruthless leaders in the Second World War were atheists and secularists who were intensely hostile to both Judaism and Christianity\" and \"Later massive atrocities were committed in the East by those ardent atheists, Pol Pot and Mao Zedong\". Some scientists were meanwhile articulating a view that as the world becomes more educated, religion will be superseded.\n\nOften, the state's opposition to religion took more violent forms. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn documents widespread persecution, imprisonments and torture of believers in his seminal work \"The Gulag Archipelago\". Consequently, religious organizations, such as the Catholic Church, were among the most stringent opponents of communist regimes. In some cases, the initial strict measures of control and opposition to religious activity were gradually relaxed in communist states. Pope Pius XI followed his encyclicals challenging the new right-wing creeds of Italian Fascism (\"Non abbiamo bisogno\", 1931) and Nazism (\"Mit brennender Sorge\", 1937) with a denunciation of atheistic Communism in \"Divini redemptoris\" (1937).\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church, for centuries the strongest of all Orthodox Churches, was suppressed by the Soviet government. In 1922, the Soviet regime arrested the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church. Following the death of Vladimir Lenin, with his rejection of religious authority as a tool of oppression and his strategy of \"patently explain,\" Soviet leader Joseph Stalin energetically pursued the persecution of the Church through the 1920s and 1930s. Lenin wrote that every religious idea and every idea of God \"is unutterable vileness... of the most dangerous kind, 'contagion of the most abominable kind\". Many priests were killed and imprisoned. Thousands of churches were closed, some turned into hospitals. In 1925 the government founded the League of Militant Atheists to intensify the persecution. The regime only relented in its persecution following the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941. Bullock wrote that \"A Marxist regime was 'godless' by definition, and Stalin had mocked religious belief since his days in the Tiflis seminary\". His assault on the Russian peasantry, wrote Bullock, \"had been as much an attack on their traditional religion as on their individual holdings, and the defense of it had played a major part in arousing peasant resistance . . . \". In \"Divini Redemptoris\", Pius XI said that atheistic Communism being led by Moscow was aimed at \"upsetting the social order and at undermining the very foundations of Christian civilization\":\n\nThe central figure in Italian Fascism was the atheist Benito Mussolini. In his early career, Mussolini was a strident opponent of the Church, and the first Fascist program, written in 1919, had called for the secularization of Church property in Italy. More pragmatic than his German ally Adolf Hitler, Mussolini later moderated his stance, and in office, permitted the teaching of religion in schools and came to terms with the Papacy in the Lateran Treaty. Nevertheless, \"Non abbiamo bisogno\" condemned his Fascist movement's \"pagan worship of the State\" and \"revolution which snatches the young from the Church and from Jesus Christ, and which inculcates in its own young people hatred, violence and irreverence.\"\n\nThe Western Allies saw the war against Hitler as a war for \"Christian Civilisation\", while the atheist Stalin re-opened Russia's churches to steel the Soviet population in the battle against Germany. The Nazi leadership itself held a range of views on religion. Hitler's movement said it endorsed a form of Christianity stripped of its Jewish origins and certain key doctrines such as belief in the divinity of Christ. In practice his government persecuted the churches, and worked to reduce the influence of the Christianity on society. Richard J. Evans wrote that \"Hitler emphasised again and again his belief that Nazism was a secular ideology founded on modern science. Science, he declared, would easily destroy the last remaining vestiges of superstition [. . .] 'In the long run', [Hitler] concluded in July 1941, 'National Socialism and religion will no longer be able to exist together' [. . .] The ideal solution would be to leave the religions to devour themselves, without persecutions' \".\n\nParty membership was required for civil service jobs. The majority of Nazi Party members did not leave their churches. Evans wrote that, by 1939, 95 percent of Germans still called themselves Protestant or Catholic, while 3.5 percent were \"gottgläubig\" (lit. \"believing in god\") and 1.5 percent atheist. Most in these latter categories were \"convinced Nazis who had left their Church at the behest of the Party, which had been trying since the mid 1930s to reduce the influence of Christianity in society\". The majority of the three million Nazi Party members continued to pay their church taxes and register as either Roman Catholic or Evangelical Protestant Christians. \"Gottgläubig\" was a nondenominational Nazified outlook on god beliefs, often described as predominantly based on creationist and deistic views. Heinrich Himmler, who himself was fascinated with Germanic paganism, was a strong promoter of the \"gottgläubig\" movement and didn't allow atheists into the SS, arguing that their \"refusal to acknowledge higher powers\" would be a \"potential source of indiscipline\".\n\nAcross Eastern Europe following World War II, the parts of the Nazi Empire conquered by the Soviet Red Army, and Yugoslavia became one party Communist states, which, like the Soviet Union, were antipathetic to religion. Persecutions of religious leaders followed. The Soviet Union ended its truce against the Russian Orthodox Church, and extended its persecutions to the newly Communist Eastern bloc: \"In Poland, Hungary, Lithuania and other Eastern European countries, Catholic leaders who were unwilling to be silent were denounced, publicly humiliated or imprisoned by the Communists. Leaders of the national Orthodox Churches in Romania and Bulgaria had to be cautious and submissive\", wrote Blainey. While the churches were generally not as severely treated as they had been in the USSR, nearly all their schools and many of their churches were closed, and they lost their formally prominent roles in public life. Children were taught atheism, and clergy were imprisoned by the thousands.\n\nAlbania under Enver Hoxha became, in 1967, the first (and to date only) formally declared atheist state, going far beyond what most other countries had attempted—completely prohibiting religious observance and systematically repressing and persecuting adherents. Article 37 of the Albanian Constitution of 1976 stipulated, \"The state recognizes no religion, and supports atheistic propaganda in order to implant a scientific materialistic world outlook in people.\" The right to religious practice was restored with the fall of communism in 1991.\n\nFurther post-war communist victories in the East saw religion purged by atheist regimes across China, North Korea and much of Indo-China. In 1949, China became a Communist state under the leadership of Mao Zedong's Communist Party of China. China itself had been a cradle of religious thought since ancient times, being the birthplace of Confucianism and Daoism, and Buddhists having arrived in the first century AD. Under Mao, China became officially atheist, and though some religious practices were permitted to continue under State supervision, religious groups deemed a threat to order have been suppressed—as with Tibetan Buddhism from 1959 and Falun Gong in recent years. Today around two-fifths of the population claim to be nonreligious or atheist. Religious schools and social institutions were closed, foreign missionaries expelled, and local religious practices discouraged. During the Cultural Revolution, Mao instigated \"struggles\" against the Four Olds: \"old ideas, customs, culture, and habits of mind\". In 1999, the Communist Party launched a three-year drive to promote atheism in Tibet, saying intensifying propaganda on atheism is \"especially important for Tibet because atheism plays an extremely important role in promoting economic construction, social advancement and socialist spiritual civilization in the region\".\n\nIn India, E. V. Ramasami Naicker (Periyar), a prominent atheist leader, fought against Hinduism and the Brahmins for discriminating and dividing people in the name of caste and religion. This was highlighted in 1956 when he made the Hindu god Rama wear a garland made of slippers and made antitheistic statements.\n\nDuring this period, Christianity in the United States retained its popular appeal, and, wrote Blainey, the country \"was the guardian, militarily of the \"free world\" and the defender of its religion in the face of militant communism\". During the Cold War, wrote Thomas Aiello the United States often characterized its opponents as \"godless communists\", which tended to reinforce the view that atheists were unreliable and unpatriotic. Against this background, the words \"under God\" were inserted into the pledge of allegiance in 1954, and the national motto was changed from E Pluribus Unum to In God We Trust in 1956. However, there were some prominent atheist activists active at this time. Atheist Vashti McCollum was the plaintiff in a landmark 1948 Supreme Court case (\"McCollum v. Board of Education\") that struck down religious education in U.S. public schools. Madalyn Murray O'Hair was perhaps one of the most influential American atheists; she brought forth the 1963 Supreme Court case \"Murray v. Curlett\" which banned compulsory prayer in public schools. Also in 1963 she founded American Atheists, an organization dedicated to defending the civil liberties of atheists and advocating for the complete separation of church and state.\n\nThe early twenty-first century has continued to see secularism, humanism and atheism promoted in the Western world, with the general consensus being that the number of people not affiliated with any particular religion has increased. This has been assisted by non-profit organizations such as the Freedom From Religion Foundation in the United States (co-founded by Anne Nicol Gaylor and her daughter, Annie Laurie Gaylor, in 1976 and incorporated nationally in 1978, it promotes the separation of church and state), and the Brights movement, which aims to promote public understanding and acknowledgment of science through a naturalistic, scientific and irreligious worldview, defense of irreligious people's human, civil and political rights who share it, and their societal recognition. In addition, a large number of accessible antireligious, antitheist and secularist books, many of which have become bestsellers, have been published by scholars and scientists such as Sam Harris, Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett, Christopher Hitchens, Lawrence M. Krauss, Jerry Coyne, and Victor J. Stenger.\n\nThis period saw the rise of the \"New Atheism\", a label that has been applied, sometimes pejoratively, to outspoken critics of theism and religion, prompted by a series of essays published in late 2006, including \"The God Delusion\", \"\", \"God Is Not Great\", \"The End of Faith\", and \"Letter to a Christian Nation\". Richard Dawkins also propounds a more visible form of atheist activism which he light-heartedly describes as \"militant atheism\".\n\nAtheist feminism has also become more prominent in the 2010s. In 2012 the first \"Women in Secularism\" conference was held. Also, Secular Woman was founded on 28 June 2012 as the first national American organization focused on non-religious women. The mission of Secular Woman is to amplify the voice, presence, and influence of non-religious women. The atheist feminist movement has also become increasingly focused on fighting misogyny, sexism and sexual harassment within the atheist movement itself, especially since the upheaval following Michael Shermer's allegations of sexual assault and coverage of his violent behavior applied by James Randi.\n\nIn 2013 the first atheist monument on American government property was unveiled at the Bradford County Courthouse in Florida; it is a 1,500-pound granite bench and plinth inscribed with quotes by Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, and Madalyn Murray O'Hair.\n\nIn 2015, Madison, Wisconsin's common council amended their city's equal opportunity ordinance, adding atheism as a protected class in the areas of employment, housing, and public accommodations. This makes Madison the first city in America to pass an ordinance protecting atheists.\n\nOn 16 December 2016, Barack Obama signed into law the Frank R. Wolf International Religious Freedom Act, which amends the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 by specifically extending protection to non-theists as well as those who do not claim any particular religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52820398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52820398", "title": "Hurewicz space", "text": "Hurewicz space\n\nIn mathematics, a Hurewicz space is a topological space that satisfies a certain basic selection principle that generalizes σ-compactness. A Hurewicz space is a space in which for every sequence of open covers formula_1 of the space there are finite sets formula_2 such that every point of the space belongs to all but finitely many sets formula_3 .\n\nIn 1926, Witold Hurewicz introduced the above property of topological spaces that is formally stronger than the Menger property. He didn't know whether Menger's conjecture is true, and whether his property is strictly stronger than the Menger property, but he conjectured that in the class of metric spaces his property is equivalent to formula_4-compactness.\n\nHurewicz conjectured that in ZFC every Hurewicz metric space is σ-compact. Just, Miller, Scheepers, and Szeptycki proved that Hurewicz's conjecture is false, by showing that there is, in ZFC, a set of real numbers that is Menger but not σ-compact. Their proof was dichotomic, and the set witnessing the failure of the conjecture heavily depends on whether a certain (undecidable) axiom holds or not.\n\nBartoszyński and Shelah (see also Tsaban's solution based on their work ) gave a uniform ZFC example of a Hurewicz subset of the real line that is not σ-compact.\n\nHurewicz asked whether in ZFC his property is strictly stronger than the Menger property. In 2002, Chaber and Pol in unpublished note, using dichotomy proof, showed that there is a Hurewicz subset of the real line that is not Menger. In 2008, Tsaban and Zdomskyy gave a uniform example of a Hurewicz subset of the real line that is Menger but not Hurewicz.\n\nFor subsets of the real line, the Hurewicz property can be characterized using continuous functions into the Baire space formula_5. For functions formula_6, write formula_7 if formula_8 for all but finitely many natural numbers formula_9. A subset formula_10 of formula_5 is bounded if there is a function formula_12such that formula_13 for all functions formula_14. A subset of formula_5 is unbounded if it is not bounded. Hurewicz proved that a subset of the real line is Hurewicz iff every continuous image of that space into the Baire space is unbounded. In particular, every subset of the real line of cardinality less than the bounding number formula_16 is Hurewicz.\n\nLet formula_17 be a topological space. The Hurewicz game played on formula_17 is a game with two players Alice and Bob.\n\n1st round: Alice chooses an open cover formula_19 of formula_17. Bob chooses a finite set formula_21.\n\n2nd round: Alice chooses an open cover formula_22 of formula_17. Bob chooses a finite set formula_24.\n\netc.\n\nIf every point of the space formula_17 belongs to all but finitely many sets formula_3 , then Bob wins the Hurewicz game. Otherwise, Alice wins.\n\nA player has a winning strategy if he knows how to play in order to win the game (formally, a winning strategy is a function).\n\nA topological space is Hurewicz iff Alice has no winning strategy in the Hurewicz game played on this space.\n\nA Tychonoff space formula_17 is Hurewicz iff for every compact space formula_29 containing the space formula_17, and a formula_27 subset G of formula_29 containing the space formula_17, there is a formula_4-compact set formula_35 with formula_36.\n\n"}
{"id": "1116997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1116997", "title": "Instrumental and intrinsic value", "text": "Instrumental and intrinsic value\n\nThe word \"value\" is both a verb and a noun, each with multiple meanings. But its root meaning always involves social judgments of qualities such as goodness, worth, truth, justice, beauty. The word names either the rational criterion applied when judging, or results of judging, the presence of such qualities. \n\nHumans attribute qualities to objects, beliefs, and behaviors as they identify means that \"work\" to carry on social life, and ends that are \"right\" for social life itself. Qualities that \"work\" are judged by the instrumental criterion, and are said to possess instrumental value. Qualities that are \"right\" in themselves are judged by the intrinsic criterion, and are said to possess intrinsic value. The value of a smart phone or a scientific theory is instrumental. The value of the Ten Commandments or the US Constitution is intrinsic.\n\nThe noun value sometimes names the instrumental or intrinsic criterion being applied. More often, it names things judged to possess instrumental or intrinsic value. Modern scholars have refined these ancient common-sense meanings of value. Sociologist Max Weber applied the labels instrumental and intrinsic value to two patterns of social action. Here are his original definitions, followed by current labels for the two criteria from the \"Oxford Handbook of Value Theory\".\n\nThe assumption that humans apply two distinct criteria of judgment creates problems. People ask, \"How can we know which objects have which qualities?\" Things that \"work\" may appear obvious, but can stop working or have bad consequences. Things that are \"right\" are not-at-all obvious and are often controversial. This article samples usages of instrumental and intrinsic value and some disputes they generate. Evidence is drawn from the work of four scholars.\n\nPhilosopher John Dewey and economist John Fagg Foster denied legitimacy to intrinsic value. They treated it as contaminated application of instrumental value, and showed how instrumental value alone can judge ends and means that both work and are right. Philosopher Jacques Ellul argued that instrumental value had itself become contaminated by inhuman industrial power unregulated by intrinsic supernatural value. Philosopher Anjan Chakravartty argued that modern scientific realism confirms the truth of intrinsic value and the fallacy of relativistic instrumental value.\n\nTo reduce ambiguity, throughout this article the noun \"value\" names a criterion of judgment but not an object judged valuable. The noun \"valuation\" names an object judged valuable. The plural noun \"values\" identifies collections of valuations, without identifying the criterion applied.\n\nJohn Dewey judged the human belief in intrinsic value to be a futile and failed search for a community moral compass. He saw no need for intrinsic value because instrumental value enables human groups to coordinate beliefs and behaviors that both work and are right. Every social transaction has good or bad consequences depending on prevailing conditions that are satisfied or not. Continuous reasoning adjusts patterns to keep them working on the right track as conditions change.\n\nDewey thought that belief in intrinsic value contaminates instrumental value by isolating judgments of what is right from judgments of what works. For him, \"restoring integration and cooperation between man's beliefs about the world in which he lives and his beliefs about the values [valuations] and purposes that should direct his conduct is the deepest problem of modern life.\" \"A culture which permits science to destroy traditional values [valuations] but which distrusts its power to create new ones is a culture which is destroying itself.\"\n\nDewey agreed with Max Weber that people talk as if they apply instrumental and intrinsic criteria. And he agreed with Weber's observation that intrinsic value is problematic because it ignores the relationship between context and consequences of beliefs and behaviors. Both men questioned how anything valued intrinsically \"for its own sake\" can have operationally efficient consequences.\n\nBut Dewey rejected the common belief--shared by Weber--that supernatural intrinsic value is necessary to show humans what is permanently \"right.\" He argued that both efficient and legitimate qualities are discovered in daily life, where conditions are always changing.\n\nFinding no evidence of \"antecedent immutable reality of truth, beauty, and goodness...,\" Dewey argued that both efficient and legitimate qualities are discovered in the continuity of human experience, which always has antecedents, and is always mutable.\n\nPhilosophers label a \"fixed reference point outside of conduct' a \"natural kind,\" and presume it to have eternal existence knowable in itself without being experienced. Natural kinds are \"mind-independent\" and \"theory-independent\" valuations.\n\nDewey granted the existence of \"reality\" apart from human experience, but denied that it is structured as natural kinds possessing intrinsic qualities. Instead, he saw reality as functional continuity--ways of acting--not structural continuity of intrinsic interacting entities. Humans may intuit static kinds and qualities, but such private experience cannot warrant inferences or valuations about mind-independent reality. Reports or maps of any sort are never equivalent to that which is mapped. They are fragmentary perceptions of unceasing processes.\n\nPeople reason daily about what they ought to do and how they ought to do it. They discover sequences of efficient means that achieve consequences successfully. Once an end is reached - a problem solved - reasoning turns to what comes next in new conditions of means-end relations. Valuations and actions which ignore conditions that determine consequences cannot coordinate behavior to solve real problems. They are irrational.\n\nIn brief, Dewey rejected the traditional belief that judging things good-in-themselves, apart from existing means-end relations, can be rational. The sole rational criterion is instrumental value. Each successful valuation is conditional but, cumulatively, all are developmental solutions of problems. Cumulative instrumental success provides a legitimate moral compass. Competent instrumental valuations treat the \"function of consequences as necessary tests of the validity of propositions, \"provided\" these consequences are operationally instituted and are such as to resolve the specific problems evoking the operations...\";\n\nJohn Fagg Foster refined John Dewey's rejection of intrinsic value and description of instrumental value. He clarified differences between Dewey's instrumental criterion and the widely endorsed but faulty utilitarian alternative that turns utility into an intrinsic value.\n\nAt least since Aristotle, scholars have reasoned that individual wants are intrinsic traits of human nature, the satisfaction of which is a legitimate end. This belief is embodied in the criterion of utility, which holds that individuals--and groups of individuals in societies--legitimately try to maximize the sum of their want satisfactions.;\n\nUtilitarians hold that individual wants cannot be rationally justified. They are intrinsically worthy mental valuations and cannot be judged instrumentally. This belief supports philosophers who hold that facts--\"what is\"--can serve as instrumental means for achieving wants, but cannot authorize ends--\"what ought to be.\" This fact-value distinction creates what philosophers label the is-ought problem: wants are intrinsically fact-free, good in themselves, while efficient tools are valuation-free, usable for good or bad ends. In modern North American culture, this utilitarian belief supports the Libertarian assertion that every individual's intrinsic right to satisfy wants makes it illegitimate for anyone--but especially governments--to tell people what they ought to do.\n\nFoster found this \"is-ought\" problem a useful place to attack the irrational separation of means from ends. He started his analysis by arguing that want-satisfaction--\"what ought to be\"--cannot serve as an intrinsic moral compass because wants are themselves consequences of transient conditions.\nSince wants are shaped by social conditions, they must be judged instrumentally. Wants arise in problematic situations when habitual patterns of behavior fail to maintain instrumental correlations. Foster supported with homely examples his thesis that problematic situations--\"what is\"--contain the means for judging rationally factual ends: \"what ought to be.\"\n\nConsider the problem all infants face learning to walk. They spontaneously recognize that walking is more efficient than crawling--an instrumental valuation of a desirable end. They learn to walk by repeatedly moving and balancing, judging the efficiency with which these means achieve their instrumental goal. When they master this new way of acting, they experience great satisfaction, but satisfaction is never their end-in-view.\n\nConsider the global problem of unemployment. Since the industrial revolution began, large groups of people have been deprived of traditional means of participation in two social functions--productive activity and income security--and of the dignity maintained by that participation. Conditions that exclude participation--\"what is\"--must be replaced by new patterns of inclusion--\"what ought to be.\"\n\nAt the end of World War II, the United States faced the threat of massive unemployment caused by demobilization. Labor markets--the traditional utilitarian solution to unemployment--appeared unlikely to avoid that threat. The instrumental solution was to prescribe a new pattern of correlated behavior to maintain participation: the G.I. Bill, which generously subsidized education and livelihood for veterans and fostered a massive burst of innovation and economic expansion. The instrumental moral compass of participation worked. Intrinsic value as either rule or reality was ignored.\n\nFoster labeled successful applications of instrumental value \"instrumental efficiency.\" But he realized that efficiency by itself can contaminate reasoning by turning a dynamic process--\"what ought to be\"--into a static valuation--\"what is.\" Turning a conditionally-successful tool-use into a static self-justifying pattern of behavior is self-defeating.\n\nTo guard against this contamination of instrumental value, Foster revised his definition of its content to embrace both means and ends. INSTRUMENTAL VALUE: The criterion of judgment that seeks instrumentally-efficient means that \"work\" to achieve developmentally-continuous ends. This definition stresses the condition that a successful operation must not lead down a dead-end street. The same point is made by the currently popular concern for sustainability--a synonym for instrumental value.\n\nDewey's and Foster's arguments that instrumental value is the proper criterion for judging both means and ends continue to be ignored rather than refuted. Scholars continue to accept the possibility and necessity of knowing intrinsic value--\"what ought to be\"--independently of transient conditions that determine actual consequences of every action. Jacques Ellul and Anjan Chakravartty were prominent exponents of popular arguments for the reality of intrinsic value as moral compass and as constraint on relativistic instrumental value.\n\nJacques Ellul made scholarly contributions to many fields, but his American reputation grew out of his criticism of the autonomous authority of instrumental value, the criterion that Dewey and Foster found to be the core of human rationality. And he specifically criticized the valuations central to Dewey's and Foster's thesis: evolving instrumental technology.\n\nHis principal work, published in 1954, bore the French title \"La technique.\" It addressed the problem Dewey addressed in 1929: a culture in which the authority of evolving technology destroys traditional valuations without creating legitimate new ones. Both men agreed that conditionally efficient valuations--\"what is\"--become irrational when viewed as unconditionally efficient in themselves--\"what ought to be.\" But while Dewey argued that contaminated instrumental valuations can be self-correcting, Ellul concluded that technology had become intrinsically destructive. The only escape from this evil is to restore authority to unconditional sacred valuations:\n\n\"La technique\" was published in English in 1964 with the title \"The Technological Society\", and quickly entered ongoing disputes in the United States over the responsibility of instrumental value for destructive social consequences. The translator of \"Technological Society\" summarized Ellul's thesis:\n\nEllul opened \"The Technological Society\" by asserting that instrumental efficiency is no longer a conditional criterion. It has become autonomous and absolute.\n\nHe accused instrumental judgment of destroying intrinsic meanings of human life. \"Think of our dehumanized factories, our unsatisfied senses, our working women, our estrangement from nature. Life in such an environment has no meaning. Weber had labeled the discrediting of intrinsic valuations \"disenchantment;\" Ellul came to label it \"terrorism.\" He dated its domination to the 1800s, when centuries-old handicraft techniques were massively eliminated by inhuman industry.\n\nEllul's core accusation was that instrumental efficiency had become absolute--a good-in-itself. It wraps societies in a new technological milieu with six intrinsically inhuman characteristics:\n\nTiles and Oberdiek found Ellul's characterization of instrumental efficiency inaccurate. They criticized him for anthropomorphizing and demonizing instrumental value. They countered by examining the moral reasoning of scientists whose work led to nuclear weapons. Those scientists demonstrated the capacity of instrumental judgments to provide them with a moral compass to judge nuclear technology with conscience and responsibility, with no need for intrinsic rules. Tiles's and Oberdiek's conclusion coincided with that of Dewey and Foster: instrumental value, when competently applied, is self-correcting and provides humans with a developmental moral compass.\n\nAnjan Chakravartty came indirectly to question the autonomous authority of instrumental value. He viewed it as a foil for the currently dominant philosophical school labeled \"scientific realism,\" with which he identifies. In 2007, he published a work defending the ultimate authority of intrinsic valuations to which realists are committed. He linked the pragmatic instrumental criterion to discredited anti-realist empiricist schools including logical positivism and instrumentalism\n\nChakravartty began his study with rough characterizations of realist and anti-realist valuations of theories. Anti-realists believe \"that theories are merely instruments for predicting observable phenomena or systematizing observation reports.\" They assert that theories can never report or prescribe truth or reality \"in itself.\" By contrast, scientific realists believe that theories can \"correctly describe both observable and unobservable parts of the world.\" Well-confirmed theories--\"what ought to be\" as the end of reasoning--are more than tools. They are mappings of intrinsic properties of an unobservable and unconditional territory--\"what is\" as natural but metaphysical real kinds.\n\nChakravartty treated value-in-general as ungrounded opinion, but admitted that realists value how well theories \"work\"--the instrumental criterion. He qualified that criterion's scope, claiming that every instrumental judgment is inductive, heuristic, accidental. Later experience might confirm a singular judgment only if it proves to have universal validity, meaning it possesses \"detection properties\" of natural kinds. This inference is his fundamental ground for believing in intrinsic value.\n\nHe committed modern realists to three metaphysical valuations or intrinsic kinds of knowledge of truth. Competent realists affirm that natural kinds 1) exist in a mind-independent territory possessing 2) meaningful and 3) mappable intrinsic properties.\n\nHe labeled these intrinsic valuations semirealist, meaning they are currently the most accurate theoretical descriptions of mind-independent natural kinds. He found these carefully qualified statements necessary to replace earlier realist descriptions discredited by advancing instrumental valuations.\n\nScience has destroyed for many people the supernatural intrinsic value embraced by Weber and Ellul. But Chakravartty defended natural intrinsic valuations as necessary elements of all science--belief in unobservable continuities. He advanced the thesis of semirealism, according to which well-tested theories are good maps of natural kinds, as confirmed by their instrumental success. Their predictive success means they conform to mind-independent, unconditional reality.\n\nChakravartty argued that these semirealist valuations authorize scientific theorizing about pragmatic kinds, as scientists search for natural kinds. The fact that theoretical kinds are frequently replaced does not mean that mind-independent reality is changing, but simply that theoretical maps are approximating intrinsic reality.\n\nIn sum, Chakravartty argued that contingent instrumental valuations are warranted only as they approximate unchanging intrinsic valuations. Scholars continue to perfect their explanations of intrinsic value, as they deny the developmental continuity of applications of instrumental value.\n\nRealist intrinsic value, such as proposed by Chakravartty, is widely endorsed in modern scientific circles, while the supernatural intrinsic value endorsed by Weber and Ellul maintains its popularity throughout the world. Doubters about the reality of instrumental and intrinsic value are few.\n\n"}
{"id": "40586961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40586961", "title": "Katastematic pleasure", "text": "Katastematic pleasure\n\nIn Epicurean philosophy, katastematic pleasure is pleasure felt when being in a particular state, as opposed to kinetic pleasure, which is felt while performing an activity. It is the pleasure that accompanies well-being as such. Absence of pain, aponia, and lack of disturbance of mind, ataraxia, are two of the katastematic pleasures and often seen as the focal ones to Epicurus.\n"}
{"id": "10650396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10650396", "title": "Keep Your Eyes on the Prize", "text": "Keep Your Eyes on the Prize\n\n\"Keep Your Eyes on the Prize\" is a folk song that became influential during the American Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s. It is based on the traditional song, \"Gospel Plow,\" also known as \"Hold On,\" \"Keep Your Hand on the Plow,\" and various permutations thereof.\n\nAn early reference to the older song, \"Gospel Plow,\" is in Alan Lomax's 1949 book \"\"Our Singing Country\".\" The book references a 1937 recording by Elihu Trusty of Paintsville, Kentucky, which is in the Library of Congress (Ref No .1397 A1). Lomax's references for Gospel Plow cite two earlier works. The first is from \"English Folk Songs from the Southern Appalachians\" published in 1917, indicating that Gospel Plow dates from at least the early twentieth century. The second reference is to a 1928 book, \"American Negro Folk-Songs\", which shows an African-American heritage for the original song.\n\nThe lyrics to the modern Civil Rights version of the song, \"Keep Your Eyes on the Prize\" are often attributed to Alice Wine from Johns Island, South Carolina. Mrs. Wine was a member of the Moving Star Hall and the Progressive Club on Johns Island. The book \"Ain't You Got the Right to the Tree of Life\" by Guy and Candie Carawan. documents songs of the Moving Star Hall and the lives of African Americans on Johns Island in the early sixties.\n\nIt is doubtful that Mrs. Wine actually composed the lyrics herself. More likely she had heard the revised refrain and variations on the verses of the older song from the congregation at the praise hall. The leading \"Paul and Silas\" stanzas in the modern \"Keep Your Eyes on the Prize\" lyrics were already present in some versions of the older \"Keep Your Hand on the Plow.\" \"Our Singing Country\" shows these lyrics were already in use in 1949 and before. Odetta used them in her 1960 Carnegie Hall appearance and recording. Mrs Wine is credited by Candie Carawan only with having passed onto Guy Carawan the revision of the title from \"Keep Your Hand on the Plow\" to \"Keep Your Eyes on the Prize.\"\n\nLyrics for traditional American folk songs and African-American spirituals are often changed, improvised and traded between songs by different artists and at different performances. This was and is especially true in the call and response of African American religious music. For example, Mahalia Jackson, in her 1958 performance of \"Keep Your Hand on the Plow\", begins with the couplet \"\"Mary had three links of chain, Every link bearin' Jesus name\".\" Bob Dylan also sings these lyrics in his upbeat version of \"Gospel Plow.\" Carl Sandburg, in his 1927 book \"The American Songbag\", attributes these lyrics to yet another song entirely, \"Mary Wore Three Links of Chain.\" Modern choral arrangements of this song sound entirely different from either the Eyes-Prize or Hand-Plow songs. Both Sandberg in the preface to his book and folk singer Pete Seeger in the opening remarks to his Carnegie Hall performance of \"Keep Your Eyes on the Prize\" note the malleability of American and African-American folk music. No one artist can be historically credited with \"Keep Your Eyes on the Prize.\"\n\nThe title of the modern song may be a reference to the Bible verse in Phillipians 3:17 \"keep your eyes on those who live as we do\" and verse 14, \"I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.\"\n\nThe \"Gospel Plow\" title is also shown as a reference to Luke 9:62: \"No one who puts a hand to the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom of God.\"\n\nThe \"Paul and Silas\" lyrics are clearly a Biblical reference to Acts 16:19-26. Here are the lyrics minus refrain:\n\nPaul and Silas, bound in jail<br>\nHad no money for to go their bail<br>\n<br>\nPaul and Silas began to shout<br>\nDoors popped open, and all walked out<br>\n<br>\nWell, the only chains we can stand<br>\nAre the chains between hand and hand<br>\n<br>\nAnd the biblical passages:\n<br>\nActs 16:19-26 <br>\nNew International Version<br>\n<br>\n… they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to face the authorities. 20 They brought them before the magistrates and said, \"These men are Jews, and are throwing our city into an uproar 21 by advocating customs unlawful for us Romans to accept or practice.\"<br>\n<br>\n22 The crowd joined in the attack against Paul and Silas, and the magistrates ordered them to be stripped and beaten with rods. 23 After they had been severely flogged, they were thrown into prison, and the jailer was commanded to guard them carefully. 24 When he received these orders, he put them in the inner cell and fastened their feet in the stocks.<br>\n<br>\n25 About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the other prisoners were listening to them. 26 Suddenly there was such a violent earthquake that the foundations of the prison were shaken. At once all the prison doors flew open, and everyone's chains came loose\n\n\n\nBob Dylan \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41208740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41208740", "title": "Lahutā", "text": "Lahutā\n\nLahutā (Pali) is a Buddhist term translated as \"lightness\", and it is the basis for the following pair of mental factors within the Theravada Abhidharma teachings:\n\nThese two mental factors have the characteristic of the subsiding of heaviness (garubhāva) in the mental body and consciousness, respectively.\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nNina van Gorkom explains:\n\nThe \"Atthasālinī\" (I, Book I, Part IV, Chapter I, 30) states:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3170328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3170328", "title": "Legend of the Five Rings Roleplaying Game", "text": "Legend of the Five Rings Roleplaying Game\n\nThe Legend of the Five Rings Roleplaying Game is a role-playing game originally written by John Wick and published by Alderac Entertainment Group, under license from Five Rings Publishing Group, in 1997. The game uses the Legend of the Five Rings setting, and primarily the nation of Rokugan, which is based on feudal Japan with influences from other East Asian cultures.\n\nLike most role-playing games, Legend of the Five Rings is played by one or more players and a game master, who controls the events that happen during the game as well as the non-player characters (NPCs). \"Legend of the Five Rings\" features many courtiers and other non-combatant character types as valid player characters.\n\nIn 1998, Legend of the Five Rings won the Origins Award for \"Best Roleplaying Game of 1997\". In 2008 the L5R RPG 3rd Edition sourcebook Emerald Empire won the Scrye Players Choice Award.\n\nIn September 2015, AEG and Fantasy Flight Games jointly announced that the intellectual property had been sold to FFG. A fifth edition of the role-playing game released in October, 2018.\n\nThe fictional setting of \"Legend of the Five Rings\" is similar to feudal Japan, though it also includes aspects of other Asian cultures, as well as magic and mythical beasts. There is no given name for the entire world which the setting describes, so \"Rokugan\" is used alternately to refer to the specific nation within the setting or to refer to the entire world.\n\nRokugani society is based on a clan structure, with seven (and later eight) so-called \"Great Clans\", as well as a number of minor clans. Great Clans are made up of several family lines, each with their own general purpose within the clan. Minor clans generally only have one family. Each clan also has areas of land bequeathed by the emperor under their control. The emperor retains ownership of all lands, however, and the clans essentially rent the lands by paying annual taxes.\n\nThe game system of \"Legend of the Five Rings\" uses 10-sided dice exclusively. Usually, when a die is rolled and the result is 10 (normally marked '0' on the die), the die is said to \"explode\". In this situation, the player rolls again and the new result is added to the original result. If this second result is a 10, the player rolls a third time, totaling all three results. This process is repeated until the player rolls something other than 10. The second edition and most books made for it were written to work both with this system and with D20 rules as presented in the Oriental Adventures D&D setting; this was discontinued after 3rd edition was published.\n\nThe mechanic for which the game is most widely known is the \"Roll & Keep\" system, designed by Dave Williams and John Wick. When dice are rolled, there are two quantities given: a number of dice to be rolled and a number of dice to be \"kept\". The totals of the kept dice are added together, giving the player the total sum for his or her roll. For example, if a roll called for five dice to be rolled and three kept (said simply \"five keep three\" or written \"5k3\"), five dice would be rolled. Out of those five, the player would choose three (generally, but not necessarily, the player would choose the three with the highest values) whose values would be added together for the total value of the roll.\n\n\"Legend of the Five Rings\" uses eight traits: Stamina, Willpower, Strength, Perception, Agility, Intelligence, Reflexes, and Awareness. The Traits are grouped into pairs associated with four elemental \"Rings\" (respectively to above): Earth, Water, Fire and Air. The four Rings represent a limitation in character development, because in order for a character to advance, the level of his Rings must increase, and to increase a character’s Rings, both of the Ring’s associated Traits must increase.\n\nThere is a fifth Ring, called Void. This ring, like the other four, is taken from Miyamoto Musashi's \"The Book of Five Rings\", although \"Nothingness\" is a better translation of the text. In the game, Void represents a character’s inner strength, and its use allows a character to perform extraordinary actions, or to perform normal actions more efficiently.\n\nThere are primarily two methods of creating characters in role-playing games: to roll dice to randomly generate attributes or to begin with a set number of points and a formula by which attributes can be purchased with these points. \"Legend of the Five Rings\" uses the latter method. Each new character begins with 40 \"Character Points\" to spend to create the character (except for ronin characters, which begin with 55). These points are spent to raise the level of the character’s Traits and Void Ring, to raise the level of the character’s skills, and to purchase new skills. In previous versions of the game, characters started with 30 points, or 45 for ronin.\n\nThese points may also be used to purchase \"Advantages\", which give the character some extra bonus or ability that is designed to help in certain situations (such as \"Large\", which increases the damage a character can inflict, or \"Social Position\", which increases that character’s standing in the courts of the land). Conversely, if a player so chooses, he can select a number of Disadvantages for his character, which give extra Character Points to spend in other areas, but imposes some penalty on the character during play (such as \"Small\", which decreases the damage the character can inflict with certain weapons, or \"Bad Reputation\", which causes a great number of NPCs to dislike the character).\n\nThe Legend of the Five Rings Role-Playing Game is renowned for its lethality. Players who charge into combat unaware will often find their characters killed in the first session. Proper role-playing is encouraged to avoid combat when unnecessary, but the characters do have requisite abilities to survive if combat is forced in the early stages.\n\n\"Oriental Adventures\" was published originally in 1985 by TSR, Inc. as an expansion for \"Advanced Dungeons & Dragons\" and was set in a land called Kara-Tur. In 2001, Wizards of the Coast released a new edition of \"Oriental Adventures\" as an expansion for the third edition of Dungeons & Dragons. It was decided to make this new version of \"Oriental Adventures\" a showcase for their recently acquired \"Legend of the Five Rings\". An official (but not 100% comprehensive) update of Oriental Adventures to the v.3.5 rules can be found in Dragon Magazine #318 (April 2004), pp. 32-48. \n\nFor the entirety of its Second Edition, with the exception of the \"Player's Guide\", \"Game Master's Guide\", \"Way of the Shadowlands\", \"Winter Court: Kyuden Asako\", and \"Time of the Void\", books published for the Legend of the Five Rings RPG had two different sets of game mechanics: the mechanics from the \"Legend of the Five Rings Second Edition Player's Guide\" and corresponding mechanics for d20 System, such as those presented in \"Oriental Adventures\". Beginning with the Third Edition of the Legend of the Five Rings Role-Playing Game, and because of the lack of availability of the now out of print \"Oriental Adventures\", the d20 System rules have been dropped from current Legend of the Five Rings Role-Playing Game books.\n\nListed by AEG reference number in parentheses followed by title\n\n(3001) Legend of the Five Rings – Roleplaying in the Emerald Empire (first edition core rule book) \n(3002) Game Master’s Pack: The Hare Clan \n(3003) Way of the Dragon (Way of the Clans: Book One) \n(3004) City of Lies box set (L-1 City of Lies) \n(3005) Way of the Unicorn (Way of the Clans: Book Two) \n(3006) Book of the Shadowlands \n(3008) Way of the Scorpion (Way of the Clans: Book Five) \n(3009) Way of the Crane (Way of the Clans: Book Four) \n(3010) Way of the Lion (Way of the Clans: Book Six) \n(3011) Walking the Way: The Lost Spells of Rokugan \n(3012) Tomb of Iuchiban box set (S-1 Shadowlands Series) \n(3013) Way of Shadow \n(3014) Way of the Naga (Way of the Clans: Book Eight) \n(3015) Game Master’s Survival Guide \n(3016) Winter Court: Kyuden Seppun \n(3017) Way of the Phoenix (Way of the Clans: Book Seven) \n(3018) Unexpected Allies \n(3019) Bearers of Jade: The Second Book of the Shadowlands \n(3020) Otosan Uchi: The Imperial City box set (O-1 The Imperial City) \n(3021) Way of the Minor Clans (Way of the Clans: Book Nine) \n(3022) Game Master’s Pack (Revised): The Silence Within Sound \n(3023) Merchant’s Guide to Rokugan \n(3024) Winter Court: Kyuden Kakita \n(3025) Way of the Wolf (Way of the Clans: Book Ten) \n(3028) Way of Shinsei (Way of the Clans: Book Eleven) \n(4001) Honor’s Veil (I-1 Intrigue Series) \n(4002) Night of a Thousand Screams (L-2 City of Lies) \n(4003) Code of Bushido (B-1 Bushido Series) \n(4004) Twilight Honor (S-2 Shadowlands Series) \n(4005) Midnight’s Blood (M-1 High Magic Series) \n(4006) Legacy of the Forge (B-2 Bushido Series) \n(4007) Void in the Heavens (M-2 High Magic Series) \n(4008) Lesser of Two Evils (S-3 Shadowlands Series) \n(4500) Character Travelogue: Crab \n(4501) Character Travelogue: Crane \n(4502) Character Travelogue: Dragon \n(4503) Character Travelogue: Lion \n(4504) Character Travelogue: Phoenix \n(4505) Character Travelogue: Ronin \n(4506) Character Travelogue: Scorpion \n(4507) Character Travelogue: Unicorn\n\n(3026) Secrets of the Lion \n(3027) Secrets of the Scorpion \n(3029) Secrets of the Unicorn \n(3030) Way of the Shadowlands * \n(3030) Winter Court: Kyuden Asako *(both marked 3030, there is no 3031) \n(3032) Way of the Ratling \n(3033) Time of the Void \n(3034) Secrets of the Mantis \n(3035) Secrets of the Phoenix \n(3036) Secrets of the Crab \n(3037) Secrets of the Crane \n(3038) Secrets of the Dragon \n(3039) Secrets of the Shadowlands \n(3040) Complete Exotic Arms Guide supplement \n(3041) Legend of the Five Rings Live-Action Roleplaying \n(3042) Way of the Open Hand \n(3043) Way of the Daimyo \n(3044) Way of the Thief \n(3046) Complete Exotic Arms Guide \n(3047) The Hidden Emperor \n(3101) Legend of the Five Rings – Player’s Guide (second edition core rules) \n(3102) Legend of the Five Rings – Game Master’s Guide (second edition core rules) \n(3103) Rokugan – Oriental Adventures Campaign Setting \n(3104) Creatures of Rokugan \n(3105) Magic of Rokugan \n(3106) Way of the Samurai \n(3107) Way of the Ninja \n(3108) Way of the Shugenja \n(3109) Fortunes & Winds \n(4009) Bells of the Dead \n(4010) Mimura: The Village of Promises\n\n(WTC 12015) Oriental Adventures (d20 System) \n\n(3200) Legend of the Five Rings – Third Edition (Revised) (core rules) \n(3201) The Four Winds: The Toturi Dynasty from Gold to Lotus \n(3202) Creatures of Rokugan \n(3203) Art of the Duel \n(3204) Emerald Empire: The Legend of the Five Rings Companion \n(3205) Masters of War \n(3206) Prayers and Treasures \n(3207) Masters of Court \n(3208) Legend of the Burning Sands Roleplaying Game \n(3209) Masters of Magic \n(3210) Fealty and Freedom \n(3211) The Vacant Throne\n\n(3300) Legend of the Five Rings – 4th Edition (core rules) \n(3301) Legacy of Disaster \n(3302) Game Master’s Screen and Adventure \n(3303) Strongholds of the Empire \n(3304) Enemies of the Empire \n(3305) Emerald Empire \n(3306) The Great Clans \n(3307) Imperial Histories \n(3308) The Book of Air \n(3309) Second City box set \n(3310) The Book of Earth \n(3311) Imperial Histories 2 \n(3312) The Book of Fire \n(3313) Naishou Province \n(3314) Secrets of the Empire \n(3315) The Book of Water \n(3316) Sword and Fan \n(3317) Book of the Void \n(3318) Atlas of Rokugan \nUnexpected Allies 2 (pdf and print-on-demand) \nThe Imperial Archives (pdf and print-on-demand)\n"}
{"id": "10906585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10906585", "title": "Money pump", "text": "Money pump\n\nIn economic theory, the money pump argument is a thought experiment intended to show that rational behavior requires transitive preferences: If one prefers A to B and B to C, then one should not prefer C to A. Standard economic theory assumes that preferences are transitive.\n\nHowever, many people have argued that intransitive preferences are quite common, and often observed in real world settings. A cognitive bias is called the focusing effect: people focus on one characteristic which stands out in order to make decisions In choosing potential mates, candidate A is more beautiful/handsome than candidate B. B is wealthier then C. C is far better attuned on a personal level than A – the hearts meet. Then choices could be intransitive because instead of evaluating the whole package, people focus on one characteristic which distinguishes between two candidates to make decisions.\nThe original example of the Money Pump was published by Davidson, McKinsey and Suppes in 1955. It was based on gambling games. In their example, there are two \"tickets\", each of which entitles the bearer to play a gambling game once. Any money paid to obtain the ticket does not count towards the stake for the game. An example of the type of tickets available are:\n\n\nMcKinsey and Suppes found that most players would rate the ticket with the higher chance of winning (A) as more desirable, but the ticket with the higher prize (B) as more valuable, thus representing intransitive preferences. This would theoretically allow a \"money pump\" to operate as follows:\n\n\nThere are many counter-arguments which can be made to this. One of the simplest was made by Cubitt. His paper shows that the argument rests on some very strong assumptions and is tautological: to say that X acts as a money pump is no different from saying that X has intransitive preferences, and does not add anything to evidence for or against the existence of intransitive preferences.\n\nA second argument is more fundamental, and this rests on the possibility of incomparability. This differentiates between choice and preference. Forced to choose between A and B, I may choose A, yet the two may really not be comparable choices, thus we cannot conclude that I must have preferred A to B. See section on \"incommensurabilty\" in article on \"Dynamic Choices\" in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy for a more detailed discussion. If choices are not comparable, then again the money pump argument fails.\nA more complex and sophisticated version of this argument occurs in the context of subjective probability, where it is known as the Dutch book argument. There it is shown that rational behavior involves making choices over bets in such a way that they correspond to subjective probabilities. If someone fails to satisfy this condition (that is, fails to have subjective probabilities), then his preferences over lotteries will be intransitive and he can be made to act as a money pump. Thus the argument is used to justify the existence of subjective probabilities as a requirement for rational behavior. Again there are many possible counter-arguments.\n\n"}
{"id": "6160857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6160857", "title": "Mowgli syndrome", "text": "Mowgli syndrome\n\n“Mowgli syndrome” is a term used by Wendy Doniger O’Flaherty in her 1995 book \"Other Peoples’ Myths: The Cave of Echoes\" to describe mythological figures who succeed in bridging the animal and human worlds to become one with nature, a human animal, only to become trapped between the two worlds, not completely animal yet not entirely human.\n\nIt is also a rarely used descriptive term for so-called feral children; “Mowgli syndrome” is not a recognized psychological or physiological malady. The term originates from the character Mowgli, a fictional feral child from Rudyard Kipling’s \"The Jungle Book\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30272017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30272017", "title": "Nearly Kähler manifold", "text": "Nearly Kähler manifold\n\nIn mathematics, a nearly Kähler manifold is an almost Hermitian manifold formula_1, with almost complex structure formula_2,\nsuch that the (2,1)-tensor formula_3 is skew-symmetric. So,\n\nfor every vector field formula_5 on formula_1.\n\nIn particular, a Kähler manifold is nearly Kähler. The converse is not true. \nFor example, the nearly Kähler six-sphere formula_7 is an example of a nearly Kähler manifold that is not Kähler. The familiar almost complex structure on the six-sphere is not induced by a complex atlas on formula_7.\nUsually, non Kählerian nearly Kähler manifolds are called \"strict nearly Kähler manifolds\".\n\nNearly Kähler manifolds, also known as almost Tachibana manifolds, were studied by Shun-ichi Tachibana in 1959 and then by Alfred Gray from 1970 on.\nFor example, it was proved that any 6-dimensional strict nearly Kähler manifold is an Einstein manifold and has vanishing first Chern class\n(in particular, this implies spin). \nIn the 1980s, strict nearly Kähler manifolds obtained a lot of consideration because of their relation to Killing\nspinors: Thomas Friedrich and Ralf Grunewald showed that a 6-dimensional Riemannian manifold admits\na Riemannian Killing spinor if and only if it is nearly Kähler. This was later given a more fundamental explanation by Christian Bär, who pointed out that\nthese are exactly the 6-manifolds for which the corresponding 7-dimensional Riemannian cone has holonomy G. \n\nThe only compact 6-manifolds known to admit strict nearly Kähler metrics are formula_9, and formula_10. Each of these admits such a unique nearly Kähler metric that is also homogeneous, and these examples are in fact the only compact homogeneous strictly nearly Kähler 6-manifolds.\nHowever, Foscolo and Haskins recently showed that formula_7 and formula_10 also admit strict nearly Kähler metrics that are not homogeneous. \n\nBär's observation about the holonomy of Riemannian cones might seem to indicate that the nearly-Kähler condition is \nmost natural and interesting in dimension 6. This actually borne out by a theorem of Nagy, who proved that any strict, complete nearly Kähler manifold is locally a Riemannian product of homogeneous nearly Kähler spaces, twistor spaces over quaternion-Kähler manifolds, and 6-dimensional nearly Kähler manifolds.\n\nNearly Kähler manifolds are also an interesting class of manifolds admitting a metric connection with\nparallel totally antisymmetric torsion.\n\nNearly Kähler manifolds should not be confused with almost Kähler manifolds.\nAn almost Kähler manifold formula_1 is an almost Hermitian manifold with a closed Kähler form:\nformula_14. The Kähler form or fundamental 2-form formula_15 is defined by\n\nwhere formula_17 is the metric on formula_1. The nearly Kähler condition and the almost Kähler condition are essentially exclusive: an almost Hermitian manifold is both nearly Kähler and almost Kahler if and only if it is Kähler.\n"}
{"id": "362728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362728", "title": "Negative temperature", "text": "Negative temperature\n\nIn quantum thermodynamics, certain systems can achieve negative temperature; that is, their temperature can be expressed as a negative quantity on the Kelvin or Rankine scales.\n\nA system with a truly negative temperature on the Kelvin scale is \"hotter\" than any system with a positive temperature. If a negative-temperature system and a positive-temperature system come in contact, heat will flow from the negative- to the positive-temperature system. A standard example of such a system is population inversion in laser physics.\n\nTemperature is loosely interpreted as the average kinetic energy of the system's particles. The existence of negative temperature, let alone negative temperature representing \"hotter\" systems than positive temperature, would seem paradoxical in this interpretation. \nThe paradox is resolved by considering the more rigorous definition of thermodynamic temperature as the tradeoff between internal energy and entropy\ncontained in the system, with \"coldness\", the \"reciprocal\" of temperature, being the more fundamental quantity. \nSystems with a positive temperature will increase in entropy as one adds energy to the system, while \nsystems with a negative temperature will decrease in entropy as one adds energy to the system.\n\nClassical thermodynamic systems cannot achieve negative temperatures: adding heat always increases their entropy. \nThe possibility of a decrease in entropy as energy increases requires the system to \"saturate\" in entropy. This is only possible if the number of high energy states is limited. In classical Boltzmann statistics, the number of high energy states is unlimited (particle speeds can in principle be increased indefinitely).\nSystems bounded by a maximum amount of energy are generally forbidden in classical mechanics, and the phenomenon of negative temperature is strictly a \nquantum mechanical phenomenon. Some systems, however (see the examples below), have a maximum amount of energy that they can hold, and as they approach that maximum energy their entropy actually begins to decrease.\n\nThe definition of thermodynamic temperature as a function of the change in the system's entropy under reversible heat transfer \nformula_1:\nEntropy being a state function, the integral of over any cyclical process is zero.\nFor a system in which the entropy is purely a function of the system's energy , the temperature can be defined as:\n\nEquivalently, thermodynamic beta, or \"coldness\", is defined as \nwhere is the Boltzmann constant.\n\nNote that in classical thermodynamics, is defined in terms of temperature. This is reversed here, is the statistical entropy, a function of the possibly microstates of the system, and temperature conveys information on the distribution of energy levels among the possible microstates.\nFor systems with many degrees of freedom, the statistical and thermodynamic definitions of entropy are generally consistent with each other. \nHowever, for small systems and systems where the number of states decreases with energy, the definitions of statistical entropy and thermodynamic entropy are not necessarily consistent, and the temperatures derived from these entropies are different. \n\nSome theorists have proposed using an alternate definition of entropy originally proposed by Gibbs as a way to resolve these inconsistencies, although this new definition would create other inconsistencies.\n\nNegative temperatures can only exist in a system where there are a limited number of energy states (see below). As the temperature is increased on such a system, particles move into higher and higher energy states, and as the temperature increases, the number of particles in the lower energy states and in the higher energy states approaches equality. (This is a consequence of the definition of temperature in statistical mechanics for systems with limited states.) By injecting energy into these systems in the right fashion, it is possible to create a system in which there are more particles in the higher energy states than in the lower ones. The system can then be characterised as having a negative temperature.\n\nA substance with a negative temperature is not colder than absolute zero, but rather it is hotter than infinite temperature. As Kittel and Kroemer (p. 462) put it, \"The temperature scale from cold to hot runs:\n\nThe corresponding inverse temperature scale, for the quantity \"β\" = 1/\"kT\" (where \"k\" is Boltzmann's constant), runs continuously from low energy to high as +∞, … , 0, …, −∞. Because it avoids the abrupt jump from +∞ to −∞, β is considered more natural than \"T\". Although a system can have multiple negative temperature regions and thus have -∞ to +∞ discontinuities.\n\nIn many familiar physical systems, temperature is associated to the kinetic energy of atoms. Since there is no upper bound on the momentum of an atom, there is no upper bound to the number of energy states available when more energy is added, and therefore no way to get to a negative temperature. However, in statistical mechanics, temperature can correspond to other degrees of freedom than just kinetic energy (see below).\n\nThe distribution of energy among the various translational, vibrational, rotational, electronic, and nuclear modes of a system determines the macroscopic temperature. In a \"normal\" system, thermal energy is constantly being exchanged between the various modes.\n\nHowever, in some situations, it is possible to isolate one or more of the modes. In practice, the isolated modes still exchange energy with the other modes, but the time scale of this exchange is much slower than for the exchanges within the isolated mode. One example is the case of nuclear spins in a strong external magnetic field. In this case, energy flows fairly rapidly among the spin states of interacting atoms, but energy transfer between the nuclear spins and other modes is relatively slow. Since the energy flow is predominantly within the spin system, it makes sense to think of a spin temperature that is distinct from the temperature associated to other modes.\n\nA definition of temperature can be based on the relationship:\n\nThe relationship suggests that a \"positive temperature\" corresponds to the condition where entropy, \"S\", increases as thermal energy, \"q\", is added to the system. This is the \"normal\" condition in the macroscopic world, and is always the case for the translational, vibrational, rotational, and non-spin related electronic and nuclear modes. The reason for this is that there are an infinite number of these types of modes, and adding more heat to the system increases the number of modes that are energetically accessible, and thus increases the entropy.\n\nThe simplest example, albeit a rather nonphysical one, is to consider a system of \"N\" particles, each of which can take an energy of either \"+ε\" or \"-ε\" but are otherwise noninteracting. This can be understood as a limit of the Ising model in which the interaction term becomes negligible. The total energy of the system is\n\nwhere \"σ\" is the sign of the \"i\"th particle and \"j\" is the number of particles with positive energy minus the number of particles with negative energy. From elementary combinatorics, the total number of microstates with this amount of energy is a binomial coefficient:\n\nBy the fundamental assumption of statistical mechanics, the entropy of this microcanonical ensemble is\n\nWe can solve for thermodynamic beta (β = 1/kT) by considering it as a central difference without taking the continuum limit:\n\nhence the temperature\n\nThis entire proof assumes the microcanonical ensemble with energy fixed and temperature being the emergent property. In the canonical ensemble, the temperature is fixed and energy is the emergent property. This leads to (formula_14 refers to microstates):\nFollowing the previous example, we choose a state with two levels and two particles. This leads to microstates formula_18, formula_19, formula_20, and formula_21.\nThe resulting values for formula_28, formula_29, and formula_30 are all increasing with formula_31 and never need to enter a negative temperature regime.\n\nThe previous example is approximately realized by a system of nuclear spins in an external magnetic field. This allows the experiment to be run as a variation of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In the case of electronic and nuclear spin systems, there are only a finite number of modes available, often just two, corresponding to spin up and spin down. In the absence of a magnetic field, these spin states are \"degenerate\", meaning that they correspond to the same energy. When an external magnetic field is applied, the energy levels are split, since those spin states that are aligned with the magnetic field will have a different energy from those that are anti-parallel to it.\n\nIn the absence of a magnetic field, such a two-spin system would have maximum entropy when half the atoms are in the spin-up state and half are in the spin-down state, and so one would expect to find the system with close to an equal distribution of spins. Upon application of a magnetic field, some of the atoms will tend to align so as to minimize the energy of the system, thus slightly more atoms should be in the lower-energy state (for the purposes of this example we will assume the spin-down state is the lower-energy state). It is possible to add energy to the spin system using radio frequency (RF) techniques. This causes atoms to \"flip\" from spin-down to spin-up.\n\nSince we started with over half the atoms in the spin-down state, this initially drives the system towards a 50/50 mixture, so the entropy is increasing, corresponding to a positive temperature. However, at some point, more than half of the spins are in the spin-up position. In this case, adding additional energy reduces the entropy, since it moves the system further from a 50/50 mixture. This reduction in entropy with the addition of energy corresponds to a negative temperature. In NMR spectroscopy, this corresponds to pulses with a pulse width of over 180° (for a given spin). While relaxation is fast in solids, it can take several seconds in solutions and even longer in gases and in ultracold systems; several hours were reported for silver and rhodium at picokelvin temperatures. It is still important to understand that the temperature is negative only with respect to nuclear spins. Other degrees of freedom, such as molecular vibrational, electronic and electron spin levels are at a positive temperature, so the object still has positive sensible heat. Relaxation actually happens by exchange of energy between the nuclear spin states and other states (e.g. through the nuclear Overhauser effect with other spins).\n\nThis phenomenon can also be observed in many lasing systems, wherein a large fraction of the system's atoms (for chemical and gas lasers) or electrons (in semiconductor lasers) are in excited states. This is referred to as a population inversion.\n\nThe Hamiltonian for a single mode of a luminescent radiation field at frequency \"ν\" is\nThe density operator in the grand canonical ensemble is\nFor the system to have a ground state, the trace to converge, and the density operator to be generally meaningful, \"βH\" must be positive semidefinite. So if \"hν\" < \"μ\", and \"H\" is negative semidefinite, then \"β\" must itself be negative, implying a negative temperature.\n\nThe two-dimensional systems can exist in negative temperature states.\n\nNegative temperatures have also been achieved in motional degrees of freedom. Using an optical lattice, upper bounds were placed on the kinetic energy, interaction energy and potential energy of cold atoms. This was done by tuning the interactions of the atoms from repulsive to attractive using a Feshbach resonance and changing the overall harmonic potential from trapping to anti-trapping, thus transforming the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian from formula_34. Performing this transformation adiabatically while keeping the atoms in the Mott insulator regime, it is possible to go from a low entropy positive temperature state to a low entropy negative temperature state. In the negative temperature state, the atoms macroscopically occupy the maximum momentum state of the lattice. The negative temperature ensembles equilibrated and showed long lifetimes in an anti-trapping harmonic potential.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48204910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48204910", "title": "Negative transference", "text": "Negative transference\n\nNegative transference is the psychoanalytic term for the transference of negative and hostile feelings, rather than positive ones, onto a therapist (or other emotional object).\n\nIn his pioneering studies of transference phenomena, Freud noted the existence of both positive and negative transferences, while expressing a preference for the former, which he initially saw as a prerequisite for analytic work. Freud considered that \"The hostile feelings make their appearance as a rule later than the affectionate ones and behind them\"; and more frequently in same-sex than in mixed-sex analytic pairings.\n\nOtto Fenichel pointed out that whereas neurotic aggravations can follow the emergence of a negative transference, so too (paradoxically) can improvements: the patient gets better to spite the therapist for emphasising the patient's problems.\n\nMelanie Klein in her disputes with Anna Freud laid much greater emphasis than her opponent on the constructive role to be played by interpreting the negative transference. Jacques Lacan followed her theoretical lead in seeing \"the projection of what Melanie Klein calls \"bad internal objects\"\" as key to \"the negative transference that is the initial knot of the analytic drama\" - though he himself would face criticism for glossing over the negative transference in training analyses, to keep his analysands in dependence.\n\nW. R. D. Fairbairn was also more interested in the negative than the positive transference, which he saw as a key to the repetition and exposure of unconscious attachments to internalised bad objects. In his wake, object relations theorists have tended to stress the positive results that can emerge from working with the negative transference.\n\n\nDescribing the process of becoming the focus of a paranoid's hostility, C. P. Snow wrote:\n\n\"No one likes being hated: most of us are afraid of it: it jars to the bone when we meet hatred face to face.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "642330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=642330", "title": "Newtonian dynamics", "text": "Newtonian dynamics\n\nIn physics, the Newtonian dynamics is understood as the dynamics of a particle or a small body according to Newton's laws of motion.\n\nTypically, the Newtonian dynamics occurs in a three-dimensional Euclidean space, which is flat. However, in mathematics Newton's laws of motion can be generalized to multidimensional and curved spaces. Often the term Newtonian dynamics is narrowed to Newton's second law formula_1.\n\nLet's consider formula_2 particles with masses formula_3 in the regular three-dimensional Euclidean space. Let formula_4 be their radius-vectors in some inertial coordinate system. Then the motion of these particles is governed by Newton's second law applied to each of them\n\nThe three-dimensional radius-vectors formula_5 can be built into a single formula_6-dimensional radius-vector. Similarly, three-dimensional velocity vectors formula_7 can be built into a single formula_6-dimensional velocity vector:\n\nIn terms of the multidimensional vectors () the equations () are written as \n\ni.e. they take the form of Newton's second law applied to a single particle with the unit mass formula_9.\n\nDefinition. The equations () are called the\nequations of a Newtonian dynamical system in a flat multidimensional Euclidean space, which is called the configuration space of this system. Its points are marked by the radius-vector \nformula_10. The space whose points are marked by the pair of vectors formula_11 is called the phase space of the dynamical system ().\n\nThe configuration space and the phase space of the dynamical system () both are Euclidean spaces, i. e. they are equipped with a Euclidean structure. The\nEuclidean structure of them is defined so that the kinetic energy of the single multidimensional particle with the unit mass formula_9 is equal to the sum of kinetic energies of the three-dimensional particles with the masses formula_3:\nIn some cases the motion of the particles with the masses formula_3 can be constrained. Typical constraints look like scalar equations of the form \n\nConstraints of the form () are called holonomic and scleronomic. In terms of the radius-vector formula_10 of the Newtonian dynamical system () they are written as\n\nEach such constraint reduces by one the number of degrees of freedom of the Newtonian dynamical system (). Therefore the constrained system has formula_16 degrees of freedom.\n\nDefinition. The constraint equations () define an formula_17-dimensional manifold formula_18 within the configuration space of the Newtonian dynamical system (). This manifold formula_18 is called the configuration space of the constrained system. Its tangent bundle formula_20 is called the phase space of the constrained system.\n\nLet formula_21 be the internal coordinates of a point of formula_18. Their usage is typical for the Lagrangian mechanics. The radius-vector formula_10 is expressed as some definite function of formula_21:\n\nThe vector-function () resolves the constraint equations () in the sense that upon substituting () into () the equations () are fulfilled identically in formula_21.\n\nThe velocity vector of the constrained Newtonian dynamical system is expressed in terms of the partial derivatives of the vector-function\n\nThe quantities formula_26 are called internal components of the velocity vector. Sometimes they are denoted with the use of a separate symbol\n\nand then treated as independent variables. The quantities\n\nare used as internal coordinates of a point of the phase space formula_20 of the constrained Newtonian dynamical system.\n\nGeometrically, the vector-function () implements an embedding of the configuration space formula_18 of the constrained Newtonian dynamical system into the formula_29-dimensional flat comfiguration space of the unconstrained \nNewtonian dynamical system (). Due to this embedding the Euclidean structure of the ambient space induces the Riemannian metric onto the manifold formula_18. The components of the metric tensor of this induced metric are given by the formula\n\nwhere formula_31 is the scalar product associated with the Euclidean structure ().\n\nSince the Euclidean structure of an unconstrained system of formula_2 particles is entroduced through their kinetic energy, the induced Riemannian structure on the configuration space formula_2 of a constrained system preserves this relation to the kinetic energy:\n\nThe formula () is derived by substituting () into () and taking into account ().\n\nFor a constrained Newtonian dynamical system the constraints described by the equations () are usually implemented by some mechanical framework. This framework produces some auxiliary forces including the force that maintains the system within its configuration manifold formula_18. Such a maintaining force is perpendicular to formula_18. It is called the normal force. The force formula_36 from () is subdivided into two components\n\nThe first component in () is tangent to the configuration manifold formula_18. The second component is perpendicular to formula_18. In coincides with the normal force formula_39.<br>\nLike the velocity vector (), the tangent force \nformula_40 has its internal presentation\n\nThe quantities formula_41 in () are called the internal components of the force vector.\n\nThe Newtonian dynamical system () constrained to the configuration manifold formula_18 by the constraint equations () is described by the differential equations\n\nwhere formula_43 are Christoffel symbols of the metric connection produced by the Riemannian metric ().\n\nMechanical systems with constraints are usually described by Lagrange equations:\n\nwhere formula_44 is the kinetic energy the constrained dynamical system given by the formula (). The quantities formula_45 in \n() are the inner covariant components of the tangent force vector formula_46 (see () and ()). They are produced from the inner contravariant components formula_41 of the vector formula_46 by means of the standard index lowering procedure using the metric ():\n\nThe equations () are equivalent to the equations (). However, the metric () and\nother geometric features of the configuration manifold formula_18 are not explicit in (). The metric () can be recovered from the kinetic energy formula_50 by means of the formula\n"}
{"id": "1264904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1264904", "title": "Orbit Attitude and Maneuvering System", "text": "Orbit Attitude and Maneuvering System\n\nThe Orbit Attitude and Maneuvering System (OAMS) was a reaction control system used in Earth orbit by the Project Gemini spacecraft. It provided both automatic and manual rotation and translation by means of 16 vernier thrusters using hypergolic propellants.\n\nThe OAMS had 16 small, fixed-position, fixed-thrust rocket engines which burned hypergolic propellants (monomethylhydrazine fuel using nitrogen tetroxide as oxidizer) fed under pressure from a pair of tanks located in the aft Equipment Module. \nBesides providing attitude control, the OAMS provided for linear up, down, sideways, forward or aft translation of the spacecraft. This gave the spacecraft the capability to change its orbit, required for space rendezvous and docking with another spacecraft, the Agena Target Vehicle.\nThe system was also used to push the spacecraft away from the spent second stage of the Titan II launch vehicle on first reaching orbit.\n\n\nWalter Schirra said that because there is no turbulence in space, on Gemini 6 \"I was amazed at my ability to maneuver. I did a fly-around inspection of Gemini 7, literally flying rings around it, and I could move to within inches of it in perfect confidence\".\n\nDuring Gemini 8, on March 16, 1966, OAMS engine number 8 became stuck on, resulting in uncontrollable spinning of the spacecraft. The entire OAMS had to be shut down and the mission was terminated prematurely. This resulted in modifications to OAMS to permit engine isolation.\n\n"}
{"id": "972208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=972208", "title": "Other (philosophy)", "text": "Other (philosophy)\n\nIn phenomenology, the terms the Other and the Constitutive Other identify the other human being, in their differences from the Self, as being a cumulative, constituting factor in the self-image of a person; as their acknowledgement of being real; hence, the Other is dissimilar to and the opposite of the Self, of Us, and of the Same. The Constitutive Other is the relation between the personality (essential nature) and the person (body) of a human being; it is the relation of essential and superficial characteristics of personal identity that corresponds to the relationship between opposite but correlative characteristics of the Self, because the difference is inner-difference, within the Self.\n\nThe condition and quality of Otherness, the characteristics of the Other, is the state of being different from and alien to the social identity of a person and to the identity of the Self. In the discourse of philosophy, the term Otherness identifies and refers to the characteristics of \"Who?\" and \"What?\" of the Other, which are distinct and separate from the Symbolic order of things; from the Real (the authentic and unchangeable); from the æsthetic (art, beauty, taste); from political philosophy; from social norms and social identity; and from the Self. Therefore, the condition of Otherness is a person's non-conformity to and with the social norms of society; and Otherness is the condition of disenfranchisement (political exclusion), effected either by the State or by the social institutions (e.g. the professions) invested with the corresponding socio-political power. Therefore, the imposition of Otherness alienates the labelled person from the centre of society, and places him or her at the margins of society, for being the Other.\n\nThe term Othering describes the reductive action of labeling a person as someone who belongs to a subordinate social category defined as the Other. The practice of Othering is the exclusion of persons who do not fit the norm of the social group, which is a version of the Self. Likewise, in human geography, to \"other\" an individual identifies and excludes them from the social group, placing them at the margins of society where social norms do not apply.\n\nThe concept of the Self requires the existence of the Other as the counterpart entity required for defining the Self; in the late 18th century, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770–1831) introduced the concept of the Other as a constituent part of self-consciousness (preoccupation with the Self), which complements the propositions about self-awareness (capacity for introspection) proffered by Johann Gottlieb Fichte (1762–1814). See: \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\" (1807)\n\nEdmund Husserl (1859–1938) applied the concept of the Other as a basis for intersubjectivity, the psychological relations among people. In \"\" (1931), Husserl said that the Other is constituted as an \"alter ego\", as an other self. As such, the Other person posed and was an epistemological problem—of being only a perception of the consciousness of the Self.\n\nIn \"Being and Nothingness: An Essay on Phenomenological Ontology\" (1943), Jean-Paul Sartre (1905–1980) applied the dialectic of intersubjectivity to describe how the world is altered by the appearance of the Other, of how the world then appears to be oriented to the Other person, and not to the Self. The Other appears as a psychological phenomenon in the course of a person's life, and not as a radical threat to the existence of the Self. In that mode, in \"The Second Sex\" (1949), Simone de Beauvoir (1908–1986) applied the concept of Otherness to Hegel's dialectic of the \"Lord and Bondsman\" (\"Herrschaft und Knechtschaft\") and found it to be like the dialectic of the Man–Woman relationship, thus a true explanation for society's treatment and mistreatment of women.\n\nThe psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan (1901–1981) and the ethical philosopher Emmanuel Levinas (1906–1995) established the contemporary definitions, usages, and applications of the Other, as the radical counterpart of the Self. Lacan associated the Other with language and with the symbolic order of things. Levinas associated the Other with the ethical metaphysics of scripture and tradition; the ethical proposition is that the Other is superior and prior to the Self.\n\nIn the event, Levinas re-formulated the face-to-face encounter (wherein a person is responsible to the Other person) to include the propositions of Jacques Derrida (1930–2004) about the impossibility of the Other (person) being an entirely metaphysical pure-presence. That the Other could be an entity of pure Otherness (of alterity) personified in a representation created and depicted with language that identifies, describes, and classifies. The conceptual re-formulation of the nature of the Other also included Levinas's analysis of the distinction between \"the saying and the said\"; nonetheless, the nature of the Other retained the priority of ethics over metaphysics.\n\nIn the psychology of the mind (e.g. R. D. Laing), the Other identifies and refers to the unconscious mind, to silence, to insanity, and to language (\"to what is referred and to what is unsaid\"). Nonetheless, in such psychologic and analytic usages, there might arise a tendency to relativism if the Other person (as a being of pure, abstract alterity) leads to ignoring the commonality of truth. Likewise, problems arise from unethical usages of the terms The Other, Otherness, and Othering to reinforce ontological divisions of reality: of being, of becoming, and of existence.\n\nIn \"Totality and Infinity: An Essay on Exteriority\" (1961), Emmanuel Levinas said that previous philosophy had reduced the Other person to an object of consciousness, by not preserving its absolute \"alterity\"—the innate condition of otherness, by which the Other radically transcends the Self and the totality of the human network into which the Other is being placed. As a challenge to self-assurance, the existence of the Other is a matter of ethics, because the ethical priority of the Other equals the primacy of ethics over ontology in real life.\n\nFrom that perspective, Levinas described the nature of the Other as \"insomnia and wakefulness\"; an ecstasy (an exteriority) towards the Other that forever remains beyond any attempt at fully capturing the Other, whose Otherness is infinite; even in the murder of an Other, their Otherness remains uncontrolled and not negated. The infinity of the Other allowed Levinas to derive other aspects of philosophy and science as secondary to that ethic; thus:\n\nDerrida proposed that the absolute \"alterity\" of the Other is compromised because the Other is \"other than\" the Self and the group. That logical problem has especially negative consequences in the realm of human geography when the Other person is denied ethical priority in geopolitical discourse. Hence, the use of the language of Otherness in the anthropological discourse (Oriental Studies) about Western encounters with non–Western cultures preserves the dominantor–dominated discourse of hegemony, just as misrepresenting the feminine as Other reasserts male privilege as primary in social discourse.\n\nIn \"The Colonial Present: Afghanistan, Palestine and Iraq\" (2004), the geographer Derek Gregory said that the responses of U.S. President George W. Bush (2001–2009) to the terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001 reinforced philosophic divisions of connotation and denotation that perpetuated the negative representation of the non-Western Other, when he rhetorically asked the U.S. populace \"Why do they hate us?\" as political prelude to the War on Terror.\n\nPresident Bush's rhetorical question led the U.S. populace to make an artificial, Us-and-Them division in the relations between the U.S. and the countries and cultures of the Middle East, which artifice is a basic factor of the perpetual war on terrorism, and is a step away from eradicating the imaginary representations of the Self and the Other created with the Orientalist geographies produced by Oriental Studies; about which the cultural critic Edward Saïd said that:\n\nThe contemporary, world system of post-colonial, nation-states (with interdependent politics and economies) was preceded by the European imperial system of colonies (settler and economic) in which \"the creation and maintenance of an unequal economic, cultural, and territorial relationship, usually between states, and often in the form of an empire, [was] based on domination and subordination.\" In the imperialist world system, political and economic affairs were fragmented, and the discrete empires \"provided for most of their own needs ... [and disseminated] their influence solely through conquest [empire] or the threat of conquest [hegemony].\"\n\nThe imperial conquest of \"non-white\" countries was intellectually justified with the fetishization of the Eastern world, which was effected with cultural generalizations that divided the peoples of the world into the artificial, binary relationship of \"The Eastern World and The Western World\", the dichotomy which identified, designated, and subordinated the peoples of the Orient as the Other—as the non–European Self. The process of fetishization of people and things is a function of Orientalism, which the colonialist ideologue realises with three actions: (i) Homogenization (all Oriental peoples are the same folk); (ii) Feminization (Oriental people are the lessers in the East–West binary relationship); and (iii) Essentialization (a people reduced to the artificial essence of universal, innate characteristics); thus, the praxis of Othering reduced to cultural inferiority the people, places, and things of the Eastern world, which then justified colonialism by establishing the West as the superior standard of culture.\n\nThe practice of Othering was the prevalent cultural perspective of the European imperial powers, which was supported by the fabrications of scientific racism, such as the pseudo-intellectual belief that the size of the cranium of the non–European Other was indicative of the inferior intelligence of the coloured peoples designated as the non-white Other.\n\nIn 1951, the United Nations officially declared that the differences among the races were insignificant in relation to the anthropological sameness among the peoples who are the human race. Despite the facts, in the U.S., the artificial distinctions against the Other remain, especially in government forms that ask a U.S. citizen to identify and place him or herself into a racial category, as in the questionnaires of the census bureau. In practice of Othering, immigrants and refugees are seen as \"illegal immigrants\" (from overseas) and \"illegal aliens\" (from Mexico).\n\nMaintaining an empire requires the cultural subordination of the Other into the subaltern native (the colonized people), which facilitates the exploitation of their labour, of their lands, and of the natural resources of their country as a colony of the motherland. To realise those ends, the process of Othering culturally justifies the domination and subordination of the native people, by placing them (as the Other) at the social periphery of the geopolitical enterprise that is colonial imperialism. The colonizer creates the Other with a false dichotomy of \"native weakness\" (social and political, cultural and economic) against the \"colonial strength\" of imperial power, which can be resolved only with the \"noblesse oblige\" of racialism—the \"moral responsibility\" that psychologically authorizes the colonialist Self to unilaterally assume a civilizing mission to educate, convert, and culturally assimilate the Other into the empire.\n\nIn the praxis of colonialism, the native populace constitute the Other whom the colonizers mean to dominate in order to civilise and save them in the course of exploiting the natural and human resources of the natives' homeland. As such, a colony is a way to dominate and dispose of two groups of people (colonists and colonised) who can be used to define the Other. The practice of Othering establishes the unequal relationship between the native people and the colonizers, who believe themselves essentially superior to the natives whom they reduced to inhuman inferiority, as \"the Other\". The dehumanisation of colonialism—the colonist \"Self\" against the colonised \"Other\"—is maintained with the false binary-relations of social class and race, of sex and gender, and of nation and religion. The proper, profitable functioning of a colony features continual protection of such cultural demarcations, which establish and enforce the socio-economic binary relation between \"civilized man\" (the colonist) and \"savage man\" (the colonial subaltern).\n\nThe existential philosopher Simone de Beauvoir applied Hegel's conception of \"the Other\" (as a constituent part of self-consciousness) to describe a male-dominated culture that represents Woman as the sexual Other in relation to Man. In the cultural context of the Man–Woman binary relation, the sexual Other is a minority, the least-favoured social group, usually the women of the community, because \"a man represents both the positive and the neutral, as indicated by the common use of [the word] \"Man\" to designate human beings in general; whereas [the word] \"Woman\" represents only the negative, defined by limiting criteria, without reciprocity\" from the first sex, from Man. See: \"The Second Sex\" (1949)\n\nIn 1957, Betty Friedan substantiated the ordinate–subordinate nature of the Man–Woman sexual relation as social identity. When queried about their post-graduate lives, the majority of women interviewed, at a university-class reunion, used binary gender language, and referred to and identified themselves as their roles (wife, mother, manager) in the private sphere. They did not identify their own achievements (career, job, business) in the public sphere of life. Unawares, the women had conventionally automatically identified themselves as the social Other. Although the nature of the social Other is influenced by the society's social constructs (social class, sex, gender), as a human organisation, society holds the power (social and political) to formally change the social relation between the male-defined Self and \"Woman\", the non-male Other. See: \"The Feminine Mystique\" (1963)\n\nThe feminist philosopher Cheshire Calhoun deconstructed the concept of \"the Other\" as the female-half of the binary-gender relation of the \"Man and Woman\" concept. Deconstruction of the word \"Woman\"—from subordinate in the \"Man \"and\" Woman\" relation—conceptually reconstructed the female Other as the Woman who exists independently of male definition (rationalisation); independent of the patriarchy who formally realise female subordination with binary-gender usages of the word \"Woman\".\nIn the essay \"Feminism is Humanism. So Why the Debate?\" (2012), the academic Sarojini Sahoo, agrees with De Beauvoir's proposition that women can be free of social subordination by \"thinking, taking action, working, creating, on the same terms as men; instead of seeking to disparage them, she declares herself their equal.\" Yet counters De Beauvoir that despite having the same human-being status as men, women have a unique sexual identity different from men. In feminist definition, Women are the Other (but not the Hegelian Other) and are not existentially defined by the demands of Man. Women are the social Other who unknowingly accept subjugation as part of subjectivity. Whilst the identity of woman is constitutionally different from the identity of man, as human beings, men and women are equal. Hence, the harm of Othering arises from the asymmetric nature of sex and gender roles, which arises accidentally and \"passively\" from natural and unavoidable intersubjectivity.\n\nThe social-exclusion function of Othering a person or a social group from society, for being different from the norm (of the Self), is understood in the socio-economic functions of gender (a social construct) and sex (biological reality). In a society where heterosexuality is the social norm, \"the Other\" refers to and identifies the same-sex orientation, lesbians (women who love women) and gays (men who love men), people identified as \"deviant\" from the binary socio-sexual norm. Negative usages of \"the Other\" are applied to the lesbian and gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) communities to diminish their social status and political power by social Othering to the margins of society. To neutralise Othering, LGBT communities \"queer\" a city, create social spaces, that use the city's spatial and temporal plans to allow the LGBT community free expression of social identity (i.e. a gay-pride parade); as such, \"queering\" is a political means for the sexual Other to establish their reality as part of the urban body politic.\n\nRegarding the production of knowledge about the Other, Michel Foucault and the Frankfurt School identified the process of Othering as everything to do with the creation and maintenance of imaginary representations—\"knowledge of the Other\"—in service to geopolitical power and domination. The representations of the Other (metaphoric, metonymic, anthropomorphic) are manifestations of the Western cultural attitudes inherent to the European historiographies of the non–European peoples labelled as \"the Other\". Using analytical discourses (academic and commercial, geopolitical and military) the dominant ideology of the colonialist culture explains the Eastern world to the Western world, using the binary relationship of the European Self confronting the non–European Other from overseas.\n\nIn the 19th-century historiographies of the Orient as a place, European Orientalists studied only what they argued was the high culture—the languages and literatures, the arts and philologies—of the Middle East as a cultural region, rather than as a geopolitical place inhabited by different peoples and societies. About such cultural misrepresentation, Saïd said that \"the Orient that appears in Orientalism, then, is a system of representations framed by a whole set of forces that brought the Orient into Western learning, Western consciousness, and later, Western empire. If this definition of Orientalism seems more political than not, that is simply because I think Orientalism was, itself, a product of certain political forces and activities. Orientalism is a school of interpretation whose material happens to be the Orient, its civilisations, peoples, and localities. Its objective discoveries—the work of innumerable devoted scholars who edited texts and translated them, codified grammars, wrote dictionaries, reconstructed dead epochs, produced positivistically verifiable learning—are and always have been conditioned by the fact that its truths, like any truths delivered by language, are embodied in language, and, what is the truth of language?, Nietzsche once said, but\":\n\nSaïd concludes that Nietzsche's perspective might be too nihilistic, but that it draws attention to the fact that, in so far as \"the Orient\" occurred in the existential awareness of the Western world, the Orient was a word that later accrued to it a wide field of meanings, associations, and connotations, which did not refer to the real Eastern world, but to the field of study surrounding \"the Orient\" as a word.\n\nIn the Eastern world, the field of Occidentalism, the investigation programme and academic curriculum of and about the essence of The West—i.e. geographic Europe as a culturally homogenous place—did not exist as a counterpart to Orientalism. Moreover, in the Orientalist practices of historical negationism, the writing of distorted history about the places and peoples of \"The East\" continue in the postmodern era, especially in contemporary journalism; e.g. in the Third World, political parties practice intra-national Othering with fabricated \"facts\", such as threat-reports about non-existent threats (political, social, military) that are meant to aggravate the character faults of the opponent political parties, which usually are composed of people from the social and ethnic groups identified and designated as the Other in that society.\n\nThe process of Othering a person or a social group, by means of an ideal ethnocentricity (belief that one's ethnic group is the superior group), and the cultural tendency to evaluate and assign meaning to Other ethnicities, which are negatively measured against the ideal standard of the Self—is realised through mundane methods of investigation, such as cartography.\n\nHistorically, the drawing of maps emphasised and bolstered specific lands and the associated national-identities, the natural resources and cultures of the native inhabitants. In early cartography, the distortion (proportionate, proximate, and commercial) of actual places and true distances established the Western cartographer's homeland as the centre of the \"mapamundi\"; thus British cartographers centred Britain in their maps, and drew the British islands proportionally larger than the true geography might allow. In contemporary cartography, polar-perspective maps of the northern hemisphere, drawn by American cartographers, distort real geographic spatial relations (distance, size, mass) of and between the U.S. and Russia, to emphasise American superiority (military, cultural, geopolitical) and the inferiority of the Russian Other.\n\nIn \"Key Concepts in Political Geography\" (2009), Alison Mountz proposed concrete definitions of the Other as a philosophic concept and term within the field of phenomenology; when used as a noun, the Other identifies and refers to a person and to a group of persons; when used as a verb, the Other identifies and refers to a category and a label for persons and things.\n\nPost-colonial scholarship demonstrated that, in pursuit of empire, \"the colonizing powers narrated an 'Other' whom they set out to save, dominate, control, [and] civilize ... [in order to] extract resources through colonization\" of the homeland of the people labelled as the Other. As facilitated by Orientalist representations of the non–Western Other, colonisation—the economic exploitation of a people and their land—is misrepresented as being for the material, spiritual, and cultural benefit of the colonised peoples.\n\nCounter to the post-colonial perspective of the Other as part of a Dominator–Dominated binary relationship, post-modern philosophy presents the Other and Otherness as phenomenological and ontological progress for Man and society. Public knowledge of the social identity of peoples classified as \"Outsiders\" is \"de facto\" acknowledgement of their being real, and so they are part of the body politic, especially in the cities. As such, \"the post-modern city is a geographical celebration of difference that moves sites once conceived of as 'marginal' to the [social] centre of discussion and analysis\" of the human relations between the Outsiders and the Establishment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13793937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13793937", "title": "Paleohispanic scripts", "text": "Paleohispanic scripts\n\nThe Paleohispanic scripts are the writing systems created in the Iberian peninsula before the Latin alphabet became the dominant script. Most of them are unusual in that they are semi-syllabic rather than purely alphabetic, despite having supposedly developed, in part, from the Phoenician alphabet. \n\nPaleohispanic scripts are known to have been used from the 5th century BCE — possibly from the 7th century, in the opinion of some researchers — until the end of the 1st century BCE or the beginning of the 1st century CE, and were the main scripts used to write the Paleohispanic languages. Some researchers conclude that their origin may lie solely with the Phoenician alphabet, while others believe the Greek alphabet may have had also a role.\n\nThe Paleoiberian scripts are classified into three major groups: southern, northern, and Greco-Iberian, with differences both in the shapes of the glyphs and in their values. \n\nInscriptions in the southern scripts have been found mainly in the southern half of the Iberian Peninsula. They represent only 5% of the inscriptions found, and mostly read from right to left (like the Phoenician alphabet). They are:\n\n\nInscriptions in the northern scripts have been found mainly in the NE of the Iberian Peninsula. They represent 95% of the inscriptions found, and mostly read from left to right (like the Greek alphabet). They are:\n\n\nThe Greco-Iberian alphabet was a direct adaptation of the Ionic variety of the Greek alphabet, and only found in a small region on the Mediterranean coast in the modern provinces of Alicante and Murcia.\n\nExcepting the Greco-Iberian alphabet, and to a lesser extent the Tartessian (southwestern) script, Paleoiberian scripts shared a distinctive typology: They behaved as a syllabary for the plosives and as an alphabet for the rest of consonants. This unique writing system has been called a \"semi-syllabary\".\n\nIn the syllabic portions of the scripts, each plosive sign stood for a different combination of consonant and vowel, so that the written form of \"ga\" displayed no resemblance to \"ge\", and \"bi\" looked quite different from \"bo\". In addition, the original format did not distinguish voiced from unvoiced plosives, so that \"ga\" stood for both /ga/ and /ka/, and \"da\" stood for both /da/ and /ta/. \n\nOn the other hand, the continuants (fricative sounds like /s/ and sonorants like /l/, /m/, trills, and vowels) were written with simple alphabetic letters, as in Phoenician and Greek. \n\nOver the past few decades, many researchers have come to believe that one variant of the northeastern Iberian script, the older one according to the archaeological contexts, distinguished voicing in the plosives by adding a stroke to the glyphs for the alveolar (/d/~/t/) and velar (/g/~/k/) syllables, creating distinct glyphs for unvoiced /t/ and /k/, and restricting the original glyphs to voiced /d/ and /g/. (This is the so-called dual signary model: see northeastern Iberian script.) If correct, this innovation would parallel the creation of the Latin letter G by the addition of a stroke to C, which had previously stood for both /k/ and /g/.\n\nThe Tartessian script is typologically intermediate between a pure alphabet and the Paleohispanic semi-syllabaries. Although the letter used to write a plosive was determined by the following vowel, as in a semi-syllabary, the following vowel was also written, as in an alphabet. (See Tartessian language for an example.) This redundant typology re-emerged in a few late (2nd and 1st century BCE) texts of northeastern Iberian and Celtiberian scripts, where vowels were once again written after plosives. Some scholars treat Tartessian as a redundant semi-syllabary, with essentially syllabic glyphs followed by the letter for the corresponding vowel; others treat it as a redundant alphabet, with the choice of an essentially consonantal character decided by the following vowel.\n\nThis is analogous to the Old Persian cuneiform script, where vowels were most often written overtly but where consonants/syllables were decided by the vowel about half the time, and, to a very limited extent, to the Etruscan alphabet, where most syllables based the consonant /k/ shared neither consonant nor vowel letter: Only the combinations CE, CI, KA, and QU were permitted. (This Etruscan convention is preserved in the English, not only in \"qu\" for \"queen,\" but also the letter names \"cee, kay, cue/qu\".)\n\nThe paleoiberian semi-syllabaries clearly derive ultimately from an alphabet or alphabets circulating in the Mediterranean, but it is not known whether that was the Phoenician alphabet alone, or if archaic varieties of the Greek alphabet also played a role. \n\nThe only known full Paleoiberian signary, on the undated Espanca tablet (not completely readable, but clearly related to the southwestern and southeastern scripts), follows the Phoenician/Greek order for the first 13 of its 27 letters: Α Β Γ Δ Ι Κ Λ Μ Ν Ξ Π? Τ. The fact that southern paleohispanic /e/ appears to derive from the Phoenician letter ‘ayin, which gave rise to Greek Ο, while southern iberian /o/ derives from another letter or was perhaps invented, suggests that the development of vowels in paleoiberian semi-syllabaries was independent of the Greek innovation. However, the order of what appears to be /u/ directly after Τ, rather than at the place of , has suggested to some researchers a Greek influence. (In addition, the letter for /e/ in northeast Iberian resembles Greek Ε rather than the southeast Iberian letter.) The two sibilants, S and S', are attested, but there is one sign too few to account for a full 15-sign syllabary and all four of the letters M, M', R, and R' (not all of which can be positively identified with letters from the tablet), suggesting that one of ems or ars shown in the charts to the right is only a graphic variant. \n\nThe obvious question about the origin and evolution of these scripts is how a purely alphabetic script was changed into, or perhaps unconsciously reinterpreted as, a partial syllabary. It may be instructive to consider an unrelated development in the evolution of the Etruscan alphabet from Greek: Greek had three letters, Γ, Κ, and , whose sounds were not distinguished in Etruscan. Nonetheless, all three were borrowed, becoming the letters C, K, and Q. All were pronounced /k/, but they were restricted to appear before different vowels — CE, CI, KA, and QU, respectively, — so that the consonants carried almost as much weight in distinguishing these syllables as the vowels did. (This may have been an attempt to overtly indicate the vowel-dependent allophony of Etruscan /k/ with the extra Greek letters that were available.) When the Etruscan alphabet was later adapted to Latin, the letter C stood for both /k/ and /g/, as Etruscan had had no /g/ sound to maintain the original sound value of Greek Г. (Later a stroke was added to C, creating the new Latin letter G.). \n\nSomething similar may have happened during the evolution of the Paleoiberian scripts. If writing passed from the Phoenicians through the Tartessians, and the Tartessian language did not have a /g/ or a /d/, that would explain the absence of a distinction between /g/ and /k/, /d/ and /t/ in the southeastern Iberian and later northeast Iberian scripts, despite it being clear that these were distinct sounds in the Iberian language, as is clearly attested in the Greco-Iberian alphabet and later use of the Latin alphabet. In Tartessian script, vowels were always written after the plosives, but they were redundant — or at nearly so — and thus it seems they were dropped when the script passed to the Iberians. \n\nAmong the velar consonants, \"ka/ga\" of southeastern Iberian and the southwestern script derives from Phoenician/Greek Γ, \"ke/ge\" from Κ, and \"ki/gi\" from , while \"ko/go\" (perhaps coincidentally) resembles Greek Χ (pronounced ). Phoenician/Greek labial letter Β was the source of southwestern \"be\", southeastern \"ba\"; the use of Π is uncertain but may have been the source of \"bi.\" (If Greek was used as a secondary source, Greek Φ () would also have been available.) For the alveolars, Δ was the source of \"tu/du,\" Τ of \"ta/da,\" and Θ of \"ti/di.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23196", "title": "Particular", "text": "Particular\n\nIn metaphysics, particulars are defined as concrete, spatiotemporal entities as opposed to abstract entities, such as properties or numbers. There are, however, theories of \"abstract particulars\" or \"tropes\". For example, Socrates is a particular (there's only one Socrates-the-teacher-of-Plato and one cannot make copies of him, e.g., by cloning him, without introducing new, distinct particulars). Redness, by contrast, is not a particular, because it is abstract and multiply instantiated (for example a bicycle, an apple, and a given woman's hair can all be red).\n\nSybil Wolfram writes \nParticulars include only individuals of a certain kind: as a first approximation individuals with a definite place in space and time, such as persons and material objects or events, or which must be identified through such individuals, like smiles or thoughts.\n\nSome terms are used by philosophers with a rough-and-ready idea of their meaning. This can occur if there is lack of agreement about the best definition of the term. In formulating a solution to the problem of universals, the term 'particular' can be used to describe the \"particular\" instance of redness of a certain apple as opposed to the 'universal' 'redness' (being abstract).\n\nThe term particular is also used as a modern equivalent of the Aristotelian notion of individual substance. Used in this sense, particular can mean any concrete (individual) entity, irrespective of whether it is spatial and temporal or not.\n\n"}
{"id": "21799992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21799992", "title": "Peace ecology", "text": "Peace ecology\n\nThe term peace ecology has been used by Christos Kyrou of American University to describe a proposed theoretical framework that is intended to provide \"a better understanding, of the inherent capacities of the environment to inform and sustain peace.\"\n\nPeace ecology was introduced by Professor Christos Kyrou, of American University first in an article at the annual meeting of the International Studies Association, in San Diego, California, Mar 22, 2006. It was later published in its completed form in an article with the title Peace Ecology: An Emerging Paradigm In Peace Studies in The International Journal of Peace Studies, Volume 12 #1, 2007.\n\nWith a follow up article submitted for the Conference on Cutting Edge Theories and Recent Developments in Conflict Resolution, September 27 and 28, 2007, at Syracuse, NY, Dr. Kyrou examined various methodological perspectives from Peace Ecology.\n\nDr. Kyrou, together with his graduate and undergraduate students at the International Peace & Conflict Resolution Division of the School of International Service at The American University in Washington DC continue their effort to expand the practical and theoretical potential of Peace Ecology.\n\n"}
{"id": "42701243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42701243", "title": "Property (mathematics)", "text": "Property (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, a property is any characteristic that applies to a given set. Rigorously, a property \"p\" defined for all elements of a set \"X\" is usually defined as a function \"p\": \"X\" → {true, false}, that is true whenever the property holds; or equivalently, as the subset of \"X\" for which \"p\" holds; i.e. the set {\"x\" | \"p\"(\"x\") = true}; \"p\" is its indicator function. However, it may be objected that the rigorous definition defines merely the extension of a property, and says nothing about what causes the property to hold for exactly those values.\n\nExamples of properties include the commutative property of real and complex numbers and the distributive property.\n\n"}
{"id": "36071642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36071642", "title": "Public interest design", "text": "Public interest design\n\nPublic interest design is a human-centered and participatory design practice that places emphasis on the “triple bottom line” of sustainable design that includes ecological, economic, and social issues and on designing products, structures, and systems that address issues such as economic development and the preservation of the environment.\n\nStarting in the late 1990s, several books, convenings, and exhibitions have generated new momentum and investment in public interest design. Since then, public interest design—frequently described as a movement or field—has gained public recognition.\n\nPublic interest design grew out of the community design movement, which got its start in 1968 after American civil rights leader Whitney Young issued a challenge to attendees of the American Institute of Architects (AIA) national convention:\n\n\". . . \"you are not a profession that has distinguished itself by your social and civic contributions to the cause of civil rights, and I am sure this does not come to you as any shock. You are most distinguished by your thunderous silence and your complete irrelevance\".\"\n\nThe response to Young’s challenge was the establishment of community design centers (CDCs) across the United States. CDCs, which were often established with the support of area universities, provided a variety of design services – such as affordable housing - within their own neighborhoods.\n\nIn architecture schools, “design/build programs” provided outreach to meet local design needs, particularly in low-income and underserved areas. One of the earliest design/build programs was Yale University’s Vlock Building Project. The project, which was initiated by students at Yale University School of Architecture in 1967, requires graduate students to design and build low-income housing.\n\nOne of the most publicized programs is the Auburn University Rural Studio design/build program, which was founded in 1993. The Rural Studio’s first project, Bryant House, was completed in 1994 for $16,500.\n\nInterest in public interest design – particularly socially responsible architecture – began to grow during the 1990s and continued into the first decade of the new millennium. Conferences, books, and exhibitions began to showcase the design work being done beyond the community design centers, which had greatly decreased in numbers since their peak in the seventies.\n\nNon-profit organizations – including Architecture for Humanity, BaSiC Initiative, Design Corps, Public Architecture, Project H, Project Locus, and MASS Design Group – began to provide design services that served a larger segment of the population than had been served by traditional design professions.\n\nMany public interest design organizations also provide training and service-learning programs for architecture students and graduates. In 1999, the Enterprise Rose Architectural Fellowship was established, giving young architects the opportunity to work on three-year-long design and community development projects in low-income communities.\n\nTwo of the earliest formal public interest design programs include the Gulf Coast Community Design Studio at Mississippi State University and the Public Interest Design Summer Program at the University of Texas\n. In February 2015, Portland State University launched the first graduate certificate program in Public Interest Design in the United States.\n\nThe first professional-level training was conducted in July 2011 by the Public Interest Design Institute (PIDI) and held at the Harvard Graduate School of Design.\n\nAlso in 2011, a survey of American Institute of Architects (AIA), 77% of AIA members agreed that the mission of the professional practice of public interest design could be defined as the belief that every person should be able to live in a socially, economically, and environmentally healthy community.\n\nSeveral books have been published that showcase a variety of public interest design projects and practitioners:\n\n\nThe annual Structures for Inclusion conference showcases public interest design projects from around the world. The first conference, which was held in 2000, was called “Design for the 98% Without Architects.\" Speaking at the conference, Rural Studio co-founder Samuel Mockbee challenged attendees to serve a greater segment of the population: “I believe most of us would agree that American architecture today exists primarily within a thin band of elite social and economic conditions...in creating architecture, and ultimately community, it should make no difference which economic or social type is served, as long as the status quo of the actual world is transformed by an imagination that creates a proper harmony for both the affluent and the disadvantaged.\" \n\nIn 2007, the Cooper Hewitt National Design Museum held an exhibition, titled “Design for the Other 90%,” curated by Cynthia Smith. Following the success of this exhibit, Smith developed the \"Design Other 90\" initiative into an ongoing series, the second of which was titled “Design for the Other 90%: CITIES” (2011), held at the United Nations headquarters. In 2010, Andres Lipek of the Museum of Modern Art in New York curated an exhibit, called “Small Scale, Big Change: New Architectures of Social Engagement.”\n\nOne of the oldest professional networks related to public interest design is the professional organization is the Association for Community Design (ACD), which was founded in 1977.\n\nIn 2005, adopting a term coined by architect Kimberly Dowdell, the Social Economic Environmental Design (SEED) Network was co-founded by a group of community design leaders, during a meeting hosted by the Loeb Fellowship at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. The SEED Network established a common set of five principles and criteria for practitioners of public interest design. An evaluation tool called the SEED Evaluator is available to assist designers and practitioners in developing projects that align with SEED Network goals and criteria.\n\nIn 2006, the Open Architecture Network was launched by Architecture for Humanity in conjunction with co-founder Cameron Sinclair's TED Wish. Taking on the name Worldchanging in 2011, the network is an open-source community dedicated to improving living conditions through innovative and sustainable design. Designers of all persuasions can share ideas, designs and plans as well as collaborate and manage projects. while protecting their intellectual property rights using the Creative Commons \"some rights reserved\" licensing system.\n\nIn 2007, DESIGN 21: Social Design Network, an online platform built in partnership with UNESCO, was launched.\n\nIn 2011, the Design Other 90 Network was launched by the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, in conjunction with its Design with the Other 90%: CITIES exhibition.\n\nIn 2012, IDEO.org, with the support of The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, launched HCD Connect, a network for social sector leaders committed to human-centered design. In this context, human-centered design begins with the end-user of a product, place, or system — taking into account their needs, behaviors and desires. The fast-growing professional network of 15,000 builds on \"The Human-Centered Design Toolkit,\" which was designed specifically for people, nonprofits, and social enterprises that work with low-income communities throughout the world. People using the HCD Toolkit or human-centered design in the social sector now have a place to share their experiences, ask questions, and connect with others working in similar areas or on similar challenges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9774218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9774218", "title": "Religious views on the self", "text": "Religious views on the self\n\nReligious views on the self vary widely. The self is a complex and core subject in many forms of spirituality. In Western psychology, the concept of self comes from Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, and Carl Rogers where the self is the inner critic. Two types of self are commonly considered - the self that is the ego, also called the learned, superficial self of mind and body, \"false self\", an egoic creation, and the Self which is sometimes called the \"true self\", the \"Observing Self\", or the \"Witness\".\n\nSome Eastern philosophies reject the self as a delusion. In Buddhist psychology, the attachment to self is an illusion that serves as the main cause of suffering and unhappiness.\n\nHuman beings have a self—that is, they are able to look back on themselves as both subjects and objects in the universe. Ultimately, this brings questions about who we are and the nature of our own importance.\n\nChristianity sees the self negatively, distorted through sin: 'The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked; who can know it?' (Jeremiah 17:9) Alternately, each human self or spirit is a unique creation by God. The \"desperately wicked self\" is the sinful self that has chosen to be \"curved back upon itself\", but ever with the potential of changing and (by God's grace) turning toward \"'new life', opened out to love of God and neighbor\"\nSee Albert Outler as quoted in \"Outler on the Holy Spirit\" by George Aikinson, Bristol House, 2004 p. 54. and p. 87.\n\nAccording to psychologist James Marcia, identity comes from both political and religious views. Marcia also identified exploration and commitment as interactive parts of identity formation, which includes religious identity. Erik Erikson compared faith with doubt and found that healthy adults take heed to their spiritual side.\n\nOne description of spirituality is the self's search for \"ultimate meaning\" through an independent comprehension of the sacred. Spiritual identity appears when the symbolic religious and spiritual of a culture is found by individuals in the setting of their own life. There can be different types of spiritual self because it is determined on one's life and experiences. Another definition of spiritual identity is \" a persistent sense of self that addresses ultimate questions about the nature, purpose, and meaning of life, resulting in behaviors that are consonant with the individual’s core values.\" \nAnother description of Mind, body, soul, and spirit is a holism of one inner self being of one whole. It all combines together as one whole instead of different parts. Individuals one thoughts, one feeling, one breathing is all completed and occurs as one whole. GT </truth knowledge of one self, and the universe.\n\nAccording to Abraham Maslow's theory of \"self-actualization needs: to find self fulfillment and realize one's potential.\" He thought that once a person realizes what they are capable of it gives them a motivation to do whatever they intend.\n\nAlbert Bandura believed in \"self-efficacy, which refers to a person's learned expectations of success.\" This theory states that people are bound to complete a task more effectively if they think they will succeed. If a person is more negative about their abilities the chances of them completing the task accordingly are less.\n\nD. W. Winnicott was of the opinion that psychopathology was in large part generated by an overvaluation of the false self, at the expense of the true self which was linked to the individual's own creativity.\n\nCarl Rogers' theory is that \"people use the term self concept to refer to all the information and beliefs you have as an individual regarding your own nature, unique qualities, and typical behaviors.\" Rogers thought that people develop through relationships with others and also in relation to themselves. An encouraging environment helps people towards this development.\n\nCommenting on his clients' search for a real self, Rogers quoted with approval Kierkegaard's statement that \"the most common despair is to be in despair at not choosing, or willing, to be oneself; but that the deepest form of despair is to choose 'to be another than himself'. On the other hand, 'to will to be that self which one truly is, is indeed the opposite of despair'\".\n\nThe \"Visible\" self is mainly dependent on a subjective view, that is, as viewed from the specific self. For example: looking in the mirror, we perceive the reflection to be our true \"self\"...\n\nKen Wilber describes the Witnessing (or Observing) Self in the following terms: \nHe adds that the Self is not an Emergent, but an aspect present from the start as the basic form of awareness, but which becomes increasingly obvious and self-aware \"as growth and transcendence matures.\" As Depth increases, consciousness shines forth more noticeably, until:\n\nIn a similar vein, Evelyn Underhill states: \"It is clear that under ordinary conditions, and save for sudden gusts of \"Transcendental Feeling\" induced by some saving madness such as Religion, Art, or Love, the superficial self knows nothing of the attitude of this silent watcher—this \"Dweller in the Innermost\"—towards the incoming messages of the external world: nor of the activities which they awake in it. Concentrated on the sense-world, and the messages she receives from it, she knows nothing of the relations which exist between this subject and the unattainable Object of all thought. But by a deliberate inattention to the messages of the senses, such as that which is induced by contemplation, the mystic can bring the ground of the soul, the seat of \"Transcendental Feeling,\" within the area of consciousness: making it amenable to the activity of the will. Thus becoming unaware of his usual and largely fictitious \"external world,\" another and more substantial set of perceptions, which never have their chance under normal conditions, rise to the surface. Sometimes these unite with the normal reasoning faculties. More often, they supersede them. Some such exchange, such \"losing to find,\" appears to be necessary, if man's transcendental powers are to have their full chance.\"\n"}
{"id": "5963113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5963113", "title": "Space of flows", "text": "Space of flows\n\nThe space of flows is a high-level cultural abstraction of space and time, and their dynamic interactions with digital age society. The concept was created by the sociologist and cybernetic culture theoretician Manuel Castells to \"reconceptualize new forms of spatial arrangements under the new technological paradigm\"; a new type of space that allows distant synchronous, real-time interaction (Castells, p. 146). The space of flows first was mentioned in \"The Informational City: Information Technology, Economic Restructuring, and the Urban Regional Process\" (1989).\n\nCastells defines the concepts as follows: \"The material arrangements that allow for simultaneity of social practices without territorial contiguity. It is not purely electronic space...It is made up first of all of an technological infrastructure of information systems, telecommunications, and transportation lines\" (Castells, Manuel (2000): Grassrooting the Space of Flows, hg. von. James O. Wheeler, Yuko Aoyama und Barney Warf, London: Routledge, p.19).\n\nTraditionally, the concept of space is considered a passive entity, while time is considered a separate and active entity. Space should not be disconnected from time, because space is a dynamic entity related to time. Castells rejected the contention that space will disappear upon the creation of the global city, because space is \"the material support of time-sharing social practices\". Thus, the \"space of flows\" is \"the material organization of time-sharing social practices that work through flows\" (Castells, p. 147).\n\nIn 2001, Castells wrote: \"the space of flows ... links up distant locales around shared functions and meanings on the basis of electronic circuits and fast transportation corridors, while isolating and subduing the logic of experience embodied in the space of places\" (\"Informationalism and the Network Society\" in \"The Hacker Ethic and the Spirit of the Information Age\" (2001), by Pekka Himanen, New York, Random House pp. 155–78).\n\nSpace is the physical support of the way people live in time. \"Real world time\", the space-and-time to which people are accustomed, is the \"space of places\", which is unlike the \"space of flows\" because it lacks the three elements of (i) a proper flow medium, (ii) the proper items composing the flow traversing through it, and (iii) the organisational nodes through which these flows circulate (Stalder, p. 3). The space of flows concept comprehends human action and interaction occurring dynamically and at a distance—effected via telecommunications technology containing continuous flows of time-sensitive communications, and the nodes of global computer systems. These informational flows connect people to a continuous, real-time cybernetic community that differs from the global village because the groups' positions in time become more important than their places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "150135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150135", "title": "Spontaneous generation", "text": "Spontaneous generation\n\nSpontaneous generation refers to an obsolete body of thought on the ordinary formation of living organisms without descent from similar organisms. The theory of spontaneous generation held that living creatures could arise from nonliving matter and that such processes were commonplace and regular. For instance, it was hypothesized that certain forms such as fleas could arise from inanimate matter such as dust, or that maggots could arise from dead flesh. A variant idea was that of equivocal generation, in which species such as tapeworms arose from unrelated living organisms, now understood to be their hosts. The idea of univocal generation, by contrast, refers to effectively exclusive reproduction from genetically related parent(s), generally of the same species.\n\nThe doctrine of spontaneous generation was coherently synthesized by Aristotle, who compiled and expanded the work of earlier natural philosophers and the various ancient explanations for the appearance of organisms, and was taken as scientific fact for two millennia. Though challenged in the 17th and 18th centuries by the experiments of Francesco Redi and Lazzaro Spallanzani, spontaneous generation was not disproved until the work of Louis Pasteur and John Tyndall in the mid-19th century.\n\nRejection of spontaneous generation is no longer controversial among biologists. By the middle of the 19th century, experiments of Louis Pasteur and others refuted the traditional theory of spontaneous generation and supported biogenesis.\n\nSpontaneous generation refers both to the supposed processes by which different types of life might repeatedly emerge from specific sources other than seeds, eggs, or parents, and also to theoretical principles presented in support of any such phenomena. Crucial to this doctrine are the ideas that life comes from non-life and that no causal agent, such as a parent, is needed. The hypothetical processes by which life routinely emerges from nonliving matter on a time scale of minutes, weeks, or years (e.g. in the supposed seasonal generation of mice and other animals from the mud of the Nile) are sometimes referred to as \"abiogenesis\". Such ideas have no operative principles in common with the modern hypothesis of abiogenesis, which asserts that life emerged in the early ages of the planet, over a time span of at least millions of years, and subsequently diversified, and that there is no evidence of any subsequent repetition of the event.\n\nThe term \"equivocal generation\", sometimes known as \"heterogenesis\" or \"xenogenesis\", describes the supposed process by which one form of life arises from a different, unrelated form, such as tapeworms from the bodies of their hosts.\n\nIn the years following Louis Pasteur's 1859 experiment, the term \"spontaneous generation\" fell increasingly out of favor. Experimentalists used a variety of terms for the study of the origin of life from nonliving materials. \"Heterogenesis\" was applied to the generation of living things from once-living organic matter (such as boiled broths), and Henry Charlton Bastian proposed the term \"archebiosis\" for life originating from inorganic materials. Disliking the randomness and unpredictability implied by the term \"'spontaneous' generation,\" in 1870 Bastian coined the term \"biogenesis\" to refer to the formation of life from nonliving matter. Soon thereafter, however, English biologist Thomas Henry Huxley proposed the term \"abiogenesis\" to refer to this same process and adopted \"biogenesis\" for the process by which life arises from existing life; it is this latter set of definitions that became dominant.\n\nActive in the 6th and 5th centuries BCE, early Greek philosophers, called \"physiologoi\" in antiquity (Greek: φυσιολόγοι; in English, physical or natural philosophers), attempted to give natural explanations of phenomena that had previously been ascribed to the agency of the gods. The \"physiologoi\" sought the material principle or \"arche\" (Greek: ἀρχή) of things, emphasizing the rational unity of the external world and rejecting theological or mythological explanations. \n\nAnaximander, who believed that all things arose from the elemental nature of the universe, the \"apeiron\" (ἄπειρον) or the \"unbounded\" or \"infinite,\" was likely the first western thinker to propose that life developed spontaneously from nonliving matter. The primal chaos of the \"apeiron,\" eternally in motion, served as a substratum in which elemental opposites (e.g., wet and dry, hot and cold) generated and shaped the many and varied things in the world. According to Hippolytus of Rome in the third century CE, Anaximander claimed that fish or fish-like creatures were first formed in the \"wet\" when acted on by the heat of the sun and that these aquatic creatures gave rise to human beings. Censorinus, writing in the 3rd century, reports:\n\nAnaximenes, a pupil of Anaximander, thought that air was the element that imparted life and endowed creatures with motion and thought. He proposed that plants and animals, including human beings, arose from a primordial terrestrial slime, a mixture of earth and water, combined with the sun's heat. Anaxagoras, too, believed that life emerged from a terrestrial slime. However, he held that the seeds of plants existed in the air from the beginning, and those of animals in the aether. Xenophanes traced the origin of man back to the transitional period between the fluid stage of the earth and the formation of land, under the influence of the sun.\n\nIn what has occasionally been seen as a prefiguration of a concept of natural selection, Empedocles accepted the spontaneous generation of life but held that different forms, made up of differing combinations of parts, spontaneously arose as though by trial and error: successful combinations formed the species we now see, whereas unsuccessful forms failed to reproduce.\n\nIn his biological works, the natural philosopher Aristotle theorized extensively the reproduction of various animals, whether by sexual, parthenogenetic, or spontaneous generation. In accordance with his fundamental theory of hylomorphism, which held that every physical entity was a compound of matter and form, Aristotle's basic theory of sexual reproduction contended that the male's seed imposed form, the set of characteristics passed down to offspring on the \"matter\" (menstrual blood) supplied by the female. Thus female matter is the material cause of generation—it supplies the matter that will constitute the offspring—while the male semen is the efficient cause, the factor that instigates and delineates the thing's existence. Yet, as proposed in the \"History of Animals\", many creatures form not through sexual processes but by spontaneous generation:\n\nAccording to this theory, living things may come forth from nonliving things in a manner roughly analogous to the \"enformation of the female matter by the agency of the male seed\" seen in sexual reproduction. Nonliving materials, like the seminal fluid present in sexual generation, contain \"pneuma\" (πνεῦμα, \"breath\"), or \"vital heat\". According to Aristotle, pneuma had more \"heat\" than regular air did, and this heat endowed the substance with certain vital properties:\nAristotle drew an analogy between the \"foamy matter\" (τὸ ἀφρῶδες) found in nature and the \"seed\" of an animal, which he viewed as being a kind of foam itself (composed, as it was, from a mixture of water and pneuma). For Aristotle, the generative materials of male and female animals (semen and menstrual blood) were essentially refinements, made by male and female bodies according to their respective proportions of heat, of ingested food, which was, in turn, a byproduct of the elements earth and water. Thus any creature, whether generated sexually from parents or spontaneously through the interaction of vital heat and elemental matter, was dependent on the proportions of pneuma and the various elements which Aristotle believed comprised all things. While Aristotle recognized that many living things emerged from putrefying matter, he pointed out that the putrefaction was not the source of life, but the byproduct of the action of the \"sweet\" element of water.\n\nWith varying degrees of observational confidence, Aristotle theorized the spontaneous generation of a range of creatures from different sorts of inanimate matter. The testaceans (a genus which for Aristotle included bivalves and snails), for instance, were characterized by spontaneous generation from mud, but differed based upon the precise material they grew in—for example, clams and scallops in sand, oysters in slime, and the barnacle and the limpet in the hollows of rocks.\n\nVitruvius, a Roman architect and writer of the 1st century BCE, advised that libraries be placed facing eastwards to benefit from morning light, but not towards the south or the west as those winds generate bookworms.\n\nAristotle claimed that eels were lacking in sex and lacking milt, spawn and the passages for either. Rather, he asserted eels emerged from earthworms. Later authors dissented. Pliny the Elder did not argue against the anatomic limits of eels, but stated that eels reproduce by budding, scraping themselves against rocks, liberating particles that become eels. Athenaeus described eels as entwining and discharging a fluid which would settle on mud and generate life. On the other hand, Athenaeus also dissented towards spontaneous generation, claiming that a variety of anchovy did not generate from roe, as Aristotle stated, but rather, from sea foam.\n\nAs the dominant view of philosophers and thinkers continued to be in favour of spontaneous generation, some Christian theologians accepted the view. Augustine of Hippo discussed spontaneous generation in \"The City of God\" and \"The Literal Meaning of Genesis\", citing Biblical passages such as \"Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life\" () as decrees that would enable ongoing creation.\n\nFrom the fall of the Roman Empire in 5th century to the East-West Schism in 1054, the influence of Greek science declined, although spontaneous generation generally went unchallenged. New descriptions were made. Of the numerous beliefs, some had doctrinal implications outside of the Book of Genesis. For example, the idea that a variety of bird known as the \"barnacle goose\" emerged from a crustacean known as the \"goose barnacle\", had implications on the practice of fasting during Lent. In 1188, Gerald of Wales, after having traveled in Ireland, argued that the \"unnatural\" generation of barnacle geese was evidence for the virgin birth. Where the practice of fasting during Lent allowed fish, but prohibited fowl, the idea that the goose was in fact a fish suggested that its consumption be permitted during Lent. The practice was eventually prohibited by decree of Pope Innocent III in 1215.\n\nAristotle, in Arabic translation, was reintroduced to Western Europe. During the 13th century, Aristotle reached his greatest acceptance. With the availability of Latin translations Saint Albertus Magnus and his student, Saint Thomas Aquinas, raised Aristotelianism to its greatest prominence. Albert wrote a paraphrase of Aristotle, \"De causis et processu universitatis\", in which he removed some and incorporated other commentaries by Arabic scholars. The influential writings of Aquinas, on both the physical and metaphysical, are predominantly Aristotelian, but show numerous other influences.\n\nSpontaneous generation is discussed as a fact in literature well into the Renaissance. Where, in passing, Shakespeare discusses snakes and crocodiles forming from the mud of the Nile (), Izaak Walton again raises the question of the origin of eels \"as rats and mice, and many other living creatures, are bred in Egypt, by the sun's heat when it shines upon the overflowing of the river...\". While the ancient question of the origin of eels remained unanswered and the additional idea that eels reproduced from corruption of age was mentioned, the spontaneous generation of rats and mice engendered no debate.\n\nThe Dutch biologist and microscopist Jan Swammerdam (1637 - 1680) rejected the concept that one animal could arise from another or from putrification by chance because it was impious and like others found the concept of spontaneous generation irreligious, and he associated it with atheism and Godless opinion.\n\nJan Baptist van Helmont (1580–1644) used experimental techniques, such as growing a willow for five years and showing it increased mass while the soil showed a trivial decrease in comparison. As the process of photosynthesis was not understood, he attributed the increase of mass to the absorption of water. His notes also describe a recipe for mice (a piece of soiled cloth plus wheat for 21 days) and scorpions (basil, placed between two bricks and left in sunlight). His notes suggest he may even have done these things.\n\nWhere Aristotle held that the embryo was formed by a coagulation in the uterus, William Harvey (1578 – 1657) by way of dissection of deer, showed that there was no visible embryo during the first month. Although his work predated the microscope, this led him to suggest that life came from invisible eggs. In the frontispiece of his book \"Exercitationes de Generatione Animalium\" (\"Essays on the Generation of Animals\"), he made an expression of biogenesis: \"omnia ex ovo\" (everything from eggs).\n\nThe ancient beliefs were subjected to testing. In 1668, Francesco Redi challenged the idea that maggots arose spontaneously from rotting meat. In the first major experiment to challenge spontaneous generation, he placed meat in a variety of sealed, open, and partially covered containers. Realizing that the sealed containers were deprived of air, he used \"fine Naples veil\", and observed no worm on the meat, but they appeared on the cloth. Redi used his experiments to support the preexistence theory put forth by the Church at that time, which maintained that living things originated from parents. In scientific circles Redi's work very soon had great influence, as evidenced in a letter from John Ray in 1671 to members of the Royal Society of London:\n\nPier Antonio Micheli, around 1729, observed that when fungal spores were placed on slices of melon the same type of fungi were produced that the spores came from, and from this observation he noted that fungi did not arise from spontaneous generation.\n\nIn 1745, John Needham performed a series of experiments on boiled broths. Believing that boiling would kill all living things, he showed that when sealed right after boiling, the broths would cloud, allowing the belief in spontaneous generation to persist. His studies were rigorously scrutinized by his peers and many of them agreed.\n\nLazzaro Spallanzani modified the Needham experiment in 1768, attempting to exclude the possibility of introducing a contaminating factor between boiling and sealing. His technique involved boiling the broth in a sealed container with the air partially evacuated to prevent explosions. Although he did not see growth, the exclusion of air left the question of whether air was an essential factor in spontaneous generation. However, by that time there was already widespread scepticism among major scientists, to the principle of spontaneous generation. Observation was increasingly demonstrating that whenever there was sufficiently careful investigation of mechanisms of biological reproduction, it was plain that processes involved basing of new structures on existing complex structures, rather from chaotic muds or dead materials. Joseph Priestley, after he had fled to America and not long before his death, wrote a letter that was read to the American Philosophical Society in 1803. It said in part:\n\nIn 1837, Charles Cagniard de la Tour, a physicist, and Theodor Schwann, one of the founders of cell theory, published their independent discovery of yeast in alcoholic fermentation. They used the microscope to examine foam left over from the process of brewing beer. Where Leeuwenhoek described \"small spheroid globules\", they observed yeast cells undergo cell division. Fermentation would not occur when sterile air or pure oxygen was introduced if yeast were not present. This suggested that airborne microorganisms, not spontaneous generation, was responsible.\n\nHowever, although the idea of spontaneous generation had been in decline for nearly a century, its supporters did not abandon it all at once. As James Rennie wrote:\n\nLouis Pasteur's 1859 experiment is widely seen as having settled the question of spontaneous generation. He boiled a meat broth in a flask that had a long neck that curved downward, like that of a goose or swan. The idea was that the bend in the neck prevented falling particles from reaching the broth, while still allowing the free flow of air. The flask remained free of growth for an extended period. When the flask was turned so that particles could fall down the bends, the broth quickly became clouded. However, minority objections were persistent and not always unreasonable, given that the experimental difficulties were far more challenging than the popular accounts suggest. The investigations of John Tyndall, a correspondent of Pasteur and a great admirer of Pasteur's work, were decisive in disproving spontaneous generation and dealing with lingering issues. Still, even Tyndall encountered difficulties in dealing with the effects of microbial spores, which were not well understood in his day. Like Pasteur, he boiled his cultures to sterilize them, and some types of bacterial spores can survive boiling. The autoclave, which eventually came into universal application in medical practice and microbiology to sterilise equipment, was not an instrument that had come into use at the time of Tyndall's experiments, let alone those of Pasteur.\n\nIn 1862, the French Academy of Sciences paid a special attention to the issue and established a prize \"to him who by well-conducted experiments throws new light on the question of the so-called spontaneous generation\" and appointed a commission to judge the winner.\n\n"}
{"id": "54420884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54420884", "title": "Surveillance Camera Code of Practice", "text": "Surveillance Camera Code of Practice\n\nThe Surveillance Camera Code of Practice is a code of practice devoted to the operation of CCTV systems in the United Kingdom. It was introduced under Section 30 (1) (a) of the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012.\n\nThe office of the Surveillance Camera Commissioner was created to support it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2181360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2181360", "title": "Tarski's axioms", "text": "Tarski's axioms\n\nTarski's axioms, due to Alfred Tarski, are an axiom set for the substantial fragment of Euclidean geometry that is formulable in first-order logic with identity, and requiring no set theory (i.e., that part of Euclidean geometry that is formulable as an elementary theory). Other modern axiomizations of Euclidean geometry are Hilbert's axioms and Birkhoff's axioms.\n\nEarly in his career Tarski taught geometry and researched set theory. His coworker Steven Givant (1999) explained Tarski's take-off point:\nGivant then says that \"with typical thoroughness\" Tarski devised his system:\n\nLike other modern axiomatizations of Euclidean geometry, Tarski's employs a formal system consisting of symbol strings, called sentences, whose construction respects formal syntactical rules, and rules of proof that determine the allowed manipulations of the sentences. Unlike some other modern axiomatizations, such as Birkhoff's and Hilbert's, Tarski's axiomatization has no primitive objects other than \"points\", so a variable or constant cannot refer to a line or an angle. Because points are the only primitive objects, and because Tarski's system is a first-order theory, it is not even possible to define lines as sets of points. The only primitive relations (predicates) are \"betweenness\" and \"congruence\" among points.\n\nTarski's axiomatization is shorter than its rivals, in a sense Tarski and Givant (1999) make explicit. It is more concise than Pieri's because Pieri had only two primitive notions while Tarski introduced three: point, betweenness, and congruence. Such economy of primitive and defined notions means that Tarski's system is not very convenient for \"doing\" Euclidean geometry. Rather, Tarski designed his system to facilitate its analysis via the tools of mathematical logic, i.e., to facilitate deriving its metamathematical properties. Tarski's system has the unusual property that all sentences can be written in universal-existential form, a special case of the prenex normal form. This form has all universal quantifiers preceding any existential quantifiers, so that all sentences can be recast in the form formula_1 This fact allowed Tarski to prove that Euclidean geometry is decidable: there exists an algorithm which can determine the truth or falsity of any sentence. Tarski's axiomatization is also complete. This does not contradict Gödel's first incompleteness theorem, because Tarski's theory lacks the expressive power needed to interpret Robinson arithmetic .\n\nAlfred Tarski worked on the axiomatization and metamathematics of Euclidean geometry intermittently from 1926 until his death in 1983, with Tarski (1959) heralding his mature interest in the subject. The work of Tarski and his students on Euclidean geometry culminated in the monograph Schwabhäuser, Szmielew, and Tarski (1983), which set out the 10 axioms and one axiom schema shown below, the associated metamathematics, and a fair bit of the subject. Gupta (1965) made important contributions, and Tarski and Givant (1999) discuss the history.\n\nThese axioms are a more elegant version of a set Tarski devised in the 1920s as part of his investigation of the metamathematical properties of Euclidean plane geometry. This objective required reformulating that geometry as a first-order theory. Tarski did so by positing a universe of points, with lower case letters denoting variables ranging over that universe. Equality is provided by the underlying logic (see First-order logic#Equality and its axioms). Tarski then posited two primitive relations:\n\nBetweenness captures the affine aspect of Euclidean geometry; congruence, its metric aspect. The background logic includes identity, a binary relation. The axioms invoke identity (or its negation) on five occasions.\n\nThe axioms below are grouped by the types of relation they invoke, then sorted, first by the number of existential quantifiers, then by the number of atomic sentences. The axioms should be read as universal closures; hence any free variables should be taken as tacitly universally quantified.\n\n\n\n\nWhile the congruence relation formula_5 is, formally, a 4-way relation among points, it may also be thought of, informally, as a binary relation between two line segments formula_6 and formula_7. The \"Reflexivity\" and \"Transitivity\" axioms above, combined, prove both:\n\nThe \"transitivity\" axiom asserts that congruence is Euclidean, in that it respects the first of Euclid's \"common notions\".\n\nThe \"Identity of Congruence\" axiom states, intuitively, that if \"xy\" is congruent with a segment that begins and ends at the same point,\"x\" and \"y\" are the same point. This is closely related to the notion of reflexivity for binary relations.\n\nThe only point on the line segment formula_15 is formula_16 itself.\n\nThe two diagonals of the quadrilateral formula_18 must intersect at some point.\nLet φ(\"x\") and ψ(\"y\") be first-order formulae containing no free instances of either \"a\" or \"b\". Let there also be no free instances of \"x\" in ψ(\"y\") or of \"y\" in φ(\"x\"). Then all instances of the following schema are axioms:\nLet \"r\" be a ray with endpoint \"a\". Let the first order formulae φ and ψ define subsets \"X\" and \"Y\" of \"r\", such that every point in \"Y\" is to the right of every point of \"X\" (with respect to \"a\"). Then there exists a point \"b\" in \"r\" lying between \"X\" and \"Y\". This is essentially the Dedekind cut construction, carried out in a way that avoids quantification over sets.\n\nThere exist three noncollinear points. Without this axiom, the theory could be modeled by the one-dimensional real line, a single point, or even the empty set.\n\nThree points equidistant from two distinct points form a line. Without this axiom, the theory could be modeled by three-dimensional or higher-dimensional space.\n\nEach of the three variants of this axiom, all equivalent over the remaining Tarski's axioms to Euclid's parallel postulate, has an advantage over the others:\n\nLet a line segment join the midpoint of two sides of a given triangle. That line segment will be half as long as the third side. This is equivalent to the interior angles of any triangle summing to two right angles.\n\nGiven any triangle, there exists a circle that includes all of its vertices.\nGiven any angle and any point \"v\" in its interior, there exists a line segment including \"v\", with an endpoint on each side of the angle.\n\n\nBegin with two triangles, \"xuz\" and \"x'u'z'.\" Draw the line segments \"yu\" and \"y'u',\" connecting a vertex of each triangle to a point on the side opposite to the vertex. The result is two divided triangles, each made up of five segments. If four segments of one triangle are each congruent to a segment in the other triangle, then the fifth segments in both triangles must be congruent.\n\nFor any point \"y\", it is possible to draw in any direction (determined by \"x\") a line congruent to any segment \"ab\".\n\nStarting from two primitive relations whose fields are a dense universe of points, Tarski built a geometry of line segments. According to Tarski and Givant (1999: 192-93), none of the above axioms are fundamentally new. The first four axioms establish some elementary properties of the two primitive relations. For instance, Reflexivity and Transitivity of Congruence establish that congruence is an equivalence relation over line segments. The Identity of Congruence and of Betweenness govern the trivial case when those relations are applied to nondistinct points. The theorem \"xy\"≡\"zz\" ↔ \"x\"=\"y\" ↔ \"Bxyx\" extends these Identity axioms.\n\nA number of other properties of Betweenness are derivable as theorems including:\nThe last two properties totally order the points making up a line segment.\n\nUpper and Lower Dimension together require that any model of these axioms have a specific finite dimensionality. Suitable changes in these axioms yield axiom sets for Euclidean geometry for dimensions 0, 1, and greater than 2 (Tarski and Givant 1999: Axioms 8, 8, 9, 9, 9 ). Note that solid geometry requires no new axioms, unlike the case with Hilbert's axioms. Moreover, Lower Dimension for \"n\" dimensions is simply the negation of Upper Dimension for \"n\" - 1 dimensions.\n\nWhen dimension > 1, Betweenness can be defined in terms of congruence (Tarski and Givant, 1999). First define the relation \"≤\" (where formula_27 is interpreted \"the length of line segment formula_28 is less than or equal to the length of line segment formula_29\"):\nIn the case of two dimensions, the intuition is as follows: For any line segment \"xy\", consider the possible range of lengths of \"xv\", where \"v\" is any point on the perpendicular bisector of \"xy\". It is apparent that while there is no upper bound to the length of \"xv\", there is a lower bound, which occurs when \"v\" is the midpoint of \"xy\". So if \"xy\" is shorter than or equal to \"zu\", then the range of possible lengths of \"xv\" will be a superset of the range of possible lengths of \"zw\", where \"w\" is any point on the perpendicular bisector of \"zu\".\n\nBetweenness can then be defined by using the intuition that the shortest distance between any two points is a straight line:\n\nThe Axiom Schema of Continuity assures that the ordering of points on a line is complete (with respect to first-order definable properties). The Axioms of Pasch and Euclid are well known. Remarkably, Euclidean geometry requires just the following further axioms:\nLet \"wff\" stand for a well-formed formula (or syntactically correct formula) of elementary geometry. Tarski and Givant (1999: 175) proved that elementary geometry is:\nGupta (1965) proved the above axioms independent, \"Pasch\" and \"Reflexivity of Congruence\" excepted.\n\nNegating the Axiom of Euclid yields hyperbolic geometry, while eliminating it outright yields absolute geometry. Full (as opposed to elementary) Euclidean geometry requires giving up a first order axiomatization: replace φ(\"x\") and ψ(\"y\") in the axiom schema of Continuity with \"x\" ∈ \"A\" and \"y\" ∈ \"B\", where \"A\" and \"B\" are universally quantified variables ranging over sets of points.\n\nHilbert's axioms for plane geometry number 16, and include Transitivity of Congruence and a variant of the Axiom of Pasch. The only notion from intuitive geometry invoked in the remarks to Tarski's axioms is triangle. (Versions B and C of the Axiom of Euclid refer to '\"circle\" and \"angle,\" respectively.) Hilbert's axioms also require \"ray,\" \"angle,\" and the notion of a triangle \"including\" an angle. In addition to betweenness and congruence, Hilbert's axioms require a primitive binary relation \"on,\" linking a point and a line. The Axiom schema of Continuity plays a role similar to Hilbert's two axioms of Continuity. This schema is indispensable; Euclidean geometry in Tarski's (or equivalent) language cannot be finitely axiomatized as a first-order theory. Hilbert's axioms do not constitute a first-order theory because his continuity axioms require second-order logic.\n\nThe first four groups of axioms of Hilbert's axioms for plane geometry are bi-interpretable with Tarski's axioms minus continuity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55360808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55360808", "title": "Thought-Forms (book)", "text": "Thought-Forms (book)\n\nThought-Forms: A Record of Clairvoyant Investigation is a theosophical book compiled by the members of the Theosophical Society A. Besant and C. W. Leadbeater. It was originally published in 1901 in London. From the standpoint of Theosophy, it tells regarding visualization of thoughts, experiences, emotions and music. Drawings of the \"thought-forms\" were performed by painters Varley, Prince, and McFarlane.\n\nThis book has become the result of the joint work of the authors, which began in 1895, when they had started an investigation of \"the subtle matter of the universe.\" They were interested the work of the human mind as, according their claim, this work \"extrudes into the external world\" the thought-forms.\n\nIn September 1896, Besant reported in \"Lucifer\" that \"two clairvoyant Theosophists\" (whose personalities were not disclosed in the journal, although some members of the Society knew about them) had started \"observing the substance of thought.\" Her article named \"Thought-Forms\" was accompanied by four pages of pictures of diverse thought-forms which the investigators \"had observed and described to an artist.\" The colour sketches of the unknown performance were depicting: on the first plate—thought-forms of \"devotion,\" \"sacrifice,\" and \"devotional,\" on the second one—three types of \"anger,\" on the third one—three types of \"love\" (\"undirected,\" \"directed,\" and \"grasping\"), and on the fourth one—thought-forms of \"jealousy,\" \"intellect,\" and \"ambition.\" Besant gave the article scientific coloring, not forgetting to mention Röntgen, Baraduc, Reichenbach, \"vibrations and the ether.\"\n\nThis \"small but influential book\", which contains color pictures of thought-forms that the authors said are created \"in subtle spirit-matter,\" was published in 1901. The book affirms that \"the quality\" of thoughts influences the life experience of their creator, and that they \"can affect\" other people.\n\nThe authors write that they, like many theosophists, are convinced that \"thoughts are things,\" and the task of their book is to help the reader understand this. The frontispiece of the book contains a table \"The meanings of colours\" of thought-forms and human aura associated with feelings and emotions, beginning with \"High Spirituality\" (light blue—in the upper left corner) and ending by \"Malice\" (black—in the lower right corner), 25 colors in all. The authors argue that human aura is \"the outer part of the cloud-like substance of his higher bodies, interpenetrating each other, and extending beyond the confines of his physical body.\" The mental and desire bodies (two human higher bodies) are \"those chiefly concerned with the appearance of what are called thought-forms.\"\n\nThe book states that \"the production of all thought-forms\" is based on three major principles:\n\n\nThe authors define the following three classes of thought-forms:\n\n\n\"To paint in earth's dull colours the forms clothed in the living light of other worlds, — Besant writes in the foreword, — is a hard and thankless task.\" The authors claim that the images in the book \"are not imaginary forms, prepared as some dreamer thinks that they ought to appear.\" Rather, \"they\nare representations of forms actually observed as thrown off by ordinary men and women.\" And the authors sincerely hope that they will force the reader \"realise the nature and power of his thoughts, acting as a stimulus to the noble, a curb on the base.\"\n\nIn Fig. 13 shows the thought-form created by \"a strong craving for personal possession.\" Its color has dull unpleasing hue \"deadened with the heavy tint indicative of selfishness.\" The curving hooks are its especially characteristic. Creator this thought-form had never \"conception of the self-sacrificing love which pours itself out in joyous service,\" no thinking of return.\n\nThe authors write that a form in Fig. 19 at the top is a specific thought-form which had accompanied a question demonstrating deep thought and penetration. The first variant of the answer did not fully satisfy the questioner, and his desire to achieve a full and comprehensive answer was expressed in the fact that his \"thought-form deepened in colour and changed into the second of the two shapes (in Fig. 19 below), resembling a corkscrew even more closely than before.\"\n\nFig. 22 and 23 are thought-forms of a \"murderous rage\" (on the right) and a \"sustained anger\" (on the left). The first form was taken \"from the aura of a rough and partially intoxicated man in the East End of London,\" when he was knocking down a woman; a flare flashed in her direction, triggering an explosion of horror—she recognized that one would be struck. In the same illustration drawned a \"stiletto-like dart\" directed to the lower left corner: it is a thought \"of steady anger, intense and desiring vengeance, of the quality of murder, sustained through years, and directed against a person who had inflicted a deep injury on the one who sent it forth.\"\nThe authors state that when a person is suddenly frightened, then has a place the effect shown in Fig. 27. It is emphasized that \"all the crescents\" on the right, which apparently have been emitted earlier than others, do not show anything other than \"the livid grey of fear; but a moment later the man is already partially recovering from the shock, and beginning to feel angry that he allowed himself to be startled.\" The later crescents have changed to scarlet, and it evidences the \"mingling of anger and fear,\" while the last crescent is quite scarlet, and it shows that \"already the fright is entirely overcome, and only the annoyance remains.\"\n\nBeginning from Fig. 30, \"the book changes course in an interesting way,\" moving from the illustrations of individual thoughts and emotions to the narrative of events. Besant and Leadbeater write that occasioned by a \"terrible accident\" at sea, three thought-forms depicted in Fig. 30 \"were seen simultaneously, arranged exactly as represented, though in the midst of indescribable confusion.\" The authors continue:\n\"They are instructive as showing how differently people are affected by sudden and serious danger. One form [on the right] shows nothing but an eruption of the livid grey of fear, rising out of a basis of utter selfishness: and unfortunately there were many such as this. The shattered appearance of the thought-form shows the violence and completeness of the explosion, which in turn indicates that the whole soul of that person was possessed with blind, frantic terror, and that the overpowering sense of personal danger excluded for the time every higher feeling.\"\n\nThe authors explain that the thought-form in Fig. 30 on the left shows an attempt to find \"solace in prayer,\" and in this way overcome fear. This can be seen under a grayish-blue color, \"which lifts itself hesitatingly upwards.\" Yet it is seen that judging by \"the lower part of the thought-form, with its irregular outline and its falling fragments, that there is in reality almost as much fright here\" as in the case on the right. Thus, one person has a chance to restore \"self-control,\" while the other remains \"an abject slave to overwhelming emotion.\" The thought-form at upper has been created by a member of the ship crew responsible for the lives of passengers, and it demonstrates a \"very striking contrast\" of the weakness manifesting in two forms from below. Herein shown \"a powerful, clear-cut and definite thought, obviously full\" of energy and determination. Orange color speaks of his confidence in ability to manage with the difficulty. The \"brilliant yellow\" means that his intellect is already at work upon the problem. \n\nFig. 31 is another declarative piece, depicting \"the thought-form of an actor while waiting to go upon the stage.\" The authors expound that the orange band indicates self-confidence,\n\"yet in spite of this there is a good deal of unavoidable uncertainty as to how this new play may strike the fickle public, and on the whole the doubt and fear overbalance the certainty and pride, for there is more of the pale grey than of the orange, and the whole thought-form vibrates like a flag flapping in a gale of wind.\" \n\nIn the thought-form on the left in Fig. 34, as the authors explain, there is nothing but \"the highest and most beautiful\" feelings. At the base of the thought-form, you can see \"a full expression of deep sympathy,\" the light green color shows the understanding of the suffering of the deceased's relatives and condolence with them, and the strip \"of deeper green shows the attitude of the thinker towards the dead man himself.\" The dense rose-color shows love to both the deceased and the surrounding, while the upper part, consisting of a cone and stars above it, indicates a feeling in connection with thoughts of death: the blue express \"its devotional aspect,\" while as \"the violet shows the thought of, and the power to respond to, a noble ideal\" and the ability to match, the stars reflect \"the spiritual aspirations.\" In the same figure, the thought-form on the right reflects nothing but only \"profound depression, fear and selfishness.\" His only definite feelings are despair and the sense of his personal loss, and these show themselves in proper strips of brown-grey and leaden grey color, while the \"very curious downward protrusion\" demonstrates the strong selfish desire to raise the dead man into his earth life.\n\nThe description of the event depicted in the book on Fig. 38, as noted a historian Breen, \"anticipates the 1960s\" as well with its conjunction of meditation and idealism: this thought-form was \"generated by one who was trying, while sitting in meditation, to fill his mind with an aspiration to enfold all mankind in order to draw them upward towards the high ideal which shone so clearly before his eyes.\" The ability of the authors to see the \"vibrations of ideas, emotions, and sounds\" demonstrates, in his opinion, \"a sort of spiritual synesthesia\" which transform the religious act into a neurological phenomenon.\nThe authors write that the thought-form shown in Fig. 41 was accompanied by \"the devotional aspiration\" to that Logos may thus be manifested through the man in meditation. It is this religious feeling gives a \"pale blue\" shade to the five-pointed star. This form has been used \"for many ages as a symbol of God manifest in man.\"\n\nPlate M showing the form created by music of Mendelssohn \"depicts yellow, red, blue and green lines rising out of a church.\" This, as the authors explain, \"signifies the movement of one of the parts of the melody, the four moving approximately together denoting the treble, alto, tenor and bass respectively.\" Moreover, \"the scalloped edging surrounding the whole is the result of various flourishes and arpeggios, and the floating crescents in the centre represent isolated or staccato chords.\"\n\nOn Plate G depicts a musical form to the piece by Gounod. Describing a musical form \"created\" by Wagner (on Plate W), the authors note in it the likeness to the \"successively retreating\" ramparts of a mountain, \"and it is heightened by the billowy masses of cloud which roll between the crags and give the effect of perspective.\"\n\nAccording to professor Ellwood, the book by Besant and Leadbeater had a large influence on modern art. \"It suggested, to a world moving rapidly beyond the literalism of Victorian art, the expression in painting of surreal forms and forces underlying, but different from, the visible world.\" \"Thought-Forms\" demonstrated how the symbolism of \"astral colors and forms\" can express the specificity of \"certain soul's and mental states.\" It had a great influence on Kandinsky as one of the essential factors that led to the \"genius opening of new perspectives for painting.\"\n\nAccording to reminiscences by Sabaneyev, besides \"The Secret Doctrine\" Scriabin interested a magazine \"Vestnik Theosofii,\" which published [from 1908] the translations of Besant and Leadbeater's works. Apparently, being impressed by theirs theosophical works, he once said that \"strong, powerful thought creates a thought-form so intense that it, in addition to the will, flows into the consciousness of other people.\" The perform of the part of light in he imagined in the form of a radiance of some \"luminous matter,\" which was supposed to fill the hall.\n\nA historian Breen wrote that Besant and Leadbeater were well aware how annoying stuff may be their book for a \"society that remained deeply conservative.\" In early January 1901, when this book was published, \"Queen Victoria still ruled England. 'Modernism' as a movement or even a concept did not exist. When we consider this world of 1901, – further wrote Breen, – it becomes difficult not to believe that Besant, Leadbeater and their milieu deserve a more prominent place in the annals of both abstract art and the history of modernism.\" As the art critic Kramer has pointed, \"what is particularly striking about the outlook of the artists primarily responsible for creating abstraction is their espousal of occult doctrine.\" Yeats, Eliot, Malevich, Kandinsky, and Mondrian were charmed by Theosophy. In the first decades of the twentieth century, it was a widespread \"component of Western cultural life.\"\n\nThus, Besant and Ledbetter had played, summed up Breen, \"a small but intriguing role in shaping the globalized culture... which weaves together East and West, mysticism and rationalism, sound and sight.\"\n\nAn academic science names the activities of such \"investigators,\" as the authors of this book, \"pseudoscience\", because it based on a concept of the extrasensory perception. The belief in existence of thought-forms \"remains influential today\" for the Theosophists, followers of New Thought, New Age and in neopagan movements, including Wicca.\n\nAfter its first publication in 1901 the book was reprinted several times (8th – in 1971). This work has been translated into several European languages: French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41362930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41362930", "title": "Vivartavada", "text": "Vivartavada\n\nVivartavada is the Vedantic theory of causation; it is the method of asserting this doctrine.\nThe Sanskrit word - \"vivarta\" (विवर्त) means alteration, modification, change of form, altered condition or state. According to Advaita Vedanta, \"vivarta\" involves \"vikara\" or modification but only apparent modification (of the real which does not change). Therefore, the world is vivarta of the sole real entity Brahman, and merely an illusion. The term, Vivartavada is derived from the word \"vivarta\" and refers to the Theory of Causation that was proposed by Adi Sankara to explain the world-appearance or is the method to assert the Vedanta doctrine.\n\nVivartavada is a philosophical term that refers to 'the origin of the universe from the manifestation or appearance of the unique Brahman' or in other words it refers to the material causehood of Brahman; it is juxtaposed to the term parinamvada. It denotes the Advaita theory of Superimposition (\"adhyasa\") which is in concurrence with the statements of the \"Upanishads\" to the effect that when ignorance is ended by right knowledge the true nature of an object becomes known. The relation that obtains between Brahman and the world as between the creator and the created has in its background the general theory of \"Satkaryavada\", the theory which is based on the premise that the effect pre-exists in its cause, and \"vivartavada\" according to which theory the effect, this world, is merely an unreal (\"vivarta\") transformation of its cause, Brahman. Advaita Vedanta holds Creation to be only an apparent change and not a modification of Brahman in reality. Brahman is reality and reality is non-dual, for which reason Sankara in his Vivekachudamani Sloka 261 reiterates - एकमेव सदनेककारणं – That which exists as one only, is the cause of multiplicity, superimposed.\n\nBuddhist thinkers and teachers have expressed their views on the concept of Duality developed by the Vedic thinkers and teachers. Zen teaches that we should be free from dualities in order to be what we are meant to be, and that duality is due to ego which veils reality from its true essence (explained by Buddhists in terms of non-essence); ego, which is an artificial condition not having a true identity because it is a creation of the mind, and distorts reality in an attempt to perceive what it wants to perceive and not what it is. Taoism teaches that reality is like the un- carved block (the symbol of Tao), one must not carve the block lest \"Tao\" is changed. Sankara considers \"Maya\" as a temporary or phenomenal reality and Brahman as the Ultimate reality; and that living in \"Maya\" the \"Jiva\" (the 'ego-self') superimposes its own interpretation of reality onto reality, and thus Brahman remains hidden or concealed and \"Maya\" is viewed as the ultimate reality.\n\nThere are broadly seven basics of the \"Advaita\" philosophy advocated by Adi Shankara, and they are:-\n\n\"Advaita\" denies real creation from the level of the highest truth, at ordinary level it accepts the world just as it appears to common sense. \"Ajativada\" (the theory of no origination of Gaudapada) is associated with \"Vivartavada\" (the theory of manifestation of Sankara), they are the same teaching at the \"parmartha\" basis but from two different angles viz. a) when the focus is kept on the changeless Brahman, and as a consequence of that perspective the world is seen to be merely an unreal appearance, the teaching is \"ajativada\"; and b) when the focus shifts to the empirical fact of the world-appearance, and specifically onto the relation between the world-appearance and Brahman, the teaching is \"vivartavada\", the former finds the world to be a dream and a magic, whereas to the latter, the world existence is illusory. Aurobindo considers \"Vivartavada\" to be the denial of causation and the assertion of identity presupposing \"parinama\" or 'effectual transformation'.\n\nThe 'Theory of Manifestation' propounded by the \"Advaita Vedanta\" is not without its opponents. Vijnanabhiksu portrays casual relation as having three terms – unchangeable locus cause, changeable locus cause and effect – the locus cause is inseparable from and does not inhere in the changeable cause and the effect . and, the \"Pratyabhijna\" philosophy of Somananda refutes the \"Arambhvada\" (the 'Realistic view' of the Nyaya-Vaisesika), the \"Parinamavada\" (the theory of Transformation of the \"Sankhya-Yoga\") and the \"Vivartavada\" (the theory of Manifestation of the Advaita), by postulating the theory of \"Svatantryavada\" (the 'Universal voluntarism') which states that it is due to the sovereignty of God’s Will that Effect evolves from Cause. Whereas Ramanuja accepts Prakrti as the material cause but Madhava rejects this contention since material cause does not mean that which controls and superintends; Madhava also rejects the \"Vivartavada\" because it does not accept any effect that has got to be accounted for.In his philosophy of pure non-dualism (Shuddhadvaita), Vallabhacharya also does not support 'vivartavada' and propounds that Maya (or the 'Jagat') is real and is only a power of Brahmana who himself manifests, of his own will, as Jiva and the world and there is no transformation of Brahmana in doing so, just as a gold ornament still remains gold only. Shuddhadvaita is also therefore known as ‘Avikṛta Pariṇāmavāda’ (Unmodified transformation).\n"}
{"id": "46029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46029", "title": "Wisdom", "text": "Wisdom\n\nWisdom, sapience, or sagacity, is the ability to think and act using knowledge, experience, understanding, common sense and insight. Wisdom is associated with attributes such as compassion, experiential self-knowledge, non-attachment and virtues such as ethics and benevolence.\n\nWisdom has been defined in many different ways, a variety of measurement scales have been developed, and several subtypes of wisdom have been proposed. Out of these, \"phronesis\" and \"sophia\" are two key subtypes of wisdom.\nIn the classical Greek tradition, there is a distinction between \"sophia\" \"wisdom\" and \"phronesis\" \"prudence, practical intelligence\".\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines wisdom as \"Capacity of judging rightly in matters relating to life and conduct; soundness of judgement in the choice of means and ends; sometimes, less strictly, sound sense, esp. in practical affairs: opp. to folly;\" also \"Knowledge (esp. of a high or abstruse kind); enlightenment, learning, erudition.\" Charles Haddon Spurgeon defined wisdom as \"the right use of knowledge\". Robert I. Sutton and Andrew Hargadon defined the \"attitude of wisdom\" as \"acting with knowledge while doubting what one knows\". In the psychological literature however the construct of wisdom does not have a commonly accepted definition.\n\nThe ancient Greeks considered wisdom to be an important virtue, personified as the goddesses Metis and Athena. Athena is said to have sprung from the head of Zeus. She was portrayed as strong, fair, merciful, and chaste. To Socrates and Plato, philosophy was literally the love of Wisdom (philo-sophia). This permeates Plato's dialogues, especially \"The Republic\", in which the leaders of his proposed utopia are to be philosopher kings, rulers who understand the Form of the Good and possess the courage to act accordingly. Aristotle, in his \"Metaphysics\", defined wisdom as the understanding of causes, i.e. knowing why things are a certain way, which is deeper than merely knowing that things are a certain way. In fact, it was Aristotle who first made a distinction between \"phronesis\" and \"sophia\" aspects of wisdom.\n\nThe ancient Romans also valued wisdom. It was personified in Minerva, or Pallas. She also represents skillful knowledge and the virtues, especially chastity. Her symbol was the owl which is still a popular representation of wisdom, because it can see in darkness. She was said to be born from Jupiter's forehead.\n\nWisdom is also important within Christianity. Jesus emphasized it. Paul the Apostle, in his first epistle to the Corinthians, argued that there is both secular and divine wisdom, urging Christians to pursue the latter. Prudence, which is intimately related to wisdom, became one of the four cardinal virtues of Catholicism. The Christian philosopher Thomas Aquinas considered wisdom to be the \"father\" (i.e. the cause, measure, and form) of all virtues.\n\nIn Buddhist traditions, developing wisdom plays a central role where comprehensive guidance on how to develop wisdom is provided. In the Inuit tradition, developing wisdom was one of the aims of teaching. An Inuit Elder said that a person became wise when they could see what needed to be done and do it successfully without being told what to do. In many cultures, the name for third molars, which are the last teeth to grow, is etymologically linked with wisdom, e.g., as in the English \"wisdom tooth\".\n\nPublic schools in the US have an approach to character education. Eighteenth century philosophers such as Benjamin Franklin, referred to this as training wisdom and virtue. Traditionally, schools share the responsibility to build character and wisdom along with parents and the community.\n\nNicholas Maxwell, a contemporary philosopher in the United Kingdom, advocates that academia ought to alter its focus from the acquisition of knowledge to seeking and promoting wisdom, which he defines as the capacity to realize what is of value in life, for oneself and others. He teaches that new knowledge and technological know-how increase our power to act which, without wisdom, may cause human suffering and death as well as human benefit. Wisdom is the application of knowledge to attain a positive goal by receiving instruction in governing oneself.\n\nPsychologists have gathered data on commonly held beliefs or folk theories about wisdom. These analyses indicate that although \"there is an overlap of the implicit theory of wisdom with intelligence, perceptiveness, spirituality and shrewdness, it is evident that wisdom is an expertise in dealing with difficult questions of life and adaptation to the complex requirements.\" Baltes et al. in 2002 through \"Wisdom: its structure and function in regulating lifespan successful development\" defined \"Wisdom is the ability to deal with the contradictions of a specific situation and to assess the consequences of an action for themselves and for others. It is achieved when in a concrete situation, a balance between intrapersonal, inter- personal and institutional interests can be prepared\".\n\nResearchers in the field of positive psychology have defined wisdom as the coordination of \"knowledge and experience\" and \"its deliberate use to improve well being.\" With this definition, wisdom is further defined as a multidimensional construct with the following facets:\n\n\nWisdom leads a person to overcome feelings of helplessness, powerlessness, anger or aggression by non-understanding of external elements and internal acknowledgement. It leads to a change from the experience of meaninglessness to meaningful goals, prospects for coping with critical life events and to engage constructively with complex life problems. John Vervaeke has argued through \"cognitive science of wisdom\" that, when basic relevance realization processes that underlie cognition is fed back onto themselves and made self-referential/differentiated reflection with the problems facing and its dimensions, leads to enhanced insight abilities associated with wisdom. Robert Sternberg has segregated the capacity for judgement from the general qualifiers for intelligence, which is closer to cognizant aptitude than to wisdom. Displaying sound judgement in a complex, dynamic environment is a hallmark of wisdom.\nDr. B. Legesse et al., a neuropsychiatrist at McLean Hospital/Harvard Medical School, offers \"a theoretical definition that takes into account many cultural, religious, and philosophical themes is that wisdom represents a demonstrated superior ability to understand the nature and behavior of things, people, or events.\" He states \"this results in an increased ability to predict behavior or events which then may be used to benefit self or others.\" He furthermore adds \"there is more often a desire to share the accrued benefits with a larger group for the purpose of promoting survival, cohesion, or well-being of that group. The benefits do not result from malicious or antisocial intents or inequitable behavior. Environmental factors, such as family, education, socioeconomic status, culture, and religion, are involved in generating the milieu in which the personal value system develops. Many of these same factors also influence how a given community decides whether wisdom is present or not. This model of wisdom relies on the individual's ability to generate a mental representation of the self (cognitive, emotional, and physical), the external world, and the dynamic relationship of the self with the external world.\" Dr. Legesse proposes that \"the neural (brain) systems critical to enable these functions are distributed but heavily dependent on those that support memory, learning, understanding other people's mental states (Theory of Mind), and assigning relative value to information.\" The neuroanatomy of wisdom he says depends on \"the three frontosubcortical neural networks, the limbic system, and the mirror neuron system\" which \"are of particular importance for supporting these activities.\" However, the need to distinguish two very different “levels of analyses” has been proposed as being important especially when one attempts to describe wisdom using neural anatomy.\n\nMany, but not all, studies find that adults' self-ratings of perspective/wisdom do not depend on age. This stands in contrast to the popular notion that wisdom increases with age, supported by a recent study showing that regardless of their education, IQ or gender, older adults possess better reasoning about societal and interpersonal conflicts.\n\nSapience is closely related to the term \"sophia\" often defined as \"transcendent wisdom\", \"ultimate reality\", or the ultimate truth of things. Sapiential perspective of wisdom is said to lie in the heart of every religion, where it is often acquired through intuitive knowing. This type of wisdom is described as going beyond mere practical wisdom and includes self-knowledge, interconnectedness, conditioned origination of mind-states and other deeper understandings of subjective experience. This type of wisdom can also lead to the ability of an individual to act with appropriate judgement, a broad understanding of situations and greater appreciation/compassion towards other living beings.\n\nThe word \"sapience\" is derived from the Latin \"sapientia\", meaning \"wisdom\". \nThe corresponding verb \"sapere\" has the original meaning of \"to taste\", hence \"to perceive, to discern\" and \"to know\"; its present participle \"sapiens\" was chosen by Carl Linnaeus for the Latin binomial for the human species, \"Homo sapiens\".\n\nIn Mesopotamian religion and mythology, Enki, also known as Ea, was the God of wisdom and intelligence. Wisdom was achieved by restoring balance.\n\nSia represents the personification or god of wisdom in the traditional mythology adhered to in Ancient Egypt.\n\nThe word wisdom (חכם) is mentioned 222 times in the Hebrew Bible. It was regarded as one of the highest virtues among the Israelites along with kindness (חסד) and justice (צדק). Both the books of Proverbs and Psalms urge readers to obtain and to increase in wisdom.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, wisdom is represented by Solomon, who asks God for wisdom in . Much of the Book of Proverbs, a book of wise sayings, is attributed to Solomon. In , the fear of YHWH is called the beginning of wisdom. In , there is also reference to wisdom personified in female form, \"Wisdom calls aloud in the streets, she raises her voice in the marketplaces.\" In , this personified wisdom is described as being present with God before creation began and even taking part in creation itself.\n\nThe Talmud teaches that a wise person is a person who can foresee the future. \"Nolad\" is the Hebrew word for \"future,\" but also the Hebrew word for \"birth\", so one rabbinic interpretation of the teaching is that a wise person is one who can foresee the consequences of his/her choices (i.e. can \"see the future\" that he/she \"gives birth\" to).\n\nIn Christian theology, \"wisdom\" (From Hebrew: \"חכמה\" transliteration: chokmâh pronounced: khok-maw', Greek: \"Sophia\", Latin: \"Sapientia\") describes an aspect of God, or the theological concept regarding the wisdom of God.\n\nThere is an oppositional element in Christian thought between secular wisdom and Godly wisdom. Paul the Apostle states that worldly wisdom thinks the claims of Christ to be foolishness. However, to those who are \"on the path to salvation\" Christ represents the wisdom of God. () Also, Wisdom is one of the seven gifts of the Holy Spirit according to Anglican, Catholic, and Lutheran belief. gives an alternate list of nine virtues, among which wisdom is one.\n\nThe book of Proverbs in the Old Testament of the Bible primarily focuses on wisdom, and was primarily written by one of the wisest kings according to Jewish history, King Solomon. Proverbs is found in the Old Testament section of the Bible and is written in a sort of poetic way, giving direction on how to handle various aspects of life; one's relationship with God, marriage, dealing with finances, work, friendships and persevering in difficult situations faced in life. Also the nature of Wisdom as being female.\n\nApart from Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and James, other main books of wisdom in the Bible are Job, Psalms, and 1 and 2 Corinthians, which give lessons on gaining and using wisdom through difficult situations.\n\nDeveloping wisdom is of central importance in Buddhist traditions, where the ultimate aim is often presented as “seeing things as they are” or as gaining a “penetrative understanding of all phenomena,” which in turn is described as ultimately leading to the “complete freedom from suffering.” In Buddhism, developing wisdom is accomplished through an understanding of what are known as the Four Noble Truths and by following the Noble Eightfold Path. This path lists mindfulness as one of eight required components for cultivating wisdom.\n\nBuddhist scriptures teach that a wise person is usually endowed with good and maybe bodily conduct, and sometimes good verbal conduct, and good mental conduct.(\"AN 3:2\") A wise person does actions that are unpleasant to do but give good results, and doesn’t do actions that are pleasant to do but give bad results (\"AN 4:115\"). Wisdom is the antidote to the self-chosen poison of ignorance. The Buddha has much to say on the subject of wisdom including:\nTo recover the original supreme wisdom of self-nature covered by the self-imposed three dusty poisons (greed, anger, ignorance) Buddha taught to his students the threefold training by turning greed into generosity and discipline, anger into kindness and meditation, ignorance into wisdom. As the Sixth Patriarch of Chán Buddhism, Huineng, said in his Platform Sutra,\"Mind without dispute is self-nature discipline, mind without disturbance is self-nature meditation, mind without ignorance is self-nature wisdom.\"\n\nIn Hinduism, wisdom is considered a state of mind and soul where a person achieves liberation.\n\nThe god of wisdom is Ganesha and the goddess of knowledge is Saraswati.\n\nThe Sanskrit verse to attain knowledge is:<br>\n\nWisdom in Hinduism is knowing oneself as the truth, basis for the entire Creation, i.e., of \"Shristi\". In other words, wisdom simply means a person with Self-awareness as the one who witnesses the entire creation in all its facets and forms. Further it means realization that an individual through right conduct and right living over an unspecified period comes to realize their true relationship with the creation and the \"Paramatma\" who rules it.\n\nThe Arabic term corresponding to Hebrew \"Chokmah\" is \"ḥikma\".\nThe term occurs a number of times in the Quran, notably in Sura 2:269:\n\"He gives wisdom to whom He wills, and whoever has been given wisdom has certainly been given much good. And none will remember except those of understanding.\" ().\nand Sura 22:46: \"Have they not travelled in the land, and have they hearts wherewith to feel and ears wherewith to hear? For indeed it is not the eyes that grow blind, but it is the hearts, which are within the bosoms, that grow blind.\"\nSura 6: 151: \"Say: \"Come, I will rehearse what Allah (God) hath (really) prohibited you from\": Join not anything as equal with Him; be good to your parents; kill not your children on a plea of want;― We provide sustenance for you and for them;― come not nigh to shameful deeds, whether open or secret; take not life, which Allah hath made sacred, except by way of justice and law: thus doth He command you, that ye may learn wisdom\" ().\n\nThe Buddhist term \"Prajñā\" was translated into Chinese as\n\nAccording to the \"Doctrine of the Mean\", Confucius said:\n\n\"Love of learning is akin to wisdom. To practice with vigor is akin to humanity. To know to be shameful is akin to courage (zhi, ren, yong.. three of Mengzi's sprouts of virtue).\"\n\nCompare this with the Confucian classic \"Great Learning\", which begins with: \"The Way of learning to be great consists in manifesting the clear character, loving the people, and abiding in the highest good.\" One can clearly see the correlation with the Roman virtue prudence, especially if one interprets \"clear character\" as \"clear conscience\". (From Chan's Sources of Chinese Philosophy).\n\nIn Taoism, wisdom is construed as adherence to the Three Treasures (Taoism): charity, simplicity, and humility.\n\"He who knows other men is discerning [智]; he who knows himself is intelligent [明].\" (Tao Te Ching 33)\n\nIn Norse mythology, the god Odin is especially known for his wisdom, often acquired through various hardships and ordeals involving pain and self-sacrifice. In one instance he plucked out an eye and offered it to Mímir, guardian of the well of knowledge and wisdom, in return for a drink from the well.\nIn another famous account, Odin hanged himself for nine nights from Yggdrasil, the World Tree that unites all the realms of existence, suffering from hunger and thirst and finally wounding himself with a spear until he gained the knowledge of runes for use in casting powerful magic. He was also able to acquire the mead of poetry from the giants, a drink of which could grant the power of a scholar or poet, for the benefit of gods and mortals alike.\n\nIn Bahá'í scripture, \n\"The essence of wisdom is the fear of God, the dread of His scourge and punishment, and the apprehension of His justice and decree.\" Wisdom is seen as a light, that casts away darkness, and \"its dictates must be observed under all circumstances\". One may obtain knowledge and wisdom through God, his Word, and his Divine Manifestation and the source of all learning is the knowledge of God.\n\n"}
