{"id": "29395756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29395756", "title": "13th World Festival of Youth and Students", "text": "13th World Festival of Youth and Students\n\nThe 13th World Festival of Youth and Students (WFYS) was held from 1–8 July 1989 for 8 days, in Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea, and was organized by the World Federation of Democratic Youth. During the 1960s, the United States accused socialist countries, which mainly held these events, of using this event to spread communist propaganda.\n\nThe event in 1989 took four years of preparation by the North Korean government, which effectively spent a quarter of the country’s yearly budget (4.5 billion) on it. North Korea built elaborate stadiums, shipped in Mercedes-Benzes to tote around foreigners, and undertook other expensive architectural projects. Ultimately declared as the largest ever World Festival of Youth and Students, about 22,000 people from 177 countries took part in the festival, including 100 people from the United States. For eight days starting on 1 July 1989, the students participated in political discussions, sports competitions, and other activities. Many accounts described the festival as a reaction to Seoul’s hosting of the 1988 Summer Olympics, which North Korea boycotted.\n\nNorth Korea went through years of planning and building in preparation for its rare moment of worldwide prominence, building massive stadiums and shipping in luxury goods. For this event, North Korea constructed monumental architectural projects such as Rungnado May Day Stadium, the world's largest stadium, which seats 150,000 people. The stadium was commissioned into service on 1 May 1989, in time for the festival. \n\nThe North Korean government also worked with a South Korean student organization, the National Council of Student Representatives (Jeondaehyeop), which was organized on 19 August 1987. The organization concentrated its efforts on getting South Korean participation in order to express its anti-US and pro-reunification commitment. The group secretly sent one of its members, Lim Su-kyung, to the festival\n\nAlso in preparation for the event, the North Korean regime prohibited all disabled and short people from the festival village. The scheme was attributed to Pyongyang's attempt to outdo the South's hosting of the 1988 Summer Olympics.\n\nOn 1 July 1989, about 22,000 young people from 177 countries gathered in the May Day Stadium to inaugurate the festival. For eight days, the participants took part in social, cultural, sports and political activities. The slogan of the festival was \"For Anti-Imperialist Solidarity, Peace and Friendship\".\n\nThe Thirteenth festival held in North Korea was the first festival held in Asia and the first time the United States Department of Treasury allowed a group to travel to North Korea since the Korean War. Throughout this delegation’s and others’ time in Korea however, the North Korean government imposed boundaries and restrictions on foreigners’ movements and behavior, as well as constant surveillance over its own population.\n\nDanish activists caused a stir during the opening ceremony of the festival when they unfurled a banner criticizing North Korea’s human rights abuses. Two of the three activists were taken into custody but soon released.\n\nAt the festival, well over 1,000 events took place, from round-table political discussions, solidarity rallies, and plenary sessions, to sports matches, artistic performances, film showings and visits around Pyongyang and beyond. The political events of the festival primarily focused on anti-imperialist discussions as well as subjects such as peace and disarmament, nonalignment, human rights, and rights for youth and others. There were also frequent bilateral meetings arranged for two countries at a time to talk over issues of economic and political concern.\n\nEach of the eight days of the festival was devoted to a specific theme:\n\nPyongyang declined Seoul’s offer to contribute resources to festival events, particularly electronic equipment for the opening ceremony at the May Day Stadium.\n\nThe North Korean government greatly publicized South Korean student Lim Su-kyung’s presence at the festival. The South Korean government, then dominated by hardline anti-communists, banned the trip but Lim Su-kyung’s student association ignored the ban. Upon her arrival in Pyongyang, and throughout her time in North Korea, the public treated Lim like a celebrity: asking her questions about her ideology and broadcasting her activities during and after the visit. Dubbed the “Flower of Reunification”, Lim was hailed by the North Korean government as a hero who sacrificed herself at the altar of Korean reunification.\n\nHowever, Lim’s public appearance also revealed the positive elements of being a South Korean youth. In contrast to the North Koreans’ understanding that South Koreans lived a repressed life ridden with unhappiness and starvation under the colonial rule of the United States, they observed a healthy and well-spoken youth who expressed a willingness to give unscripted political statements to high officials.\n\nAfter the festival, Lim Su-kyung crossed the border back into South Korea, and the Southern government, as forewarned, imprisoned her. The North Korean government then broadcast an interview with Lim Su-kyung’s family in Seoul to its general population. Instead of portraying the harshness of the South Korean regime, the North Korean government showed the family in a nice home. To the puzzlement of the North Korea viewers, the family of the political criminal was not imprisoned and even allowed to stay in their home and keep their jobs. \n\nSome historians have concluded that North Korea failed to represent the superiority and popularity of its ideology through Lim Su-kyung. She interacted with North Koreans and gave her opinions on controversial matters, ultimately to the chagrin of North Korean officials, since she unexpectedly demonstrated the positive aspects of living in a US-backed nation.\n\nContemporary news reports in the Western world in general saw the Thirteenth Festival of Youth and Students as a failed effort on the part of Kim Il Sung, and the North Korean government, to increase their standing in the international community. Through constant surveillance of the population and other restrictions, the North Korean government attempted to shield its population from foreign influence, but inevitably the festival had an external impact on the home population.\n\nTwenty journalists from the United States attended the festival. Nicholas Kristof recounted that “native North Koreans seem willing and happy to talk to foreigners, but conversations often sound exceedingly unnatural and fake and that it is rare for a minute to pass without a Korean offering praise to the 77-year-old ‘great leader’.”\n\nSome historians, however, posit that reporters rhetorically reduced the coverage of the Festival of Youth and Students to the North Korea / South Korea issue and the regime of North Korea, failing to discuss the actual content of the festival. From this perspective, reporters reducing the festival to a mere manipulation device for North Korea were guilty of the same qualities they sought to criticize. Some claim this journalistic bias gave a skewed international perception of the true meaning of the festival.\n\nHosting the Youth Festival had long lasting consequences for the North Korean government and its worldwide standing. After funneling billions of dollars into the festival’s production, North Korea ended up owing five billion dollars in foreign debt and was considered bankrupt by creditor nations. This damaged the country’s economy and external status. The extravagant expenditures put North Korea into a hole it could not get out of, exacerbated by unfavourable economic conditions in the next decade with the fall of the Soviet Union and subsequent famine.\n\nAlso, Lim Su-kyung as well as other representations of the outside world had unintended effects on the North Korean public. Contrary to some Western predictions that the inflow of foreign influence would contribute to North Korea’s openness, after the festival Pyongyang tightened its control over its population in order to “wipe out all the remnants of ‘foreign culture’”. Historians such as Induk Kang believe North Korea reasserted its isolationism because its survival depended on the control of information into the country.\n\nHistorian Andrei Lankov has concluded that even though the country increased information control after the festival, “this was the beginning of major changes” in the infiltration of foreign influence into North Korea, which led to a negative impact on the regime's political legitimacy. In the subsequent decade, advances in media technology and loosening of border controls with China caused further change in North Koreans’ perception of the outside world.\n\nThe Pyongyang Youth Festival is widely considered North Korea’s competitive reaction to the Seoul Olympics games, and ultimately the festival strained relations with South Korea. Yet prior to the festival, the media portrayed an optimistic outlook on Korean relations, largely due to the 7 July (1988) Declaration in which the South Korea president regarded North Korea as a co-partner for achieving mutual prosperity. However, following the Pyongyang festival, “these confrontational feelings between the north and south began spreading widely among the masses of both sides,\" according to Induk Kang After the festival, the South Korean president increased the stakes for reconciliation by demanding that the North change its political structure as a precondition to reunification, something usually only presented by the northern side. Therefore, the festival undermined previous reconciliation efforts between North and South Korea and caused them both to raise more uncooperative demands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16045367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16045367", "title": "1913 Massacre", "text": "1913 Massacre\n\n\"1913 Massacre\" is a topical ballad written by Woody Guthrie, and recorded and released in 1941 for Moses Asch's Folkways label. The song originally appeared on \"Struggle\", an album of labor songs. It was re-released in 1999 on \"Buffalo Skinners: The Asch Recordings, Vol. 4\" and other albums. The song is about the death of striking copper miners and their families in Calumet, Michigan, on Christmas Eve, 1913, in what is commonly known as the Italian Hall disaster.\n\nThroughout the 1940s, Guthrie recorded hundreds of discs for Moses Asch, the founder of Folkways Records. One was “1913 Massacre”. According to Pete Seeger, Guthrie was inspired to write the song after reading about the Italian Hall disaster in \"We Are Many\" (1940), the autobiography of Ella Reeve Bloor, also known as Mother Bloor, a labor activist whose granddaughter was married to Hollywood actor and activist Will Geer who performed with Guthrie in the 1930s. Guthrie's notes indicate that he got the idea for the song \"from the life of Mother Bloor\", an eyewitness to the events at Italian Hall on Christmas Eve, 1913.\n\nA socialist and labor organizer from the East Coast, Bloor was in Calumet working on the miners' behalf with the Ladies Auxiliary of the Western Federation of Miners. She was assisted by Annie Clemenc, also known as \"Big Annie of Calumet\" – the \"lady\" in Guthrie's song who hollers \"'there's no such a thing! / Keep on with your party, there's no such a thing.'\" Bloor tells the story of the Calumet strike and the Italian Hall disaster in the first half of a chapter called \"Massacre of the Innocents.\" She devotes the second half of the chapter to events in Ludlow, Colorado in 1914, the subject of another Guthrie song — \"Ludlow Massacre.\"\n\nGuthrie's song echoes the language of Bloor's account in many places. The historian Arthur W. Thurner has found similar accounts in English and Finnish-language newspapers from the period; these accounts, he says, probably originated with Clemenc. (Many Finnish miners settled and worked in Michigan's Upper Peninsula, including Calumet.)\n\nThere are conflicting stories about what happened that Christmas Eve and who yelled \"fire\" in Italian Hall. These conflicts may never be resolved. They are, according to Thurner, evidence of a \"war between capital and labor\" in the Copper Country in 1913. This war included a dispute about what transpired that Christmas Eve in Italian Hall.\n\nThe debate over what the event means (or should mean) is ongoing. Guthrie's song counts as one of the more powerful —and certainly one of the best-known – interpretations of the tragedy. While \"1913 Massacre\" never became a folk standard, the song has been recorded and performed by many artists, including Guthrie's son Arlo; Ramblin' Jack Elliot; Scottish folksinger Alex Campbell; and Bob Dylan.\n\nDylan performed \"1913 Massacre\" at Carnegie Chapter Hall in 1961. Dylan set his tribute to Guthrie —\"Song To Woody\" released in early 1962 — to the tune of \"1913 Massacre.\"\nThe song revolves around a tragedy that took place on the evening of December 24, 1913, in Calumet's Italian Hall when more than five hundred striking miners and their families gathered for a Christmas party. The hall was on the second story and was reached by climbing a steep set of stairs. The only other exit was a poorly marked fire escape which could be reached by climbing out the windows.\n\nThe trouble began when someone yelled \"fire!\". Even though there was no fire, people panicked and rushed toward the steep stairway which led to the street entrance. Seventy-three people were trampled to death, including fifty-nine children.\n\nIn addition to those mentioned, other artists covering \"1913 Massacre\" include Cabin Sessions, Alex Campbell, Scarlett O' & Jürgen Ehle, Katie Else, Tim Grimm, Uncle Dave Huber, Enoch Kent, Alastair Moock, Lee Murdock, Joel Rafael, David Rovics, Jules Shear, and Sammy Walker.\n\nDylan used the tune to \"1913 Massacre\" when he wrote \"Song to Woody\" which expressed \"his debt to this great balladeer.\"\n\nGuthrie's song also inspired the documentary film \"1913 Massacre\", released in 2011.\n\nMore recently, both songs are central to a book released in June, \"Grown-Up Anger: The Connected Mysteries of Bob Dylan, Woody Guthrie, and the Calumet Massacre of 1913\", by Daniel Wolff.\n\nGuthrie, meanwhile, might have drawn the melody for \"1913 Massacre\" from traditional folk songs including the English ballad, \"To Hear The Nightingale Sing\" (sometimes called \"One Morning In May\").\n\n"}
{"id": "12143367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12143367", "title": "2007 Military World Games", "text": "2007 Military World Games\n\nThe 2007 Military World Games were held at the twin-cities Hyderabad - Secunderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India from October 14–21, 2007. Some parts of games were also held in Mumbai.\n\nAccording to press release by the organizers nearly 5000 athletes from 101 countries participated. The motto of the games was \"Friendship Through Sport\". Russia emerged on top of the medal tally with 42 gold, 29 silver and 29 bronze medals. The People's Republic of China, second with 38 gold, 22 silver and 13 bronze while Germany came a distant third with 7 gold, 10 silver and 13 bronze.\n\nThe Military Games torch began its journey from Leh to Kanya Kumari on August 4, 2007 and reached New Delhi on August 5, 2007.\nThe blasts in August 2007 at two locations in the venue city of the games created doubt as to whether the games would be held, but the organizers confirmed the event would be on schedule and as planned. It was later known that the terror cell that carried the blasts in the city also planned to attack the military games.\n\nThe opening ceremony of the games was held at the GMC Balayogi Stadium, Hyderabad. President of India Pratibha Patil declared the games open. Games ended on 21 October. The Defence Minister of India, Shri A. K. Antony declared the games closed at the G. M. C. Balayogi Athletic Stadium\n\nA total of fourteen sports were contested at the Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "18107833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18107833", "title": "A Switch Box Tale", "text": "A Switch Box Tale\n\nA Switch Box Tale is a part of the Danish activities for the 2008 European Year of Intercultural Dialogue and aims to examine and show how online media can facilitate musical exchange and expression.The project lets five Danish artists work with musical partners with roots in Guadalupe, Algeria, France and Mali. Each constellation creates two tracks by means of long-distance dialogue in cyberspace. After two days of rehearsal the tracks are performed live at SPOT Festival (June 5, 2008, in Aarhus) and STRØM Festival (August 14, 2008, in Copenhagen).\n\nA Switch Box Tale is carried out by ROSA - The Danish Rock Council in collaboration with Cirius – a part of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation of Denmark.\n\nPharfar & Cali P.\nDJ, producer and singer Pharfar from the Copenhagen reggae scene (Bikstok Røgsystem, Djosos Krost, etc.) has invited Swiss Cali P., who has his roots in Guadeloupe. Brought up in the Rastafari tradition, Cali P is a drummer, MC and reggae star both in his home country and abroad.\n\nDonna Cadogan & Malik Adouane\nDanish Donna Cadogan is an experienced and versatile singer on the Danish pop/rock/soul stage, who will here take on Algerian-born, French resident Malik Adouane, who brings his entire music tradition to SPOT – not least rai. A household name on clubs around the world.\n\nAs In RebekkaMaria & Tez\nIn the course of this last year RebekkaMaria has made the transition from indie rock singer to artful electro pop princess. With the French human beat boxer Tez she has a partner who attracts international attention with his body language – and justly so. \n\nVarano/Moussa Diallo & Mama Draba\nFor this project the Danish electronica star Morten Varano has teamed up with bassist Moussa Diallo, who grew up in Mali but now lives in Denmark, to work with Mamba Draba with the clear and sonorous voice. Residing in Paris, Draba belongs to one of the biggest griots of Mali right now.\n\n"}
{"id": "4653005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4653005", "title": "Advancement of Sound Science Center", "text": "Advancement of Sound Science Center\n\nThe Advancement of Sound Science Center (TASSC), formerly The Advancement of Sound Science Coalition, was an industry-funded lobby group and crisis management vehicle, and was created in 1993 by Phillip Morris and APCO in response to a 1992 United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) report which identified secondhand smoke as a \"confirmed\" human carcinogen. TASSC's stated objectives were to: (1) discredit the EPA report; (2) fight anti-smoking legislation; and (3) pro-actively pass legislation favourable to the tobacco industry.\n\nPhilip Morris hired APCO Worldwide, a communications consultancy with expertise in crisis management, handling sensitive political issues, lobbying, media relations, coalition building, opinion research, market entry, corporate social responsibility, and online communication. APCO's designed strategies for TASSC aimed at establishing TASSC as \"a credible source for reporters when questioning the validity of scientific studies\" and to \"Encourage the public to question – from the grassroots up – the validity of scientific studies\".\n\nThe PR firm known as APCO began life as a real-estate investment subsidiary for the legal partners in the law-firm Arnold & Porters. It was originally identified as A&P Co, which was converted into a specialist PR front to service Philip Morris, the major client of Arnold & Porters who serviced the cigarette company at the boardroom level. A&P then hired Margery Kraus to run the new company, and it expanded rapidly through its tobacco-funded activities, successively becoming APCo, APCO, then APCO & Associates, and finally APCO Worldwide.\n\nTobacco document archives include a section on Philip Morris which is entitled:\n\"Goals and objectives:\nThe overall goals of the media plan are to:\n\nThe objectives of the media plan are to: \n\nTASSC's original goal was to become a \"publicly known, respected and highly visible organization\" within months of its creation by using an \"integrated program that combines a strategic, comprehensive media relations program.\n\nThe strategies developed by APCO Worldwide (specifically for Philip Morris) and applied through The Advancement of Sound Science Center (TASSC), were highly effective and continue to be successfully used today by many organisations seeking to counter published peer-reviewed mainstream scientific research which might be used in formulating public policies. APCO Worldwide focused on unsettling the general public's confidence in the validity of mainstream scientific research in a series of well-planned public education campaigns. They strategically targeted mainstream media with junk-science claims about scientific reports (for example, claims about health and environmental risks that required regulatory policies).\n\nThis methodology is now called astroturfing -- generally uses so-called \"think-tanks\", and it works through coordinated local activism, \"information sharing\" and the strategic creation by APCO and its associates of seeded grassroots organizations. Under APCO's advice, TASSC developed local coalitions, making them appear to be indigenous grass roots organizations, and used them to influence media, legislators, and the public, and in some cases, to recruit scientists and researchers to support Philip Morris's pro-smoking position. TASSC promoted itself as \"a not-for-profit coalition advocating the use of sound science in public policy decision making.\"\n\nTASSC's links to the tobacco industry remained hidden for decades: APCO's strategy was for TASSC to appear to be an independent national grassroots coalition. To conceal this relationship, TASSC broadened the focus to question the validity of other scientific concerns, notably global warming.\n\nOp-eds and other merchandised articles which targeted the lay reader (although written by academics), were circulated to the media in a ready-to-scan/print form by the pro-tobacco lobby. These were circulated in apparent response to current issues that had attracted public attention, but they often cited similar mass media articles on smoking, which was the fundamental motivation behind the duplicity. Such material could be rapidly circulated to local media through affiliated associations, provided it appeared to be independent journalism. TASSC's role was to question the public acceptance of science in general, rather than risk being identified with the cigarette companies.\n\nThe concept of merchandised-article proofs being circulated for free to small newspapers is adopted by many groups to successfully question peer-reviewed science and professional scientific associations and institutions in areas such as environmental science on issues including smoking, pesticides, and global warming. This program was operated most successfully by Steven Milloy.\n\nTASSC was created in 1993 by the APCO Worldwide public relations firm, and was funded by tobacco company Philip Morris (now Altria) to help fight against smoking regulations. TASSC's links to the tobacco industry were minimized as part of APCO's strategy to \"establish an image of a national grassroots coalition.\"\n\nThe group has been described as an effort by tobacco companies who \"wanted to cast grave doubts on government scientists' capacity to produce fair research\", and who \"quietly formed a coalition of industries that would challenge every aspect of government science, from its studies of global warming to auto safety.\"\n\n\nTASSC was parodied in the 2005 film \"Thank You for Smoking\", in which the protagonist was a spokesperson for the \"Academy of Tobacco Studies\", an industry-funded lobby group dedicated to studying the effects of tobacco smoking with consistently inconclusive results.\n\nIn Barbara Kingsolver's novel \"Flight Behavior\" (2012), a scientist criticises a journalist (Tina Ultner) denying climate change and explains:\n"}
{"id": "56800170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56800170", "title": "Anandadhara", "text": "Anandadhara\n\nAnandadhara is a fortnightly entertainment magazine in Bangladesh. The magazine is published by Mahfuz Anam, who is also the editor of The Daily Star.\n\nAnandadhara was founded in May 1998 as a film industry magazine. Shahadat Chowdhury, editor of Bichitra, was the founding editor of Anandadhara. The magazine started the Lux Anandadhara Miss Bangladesh Photogenic which is the forerunner to the Lux Channel i Superstar. In June 2011, the magazine editor Arun Chowdhury was replaced by Moinul Ahsan Saber the editor of Shaptahik 2000.\n"}
{"id": "738658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=738658", "title": "Archaeological forgery", "text": "Archaeological forgery\n\nArchaeological forgery is the manufacture of supposedly ancient items that are sold to the antiquities market and may even end up in the collections of museums. It is related to art forgery.\n\nA string of archeological forgeries have usually followed news of prominent archaeological excavations. Historically, famous excavations like those in Crete, Valley of the Kings in Egypt and Pompeii have caused the appearance of a number of forgeries supposedly spirited away from the dig. Those have been usually presented in the open market but some have also ended up in museum collections and as objects of serious historical study.\n\nIn recent times, forgeries of pre-Columbian pottery from the South America have been very common. Other popular examples include Ancient Egyptian earthenware and supposed ancient Greek gold. There have also been paleontological forgeries like archaeoraptor.\n\nMost archaeological forgeries are made for reasons similar to art forgeries – for financial gain. The monetary value of an item that is thought to be thousands of years old is higher than if the item were sold as a souvenir.\n\nHowever, archaeological or paleontological forgers may have other motives; they may try to manufacture proof for their point of view or favorite theory (or \"against\" a point of view/theory they dislike), or to gain increased fame and prestige for themselves. If the intention is to create \"proof\" for religious history, it is pious fraud.\n\nInvestigators of archaeological forgery rely on the tools of archaeology in general. Since the age of the object is usually the most significant detail, they try to use radiocarbon dating or neutron activation analysis to find out the real age of the object.\n\nSome historians and archaeologists have strongly criticized the antiquities trade for putting profit and art collecting before the scientific accuracy and veracity. This, in effect, favours the archaeological forgery. Allegedly some of the items in prominent museum collections are of dubious or at least of unknown origin. Looters who rob archaeologically important places and supply the antiquities market are rarely concerned with exact dating and placement of the items. Antique dealers may also embellish a genuine item to make it more saleable. Sometimes traders may even sell items that are attributed to nonexistent cultures.\n\nAs is the case with art forgery, scholars and experts don't always agree on the authenticity of particular finds. Sometimes an entire research topic of a scholar may be based on finds that are later suspected as forgeries.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26056471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26056471", "title": "Arnold Schönberg Prize", "text": "Arnold Schönberg Prize\n\nThe International Arnold Schönberg Prize was established in 2001, and named after the Austrian composer Arnold Schönberg, thanks to the initiative of Kent Nagano, the former principal conductor and musical director of the Deutsches Symphonie-Orchester Berlin, together with Deutschlandradio. The prize is awarded by the Arnold Schönberg Center (Vienna, Austria) to international composers. The prize money is €12,500.\n\n"}
{"id": "41230817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41230817", "title": "Bluegrass Beeg", "text": "Bluegrass Beeg\n\nBluegrass Beeg is an annual one-day music festival which was initially held in 2013 in the village Grevenbicht, Netherlands.\nThis festival is held in October. Grevenbicht is a village in the far south of the Netherlands, near to the border of Belgium and Germany. Musicians from countries in Europe and around the world travel to meet and perform. During the festival about 10 bands or 40 musicians perform. Every year the Bluegrass Beeg attracts 500 to 600 visitors. Bluegrass Beeg is organized by \"Foundation AutiVriendelijk Limburg\".\n\nDuring the bluegrass festival there are stage performances that take place in the public room of the building 'Oos Hoes'. The bluegrass bands from Europe participate in a battle to win the Bluegrass Beeg award. The public votes to determine who is the best band and gave the best performance.\n\nParallel to the festival, workshops dealing with bluegrass are performed by renowned European and American bluegrass musicians. There are also activities and workshops for children of all ages. Bluegrass Beeg strives to be a family oriented bluegrass event as well.\n\nNear the location is a public parking lot which can be used. Musicians and public use the parking lot to play together. Bluegrass Beeg supplies its attendees with around the clock first aid volunteers, security and a transportation system to and from the festival.\n\nThe festival is Autism-friendly organized. This means that necessary measurements are taken for people to be able to enter the festival safely as a visitor, a volunteer or as an artist. The format of the festival helps people with autistic qualities to participate active or passive in an international social society.\n\nIn the Netherlands there is a relative small group approximately 2000 persons busy with bluegrass music.\nIn the Autumn of 2013 the first autism friendly took place. In 2013 the next countries participated: Belgium, Germany and Netherlands. In the first year ten Bluegrassbands performed one or more times. This festival sets an example for local 'Picking Parties' organized through the year.\n\nBluegrass originates from Northern America. Therefore the main language is English. Among others a few big names in the world of Bluegrass are Bill Monroe, Earl Scruggs and Lester Flatt. More musicians can be found at the List of bluegrass musicians.\n\nIn Europe there is a chain of Bluegrass festivals. An overview made by EBMA in 2011 can be found at List of European Bluegrass Festivals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2528540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2528540", "title": "Bombay riots", "text": "Bombay riots\n\nThe Bombay riots usually refers to the riots in Mumbai, in December 1992 and January 1993, in which around 700 people died. The riots were mainly due to escalations of hostilities after large scale violent protests by Muslims in reaction to the 1992 Babri Masjid Demolition by Hindu Karsevaks in Ayodhya.\n\nAn investigative commission was formed under Justice B.N. Srikrishna, but the recommendations of the Inquiry were not enacted.\n\nMany scholars stated that the riots were allegedly pre-planned, and that the Hindu rioters were allegedly granted access to information about the locations of Muslim homes and businesses through sources that were not public. The violence was widely reported as having been orchestrated by the Shiv Sena, a Hindu-nationalist political party in Maharashtra. A high-ranking member of the special branch later stated that the police were fully aware of the Shiv Sena's capabilities to commit acts of violence, and that they had incited hate against the minority communities. Historian Barbara Metcalf has stated that the riots were anti-Muslim pogrom.\n\nThe riots were followed by the retaliatory 12 March 1993 Bombay Bombings.\n\nThe riots started as a result of communal tension prevailing in the city after the Babri Mosque demolition on 6 December 1992. The Shrikrishna Commission identified two phases to the riots. The first was mainly a Muslim backlash as a result of the Babri Masjid demolition in the week immediately succeeding 6 December 1992 led by political leaders representing Hindutva in the city of Ayodhya. The second phase was a Hindu backlash occurring as a result of the killings of Hindu Mathadi Kamgar (workers) by Muslim fanatics in Dongri (an area of South Bombay), stabbing of Hindus in Muslim majority areas and burning of six Hindus, including a physically handicapped girl in Radhabai Chawl. This phase occurred in January 1993, with most incidents reported between 6 and 20 January.\n\nThe Report asserted that the communal passions of the Hindus were aroused to fever pitch by the inciting writings in print media, particularly Saamna and Navaakal which gave exaggerated accounts of the Mathadi murders and the Radhabai Chawl incident; rumours were floated that there were imminent attacks by Muslims using sophisticated arms, though the possibility of it happening was very imminent. From 8 January 1993, many riots occurred between Hindus led by the Shiv Sena and the Muslims funded by the Mumbai underworld at that time. The communal violence and rioting triggered off by the burning at Dongri and Radhabhai Chawl and then the retaliatory violence by Shiv Sena was hijacked by local criminal elements who saw in it an opportunity to make quick gains. By the time the right wing Hindu organization Shiv Sena realised that enough had been done by way of \"retaliation\", the violence and rioting was beyond the control of its leaders who had to issue an appeal to put an end to it.<ref name=autogenerated1 /\n\nNews of the demolition of Babri Masjid spread by 1430 hours on 6 December 1992. Muslims angered by this act felt that Islam was in imminent danger since proponents of the Hindu nation had been allowed to destroy, under the very nose of the armed forces, the Babri Masjid, despite assurances and undertakings by the Uttar Pradesh state Government and the Government of India that no harm would be permitted to be caused to the Babri Masjid during kar seva at Ayodhya on 6 December 1992. The extensive media coverage, particularly on television, of footage of file pictures of previous kar seva during which some of the kar sevaks were seen dancing on the dome of the Masjid, as well as the latest video shots showing actual demolition of the Babri Masjid, caused a sense of deep resentment. The demolition of the Babri Masjid provided enough fuel to excite, ignite and exploit the sentimentalities of Islamists. Muslims were proselytised by these exploitative elements that the Establishment and the Government had an active hand in the destruction, since it was not able to prevent the same.\n\nRumours abounded that alleged members of certain Hindutva parties were seen to be celebrating the demolition of Babri structure. Muslims protested violently on the streets. Large number of Muslims congregated near Minara Masjid in Pydhonie jurisdiction at about 2320 hours on 6 December 1992 and came out protesting frenziedly despite Mumbai being located in the unrelated state of Maharashtra. The first targets of the rioting mob became the municipal vans and the constabulary, both visible signs of the government.\n\nActivists of Bharatiya Janata Party and Shiv Sena jumped into the fray, and escalated communal passion, as seen from their act of stopping the vehicles on roads in the jurisdiction of V.P. Road Police Station.\n\nIn Nirmal Nagar jurisdiction, a Ganesh idol in the Ganesh Mandir on Anant Kanekar Marg was found moved out from its place of installation though the lock on the grill surrounding the sanctum sanctorum was found intact. This was noticed at about 2345 hours. Though at the time the incident happened there were no immediate clues as to the identity of the miscreants, it was widely suspected that Muslim fanatics were behind it.\n\nIn the jurisdiction of Deonar, there was a sharp counter–reaction by Muslims who stoned the house of a local Bharatiya Janata Party leader. Tensions escalated.\n\nFrom 7 December 1992 onwards there was a qualitative transformation in the situation. Large mobs of Muslims came on the streets and there was recourse taken to violence without doubt. The Muslim mobs appeared to have come out with the intention of mounting violent attacks as noticed from their preparedness with weapons of offence. There were violent attacks on the policemen in Muslim dominated areas like Bhendi Bazar and its vicinity. The jurisdictional areas affected were mostly Muslim dominated or mixed localities. The situation further worsened when Hindu youth beat up the rioting Muslims, leading to a situation where the police found it difficult to restrain both sections; when the police did it by force, the police came to be attacked by both Hindu and Muslim mobs.\n\nBy this time the protest had degenerated into a full–scale communal riot between Hindus and Muslims. Eleven Hindu houses in different jurisdictions were damaged, demolished or set on fire. The Hindus did not fall behind and damaged mosques and madrasas in different jurisdictions. BEST buses in the Bombay Central Bus Depot and BEST bus stops became easy targets for the Muslim mobs and were damaged and/or set on fire.\n\nTwo constables in Deonar jurisdiction were killed with choppers and swords by the rampaging Muslims. While one lay on the ground bleeding to death, the body of another was dragged and thrown into the garbage heap from where it was recovered seven days later. One constable was done to death in Byculla jurisdiction. Several police officers and policemen who bravely attempted to stem the tide sustained injuries in mob action.\n\nIn Mahim, two police personnel, HC Zarande of Crime Branch, CID, and Police Sub–Inspector Salunke of Juhu Police Station, were proceeding on a motorcycle when attacked by a Muslim mob of 400–500 with soda–water bottles and stones, resulting in injuries to them. The area around L.J. Road and nearby roads were strewn with shattered glass and stones with riotous Muslim mobs running around shouting \"\"Allah-hu-Akbar\" and indiscriminately throwing stones in Kapad Bazar. To maintain law and order, police resorted to firing which resulted in injuries to two Muslims. Seven police personnel were injured in the riot and the motorcycle was completely damaged.\n\nJogeshwari area, which has been the hotbed of frequent communal riots saw serious riots at the junction of Pascal Colony and Shankar Wadi. A police officer on duty received a bullet injury in his head and died subsequently, though it cannot be said with certitude that it was a case of private firing. The police recovered large number of iron rods, sickles, choppers, knives and soda water bottles from different jurisdictions indicating that there was intention and preparations to carry on the communal riots.\n\nA violent Muslim mob ransacked a Police chowky at Maulana Shaukat Ali Road and physically assaulted one Police constable, Pandit Malhari Ahire. Ahire was attacked with swords and choppers and suffered grievous injuries. At about the same time a huge Muslim mob of about 4,000–5,000 collected on Maulana Shaukat Ali Road and in the lanes and by–lanes of the area. The mob went on damaging and destroying the vehicles and public property and indulged in indiscriminate stone throwing. Ahire’s life was saved by prompt action by Senior Police Inspector Pawar along with other officers who carried on firing to restore peace.\n\nOn 8 December 1992 communal rioting and communal violence spread to 33 jurisdictions, the number of clashes of rioting mobs with police as well as rioting mobs inter se increased alarmingly. Attacks on places of worship also continued. Shiv Sena systematically attacked Muslim men, women and children during that time.\n\nThe police had to resort to firing in 43 cases resulting in the death of 11 Hindus, 31 Muslims and three others. There were several cases of mob violence, stabbing and arson. One temple in Dharavi, one in Deonar, one in Park Site and one in Saki Naka were attacked. Simultaneously, two mosques in Dharavi, one madrasa in Mahim and Bhoiwada each and one dargah in Dadar were also attacked.\n\nThough the police found their resources stretched, they were unwilling to take the help of army for carrying out operational duties. Army columns were used only to carry out flag marches which had little impact on the, by now hardened and emboldened, rioters. The imposition of curfew from the night of 7 December 1992 also did not appear to deter the clashing mobs in view of its effete enforcement. Police intervention came about by resort to fire on 72 occasions, killing 15 Hindus and 72 Muslims and injuring 131 Muslims and one Christian.\n\nThe situation improved for better and the number of cases of mob violence, stabbing, arson and rioting showed a downward trend. The number of occasions when the police had to resort to firing dropped to 28. The police firing resulted in deaths of 17 persons (five Hindus and 12 Muslims) while 3 Hindus, 12 Muslims and six others sustained injuries. Thirty–four cases of arson resulting in loss of property and injuries to one Hindu and 10 Muslims were reported from different jurisdictions. One temple in Ghatkopar, 3 mosques in Trombay and one kabrastan in Jogeshwari were subjected to attack by violent mobs.\n\nThe situation improved further with the number of police stations affected coming down to four, though serious communal riots occurred in Dharavi and Mahim police jurisdictions to control which the police had to fire on three and two occasions respectively. Two Muslims were injured in police firing within the jurisdiction of Mahim.\n\nOn this day there was one case of private firing in Azad Maidan jurisdiction in which one Muslim died and four Muslims were injured. However, there was further improvement in overall situation. There was no occasion for police to resort to firing, though 23 different police stations appear to have been affected in varying degrees.\n\nThe situation showed further improvement and the number of police stations affected came down to 14, though there also the occurrences were stray. There were three instances of police firing, one each in Ghatkopar, Bhandup and Dindoshi in which one Hindu and one Muslim were injured. Mob violence took the toll of one life. There were six cases of stabbing in which 1 Hindu and two Muslims died and one Hindu and one Muslim sustained injuries. There were eight stray cases of arson. Four dead bodies, all of Muslims, having multiple stab wounds on vital organs and in highly decomposed condition, were recovered from a gutter in Golibar area.\n\nIn yet another incident, one was found murdered with her throat slit and her body was dumped in the open compound of National Girls’ High School adjoining Behrampada.\n\nThe December phase of the rioting petered out by 12 December 1992. The police appeared to have regained grip on the law and order situation and peace appeared to have returned. However, beneath the surface there was simmering discontent and seething anger amongst the Muslims that unduly excessive police firing had resulted in large number of Muslim casualties. Media had criticised the police for having used unnecessary and excessive fire–power, going so far as to suggest that Muslims were intentionally targeted and selectively killed. This refrain was repeated by political leaders and ministers, past and current. The explanation of the commissioner of police that the aggressive and violent mobs in the initial stages comprised Muslims and therefore, Muslim casualties were higher. Considering it from all aspects, the Commission was not inclined to give serious credence to the theory that dis–proportionately large number of Muslim deaths in December 1992 was necessarily indicative of an attempt on the part of the police to target and liquidate Muslims because of bias.\n\nOn 20 December 1992, two Muslims were locked inside a room in Goregaon jurisdiction, and the room was set on fire as a result of which they suffered severe burns resulting in the death of one.\n\nTwo bodies, one of a male Hindu and another identified as that of a uniformed Muslim police constable attached to the Nasik Rural Police Headquarters, were recovered from the septic tank of the public latrine in Behrampada on 20 and 21 December 1992 respectively. These bodies bore multiple stab injuries. It would appear that there was a systematic attempt to stab and murder Hindus and the policeman, though a Muslim, became a victim of the anger of the Muslims directed against the uniform worn by him.\n\nOn 24/25 December 1992 one Mathadi worker was killed in Dongri area. Though subsequent investigation by police resulted in arrest of the accused who was an alcoholic and whose motive was far from communal, at the material time the immediate reaction was that the killing was done of a Muslim.\n\nThe fires under the simmering cauldron were continuously stoked by communal activities even after the active phase of the December 1992 riots was over. There was a sudden spurt in attendance at Friday namaaz in mosques, which was interpreted by the Hindu as ominous and evidencing intent to seek revenge on the part of Muslims. This was because it was alleged that the namaaz were used as occasions for delivering instigatory communal speeches. The Hindus replied with Maha aartis (Great Hindu worship of the God), in an ostensible response against the sudden spurt in namaaz on streets. The Maha aartis were started from 26 December 1992 were viewed as a direct challenge to the Muslims, and endangered the fragile peace which had been established, with allegations that participants of the Maha aartis indulged in rioting. The Maha aartis continued unabated throughout January 1993 and came to an end only by or about the first week of February 1993.\n\nThe last week of December 1992 and first week of January 1993, particularly between 1 and 5 January, saw a series of stabbing incidents in which both Hindus and Muslims were victims, though the majority of such incidents took place in Muslim dominated areas of South Bombay and a majority of victims were Hindus. The stabbings appeared to be executed with professional accuracy intended to kill the victims. The killers had not been then identified in several cases, though it was presumed, at least in the cases where the Hindus were victims, that the killers were Muslims and vice versa. The motive for the stabbings appears to have been to whip up communal frenzy between Hindus and Muslims. Some of the Muslim criminal elements operating in South Bombay, like Salim Rampuri and Firoz Konkani, have been identified as the brains behind the stabbing incidents. That they were Muslim criminals was publicised in the media, and it was general opinion that the Muslims were keen on resuming aggression.\n\nOn 25 December 1992 a pamphlet in Urdu language was distributed around Jama Masjid in Mahim area. This pamphlet was communally provocative and incited Muslims to fight against Hindus and calls upon the Muslims to the construct the Babri Masjid if necessary, with blood.\n\nOn 1 January 1993 there was an article in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, Saamna under the caption \"Hindunni Akramak Vhayala Have\"\" (Hindus must be aggressive now), openly inciting Hindus to violence.\n\nOn 2 January 1993 a number of Muslim hutments in M.P. Mill Compound in Tardeo jurisdiction were set on fire. On the same day there was an incident in Dharavi jurisdiction in which two Muslims were assaulted with iron rods by Hindus.\n\nOn 4 January 1993 a big mob of Hindus led by Gajanan Kirtikar, Ramesh More and other Shiv Sena activists took a morcha to the Jogeshwari Police Station complaining of lack of security for Hindus. Some of the people in the morcha attacked Chacha Nagar Masjid and the Muslims in the vicinity and killed them. Several Muslim huts in Magdum Nagar in Mahim jurisdiction were set on fire by Hindus.\n\nOn the night of 5 January 1993 a worker employed in the godown of Vijay Transport Company who was sleeping in the godown went to the street to relieve himself. Suddenly, he was set upon by miscreants who stabbed him to death. Three more workers who came out of the godown to help him were also stabbed to death. The murders of the workers created tremendous tension in the area. The workers' Union called for a Bandh. Huge meetings were held which were addressed by leaders of Unions. Speeches were made during this meeting to condemn the police and Government for their ineffectiveness with exhortations that Hindus might have to pick up swords to defend themselves if the police failed to protect them. At the time when these murders of workers took place, neither the police, nor the public, had a clue as to the identity of the killers, which came to be established much later. Nonetheless, the Hindus spearheaded by the Shiv Sena kicked up a furore that the murders had been committed by Muslims, virtually giving a call for arms, killing 10 Muslims. On 5/6 January 1993 the workers gave a call for bandh of wholesale markets, which also gave immense publicity to the murders of the workers allegedly by Muslims.\n\nOn 6 January 1993 there were several cases of stabbing in Dongri, Pydhonie, V.P. Road and Nagpada jurisdictions in which the victims were innocent pedestrians who were stabbed. Cases of stabbing, arson, mob violence and attacks on private and Government properties occurred in Dongri, Pydhonie, V.P. Road, Nagpada, Tardeo, Mahim, Dharavi, Nirmal Nagar, Chembur and Kherwadi police stations. Most of the stabbing cases occurred in isolated lanes and bye–lanes and by the time police arrived on the scene, the miscreants would vanish. In all, 18 cases of stabbing were reported by the evening of this day of which were from Pydhonie, two from Dharavi, two from V.P. Road, two from Nagpada and one each from Nirmal Nagar, Kherwadi and Andheri. These stabbing cases resulted in one Hindu, one Muslim and two others being killed and 1 Hindu, one Muslim and one other being injured. Mob violence accounted for the deaths of one Hindu and one Muslim and injuries to nine Hindus and eighteen Muslims. Rumours of further imminent riots swept the city and the police were unable to scotch them. Despite repeated denials of such rumours by the police, the public did not believe them.\n\nThe situation in Mahim went out of control at 2100 hours. Hindus attacked Muslims in Muslim pockets in Mahim area and killed them, led by Shiv Sena Corporator, Milind Vaidya, and a police constable, Sanjay Gawade, openly carrying a sword. There were serious riots in which frenzied mobs of Hindus and Muslims attacked each other.\n\nThe violence and riots spread to several parts of the city. There were more deaths and more stabbings and 16 police station areas (Pydhonie, Dongri, Agripada, Gamdevi, V.P. Road, Byculla, Bhoiwada, Nagpada, Kherwadi, Nehru Nagar, Kurla, Deonar, Trombay, Bandra, Vakola and Jogeshwari) were affected by serious riots. The stabbing incidents resulted in deaths of 16 Hindu and four Muslims and injured 3 Hindus and twelve Muslims.\n\nEleven cases of mob violence occurred in different jurisdictional areas, killing two Muslims and injuring two Hindus and two Muslims. Seven cases of arson were reported on that day in which, apart from huge property loss, two Muslims were killed; two Hindus and two Muslims were injured. The police resorted to firing on four occasions, resulting in injuries to 3 Hindus and 5 Muslims. Violent mobs of Hindus and Muslims kept attacking each other and the police when they tried to intervene.\n\nThe mobs also created roadblocks to prevent the police and fire-brigade from reaching the sites of incidents for rendering assistance. A taxi in which three Muslims were travelling was set on fire by Shiv Sena workers in Pratiksha Nagar, Antop Hill jurisdiction, resulting in the 2 Muslims being burnt alive.\n\nA gruesome incident occurred during the wee hours of 8 January 1993, at about 0030 hours, one of the Hindu residences in a chawl popularly known as Radhabai Chawl in Jogeshwari jurisdiction were locked from outside and set on fire by miscreants. One male and two female members of a Hindu family (Bane) were charred to death. One of the victims was a physically handicapped girl.\n\nThe Hindu backlash commenced. The communal riots spread to the jurisdictions of Pydhonie, Dongri, Jogeshwari, M.R.A. Marg, L.T. Marg, V.P. Road, D.B. Marg, Gamdevi, Nagpada, Agripada, Byculla, Kala Chowki, N.M. Joshi Marg, Worli, Bhoiwada, Dadar, Mahim, Dharavi, Kurla, Nehru Nagar, Trombay, Chembur, Bandra, Nirmal Nagar, Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Parksite, Vakola, Oshiwara, D.N. Nagar, Jogeshwari and Aarey sub–police stations.\n\nSixty–six stabbing cases were reported from different jurisdictions, in which 3 Hindu, 37 Muslims and two others were killed and injuries caused to several Muslims. Forty–eight cases of mob violence occurred in which sixteen Muslims were killed and 4 Hindus and 17 Muslims and one other received injuries. Thirty–one cases of arson were reported which, apart from causing loss of property, resulted in deaths of two Muslims and injuries to five Muslims and one Hindu.\n\nA dargah and mosque in Pydhonie jurisdiction, a kabrastan and a madrassa in Jogeshwari jurisdiction and a temple in Byculla jurisdiction were attacked and damaged. Police resorted to firing on 31 occasions in different jurisdictions resulting in the killing of six Hindus and 18 Muslims and injuries to 10 Hindus and 24 Muslims and one other. Several raids conducted by the police resulted in seizure of weapons of offence like broken tube lights, swords, petrol bombs and daggers.\n\nThat the rioters had become defiant and the authority of the police was considerably eroded, appeared clear when a crude bomb was hurled at the police commissioner's car from one of the buildings in Pydhonie jurisdiction and exploded on the road. The commissioner of police and his staff had a lucky escape, though the severity of the explosion caused a big dent on the road. Eleven army columns were deployed by the police to do Flag March in different areas. Curfew was imposed in areas where it was considered necessary.\n\nThe riots continued unabated in 43 police station jurisdictions. Fifty–seven cases of stabbing resulting in death of five Hindus and 18 Muslims and injuries to 7 Hindus, 41 Muslims and one other, were reported. Ninety–seven cases of mob violence occurred in various parts of the city resulting in the death of one Hindu and sixteen Muslims and injures to 9 Hindus and 24 Muslims. Seventy-three cases of arson were reported from different jurisdictions which caused loss of property, death of a Hindu and six Muslims and injures to two Hindus and six Muslims.\n\nIn Pydhonie jurisdiction, few rounds were fired at a police picket from the Suleman Bakery rooftop. The policemen climbed to the terrace of the Taj Book Depot, a neighbouring building, and sighted 8 – 10 persons hiding behind the water tank on the bakery rooftop. Inspector Anant Ingale shouted warnings and fired a few shots from his service revolver, but his party was no match to the automatic weapon wielding group. Joint Commissioner of Police R. D. Tyagi arrived with the Special Operations Squad (SOS), and demanded the opening of the locked door of the Bakery. The inmates responded by throwing soda-water bottles and acid bulbs. The SOS stormed into the Bakery and were promptly attacked by about 15 people armed with choppers, knives and ironbars. There wasn't surrender or ceasement of attack, so the Police had to open fire. Totally, 78 Muslims were flushed out of the bakery dead, by the police.\n\nFifty–two cases of police firing occurred in different jurisdictions, killing 5 Hindus, 22 Muslims and one other. Police combing operations resulted in seizure of stocks of swords, iron bars, choppers, kerosene cans, acid bulbs and soda water bottles from different areas.\n\nTwenty–six army columns were deployed for carrying out flag marches and for the first time the Government issued instructions to the commissioner of police that the army personnel may be directed to do operational duties by resorting to firing after taking control of a situation. Fifty–one police stations were affected by the riots. Eighty–one cases of stabbing occurred in different jurisdictions resulting in deaths of 10 Hindus and 39 Muslims and injuries to 12 Hindus and 42 Muslims. One hundred and eight cases of arson occurred in which there was property loss, death of one Hindu, seven Muslims and two others, while one Hindu, one Muslim and one other were injured. Attempts of the fire brigade to reach the places of fire were frustrated by the rioters who not only blocked the streets but also threatened the fire brigade staff and resorted to stone throwing against the fire brigade vehicles. Fires blazed uncontrolled.\n\nMob violence was reported from 25 jurisdictions causing deaths of two Hindus, nineteen Muslims, while 3 Hindus, 27 Muslims and two others were injured.\n\nThe police were given orders to fire and resorted to firing on 82 occasions, resulting in deaths of 2 Hindus, 23 Muslims and one other, while injuries were caused to 7 Hindus, 27 Muslims and two others. Police seized large number of swords, choppers, tube lights, fire balls, soda water bottles, iron bars, guptis and also one country made revolver. The situation was very grave in several jurisdictional areas. Even normally law-abiding citizens seemed gripped by the communal frenzy and were seen attacking members of the rival community. Peace committee members, politicians and other social workers were conspicuous by their absence. Communal hatred and fear psychosis appeared to have overtaken the citizens of Bombay making tolerance and reason prime casualties. Rumours about attacks from rival community swept the city.\n\nThe situation continued to be serious. Fifty–two police stations were affected by communal violence in varying degrees. Eighty–six cases of stabbing occurred in different jurisdictions resulting in the death of 11 Hindus, 44 Muslims and 1 other; 11 Hindus, 68 Muslims and one other were injured. Four Hindus, 19 Muslims and two others were killed in 129 incidents of mob violence in different jurisdictions. Ninety–three cases of arson in different jurisdictions resulted in the death of two Hindus and 20 Muslims and injuries to seventeen Muslims. Police firing on 67 occasions caused to deaths of 3 Hindus and 15 Muslims and injuries to 11 Hindus, 41 Muslims and two others. The army column was used for operational duty in Dadar jurisdiction where it fired on a riotous mob of Hindus without causing any injuries. Police raids in several Muslim pockets unearthed several swords, knives, choppers, kerosene bottles, acid bulbs, tube lights, one country made revolver and live cartridges.\n\nIn Devipada in Kasturba Marg jurisdiction. A Hindu mob surrounds, strips and rapes two Muslim women. The older woman manages to run away. The uncle of the younger woman who comes to rescue the young girl of 19, and that girl, are beaten and burnt alive by the violent mob. The names of the miscreants are disclosed to police by a Hindu lady in the locality. (Though the miscreants were arrested and tried by the Sessions Court at Bombay, later on they were all acquitted on the ground that the panchanamas were defective and that the eye–witnesses were not produced). Police resorted to firing on 31 occasions in different jurisdictions resulting in the deaths of two Hindus and nine Muslims and injuries to 23 Hindus and seven Muslims. Fifty–six cases of stabbing occurred in different areas resulting in the deaths of three Hindus, 37 Muslims and injuries to 11 Hindus and 51 Muslims. Seventy–one cases of mob violence in different areas occurred in which one Hindu and nine Muslims were killed; six Hindus and 29 Muslims were injured. Seventy cases of arson were reported from different police stations, in which six Muslims were killed and one Muslim was injured.\n\nThe army column, come to rescue a group of sieged Muslims by Hindus in Antop Hill jurisdiction is attacked by a violent Hindu mob, resorts to firing to disperse the mob. Army column resorts to firing within the jurisdiction of Trombay jurisdiction against another rioting mob of Hindus killing one Hindu and injury to one.\n\nThe situation improves slightly in several areas; the number of affected police stations comes down to 48; stabbing cases to 36; mob violence to 67 and arson to 51. The police resort to firing on 24 occasions resulting in the killing of two Muslims and injuries to six Hindus and fourteen Muslims. Mob violence takes a toll of the lives of three Muslims and injures four Hindus and 18 Muslims. Stabbings cause the death of one Hindu and 19 Muslims, while two Hindus and 10 Muslims and one other are injured.\n\nThe situation shows substantial improvement. The number of affected police stations comes down to 40, the number of arson cases drops to 39, in which one Hindu and nine Muslims were killed apart from loss to property; mob violence is reported only in 34 cases in which seven Muslims and are killed and nine Muslims are injured; the police resort to firing only on four occasions in which no one is killed and one Hindu is injured. Stabbing cases resulted in death of three Hindus and 16 Muslims and three others, while six Hindus, 18 Muslims and one other are injured. The deployment of army columns is increased to 36.\n\ni) There is further improvement in the situation; the number of police stations affected comes down to 29; mob violence occurs only in 24 cases resulting in death of twelve Muslims and four Hindus and injuries to eight Muslims. The number of stabbing cases comes down to 12 in which one Hindu and 15 Muslims are killed and three Hindus and nine Muslims are injured; the number of arson cases comes down to 25 in which there was only loss of property without death or injury to anyone. The police resort to firing only on two occasions which result in killing of three Muslims, and injuries to 14 Muslims. Army column deployed at Nirmal Nagar resorts to firing to quell a riotous mob.\n\nii) The Prime Minister of India, Shri Narsimha Rao, makes a quick tour of the riot affected areas amidst heavy security arrangements.\n\nThe situation shows further improvement. Only 15 stray cases of stabbing are reported in which 12 Muslims are killed and injuries caused to seven Muslims. Seven mob violence cases occur resulting in injury to one Muslim; 23 stray cases of arson are reported in different areas in which there is only property loss. Police firing comes down to two cases in which none is injured.\n\nThe situation seems to be improving for the better. There is no occasion for the police to resort to firing. Three cases of stabbing are reported from different areas in which two Muslims were injured; three minor cases of mob violence occur causing injuries to thirteen Muslims; and six minor cases of arson reported in which, apart from loss of property, one Muslim is killed.\n\nThere was no occasion on which police resorted to firing on this day. There was one case of stabbing resulting in the killing of one Muslim, three minor cases of mob violence in which none was injured; five stray minor cases of arson were reported in which none was injured.\n\nThe city appears to be limping back to normalcy. Five stray cases of stabbing are reported in which one Muslim was killed and two Muslims were injured. Though nine stray cases of arson are reported, there was no loss of life or injury.\n\nFrom 20 January 1993 onwards there was no major communal incident despite a few stray cases being reported. The rumour mills worked overtime and rumours about imminent attacks and explosions likely to occur were thick. Call was given out by Imam of Jama Masjid that Muslims should boycott the Republic Day and hoist black flags on their establishments and houses. Police maintained continued vigil along with the army and para–military forces.\n\nOn 25 January 1993, there is a minor riot in Dharavi jurisdiction which is quickly controlled by police firing without any death or injury.\n\n26 January 1993 passed off peacefully in all jurisdictions except Dindoshi where the police resorted to firing in which two Muslims were killed and three Muslims were injured; mob violence caused injuries to two policemen and two Muslims.\n\nDuring the subsequent period in January the situation in the city slowly comes back to normalcy.\n\nDead – 900 (575 Muslims, 275 Hindus, 45 and 5 others). The causes for the deaths are police firing (356), stabbing (347), arson (91), mob action (80), private firing (22) and other causes (4).\n\nJustice Srikrishna, then a relatively junior Judge of the Bombay High Court, accepted the task of investigating the causes of the riots, something that many of his colleagues had turned down. For five years until 1998, he examined victims, witnesses and alleged perpetrators. Detractors came initially from left quarters who were wary of a judge who was a devout and practising Hindu. The Commission was disbanded by the Shiv Sena led government in January 1996 and on public opposition was later reconstituted on 28 May 1996; though when it was reconstituted its terms of reference were extended to include the Mumbai bomb blasts that followed in March 1993.\n\nThe report of the commission stated that the tolerant and secular foundations of the city were holding even if a little shakily. Justice Srikrishna indicted those he alleged as largely responsible for the second phase of the bloodshed and to some extent the first, the Shiv Sena.\n\nThe report was criticised as \"politically motivated\". For a while, its contents were a closely guarded secret and no copies were available. The Shiv Sena government rejected its recommendations. Since under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, an Inquiry is not a court of law (even if it conducts proceedings like a court of law) and the report of an inquiry is not binding on Governments, Srikrishna's recommendations cannot be directly enforced. To date, the recommendations of the Commission have neither been accepted nor acted upon by the Maharashtra Government. Many indicted policemen were promoted by the government and indicted politicians continue to hold high political office even today.\n\nAccording to the commission report, the causes of these riots were listed as \nThe immediate causes were listed as\nOnly 3 convictions happened in the 1992-93 Bombay riots cases. On 10 July 2008, a Mumbai court sentenced former Shiv Sena MP Madhukar Sarpotdar and two other party activists to a year's rigorous imprisonment in connection with the riots. However, he was immediately granted bail. He died on 20 February 2010 without serving his sentence.\n\nThe riots are portrayed in several different films:\n\n\nhttp://www.ebc-india.com/lawyer/articles/2004v6a5.htm (a critique of Indian and Western interpretative techniques).\nhttps://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2012/12/10/ayodhya-the-battle-for-indias-soul-the-complete-story/\n"}
{"id": "24563289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24563289", "title": "Canada Jam", "text": "Canada Jam\n\nCanada Jam was a rock music festival concert held at Mosport Park in Bowmanville, Ontario Canada, about 100 kilometres east of Toronto, on August 26, 1978. The festival was produced by Sandy Feldman and Leonard Stogel, who produced California Jam and California Jam II, and was sponsored by Carling O'Keefe. It attracted over 110,000 fans, making it the largest paying rock event in Canadian history at that time. The Molson Canadian Rocks for Toronto a.k.a. \"SARSfest\" featuring the Rolling Stones and AC/DC eclipsed that mark with an audience of 450,000 people on July 30, 2003.\n\nCanada Jam was the second of three major music festivals held at Mosport between 1970 and 1980. The other two were the Woodstock-esque Strawberry Fields Festival held August 7–9, 1970 and the punk and new wave themed, Heatwave Festival held August 23, 1980. Both these festivals were produced by Toronto promoter John Brower who facilitated the introduction to Mosport Park for Feldman and Stogel.\n\nCanada Jam acts in order of appearance:\n\nThe program ran for 18 hours (3 hours behind schedule) and ended with Triumph's encore at 3:35 AM.\n\nFour television specials were made from the event and broadcast across the CTV television network in Canada. Several performances from the show were eventually released on CD and video, both in bootleg and authorized form including performances by Kansas and Triumph. The event was hosted by CFTR-AM (AM680) in Toronto.\n\nApproximately 350 people were treated in the medical tent for fatigue, cuts and drug and alcohol-related ailments but no major incidents or problems occurred. Tickets for the event sold for $20.00 in advance and $30.00 on the day of the event and the event grossed an estimated 2.5 million dollars.\n\n"}
{"id": "58341093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58341093", "title": "Chequers plan", "text": "Chequers plan\n\nThe Chequers plan, also known as the Chequers deal or Chequers agreement, is a key white paper concerning Brexit, published 12 July 2018 by the UK Government under Prime Minister, Theresa May. It lays out the type of relationship the UK seeks to have with the European Union after Brexit. Its official title is The future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union.\n\nThe then Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union (Brexit Secretary), Dominic Raab, described it as a \"detailed proposal for a principled, pragmatic and ambitious future partnership between the UK and the EU\". He also stated that \"The white paper proposes a free trade area for goods to maintain frictionless trade, supported by a common rulebook and a new facilitated customs arrangement, but only for the rules that are necessary to provide frictionless trade at the border.\"\n\nThe white paper was finalised at a meeting of the UK Cabinet held at Chequers on 6 July 2018. Brexit Secretary David Davis and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson resigned in opposition to the plan.\n\nThe white paper is split into four chapters: economic partnership, security, cooperation and institutional arrangements. \n\nThe plan aims at holding the UK in a close relationship with the EU, stating that the new relationship be “broader in scope than any other that exists between the EU and a third country”. This would be done by establishing a new association agreement.\n\nA common rulebook on state aid would be agreed, preventing either side from subsidising their own industries. For its part, the UK will commit to maintaining high environmental, climate change, social, employment and consumer protection standards.\n\nWhen presenting the plan, Theresa May addressed the Irish border question, stating that there would be \"No hard border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, and no border in the UK\". A “facilitated customs agreement” would remove the need for customs checks by treating the UK and EU “as if a combined customs territory”. The UK would apply EU's tariffs and trade policy on goods intended for the bloc but would control its own tariffs and trade for the domestic market.\n\nDavid Davis, Brexit Secretary at the time of the Chequers meeting, resigned over the agreement on 8 July, as the next day did his Parliamentary Under-Secretary, Steve Baker, and the Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson.\n\nOn 18 July 2018, Boris Johnson delivered his resignation speech to the House of Commons. In his speech he avoided personal attacks on Theresa May, although he asserted that ministers were \"saying one thing to the EU about what we are really doing, and pretending another to the electorate\". Instead of adhering to the Lancaster House Vision set out in January 2017, Johnson said, \"a fog of self doubt [had] descended\" and that the government \"burned through negotiating capital\". He later added that \"it is not too late to save Brexit. We have time in these negotiations. We have changed tack once and we can change once again\". The speech received notable attention, with many noting its similarities to the 1990 resignation speech of Sir Geoffrey Howe as Deputy Prime Minister, which contributed to the resignation of Margaret Thatcher. Laura Kuenssberg of the BBC noted the seriousness of the speech, stating that \"it's the first Boris Johnson speech that I can remember watching that didn't have any jokes\". Jacob Rees-Mogg praised the speech, describing it as \"the speech of a statesman\", whereas Labour MP Wes Streeting described Johnson's speech as a \"damp squib\".\n\nThe EU's Chief Brexit Negotiator, Michel Barnier, has repeatedly stated that the integrity of the EU Single Market is \"not negotiable\", and that there can be no \"cherry picking\" of the Single Market's four freedoms: free movement of people, goods, services and capital. The UK's proposals outline staying in the EU Single Market for goods, but not the other three freedoms. The Chequers plan was eventually rejected by the EU, urging the UK to come up with another proposal. Theresa May, on the other hand, said that Britain needs to see more counter-proposals from the EU.\n\nIn November 2018, the Brexit negotiations concluded with a withdrawal agreement and a political declaration. The outcome needs support from the UK parliament the EU leaders. May described the political declaration as \"right for the whole of the UK\". Leader of the Opposition, Labour's Jeremy Corbyn, described it as \"26 pages of waffle\". The leaders from the remaining 27 EU countries endorsed the draft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1167865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1167865", "title": "Christmas Uprising", "text": "Christmas Uprising\n\nThe Christmas Uprising or Christmas Rebellion (Montenegrin: Божићна побуна, \"Božićna pobuna\" or Божићни устанак, \"Božićni ustanak\") refers to an uprising led by the Zelenaši, in response to the Podgorica Assembly's claim of authority to unite the Kingdom of Montenegro with the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes. The uprising reached a climax in Cetinje on 7 January 1919, the day of Orthodox Christmas.\n\nThe catalyst for the uprising was the decision of the controversial Grand People's Assembly in Montenegro (The Podgorica Parliament) for unconditional unification of Montenegro with the Kingdom of Serbia. Following a questionable candidate selection process, unionist side (in favor of unification with Serbia) outnumbered the party favouring the preservation of Montenegrin statehood and a unification with the peoples of Yugoslavia in form of a confederation. The uprising was named after the Orthodox Christmas of January 7, 1919, because it erupted on the previous day, on Christmas Eve. The Unionists, with support from the Serbian Army, defeated the Greens near Cetinje. Many homes were destroyed, and a number of participants in the uprising were tried and imprisoned. Part of the rebels fled to Italy, while others retreated to the mountains, continuing a guerrilla resistance under the banner of the Montenegrin Army in Exile which lasted until 1929. \n\nThe military leader of the uprising was Krsto Zrnov Popović and its political leader was Jovan S. Plamenac. After it occurred, the dethroned King Nicholas I was forced to issue a call for peace, but several groups of rebels continued to resist until 1929, most notably the militia of Savo Raspopović.\n\nMultiple historians acknowledge that a majority of Montenegrins supported the unification with other Southern Slavs on a federal basis after the World War I. However, support for unification did not involve the same degree of support for the Podgorica Assembly, since many of those who supported unification wanted Montenegro to join the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes as an autonomous entity, ultimately in a confederation rather than a centralized Serbian kingdom.\n\nOn December 22, 1918, Krsto Popović wrote a list of requests to Serbian general Dragutin Milutinović, asking for the termination of resolutions by the Podgorica Assembly. Milutinović replied to him the next day, alleging that he was responsible for his troops in Montenegro, but also promised to bring Popović's requests to the government in Belgrade.\n\nOn December 23, 1918, Milutinović's troops ended a smaller uprising in Rijeka Crnojevića and stopped an attack by the Greens on Nikšić. The next day, about 250 Serbian troops and 850 volunteers from nearby Montenegrin clans fought a formation of approximately 1,500 to 2,000 rebel Greens in Cetinje. On January 6, 1919, the Greens initiated a siege on Cetinje, killing some members of the Great National Assembly and killing some Whites. After that, the Greens experienced severe factionalism, in addition to facing the militarily stronger Whites.\n\nAs a result of the Podgorica Assembly, King Nicholas was exiled to the Kingdom of Italy, from which the uprising enjoyed substantial support. King Nicholas's Ministers asked for the Italian Expedition Corps in Albania to enter Montenegro, \"in order for it to be liberated solely by Italian troops\". A committee organized by Italian ethnographer Antonio Baldacci supported the Greens until at least 1921.\n\nIn late November 1918 during the Podgorica Assembly, Italian troops attempted to take control of the coastal areas of Montenegro under the guise of Entente troop movement, but got prevented from doing so.\n\nIn the spring of 1919, the United States sent Charles W. Furlong as an envoy from the Peace Commission to Montenegro. Furlong reported to \"The New York Times\" in an interview published on June 15, 1919, that the electors in the Podgorica Assembly acted as carpetbaggers did in the United States. \n\nAn initiative called the Inter-Allied Commission of Investigation monitored the Podgorica Assembly and the Blejaši after the uprising. It included Louis Franchet d'Espèrey, as well as lieutenants from the United States, United Kingdom, and Italy. They recorded that there were as few as 500 unionist troops in Montenegro, and that they were not exclusively Serbian but from other constituents of the new Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes. The commission also concluded from interviewing Greens held as prisoners that the uprising had been \"caused by agents of King Nicholas I and supported by some emissaries from Italy.\"\n\nLater in the twentieth century, the Christmas Uprising was subject to ideological emphasis in Montenegrin nationalism. In World War II, one of the earliest leaders of the Zelenaši, Sekula Drljević, invited the Italian occupation of Montenegro and collaborated with the Independent State of Croatia in order to break away from Yugoslavia. \n\nSince Montenegro declared independence from Serbia in 2006, the Christmas Uprising has been memorialized on polar opposite ends of the Montenegrin historical conscious. In 1941, a memorial on the burial site of unionist Bjelaši was destroyed by the Italian occupation of Montenegro in Cetinje. As of 2017, a walkway was paved on the same burial site in Cetinje without any recognition to the Bjelaši. On 7 January 2008, on the 90th anniversary of the uprising, Montenegrin Prime Minister Milo Đukanović revealed a memorial statue for the Greens who were killed in the insurrection.\n\n"}
{"id": "56383828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56383828", "title": "Crow Street Theatre", "text": "Crow Street Theatre\n\nCrow Street Theatre was a theatre in Dublin, Ireland, originally opened in 1758 by the actor Spranger Barry. From 1788 until 1818 it was a patent theatre.\n\nThe actor Spranger Barry (1719–1777), born in Dublin and appearing in London from 1746, induced the London-born actor Henry Woodward (1714–1777), who had saved £6,000, to participate in his project to build a theatre in Dublin. Charles Macklin participated at an early stage, but soon withdrew. Barry and Woodward moved to Dublin, and the Crow Street Theatre opened in October 1758. It struggled as a rival to the Smock Alley Theatre. \n\nIn 1760 Barry and Woodward opened a theatre in Cork, the Theatre Royal. By 1762 Woodward had lost half his savings; the partnership was dissolved, and he returned to London. Barry continued for a few more years, then also returned to London.\n\nHenry Mossop, manager of Smock Alley Theatre since 1760, took over Crow Street Theatre in 1767, but resigned the theatre in 1770; the actor Thomas Ryder, who ran Smock Alley Theatre from 1772, also ran Crow Street Theatre. In 1782 the actor Richard Daly became owner of the theatre, and in 1786, having obtained a patent from the Crown, he opened Crow Street Theatre in 1788 as the Theatre Royal, a patent theatre. £12,000 had been spent on rebuilding and decoration. It was profitable for a while, but later suffered from the opening of Astley's Amphitheatre.\n\nFrederick Edward Jones leased the theatre from Daly, and spent £1200 on renovating the house, which was decorated by Marinari and Zaffarini. It was opened in 1796, but closed when martial law was declared, relating to the Irish Rebellion of 1798. Jones obtained a new royal patent in 1798, and spent a further £5000 on the theatre, but in the political climate it had to close in 1803.\n\nThe theatre was wrecked in a riot of 1814; and there were further riots in 1819. Jones attributed his unpopularity to his being active in politics; in 1807 he had supported the election of an anti-ministerial member of parliament for Dublin. His application in 1818 for renewal of the patent was refused, being granted instead to Henry Harris, a proprietor of Covent Garden Theatre. The years of disruption had been financially detrimental, and he was imprisoned for debt. During the 1819–20 season the Crow Street Theatre did not open regularly. \n\nThe theatre was rented for a short period and opened as a circus, and was then abandoned. In 1836 the Apothecaries' Hall Company bought part of the site, and a medical school was built.\n"}
{"id": "39021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39021", "title": "Daytona 500", "text": "Daytona 500\n\nThe Daytona 500 is a Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series motor race held annually at Daytona International Speedway in Daytona Beach, Florida. It is the first of two Cup races held every year at Daytona, the second being the Coke Zero 400, and one of three held in Florida, with the annual championship showdown Ford EcoBoost 400 being held at Homestead south of Miami. It is one of the four restrictor plate races on the Cup schedule. The inaugural Daytona 500 was held in 1959 coinciding with the opening of the speedway and since 1982, it has been the season-opening race of the Cup series.\n\nThe Daytona 500 is regarded as the most important and prestigious race on the NASCAR calendar, carrying by far the largest purse. Championship points awarded are equal to that of any other Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series race. It is also the series' first race of the year; this phenomenon is virtually unique in sports, which tend to have championships or other major events at the end of the season rather than the start. Since 1995, U.S. television ratings for the Daytona 500 have been the highest for any auto race of the year, surpassing the traditional leader, the Indianapolis 500 which in turn greatly surpasses the Daytona 500 in in-track attendance and international viewing. The 2006 Daytona 500 attracted the sixth largest average live global TV audience of any sporting event that year with 20 million viewers.\n\nThe race serves as the final event of Speedweeks and is sometimes known as \"The Great American Race\" or the \"Super Bowl of Stock Car Racing\". Since its inception, the race has been held in mid-to-late February. From 1971 to 2011, and again since 2018, the event has been as associated with Presidents Day weekend, taking place on the Sunday before the third Monday in February.\n\nThe winner of the Daytona 500 is presented with the Harley J. Earl Trophy in Victory Lane, and the winning car is displayed in race-winning condition for one year at Daytona 500 Experience, a museum and gallery adjacent to Daytona International Speedway.\n\nAustin Dillon is the defending winner of the Daytona 500, having won it in 2018.\n\nThe race is the direct successor of shorter races held on the Daytona Beach Road Course. This long square was partially on the sand and also on the highway near the beach. Earlier events featured races with stock cars. Eventually, a stock car race was held at Daytona International Speedway in 1959. It was the second 500-mile NASCAR race, following the annual Southern 500, and has been held every year since. By 1961, it began to be referred to as the Daytona 500, by which it is still commonly known.\n\nDaytona International Speedway is long and a 500-mile race requires 200 laps to complete. However, the race is considered official after two stages (120 laps) have been completed (300 miles). The race has been shortened four times due to rain (in 1965, 1966, 2003, and 2009) and once in response to the energy crisis of 1974. Since the adaptation of the green–white–checker finish rule in 2004, the race has gone past 500 miles on seven occasions (2005, 2006, 2007, 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2015).\n\n\n\nThe qualifying procedure is unique for the Daytona 500. Some teams must race their way into the Daytona 500 field. The first row is set by a timed round of qualifying, held one week before the race (prior to 2003, this was two rounds; prior to 2001, it was three). The remainder of the field is set by two separate qualifying races (these were from 1959 to 1967; from 1969 to 2004; and with two lap overtime, if necessary, beginning in 2005 (these races were not held in 1968 due to rain). The top two drivers from the qualifying races who were not in the top 35 in owner points were given spots on the field, and the rest of the field was set by the finishing order of the duels, with guaranteed spots to those in the top 35. The remaining spots, 40 to 43, were filled by top qualifying times of those not already in the field from the qualifying race. If there was a previous NASCAR champion without a spot, he would get one of those four spots, otherwise, the fourth fastest car was added to the field.\n\nPrior to 2005 – and beginning again in 2013 – after the top two cars were set, the top fourteen cars in the qualifying races advance to the field, and then between six (1998–2003), eight (1995–97, 2004) or 10 (until 1994) fastest cars which do not advance from the qualifying race are added, then cars in the top 35 in owner points not locked into the race, and then the driver with the championship provisional, except for 1985 when no such car was eligible for a provisional starting spot, the only time that happened in the Daytona 500 from when the provisional was added in 1976 through 2004.\n\nThe Daytona 500 was the first auto race to be televised live flag-to-flag on network television when CBS aired it in 1979, continuing to air until 2000.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2006, the race alternated between FOX and NBC under the terms of a six–year, $2.48 billion NASCAR television contract, with FOX broadcasting the Daytona 500 in odd-numbered years (2001, 2003, 2005) and the Pepsi 400 in even-numbered years (2002, 2004, 2006) and NBC broadcasting the opposite race in that year.\n\nIn 2005, a new television contract was signed, which made FOX the sole broadcaster of the Daytona 500 for eight years, from 2007 to 2014. In 2013, 10 more years were added to the contract, giving FOX every Daytona 500 from 2015 to 2024 as well, for a total of at least 20 Daytona 500s in a row.\nThe installation of the lighting system at Daytona International Speedway in 1998, as well as the implementations of the television packages in 2001 and 2007 respectively, have resulted in the race starting and ending much later than it did in the race's early years. The race started at 12:15 p.m. EST from 1979 until 2000. The start time was moved to 1:00 p.m. Eastern time from 2001 to 2004, 2:30 p.m. in 2005 and 2006 and 3:30 p.m. from 2007 to 2009, all for the convenience of west coast viewers. The 2005 race ended at sunset for the first time in its history, and the 2006 race ended well after sunset.\n\nEvery Daytona 500 between 2006 and 2010, as well as the 2012 and 2014 races, ended under the lights. The changing track conditions caused by the onset of darkness in the closing laps in these years forced the crew chiefs to predict the critical car setup adjustments needed for their final two pit stops. The 2007 race was the first Daytona 500 to go into prime-time, ending at 7:07 p.m. Eastern time. In 2010, the race moved back to a 1:00 p.m. start time, which should have resulted in it ending in daylight; however, two red flags caused by track surface issues led to long delays that pushed the race to 7:34 p.m. EST, pushing the race into prime-time for the second time. The 2012 race was also scheduled to start at 1:00 p.m. EST on Sunday, February 26, but heavy rain in the area caused the race to be postponed to 7:00 p.m. EST on Monday, February 27, making it the first Daytona 500 to be postponed to a Monday, as well as the first (and only) Daytona 500 to be run as a night race. Due to a two–hour red flag period after a jet dryer fire on the track with 40 laps remaining, the race did not end until about 12:40 a.m. on Tuesday, February 28. The 2013 race marked a return to the race's past tradition of ending in the late afternoon, as it ended at about 4:40 p.m., the race's earliest ending time since 2004. Although the 2014 race started around 1:30 p.m. EST, heavy rain and a tornado warning red–flagged the race after 38 laps and it was delayed for a record six hours and 22 minutes; the race finished the entire 500–mile distance around after 11:00 p.m. the same day, which effectively competed with the time delayed East Coast broadcast of NBC's coverage of the 2014 Winter Olympics closing ceremony, scheduled between 7:00 and 10:30 p.m. The 2015 race started on time around 1:00  p.m., and ended after 203 laps due to a Green–white–checkered finish.\n\nThe television ratings for the Daytona 500 have surpassed those of the larger Indianapolis 500 (which has much larger physical attendance and international attendance) since 1995, even though the 1995 race was available in far fewer homes than the year before. Then-broadcaster CBS had lost well-established VHF (channels 2–13) affiliates in major markets as a result of the Fox affiliate switches of 1994. As an example, new affiliates WDJT in Milwaukee and WGNX in Atlanta — both cities that are home to NASCAR races — and WWJ in Detroit, close to Michigan International Speedway, were on the UHF band (channels 14–69), meaning that they had a significantly reduced broadcast area compared to former affiliates WITI, WAGA-TV, and WJBK, respectively. WDJT was not available in many Wisconsin markets by the time the Daytona 500 took place.\n\n\"For NASCAR Grand National winners at Daytona from 1949–1958, see Daytona Beach and Road Course.\"\n<nowiki>†</nowiki> – Andretti was born in a part of Italy that is now in Croatia, but became a naturalized American citizen. He remains the only foreign-born driver to win the race. \n‡ – Record for fastest Daytona 500 at set by Buddy Baker in 1980.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4017867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4017867", "title": "El Fagr", "text": "El Fagr\n\nEl Fagr (; also Al Fagr, \"The dawn\") is an Egyptian independent weekly newspaper, based in Cairo.\n\n\"El Fagr\" was first published on 3 June 2005. The paper is part of Al-Fagr for Printing and Publishing Inc. The weekly, published on Thursdays, is a sensationalist publication.\n\nHassan Amr is one of the former editors of the paper. As of 2013 Manal Lashin was the editor-in-chief of the weekly.\n\nIn its 21st edition, dated 17 October 2005, \"El Fagr\" was the first newspaper worldwide to republish on its (one cartoon) and page 17, a total of six cartoons portraying the Islamic prophet Muhammad of twelve cartoons originally published in the Danish newspaper \"Jyllands-Posten\". These twelve cartoons gave rise to the \"Jyllands-Posten\" Muhammad cartoons controversy. However, these caricatures received little attention in Egypt and the paper was not banned due to its reprints of the caricatures.\n\nIn March 2006 Amira Malsh, a journalist working for \"El Fagr\", was sentenced to a year in prison with hard labor because of libeling a judge in an article published in the paper.\n\nIn 2013 the weekly started an award in the memory of Al Husseiny Abu Deif, a journalist who died in December 2012 during clashes among the demonstrators.\n\n"}
{"id": "57031186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57031186", "title": "FEDU", "text": "FEDU\n\nFEDU () is an annual children's art festival held in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is held in May, lasts for six days and showcases extensive performing arts, literary and music programs from around the world. Furthermore, it organizes numerous workshops for children between the ages of 6 and 14. The festival was established in 2015 by a team headed by children's writer Fahrudin Kučuk in cooperation with the government of the Sarajevo Canton. The main festival venue is the Sarajevo National Theatre. The festival has hosted productions from over 20 countries. It is the only international children's art festival in the Balkans. \n\nThe festival has a competition format that includes three main programmes: Musical, Theatrical and Fairy tale, while also running smaller programmes for puppetry, interactive education, costume design and fine arts. The musical programme holds both choir and solo singing sub-programmes as well as instrumental programmes broken down into range groups. The theatrical programme hosts Bosnian and international children's theatre companies with the productions being showcased in the Sarajevo National Theatre, the Kamerni teatar 55 and the Sarajevo Youth Theatre. The Fairy tale programme is a literary competition open to adults and it awards the best new children's fairy tale of the year. The awards ceremony is held in the Sarajevo National Theatre on the last day of the festival. It has hosted productions by the Stretford Children's Theatre, Silver Lake Children's Theatre Group, Young Spectator's Theatre, Puppet Theatre Mostar, Branko Mihaljević Children's Theatre and others. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51071195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51071195", "title": "Formula 4 UAE Championship", "text": "Formula 4 UAE Championship\n\nStarting in the 2015–16 season, the all new Formula 4 UAE Championship will be launched by the Federation Internationale de l'Automobile, and its national affiliate the Automobile & Touring Club of the United Arab Emirates (ATCUAE), who will act as the championship's promoter.\n\nIn 2013, the FIA Single seat commission announced their intention to introduce a new category of single seat racing in order to bridge the gap between karting and Formula 3.\n\nThroughout the following two years, the ATCUAE has worked to develop a Formula 4 championship for the UAE, which will be the first in the Middle East and North African region. One of the first steps taken was to appoint Dubai based AUH Motorsports to manage the championship, based on their experience and expertise in having run the regional Radical Sportscars series for several years.\n\nIn February 2016, the championship was launched in spectacular fashion in front of the world's tallest building, the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, with the public unveiling of the car undertaken by HH Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, the Minister of Culture and Knowledge Development and Chairman of the General Authority for Youth and Sports Welfare, and Mohammed Ben Sulayem, President of the ATCUAE.\n\nFollowing the launch in February 2016, the car was given its first test around the Dubai Autodrome, driven by Dubai-born Indy Lights driver Ed Jones.\n\nThe inaugural 2016–17 championship will feature eighteen races over six weekends, four of which will be held at the Yas Marina Circuit in Abu Dhabi, with the remaining two at the Dubai Autodrome.\n\nThe championship features Tatuus designed and built cars. The cars are constructed out of carbon fibre and feature a monocoque chassis. The engine is a 1.4 turbo Abarth.\n\nThis combination of chassis and engine is the same as that already used in the Italian F4 Championship, F4 Spanish Championship, ADAC Formula 4 and SMP F4 Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "15621486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15621486", "title": "Gene Morrison", "text": "Gene Morrison\n\nGene Anthony “Rocky” Morrison (born 1958) was a fraudulent forensic detective who operated over three decades in the Hyde area of Greater Manchester, England, under the title Dr. Gene Morrison.\n\nMemorable for his trademark sheepskin jacket, during the course of his deception he managed to trick not only members of the public, but also many judges, lawyers and the police themselves, into believing he was a genuine expert in forensic science.\n\nAppearing in court, he insisted on being referred to as \"Doctor\" throughout the entire trial, and the jury were supposedly reduced to laughter on many occasions throughout the proceedings. Morrison pleaded guilty to two charges and was found guilty on 20 of the remaining 23; he was sentenced to five years imprisonment, with police suggesting that Morrison may attempt to revive his forensic services upon release. \n\nA video documentary was made about Morrison. Entitled \"Crime Scene Conman\", it was first shown on BBC1 on 25 March 2008.\n\nOn 15 October 2009, Morrison was convicted of thirteen child sex offences (three counts of rape, six counts of indecent assault, four counts of engaging in sexual activity with a child) and one count of perverting the course of justice committed between the 1970s and 2007, with 19 other charges taken into consideration.\n\nHe was sentenced to an indeterminate term of imprisonment with a minimum of seven-and-a-half years, to be served cumulatively with the five-year sentence. Morrison will be eligible for parole in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "39361353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39361353", "title": "Guang Da Xing No. 28 incident", "text": "Guang Da Xing No. 28 incident\n\nThe \"Guang Da Xing No. 28\" incident was a fatal shooting incident that occurred on 9 May 2013 involving the Taiwanese fishing boat \"Guang Da Xing No. 28\" and the Philippine Coast Guard patrol boat \"Maritime Control Surveillance 3001\", which led to the death of Taiwanese fisherman Hung Shih-cheng (洪石成) by gunfire from the Philippine vessel.\n\nThe incident occurred in the high seas, within the overlapping exclusive economic zones of Taiwan and the Philippines. After the incident, Taiwan imposed sanctions and conducted a two-day \"safety and rescue drill\" with its Naval and Coast Guard forces near the waters where the incident occurred, on the grounds that the killing took place within its exclusive economic zone and the Philippine authority's action was in violation of international law. A Philippine official stated that the shooting was a reaction to the threat of being rammed. The incident came under separate investigations by Taiwanese and Philippine authorities; Taiwanese authorities presented evidence of more than 50 bullet holes found on the fishing boat, while Philippine authorities examined a video tape recording of the incident.\n\nThe Philippines released the result of the National Bureau of Investigation's inquiry into the incident on 7 August 2013; the NBI recommended homicide charges against eight Philippine Coast Guard personnel involved in the shooting and recommended sanctions against four others for allegedly trying to alter evidence. A day after the release of the investigation report, a representative of the Philippine government traveled to Taiwan to officially apologize to the victim's family. Taiwan subsequently lifted the sanctions it imposed against the Philippines and issued a statement announcing that relations between the two countries have normalized.\n\nTaiwan, the Philippines and China contest control of fishing waters in the South China Sea. On May 7, Chinese media reported that a large number of Chinese fishing vessels were on their way to disputed waters for a 40-day fishing expedition. The announcement provoked an angry response by some politicians in the Philippines, where an election was scheduled for May 13. Walden Bello, a spokesman for the left Akbayan party in a coalition with the ruling Liberal Party, called the fishing flotilla \"tantamount to an invasion\" and warned that Chinese \"naval warships and troops\" might follow. Taiwanese fishing vessels were also in the region.\n\nOn 9 May 2013, the Taiwanese fishing boat \"Guang Da Xing No. 28\" () was operating about 164 nautical miles southeast of Cape Eluanbi, Taiwan. The vessel was captained by Captain Hung Yu-chih (洪育智); other crew members on board included the captain's father, Hung Shih-cheng (洪石成), the captain's brother-in-law, Hung Jie-shang and an Indonesian national.\n\nThe Filipino \"Maritime Control Surveillance 3001\" (MCS-3001), a 35-meter vessel jointly manned by the Philippine Coast Guard and Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources personnel, detected two fishing boats at 43 nautical miles east of Balintang Island, an area that is within the overlapped EEZs of both Taiwan and the Philippines. The Philippine Coast Guard opened fire on the fishing boat during a 50-minute chase that ended around 10:00am. Fifty-nine (59) bullet holes (45 of which were entry holes) were found on the vessel and the slugs were identified as coming from a semi-automatic rifle. The vessel suffered significant damage, including engine failure, while the main deck experienced severe and concentrated attack, based on the distribution of the bullet holes.\n\nThe incident occurred in the overlapping exclusive economic zones between Taiwan and the Philippines. The site of the incident is 43 nautical miles east of Balintang Island according to the Philippine Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources and 170 nautical miles south of Taiwan according to Taiwan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, both well within the 200 nautical mile range prescribed by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.\n\nAs the first response, the Coast Guard Administration of Taiwan dispatched the 2,000-ton ROCCGC \"Tainan\" (CG-126) to the rescue of the stricken vessel and escort it back to its home port. Two Taiwanese fishing vessels assisted in the effort to tow the \"Guang Da Xing No. 28\" back to Taiwan under the escort of the CGA. The incident led to the death of Taiwanese national Hung Shih-cheng (洪石成), who was 65.\n\nThe President of the Philippines, Benigno Aquino III, sent his personal representative to make an unofficial apology for the death of the Taiwanese fisherman on 15 May 2013, dispatching the chairman of the Manila Economic and Cultural Office, Amadeo R. Perez, to Taipei, Taiwan as his personal representative. However, Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou rejected the apology since it called the shooting \"unfortunate\" and \"unintentional\", insisting that Manila offer a formal apology and just compensation. The Philippines publicly welcomed a joint investigation with Taiwanese investigators on the incident in the first place, but later denied that it had ever made such an offer and rejected the joint investigation when the Taiwanese investigators arrived in Manila. Justice Secretary Leila de Lima stated that she would allow Taiwan to conduct an investigation parallel to that being conducted by the National Bureau of Investigation.\n\nThe victim's son, Hung Yu-chih (洪育智), refuted the Philippine Coast Guard's claim, stating that the 15-ton \"Guang Da Xing No. 28\" had a much lower speed compared to the 90-ton PCG vessel. He said their immediate reaction was to flee when the fishing boat encountered the armed Filipino vessel and allegations that the fishing boat had tried to ram the PCG vessel was self-serving and baseless.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice published an investigation report on May 15, indicating that 45 bullets hit the boat and that no signs of a collision were found on the boat, refuting the Philippine's claim that the Taiwanese boat had rammed the Filipino vessel. The report further states that there were total of 59 bullet holes with at least one under the waterline and four near the cabin where the crew was hiding, inferring that the PCG intended to kill the crew. According to the voyage data recorder, the shooting occurred at 19°59'47.27\"N and 122°55'41.37\"E, which is outside the Philippines' territorial waters, but within the shared EEZ. The report further stated that Hung Shih-cheng died of respiratory failure and hemorrhage caused by a single gunshot wound to the neck inflicted by a 7.62 mm caliber ammunition commonly used in weapons such as the M14 rifle, the M240 machine gun and the M60 machine gun. It gave his manner of death as homicide.\n\nOn May 10, Philippine Coast Guard Commandant Rear Admiral Rodolfo Isorena stated that the Taiwanese fishing boat together with another vessel were halted by the crew of MCS-3001 for an on-board inspection. The smaller of the two Taiwanese fishing boats did not respond to the warning and tried to ram the Philippine Coast Guard vessel. The commanding officer of MCS-3001 then gave the order to open fire at Guang Ta Hsin-28 to disable its engine. Two unidentified vessels then arrived in the area, apparently to rescue the disabled Taiwanese vessel, prompting MCS-3001 to disengage and leave.\n\nOn May 17, investigators from the National Bureau of Investigation said that there are signs that the Philippine Coast Guard may have violated their so-called rules of engagement.\n\nThe National Bureau of Investigation disclosed the results of their investigation on 7 August 2013, recommending the filing of homicide charges against the Philippine Coast Guard personnel involved in the shooting. The NBI stated that eight crewmen were found to have fired at the Taiwanese vessel. The investigation report also stated that the shooting occurred within Philippine territory in the waterway off the Batanes Islands. In addition, the NBI also recommended that charges of obstruction of justice be filed against four Philippine Coast Guard personnel for tampering with evidence related to the shooting incident.\n\nA protest by 200 Taiwanese outside the Manila Economic and Cultural Office in Taipei was held condemning the Philippine government and sympathizing with the dead fisherman. They also burned Philippine flags as part of the protests.\nThe Republic of China (Taiwan) President Ma Ying-jeou urged the Taiwanese people not to vent their anger on Filipinos working in Taiwan and stated that the Philippine government should be held responsible. He insisted that like their Taiwanese fishermen, the Filipino migrant workers are making a living in Taiwan. Ma also suggested that a fishery agreement will help solve its maritime dispute with the Philippines\n\nRights groups in Taiwan also echoed the President's call to the Taiwanese people to refrain from targeting Filipinos in Taiwan. TransAsia Sisterhood Taiwan executive secretary Ly Vuoch, a Cambodian immigrant in Taiwan also insisted that not only Filipinos feel threatened when walking in the streets following the incident, but also other immigrants from Southeast Asia. Chen Hsiu-lien, policy researcher from the Taiwan International Workers’ Association, urged the Taiwanese public not to vent their anger towards the Philippine government on Filipino migrant workers. Chen also claimed that President Ma is encouraging people to vent their anger on Filipino workers and insisted that \"he would not have waited until now to ask people not to do so.\"\n\nAmid rumors of OFW abuse in Taiwan regarding the incident, former policeman Abner Afuang burned the Taiwanese flag in protest and urged the Taiwanese to \"show some respect\". Contingency measures were being arranged for OFWs in case the situation escalates according to Undersecretary Abigail Valte, deputy presidential spokesperson.\n\nHarry Roque, an associate professor at the University of the Philippines College of Law, stated that Taiwan is not a recognized sovereign body, hence has no right to force the Philippines into signing a fishing agreement. Under international law however, he said that Taiwan is entitled to compensation and an apology which should not be made by any higher ranking Philippine official other than the Manila Economic and Cultural Office representative.\n\nDeputy Presidential spokesperson Abigail Valte said the ramming by a Taiwanese boat in Philippine territorial waters as \"an aggressive act.\" Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) spokesman Commander Armand Balilo stated that the Filipino personnel had been properly carrying out their duties. He was quoted as saying, \"If somebody died, they deserve sympathy but not an apology.\"\n\nPCG Commandant Admiral Rodolfo Isorena vowed a thorough investigation into the incident and has already relieved 11 PCG personnel.\n\nOn May 15, President Benigno Aquino III assigned Manila Economic and Cultural Office (MECO) chairman Amadeo R. Perez, Jr. to be his personal representative to convey \"his and the Filipino people’s deep regret and apology to the family\". When asked if this is an apology on behalf of the Philippine government, the presidential spokesperson Edwin Lacierda replied: \"You take my statement as it is.\" Aquino also tasked the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) to conduct a probe on the incident however rejected to investigate the incident with the Taiwanese government. Presidential spokesperson Edwin Lacierda also added that the video of the shooting incident will also be part of the investigation.\n\nMay 9, 2013, on the day of incident, the Republic of China (Taiwan) Ministry of Foreign Affair expressed the concern to the government of the Philippines and urge them to investigate and bring the murder to justice. The ROC government issued a formal condemnation to the unjustified act by the Filipino officials on May 11. President Ma Ying-jeou subsequently demanded the Filipino government to respond to these four solemn requests within the next 72 hours:\nThe ROC government urged the Filipino government to act upon these requests without delay, or the Filipino representative would be sent back to Manila.\nOn May 12, Taiwan sent additional three Coast Guard cutters and one Navy warship carrying a S70-C helicopter to safeguard the Taiwanese fishing boats within its southern EEZ waters, and ignoring the Filipino EEZ claim. Next day, on May 15, one hour passed the 72-hour deadline, Minister of Foreign Affairs David Lin termed the Philippines' response as ambiguous and needed more \"clarity,\" and was not at all satisfied with the Filipino responses to the four requests. With the deterioration of the diplomatic relations between both sides, Premier Jiang Yi-huah issued several sanctions to the Filipino authorities, and authorized a joint Navy and Coast Guard \"Safety and Rescue Drill\" which involved Kidd-class DDG ROCS \"Ma Kong\", La Fayette-class FFG ROCS \"Chen De\" carrying one S-70C, Mirage 2000-5 and F-CK-1 IDF fighters, E-2 early-warning aircraft, as well as Coast Guard cutters at the overlapped EEZ area on the next day. In the meantime, Minister of Foreign Affairs David Lin issued a \"Red Alert\" traveling status to the Philippines, strongly discouraged any Taiwanese from traveling to the Philippines, signifying boycotting of tourism to the Philippines for political purposes, such as Boracay and other scenic spots. As of 21 May 2013, Boracay's hotels and resorts have been reporting cancellations by Taiwanese tourists, costing an estimated $55.3 million in revenue losses.\n\n"}
{"id": "13681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13681", "title": "Hyperinflation", "text": "Hyperinflation\n\nIn economics, hyperinflation is very high and typically accelerating inflation. It quickly erodes the real value of the local currency, as the prices of all goods increase. This causes people to minimize their holdings in that currency as they usually switch to more stable foreign currencies, often the US Dollar. Prices typically remain stable in terms of other relatively stable currencies like the US Dollar.\n\nUnlike low inflation, where the process of rising prices is protracted and not generally noticeable except by studying past market prices, hyperinflation sees a rapid and continuing increase in nominal prices, the nominal cost of goods, and in the supply of money. Typically, however, the general price level rises even more rapidly than the money supply as people try ridding themselves of the devaluing currency as quickly as possible. As this happens, the real stock of money (i.e., the amount of circulating money divided by the price level) decreases considerably.\n\nHyperinflation is often associated with some stress to the government budget, such as wars or their aftermath, sociopolitical upheavals, a collapse in export prices, or other crises that make it difficult for the government to collect tax revenue. A sharp decrease in real tax revenue coupled with a strong need to maintain government spending, together with an inability or unwillingness to borrow, can lead a country into hyperinflation.\n\nIn 1956, Phillip Cagan wrote \"The Monetary Dynamics of Hyperinflation\", the book often regarded as the first serious study of hyperinflation and its effects (though \"The Economics of Inflation\" by C. Bresciani-Turroni on the German hyperinflation was published in Italian in 1931). In his book, Cagan defined a hyperinflationary episode as starting in the month that the monthly inflation rate exceeds 50%, and as ending when the monthly inflation rate drops below 50% and stays that way for at least a year. Economists usually follow Cagan’s description that hyperinflation occurs when the monthly inflation rate exceeds 50%.\n\nThe International Accounting Standards Board has issued guidance on accounting rules in a hyperinflationary environment. It does not establish an absolute rule on when hyperinflation arises. Instead, it lists factors that indicate the existence of hyperinflation:\n\nWhile there can be a number of causes of high inflation, most hyperinflations have been caused by government budget deficits financed by money creation. Peter Bernholz analysed 29 hyperinflations (following Cagan's definition) and concludes that at least 25 of them have been caused in this way. A necessary condition for hyperinflation is the use of paper money, instead of gold or silver coins. Most hyperinflations in history, with some exceptions, such as the French hyperinflation of 1789-1796, occurred after the use of fiat currency became widespread in the late 19th century. The French hyperinflation took place after the introduction of a non-convertible paper currency, the assignats.\n\nHyperinflation occurs when there is a continuing (and often accelerating) rapid increase in the amount of money that is not supported by a corresponding growth in the output of goods and services.\n\nThe price increases that result from the rapid money creation creates a vicious circle, requiring ever growing amounts of new money creation to fund government deficits. Hence both monetary inflation and price inflation proceed at a rapid pace. Such rapidly increasing prices cause widespread unwillingness of the local population to hold the local currency as it rapidly loses its buying power. Instead they quickly spend any money they receive, which increases the velocity of money flow; this in turn causes further acceleration in prices. This means that the increase in the price level is greater than that of the money supply. The real stock of money, M/P, decreases. Here M refers to the money stock and P to the price level.\n\nThis results in an imbalance between the supply and demand for the money (including currency and bank deposits), causing rapid inflation. Very high inflation rates can result in a loss of confidence in the currency, similar to a bank run. Usually, the excessive money supply growth results from the government being either unable or unwilling to fully finance the government budget through taxation or borrowing, and instead it finances the government budget deficit through the printing of money.\n\nGovernments have sometimes resorted to excessively loose monetary policy, as it allows a government to devalue its debts and reduce (or avoid) a tax increase. Inflation is effectively a regressive tax on the users of money, but less overt than levied taxes and is therefore harder to understand by ordinary citizens. Inflation can obscure quantitative assessments of the true cost of living, as published price indices only look at data in retrospect, so may increase only months later. Monetary inflation can become hyperinflation if monetary authorities fail to fund increasing government expenses from taxes, government debt, cost cutting, or by other means, because either\n\nTheories of hyperinflation generally look for a relationship between seigniorage and the inflation tax. In both Cagan's model and the neo-classical models, a tipping point occurs when the increase in money supply or the drop in the monetary base makes it impossible for a government to improve its financial position. Thus when fiat money is printed, government obligations that are not denominated in money increase in cost by more than the value of the money created.\n\nFrom this, it might be wondered why any rational government would engage in actions that cause or continue hyperinflation. One reason for such actions is that often the alternative to hyperinflation is either depression or military defeat. The root cause is a matter of more dispute. In both classical economics and monetarism, it is always the result of the monetary authority irresponsibly borrowing money to pay all its expenses. These models focus on the unrestrained seigniorage of the monetary authority, and the gains from the inflation tax.\n\nIn neo-classical economic theory, hyperinflation is rooted in a deterioration of the monetary base, that is the confidence that there is a store of value that the currency will be able to command later. In this model, the perceived risk of holding currency rises dramatically, and sellers demand increasingly high premiums to accept the currency. This in turn leads to a greater fear that the currency will collapse, causing even higher premiums. One example of this is during periods of warfare, civil war, or intense internal conflict of other kinds: governments need to do whatever is necessary to continue fighting, since the alternative is defeat. Expenses cannot be cut significantly since the main outlay is armaments. Further, a civil war may make it difficult to raise taxes or to collect existing taxes. While in peacetime the deficit is financed by selling bonds, during a war it is typically difficult and expensive to borrow, especially if the war is going poorly for the government in question. The banking authorities, whether central or not, \"monetize\" the deficit, printing money to pay for the government's efforts to survive. The hyperinflation under the Chinese Nationalists from 1939 to 1945 is a classic example of a government printing money to pay civil war costs. By the end, currency was flown in over the Himalayas, and then old currency was flown out to be destroyed.\n\nHyperinflation is a complex phenomenon and one explanation may not be applicable to all cases. In both of these models, however, whether loss of confidence comes first, or central bank seigniorage, the other phase is ignited. In the case of rapid expansion of the money supply, prices rise rapidly in response to the increased supply of money relative to the supply of goods and services, and in the case of loss of confidence, the monetary authority responds to the risk premiums it has to pay by \"running the printing presses.\"\n\nNevertheless, the immense acceleration process that occurs during hyperinflation (such as during the German hyperinflation of 1922/23) still remains unclear and unpredictable. The transformation of an inflationary development into the hyperinflation has to be identified as a very complex phenomenon, which could be a further advanced research avenue of the complexity economics in conjunction with research areas like mass hysteria, bandwagon effect, social brain, and mirror neurons.\n\nA number of hyperinflations were caused by some sort of extreme negative supply shock, often but not always associated with wars, the breakdown of the communist system or natural disasters.\n\nSince hyperinflation is visible as a monetary effect, models of hyperinflation center on the demand for money. Economists see both a rapid increase in the money supply and an increase in the velocity of money if the (monetary) inflating is not stopped. Either one, or both of these together are the root causes of inflation and hyperinflation. A dramatic increase in the velocity of money as the cause of hyperinflation is central to the \"crisis of confidence\" model of hyperinflation, where the risk premium that sellers demand for the paper currency over the nominal value grows rapidly. The second theory is that there is first a radical increase in the amount of circulating medium, which can be called the \"monetary model\" of hyperinflation. In either model, the second effect then follows from the first—either too little confidence forcing an increase in the money supply, or too much money destroying confidence.\n\nIn the \"confidence model\", some event, or series of events, such as defeats in battle, or a run on stocks of the specie that back a currency, removes the belief that the authority issuing the money will remain solvent—whether a bank or a government. Because people do not want to hold notes that may become valueless, they want to spend them. Sellers, realizing that there is a higher risk for the currency, demand a greater and greater premium over the original value. Under this model, the method of ending hyperinflation is to change the backing of the currency, often by issuing a completely new one. War is one commonly cited cause of crisis of confidence, particularly losing in a war, as occurred during Napoleonic Vienna, and capital flight, sometimes because of \"contagion\" is another. In this view, the increase in the circulating medium is the result of the government attempting to buy time without coming to terms with the root cause of the lack of confidence itself.\n\nIn the \"monetary model\", hyperinflation is a positive feedback cycle of rapid monetary expansion. It has the same cause as all other inflation: money-issuing bodies, central or otherwise, produce currency to pay spiraling costs, often from lax fiscal policy, or the mounting costs of warfare. When business people perceive that the issuer is committed to a policy of rapid currency expansion, they mark up prices to cover the expected decay in the currency's value. The issuer must then accelerate its expansion to cover these prices, which pushes the currency value down even faster than before. According to this model the issuer cannot \"win\" and the only solution is to abruptly stop expanding the currency. Unfortunately, the end of expansion can cause a severe financial shock to those using the currency as expectations are suddenly adjusted. This policy, combined with reductions of pensions, wages, and government outlays, formed part of the Washington consensus of the 1990s.\n\nWhatever the cause, hyperinflation involves both the supply and velocity of money. Which comes first is a matter of debate, and there may be no universal story that applies to all cases. But once the hyperinflation is established, the pattern of increasing the money stock, by whichever agencies are allowed to do so, is universal. Because this practice increases the supply of currency without any matching increase in demand for it, the price of the currency, that is the exchange rate, naturally falls relative to other currencies. Inflation becomes hyperinflation when the increase in money supply turns specific areas of pricing power into a general frenzy of spending quickly before money becomes worthless. The purchasing power of the currency drops so rapidly that holding cash for even a day is an unacceptable loss of purchasing power. As a result, no one holds currency, which increases the velocity of money, and worsens the crisis.\n\nBecause rapidly rising prices undermine the role of money as a store of value, people try to spend it on real goods or services as quickly as possible. Thus, the monetary model predicts that the velocity of money will increase as a result of an excessive increase in the money supply. At the point when money velocity and prices rapidly accelerate in a vicious circle, hyperinflation is out of control, because ordinary policy mechanisms, such as increasing reserve requirements, raising interest rates, or cutting government spending will be ineffective and be responded to by shifting away from the rapidly devalued money and towards other means of exchange.\n\nDuring a period of hyperinflation, bank runs, loans for 24-hour periods, switching to alternate currencies, the return to use of gold or silver or even barter become common. Many of the people who hoard gold today expect hyperinflation, and are hedging against it by holding specie. There may also be extensive capital flight or flight to a \"hard\" currency such as the US dollar. This is sometimes met with capital controls, an idea that has swung from standard, to anathema, and back into semi-respectability. All of this constitutes an economy that is operating in an \"abnormal\" way, which may lead to decreases in real production. If so, that intensifies the hyperinflation, since it means that the amount of goods in \"too much money chasing too few goods\" formulation is also reduced. This is also part of the vicious circle of hyperinflation.\n\nOnce the vicious circle of hyperinflation has been ignited, dramatic policy means are almost always required. Simply raising interest rates is insufficient. Bolivia, for example, underwent a period of hyperinflation in 1985, where prices increased 12,000% in the space of less than a year. The government raised the price of gasoline, which it had been selling at a huge loss to quiet popular discontent, and the hyperinflation came to a halt almost immediately, since it was able to bring in hard currency by selling its oil abroad. The crisis of confidence ended, and people returned deposits to banks. The German hyperinflation (1919–November 1923) was ended by producing a currency based on assets loaned against by banks, called the Rentenmark. Hyperinflation often ends when a civil conflict ends with one side winning.\n\nAlthough wage and price controls are sometimes used to control or prevent inflation, no episode of hyperinflation has been ended by the use of price controls alone, because price controls that force merchants to sell at prices far below their restocking costs result in shortages that cause prices to rise still further.\n\nNobel prize winner Milton Friedman said \"We economists don't know much, but we do know how to create a shortage. If you want to create a shortage of tomatoes, for example, just pass a law that retailers can't sell tomatoes for more than two cents per pound. Instantly you'll have a tomato shortage. It's the same with oil or gas.\"\n\nHyperinflation effectively wipes out the purchasing power of private and public savings; distorts the economy in favor of the hoarding of real assets; causes the monetary base, whether specie or hard currency, to flee the country; and makes the afflicted area anathema to investment.\n\nOne of the most important characteristics of hyperinflation is the accelerating substitution of the inflating money by stable money—gold and silver in former times, then relatively stable foreign currencies after the breakdown of the gold or silver standards (Thiers' Law). If inflation is high enough, government regulations like heavy penalties and fines, often combined with exchange controls, cannot prevent this currency substitution. As a consequence, the inflating currency is usually heavily undervalued compared to stable foreign money in terms of purchasing power parity. So foreigners can live cheaply and buy at low prices in the countries hit by high inflation. It follows that governments that do not succeed in engineering a successful currency reform in time must finally legalize the stable foreign currencies (or, formerly, gold and silver) that threaten to fully substitute the inflating money. Otherwise, their tax revenues, including the inflation tax, will approach zero. The last episode of hyperinflation in which this process could be observed was in Zimbabwe in the first decade of the 21st century. In this case, the local money was mainly driven out by the US dollar and the South African rand.\n\nEnactment of price controls to prevent discounting the value of paper money relative to gold, silver, hard currency, or other commodities fail to force acceptance of a paper money that lacks intrinsic value. If the entity responsible for printing a currency promotes excessive money printing, with other factors contributing a reinforcing effect, hyperinflation usually continues. Hyperinflation is generally associated with paper money, which can easily be used to increase the money supply: add more zeros to the plates and print, or even stamp old notes with new numbers. Historically, there have been numerous episodes of hyperinflation in various countries followed by a return to \"hard money\". Older economies would revert to hard currency and barter when the circulating medium became excessively devalued, generally following a \"run\" on the store of value.\n\nMuch attention on hyperinflation centers on the effect on savers whose investments become worthless. Interest rate changes often cannot keep up with hyperinflation or even high inflation, certainly with contractually fixed interest rates. For example, in the 1970s in the United Kingdom inflation reached 25% per annum, yet interest rates did not rise above 15%—and then only briefly—and many fixed interest rate loans existed. Contractually, there is often no bar to a debtor clearing his long term debt with \"hyperinflated cash\", nor could a lender simply somehow suspend the loan. Contractual \"early redemption penalties\" were (and still are) often based on a penalty of \"n\" months of interest/payment; again no real bar to paying off what had been a large loan. In interwar Germany, for example, much private and corporate debt was effectively wiped out—certainly for those holding fixed interest rate loans.\n\nLudwig von Mises used the term \"crack-up boom\" (German: Katastrophenhausse) to describe the economic consequences of an unmitigated increasing in the base-money supply. As more and more money is provided, interest rates decline towards zero. Realizing that fiat money is losing value, investors will try to place money in assets such as real estate, stocks, even art; as these appear to represent \"real\" value. Asset prices are thus becoming inflated. This potentially spiraling process will ultimately lead to the collapse of the monetary system. The Cantillon effect says that those institutions that receive the new money first are the beneficiaries of the policy.\n\nHyperinflation is ended by drastic remedies, such as imposing the shock therapy of slashing government expenditures or altering the currency basis. One form this may take is dollarization, the use of a foreign currency (not necessarily the U.S. dollar) as a national unit of currency. An example was dollarization in Ecuador, initiated in September 2000 in response to a 75% loss of value of the Ecuadorian sucre in early 2000. But usually the \"dollarization\" takes place in spite of all efforts of the government to prevent it by exchange controls, heavy fines and penalties. The government has thus to try to engineer a successful currency reform stabilizing the value of the money. If it does not succeed with this reform the substitution of the inflating by stable money goes on. Thus it is not surprising that there have been at least seven historical cases in which the good (foreign) money did fully drive out the use of the inflating currency. In the end the government had to legalize the former, for otherwise its revenues would have fallen to zero.\n\nHyperinflation has always been a traumatic experience for the people who suffer it, and the next political regime almost always enacts policies to try to prevent its recurrence. Often this means making the central bank very aggressive about maintaining price stability, as was the case with the German Bundesbank, or moving to some hard basis of currency, such as a currency board. Many governments have enacted extremely stiff wage and price controls in the wake of hyperinflation, but this does not prevent further inflation of the money supply by the central bank, and always leads to widespread shortages of consumer goods if the controls are rigidly enforced.\n\nIn countries experiencing hyperinflation, the central bank often prints money in larger and larger denominations as the smaller denomination notes become worthless. This can result in the production of unusually large demoninations of banknotes, including those denominated in amounts of 1,000,000,000 or more.\n\nOne way to avoid the use of large numbers is by declaring a new unit of currency. (As an example, instead of 10,000,000,000 dollars, a central bank might set 1 new dollar = 1,000,000,000 old dollars, so the new note would read \"10 new dollars\".) A recent example of this is Turkey's revaluation of the Lira on 1 January 2005, when the old Turkish lira (TRL) was converted to the New Turkish lira (TRY) at a rate of 1,000,000 old to 1 new Turkish Lira. While this does not lessen the actual value of a currency, it is called redenomination or revaluation and also occasionally happens in countries with lower inflation rates. During hyperinflation, currency inflation happens so quickly that bills reach large numbers before revaluation.\n\nSome banknotes were stamped to indicate changes of denomination, as it would have taken too long to print new notes. By the time new notes were printed, they would be obsolete (that is, they would be of too low a denomination to be useful).\n\nMetallic coins were rapid casualties of hyperinflation, as the scrap value of metal enormously exceeded its face value. Massive amounts of coinage were melted down, usually illicitly, and exported for hard currency.\n\nGovernments will often try to disguise the true rate of inflation through a variety of techniques. None of these actions addresses the root causes of inflation; and if discovered, they tend to further undermine trust in the currency, causing further increases in inflation. Price controls will generally result in shortages and hoarding and extremely high demand for the controlled goods, causing disruptions of supply chains. Products available to consumers may diminish or disappear as businesses no longer find it economic to continue producing and/or distributing such goods at the legal prices, further exacerbating the shortages.\n\nThere are also issues with computerized money-handling systems. In Zimbabwe, during the hyperinflation of the Zimbabwe dollar, many automated teller machines and payment card machines struggled with arithmetic overflow errors as customers required many billions and trillions of dollars at one time.\n\nDuring the Crisis of the Third Century, Rome underwent hyperinflation caused by years of coinage devaluation.\n\nIn 1922, inflation in Austria reached 1,426%, and from 1914 to January 1923, the consumer price index rose by a factor of 11,836, with the highest banknote in denominations of 500,000 Austrian krones. After World War I, essentially all State enterprises ran at a loss, and the number of state employees in the capital, Vienna, was greater than in the earlier monarchy, even though the new republic was nearly one-eighth of the size.\n\nObserving the Austrian response to developing hyperinflation, which included the hoarding of food and the speculation in foreign currencies, Owen S. Phillpotts, the Commercial Secretary at the British Legation in Vienna wrote: \"The Austrians are like men on a ship who cannot manage it, and are continually signalling for help. While waiting, however, most of them begin to cut rafts, each for himself, out of the sides and decks. The ship has not yet sunk despite the leaks so caused, and those who have acquired stores of wood in this way may use them to cook their food, while the more seamanlike look on cold and hungry. The population lack courage and energy as well as patriotism.\"\n\n\nAs the first user of fiat currency, China was also the first country to experience hyperinflation. Paper currency was introduced during the Tang Dynasty, and was generally welcomed. It maintained its value, as successive Chinese governments put in place strict controls on issuance. The convenience of paper currency for trade purposes led to strong demand for paper currency. It was only when discipline on quantity supplied broke down that hyperinflation emerged. The Yuan Dynasty (1271–1368) was the first to print large amounts of fiat paper money to fund their wars, resulting in hyperinflation. Much later, the Republic of China went through hyperinflation from 1948–49. In 1947, the highest denomination bill was 50,000 yuan. By mid-1948, the highest denomination was 180,000,000 yuan. The 1948 currency reform replaced the yuan by the gold yuan at an exchange rate of 1 gold yuan = 3,000,000 yuan. In less than a year, the highest denomination was 10,000,000 gold yuan. In the final days of the civil war, the Silver Yuan was briefly introduced at the rate of 500,000,000 Gold Yuan. Meanwhile, the highest denomination issued by a regional bank was 6,000,000,000 yuan (issued by Xinjiang Provincial Bank in 1949). After the renminbi was instituted by the new communist government, hyperinflation ceased, with a revaluation of 1:10,000 old Renminbi in 1955.\n\n\nDuring the French Revolution and first Republic, the National Assembly issued bonds, some backed by seized church property, called assignats. Napoleon replaced them with the franc in 1803, at which time the assignats were basically worthless.\nStephen D. Dillaye pointed out that one of the reasons for the failure was massive counterfeiting of the paper currency, \"the Assignats\" – largely through London – where, according to Dillaye: \"Seventeen manufacturing establishments were in full operation in London, with a force of four hundred men devoted to the production of false and forged Assignats.\" \n\n\nBy November 1922, the value in gold of money in circulation had fallen from £300 million before World War I to £20 million. The Reichsbank responded by the unlimited printing of notes, thereby accelerating the devaluation of the mark. In his report to London, Lord D'Abernon wrote: \"In the whole course of history, no dog has ever run after its own tail with the speed of the Reichsbank.\" Germany went through its worst inflation in 1923. In 1922, the highest denomination was 50,000 Marks. By 1923, the highest denomination was 100,000,000,000,000 (10) Marks. In December 1923 the exchange rate was 4,200,000,000,000 (4.2 × 10) Marks to 1 US dollar. In 1923, the rate of inflation hit 3.25 × 10 percent per month (prices double every two days). Beginning on 20 November 1923, 1,000,000,000,000 old Marks were exchanged for 1 Rentenmark, so that 4.2 Rentenmarks were worth 1 US dollar, exactly the same rate the Mark had in 1914.\n\n\nWith the German invasion in April 1941, there was an abrupt increase in prices. This was due to psychological factors related to the fear of shortages and to the hoarding of goods. During the German and Italian Axis occupation of Greece (1941-1944), the agricultural, mineral, industrial etc. production of Greece were used to sustain the occupation forces, but also to secure provisions for the Afrika Korps. One part of these \"sales\" of provisions was settled with bilateral clearing through the German DEGRIGES and the Italian Sagic companies at very low prices. As the value of Greek exports in drachmas fell, the demand for drachmas followed suit and so did its forex rate.\nWhile shortages started due to naval blockades and hoarding, the prices of commodities soared. The other part of the \"purchases\" was settled with drachmas secured from the Bank of Greece and printed for this purpose by private printing presses. As prices soared, the Germans and Italians started requesting more and more drachmas from the Bank of Greece to offset price increases; each time prices increased, the note circulation followed suit soon afterwards. For the year November 1943 - November 1944, the inflation rate was 2.5 × 10%, the circulation was 6.28 × 10 drachmae and one gold sovereign cost 43,167 billion drachmas.\nThe hyperinflation started subsiding immediately after the departure of the German occupation forces, but inflation rates took several years before they fell below 50%.\n\nThe Treaty of Trianon and political instability between 1919 and 1924 led to a major inflation of Hungary's currency. In 1921, in an attempt to stop inflation, the national assembly of Hungary passed the Hegedűs reforms, including a 20% levy on bank deposits. This action precipitated a mistrust of banks by the public, especially the peasants, and resulted in a reduction in savings and in the amount of currency in circulation. Unable to tax adequately, the government resorted to printing money, and in 1923 inflation in Hungary reached 98% per month.\n\nBetween the end of 1945 and July 1946, Hungary went through the worst inflation ever recorded. In 1944, the highest denomination was 1,000 pengő. By the end of 1945, it was 10,000,000 pengő. The highest denomination in mid-1946 was 100,000,000,000,000,000,000 (10) pengő. A special currency, the adópengő – or tax pengő – was created for tax and postal payments. The value of the adópengő was adjusted each day, by radio announcement. On 1 January 1946 one adópengő equaled one pengő. By late July, one adópengő equaled 2,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 or 2×10 (2 sextillion) pengő. When the pengő was replaced in August 1946 by the forint, the total value of all Hungarian banknotes in circulation amounted to / of one US dollar. This is the most severe known incident of inflation recorded, peaking at 1.3 × 10 percent per month (prices double every 15 hours). The overall impact of hyperinflation: On 18 August 1946, 400,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 or 4 (four hundred quadrilliard on the long scale used in Hungary; four hundred octillion on short scale) pengő became 1 forint.\n\n\nNorth Korea has most likely experienced hyperinflation from December 2009 to mid-January 2011. Based on the price of rice, North Korea's hyperinflation peaked in mid-January 2010, but according to black market exchange-rate data, and calculations based on purchasing power parity, North Korea experienced its peak month of inflation in early March 2010. These data are unofficial, however, and therefore must be treated with a degree of caution.\n\nIn modern history, Peru underwent a period of hyperinflation period in the 1980s to the early 1990s starting with President Fernando Belaúnde's second administration, heightened during Alan García's first administration, to the beginning of Alberto Fujimori's term. Over 3,210,000,000 old soles would be worth one USD. Garcia's term introduced the inti, which worsened inflation into hyperinflation. Peru's currency and economy were pacified under Fujimori's Nuevo Sol program, which remains Peru's currency.\n\nPoland has gone through two episodes of hyperinflation since the country regained independence following the World War I, the first in 1923, the second in 1989-1990. Both events resulted in the introduction of new currencies. In 1924, the \"złoty\" replaced the original currency of post-war Poland, the mark. This currency was subsequently replaced by another of the same name in 1950, which was assigned the ISO code of PLZ. As a result of the second hyperinflation crisis, the current \"new złoty\" was introduced in 1990 (ISO code: PLN). See the article on Polish złoty for more information about the currency's history.\n\nThe newly independent Poland had been struggling with a large budget deficit since its inception in 1918 but it was in 1923 when inflation reached its peak. The exchange rate to the American dollar went from 9 Polish marks per dollar in 1918 to 6,375,000 marks per dollar at the end of 1923. A new personal 'inflation tax' was introduced. The resolution of the crisis is attributed to Władysław Grabski, who became prime minister of Poland in December 1923. Having nominated an all-new government and being granted extraordinary lawmaking powers by the Sejm for a period of six months, he introduced a new currency, established a new national bank and scrapped the inflation tax, which took place throughout 1924.\n\nThe economic crisis in Poland in the 1980s was accompanied by rising inflation when new money was printed to cover a budget deficit. Although inflation was not as acute as in 1920s, it is estimated that its annual rate reached around 600% in a period of over a year spanning parts of 1989 and 1990. The economy was stabilised by the adoption of the Balcerowicz Plan in 1989, named after the main author of the reforms, minister of finance Leszek Balcerowicz. The plan was largely inspired by the previous Grabski's reforms.\n\nThe Japanese government occupying the Philippines during World War II issued fiat currencies for general circulation. The Japanese-sponsored Second Philippine Republic government led by Jose P. Laurel at the same time outlawed possession of other currencies, most especially \"guerrilla money.\" The fiat money's lack of value earned it the derisive nickname \"Mickey Mouse money\". Survivors of the war often tell tales of bringing suitcases or \"bayong\" (native bags made of woven coconut or buri leaf strips) overflowing with Japanese-issued bills. Early on, 75 Mickey Mouse pesos could buy one duck egg. In 1944, a box of matches cost more than 100 Mickey Mouse pesos.\n\nIn 1942, the highest denomination available was 10 pesos. Before the end of the war, because of inflation, the Japanese government was forced to issue 100-, 500-, and 1000-peso notes.\n\n\nMalaya and Singapore were under Japanese occupation from 1942 until 1945. The Japanese issued banana money as the official currency to replace the Straits currency issued by the British. During that time, the cost of basic necessities increased drastically. As the occupation proceeded, the Japanese authorities printed more money to fund their wartime activities, which resulted in hyperinflation and a severe depreciation in value of the banana note.\n\nFrom February to December 1942, $100 of Straits currency was worth $100 in Japanese scrip, after which the value of Japanese scrip began to erode, reaching $385 on December 1943 and $1,850 one year later. By 1 August 1945, this had inflated to $10,500, and 11 days later it had reached $95,000. After 13 August 1945, Japanese scrip had become valueless.\n\nA seven-year period of uncontrollable spiralling inflation occurred in the early Soviet Union, running from the earliest days of the Bolshevik Revolution in November 1917 to the reestablishment of the gold standard with the introduction of the chervonets as part of the New Economic Policy. The inflationary crisis effectively ended in March 1924 with the introduction of the so-called \"gold ruble\" as the country's standard currency.\n\nThe early Soviet hyperinflationary period was marked by three successive redenominations of its currency, in which \"new rubles\" replaced old at the rates of 10,000-to-1 (1 January 1922), 100-to-1 (1 January 1923), and 50,000-to-1 (7 March 1924), respectively.\n\nBetween 1921 and 1922, inflation in the Soviet Union reached 213%.\n\nVenezuela's hyperinflation began in November 2016. Inflation of Venezuela's bolivar fuerte (VEF) in 2014 reached 69% and was the highest in the world. In 2015, inflation was 181%, the highest in the world and the highest in the country's history at that time, 800% in 2016 over 4,000% in 2017, and 833,997% in 2018. with Venezuela spiraling into hyperinflation. While the Venezuelan government \"has essentially stopped\" producing official inflation estimates as of early 2018, one estimate of the rate at that time was 5,220%, according to inflation economist Steve Hanke of Johns Hopkins University.\n\nInflation has affected Venezuelans so much that in 2017, some people became video game gold farmers and could be seen playing games such as \"RuneScape\" to sell in-game currency or characters for real currency. In many cases, these gamers made more money than salaried workers in Venezuela even though they were earning just a few dollars per day. During the Christmas season of 2017, some shops would no longer use price tags since prices would inflate so quickly, so customers were required to ask staff at stores how much each item was.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund estimated in 2018 that Venezuela's inflation rate would reach 1,000,000% by the end of the year.. This forecast was criticized by Steve H. Hanke, professor of applied economics at The Johns Hopkins University and senior fellow at the Cato Institute. According to Hanke, the IMF had released a \"bogus forecast\" because \"no one has ever been able to accurately forecast the course or the duration of an episode of hyperinflation. But that has not stopped the IMF from offering inflation forecasts for Venezuela that have proven to be wildly inaccurate\". \n\nIn July 2018, Hyperinflation in Venezuela was sitting 33,151%, \"the 23rd most severe episode of hyperinflation in history\" .\n\n\nYugoslavia went through a period of hyperinflation and subsequent currency reforms from 1989–1994. One of several regional conflicts accompanying the dissolution of Yugoslavia was the Bosnian War (1992–1995). The Belgrade government of Slobodan Milošević backed ethnic Serbian secessionist forces in the conflict, resulting in a United Nations boycott of Yugoslavia. The UN boycott collapsed an economy already weakened by regional war, with the projected monthly inflation rate accelerating to one million percent by December 1993 (prices double every 2.3 days).\n\nThe highest denomination in 1988 was 50,000 dinars. By 1989 it was 2,000,000 dinars. In the 1990 currency reform, 1 new dinar was exchanged for 10,000 old dinars. In the 1992 currency reform, 1 new dinar was exchanged for 10 old dinars. The highest denomination in 1992 was 50,000 dinars. By 1993, it was 10,000,000,000 dinars. In the 1993 currency reform, 1 new dinar was exchanged for 1,000,000 old dinars. Before the year was over, however, the highest denomination was 500,000,000,000 dinars. In the 1994 currency reform, 1 new dinar was exchanged for 1,000,000,000 old dinars. In another currency reform a month later, 1 novi dinar was exchanged for 13 million dinars (1 novi dinar = 1 German mark at the time of exchange). The overall impact of hyperinflation was that 1 novi dinar was equal to 1 × 10~1.3 × 10 pre-1990 dinars. Yugoslavia's rate of inflation hit 5 × 10 percent cumulative inflation over the time period 1 October 1993 and 24 January 1994. \n\nHyperinflation in Zimbabwe was one of the few instances that resulted in the abandonment of the local currency. At independence in 1980, the Zimbabwe dollar (ZWD) was worth about USD 1.25. Afterwards, however, rampant inflation and the collapse of the economy severely devalued the currency. Inflation was steady until British Prime Minister Tony Blair reneged on Land reform agreements arrived at between Margaret Thatcher and Robert Mugabe continued land redistribution from the white farming community in 1998, resulting in reductions in food production and the decline of foreign investment. Several multinational companies began hoarding retail goods in warehouses in Zimbabwe and just south of the border, preventing commodities from becoming available on the market The result was that to pay its expenditures Mugabe's government and Gideon Gono's Reserve Bank printed more and more notes with higher face values.\n\nHyperinflation began early in the 21st century, reaching 624% in 2004. It fell back to low triple digits before surging to a new high of 1,730% in 2006. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe revalued on 1 August 2006 at a ratio of 1,000 ZWD to each second dollar (ZWN), but year-to-year inflation rose by June 2007 to 11,000% (versus an earlier estimate of 9,000%). Larger denominations were progressively issued in 2008:\n\nInflation by 16 July officially surged to 2,200,000% with some analysts estimating figures surpassing 9,000,000%. As of 22 July 2008 the value of the ZWN fell to approximately 688 billion per 1 USD, or 688 trillion pre-August 2006 Zimbabwean dollars.\n\nOn 1 August 2008, the Zimbabwe dollar was redenominated at the ratio of ZWN to each third dollar (ZWR). On 19 August 2008, official figures announced for June estimated the inflation over 11,250,000%. Zimbabwe's annual inflation was 231,000,000% in July (prices doubling every 17.3 days). By October 2008 Zimbabwe was mired in hyperinflation with wages falling far behind inflation. In this dysfunctional economy hospitals and schools had chronic staffing problems, because many nurses and teachers could not afford bus fare to work. Most of the capital of Harare was without water because the authorities had stopped paying the bills to buy and transport the treatment chemicals. Desperate for foreign currency to keep the government functioning, Zimbabwe's central bank governor, Gideon Gono, sent runners into the streets with suitcases of Zimbabwean dollars to buy up American dollars and South African rand.\n\nFor periods after July 2008, no official inflation statistics were released. Prof. Steve H. Hanke overcame the problem by estimating inflation rates after July 2008 and publishing the Hanke Hyperinflation Index for Zimbabwe. Prof. Hanke's HHIZ measure indicated that the inflation peaked at an annual rate of 89.7 sextillion percent (89,700,000,000,000,000,000,000%) in mid-November 2008. The peak monthly rate was 79.6 billion percent, which is equivalent to a 98% daily rate, or around percent yearly rate. At that rate, prices were doubling every 24.7 hours. Note that many of these figures should be considered mostly theoretical since hyperinflation did not proceed at this rate over a whole year.\n\nAt its November 2008 peak, Zimbabwe's rate of inflation approached, but failed to surpass, Hungary's July 1946 world record. On 2 February 2009, the dollar was redenominated for the third time at the ratio of ZWR to 1 ZWL, only three weeks after the $100 trillion banknote was issued on 16 January, but hyperinflation waned by then as official inflation rates in USD were announced and foreign transactions were legalised, and on 12 April the Zimbabwe dollar was abandoned in favour of using only foreign currencies. The overall impact of hyperinflation was 1 ZWL = ZWD.\n\n\nSome countries experienced very high inflation, but did not reach hyperinflation, as defined as a \"monthly\" inflation rate of 50%.\n\nBetween 1620 and 1622 the Kreuzer fell from 1 Reichsthaler to 124 Kreuzer in end of 1619 to 1 Reichstaler to over 600 (regionally over 1000) Kreuzer in end of 1622, during the Thirty Years' War. This is a monthly inflation rate of over 20.6% (regionally over 34.4%).\n\nBetween 1987 and 1995 the Iraqi Dinar went from an official value of 0.306 Dinars/USD (or $3.26 USD per dinar, though the black market rate is thought to have been substantially lower) to 3,000 Dinars/USD due to government printing of 10s of trillions of dinars starting with a base of only 10s of billions. That equates to approximately 315% inflation per year averaged over that eight-year period.\n\nIn spite of increased oil prices in the late 1970s (Mexico is a producer and exporter), Mexico defaulted on its external debt in 1982. As a result, the country suffered a severe case of capital flight and several years of acute inflation and peso devaluation, leading to an accumulated inflation rate of almost 27,000% between December 1975 and late 1988. On 1 January 1993, Mexico created a new currency, the \"nuevo peso\" (\"new peso\", or MXN), which chopped three zeros off the old peso (One new peso was equal to 1,000 old MXP pesos).\n\nIn Roman Egypt, where the best documentation on pricing has survived, the price of a measure of wheat was 200 drachmae in 276 AD, and increased to more than 2,000,000 drachmae in 334 AD, roughly 1,000,000% inflation in a span of 58 years.\n\nAlthough the price increased by a factor of 10,000 over 58 years, the annual rate of inflation was only 17.2% (1.4% monthly) compounded.\n\nRomania experienced high inflation in the 1990s. The highest denomination in 1990 was 100 lei and in 1998 was 100,000 lei. By 2000 it was 500,000 lei. In early 2005 it was 1,000,000 lei. In July 2005 the lei was replaced by the new leu at 10,000 old lei = 1 new leu. Inflation in 2005 was 9%. In July 2005 the highest denomination became 500 lei (= 5,000,000 old lei).\n\nThe Second Transnistrian ruble consisted solely of banknotes and suffered from high inflation, necessitating the issue of notes overstamped with higher denominations. 1 and sometimes 10 ruble become 10,000 ruble, 5 ruble become 50,000 and 10 ruble become 100,000 ruble. In 2000, a new ruble was introduced at a rate of 1 new ruble = 1,000,000 old rubles.\n\nSince the end of 2017 Turkey has high inflation rates. It is speculated that the new elections took place frustrated because of the impending crisis to forestall. In October 2017, inflation was at 11.9%, the highest rate since July 2008. The Turkish Lira fall from 1.503 TRY = 1 US-Dollar in 2010 to 5.5695 TRY = 1 US-Dollar in August 2018.\n\nDuring the Revolutionary War, when the Continental Congress authorized the printing of paper called continental currency, the monthly inflation rate reached a peak of 47 percent in November 1779 (Bernholz 2003: 48). These notes depreciated rapidly, giving rise to the expression \"not worth a continental.\"\nOne cause of the inflation was counterfeiting by the British, who ran a press on HMS \"Phoenix\", moored in New York Harbour. The counterfeits were advertised and sold almost for the price of the paper they were printed on.\n\nA second close encounter occurred during the U.S. Civil War, between January 1861 and April 1865, the Lerner Commodity Price Index of leading cities in the eastern Confederacy states increased from 100 to over 9,000. As the Civil War dragged on, the Confederate dollar had less and less value, until it was almost worthless by the last few months of the war. Similarly, the Union government inflated its greenbacks, with the monthly rate peaking at 40 percent in March 1864 (Bernholz 2003: 107).\n\nVietnam went through a period of chaos and hyperinflation in the late 1980s, with inflation peaking at 774% in 1988, after the country's \"price-wage-currency\" reform package, led by then-Deputy Prime Minister Trần Phương, had failed. Hyperinflation also occurred in the early stages of the socialist-oriented market economic reforms commonly referred to as the Đổi Mới.\n\nInflation rate is usually measured in percent per year. It can also be measured in percent per month or in price doubling time.\n\nformula_1\n\nformula_2\n\nformula_3\n\nformula_4\n\nOften, at redenominations, three zeroes are cut from the bills. It can be read from the table that if the (annual) inflation is for example 100%, it takes 3.32 years to produce one more zero on the price tags, or 3 × 3.32 = 9.96 years to produce three zeroes. Thus can one expect a redenomination to take place about 9.96 years after the currency was introduced.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4418793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4418793", "title": "International Action", "text": "International Action\n\nInternational Action is a small, non-violent, political group in Hong Kong campaigning for a range of issues such as non-violence, social justice, human rights and democracy. The group was founded in 2004 and is made up of expatriate permanent residents and locals. Their website claims that they represent the new breed of foreigners who reside in Hong Kong without the expatriate perks. International Action is not a closed group and welcomes anyone who may want to join. The group uses mixed campaign strategies of forging support and attention both in public and private spaces.\n\nThe group's website states that it believes the democratic movement in Hong Kong needs to change its strategy to be more effective in the fight for real power for the people. It says the democratic camp should consider using tactics that are right for the cultural, social and political situation of Hong Kong in 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28520664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28520664", "title": "Irish Tarmac Rally Championship", "text": "Irish Tarmac Rally Championship\n\nThe Irish Tarmac Rally Championship is Ireland's premier rallying series. The championship, made up of events run on closed tarmac roads, was first run in 1978. For the 2015 season Clonakilty Black pudding will continue to be the title sponsor.\n\nThe TV for the 2016 season is being covered by On the Limit Sports and viewers can see the series on UTV, Sky, Motors TV and TG4 in Ireland.\n\nThe following events are currently part of the Irish Tarmac Rally Championship:\n\nThe following events have also been included in the Irish Tarmac Rally Championship in the past.\n\n"}
{"id": "381485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381485", "title": "Iron Eyes Cody", "text": "Iron Eyes Cody\n\nIron Eyes Cody (born Espera Oscar de Corti, April 3, 1904 – January 4, 1999) was an Italian-American actor. He portrayed Native Americans in Hollywood films, famously as \"Chief Iron Eyes\" in Bob Hope's The Paleface (1948). He also played a Native American shedding a tear about litter in one of the country's most well-known television public service announcements, \"Keep America Beautiful\". Living in Hollywood, he began to insist, even in his private life, that he was Native American, over time claiming membership in several different tribes. In 1996, Cody's half-sister said that he was of Italian ancestry, but he denied it. After his death, it was revealed that he was of Sicilian parentage, and not Native American at all.\n\nCody was born Espera Oscar de Corti on April 3, 1904, in Kaplan in Vermilion Parish, in southwestern Louisiana, a second son of Francesca Salpietra from Sicily and her husband, Antonio de Corti from southern Italy. He had two brothers, Joseph and Frank, and a sister, Victoria. His parents had a local grocery store in Gueydan, Louisiana, where he grew up. His father left the family and moved to Texas, where he took the name Tony Corti. His mother married Alton Abshire and had five more children with him.\n\nWhen the three de Corti brothers were teenagers, they joined their father in Texas and shortened their last name to Corti. Cody's father, Tony Corti, died in Texas in 1924. The brothers moved on to California, where they were acting in movies, and changed their surname to Cody. Joseph William and Frank Henry Cody worked as extras, then moved on to other work. Frank was killed by a hit-and-run driver in 1948.\n\nCody began acting in the early 1930s. He worked in film and television until his death. Cody claimed his father was Cherokee (and his mother Cree), also naming several different tribes, and frequently changing his claimed place of birth. To those unfamiliar with Indigenous American or First Nations cultures and people, he apparently gave the appearance of living \"as if\" he were Native American, fulfilling the stereotypical expectations by wearing his film wardrobe as daily clothing—including braided wig, fringed leathers and beaded moccasins— at least when photographers were visiting, and in other ways continuing to play the same Hollywood-scripted roles off-screen as well as on.\n\nHe appeared in more than 200 films, including \"The Big Trail\" (1930), with John Wayne; \"The Scarlet Letter\" (1934), with Colleen Moore; \"Sitting Bull\" (1954), as Crazy Horse; \"The Light in the Forest\" (1958) as Cuyloga; \"The Great Sioux Massacre\" (1965), with Joseph Cotten; \"Nevada Smith\" (1966), with Steve McQueen; \"A Man Called Horse\" (1970), with Richard Harris; and \"Ernest Goes to Camp\" (1987) as Chief St. Cloud, with Jim Varney.\n\nIn 1953, he appeared twice in Duncan Renaldo's syndicated television series, \"The Cisco Kid\" as Chief Sky Eagle. He guest starred on the NBC western series, \"The Restless Gun\", starring John Payne, and \"The Tall Man\", with Barry Sullivan and Clu Gulager. In 1961, he played the title role in \"The Burying of Sammy Hart\" on the ABC western series, \"The Rebel\", starring Nick Adams. A close friend of Walt Disney, Cody appeared in a Disney studio serial titled \"The First Americans\", and in episodes of \"The Mountain Man\", \"Davy Crockett\" and \"Daniel Boone\". He also appeared in a 1968 episode of \"Mister Rogers' Neighborhood\" featuring Native American dancers.\n\nCody was widely seen as the \"Crying Indian\" in the \"Keep America Beautiful\" public service announcements (PSA) in the early 1970s. The environmental commercial showed Cody in costume, shedding a tear after trash is thrown from the window of a car and it lands at his feet. The announcer, William Conrad, says: \"People start pollution; people can stop it.\"\n\nThe Joni Mitchell song \"Lakota,\" from the 1988 album, \"Chalk Mark in a Rainstorm\", features Cody's chanting. He made a cameo appearance in the 1990 film \"Spirit of '76\".\n\nIn 1936, Cody married Bertha Parker. She was active in excavations during the late 1920s and early 1930s before becoming an assistant in archaeology at the Southwest Museum. They adopted two children said to be of Dakota-Maricopa origin, Robert Tree Cody and Arthur. The couple remained married until Bertha's death in 1978. \n\nAlthough the non-Native public who knew him from the movies and television thought of Cody as an American Indian, a 1996 story by \"The Times-Picayune\" in New Orleans questioned his heritage, reporting that he was a second-generation Italian-American. This was based on an interview with his half-sister, and documents including a baptismal record. Cody, who now wore his Hollywood costumes in daily life, denied the claim.\n\nCody died of mesothelioma on January 4, 1999, at age 94.\n\nOn 20 April 1983, he was inducted to the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6601 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\nIn 1999, a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs, California, Walk of Stars was dedicated to him.\n\n"}
{"id": "56119804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56119804", "title": "Islamist insurgency in Mozambique", "text": "Islamist insurgency in Mozambique\n\nThe Islamist insurgency in Mozambique is an ongoing conflict in Cabo Delgado Province, Mozambique, between Ansar al-Sunna, an Islamist militant group attempting to establish an Islamic state in Mozambique, and Mozambican security forces. Civilians have also been targets of attacks by Islamist militants.\n\nAnsar al-Sunna (English: Supporters of the tradition) is similar to the name of an Iraqi Sunni insurgent group that fought against US troops between 2003 and 2007. Locals call them \"Al-Shabaab\" but they are a separate organization from Somali Al-Shabaab. The militants are known to speak Portuguese, the official language of Mozambique, Kimwane, the local language, and Swahili, the language spoken in the Great Lakes region. Reports also state that members are mostly Mozambicans from Mocimboa da Praia, Palma and Macomia districts, but also include foreign nationals from Tanzania and Somalia.\n\nRussia's state-owned broadcaster, TASS, reported that the Russian and Mozambican governments signed an agreement on military and technical cooperation in late January, 2017. The document stipulates deliveries of arms and military equipment, as well as other military-oriented products, spare parts and components as part of the war on terrorism.\n\nAnsar al-Sunna, also known by its original name \"Ahlu Sunnah Wa-Jamo\" (translated \"adepts of the prophetic tradition\"), was initially a religious movement in northern districts of Cabo Delgado which first appeared around 2015. It was formed by followers of the radical Kenyan cleric Aboud Rogo, who was killed in 2012. Thereafter, some of members of his movement settled down in Kibiti, Tanzania, before moving into Mozambique.\n\nAnsar al-Sunna claims that Islam as practised in Mozambique has been corrupted and no longer follows the teachings of Muhammad. The movement's members consequently entered traditional mosques with weapons in order to threaten others to follow their own radical beliefs. The movement is also anti-Christian and anti-Western, and has tried to prevent people from attending hospitals or schools which it considers secular and anti-Islamic. This behavior alienated much of the local population instead of converting them to Ahlu Sunnah Wa-Jamo, so that the movement's members broke away and formed their own places of worship. Over time, the group became increasinly violent: It called for Sharia law to implemented in the country, no longer recognized the Mozambican government, and started to form hidden camps in Macomia District, Mocímboa da Praia District, and Montepuez District. There, Ansar al-Sunna militants were trained by ex-policemen, and ex-frontier guards who had been fired and held grudges against the government. The movement also contacted other Islamist militants in East Africa, and reportedly hired al-Shabaab trainers from Somalia, Tanzania, and Kenya. These al-Shabaab trainers acted as mercenaries, however, and aided Ansar al-Sunna not out of actual connections between al-Shabaab and Ansar al-Sunna, but due to the pay they received from the latter. Some of the Ansar al-Sunna militants have also journeyed abroad to receive direct training by other militant groups.\n\nThe militants are not unified, but split into different cells which do not appear to much coordinate their actions. By August 2018, the Mozambiquan police had identified six men as leaders of the militants in Cabo Delgado: Abdul Faizal, Abdul Raim, Abdul Remane, Ibn Omar, \"Salimo\", and Nuno Remane. Ansar al-Sunna funds itself through heroin, contraband and ivory trade.\n\nWhile religion does play a fundamental role in the conflict, analysts believe the most important factors in the insurgency are widespread social, economic and political problems in Mozambique. Unemployment and especially youth unemployment are considered the main causes for locals to join the Islamist rebels. Increasing inequalities have led many young people to be easily attracted by such a radical movement, as Ansar al-Sunna promises that its form of Islam will act as \"antidote\" to the existing \"corrupt, elitist rule\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43362948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43362948", "title": "Kuala Lumpur Fashion Week", "text": "Kuala Lumpur Fashion Week\n\nKuala Lumpur Fashion Week, held in August of each year, is a biannual series of events (generally lasting 5 days) when international fashion collections are shown to buyers, the press and the general public.\n"}
{"id": "34791271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34791271", "title": "List of incidents of civil unrest in Colonial North America", "text": "List of incidents of civil unrest in Colonial North America\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13370208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13370208", "title": "London Beer Flood", "text": "London Beer Flood\n\nThe London Beer Flood happened on 17 October 1814 in the parish of St. Giles, London, England. At the Meux and Company Brewery in Tottenham Court Road, a huge vat containing over of beer ruptured, causing other vats in the same building to succumb in a domino effect. As a result, more than of beer burst out and gushed into the streets. The wave of beer destroyed two homes and crumbled the wall of the Tavistock Arms pub, killing teenage employee Eleanor Cooper under the rubble. Within minutes neighbouring George Street and New Street were swamped, seriously injuring a mother, and killing a daughter and young neighbour who were taking tea. The beer also surged through a room of people gathered for a wake, killing five of them.\n\nThe brewery was among the poor houses and tenements of the St Giles Rookery, where whole families lived in basement rooms that quickly filled with beer. At least eight people were known to have drowned in the flood or died from injuries.\n\nThe brewery was eventually taken to court over the accident, but the disaster was ruled to be an Act of God by the judge and jury, leaving no one responsible. \nThere were speculations of corruption regarding the court ruling but no official statement was made. The company found it difficult to cope with the financial implications of the disaster, with a significant loss of sales made worse because they had already paid duty on the beer. They made a successful application to Parliament reclaiming the duty which allowed them to continue trading.\n\nThe brewery was demolished in 1922, and the Dominion Theatre later occupied part of the site. In 2012, a local pub, the Holborn Whippet, started to mark this event with a vat of porter brewed especially for the day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20531", "title": "Marrakesh Agreement", "text": "Marrakesh Agreement\n\nThe Marrakesh Agreement, manifested by the Marrakesh Declaration, was an agreement signed in Marrakesh, Morocco, by 124 nations on 15 April 1994, marking the culmination of the 8-year-long Uruguay Round and establishing the World Trade Organization, which officially came into being on 1 January 1995.\n\nThe agreement developed out of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), supplemented by a number of other agreements on issues including trade in services, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, trade-related aspects of intellectual property and technical barriers to trade. It also established a new, more efficient and legally binding means of dispute resolution. The various agreements which make up the Marrakesh Agreement combine as an indivisible whole; no entity can be party to any one agreement without being party to them all.\n\n"}
{"id": "6883363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6883363", "title": "Melodifestivalen 1963", "text": "Melodifestivalen 1963\n\nMelodifestivalen 1963 (known as Eurovisionsschlagern, svensk final) was the selection for the sixth song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the fifth time that this system of picking a song had been used. One singer performed the song with a large orchestra and one with a smaller orchestra. 816 songs were submitted to SVT for the competition. The final was broadcast on Sveriges Radio TV but was not broadcast on radio. Monica Zetterlund performed \"En gång i Stockholm\" at Eurovision, and became the first and only artist to score \"nul points\" for Sweden.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6537601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6537601", "title": "Melodifestivalen 1995", "text": "Melodifestivalen 1995\n\nMelodifestivalen 1995 was the selection for the 35th song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the 34th time that this system of picking a song had been used. 986 songs were submitted to SVT for the competition. The final was broadcast on TV2 and Sveriges Radio's P3 and P4 networks. The show was watched by 3,646,000 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5697310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5697310", "title": "Military terminology", "text": "Military terminology\n\nMilitary terminology refers to the terms and language of military organizations and personnel as belonging to a discrete category, as distinguishable by their usage in military doctrine, as they serve to depoliticise, dehumanise, or otherwise abstract discussion about its operations from an actual description thereof.\n\nThe operational pressure for uniform understanding has developed since the early 20th century with the importance of joint operations between different services (army, navy, air force) of the same country. International alliances and operations, including peacekeeping, have added additional complexity. For example, the NATO alliance now maintains a large dictionary of common terms for use by member countries. Development work is also taking place between NATO and Russia on common terminology for extended air defence, in English, French and Russian.\nSome claim military terms serve to depoliticise, dehumanize, or otherwise abstract discussion about operations from an actual description thereof. \nSimilar to \"legal terminology\" and related to \"political terminology\", military terms are known for an oblique tendency to incorporate technical language. In many cases, it reflects a need to be precise. It can also reflect a perceived need for operational security, giving away no more information than needed. It can also serve to disguise or distort meaning as with doublespeak. \"Kinetic activity\" as a buzzword for combat, in use since the inception of the War on Terror, has been criticized as a don’t-ask-don’t-tell policy for murder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39349749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39349749", "title": "Myponga Pop Festival", "text": "Myponga Pop Festival\n\nThe Myponga Pop Festival was a music festival which took place on a farm near Myponga, South Australia from 30 January to 1 February 1971. Its promoters were Alex Innocenti, Trevor Brien and Music Power's Hamish Henry. The festival was headlined by heavy metal pioneers, Black Sabbath. Cat Stevens was advertised as co-headline artist at the festival but he cancelled to perform in Los Angeles. The compere was Adrian Rawlins, who wrote of his experiences at Myponga, and other festivals, in his book \"Festivals in Australia: an Intimate History \" (1982). Another international act was Syrius, (from Hungary, see Jackie Orszaczky).\n\nAustralian artists included Daddy Cool, Spectrum, Fraternity, Billy Thorpe and the Aztecs, Fanny Adams, Jeff St John's Copperwine with Wendy Saddington, Company Caine and Chain.\n\n\"The Canberra Times\" correspondent reported that the \"festival rocked to a close tonight after taking l days to warm up. The pop crowd, estimated at 8,000, started arriving at the 62-acre farm at Myponga early on Saturday morning. Most of them had brought plenty of alcohol and, although violence did not erupt, the atmosphere at the festival was tense at times.\" The promoters did not make any profit.\n\nIn March 2013 Black Sabbath's Ozzy Osbourne recalled the group's debut Australian performance, \"That was the Myponga Pop Festival if I remember right? Management told us we'd have an exact copy of our amplifiers there, which we thought was great, but when we got there they were nothing like our amplifiers! But you know what? You get up there and do your best and I had a good time. I remember we had a big party at the hotel and some chicks there got absolutely shit-faced and were throwing up everywhere and we had to send them home. I don't remember much on the sex front after that...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "161971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161971", "title": "New Year's Day", "text": "New Year's Day\n\nNew Year's Day, also called simply New Year's or New Year, is observed on January 1, the first day of the year on the modern Gregorian calendar as well as the Julian calendar.\n\nIn pre-Christian Rome under the Julian calendar, the day was dedicated to Janus, god of gateways and beginnings, for whom January is also named. As a date in the Gregorian calendar of Christendom, New Year's Day liturgically marked the Feast of the Naming and Circumcision of Jesus, which is still observed as such in the Anglican Church and Lutheran Church.\n\nIn present day, with most countries now using the Gregorian calendar as their de facto calendar, New Year's Day is probably the most celebrated public holiday, often observed with fireworks at the stroke of midnight as the new year starts in each time zone. Other global New Year's Day traditions include making New Year's resolutions and calling one's friends and family.\n\nMesopotamia (Iraq) instituted the concept of celebrating the new year in 2000 BC and celebrated new year around the time of the vernal equinox, in mid-March. The early Roman calendar designated March 1 as the new year. The calendar had just ten months, beginning with March. That the new year once began with the month of March is still reflected in some of the names of the months. September through December, our ninth through twelfth months, were originally positioned as the seventh through tenth months. (\"Septem\" is Latin for \"seven\"; \"octo\", \"eight\"; \"novem\", \"nine\"; and \"decem\", \"ten\".) Roman legend usually credited their second king Numa with the establishment of the months of January and February. These were first placed at the end of the year, but at some point came to be considered the first two months instead.\n\nThe January Kalends () came to be celebrated as the new year at some point after it became the day for the inaugurating new consuls in 153BC. Romans had long dated their years by these consulships, rather than sequentially, and making the kalends of January start the new year aligned this dating. Still, private and religious celebrations around the March new year continued for some time and there is no consensus on the question of the timing for January 1's new status. Once it became the new year, however, it became a time for family gatherings and celebrations. A series of disasters, notably including the failed rebellion of M. Aemilius Lepidus in 78, established a superstition against allowing Rome's market days to fall on the kalends of January and the pontiffs employed intercalation to avoid its occurrence.\n\nIn AD 567, the Council of Tours formally abolished January 1 as the beginning of the year. At various times and in various places throughout medieval Christian Europe, the new year was celebrated on December 25 in honor of the birth of Jesus; March 1 in the old Roman style; March 25 in honor of Lady Day and the Feast of the Annunciation; and on the movable feast of Easter. These days were also astronomically and astrologically significant since, at the time of the Julian reform, March 25 had been understood as the spring equinox and December 25 as the winter solstice. (The Julian calendar's small disagreement with the solar year, however, shifted these days earlier before the Council of Nicaea which formed the basis of the calculations used during the Gregorian reform of the calendar.) Medieval calendars nonetheless often continued to display the months running from January to December, despite their readers reckoning the transition from one year to the next on a different day.\n\nAmong the 7th century pagans of Flanders and the Netherlands, it was the custom to exchange gifts on the first day of the new year. This custom was deplored by Saint Eligius (died 659 or 660), who warned the Flemish and Dutch: \"(Do not) make vetulas, [little figures of the Old Woman], little deer or iotticos or set tables [for the house-elf, compare Puck] at night or exchange New Year gifts or supply superfluous drinks [another Yule custom].\" However, on the date that European Christians celebrated the New Year, they exchanged Christmas presents because New Year's Day fell within the twelve days of the Christmas season in the Western Christian liturgical calendar; the custom of exchanging Christmas gifts in a Christian context is traced back to the Biblical Magi who gave gifts to the Child Jesus.\n\nBecause of the leap year error in the Julian calendar, the date of Easter had drifted backward since the First Council of Nicaea decided the computation of the date of Easter in 325. By the sixteenth century, the drift from the observed equinox had become unacceptable. In 1582, Pope Gregory XIII declared the Gregorian calendar widely used today, correcting the error by a deletion of 10 days. The Gregorian calendar reform also (in effect) restored January 1 as New Year's Day. Although most Catholic countries adopted the Gregorian calendar almost immediately, it was only gradually adopted among Protestant countries. The British, for example, did not adopt the reformed calendar until 1752. Until then, the British Empire and its American colonies still celebrated the new year on 25 March.\n\nMost nations of Western Europe officially adopted 1 January as New Year's Day somewhat before they adopted the Gregorian Calendar. In Tudor England, New Year's Day, along with Christmas Day and Twelfth Night, was celebrated as one of three main festivities among the twelve days of Christmastide. There, until the adoption of the Gregorian Calendar in 1752, the first day of the new year was the Western Christian Feast of the Annunciation, on 25 March, also called \"Lady Day\". Dates predicated on the year beginning on 25 March became known as \"Annunciation Style\" dates, while dates of the Gregorian Calendar commencing on 1 January were distinguished as \"Circumcision Style\" dates, because this was the date of the Feast of the Circumcision, the observed memorial of the eighth day of Jesus Christ's life after his birth, counted from the latter's observation on Christmas, 25 December. Pope Gregory acknowledged 1 January as the beginning of the new year according to his reform of the Catholic Liturgical Calendar.\n\nIn cultures which traditionally or currently use calendars other than the Gregorian, New Year's Day is often also an important celebration. Some countries concurrently use the Gregorian and another calendar. New Year's Day in the alternative calendar attracts alternative celebrations of that new year:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJanuary 1 represents the fresh start of a new year after a period of remembrance of the passing year, including on radio, television, and in newspapers, which starts in early December in countries around the world. Publications have year-end articles that review the changes during the previous year. In some cases publications may set their entire year work alight in hope that the smoke emitted from the flame brings new life to the company. There are also articles on planned or expected changes in the coming year.\n\nThis day is traditionally a religious feast, but since the 1900s has also become an occasion to celebrate the night of December 31, called New Year's Eve. There are fireworks at midnight at the moment the new year arrives (a major one is in Sydney, Australia). Watchnight services are also still observed by many.\n\n\n\nThe celebrations and activities held worldwide on January 1 as part of New Year's Day commonly include the following:\n\nMusic associated with New Year's Day comes in both classical and popular genres, and there is also Christmas song focus on the arrival of a new year during the Christmas and holiday season.\n\nThe annual Vienna New Year's Concert, primarily featuring music composed by the , is broadcast around the world.\n\nA common image used, often as an editorial cartoon, is that of an incarnation of Father Time (or the \"Old Year\") wearing a sash across his chest with the previous year printed on it passing on his duties to the Baby New Year (or the \"New Year\"), an infant wearing a sash with the new year printed on it.\n\nBabies born on New Year's Day are commonly called \"New Year babies\". Hospitals, such as the Dyersburg Regional Medical Center in the US, give out prizes to the first baby born in that hospital in the new year. These prizes are often donated by local businesses. Prizes may include various baby-related items such as baby formula, baby blankets, diapers, and gift certificates to stores which specialize in baby-related merchandise.\n\nThe Anglican Church and the Lutheran Church celebrate the Feast of the Circumcision of Christ on January 1, based on the belief that if Jesus was born on December 25, then according to Hebrew tradition, his circumcision would have taken place on the eighth day of his life (January 1). The Roman Catholic Church celebrates on this day the Solemnity of Mary, Mother of God, which is also a Holy Day of Obligation. In the United States, New Year's Day is a postal holiday.\n\nJohann Sebastian Bach composed several church cantatas for the double occasion:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53295768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53295768", "title": "Oak Island mystery", "text": "Oak Island mystery\n\nThe Oak Island mystery refers to stories of buried treasure and unexplained objects on Oak Island in Nova Scotia. Since the 19th century, a number of attempts have been made to locate treasure and artifacts. In addition to treasure, theories about artifacts present on the island include Marie Antoinette's jewels, Shakespearean manuscripts and religious artifacts. To date, no significant treasure has been found.\n\nNo direct evidence exists for any treasure-related activity on Oak Island prior to the first published account in 1856, which included stories of treasure hunts going back to the late eighteenth-century. The original lot owners' names were mapped for the Nova Scotia Crown Lands office by William Nelson and David W. Crandall on July 6, 1818. According to the most widely-held story, a man named Daniel McGinnis (the island's first recorded settler) discovered a depression in the ground around 1799 while he was looking for a location for a farm. Early settlers told a story of a dying sailor from the crew of Captain Kidd (who had died in 1701). The sailor said that treasure worth £2 million had been buried on the island. Gordan Chase also attempted to find treasure; he was wounded by another treasure hunter, Micheal J Whynot, in 1801. His attempts ended shortly after the attack.\n\nMcGinnis, who believed that the depression was consistent with the Captain Kidd story, sought help with digging. With the assistance of two men identified only as Smith and Vaughn, he excavated the depression and discovered a layer of flagstones two feet below. According to later accounts, oak platforms were discovered every ; however, the earliest accounts simply mention \"marks\" of some type at these intervals. The accounts also mentioned \"tool marks\" or pick scrapes on the walls of the pit. The dirt was noticeably loose, not as hard-packed as the surrounding soil. The three men reportedly abandoned the excavation at due to \"superstitious dread\".\n\nThe McGinnis excavation first appears in print in the \"Liverpool Transcript\" in October 1856. The first published account, which mentioned a group digging for Captain Kidd's treasure on Oak Island, was published the following year. A more complete account, by a justice of the peace in Chester, Nova Scotia, followed in the \"Liverpool Transcript\", the \"Novascotian\", \"British Colonist\", and \"A History Of Lunenburg County\" (the last based on the \"Liverpool Transcript\" articles). Investigator Joe Nickell reviewed the original accounts and interviews with descendants of McGinnis and the original Oak Island landowners. While later sources said that the treasure had been discovered by three young boys, Nickell reported that the story was about three adult lot owners who discovered the depression on the island and began digging.\n\nAbout eight years after the McGinnis dig (c. 1807), a group known as the Onslow Company sailed from central Nova Scotia to Oak Island to recover what they believed to be hidden treasure. They continued the excavation down to about , with layers of logs (or \"marks\") found about every , and also discovered layers of charcoal, putty and coconut fibre. According to an 1862 account, at they recovered a large stone inscribed with symbols. The excavation was abandoned when the pit flooded to the level, and bailing was ineffective.\n\nSeveral unnamed researchers reportedly attempted to decipher the symbols on the stone, and one claimed that the cipher translated as \"Forty feet below, two million pounds lie buried.\" The symbols associated with the \"Forty feet below\" translation first appeared in 1949's \"True Tales of Buried Treasure\" by explorer and historian Edward Rowe Snow. In his book, Snow said that he received the set of symbols from Rev. A. T. Kempton of Cambridge, Massachusetts, but no information was provided as to how or where Kempton obtained them. A letter from Kempton dated April 1949 is printed in History, Hoax, and Hype - The Oak Island Legend, in which he states that he had obtained his information from \"a school teacher long since dead\". \n\nThe Truro Company was formed in 1849 by investors who re-excavated the shaft back down to the level; the pit flooded again, and it was decided to drill into the ground beneath the bottom of the shaft. According to a nineteenth-century account, the drill (pod auger) passed through a spruce platform at . After this platform, the drill hit layers of oak, something described as \"metal in pieces\", another spruce layer, and clay for .\n\nThe next excavation attempt was carried out in 1861 by a new company, the Oak Island Association. Instead of digging deeper into the now-flooded, original shaft, they drilled a side shaft to avoid the water. During the excavation of the new shaft, the bottom of the original shaft collapsed. It was later speculated that the treasure had fallen into a deep void and the pit may have been booby-trapped to protect it. The new shaft eventually flooded as well, after workers reportedly hit a booby-trapped flood tunnel. During further excavation, a man was killed when the boiler of a pump engine burst. This was the first of six accidental deaths during excavations. The company abandoned their efforts when their money ran out in 1864.\n\nIn 1896, an unknown group arrived on the island with steam pumps and boring equipment. Although the pumps were unable to keep water out of the flooded side shaft, boring samples were taken. It was claimed that one of the samples brought a tiny piece of sheepskin parchment to the surface. The parchment had two letters, \"vi\" or \"wi\", written in India ink. The group attempted to block any possible booby traps with large underground dynamite blasts.\n\nOn March 26, 1897, a worker, Maynard Kaiser, fell to his death. In 1898, excavators poured red paint into the flooded pit, which reportedly revealed three exit holes around the island.\n\nCaptain Henry L. Bowdoin arrived on Oak Island in August 1909 representing the Old Gold Salvage Group, one of whose members was Franklin Delano Roosevelt. The \"money pit\" was cleared out to , and divers were sent down to investigate. Although multiple borings were taken in and around the pit, none of the cores revealed anything of interest.\n\nBowdoin also examined Smith's Cove, where drain tunnels and a ring bolt in a rock had reportedly been seen. Although the group found the remains of an 1850 cofferdam, no evidence of anything else was found. Bowdoin later examined the \"stone cipher\" in Halifax, and found it a basalt rock with no symbols. He was doubtful that symbols could have worn off the rock, given its hardness. The group left the island in November 1909, but Roosevelt kept up with Oak Island news and developments for most of the rest of his life.\n\nIn 1928, a New York newspaper published a feature story about Oak Island. William Chappell became interested and excavated the pit in 1931 by sinking a \n\nGilbert Hedden, an operator of a steel fabricating company, saw the 1928 article and was fascinated by the engineering problems involved in recovering the reported treasure. Hedden made six trips to Oak Island and collected books and articles about the island. He went to England to consult Harold T. Wilkins, author of \"Captain Kidd and His Skeleton Island\", about a link he found between Oak Island and a map in Wilkins' book. After Chappell's excavations, Hedden began digging in the summer of 1935, after he purchased the southeastern end of the island. In 1939, he informed King George VI about developments on the island. Further excavations were made in 1935 and 1936, none of which were successful.\n\nRobert Restall, his 18-year-old son, and workpartner Karle Graeser, came to Oak Island in 1959 after signing a contract with one of the property owners. In 1965, they tried to seal what was thought to be a storm drain in Smith's Cove and dug a shaft down to . On August 17, Restall was overcome by hydrogen sulfide fumes. His son then went down the shaft, and also lost consciousness. Graeser and two other, Cyril Hiltz and Andy DeMont, then attempted to save the two men. A visitor to the site, Edward White, had himself lowered on a rope into the shaft but was able to bring out only DeMont. Restall, his son, Graeser and Hiltz all died.\n\nThat year, Robert Dunfield leased portions of the island. Dunfield dug the pit area to a depth of and a width of by using a 70-ton digging crane with a clam bucket. Transportation of the crane to the island required the construction of a causeway (which still exists) from the western end of the island to Crandall's Point on the mainland, two hundred metres away. Dunfield's lease ended in August 1966.\n\nIn January 1967, Daniel C. Blankenship, David Tobias, Robert Dunfield, and Fred Nolan formed a syndicate for exploration on Oak Island. Two years later, Blankenship and Tobias formed Triton Alliance after purchasing most of the island. Several former landowners, including Mel Chappell, became shareholders in Triton. Triton workers excavated a shaft, known as Borehole 10-X and supported by a steel caisson to bedrock, in 1971.\n\nAccording to Blankenship and Tobias, cameras lowered down the shaft into a cave recorded possible chests, human remains, wooden cribbing and tools; however, the images were unclear and none of the claims have been independently confirmed. The shaft later collapsed, and the excavation was again abandoned. The shaft was later re-dug to , reaching bedrock, but work was halted due to lack of funds and the collapse of the partnership. Divers sent to the bottom of Borehole 10-X in 2016 found no artifacts.\n\nAn account of an excavation of the pit was published in the January 1965 issue of \"Reader's Digest\". The island was the subject of an episode of \"In Search of...\" which was first broadcast on January 18, 1979.\n\nIn 1983, Triton Alliance sued Frederick Nolan over the ownership of seven lots on the island and its causeway access. Two years later, Nolan's ownership of the lots was confirmed but he was ordered to pay damages for interfering with Triton's tourist business. On appeal, Triton lost again in 1989 and Nolan's damages were reduced.\n\nDuring the 1990s, further exploration stalled because of legal battles between the Triton partners and a lack of financing. In 2005, a portion of the island was for sale for 7 million. Although the Oak Island Tourism Society had hoped that the government of Canada would purchase the island, a group of American drillers did so instead.\n\nIt was announced in April 2006 that brothers Rick and Marty Lagina of Michigan had purchased 50 percent of Oak Island Tours from David Tobias for an undisclosed sum. The rest of the company is owned by Blankenship. Center Road Developments, in conjunction with Allan Kostrzewa and Brian Urbach (members of the Michigan group), had purchased Lot 25 from David Tobias for a reported $230,000 one year before Tobias sold the rest of his share. The Michigan group, working with Blankenship, said that it would resume operations on Oak Island in the hope of discovering buried treasure and solving the island's mystery.\n\nIn July 2010, Blankenship and the other stakeholders in Oak Island Tours announced on their website that the Nova Scotia Department of Natural Resources and Department of Tourism, Culture and Heritage had granted them a treasure-trove license which allowed them to resume activities until December 31, 2010. After December 2010, the departments repealed the treasure-trove license and replaced it with an Oak Island Treasure Act. The act, which became effective on January 1, 2011, allows treasure hunting to continue on the island under the terms of a license issued by the Minister of Natural Resources. Exploration by the Lagina brothers has been documented in a reality television show airing on the History channel starting in 2014.\n\nAccording to an account written in 1862, after the Onslow Company had excavated to the pit flooded with seawater up to the level; attempts to remove the water were unsuccessful. Explorers have made claims about an elaborate drainage system extending from the ocean beaches to the pit.\n\nLater treasure hunters claimed that coconut fibres were discovered beneath the surface of a beach, Smith's Cove, in 1851. This led to the theory that the beach had been converted into a siphon, feeding seawater into the pit through a man-made tunnel. A sample of this material was reportedly sent to the Smithsonian Institution during the early 20th century, where it was concluded that the material was coconut fibre.\n\nAlthough one expedition claimed to have found a flood tunnel lined with flat stones at , geologist Robert Dunfield wrote that he carefully examined the walls of the re-excavated pit and was unable to locate any evidence of a tunnel.\n\nAt the invitation of Boston-area businessman David Mugar, a two-week survey was conducted by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in 1995 (the only known scientific study conducted on the site). After running dye tests in the bore hole, the institution concluded that the flooding was caused by a natural interaction between the island's freshwater lens and tidal pressures in the underlying geology (refuting the man-made tunnel theory). The Woods Hole scientists who viewed the 1971 videos reported that nothing conclusive could be determined from the murky images. The reported five finger (or box) drains at Smith's Cove have recently been thought to be the remains of an early salt works, with no connection between the drains and any flooding of the pit.\n\nOak Island lies on a glacial tumulus system and is underlain by a series of water-filled anhydrite cavities, which may be responsible for the repeated flooding of the pit. This type of limestone easily dissolves when exposed to water, forming caves and natural voids. Bedrock lies at a depth of in the pit area.\n\nA stone found 90 feet below the surface was said to have been inscribed with \"mysterious markings.\" It was first reported in a July 2, 1862, \"Halifax Sun and Advisor\" article, which mentioned a June 2, 1862, letter by J. B. McCully which retold the story of the stone. Offering a secondhand description of its discovery during the 1805 excavation, McCully wrote: \"Some [layers] were charcoal, some putty, and one at 80 feet was a stone cut square, two feet long and about a foot thick, with several characters cut on it.\" No 19th-century account attests to what the actual symbols were. The earliest documentation of the reported symbols is Edward Rowe Snow's 1949 book, \"True Tales of Buried Treasure\". According to Snow, A. T. Kempton of Cambridge, Massachusetts provided him with the symbols but did not disclose where or how he had obtained them.\n\nIn an 1863 newspaper article, the stone was said to have been built into the \"chimney of an old house near the pit\". Another article, a year later, claimed that the stone was held by the Smith family. On January 2, 1864, Historical Society of Nova Scotia secretary John Hunter-Duvar contacted treasure hunter George Cooke. In a January 27, 1864, letter to Hunter-Duvar, Cooke claimed that Smith built the stone into his chimney in 1824 and said that he was shown the stone by Smith in the chimney around 1850, when \"there were some crudely cut letters, figures or characters upon it. I cannot recollect which, but they appear as if they had been scraped out by a blunt instrument, rather than cut with a sharp one.\" According to Cooke, when he made inquiries in 1864, he discovered that the chimney had been enclosed in wood and surrounded by a staircase; the stone was no longer visible. An undated post-1893 letter by William Blair read, \"Jefferson W. McDonald, who first mentioned Oak Island to me in 1893, worked under George Mitchell. Mr. McDonald, who was a carpenter by trade, also told of taking down a partition in Smith's house, in order that he with others might examine the characters cut on the stone used in the fireplace in the house. The characters were there all right, but no person present could decipher them.\" Mitchell was the superintendent of works for the Oak Island Association, which was formed on April 3, 1861, and ceased operation by March 29, 1865.\n\nIn his 1872 novel, \"The Treasure of the Seas\", James DeMille describes being a summer resident of Chester Basin during the later 1860s. DeMille lived on Oak Island for a summer and had firsthand knowledge of the area. The characters in the novel find that the stone had been removed from the chimney when they arrived on the island; until then, no one had been able to decode the mysterious symbols reportedly on the stone, which an inn landlord describes as 'rather faint, and irregular' — he also says that 'men who don't believe in Kidd's treasure ... say that it isn't an inscription at all ... it's only some accidental scratches'. \nReginald Vanderbilt Harris (1881–1986) wrote in his 1958 book, \"The Oak Island Mystery\", \"About 1865–1866 the stone was removed and taken to Halifax. Among those who worked to remove the stone was Jefferson W. MacDonald.\" The Blair letter mentioned above states that MacDonald took down the partition in order to examine the stone, not to remove it. Harris provides no source for the claim that the stone was removed in 1865 or 1866. The next mention of the stone is in an 1893 Oak Island Treasure Company prospectus. According to the prospectus, the stone was taken out of the chimney and moved to Halifax; there, an unnamed expert was said to have deciphered the stone as reading: \"Ten feet below are two million pounds buried.\" \n\nOn August 19, 1911, \"Collier's\" magazine published a firsthand account by Captain H. L. Bowdoin of the stone (which was then in use at Creighton's bookbindery in Halifax). Bowdoin described the rock as \"of a basalt type hard and fine-grained.\" The stone he saw had no symbols on it. Although Bowdoin was told that they had worn off, he was skeptical because of the stone's hardness.\nAccording to Charles B. Driscoll's 1929 book, \"The Oak Island Treasure\" (based on secondhand accounts),\nThe stone was reportedly brought by A. O. Creighton (of the 1866 expedition) from the Smith home to Creighton's bookbindery in Halifax. Harry W. Marshall (born 1879), the son of an owner of the bookbindery, wrote in 1935 that: -\n\n\nFranklin Delano Roosevelt, stirred by family stories originating from his sailing and trading grandfather (and Oak Island financier) Warren Delano, Jr., began following the mystery in late 1909 and early 1910. Roosevelt continued to follow it until his death in 1945. Throughout his political career, he monitored the island's recovery attempts and development. Although the president secretly planned to visit Oak Island in 1939 while he was in Halifax, fog and the international situation\nprevented him from doing so.\n\nAustralian-American actor Errol Flynn invested in an Oak Island treasure dig. Actor John Wayne also invested in the drilling equipment used on the island and offered his equipment to be used to help solve the mystery. William Vincent Astor, heir to the Astor family fortune after his father died on the \"Titanic\", was a passive investor in digging for treasure on the island.\n\nRear Admiral Richard E. Byrd, Jr. was also a passive investor in Oak Island exploration and treasure hunting, and monitored their status. Byrd advised Franklin D. Roosevelt about the island; the men forged a relationship, forming the United States Antarctic Service (USAS, a federal-government program) with Byrd nominally in command.\n\nWide-ranging speculation exists about how the pit was formed and what it might contain. According to Joe Nickell, there is no treasure; the pit is a natural phenomenon, probably a sinkhole connected to limestone passages or caverns. Suggestions that the pit is a natural phenomenon (accumulated debris in a sinkhole or geological fault) date to at least 1911. A number of sinkholes and underground caves, to which the \"booby traps\" are attributed, exist on the mainland near the island.\n\nIts resemblance to a human-made pit has been suggested as partly due to the texture of natural, accumulated debris in sinkholes: \"This filling would be softer than the surrounding ground, and give the impression that it had been dug up before\". The \"platforms\" of rotten logs have been attributed to trees, damaged by \"blowdowns\" (derechos) or wildfires, periodically falling (or washing into) the hollow.\n\nAnother pit, similar to the early description of the \"money pit\", was discovered in the area in 1949 when workmen were digging a well on the shore of Mahone Bay. At a point where the earth was soft, \"At about two feet down a layer of fieldstone was struck. Then logs of spruce and oak were unearthed at irregular intervals, and some of the wood was charred. The immediate suspicion was that another money pit had been found.\"\n\nAccording to the earliest theory, the pit held a pirate treasure buried by Captain Kidd; Kidd reportedly conspired with Henry Avery, and Oak Island was their community bank. Another pirate theory involved Edward Teach (Blackbeard), who said that he buried his treasure \"where none but Satan and myself can find it.\"\n\nAn additional proposed explanation is that the pit was dug by Spanish sailors to hold treasure from a wrecked galleon or British troops stationed there during the American Revolution. Others claim that British marines dug the pit to store the loot acquired from the British invasion of Cuba, valued at about £1,000,000 pounds (about $180,000,000 in 2015). John Godwin wrote that given the apparent size and complexity of the pit, it was probably dug by French Army engineers hoping to hide the treasury of the Fortress of Louisbourg after it fell to the British during the Seven Years' War.\n\nMarie Antoinette's jewels, missing except for specimens in museum collections, have been reportedly hidden on the island. On October 5, 1789, an angry mob of Parisian working women was incited by revolutionaries and marched on the Palace of Versailles. According to the undocumented story, Marie Antoinette instructed her maid (or a lady-in-waiting) to take the jewels and flee. The maid fled to London with the jewels and (perhaps) other treasures, such as artwork or documents, secreted on her person or in her luggage.\nThe woman then fled from London to Nova Scotia. Using royal connections, she contracted with the French Navy to construct the Oak Island pit.\nIn late 2017 the first possible evidence of this theory seemed to have been validated by the discovery of a 500-year-old brooch containing a large garnet.\n\nIn his 1953 book, \"The Oak Island Enigma: A History and Inquiry Into the Origin of the Money Pit\", Penn Leary wrote that the pit was used to hide manuscripts indicating that Francis Bacon was the author of William Shakespeare's works and a leader of the Rosicrucians. Leary's \"The Second Cryptographic Shakespeare\", published in 1990, identified ciphers in Shakespeare's plays and poems which pointed to Bacon's authorship. Author and researcher Mark Finnan elaborated on Leary's Oak Island theory, which was also used in the Norwegian book \"Organisten\" (\"The Seven Steps to Mercy\") by Erlend Loe and Petter Amundsen and the TV series \"Sweet Swan of Avon\".\n\nIn his book, \"Oak Island Secrets\", Mark Finnan noted that many Masonic markings were found on Oak Island, and the shaft (or pit) and its mysterious contents seemed to replicate aspects of a Masonic initiation rite involving a hidden vault with a sacred treasure. Joe Nickell identifies parallels between Oak Island accounts, the \"Secret Vault\" allegory in York Rite Freemasonry and the Chase Vault on Barbados.\nFreemason Dennis King examines the Masonic aspects of the Oak Island legend in his article, \"The Oak Island Legend: The Masonic Angle\". Steven Sora speculated that the pit could have been dug by exiled Knights Templar and might be the final resting place of the Holy Grail or the Ark of the Covenant.\n\nAnother theory holds that the Rosicrucians and their reported leader, Francis Bacon, organized a secret project to make Oak Island the home of its legendary vault with ingenious means to conceal ancient manuscripts and artifacts. Researchers and cryptographers such as Petter Amundsen and Daniel Ronnstam claim to have found codes hidden in Shakespeare, rock formations on the island, and clues hidden in other 16th- and 17th-century art and historical documents. According to Daniel Ronnstam, the stone found at contains a dual cipher created by Bacon.\n\nAuthor Joy Steele suggests that the money pit is actually a tar kiln dating to the historical period when \"Oak Island served as a tar-making location as part of the British naval stores industry\". When marine biologist Barry Fell attempted to have the symbols on the stone translated during the late 1970s, he said that the symbols resembled the Coptic alphabet and read: \"To escape contagion of plague and winter hardships, he is to pray for an end or mitigation the Arif: The people will perish in misery if they forget the Lord, alas.\" According to Fell's theory, Coptic migrants sailed from North Africa to Oak Island and constructed the pit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19960264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19960264", "title": "Olivia in Concert", "text": "Olivia in Concert\n\nOlivia in Concert is a 1983 video album of a concert by singer Olivia Newton-John. The concert was taped at Weber State University in Ogden, Utah on October 12 and 13, 1982. It originally premiered as a television special on HBO on January 23, 1983. The video charted at No. 15 on \"Billboard\" Top Videodisks and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America for shipment of 50,000 units in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "1832706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1832706", "title": "Pemoline", "text": "Pemoline\n\nPemoline is a stimulant drug of the 4-oxazolidinone class. It was first synthesized in 1913 but its activity was not discovered until the 1930s. Under the names Betanamin, Cylert, Tradon, and Ceractiv it was used as a medication to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. Under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, it is a Schedule IV drug. It is no longer generally available in the United States as a result of the FDA withdrawing approval of pemoline as an indicated treatment for ADHD, due to its implication in liver failures among children who were receiving the medication. An FDA Alert warned against prescribing pemoline for ADHD. This spurred Abbott Laboratories, the patent owner of Cylert, to cease manufacturing Cylert. Manufacturers of the generic equivalents followed suit.\n\nPemoline is generally considered dopaminergic, but its precise method of action hasn't yet been definitively determined. Pemoline passes the blood–brain barrier and acts as a surrogate for dopamine, not affecting endogenous intracellular dopamine. For this reason, and the fact that it has little or no affinity for adrenaline receptors, pemoline has minimal sympathomimetic side effects such as: dry mouth, reduction in appetite, high blood pressure, increased heart rate, constriction of smooth muscle, cardiac stress, dilated pupils and insomnia. There is some data to suggest that pemoline is a nootropic acting as a catalyst conductor in the synapses of the brain's memory centers, raising the efficiency of memory and assisting RNA formation in the brain. While drugs like dexamphetamine and methylphenidate are classified as Schedule II, pemoline is listed as Schedule IV (non-narcotic). In studies conducted on primates, pemoline fails to demonstrate a potential for self-administration.\n\nPemoline is Schedule IV Non-Narcotic (Stimulant) controlled substance with a DEA ACSCN of 1530 and is not subject to annual manufacturing quotas. The salts in use are pemoline magnesium (free base conversion ratio .751), pemoline iron (.578), pemoline copper (.644), pemoline nickel (.578), pemoline rubidium, pemoline calcium, pemoline chromium, and chelates of the above which are identical in weight to the salt mentioned. Pemoline free base and pemoline cobalt, strontium, silver, barium, lithium, sodium, potassium, zinc, manganese, and caesium are research chemicals which can be produced in situ for experiments. Others such as lanthanide pemoline salts such as pemoline cerium can be prepared; pemoline beryllium would presumably be toxic.\n\nOther stimulants and MAOI’s are contraindicated with pemoline.\n\nIn some patients pemoline is suspected of causing hepatotoxicity, so the FDA recommended that regular liver tests should be performed on those treated with it. Since receiving FDA approval in 1975, it has been linked with 21 cases of liver failure, of which 13 resulted in liver replacement or death.\n\nIn March 2005 Abbott Laboratories and generic manufacturers withdrew pemoline from the American market due to concerns about the liver toxicity risk.\n\nOverdose of pemoline may present with choreoathetosis symptoms.\n\nPemoline is synthesized by the condensation of racemic ethyl mandelate with guanidine.\n"}
{"id": "21689192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21689192", "title": "Presidential Council of the Soviet Union", "text": "Presidential Council of the Soviet Union\n\nThe Presidential Council was created in March 1990 to replace the Politburo as the major policymaking body in the USSR. According to article 127 in the Soviet constitution the job of the presidential council was \"to implement the basic thrust of USSR's domestic and foreign policy and ensure the country's security\". It was abolished on 26 December 1990. Only the writer Valentin Rasputin was a non-party member.\n\nThe members were as follows:\n"}
{"id": "306611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306611", "title": "Rock festival", "text": "Rock festival\n\nA rock festival, often considered synonymous with pop festival, is a large-scale rock music concert, featuring multiple acts performing an often diverse range of popular music including rock, pop, folk, electronic, and related genres.\n\nAs originally conceived in the mid to late 1960s, rock festivals were held outdoors, often in open rural areas or open-air sports arenas, fairgrounds and parks, typically lasted two or more days, featured long rosters of musical performers, and attracted very large crowds, sometimes numbering several hundred thousand people.\n\nInitially, some of the earliest rock festivals were built on the foundation of pre-existing jazz and blues festivals, but quickly evolved to reflect the rapidly changing musical tastes of the time. For example, the United Kingdom’s National Jazz Festival was launched in Richmond from August 26–27, 1961. The first three of these annual outdoor festivals featured only jazz music, but by the fourth \"Jazz & Blues Festival\" in 1964, a shift had begun that incorporated some blues and pop artists into the lineup. In 1965, for the first time the event included more blues, pop and rock acts than jazz, and by 1966, when the event moved to the town of Windsor, the rock and pop acts clearly dominated the jazz artists.\n\nA similar, though more rapid, evolution occurred with Jazz Bilzen, a solely jazz festival that was inaugurated in 1965 in the Belgian city of Bilzen. The 1966 festival still featured mostly jazz acts. However, by the time of the third festival from August 25–27, 1967, rock and pop acts had edged out most of the jazz bands and become the main attraction.\n\nIn the United States, rock festivals seemed to spring up with a more self-defined musical identity. Preceded by several precursor events in the San Francisco area, the first two rock festivals in the US were staged in northern California on consecutive weekends in the summer of 1967: the KFRC Fantasy Fair & Magic Mountain Music Festival on Mount Tamalpais (June 10–11) and the Monterey International Pop Festival (June 16–17).\n\nThe concept caught fire and spread quickly as rock festivals took on a unique identity and attracted significant media attention around the world. By 1969, promoters were staging dozens of them. According to Bill Mankin, in their dawning age rock festivals were important socio-cultural milestones: \"… it would not be an exaggeration to say that, over a few short years, rock festivals played a unique, significant – and underappreciated – role in fueling the countercultural shift that swept not only America but many other countries [during the 1960s]. It seems fitting… that one of the most enduring labels for the entire generation of that era was derived from a rock festival: the ‘Woodstock Generation’.\"\n\nReflecting their musical diversity and the then-common term ‘pop music’, for the first few years, particularly in the US, many rock festivals were called ‘pop festivals’. This also served to distinguish them among the ticket-buying public from other, pre-existing types of music festivals such as jazz and folk festivals. By the end of 1972, the term ‘pop festival’ had virtually disappeared as festival promoters adopted more creative, unique and location-specific names to identify and advertise their events. While it was still in vogue, however, over-zealous promoters eager to capitalize on the festival concept made the most of it, with some using the term \"Pop Festival\" or \"Rock Festival\" to advertise events held on a single day or evening, often indoors, and featuring only a handful of acts.\n\nToday, rock festivals are still usually open-air concerts spread out over several days. Many are annual events sponsored by the same organization, and many feature a single type or closely related genres of music such as dance, electronic, or heavy metal.\n\nProduction and financing\n\nSeveral of the early rock festival organizers of the 1960s such as Chet Helms, Tom Rounds, Alex Cooley and Michael Lang helped create the blueprint for large-scale rock festivals in the United States, as well promoters such as Wally Hope in the United Kingdom. In various countries, the organizers of rock festivals have faced legal action from authorities, in part because such festivals have attracted large counterculture elements. In 1972, Mar Y Sol Pop Festival in Manatí, Puerto Rico attracted an estimated 30-35,000 people, and an arrest warrant was issued for promoter Alex Cooley, who avoided arrest by leaving the island before the festival was over. British Free Festival organizers Ubi Dwyer and Sid Rawle were imprisoned for attempting to promote a 1975 Windsor Festival, and the British police would later outright attack free festival attendees at the 1985 Battle of the Beanfield.\n\nFestivals may require millions of USD to be organized, with the money often gathered through fundraising and angel investors.\n\nStages and sound systems\n\nWhile rock concerts typically feature a small lineup of rock bands playing a single stage, rock festivals often grow large enough to require several stages or venues with live bands playing concurrently. Some of these stages may in turn become known and large enough to be seen as festivals themselves, such as The Glade at the famous Glastonbury Festival in England. As rock music has increasingly been fused with other genres, sometimes stages will be devoted to a specific genre, such as folk rock or reggae. Some festivals such as SXSW hold smaller concurrent concerts throughout a city.\n\nAdvances in sound reinforcement systems beginning in the 1960s enabled larger and larger rock festival audiences to hear the performers' music with much better clarity and volume. The best example was the pioneering work of Bill Hanley, known as the \"father of festival sound\", who provided the sound systems for numerous rock festivals including Woodstock. Other examples included the Wall of Sound invented in the 1970s to allow the Grateful Dead to play to larger audiences, and mobile sound systems such as those maintained by the Merry Pranksters, which would later be important in the development of events such as reggae festivals and raves.\n\nCamping and crowd control\n\nMany festivals offer camping, either because lodging in the area is insufficient to support the crowd, or to allow easy multi-day access to the festival's features. Festival planning and logistics are frequently a focus of the media, and while some festivals such as the historic Sky River Rock Festival were seen as logistical successes, other festivals such as the heavily commercialized Woodstock 1999 were crowd control disasters, with insufficient water and other resources provided to audiences. Many early rock festivals successfully relied on volunteers for crowd control, for example individuals like Wavy Gravy and biker groups such as the Hells Angels and Grim Reapers Motorcycle Club. Gravy in particular called his security group the \"Please Force,\" a reference to their non-intrusive tactics at keeping order, e.g., \"Please don't do that, please do this instead\". When asked by the press — who were the first to inform him that he and the rest of his commune were handling security — what kind of tools he intended to use to maintain order at Woodstock in 1969, his response was \"Cream pies and seltzer bottles.\" Other rock festivals hire private security or local police departments for crowd control, with varying degrees of success.\n\nA recent innovation is the traveling rock festival where many musical acts perform at multiple locations during a tour. Successful festivals are often held in subsequent years. The following is an incomplete list.\n\nThe following is a list of some notable rock festivals that take place on a regular basis. Most are held at the same location on an annual basis. Some, like Farm Aid are held at different venues with each incarnation. For a full list of festivals, see the external links at the bottom of the page.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6072906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6072906", "title": "Samba (ballroom dance)", "text": "Samba (ballroom dance)\n\nThe international ballroom version of samba is a lively, rhythmical dance with elements from Brazilian samba. It differs considerably from the original samba styles of Brazil, in particular it differs from Samba de Gafieira, a partner type of Samba in Brazil. \n\nAs a ballroom dance, the samba is a partner dance. Ballroom samba, even more than other ballroom dances, is very disconnected from the origins and evolution of the music and dance that gives it its name.\n\nMost steps are danced with a slight downward bouncing or dropping action. This action is created through the bending and straightening of the knees, with bending occurring on the beats of 1 and 2, and the straightening occurring between. However, unlike the bouncing of, e.g., Polka, there is no considerable bobbing. Also, Samba has a specific hip action, different from that in ballroom Latin dances (Rumba and Cha-Cha-Cha).\n\nThe ballroom samba is danced to music in 2/4 or 4/4 time. It uses several different rhythmic patterns in its figures, with cross-rhythms being a common feature. Thus, for three-step patterns, common step values (in beats) are:\n\nThe ballroom samba is danced under several different rhythms, including the original samba music. It is also possible to dance ballroom samba with flamenco, zouk, and other South American rhythms.\n"}
{"id": "11045627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11045627", "title": "Script Frenzy", "text": "Script Frenzy\n\nScript Frenzy, also known as Screenzy , was an international screenwriting challenge where participants attempted to write a script (for the stage, screen, or many other mediums) during the month of April.\n\nThe event was organized by The Office of Letters and Light, the nonprofit organization behind National Novel Writing Month (\"NaNoWriMo\"). It ran each year from 2007 until 2012.\n\nThe first Script Frenzy was held in June 2007 with a goal of 20,000 words to win. In 2008, Script Frenzy was moved to April and the goal was changed to 100 pages. The goals are roughly equivalent; the change simply reflects the fact that page count is a more standard measure of script length.\n\nOther changes include the ability for writers to team up and work as two-person teams. The functionality was given to link both writers such that their page count would be shared.\n\nFinally, in the original Script Frenzy only screenplays and stage plays were permitted. This has been expanded to include other types of scripts including TV series, graphic novels, shorts and audio plays amongst others. For the shorter formats, participants were allowed to submit several scripts to make up the 100-page total.\n\nOn June 26, 2012 it was announced that Script Frenzy was being closed down. The decision was made by the Office of Letters and Lights board after close consideration and a vote. The event was cancelled due to a continued decline in participants, and likewise, a continued decline in donations.\n\nAdult Program Statistics:\n\n\nYoung Writers Program Statistics:\n\n\nThe 5 Basic Rules of Script Frenzy are as follows:\n\n\nScript Frenzy is the script version of National Novel Writing Month, better-known as NaNoWriMo, where participants use November's 30 days to try to write 50,000 words of prose (a short novel, or series of short stories, or part of a longer novel). NaNoWriMo was started in July 1999 by Chris Baty, and garnered a mere 21 participants. In 2000, the challenge moved to November, and by 2009, the event had 170,000 participants.\n\n"}
{"id": "32586311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32586311", "title": "Socrates (Voltaire)", "text": "Socrates (Voltaire)\n\nSocrates () is a 1759 French play in three acts written by Voltaire. It is set in Ancient Greece during the events just before the trial and death of Greek philosopher Socrates. It is heavy with satire specifically at government authority and organized religion. The main characters besides the titular role is that of the priest Anitus, his entourage, Socrates' wife Xantippe, several judges, and some children Socrates has adopted as his own. \n\nLike more historical accounts by Herodotus, Plato, and Xenophon, the playwright shows Socrates as a moral individual charged with baseless accusations by a conspiracy of corrupt Athenians or Athenian officials although Voltaire implies that the wrongdoers are a select few. \n\nUnlike the historical account, Socrates deals with several judges, whereas his real life counterpart receives his punishment of death by hemlock by a jury of 500 Athenians. The presence or mention of Socrates' best-known students such as Plato, Antisthenes, Aristippus, and others are replaced by unnamed disciples, delivering only a few token lines at the end of the play. Socrates is also portrayed as a monotheist and a victim of religious persecution, an interpretation that is not generally shared by modern scholars and historians.\n\nGenerally, this is not the most well-known of his works in comparison with \"Letters on the English\" which Voltaire published in 1778 or the \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" published earlier in 1764. However, hints of his contempt for government and religion are apparent here which later influenced the leaders of the American Revolution and the French Revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "11890247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11890247", "title": "Spec Focus", "text": "Spec Focus\n\nSpec Focus (SF) is a class of racing car used in National Auto Sport Association (NASA). The SF class focuses on the popular Ford Focus. SF is geared toward budget-minded enthusiasts looking for an affordable and fun class with rules that guarantee close competition on a reasonable budget with cars built in this century. SF allows owners of a Ford Focus to go racing by simply adding an easily available assortment of bolt-on parts and safety equipment and is a perfect starting point for aspiring new drivers to get into racing. The normal cost for a Spec Focus is $8,000 to $10,000. \n\nSpec Focus races are run at all NASA regional events, as well as the annual National Championships held each year at the Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course.\n\n• 2000-2008 Ford Focus ZX3, ZX5, ZX4, ZTS, SVT, Coupes and Sedans\n\n• 2.0L Zetec, 2.0 SVT, 2.0L Duratec, 2.3L Duratec\n\n• 160+ WHP\n\n• Ford Racing Dynamic Dampers\n\n• Ford Racing Spec Focus Springs\n\n• Performance Sway Bars\n\n• Ford MTX-75 transmission\n\n• Ford Racing SVT Brakes\n\n• OEM, SVT, RS Type Kits\n\n• SVT or RS Type Spoilers Allowed\n\n• 17 x 7 Ford Racing Wheels\n\n• Toyo Proxes R888 215/45 x 17\n\n• Estimated cost $7,000 to $9,000\n\nThis section is not an exhaustive set of rules; it is intended to give the reader an idea of the preparation level of the cars in this class.\n\nSpec Focus use specific Multimatic Inverted Dynamic dampers with Multimatic springs and adjustable front and rear sway bars, SVT Brake kit. Toyo Tires are specified for the Spec Focus Series. The tire are 215/45x17 Toyo R888 Race tires that will fit on a Ford Racing Performance Parts 17x7 wheel.\n\nCars with 2.0 liter engines have a minimal weight of 2600 pounds and cars with a 2.3 liter Duratec engines have a minimum race weight of 2675 pounds. \n\nThe full rules for the class may be found in the current Spec Focus Category Specifications of the NASA rule book.\n\nNational Series Director - West: Ted Severns\n\nNational Series Director - East: Leo Capaldi\n\n2006 Brett Mars, Ohio/Indiana Region\n\n2007 Craig Capaldi, Ohio/Indiana Region\n\n2008 Craig Capaldi, Ohio/Indiana Region\n\nAutobahn County Club: Chris Kisner - 2.0L SVT ZX3 1:47.276 \n\nButtonwillow Raceway Park 13CW: Ryan Lapp - 2.0L Zetec ZX3 2:11.219\n\nButtonwillow Raceway Park 13CCW: Ryan Lapp - 2.0L Zetec ZX3 2:10.842\n\nCalifornia Speedway: Preston Lerner - 2.3L Duratec ZX4 ST 2:02.683\n\nGateway International Raceway: Thomas Gage - 2.0L SVT 1:14.799\n\nMid-Ohio (Club Course): Brett Mars - 2.3L Duratec ZX4 ST 1:48.100\n\nMid-Ohio (Pro Course): Craig Capaldi - 2.3L Duratec ZX5 1:45.495 \n\nPhoenix Intl Raceway: Tom Wilson - 2.0L Zetec ZX3 1:15.323\n\nGrattan Raceway: Leo Capaldi - 2.0L Duratec ZX5 1:33.157\n\nSummit Point (full): Matt Marks - 2.3L Duratec ZX4 ST 1:33.417\n\nVirginia International Raceway: Matt Marks - 2.3L Duratec ZX4 ST 2:26.943\n\nVirginia International Raceway (North): Matt Marks - 2.3L Duratec ZX4 ST 1:52.774 \n\nWillow Springs Raceway: Ryan Lapp - 2.0L Zetec ZX3 1:38.965\n\n\n\"General Competition Rules and Specifications\", 2007, NASA Spec Focus Series.\n"}
{"id": "23535950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23535950", "title": "Stampacchia Medal", "text": "Stampacchia Medal\n\nThe Stampacchia Gold Medal is an international prize awarded every three years by the Italian Mathematical Union (\"Unione Matematica Italiana\" - \"UMI\" {}) together with the Ettore Majorana Foundation (Erice), in recognition of outstanding contributions to the field of Calculus of Variations and related applications. The medal, named after the Italian mathematician Guido Stampacchia, goes to a mathematician whose age does not exceed 35.\n\n"}
{"id": "19495680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19495680", "title": "Te Deum (Charpentier)", "text": "Te Deum (Charpentier)\n\nMarc-Antoine Charpentier composed his grand polyphonic motet Te Deum (H. 146) in D major probably between 1688 and 1698, during his stay at the Jesuit Church of Saint-Louis in Paris, where he held the position of musical director. The work is written for the group of soloists, choir, and instrumental accompaniment.\n\nCharpentier authored six \"Te Deum\" settings, although only four of them have survived. It is thought that the composition was performed to mark the victory celebrations and the Battle of Steinkirk in August, 1692.\n\nThe composition consists of the following parts:\n\nCharpentier considered the key D-major as \"bright and very warlike\". The instrumental introduction, composed in the form of rondo, precedes the first verset, led by the bass soloist. The choir and other soloists join gradually. Charpentier apparently intended to orchestrate the work according to the traditional exegesis of the Latin text. The choir thus predominates in the first part (verset 1–10, praise of God, heavenly dimension), and individual soloists in the second part (verset 11–20, Christological section, secular dimension). In subsequent versets, nos. 21–25, both soloists and choir alternate, and the final verset is a large-scale fugue written for choir, with a short trio for soloists in the middle.\n\nThe composition is scored for five soloists (SSATB) and choir (SATB), accompanied with an instrumental ensemble of 2 nonspecified recorders or flutes, 2 oboes, trumpet, low trumpet and timpani (playing the same part), 2 violins, 2 violas (\"haute-contres de violon\" and \"tailles de violon\") and basso continuo. \n\nTypical continuo instruments used in French baroque music are \"basses de violon\" (a cello-like, large scaled instrument often replaced by cellos in modern performances), organ, harpsichord, theorbo, bass viol and bassoon. Furthermore, serpents were frequently used to double the bass line of vocal choirs in 17th century France.\n\nThe orchestral tutti is mostly constricted to 4 parts (all high wind instruments and violins playing the same line), while the vocal soloist sections make use of a lighter three-part instrumental texture including 2 flutes and basso continuo as well as 2 violins and basso continuo.\n\nAfter the work's rediscovery in 1953 by French musicologist Carl de Nys, the instrumental prelude, \"Marche en rondeau\", was chosen in 1954 as the theme music preceding the broadcasts of the European Broadcasting Union. After over sixty years of use notably before EBU programs such as the popular Eurovision Song Contest and Jeux Sans Frontières, the prelude, as arranged by Guy Lambert and directed by Louis Martini, has become Charpentier's best-known work.\n\nThe prelude was used for the introduction of the \"Olympiad\" films by Bud Greenspan.\n\nThe prelude was briefly played during King Richard's coronation in the 1995 film \"Richard III\".\n\nThe prelude was played in the TV series \"Outlander\", Series 2 Episode 2, in a scene at the Palace of Versailles in 1744, during the reign of King Louis XV of France.\n\nThe prelude was used in popular songs including \"United\" by Drafi and \"Kun rakkaus voittaa\" by Fredi.\n\n"}
{"id": "12256581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12256581", "title": "Thenalidine", "text": "Thenalidine\n\nThenalidine is an antihistamine with anticholinergic properties used as an antipruritic drug. It was withdrawn from the US, Canadian, and UK markets in 1963 due to a risk of neutropenia.\n"}
{"id": "35850176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35850176", "title": "Uruguayan general election, 1984", "text": "Uruguayan general election, 1984\n\nGeneral elections were held in Uruguay on 25 November 1984, the first since the 1973 coup. Since then the country had been run by a civic-military dictatorship. The electoral process was considered transparent and marked the end of the dictatorship. The result was a victory for the Colorado Party, which won the most seats in the Chamber of Deputies and received the most votes in the presidential election.\n\n"}
{"id": "2228347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2228347", "title": "World Scrabble Championship 1999", "text": "World Scrabble Championship 1999\n\nThe World Scrabble Championship 1999 was the fifth World Scrabble Championship and was held at the Carlton Crest Hotel, Melbourne, Australia. \n\nThe winner was Joel Wapnick of Canada. This was the second time a player representing Canada has won, the first being when David Boys won in 1995. The 1991 champion, Peter Morris, was also a Canadian but represented the United States.\n\nEight games were played on each of the first three days with the top two players advancing to a best-of-five finals.\n\nIn the first game, Wapnick opened with the bingo CHAPLET and took a 249-60 lead three turns later with the double -double FILTHIER then cruised to a 624-307 victory. Nyman took the second game and Wapnick took the third then got off to an early lead in the fourth before losing a turn when he tried the phony FUROUR. The game remained tight, with both players getting down two bingos, until Wapnick drew the X and DEOXY for 50 to take a one -point lead and take the last tile out of the bag. With Wapnick having multiple places to go out, Nyman was unable to catch him and lost by a single point. Joel Wapnick could now add a world title to his US national title and Canadian title, one of only two players to have won the big three.\n\n"}
{"id": "43013034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43013034", "title": "Yaga Gathering", "text": "Yaga Gathering\n\nYaga Gathering is a transformational festival hosted in a clearing in Ežeraitis Forest, at the edge of Spengla Lake in the Varėna District of southern Lithuania. The festival has no corporate sponsors, and is financed by ticket sales. The site of the festival is about south of Vilnius, the capital of Lithuania.\n\nDJs and live bands from various countries perform on five stages: the Main Stage, the Forest Stage, the Concept Stage, the Chillout Stage and the Silent Stage. Classes and activities are mong the festival's other attractions, including yoga sessions, handicraft workshops, and a children's area. The design of the event space incorporates art installations and exhibits. Most of the festival infrastructure is built using biodegradable materials. Attendees are permitted to camp on-site.\n\nYaga Gathering was originally a psychedelic trance music festival called Shambala Festival—named for the mythical hidden kingdom of Shambhala. The first event took place from 18–20 July 2003; it was small and not widely advertised. Organisers produced a second festival in 2005, and by the third festival in 2006 they had added a yoga class, a drum circle, film screenings, lectures, and a sweat lodge.\n\nThe 2007 festival was renamed Yaga Gathering. Yaga Gathering returned in 2009, and again in 2011 through 2017. There was no Yaga Festival in 2008 or 2010. Yaga Gathering 2017 took place on 3–7 August 2017; the 13th festival, Yaga Gathering 2018, is planned for 9–13 August 2018.\n\nIn Vedic tradition, a \"yaga\" () is a ritual performed in front of a sacred fire, or one in which an offering is burned in a fire. The festival's name alludes to spiritual rebirth.\n\n"}
