{"id": "9298338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9298338", "title": "650 California Street", "text": "650 California Street\n\n650 California Street, also known as the Hartford Building, is a 34 story, 142 m, (466 feet) office tower on the northwestern edge of San Francisco's Financial District. The tower is located on California Street on the edge of Chinatown, and not far from 555 California Street. 650 California is visible from every direction except from the southeast, where the Financial District skyscrapers block the view.\n\nThe building was designed by Edward Charles Bassett of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill for Hartford Insurance, its initial tenant. It is architecturally significant, featuring a tall modernist lobby, high ceilings, and an exterior skeleton of floor-to-ceiling windows recessed into a square gridwork of precast white reinforced concrete.\n\nWhen this tower was completed in 1964, it was the second in San Francisco larger than . For a time it was also California's tallest building, replacing both the Russ Building in San Francisco and the Los Angeles City Hall in Los Angeles, California. \n\n650 California was acquired for by the Pivotal Group in 2000, and later sold to private investors, A-650 California St. LLC, and AEW Capital Management in 2007. The tower was acquired by Tishman Speyer and partner Prudential Real Estate Investors in 2012 for about . Tishman undertook a renovation, which included a remodeled lobby by New York-based firm MdeAS Architects. Tishman sold 650 California to Columbia Property Trust Inc. in September 2014 for .\n\n650 California Street passed the certification requirements for the Gold Level of the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating in June 2011. The LEED building certification system is a program for rating the design, construction and operation of environmentally and socially responsible buildings.\n\nThe building is the fictional setting of Doris Martin's workplace in \"The Doris Day Show\".\n\nKey tenants include Omnicom Group Inc., Access Communications, AppDirect, CrossInstall, Analysis Group, Credit Suisse, Affirm, and Recommind.\n\n"}
{"id": "13198770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13198770", "title": "Abrasive blasting", "text": "Abrasive blasting\n\nAbrasive blasting, more commonly known as sandblasting, is the operation of forcibly propelling a stream of abrasive material against a surface under high pressure to smooth a rough surface, roughen a smooth surface, shape a surface or remove surface contaminants. A pressurised fluid, typically compressed air, or a centrifugal wheel is used to propel the blasting material (often called the \"media\"). The first abrasive blasting process was patented by Benjamin Chew Tilghman on 18 October 1870.\n\nThere are several variants of the process, using various media; some are highly abrasive, whereas others are milder. The most abrasive are shot blasting (with metal shot) and sandblasting (with sand). Moderately abrasive variants include glass bead blasting (with glass beads) and media blasting with ground-up plastic stock or walnut shells and corncobs. Some of these substances can cause anaphylactic shock to both operators and passers by. A mild version is sodablasting (with baking soda). In addition, there are alternatives that are barely abrasive or nonabrasive, such as ice blasting and dry-ice blasting.\n\nSandblasting or bead blasting is a generic term for the process of smoothing, shaping and cleaning a hard surface by forcing solid particles across that surface at high speeds; the effect is similar to that of using sandpaper, but provides a more even finish with no problems at corners or crannies. Sandblasting can occur naturally, usually as a result of particles blown by wind causing aeolian erosion, or artificially, using compressed air. An artificial sandblasting process was patented by Benjamin Chew Tilghman on 18 October 1870.\n\nSandblasting equipment typically consists of a chamber in which sand and air are mixed. The mixture travels through a hand-held nozzle to direct the particles toward the surface or workpiece. Nozzles come in a variety of shapes, sizes, and materials. Boron carbide is a popular material for nozzles because it resists abrasive wear well.\n\nOne of the original pioneers of the wet abrasive (vapourmatting) process was Norman Ashworth who found the advantages of using a wet process a strong alternative to dry blasting. The process is available in all conventional formats including hand cabinets, walk-in booths, automated production machinery and total loss portable blasting units. Advantages include the ability to use extremely fine or coarse media with densities ranging from plastic to steel and the ability to use hot water and soap to allow simultaneous degreasing and blasting. The reduction in dust also makes it safer to use silicacious materials for blasting, or to remove hazardous material such as asbestos, radioactive or poisonous products.\n\nProcess speeds are generally not as fast as conventional dry abrasive blasting when using the equivalent size and type of media, in part because the presence of water between the media and the substrate being processed creates a lubricating cushion that can protect both the surface and the media, reducing breakdown rates. Reduced impregnation of blasting material into the surface, dust reduction and the elimination of static cling can result in a very clean surface. However wet blasting of mild steel will result in immediate or 'flash' corrosion of the blasted steel substrate due to the presence of water. The lack of surface recontamination also allows the use of single equipment for multiple blasting operations—e.g., stainless steel and mild steel items can be processed in the same equipment with the same media without problems.\n\n\"Bead blasting\" is the process of removing surface deposits by applying fine glass beads at a high pressure without damaging the surface. It is used to clean calcium deposits from pool tiles or any other surfaces, remove embedded fungus, and brighten grout color. It is also used in auto body work to remove paint. In removing paint for auto body work, bead blasting is preferred over sand blasting, as sand blasting tends to create a greater surface profile than bead blasting. Bead blasting is often used in creating a uniform surface finish on machined parts. It is additionally used in cleaning mineral specimens, most of which have a Mohs hardness of 7 or less and would thus be damaged by sand.\n\nIn wheel blasting, a spinning wheel propels the abrasive against an object. It is typically categorized as an airless blasting operation because there is no propellant (gas or liquid) used. A wheel machine is a high-power, high-efficiency blasting operation with recyclable abrasive (typically steel or stainless steel shot, cut wire, grit, or similarly sized pellets). Specialized wheel blast machines propel plastic abrasive in a cryogenic chamber, and is usually used for deflashing plastic and rubber components. The size of the wheel blast machine, and the number and power of the wheels vary considerably depending on the parts to be blasted as well as on the expected result and efficiency. The first blast wheel was patented by Wheelabrator in 1932.\n\nHydro blasting is not a form of abrasive blasting as no abrasive media is used. Hydro-blasting, commonly known as water blasting, is commonly used because it usually requires only one operator. In hydro-blasting, a highly pressured stream of water is used to remove old paint, chemicals, or buildup without damaging the original surface. This method is ideal for cleaning internal and external surfaces because the operator is generally able to send the stream of water into places that are difficult to reach using other methods. Another benefit of hydro-blasting is the ability to recapture and reuse the water, reducing waste and mitigating environmental impact.\n\nMicro-abrasive blasting is dry abrasive blasting process that uses small nozzles (typically 0.25 mm to 1.5 mm diameter) to deliver a fine stream of abrasive accurately to a small part or a small area on a larger part. Generally the area to be blasted is from about 1 mm to only a few cm at most. Also known as pencil blasting, the fine jet of abrasive is accurate enough to write directly on glass and delicate enough to cut a pattern in an eggshell. The abrasive media particle sizes range from 10 micrometres up to about 150 micrometres. Higher pressures are often required.\n\nThe most common micro-abrasive blasting systems are commercial bench-mounted units consisting of a power supply and mixer, exhaust hood, nozzle, and gas supply. The nozzle can be hand-held or fixture mounted for automatic operation. Either the nozzle or part can be moved in automatic operation.\n\nAutomated blasting is simply the automation of the abrasive blasting process. Automated blasting is frequently just a step in a larger automated procedure, usually involving other surface treatments such as preparation and coating applications. Care is often needed to isolate the blasting chamber from mechanical components that may be subject to dust fouling.\n\nIn this type of blasting, air and dry ice are used. Surface contaminants are dislodged by the force of frozen carbon dioxide particles hitting at high velocity, and by slight shrinkage due to freezing which disrupts adhesion bonds. The dry ice sublimates, leaving no residue to clean up other than the removed material. Dry ice is a relatively soft material, so is less destructive to the underlying material than sandblasting.\n\nBristle blasting, unlike other blasting methods, does not require a separate blast media. The surface is treated by a brush-like rotary tool made of dynamically tuned high-carbon steel wire bristles. Repeated contact with the sharp, rotating bristle tips results in localized impact, rebound, and crater formation, which simultaneously cleans and coarsens the surface.\n\nVacuum blasting is a method that generates very little dust and spill, as the blast tool does dry abrasive blasting and collects used blast media and loosened particles from the surface to be treated, simultaneously. Blast media consumption is relatively low with this method, as the used blast media is automatically separated from dust and loosened particles, and reused several times.\n\nMobile dry abrasive blast systems are typically powered by a diesel air compressor. The air compressor provides a large volume of high pressure air to a single or multiple \"blast pots\". Blast pots are pressurized, tank-like containers, filled with abrasive material, used to allow an adjustable amount of blasting grit into the main blasting line. The number of blast pots is dictated by the volume of air the compressor can provide. Fully equipped blast systems are often found mounted on semi-tractor trailers, offering high mobility and easy transport from site to site. Others are hopper-fed types making them lightweight and more mobile.\n\nIn wet blasting, the abrasive is introduced into a pressurized stream of water or other liquid, creating a slurry. Wet blasting is often used in applications where the minimal dust generation is desired. Portable applications may or may not recycle the abrasive.\n\nA blast cabinet is essentially a closed loop system that allows the operator to blast the part and recycle the abrasive. It usually consists of four components; the containment (cabinet), the abrasive blasting system, the abrasive recycling system and the dust collection. The operator blasts the parts from the outside of the cabinet by placing his arms in gloves attached to glove holes on the cabinet, viewing the part through a view window, turning the blast on and off using a foot pedal or treadle. Automated blast cabinets are also used to process large quantities of the same component and may incorporate multiple blast nozzles and a part conveyance system.\n\nThere are three systems typically used in a blast cabinet. Two, siphon and pressure, are dry and one is wet:\n\n\nNozzles come in a variety of shapes, sizes, and materials. Tungsten carbide is the liner material most often used for mineral abrasives. Silicon carbide and boron carbide nozzles are more wear resistant and are often used with harder abrasives such as aluminum oxide. Inexpensive abrasive blasting systems and smaller cabinets use ceramic nozzles.\n\n\nA blast room is a much larger version of a blast cabinet. Blast operators work inside the room to roughen, smooth, or clean surfaces of an item depending on the needs of the finished product. Blast rooms and blast facilities come in many sizes, some of which are big enough to accommodate very large or uniquely shaped objects like rail cars, commercial and military vehicles, construction equipment, and aircraft.\n\nEach application may require the use of many different pieces of equipment, however, there are several key components that can be found in a typical blast room:\nAdditional equipment can be added for convenience and improved usability, such as overhead cranes for maneuvering the workpiece, wall-mounted units with multiple axes that allow the operator to reach all sides of the workpiece, and sound-dampening materials used to reduce noise levels.\n\nIn the early 1900s, it was assumed that sharp-edged grains provided the best performance, but this was later demonstrated not to be correct.\n\nMineral: Silica sand can be used as a type of mineral abrasive. It tends to break up quickly, creating large quantities of dust, exposing the operator to the potential development of silicosis, a debilitating lung disease. To counter this hazard, silica sand for blasting is often coated with resins to control the dust. Using silica as an abrasive is not allowed in Germany, United Kingdom, Sweden, or Belgium for this reason. Silica is a common abrasive in countries where it is not banned.\n\nAnother common mineral abrasive is garnet. Garnet is more expensive than silica sand, but if used correctly, will offer equivalent production rates while producing less dust and no safety hazards from ingesting the dust. Magnesium sulphate, or kieserite, is often used as an alternative to baking soda.\n\nAgricultural: Typically, crushed nut shells or fruit kernels. These soft abrasives are used to avoid damaging the underlying material such when cleaning brick or stone, removing graffiti, or the removal of coatings from printed circuit boards being repaired.\n\nSynthetic: This category includes corn starch, wheat starch, sodium bicarbonate, and dry ice. These \"soft\" abrasives are also used to avoid damaging the underlying material such when cleaning brick or stone, removing graffiti, or the removal of coatings from printed circuit boards being repaired. Sodablasting uses baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) which is extremely friable, the micro fragmentation on impact exploding away surface materials without damage to the substrate.\n\nAdditional synthetic abrasives include process byproducts (e.g., copper slag, nickel slag, and coal slag), engineered abrasives (e.g., aluminum oxide, silicon carbide or carborundum, glass beads, ceramic shot/grit), and recycled products (e.g., plastic abrasive, glass grit).\n\nMetallic: Steel shot, steel grit, stainless steel shot, cut wire, copper shot, aluminum shot, zinc shot.\n\nMany coarser media used in sandblasting often result in energy being given off as sparks or light on impact. The colours and size of the spark or glow varies significantly, with heavy bright orange sparks from steel shot blasting, to a faint blue glow (often invisible in sunlight or brightly lit work areas) from garnet abrasive.\n\nCleaning operations using abrasive blasting can present risks for workers' health and safety, specifically in portable air blasting or blast room (booth) applications. There is a large amount of dust created through abrasive blasting from the substrate and abrasive. Although many abrasives used in blasting rooms are not hazardous in themselves, (steel shot and grit, cast iron, aluminum oxide, garnet, plastic abrasive and glass bead), other abrasives (silica sand, copper slag, nickel slag, and staurolite) have varying degrees of hazard (typically free silica or heavy metals). However, in all cases their use can present serious danger to operators, such as burns due to projections (with skin or eye lesions), falls due to walking on round shot scattered on the ground, exposure to hazardous dusts, heat exhaustion, creation of an explosive atmosphere, and exposure to excessive noise. Blasting rooms and portable blaster's equipment have been adapted to these dangers. Blasting lead-based paint can fill the air with lead particles which can be harmful to the nervous system.\n\nIn the US the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) mandates engineered solutions to potential hazards, however silica sand continues to be allowed even though most commonly used blast helmets are not sufficiently effective at protecting the blast operator if ambient levels of dust exceed allowable limits. Adequate levels of respiratory protection for blast operations in the United States is approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).\n\nTypical safety equipment for operators includes:\n\nIn the past, when sandblasting was performed as an open-air job, the worker was exposed to risk of injury from the flying material and lung damage from inhaling the dust. The silica dust produced in the sandblasting process would cause silicosis after sustained inhalation of the dust. In 1918, the first sandblasting enclosure was built, which protected the worker with a viewing screen, revolved around the workpiece, and used an exhaust fan to draw dust away from the worker's face. Silicosis is still a risk when the operator is not completely isolated from the sandblasting apparatus.\n\nSandblasting also may present secondary risks, such as falls from scaffolding or confinement in a small space. Carbon monoxide poisoning is another potential risk, from the use of small gasoline-powered engines in abrasive blasting.\n\nSeveral countries and territories now regulate sandblasting such that it may only be performed in a controlled environment using ventilation, protective clothing and breathing air supply.\n\nMany consumers are willing to pay extra for jeans that have the appearance of being used. To give the fabrics the right worn look sandblasting is used. Sandblasting has the risk of causing silicosis to the workers, and in Turkey, more than 5,000 workers in the textile industry suffer from silicosis, and 46 people are known to have died from it. Silicosis was shown to be very common among former denim sandblasters in Turkey in 2007. A 2015 study confirmed that silicosis is almost inevitable among former sandblasters. Sweden's Fair Trade Center conducted a survey among 17 textile companies that showed very few were aware of the dangers caused by manually sandblasting jeans. Several companies said they would abolish this technique from their own production.\n\nIn 2013, research claimed that in China some factories producing worn-look jeans are involved in varied non-compliance with health and safety regulations.\n\nThe lettering and engraving on most modern cemetery monuments and markers is created by abrasive blasting.\n\nSandblasting can also be used to produce three-dimensional signage. This type of signage is considered to be a higher-end product as compared to flat signs. These signs often incorporate gold leaf overlay and sometimes crushed glass backgrounds which is called smalts. When sandblasting wood signage it allows the wood grains to show and the growth rings to be raised, and is a popular way to give a sign a traditional carved look. Sandblasting can also be done on clear acrylic glass and glazing as part of a store front or interior design.\n\nSandblasting can be used to refurbish buildings or create works of art (carved or frosted glass). Modern masks and resists facilitate this process, producing accurate results.\n\nSandblasting techniques are used for cleaning boat hulls, as well as brick, stone, and concrete work. Sandblasting is used for cleaning industrial as well as commercial structures, but is rarely used for non-metallic workpieces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627", "title": "Agriculture", "text": "Agriculture\n\nAgriculture is the cultivation of land and breeding of animals and plants to provide food, fiber, medicinal plants and other products to sustain and enhance life. Agriculture was the key development in the rise of sedentary human civilization, whereby farming of domesticated species created food surpluses that enabled people to live in cities. The study of agriculture is known as agricultural science. The history of agriculture dates back thousands of years; people gathered wild grains at least 105,000 years ago and began to plant them around 11,500 years ago before they became domesticated. Pigs, sheep, and cattle were domesticated over 10,000 years ago. Crops originate from at least 11 regions of the world. Industrial agriculture based on large-scale monoculture has in the past century come to dominate agricultural output, though about 2 billion people worldwide still depend on subsistence agriculture.\n\nModern agronomy, plant breeding, agrochemicals such as pesticides and fertilizers, and technological developments have sharply increased yields from cultivation, but at the same time have caused widespread ecological and environmental damage. Selective breeding and modern practices in animal husbandry have similarly increased the output of meat, but have raised concerns about animal welfare and environmental damage through contributions to global warming, depletion of aquifers, deforestation, antibiotic resistance, and growth hormones in industrially produced meat. Genetically modified organisms are widely used, although they are banned in several countries.\n\nThe major agricultural products can be broadly grouped into foods, fibers, fuels, and raw materials (such as rubber). Classes of foods include cereals (grains), vegetables, fruits, oils, meat, milk, fungi and eggs. Over one-third of the world's workers are employed in agriculture, second only to the service sector, although the number of agricultural workers in developed countries has decreased significantly over the past several centuries.\n\nThe word \"agriculture\" is a late Middle English adaptation of Latin \"agricultūra\", from \"ager\", \"field\", which in its turn came from Greek αγρός, and \"cultūra\", \"cultivation\" or \"growing\". Agriculture usually refers to human activities, although it is also observed in certain species of ant, termite and ambrosia beetle. Agriculture is defined with varying scopes, in its broadest sense using natural resources to \"produce commodities which maintain life, including food, fiber, forest products, horticultural crops, and their related services\". Thus defined, it includes arable farming, horticulture, animal husbandry, and forestry, but horticulture and forestry are in practice often excluded.\n\nThe development of agriculture enabled the human population to grow many times larger than could be sustained by hunting and gathering. Agriculture began independently in different parts of the globe, and included a diverse range of taxa. At least 11 separate regions of the Old and New World were involved as independent centers of origin. Wild grains were collected and eaten from at least 105,000 years ago. From around 11,500 years ago, the eight Neolithic founder crops, emmer and einkorn wheat, hulled barley, peas, lentils, bitter vetch, chick peas and flax were cultivated in the Levant. Rice was domesticated in China between 11,500 and 6,200 BC with earliest known cultivation from 5,700 BC, followed by mung, soy and azuki beans. Sheep were domesticated in Mesopotamia between 13,000 and 11,000 years ago. Cattle were domesticated from the wild aurochs in the areas of modern Turkey and Pakistan some 10,500 years ago. Domestic pigs had multiple centres of origin in Eurasia, including Europe, East Asia and Southwest Asia, where wild boar were first domesticated about 10,500 years ago. In the Andes of South America, the potato was domesticated between 10,000 and 7,000 years ago, along with beans, coca, llamas, alpacas, and guinea pigs. Sugarcane and some root vegetables were domesticated in New Guinea around 9,000 years ago. Sorghum was domesticated in the Sahel region of Africa by 7,000 years ago. Cotton was domesticated in Peru by 5,600 years ago, and was independently domesticated in Eurasia. In Mesoamerica, wild teosinte was domesticated to maize by 6,000 years ago.\nScholars have developed a number of hypotheses to explain the historical origins of agriculture. Studies of the transition from hunter-gatherer to agricultural societies indicate an initial period of intensification and increasing sedentism; examples are the Natufian culture in the Levant, and the Early Chinese Neolithic in China. Then, wild stands that had previously been harvested started to be planted, and gradually came to be domesticated.\n\nIn Eurasia, the Sumerians started to live in villages from about 8,000 BC, relying on the Tigris and Euphrates rivers and a canal system for irrigation. Ploughs appear in pictographs around 3,000 BC; seed-ploughs around 2,300 BC. Farmers grew wheat, barley, vegetables such as lentils and onions, and fruits including dates, grapes, and figs. Ancient Egyptian agriculture relied on the Nile River and its seasonal flooding. Farming started in the predynastic period at the end of the Paleolithic, after 10,000 BC. Staple food crops were grains such as wheat and barley, alongside industrial crops such as flax and papyrus. In India, wheat, barley, and jujube were domesticated by 9,000 BC, soon followed by sheep and goats. Cattle, sheep and goats were domesticated in Mehrgarh culture by 8,000–6,000 BC. Cotton was cultivated by the 5th-4th millennium BC. There is archeological evidence of an animal-drawn plough from 2,500 BC in the Indus Valley Civilization.\nIn China, from the 5th century BC there was a nationwide granary system and widespread silk farming. Water-powered grain mills were in use by the 1st century BC, followed by irrigation. By the late 2nd century, heavy ploughs had been developed with iron ploughshares and mouldboards. These slowly spread westwards across Eurasia. Asian rice was domesticated 8,200–13,500 years ago – depending on the molecular clock estimate that is used – on the Pearl River in southern China with a single genetic origin from the wild rice \"Oryza rufipogon\". In ancient Greece and Rome, the major cereals were wheat, emmer, and barley, alongside vegetables including peas, beans, and olives. Sheep and goats were kept mainly for dairy products.\n\nIn the Americas, crops domesticated in Mesoamerica (apart from teosinte) include squash, beans, and cocoa. Cocoa was being domesticated by the Mayo Chinchipe of the upper Amazon around 3,000 BC.\nThe turkey was probably domesticated in Mexico or the American Southwest. The Aztecs developed irrigation systems, formed terraced hillsides, fertilized their soil, and developed chinampas or artificial islands. The Mayas used extensive canal and raised field systems to farm swampland from 400 BC. Coca was domesticated in the Andes, as were the peanut, tomato, tobacco, and pineapple. Cotton was domesticated in Peru by 3,600 BC. Animals, too, including llamas, alpacas, and guinea pigs were domesticated in the region. In North America, the indigenous people of the East domesticated crops such as sunflower, tobacco, squash and \"Chenopodium\". Wild foods including wild rice and maple sugar were harvested. The domesticated strawberry is a hybrid of a Chilean and a North American species, developed by breeding in Europe and North America. The indigenous people of the Southwest and the Pacific Northwest practiced forest gardening and fire-stick farming. The natives controlled fire on a regional scale to create a low-intensity fire ecology which sustained a low-density agriculture in loose rotation; a sort of \"wild\" permaculture. A system of companion planting called the Three Sisters was developed on the Great Plains, the three crops being winter squash, maize, and climbing beans.\n\nIndigenous Australians, long supposed to have been nomadic hunter-gatherers, practised systematic burning to enhance natural productivity in fire-stick farming. The Gunditjmara and other groups developed eel farming and fish trapping systems from some 5,000 years ago. There is evidence of 'intensification' across the whole continent over that period. In two regions of Australia, the central west coast and eastern central Australia, early agriculture with crops of yams, native millet, and bush onions may have been practised in permanent settlements.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, both in the Islamic world and in Europe, agriculture was transformed with improved techniques and the diffusion of crop plants, including the introduction of sugar, rice, cotton and fruit trees such as the orange to Europe by way of Al-Andalus. After 1492, the Columbian exchange brought New World crops such as maize, potatoes, tomatoes, sweet potatoes and manioc to Europe, and Old World crops such as wheat, barley, rice and turnips, and livestock including horses, cattle, sheep and goats to the Americas.\nIrrigation, crop rotation, and fertilizers were greatly developed in the past 200 years, starting with the British Agricultural Revolution, allowing global population to rise significantly. Since 1900, agriculture in the developed nations, and to a lesser extent in the developing world, has seen large rises in productivity as human labor has been replaced by mechanization, and assisted by synthetic fertilizers, pesticides, and selective breeding. The Haber-Bosch method allowed the synthesis of ammonium nitrate fertilizer on an industrial scale, greatly increasing crop yields and sustaining a further increase in global population. Modern agriculture has raised political issues including water pollution, biofuels, genetically modified organisms, tariffs and farm subsidies, leading to alternative approaches such as the organic movement.\n\nPastoralism involves managing domesticated animals. In nomadic pastoralism, herds of livestock are moved from place to place in search of pasture, fodder, and water. This type of farming is practised in arid and semi-arid regions of Sahara, Central Asia and some parts of India.\n\nIn shifting cultivation, a small area of a forest is cleared by cutting down all the trees and the area is burned. The land is then used for growing crops for several years. When the soil becomes less fertile, the area is then abandoned. Another patch of land is selected and the process is repeated. This type of farming is practiced mainly in areas with abundant rainfall where the forest regenerates quickly. This practice is used in Northeast India, Southeast Asia, and the Amazon Basin.\n\nSubsistence farming is practiced to satisfy family or local needs alone, with little left over for transport elsewhere. It is intensively practiced in Monsoon Asia and South-East Asia. If the typical subsistence farmer is equivalent to a smallholder, then there are an estimated 2.5 billion such farmers in 2018, cultivating about 60% of the earth's arable land.\n\nIn intensive farming, the crops are cultivated to maximise profit, with a low fallow ratio and a high use of inputs. This type of farming is practiced mainly in highly developed countries.\n\nIn the past century, agriculture has been characterized by increased productivity, the substitution of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides for labor, water pollution, and farm subsidies. In recent years there has been a backlash against the environmental effects of conventional agriculture, resulting in the organic, regenerative, and sustainable agriculture movements. One of the major forces behind this movement has been the European Union, which first certified organic food in 1991 and began reform of its Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) in 2005 to phase out commodity-linked farm subsidies, also known as decoupling. The growth of organic farming has renewed research in alternative technologies such as integrated pest management, selective breeding, and controlled-environment agriculture. Recent mainstream technological developments include genetically modified food. Demand for non-food biofuel crops, development of former farm lands, rising transportation costs, climate change, growing consumer demand in China and India, and population growth, are threatening food security in many parts of the world. The International Fund for Agricultural Development posits that an increase in smallholder agriculture may be part of the solution to concerns about food prices and overall food security, given the favorable experience of Vietnam. Soil degradation and diseases such as stem rust are major concerns globally; approximately 40% of the world's agricultural land is seriously degraded. By 2015, the agricultural output of China was the largest in the world, followed by the European Union, India and the United States. Economists measure the total factor productivity of agriculture and by this measure agriculture in the United States is roughly 1.7 times more productive than it was in 1948.\n\nFollowing the three-sector theory, the number of people employed in agriculture and other primary activities (such as fishing) can be more than 80% in the least developed countries, and less than 2% in the most highly developed countries. Since the Industrial Revolution, many countries have made the transition to developed economies, and the proportion of people working in agriculture has steadily fallen. During the 16th century in Europe, for example, between 55 and 75% of the population was engaged in agriculture; by the 19th century, this had dropped to between 35 and 65%. In the same countries today, the figure is less than 10%.\nAt the start of the 21st century, some one billion people, or over 1/3 of the available work force, were employed in agriculture. It constitutes approximately 70% of the global employment of children, and in many countries employs the largest percentage of women of any industry. The service sector overtook the agricultural sector as the largest global employer in 2007.\n\nAgriculture, specifically farming, remains a hazardous industry, and farmers worldwide remain at high risk of work-related injuries, lung disease, noise-induced hearing loss, skin diseases, as well as certain cancers related to chemical use and prolonged sun exposure. On industrialized farms, injuries frequently involve the use of agricultural machinery, and a common cause of fatal agricultural injuries in developed countries is tractor rollovers. Pesticides and other chemicals used in farming can also be hazardous to worker health, and workers exposed to pesticides may experience illness or have children with birth defects. As an industry in which families commonly share in work and live on the farm itself, entire families can be at risk for injuries, illness, and death. Ages 0–6 may be an especially vulnerable population in agriculture; common causes of fatal injuries among young farm workers include drowning, machinery and motor accidents, including with all-terrain vehicles.\n\nThe International Labour Organization considers agriculture \"one of the most hazardous of all economic sectors\". It estimates that the annual work-related death toll among agricultural employees is at least 170,000, twice the average rate of other jobs. In addition, incidences of death, injury and illness related to agricultural activities often go unreported. The organization has developed the Safety and Health in Agriculture Convention, 2001, which covers the range of risks in the agriculture occupation, the prevention of these risks and the role that individuals and organizations engaged in agriculture should play.\n\nIn America, agriculture has been identified by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health as a priority industry sector in the National Occupational Research Agenda to identify and provide intervention strategies for occupational health and safety issues.\nIn the European Union, the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work has issued guidelines on implementing health and safety directives in agriculture, livestock farming, horticulture, and forestry.\n\nOverall production varies by country as listed.\n\nCropping systems vary among farms depending on the available resources and constraints; geography and climate of the farm; government policy; economic, social and political pressures; and the philosophy and culture of the farmer.\n\nShifting cultivation (or slash and burn) is a system in which forests are burnt, releasing nutrients to support cultivation of annual and then perennial crops for a period of several years. Then the plot is left fallow to regrow forest, and the farmer moves to a new plot, returning after many more years (10–20). This fallow period is shortened if population density grows, requiring the input of nutrients (fertilizer or manure) and some manual pest control. Annual cultivation is the next phase of intensity in which there is no fallow period. This requires even greater nutrient and pest control inputs.\n\nFurther industrialization led to the use of monocultures, when one cultivar is planted on a large acreage. Because of the low biodiversity, nutrient use is uniform and pests tend to build up, necessitating the greater use of pesticides and fertilizers. Multiple cropping, in which several crops are grown sequentially in one year, and intercropping, when several crops are grown at the same time, are other kinds of annual cropping systems known as polycultures.\n\nIn subtropical and arid environments, the timing and extent of agriculture may be limited by rainfall, either not allowing multiple annual crops in a year, or requiring irrigation. In all of these environments perennial crops are grown (coffee, chocolate) and systems are practiced such as agroforestry. In temperate environments, where ecosystems were predominantly grassland or prairie, highly productive annual farming is the dominant agricultural system.\n\nImportant categories of food crops include cereals, legumes, forage, fruits and vegetables. Natural fibers include cotton, wool, hemp, silk and flax. Specific crops are cultivated in distinct growing regions throughout the world. Production is listed in millions of metric tons, based on FAO estimates.\n\nAnimal husbandry is the breeding and raising of animals for meat, milk, eggs, or wool), and for work and transport. Working animals, including horses, mules, oxen, water buffalo, camels, llamas, alpacas, donkeys, and dogs, have for centuries been used to help cultivate fields, harvest crops, wrangle other animals, and transport farm products to buyers.\n\nLivestock production systems can be defined based on feed source, as grassland-based, mixed, and landless. , 30% of Earth's ice- and water-free area was used for producing livestock, with the sector employing approximately 1.3 billion people. Between the 1960s and the 2000s, there was a significant increase in livestock production, both by numbers and by carcass weight, especially among beef, pigs and chickens, the latter of which had production increased by almost a factor of 10. Non-meat animals, such as milk cows and egg-producing chickens, also showed significant production increases. Global cattle, sheep and goat populations are expected to continue to increase sharply through 2050. Aquaculture or fish farming, the production of fish for human consumption in confined operations, is one of the fastest growing sectors of food production, growing at an average of 9% a year between 1975 and 2007.\n\nDuring the second half of the 20th century, producers using selective breeding focused on creating livestock breeds and crossbreeds that increased production, while mostly disregarding the need to preserve genetic diversity. This trend has led to a significant decrease in genetic diversity and resources among livestock breeds, leading to a corresponding decrease in disease resistance and local adaptations previously found among traditional breeds.\n\nGrassland based livestock production relies upon plant material such as shrubland, rangeland, and pastures for feeding ruminant animals. Outside nutrient inputs may be used, however manure is returned directly to the grassland as a major nutrient source. This system is particularly important in areas where crop production is not feasible because of climate or soil, representing 30–40 million pastoralists. Mixed production systems use grassland, fodder crops and grain feed crops as feed for ruminant and monogastric (one stomach; mainly chickens and pigs) livestock. Manure is typically recycled in mixed systems as a fertilizer for crops.\n\nLandless systems rely upon feed from outside the farm, representing the de-linking of crop and livestock production found more prevalently in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development member countries. Synthetic fertilizers are more heavily relied upon for crop production and manure utilization becomes a challenge as well as a source for pollution. Industrialized countries use these operations to produce much of the global supplies of poultry and pork. Scientists estimate that 75% of the growth in livestock production between 2003 and 2030 will be in confined animal feeding operations, sometimes called factory farming. Much of this growth is happening in developing countries in Asia, with much smaller amounts of growth in Africa. Some of the practices used in commercial livestock production, including the usage of growth hormones, are controversial.\n\nTillage is the practice of breaking up the soil with tools such as the plow or harrow to prepare for planting, for nutrient incorporation, or for pest control. Tillage varies in intensity from conventional to no-till. It may improve productivity by warming the soil, incorporating fertilizer and controlling weeds, but also renders soil more prone to erosion, triggers the decomposition of organic matter releasing CO, and reduces the abundance and diversity of soil organisms.\n\nPest control includes the management of weeds, insects, mites, and diseases. Chemical (pesticides), biological (biocontrol), mechanical (tillage), and cultural practices are used. Cultural practices include crop rotation, culling, cover crops, intercropping, composting, avoidance, and resistance. Integrated pest management attempts to use all of these methods to keep pest populations below the number which would cause economic loss, and recommends pesticides as a last resort.\n\nNutrient management includes both the source of nutrient inputs for crop and livestock production, and the method of utilization of manure produced by livestock. Nutrient inputs can be chemical inorganic fertilizers, manure, green manure, compost and minerals. Crop nutrient use may also be managed using cultural techniques such as crop rotation or a fallow period. Manure is used either by holding livestock where the feed crop is growing, such as in managed intensive rotational grazing, or by spreading either dry or liquid formulations of manure on cropland or pastures.\n\nWater management is needed where rainfall is insufficient or variable, which occurs to some degree in most regions of the world. Some farmers use irrigation to supplement rainfall. In other areas such as the Great Plains in the U.S. and Canada, farmers use a fallow year to conserve soil moisture to use for growing a crop in the following year. Agriculture represents 70% of freshwater use worldwide.\n\nAccording to a report by the International Food Policy Research Institute, agricultural technologies will have the greatest impact on food production if adopted in combination with each other; using a model that assessed how eleven technologies could impact agricultural productivity, food security and trade by 2050, the International Food Policy Research Institute found that the number of people at risk from hunger could be reduced by as much as 40% and food prices could be reduced by almost half.\n\nPayment for ecosystem services is a method of providing additional incentives to encourage farmers to conserve some aspects of the environment. Measures might include paying for reforestation upstream of a city, to improve the supply of fresh water.\n\nCrop alteration has been practiced by humankind for thousands of years, since the beginning of civilization. Altering crops through breeding practices changes the genetic make-up of a plant to develop crops with more beneficial characteristics for humans, for example, larger fruits or seeds, drought-tolerance, or resistance to pests. Significant advances in plant breeding ensued after the work of geneticist Gregor Mendel. His work on dominant and recessive alleles, although initially largely ignored for almost 50 years, gave plant breeders a better understanding of genetics and breeding techniques. Crop breeding includes techniques such as plant selection with desirable traits, self-pollination and cross-pollination, and molecular techniques that genetically modify the organism.\n\nDomestication of plants has, over the centuries increased yield, improved disease resistance and drought tolerance, eased harvest and improved the taste and nutritional value of crop plants. Careful selection and breeding have had enormous effects on the characteristics of crop plants. Plant selection and breeding in the 1920s and 1930s improved pasture (grasses and clover) in New Zealand. Extensive X-ray and ultraviolet induced mutagenesis efforts (i.e. primitive genetic engineering) during the 1950s produced the modern commercial varieties of grains such as wheat, corn (maize) and barley.\n\nThe Green Revolution popularized the use of conventional hybridization to sharply increase yield by creating \"high-yielding varieties\". For example, average yields of corn (maize) in the US have increased from around 2.5 tons per hectare (t/ha) (40 bushels per acre) in 1900 to about 9.4 t/ha (150 bushels per acre) in 2001. Similarly, worldwide average wheat yields have increased from less than 1 t/ha in 1900 to more than 2.5 t/ha in 1990. South American average wheat yields are around 2 t/ha, African under 1 t/ha, and Egypt and Arabia up to 3.5 to 4 t/ha with irrigation. In contrast, the average wheat yield in countries such as France is over 8 t/ha. Variations in yields are due mainly to variation in climate, genetics, and the level of intensive farming techniques (use of fertilizers, chemical pest control, growth control to avoid lodging).\n\nGenetically modified organisms (GMO) are organisms whose genetic material has been altered by genetic engineering techniques generally known as recombinant DNA technology. Genetic engineering has expanded the genes available to breeders to utilize in creating desired germlines for new crops. Increased durability, nutritional content, insect and virus resistance and herbicide tolerance are a few of the attributes bred into crops through genetic engineering. For some, GMO crops cause food safety and food labeling concerns. Numerous countries have placed restrictions on the production, import or use of GMO foods and crops. Currently a global treaty, the Biosafety Protocol, regulates the trade of GMOs. There is ongoing discussion regarding the labeling of foods made from GMOs, and while the EU currently requires all GMO foods to be labeled, the US does not.\n\nHerbicide-resistant seed has a gene implanted into its genome that allows the plants to tolerate exposure to herbicides, including glyphosate. These seeds allow the farmer to grow a crop that can be sprayed with herbicides to control weeds without harming the resistant crop. Herbicide-tolerant crops are used by farmers worldwide. With the increasing use of herbicide-tolerant crops, comes an increase in the use of glyphosate-based herbicide sprays. In some areas glyphosate resistant weeds have developed, causing farmers to switch to other herbicides. Some studies also link widespread glyphosate usage to iron deficiencies in some crops, which is both a crop production and a nutritional quality concern, with potential economic and health implications.\n\nOther GMO crops used by growers include insect-resistant crops, which have a gene from the soil bacterium \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" (Bt), which produces a toxin specific to insects. These crops resist damage by insects. Some believe that similar or better pest-resistance traits can be acquired through traditional breeding practices, and resistance to various pests can be gained through hybridization or cross-pollination with wild species. In some cases, wild species are the primary source of resistance traits; some tomato cultivars that have gained resistance to at least 19 diseases did so through crossing with wild populations of tomatoes.\n\nAgriculture imposes multiple external costs upon society through effects such as pesticide damage to nature (especially herbicides and insecticides), nutrient runoff, excessive water usage, and loss of natural environment. A 2000 assessment of agriculture in the UK determined total external costs for 1996 of £2,343 million, or £208 per hectare. A 2005 analysis of these costs in the US concluded that cropland imposes approximately $5 to $16 billion ($30 to $96 per hectare), while livestock production imposes $714 million. Both studies, which focused solely on the fiscal impacts, concluded that more should be done to internalize external costs. Neither included subsidies in their analysis, but they noted that subsidies also influence the cost of agriculture to society.\n\nAgriculture seeks to increase yield and to reduce costs. Yield increases with inputs such as fertilisers and removal of pathogens, predators, and competitors (such as weeds). Costs decrease with increasing scale of farm units, such as making fields larger; this means removing hedges, ditches and other areas of habitat. Pesticides kill insects, plants and fungi. These and other measures have cut biodiversity to very low levels on intensively farmed land.\n\nIn 2010, the International Resource Panel of the United Nations Environment Programme assessed the environmental impacts of consumption and production. It found that agriculture and food consumption are two of the most important drivers of environmental pressures, particularly habitat change, climate change, water use and toxic emissions. Agriculture is the main source of toxins released into the environment, including insecticides, especially those used on cotton. The 2011 UNEP Green Economy report states that \"[a]gricultural operations, excluding land use changes, produce approximately 13 per cent of anthropogenic global GHG emissions. This includes GHGs emitted by the use of inorganic fertilisers agro-chemical pesticides and herbicides; (GHG emissions resulting from production of these inputs are included in industrial emissions); and fossil fuel-energy inputs. \"On average we find that the total amount of fresh residues from agricultural and forestry production for second- generation biofuel production amounts to 3.8 billion tonnes per year between 2011 and 2050 (with an average annual growth rate of 11 per cent throughout the period analysed, accounting for higher growth during early years, 48 per cent for 2011–2020 and an average 2 per cent annual expansion after 2020).\"\nA senior UN official and co-author of a UN report detailing this problem, Henning Steinfeld, said \"Livestock are one of the most significant contributors to today's most serious environmental problems\". Livestock production occupies 70% of all land used for agriculture, or 30% of the land surface of the planet. It is one of the largest sources of greenhouse gases, responsible for 18% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions as measured in CO equivalents. By comparison, all transportation emits 13.5% of the CO. It produces 65% of human-related nitrous oxide (which has 296 times the global warming potential of CO) and 37% of all human-induced methane (which is 23 times as warming as CO.) It also generates 64% of the ammonia emission. Livestock expansion is cited as a key factor driving deforestation; in the Amazon basin 70% of previously forested area is now occupied by pastures and the remainder used for feedcrops. Through deforestation and land degradation, livestock is also driving reductions in biodiversity. Furthermore, the UNEP states that \"methane emissions from global livestock are projected to increase by 60 per cent by 2030 under current practices and consumption patterns.\"\n\nLand transformation, the use of land to yield goods and services, is the most substantial way humans alter the Earth's ecosystems, and is considered the driving force in the loss of biodiversity. Estimates of the amount of land transformed by humans vary from 39 to 50%. Land degradation, the long-term decline in ecosystem function and productivity, is estimated to be occurring on 24% of land worldwide, with cropland overrepresented. The UN-FAO report cites land management as the driving factor behind degradation and reports that 1.5 billion people rely upon the degrading land. Degradation can be deforestation, desertification, soil erosion, mineral depletion, or chemical degradation (acidification and salinization).\n\nEutrophication, excessive nutrients in aquatic ecosystems resulting in algal blooms and anoxia, leads to fish kills, loss of biodiversity, and renders water unfit for drinking and other industrial uses. Excessive fertilization and manure application to cropland, as well as high livestock stocking densities cause nutrient (mainly nitrogen and phosphorus) runoff and leaching from agricultural land. These nutrients are major nonpoint pollutants contributing to eutrophication of aquatic ecosystems and pollution of groundwater, with harmful effects on human populations. Fertilisers also reduce terrestrial biodiversity by increasing competition for light, favouring those species that are able to benefit from the added nutrients.\nAgriculture accounts for 70 percent of withdrawals of freshwater resources. Agriculture is a major draw on water from aquifers, and currently draws from those underground water sources at an unsustainable rate. It is long known that aquifers in areas as diverse as northern China, the Upper Ganges and the western US are being depleted, and new research extends these problems to aquifers in Iran, Mexico and Saudi Arabia. Increasing pressure is being placed on water resources by industry and urban areas, meaning that water scarcity is increasing and agriculture is facing the challenge of producing more food for the world's growing population with reduced water resources. Agricultural water usage can also cause major environmental problems, including the destruction of natural wetlands, the spread of water-borne diseases, and land degradation through salinization and waterlogging, when irrigation is performed incorrectly.\n\nPesticide use has increased since 1950 to 2.5million short tons annually worldwide, yet crop loss from pests has remained relatively constant. The World Health Organization estimated in 1992 that three million pesticide poisonings occur annually, causing 220,000 deaths. Pesticides select for pesticide resistance in the pest population, leading to a condition termed the \"pesticide treadmill\" in which pest resistance warrants the development of a new pesticide.\n\nAn alternative argument is that the way to \"save the environment\" and prevent famine is by using pesticides and intensive high yield farming, a view exemplified by a quote heading the Center for Global Food Issues website: 'Growing more per acre leaves more land for nature'. However, critics argue that a trade-off between the environment and a need for food is not inevitable, and that pesticides simply replace good agronomic practices such as crop rotation. The Push–pull agricultural pest management technique involves intercropping, using plant aromas to repel pests from crops (push) and to lure them to a place from which they can then be removed (pull).\n\nGlobal warming and agriculture are interrelated on a global scale. Global warming affects agriculture through changes in average temperatures, rainfall, and weather extremes (like storms and heat waves); changes in pests and diseases; changes in atmospheric carbon dioxide and ground-level ozone concentrations; changes in the nutritional quality of some foods; and changes in sea level. Global warming is already affecting agriculture, with effects unevenly distributed across the world. Future climate change will probably negatively affect crop production in low latitude countries, while effects in northern latitudes may be positive or negative. Global warming will probably increase the risk of food insecurity for some vulnerable groups, such as the poor.\n\nAnimal husbandry is also responsible for greenhouse gas production of and a percentage of the world's methane, and future land infertility, and the displacement of wildlife. Agriculture contributes to climate change by anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases, and by the conversion of non-agricultural land such as forest for agricultural use. Agriculture, forestry and land-use change contributed around 20 to 25% to global annual emissions in 2010. A range of policies can reduce the risk of negative climate change impacts on agriculture, and greenhouse gas emissions from the agriculture sector.\n\nCurrent farming methods have resulted in over-stretched water resources, high levels of erosion and reduced soil fertility. There is not enough water to continue farming using current practices; therefore how critical water, land, and ecosystem resources are used to boost crop yields must be reconsidered. A solution would be to give value to ecosystems, recognizing environmental and livelihood tradeoffs, and balancing the rights of a variety of users and interests. Inequities that result when such measures are adopted would need to be addressed, such as the reallocation of water from poor to rich, the clearing of land to make way for more productive farmland, or the preservation of a wetland system that limits fishing rights.\n\nTechnological advancements help provide farmers with tools and resources to make farming more sustainable. Technology permits innovations like conservation tillage, a farming process which helps prevent land loss to erosion, reduces water pollution, and enhances carbon sequestration.\n\nAccording to a report by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), agricultural technologies will have the greatest impact on food production if adopted in combination with each other; using a model that assessed how eleven technologies could impact agricultural productivity, food security and trade by 2050, IFPRI found that the number of people at risk from hunger could be reduced by as much as 40% and food prices could be reduced by almost half. The caloric demand of Earth's projected population, with current climate change predictions, can be satisfied by additional improvement of agricultural methods, expansion of agricultural areas, and a sustainability-oriented consumer mindset.\n\nSince the 1940s, agricultural productivity has increased dramatically, due largely to the increased use of energy-intensive mechanization, fertilizers and pesticides. The vast majority of this energy input comes from fossil fuel sources. Between the 1960s and the 1980s, the Green Revolution transformed agriculture around the globe, with world grain production increasing significantly (between 70% and 390% for wheat and 60% to 150% for rice, depending on geographic area) as world population doubled. Heavy reliance on petrochemicals has raised concerns that oil shortages could increase costs and reduce agricultural output.\n\nIndustrialized agriculture depends on fossil fuels in two fundamental ways: direct consumption on the farm and manufacture of inputs used on the farm. Direct consumption includes the use of lubricants and fuels to operate farm vehicles and machinery.\n\nIndirect consumption includes the manufacture of fertilizers, pesticides, and farm machinery. In particular, the production of nitrogen fertilizer can account for over half of agricultural energy usage. Together, direct and indirect consumption by US farms accounts for about 2% of the nation's energy use. Direct and indirect energy consumption by U.S. farms peaked in 1979, and has since gradually declined. Food systems encompass not just agriculture but off-farm processing, packaging, transporting, marketing, consumption, and disposal of food and food-related items. Agriculture accounts for less than one-fifth of food system energy use in the US.\n\nAgricultural economics refers to economics as it relates to the \"production, distribution and consumption of [agricultural] goods and services\". Combining agricultural production with general theories of marketing and business as a discipline of study began in the late 1800s, and grew significantly through the 20th century. Although the study of agricultural economics is relatively recent, major trends in agriculture have significantly affected national and international economies throughout history, ranging from tenant farmers and sharecropping in the post-American Civil War Southern United States to the European feudal system of manorialism. In the United States, and elsewhere, food costs attributed to food processing, distribution, and agricultural marketing, sometimes referred to as the value chain, have risen while the costs attributed to farming have declined. This is related to the greater efficiency of farming, combined with the increased level of value addition (e.g. more highly processed products) provided by the supply chain. Market concentration has increased in the sector as well, and although the total effect of the increased market concentration is likely increased efficiency, the changes redistribute economic surplus from producers (farmers) and consumers, and may have negative implications for rural communities.\n\nNational government policies can significantly change the economic marketplace for agricultural products, in the form of taxation, subsidies, tariffs and other measures. Since at least the 1960s, a combination of trade restrictions, exchange rate policies and subsidies have affected farmers in both the developing and the developed world. In the 1980s, non-subsidized farmers in developing countries experienced adverse effects from national policies that created artificially low global prices for farm products. Between the mid-1980s and the early 2000s, several international agreements limited agricultural tariffs, subsidies and other trade restrictions.\n\nHowever, , there was still a significant amount of policy-driven distortion in global agricultural product prices. The three agricultural products with the greatest amount of trade distortion were sugar, milk and rice, mainly due to taxation. Among the oilseeds, sesame had the greatest amount of taxation, but overall, feed grains and oilseeds had much lower levels of taxation than livestock products. Since the 1980s, policy-driven distortions have seen a greater decrease among livestock products than crops during the worldwide reforms in agricultural policy. Despite this progress, certain crops, such as cotton, still see subsidies in developed countries artificially deflating global prices, causing hardship in developing countries with non-subsidized farmers. Unprocessed commodities such as corn, soybeans, and cattle are generally graded to indicate quality, affecting the price the producer receives. Commodities are generally reported by production quantities, such as volume, number or weight.\n\nAgricultural science is a broad multidisciplinary field of biology that encompasses the parts of exact, natural, economic and social sciences used in the practice and understanding of agriculture. It covers topics such as agronomy, plant breeding and genetics, plant pathology, crop modelling, soil science, entomology, production techniques and improvement, study of pests and their management, and study of adverse environmental effects such as soil degradation, waste management, and bioremediation.\n\nThe scientific study of agriculture began in the 18th century, when Johann Friedrich Mayer conducted experiments on the use of gypsum (hydrated calcium sulphate) as a fertilizer. Research became more systematic when in 1843, John Lawes and Henry Gilbert began a set of long-term agronomy field experiments at Rothamsted Research Station in England; some of them, such as the Park Grass Experiment, are still running. In America, the Hatch Act of 1887 provided funding for what it was the first to call \"agricultural science\", driven by farmers' interest in fertilizers. In agricultural entomology, the USDA began to research biological control in 1881; it instituted its first large program in 1905, searching Europe and Japan for natural enemies of the gypsy moth and brown-tail moth, establishing parasitoids (such as solitary wasps) and predators of both pests in the USA.\n\nAgricultural policy is the set of government decisions and actions relating to domestic agriculture and imports of foreign agricultural products. Governments usually implement agricultural policies with the goal of achieving a specific outcome in the domestic agricultural product markets. Some overarching themes include risk management and adjustment (including policies related to climate change, food safety and natural disasters), economic stability (including policies related to taxes), natural resources and environmental sustainability (especially water policy), research and development, and market access for domestic commodities (including relations with global organizations and agreements with other countries). Agricultural policy can also touch on food quality, ensuring that the food supply is of a consistent and known quality, food security, ensuring that the food supply meets the population's needs, and conservation. Policy programs can range from financial programs, such as subsidies, to encouraging producers to enroll in voluntary quality assurance programs.\n\nThere are many influences on the creation of agricultural policy, including consumers, agribusiness, trade lobbies and other groups. Agribusiness interests hold a large amount of influence over policy making, in the form of lobbying and campaign contributions. Political action groups, including those interested in environmental issues and labor unions, also provide influence, as do lobbying organizations representing individual agricultural commodities. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) leads international efforts to defeat hunger and provides a forum for the negotiation of global agricultural regulations and agreements. Dr. Samuel Jutzi, director of FAO's animal production and health division, states that lobbying by large corporations has stopped reforms that would improve human health and the environment. For example, proposals in 2010 for a voluntary code of conduct for the livestock industry that would have provided incentives for improving standards for health, and environmental regulations, such as the number of animals an area of land can support without long-term damage, were successfully defeated due to large food company pressure.\n\n"}
{"id": "2191144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2191144", "title": "Australian Society of Viticulture and Oenology", "text": "Australian Society of Viticulture and Oenology\n\nBased in Glen Osmond, South Australia, the Australian Society of Viticulture and Oenology (ASVO) is a non-political organization that was founded in 1980 to serve the interests of practicing winemakers and viticulturists by encouraging the exchange of technical information. It publishes the \"Australian Journal of Grape and Wine Research\" and has over 1,300 individual and corporate members.\n\nThe organization's major objectives are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33260617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33260617", "title": "Aziz Akhannouch", "text": "Aziz Akhannouch\n\nAziz Akhannouch (Berber language: Ɛaziz Axennuc, ⵄⴰⵣⵉⵣ ⴰⵆⴻⵏⵏⵓⵛ; ; born 1961 in Tafraout) is a Chleuh-Berber Moroccan businessman and current Minister of Agriculture in Abdelilah Benkirane's cabinet since 2007.\n\nIn 1986, Akhannouch graduated from the Université de Sherbrooke with a management diploma.\n\nHe is the CEO of Akwa Group, a Moroccan conglomerate particularly active in the oil and gas sector. Forbes estimates his net worth as $1.4 billion as of November 2013. Akhannouch inherited Akwa from his father. In 2016, Akhannouch was tied for 28th position on Forbes's annual list of the world's wealthiest Arabs.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2007, Akhannouch was the president of the Souss-Massa-Drâa regional council. He was a member of the National Rally of Independents Party, before leaving it on 2 January 2012.\nOn 23 August 2013 he was appointed by King Mohammed VI as interim Minister of Finance on an interim basis after Istiqlal ministers resigned from Benkirane's cabinet, a position he kept until 9 October 2013.\nOn 29 October 2016, Akhannouch rejoined the RNI after being elected the president of the party. He took over Salaheddine Mezouar's position, who had resigned.\n\nOn 27 July 2016, Akhannouch met with Jonathan Pershing, Special Envoy for Climate Change for the United States. In their meeting, Akhannouch and Pershing spoke about preparations for the 2016 United Nations Conference of the Parties.\n\nHe is married to Salwa Idrissi, a businesswoman who owns a company active in malls and holds the Moroccan franchises for brands such as Gap, Zara and Galeries Lafayette.\n\n"}
{"id": "34855410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34855410", "title": "Biopeople", "text": "Biopeople\n\nBiopeople - Denmark's Life Science Cluster is a publicly funded partnership and National Center established, authorised, and funded by the Ministry for Science and Higher Education to improve innovation, collaboration and education within the National Danish Innovation System. Biopeople is established as a Center at the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences at University of Copenhagen.\n\nBiopeople was the first European cluster organisation within health and life sciences to receive the recognition of Gold Label of the European Cluster Excellence Initiative (ECEI).\n\nBiopeople helps academia and industry to co-create and develop ideas into new projects, products and services to benefit global health and welfare. Biopeople embraces and clusters universities, research organisations, and hospitals, the National Board of Health (Denmark) / Danish Health and Medical Authority, industry associations as well as pharma, medtech, medical device, food and biotech companies. The aim is to stimulate innovation through activities that bring researchers and stakeholders together across disciplines, sectors and public-private boundaries.\n\nBiopeople embeds all relevant Danish stakeholders. Biopeople is a Center at University of Copenhagen. Member Companies affiliate by in-kind means by participating in innovation activities and projects. Companies include major large companies - fx Novo Nordisk, Lundbeck, LEO Pharma, Danisco, Novozymes, and Chr. Hansen – and many small and medium enterprises.\n\nThe founding partners are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44561442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44561442", "title": "Bonnie Roupé", "text": "Bonnie Roupé\n\nBonnie Roupé, (simplified Chinese 柔向盈) is a Swedish-born international businesswoman and social entrepreneur, best known as the founder of Bonzun, a health company providing pregnant women and parents with unbiased evidence based medical information. Bonzun gives 15-20 million people in 35 of China's most deprived areas direct access to Internet and qualified maternal care. She is the innovator behind the Kexuema-app for blood testing that was launched together with the largest state owned hospitals in China, Beijing Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital. In 2004 she started a publishing house and founded the Swedish Golf Magazine for women, Red Tee, the first niched sports magazine for women. In 2005 she was named the most promising entrepreneur of the Year in Sweden and in 2012 she was listed as one of Sweden's super talents. She was rewarded Innovation Against Poverty by SIDA 2012 for Bonzun's work spreading medical information in the countryside in China. In 2001 and 2003 Bonnie sailed on around Svalbard and from Greenland to the United States, making her one of few people to cross the Arctic Sea, Greenland Sea, Labrador Sea and North Atlantic Ocean on a 47.7 feet sailboat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43738681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43738681", "title": "Business History (journal)", "text": "Business History (journal)\n\nBusiness History is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the field of business history. It was established in 1958 by Liverpool University Press and is now published by Taylor and Francis. The editor-in-chief is Ray Stokes (University of Glasgow).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2013 impact factor of 0.564.\n"}
{"id": "3787694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3787694", "title": "Business mileage reimbursement rate", "text": "Business mileage reimbursement rate\n\nThe business mileage reimbursement rate is an optional standard mileage rate used in the United States for purposes of computing the allowable business deduction, for Federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code, at , for the business use of a vehicle. Under the law, the taxpayer for each year is generally entitled to deduct either the actual expense amount, or an amount computed using the standard mileage rate, whichever is greater.\n\nThe business mileage reimbursement rate is also used by some employers for computing employee reimbursement amounts when an employee operates a motor vehicle not owned by the employer for the employer's business purposes. The General Services Administration (GSA) sets the rate for federal jobs. In general, the GSA rate matches the annual rate set by the IRS, although by law the government employee reimbursement rate cannot exceed the mileage rate set by the IRS for business deductions.\n\nReimbursement by an employer on a per-mile basis is also used in other countries; it offers a similar simplification to payment of subsistence per diem.\n\n"}
{"id": "27327454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27327454", "title": "Capitalist peace", "text": "Capitalist peace\n\nThe capitalist peace, or capitalist peace theory, posits that according to a given criterion for economic development (capitalism), developed economies have not engaged in war with each other, and rarely enter into low-level disputes. These theories have been proposed as an explanation for the democratic peace theory by accounting for both democracy and the peace among democratic nations. The exact nature of the causality depends upon both the proposed variable and the measure of the indicator for the concept used.\n\nThe philosophical roots of capitalist peace can be traced back to Immanuel Kant, Joseph Schumpeter, Norman Angell, and classical economic theory. In his 1795 essay Perpetual Peace, Immanuel Kant argued, among other things, that \"the spirit of commerce . . . sooner or later takes hold of every nation, and is incompatible with war.\" In the early twentieth century Norman Angell reasoned that trade interdependence in modern economies makes war unprofitable. Later, Joseph Schumpeter offered the observation that with the advancement of capitalism people form \"an unwarlike disposition.\"\n\nThe modern capitalist peace emerged with the democratic peace. In one of the earliest systematic confirmations of the democratic peace, Stuart Bremer also examined the relationship between capitalism and war. He found capitalism to be a more powerful force for peace than democracy, yet the democratic peace accrued much more attention in the academic and policy literature. Today at least four theories of capitalist peace can be identified, with some of these theories claiming that a capitalist peace may subsume the democratic one, given that capitalism may be the cause of both democracy and peace.\n\nA key to explaining the capitalist peace rests on the indicative measures for capitalism. There are at least four different definitions of capitalism currently being employed. \n\nA number of models of the capitalist peace equate free markets with capitalism. In this usage, free markets and trade cause economic development, which in turn accounts for the peace among nations with advanced economies.\n\nA second understanding of capitalism is one that is conceptualized based on the intensity of market contracting in a society, where a capitalist economy is defined as one where most actors in the economy are integrated by contracting in the market. By definition contracts must be voluntary and undertaken without coercion.\n\nIn the third measure for capitalism inter-state trade is seen as an indicator for a developed, hence a capitalist economy. The level of trade interdependence, therefore, is the operationalized measure of this third type of capitalism.\n\nThe final way that capitalism has been measured is with the size of government. States that have limited governments, hence large private sectors, are supposed to be capitalist economies. The size of government is used as an indicator for the level of capitalism a state has achieved.\n\nThere are five primary theories that have attempted to explain the capitalist peace, each of which has used one of the above definitions of capitalism. Each theory has achieved varying levels of success and empirical corroboration, although they all rely on capitalism as the main explanatory variable for peace.\n\nThe interdependent trade explanation for the capitalist peace is built on the foundations of classical economic theory. This idea, which can be traced back to Kant, became the original theoretical explanation for the capitalist peace. In 1996, Erich Weede tied trade and free markets to development and peace, proposing that trade interdependence caused peace between nations. Weede followed this up with what he called the \"capitalist peace\". However, the empirical findings of the link between trade and development have been drawn into question, as one study found that the proportion of GDP to foreign trade is only 0.08, measured by logged GDP per capita.\n\nEconomic norms theory links the economic conditions of clientelism, which prevail in many lower income societies, and a contract-intensive economy, which prevails in many higher income societies, with divergent political interests and habits.\n\nEconomic norms theory arose as an alternative explanation to the democratic peace, because it identified the causal relationship between democracy and peace as spurious. Michael Mousseau identified contract-intensive economies as a possible cause of both democracy and peace. The explanation is based on two aspects widely accepted in social science: (1) bounded rationality; and (2) divergent hierarchies between clientelism and contract-intensive economies. In contract-intensive societies, individuals have a loyalty towards the state that enforces the contracts between strangers. As a consequence, individuals in these societies expect that their states enforce contracts reliably and impartially, protect individual rights, and make efforts to enhance the general welfare. Moreover, with the assumption of bounded rationality, individuals routinely dependent on trusting strangers in contracts will develop the habits of trusting strangers and preferring universal rights, impartial law, and liberal democratic government. In contrast, individuals in contract-poor societies will develop the habits of abiding by the commands of group leaders, and distrusting those from out-groups.\n\nAccording to economic norms theory, the people in contract-rich nations enjoy a permanent and positive peace. As long as their states accede to popular demands and remain reliably impartial, individuals in nations with contract intensive economies have an interest in everyone’s rights and material welfare, within and outside the nation. Consequently, contract-intensive nations not only avoid war with each other but engage in intense levels of mutual cooperation specifically aimed at promoting each other's material welfare. Leaders of nations with contract-poor economies, in contrast, pursue the interests of their dominant groups and have no interest in the security or welfare of members of out-groups, whether they are internal or external to the nation.\n\nThis theory, originally introduced by EriK Gartzke, Quan Li, and Charles Boehmer, argues that nations with a high level of capital openness are able to avoid conflict with each other and maintain a lasting peace. In particular, nations with freer capital markets are more dependent on international investors, because the investors are likely to withdraw if the country is engaged in a war or inter-state conflict. As a result, leaders of states give greater credibility to threats made by countries with higher levels of capital openness, causing the aforementioned countries to be more peaceful than others by avoiding the possibility of misrepresentation of information. One particular advantage of this theory is that it has been formalized, which helps ensure its internal consistency. The 2007 study performed by Gartzke claimed to make the democratic peace variable insignificant when capital openness was controlled for, but a later re-examination found this study to have several design errors. Using measured logged GDP per capita, development correlates with openness to foreign capital at 0.14, slightly higher than trade. Furthermore, the most recent study failed to control for the variables of economic norms theory and the size of government explanation.\n\nThe size of government explanation for the capitalist peace relies on the fourth definition of capitalism. Introduced by Patrick J. McDonald, the idea is that smaller governments are more dependent than larger or socialist governments on raising taxes for fighting wars. This makes the commitments of nations with smaller governments more credible than those with larger ones, allowing for nations with smaller governments, and thus \"capitalist\" economies, to be better positioned for avoiding conflicts.\n\nThis theory, adduces that if men want to oppose war, it is statism that they must oppose. So long as they hold the tribal notion that the individual is sacrificial fodder for the collective, that some men have the right to rule others by force, and that some (any) alleged \"good\" can justify it—there can be no peace within a nation and no peace among nations. \n\nIn Thomas L. Friedman's 1999 book \"The Lexus and the Olive Tree\", the following observation was presented: \"No two countries that both had McDonald's had fought a war against each other since each got its McDonald's\". He supported that observation, as a theory, by stating that when a country has reached an economic development where it has a middle class strong enough to support a McDonald's network, it would become a \"McDonald's country\", and will not be interested in fighting wars anymore.\n\nShortly after the book was published, NATO bombed Yugoslavia. On the first day of the bombing, McDonald's restaurants in Belgrade were demolished by angry protesters and were rebuilt only after the bombing ended. In the 2000 edition of the book, Friedman argued that this exception proved the rule: the war ended quickly, he argued, partly because the Serbian population did not want to lose their place in a global system \"symbolised by McDonald's\" (Friedman 2000: 252–253).\n\nCritics have pointed to two other conflicts fought before 2000 as counterexamples, depending on what one considers \"a war\":\n\n\nIn 2005, Friedman said that he framed this theory in terms of McDonald's Golden Arches \"with tongue slightly in cheek\". In his 2005 book \"The World is Flat\" he offered an updated theory he labelled the Dell Theory of Conflict Prevention.\n\nSince 2005, there have been three more conflicts cited as counterexamples:\n\n\nFriedman's point is that due to globalization, countries that have made strong economic ties with one another have too much to lose to ever go to war with one another. Regardless of whether the statement is true, the conclusions to be drawn are unclear. The global expansion of McDonald's restaurants is a relatively recent phenomenon when put into the context of the history of warfare, and, with a few notable exceptions, has proceeded into relatively stable markets.\n\nThe Dell Theory of Conflict Prevention, also known as simply the Dell Theory, has been presented by Thomas Friedman in his book \"The World Is Flat\". This theory is an updated version of his previous \"Golden Arches Theory of Conflict Prevention\".\n\nThat is, as long as corporations have major supply chain operations in countries other than that corporation's home country, those countries will never engage in armed conflicts. This is due to the economic interdependence between nations that arises from a large corporation (such as Dell) having supply chain operations in multiple global locations and the reluctance of developing nations (in which supply chain operations commonly take place) to give up their newfound wealth.\n\nIn his previous book \"The Lexus and the Olive Tree\", Friedman argued that no two nations with a McDonald's franchise had ever gone to war with one another: this was known as the Golden Arches theory. Later, Friedman upgraded that theory into the \"Dell Theory of Conflict Prevention\" by saying that people or nations don't just want to have a better standard of living as symbolized by McDonald's franchise in their downtown, but want to have the lump of the labour sector that is created by globalization. That is, developing nations do not want to risk the trust of the multi-national companies who venture into their markets and include them in the global supply chain.\n\nThomas Friedman also warns in his book \"The World Is Flat\" that the Dell Theory should not be interpreted as a guarantee that nations who are deeply involved in global supply chains will not go to war with each other. It rather means that the governments of these nations and their citizens will have very heavy economic costs to consider as they contemplate the possibility of war. These costs include the long-term loss of the country's profitable participation in the global supply chain.\n\nThis theory relates with how conflict prevention occurred between India and Pakistan in their 2001 - 2002 nuclear standoff, where India was at risk of losing its global partners. The relationship between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan was also cited as an example of this theory - they both have strong supply relations with each other and a war between the two seems very unlikely today.\n\n"}
{"id": "58703339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58703339", "title": "Chartered Accountants' Hall", "text": "Chartered Accountants' Hall\n\nChartered Accountants' Hall is a Grade II* listed building located at 1 Moorgate Place in the City of London. It is the headquarters of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales (ICAEW). The Hall is one of the richest examples of late Victorian architecture in the City and has been praised for its seamless integration of sculpture.\n\nIt established the fame of its architect, John Belcher. Chartered Accountants’ Hall was Belcher's first building in a more monumental Baroque Revival style, drawing on Baroque architecture which he had studied while travelling in Europe.. \n\nSome sources attribute the building as a joint design by Belcher in conjunction with Arthur Beresford Pite, who was a partner in Belcher's practice. The two men were friends and admired each other's work. A pupil of Belcher's at the time claimed that Pite's energy and personality had 'very strongly' influenced Belcher and had left its impression above all on the Chartered Accountants building. In ‘The Alliance of Sculpture and Architecture’ (1993) the authors begin a discussion of the influence of Pite upon Belcher's new Baroque style for the Hall by stating: . \n\nBetween 1880 and 1890, ICAEW was based in 3 Copthall Buildings while a location was sought for a permanent headquarters. During a special meeting in 1888, William Deloitte put forward a motion to purchase the site at Moorgate Place on a 999 year lease at a ground rent of £900 per annum. The competition for designs was won by John Belcher, with an estimated cost of £17,250. The ICAEW Council also commissioned Hamo Thornycroft to produce a sculpted frieze at an additional cost of £3,000.\n\nConstruction was delayed as the original contractors went into receivership, the work being completed by Messrs Coll & Sons. In the event, the terms of the lease were altered to £472 for twenty years increasing to £786 thereafter, in return for part of the site being given up to expand Great Swan Alley.\n\nThe foundation stone of Chartered Accountants’ Hall was laid in July 1890. Under the stone were placed current issues of The Times and The Accountant, a copy of the Institute’s Charter and Bye-Laws, a list of members, and examples of the copper and silver (though not gold) coins of the day.\n\nThe Hall was formally opened in 10 May 1893 by the Institute President, Edwin Waterhouse. It originally provided 19,500 square feet of accommodation. The final cost came to £41,561 3s 0d, including heating, lighting, ground rents and the architect’s commission.\n\nThe building has been described as “one of the few Victorian buildings in the City with interiors worthy of its ornate facades.”\n\nIt features a pilastered entrance hall with coffered ceiling after Alessi’s Palazzo Cambiaso in Genoa. The substantial library (now the members’ room) has a gallery and balustraded bridge inspired by the Rialto Bridge in Venice. It is believed to be the only example of an indoor bridge in the UK.\n\nThe staircase originally featured stained glass windows by Henry Holiday, completed in 1898. These were re-installed in 2017, a year ahead of the 125th anniversary of the building’s opening, and are now positioned in the entrance to the Great Hall. Holiday's original 1897 watercolour designs for the windows are housed in the Prints, Drawings & Paintings collection of the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. \n\nThe council chamber (now the reception room) has a high domed ceiling and elaborate wall-paintings by George Murray to Belcher’s designs, representing the Triumph of the Law and Science bringing Order to Commerce.\n\nThornycroft’s frieze depicts groups of figures representing Arts, Sciences, Crafts, Education, Commerce, Manufacture, Agriculture, Mining, Railways, Shipping, India, the Colonies, and Building. The figure of the architect is based on Belcher and the sculptor on Thornycroft himself. The figure of the solicitor is H. Markby of Markby, Stewart & Co., who acted for ICAEW in its early years. \n\nWhen the Hall was expanded in 1930 the frieze was continued for another 50 feet by J.A. Stevenson on the theme of the history of building. This is represented by British, Italian, Gothic, Byzantine, Roman, Greek, Assyrian, Egyptian and Prehistoric figures. \n\nFor the Whitfield extension in the 1960s, David McFall completed three final panels. These depict Egyptians and the foundation of accounting, 19th century men as the founding fathers of ICAEW, and four Renaissance figures including Luca Pacioli, the first person to publish a work on double-entry bookkeeping.\n\nAs ICAEW expanded after the First World War it became necessary to extend the original building. In 1926 the Institute purchased Swan House on the adjoining land. J.J. Joass, a pupil of Belcher’s, was commissioned to extend the building eastwards and provide an additional 5,000 square feet for meeting rooms and offices. The final cost of the extension came to £35,976 9s. 6d. \nIn 1957 the Society of Incorporated Accountants was integrated into the national bodies of accountants, boosting the Institute’s membership by 10,000. William Whitfield was commissioned in 1959 to report on the feasibility of a new building. It was decided to extend the existing building substantially and create a Great Hall to accommodate functions, large meetings and other events. Final designs were accepted in 1964 and the new headquarters was opened by HM Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother in May 1970.\n\nUnusually for a space of this size, Whitfield’s Great Hall is uninterrupted by any supporting columns. Instead the office floors above are supported by exterior concrete piers. The rough plaster relief finish that covers the walls is by Cathy Ward and is known as ‘Elephant Trunking’ as it was first used on the Elephant House at London Zoo. \n\nOf the building as a whole, Nikolaus Pevsner noted that: ”here is proof, if proof were needed, that the uncompromisingly new can go with the old, if handled by an appreciative and imaginative architect.” The two extensions - Joass's complementary extension juxtaposed with Whitfield's Brutalist bush-hammered concrete - help contribute to Chartered Accountants' Hall being designated a Grade II* listed building. The extension was awarded a Certificate of Commendation by The Concrete Society in 1971. \n\nThe total cost of the new building came to almost £2.5 million and added 63,000 square feet of space. The improvements included a new set of offices for the library and a members’ restaurant. It was at this point that the council chamber became the reception room, the old library became the members’ room, and the Oak Hall was divided horizontally into a new council chamber and a set of interview rooms.\n\nICAEW possesses numerous antique furnishings and works of art gifted by individuals or accountancy bodies, including several given to celebrate the centenary in 1980.\n\nThe walls of the Hall feature portraits of the ICAEW’s first presidents, including William Barclay Peat and William Welch Deloitte. A tapestry by Eduardo Paolozzi, depicting modern innovations such as a jet engine, a micro chip and a television, hangs in the eastern entrance. The Hall owns a set of silverware by Gerald Benney and paintings by John Piper. The library’s rare book collection holds early works on accounting and bookkeeping, including the complete published works of Luca Pacioli , and the only complete copy of the oldest surviving original book on accounting in English (James Peele’s ‘The maner and fourme how to kepe a perfecte reconying’).\n\nIn addition to functioning as ICAEW’s administrative headquarters, Chartered Accountants’ Hall offers business and social facilities to its members and the general public. These include a café, a members’ club, a lending library and a business centre. \n"}
{"id": "2938090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2938090", "title": "Constraints accounting", "text": "Constraints accounting\n\nConstraints accounting (CA) allow some variations generally accepted accounting principles(GAAP) when reporting financial statements of company and these variations do not violate the GAAP in light of recognised CA. CA contains explicit consideration of the role of constraints in accounting and constraints relate to limitations when providing financial information. The definition of a constraint is a regulation which belongs to prescribed bounds and there are four main types of constraints which are the \"cost-benefit relationship, materiality, industry practices, and conservatism\", and these constraints are also accounting guidelines which border the hierarchy of qualitative information.\n\nThe cost-benefit relationship constraint is also called cost effectiveness constraints and is pervasive throughout the framework. The companies need to spend money and time in the process of providing financial statements. To be more specific, Costs can constraint the range of information when providing financial reporting on the grounds that the companies must \"collect, process, analyze and disseminate relevant information\" which need time and money. For investors, they want to know all financial information if possible in ideal condition, which may cause tremendous financial burden in the corporations. Moreover, some financial information may not valuable for external users to acquire a huge benefit, for example, how much money do a company spend for its greening of headquarters. Therefore, when deciding the components of financial reporting, companies need to measure the sense of particular financial information and the expenditure of providing particular information and the benefits they can acquire from this particular information. Properly speaking, If the costs in particular information exceed the benefit they can acquire, companies may choose to not disclose this particular information. For example, If there is $0.1 difference between checkbook register and bank statement, accountant should ignore the $0.1 rather than waste time and money to find the $0.1.\n\nCompanies need to consider materiality when providing financial information. Particularly, companies must disclose the material information which can influence the financial performance and some immaterial information can be excluded. For example, a company owns $10 million net assets and therefore a default of customer with $1000 is immateriality and in contrast if the amount of default is $2 million, which can influence the financial decisions and thus means material. However, there are also some small items which can transfer net profit to net loss and these item can be considered as material items. In order to judge whether the information is material or not, companies can based on the following materiality process:\n\nExpected:\nAdvanced:\n\nExpected:\nAdvanced:\n\nExpected:\nAdvanced:\n\nExcepted:\nAdvanced:\n\nExpected:\nAdvanced:\n\nExpected:\nAdvanced:\n\nExpected:\nAdvanced:\n\nIndustry Practices is a less dominated constraint compared with cost and relationships and materiality in financial reporting. This constraints means in some industries, it is hard and costly to calculate the production costs and therefore companies in these particular industries choose to only report the current market prices instead of production costs. For example, in agriculture industry, calculating cost per crop is difficult and expensive and hence they choose to report the price in the current market which is easier for farmers.\n\nAccountants estimate the transactions and then choose to whether record the transactions or not based on their own judgement. In terms of that, conservatism is helpful for accountants to make a choice between two similarly alternatives and it makes accountants choose to record the less optimistic choice. For example, If there is possible that customers will sue the company and they may also not to sue the company. In this case, accountants need to disclose this situation to investors. Moreover, the Conservatism is also a less dominated constraint, which means firms also need to consider more about bad news than good news when reporting financial statements. In particular, firms need to choose the method that \" least likely overstates assets and income or understates liabilities and losses\" when encountering accounting issues. For example, if the staff believe there will be 2% bad debt in terms of receivables based on historical information and another staff believe there will be 5% because of sudden drop, the company need to use the 5% figure when providing financial statements.\n"}
{"id": "23213511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23213511", "title": "Crowne Plaza Hotel, Times Square", "text": "Crowne Plaza Hotel, Times Square\n\nCrowne Plaza Times Square is a 795-room hotel situated in the Times Square area of New York City's midtown Manhattan, located at 1601 Broadway, between W48th and W49th Streets. At 480 feet (146 meters), with 46 floors, it is the 94th tallest hotel in the world, the 29th tallest hotel in the United States, and the 15th-tallest hotel in New York City. The hotel was designed by The Alan Lapidus Group, completed in 1989 and opened in 1990.\n\nThe hotel is a mixed-use skyscraper with the 795-key Crowne Plaza hotel, 7,700 square feet of retail space, 197,000 square feet of office space, and a 159-space parking garage. New York's largest conference center, the American Management Association's Executive Conference Center, is on the sixth through eighth floors with a total of 88,066 square feet. Learning Tree International has 25,000 square feet; the New York Sports Club has 28,418 square feet; and the Hershey Company has 7,000 square feet of retail space on street level.\n\nThe hotel is the flagship of the Crowne Plaza brand. In 2008, the hotel underwent an $85 million renovation which revamped the lobby, restaurant and bar areas, as well as updated all of the guest rooms and the hotel's more than of function space. Amenities include the following: one of the largest hotel-based fitness facilities in the city, the New York Sports Club located on the 15th floor; the Broadway 49 Bar & Lounge overlooking Broadway; Brasserie 1605 with views of the 24/7 Times Square light show; two business centers; concierge; room service; and on-site valet parking. The Crowne Plaza Times Square is pet-friendly for quadrupeds up to 25 pounds.\n\nIn April, 2018 Vornado Realty Trust refinanced the hotel with a $250 million loan from Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley.\n"}
{"id": "26267994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26267994", "title": "David Goldie (politician)", "text": "David Goldie (politician)\n\nDavid Goldie (1842 – 8 June 1926) was the Mayor of Auckland City from 1898 to 1901 and a Member of Parliament in New Zealand.\n\nBorn in Hobart, Tasmania, in 1842, Goldie emigrated to New Zealand in 1863. He was a prominent timber merchant, and a strict Primitive Methodist who resigned as Mayor of Auckland rather than toast the visiting Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York with alcohol. He was replaced as mayor for the jubilee year by the \"Father of Auckland\", Sir John Logan Campbell.\n\nHe was the father of artist C. F. Goldie.\n\nGoldie contested the Auckland West electorate in a by-election on 4 March 1879. The by-election was caused by the resignation of Patrick Dignan, who also stood in this contest. Dignan and Goldie received 261 and 776 votes, respectively, and with a majority of 515 votes, Goldie was declared elected. He served until the dissolution of parliament on 15 August of that year.\n\nGoldie represented the Auckland West electorate again from 1887 to 1890. He then represented the Newton electorate from 1890 to 1891 as a Liberal MP, when he resigned.\n\nHe died at his home in Auckland on 8 June 1926 and was buried at Purewa Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "48482960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48482960", "title": "Demarketing", "text": "Demarketing\n\nDemarketing may be considered “unselling” or “marketing in reverse”, which includes general and selective demarketing.\n\nAlthough the concept of demarketing lacks a precise theoretical definition, it refers to an attempt by the firm to discourage all or some of its customers from making purchases either temporarily or permanently. Since the initial interests in the subject area of how to market strategically in times of shortages began, different viewpoints have been offered as to how the firm should pursue demarketing.\n\nWhile there are many definitions of demarketing—the common thread is the intent to decrease demand.\n\nBusinessdictionary.com defines demarketing as: Efforts aimed at discouraging (not destroying) the demand for a product which (1) a firm cannot supply in large-enough quantities, or (2) does not want to supply in a certain region where the high costs of distribution or promotion allow only a too little profit margin. Common demarketing strategies include higher prices, scaled-down advertising, and product redesign.\n\nAccording to Websters dictionary, demarketing is “The use of advertising to decrease demand for a product that is in short supply.”\n\nA few other definitions include one from DictionaryReference.com: “Advertising that urges the public to limit the consumption of a product, as at a time of shortage.”\n\nThe All Business dictionary defines demarketing as: Marketers attempt to reduce the demand for a product when the demand for the product is greater than the manufacturer’s ability to produce it.\n\nWhile demarketing may seem relatively new, it has in fact been around for decades.\nIn 1971 Phillip Kotler and Sidney Levy introduced the expression “demarketing” in a Harvard Business Review article titled “Demarketing, Yes, Demarketing.”\n\nLater in 1973, another article appeared in the Journal of Marketing by Phillip Kotler. Here, Dr. Kotler elaborated on the “current demand level” and the “desired demand level” in the context of marketing. There is “underdemand, adequate demand, and overdemand.” Each demand situation requires different marketing approaches and corresponding tasks. Specifically, where there is overdemand, the marketing task is to reduce demand by “demarketing.” While demarketing reduces the demand without impugning the product, “countermarketing” seeks to destroy the demand for a product that is “unwholesome” on its face, such as “vice” products. Kotler also used the term “unsell” which “may also be viewed as an effort to sell something else.” Ahead of his time, Kotler observed “unselling (or demarketing) has as much social justification in a democracy as does selling.”\n\nKotler also seemed to have anticipated the rise of “behavioral economics” when he observed in 1973 that “Efforts to turn off demand can profitably draw on certain concepts and theories in psychology” specifically, deconditioning, habit extinction theory, and learning and reinforcement theory.\n\nIn 2011, Dr. Kotler teamed up with R. Craig Lefebvre to write Design Thinking, Demarketing and Behavioral Economics: Fostering Interdisciplinary Growth in Social Marketing. “As the growing number of governments, businesses and private funding sources focus on conditions of consumer excess, we see the social marketing paradigm expanding to accommodate this cultural shift to an Age of Demarketing.”\n\nAccording to Lefebvre and Kotler (2011) “Demarketing can be viewed as blending all 4Ps of the marketing mix and also aiming for policy changes to nudge and sustain healthier and more socially responsible behavioral choices… (and) deeper understanding of the people we wish to serve, the environments in which they make choices, the market research we conduct and the programs we implement.”\n\nMikl ́os-Thal and Juanjuan (2011) proposed that sellers use demarketing to strategically manage buyers’ quality perceptions. They observed that consistent with ostensible demarketing, Cialdini (1985) suggests a psychological tendency for humans to want things that are less available. Amaldoss and Jain (2005) show that limited availability satisfies consumers’ need for uniqueness, and Stock and Balachander (2005) demonstrate that scarcity can signal high quality.\n\nSince the invent of demarketing in the 1970s, many different strategies for implementing demarketing have evolved. Traditionally in marketing - which seeks to grow the consumer base and increase the demand for a product or service - the 4 P’s are product, price, place/distribution and promotion. The logic then follows that demarketing would adapt this structure to serve the opposite purpose of reducing the consumer base and discouraging demand for a product and service. Instead of increasing availability of a product or service, a demarketing strategy would be to actually restrict availability. Furthermore, demarketing would seek to increase availability of the alternatives and highlight the downside of the product or service, therefore making it less attractive to consumers. To demarket in the pricing arena, the taxes or price might increase with the purpose of shrinking the demand. Advertising can be minimized or eliminated. The placement of a product/service or the size of the consumption space can be strategically changed to reduce the likelihood of consumption. Another strategy would be to promote behavior that does not require the product or service being demarketed.\n\nDemarketing strategies may differ when being used by a private firm versus a government entity. Social marketing strategies have been widely implemented to demarket products or services that are perceived to be harmful or costly to society. Traditional marketing principles also apply to social marketing, which is used to advance or depress a social idea, cause or behavior. Instead of talking about products, social marketing makes a proposition. Instead of discussing placement of a service or product, it deals with accessibility to those services or products. In place of promotion social marketing uses social communication to spread ideas. Rather than price, the costs of involvement are highlighted by social marketing in ways that support their marketing or demarketing message.\n\nDemarketing activities discourage demand. This stands in sharp contrast to the objectives of marketing: create utility and enhance exchanges. In their provocative article \"Demarketing, Yes, Demarketing,\" Kotler and Levy (1971) distinguish three types of demarketing situations.\n\nGeneral demarketing occurs when a seller shrinks the level of total demand. Suppliers of electricity and water use advertisements and publicity campaigns during periods of excess demand.\n\nSelective demarketing occurs when a company discourages demand from certain classes of consumers. Adult communities demarket properties to families with children, and producers of goods with a snob appeal avoid low-image retailers.\n\nOstensible demarketing occurs when a seller creates an artificial or perceived shortage to whet consumer appetites. Limited distribution of goods may induce consumers to stockpile these “hard-to-get\" items.\n\nAlthough Kotler and Levy (1971) emphasized the need for careful research into these phenomena, little effort has been devoted to the formal study of demarketing by marketers. This is not surprising, as marketers are trained to build demand rather than destroy it.\n\nSalop (1977), Chiang and Spatt (1982), Narasimhan (1984), and Gerstner and Holthausen (1986) have shown that price discriminating firms may create transaction costs deliberately to discourage consumers from seeking the lowest price. Busy consumers pay higher prices, whereas those with small transaction costs pay lower prices. For example, some retailers hold \"3-hour sales\" from 8 to 11 Saturday morning. Consumers who get to the store before 11:00 am pay lower prices but incur the inconvenience of early morning shopping. Busy consumers who want a time-convenient product may pay a higher price for that product, so a firm may make the more convenient product more expensive.\n\nThe bait-and-switch demarketing strategy is when a firm advertises one product in such a way that the intention is not that the consumers buy that product, but that they buy a more profitable product in its place. Gerstner and Hess (1990) and Chu, Gerstner and Hess (1992) studied disparagement of products in sales presentations or in point of-purchase displays that are designed to discourage consumers from buying featured brands. These practices, however, might be illegal.\n\nAnother known demarketing strategy is stock outage demarketing, where a firm actually plans a stock outage. Stock outages frustrate consumers, but stores often offer rain checks that guarantee delivery at a future date. Nevertheless, Hess and Gerstner (1987) showed that stores might profit from planned stock outages with rain checks because customers may visit the stores twice and buy complementary products on each visit. Balachander and Farquhar (1991) showed that deliberate stock outages help stores charge higher prices and earn higher profits. The possibility of a stock outage in one store makes customers more eager to buy when the other store has the product in stock.\n\nCrowding cost demarketing is a strategy implemented on “Black Friday” when crowds will deter many consumers from purchasing a product at a lower price. Retail stores, hotels, and airlines have limited capacities. A low price usually attracts large numbers of shoppers, so customers must hunt for space in crowded parking lots and stand in long checkout lines. Businesses may deliberately accept capacity constraints, recognizing that some customers would trade the higher prices for reduced crowding. Gerstner (1986) derived symmetric equilibrium prices and crowding costs in such markets.\n\nOn the other hand, there has been growing scholarly interest in issues that can be construed as demarketing. There are numerous specific strategies for demarketing that would fall within the 4 P’s definitions, although the demarketing terminology is not used. Eitan Gerstner, James Hess and Wujin Chu discuss a few of them in their 1993 article, “Demarketing as a Differentiation Strategy”. The differentiation strategy means that a firm might use a “nuisance factor” that actually drives consumers away from them, and into the arms of their competitors in order to keep their prices elevated. This can also be used to avoid a price war with that competitor.\n\nAn example of demarketing in action is the demarketing of healthcare consumption that occurred in Canada in the 1990s. Canada’s social healthcare system was under stress from overuse or inefficient use. In order to combat these issues, Dr. Gurprit Kindra, from the University of Ottawa made strategic suggestions in an article he wrote in 1995. Kindra suggested that some co-payments and user fees be applied to discourage consumption. He also proposed that a system geared toward more managed care would reduce the number of services being accessed if patients were required to get a referral from a primary point of contact before seeing other specialties. Among his other suggestions were health promotion and education for the general public that would encourage less utilization of the healthcare services and reducing the convenience to patients by restricting access to free or deeply discounted services like Canada’s publicly subsidized urgent care facilities and instead make available privatized fast-lane services for those consumers who are willing to pay more.\n\nPromoting the use of paperless products at home and in the office to save the trees, is an example of demarketing paper products. Pennsylvania, Texas, Wisconsin, and other states are now issuing electronic vehicle titles.\n\nDue to the severe drought, the State of California has been restricting water usage, while providing tax rebates for installing synthetic turf. An average home that converts to artificial grass saves about 22,000 gallons of water per year.\n\nImposing tight regulations on coal by the Environmental Protection Agency and promoting the use of natural gas at power plants to reduce carbon emissions will accelerate the decline of coal for electricity generation.\n\nPromoting high fiber, organic, and healthy products against food and beverages with saturated fat, high fructose corn syrup, and artificial ingredients helps to prevent obesity, diabetes, and other diseases.\n\nWhile demarketing may be employed to decrease demand, countermarketing seeks to destroy demand. Strategies include promoting anti-smoking/health themes, taxes on tobacco products, imposing mandatory warning labels, decreasing advertising spaces, increasing pricing, and restricting the consumption space in favor of nicotine patches, Nicorette gum, and Nicorette lozenges.\n\nResearch points to behavioral reactions to anti-drug ads that go in the opposite direction from that which was intended. In other words, a boomerang effect occurs where greater levels of exposure to anti-drug campaign results in potentially increased use of drugs. The thinking is that anti-drug publicity may convey the idea that “everyone’s doing it.”\nIn addition, it is possible that the ads had an unintended positive impact on perceptions towards drugs by portraying “benefits” associated with using, an association possibly strengthened by repeated exposure to messages and images suggesting the \"good-times\" people have while on drugs. Beliefs and behaviors of youths were also affected by perceptions regarding older peers.\nFurther, ABC News reported findings in 2008 that the federal government’s effort to keep youngsters from using drugs “is unlikely to have had favorable effects on youths.” State government efforts have also come under criticism. A December, 2008, article in Science Daily about an effort by the state of Montana states: “An independent review investigating the effectiveness of a publicly funded graphic anti-methamphetamine advertising campaign has found that the campaign has been associated with many negative outcomes.” \n"}
{"id": "304272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304272", "title": "Department of Trade and Industry (United Kingdom)", "text": "Department of Trade and Industry (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) was a United Kingdom government department formed on 19 October 1970. It was replaced with the creation of the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform and the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills on 28 June 2007.\n\nThe department was first formed on 19 October 1970 with the merger of the Board of Trade and the Ministry of Technology, creating a new cabinet post of Secretary of State for Trade and Industry. The new department also took over the Department of Employment's former responsibilities for monopolies and mergers. In January 1974, the department's responsibilities for energy production were transferred to a newly created Department of Energy. On 5 March that year, following a Labour Party victory in the February 1974 general election, the department was split into the Department of Trade, the Department of Industry and the Department of Prices and Consumer Protection.\n\nIn 1983 the departments of Trade and Industry were reunited. The Department of Energy was re-merged back into the DTI in 1992, but various media-related functions transferred to the Department for National Heritage. Until it was succeeded in June 2007 the DTI continued to set the energy policy of the United Kingdom.\n\nAfter the 2005 general election the DTI was renamed to the Department for Productivity, Energy and Industry, but the name reverted to Department of Trade and Industry less than a week later, after widespread derision, including some from the Confederation of British Industry.\n\nThe DTI had a wide range of responsibilities. There were ultimately nine main areas covered by the DTI:\n\nFrom 1999 to 2005 it led the national E-Commerce Awards with InterForum, a not for profit membership organisation that helped British businesses to trade electronically. This aimed to encourage Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises to develop their business through the use of E-Commerce technologies.\n\nIt also had responsibility for investigating misconduct by company directors, in which role Private Eye repeatedly lampooned it as \"the Department of Timidity and Inaction\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38809278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38809278", "title": "Desarrollo Urbano Tres Ríos", "text": "Desarrollo Urbano Tres Ríos\n\nDesarrollo Urbano 3 Ríos is the sixth urban sector and the newest central business district in the central area of Culiacán, Sinaloa, Mexico. The zone is known for city's biggest mall Forum Mall (Mexico).\n\n\n\nMajor buildings in the Tres Ríos zone of Culiacán:\n"}
{"id": "1599499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599499", "title": "Downtown Phoenix", "text": "Downtown Phoenix\n\nDowntown Phoenix is the central business district (CBD) of the City of Phoenix, Arizona, United States. It is located in the heart of the Phoenix metropolitan area or Valley of the Sun. Phoenix, being the county seat of Maricopa County and the capital of Arizona, serves as the center of politics, justice and government on the local, state and federal levels. The area is a major center of employment for the region, with many financial, legal, and other national and international corporations housed in a variety of skyscrapers. Major arts and cultural institutions also call the area home. Downtown Phoenix is a center of major league sports activities, live concert events, and is an equally prominent center of banking and finance in Arizona. Regional headquarters for several major banks, including JP Morgan Chase, Wells Fargo, US Bank, Bank of America, Compass Bank and Midfirst Bank are all located within or close proximity to the area.\n\nThe City of Phoenix defines Downtown as the area between 7th Street and 7th Avenue, from McDowell Road on the north to Buckeye Road on the south. However, the majority of downtown development is concentrated in the smaller area surrounding the intersection of Washington St. and Central Ave (which is the point of origin of Phoenix street addresses and numbering).\n\nIn 1870, a meeting was held to select a town site for the influx of pioneers coming to the recently recognized town of Phoenix. 320 acres were purchased for $50 raised by popular subscription. This original site, the whole of the town of Phoenix in that day, encompasses what would presently be the Downtown Core, bordered by Van Buren Street south to Jackson Street, and Seventh Street to Seventh Avenue.\n\nWith the first survey of the new town, streets were laid out in a grid, with Washington Street as the main east-west thoroughfare. The north-south streets originally bore Native American tribal names, but were changed to more easily remembered numbers, with everything east of Center Street (later Central Avenue) named as streets and everything west as avenues. The town continued to grow, and was eventually incorporated as a city on February 28, 1881, centered around downtown.\n\nThroughout the 1880s the newly incorporated city made many strides toward modernization with the construction of one of the first electric plants in the West as well as the opening of the horse-drawn streetcar line. The Phoenix Street Railway system was eventually electrified and expanded to several different lines that connected Downtown Phoenix to other neighborhoods and cities in the Valley. Independence Day of 1887 heralded the arrival first Southern Pacific train. This opened up the economy of the young city, as goods now flowed in and out by train as opposed to wagon. As Phoenix became the center of commerce in the territory, the capital was moved to Phoenix.\n\nAfter Arizona was granted statehood in 1912, the growth of Phoenix exploded from the downtown epicenter. By the 1930s, a modern skyline composed of various commercial buildings began to take shape and Downtown was a dense, compact and pedestrian friendly city characterized by Victorian buildings and ground-floor retail. Post-World War II building focused heavily on suburb creation, and this, combined with the rise of the automobile and evaporative cooling, resulted in large population relocation outside of Downtown.\n\nAs Phoenix began to recover from the Great Recession, interest in re-energizing the urban core skyrocketed. In contrast to the pre-recession construction boom in the Phoenix area which primarily focused on the construction of low density communities and suburban office complexes, the most recent boom has been heavily focused on Central Phoenix, with the construction of higher density development, and a renewed interest in local business, bioscience, education, and the arts. Spurred by Arizona State University’s quickly developing Downtown Campus and a new Convention Center, Downtown Phoenix has quickly transformed into an attractive place for businesses. Areas such as Lower Grand, Roosevelt, and the Warehouse District have seen a massive investment in art, adaptive reuse, and local restaurants.\n\nIn February 2015, the Super Bowl was held in Arizona and, unlike the 2008 Super Bowl, many of the major NFL events were held on the streets of Downtown Phoenix, showcasing to the world how the city had transformed its downtown into a lively, thriving community full of creative energy and opportunity. The construction of Phoenix's light rail system has stemmed major development projects in Downtown Phoenix along the Central Avenue corridor.\n\nDowntown Phoenix has many points of interest, including museums, sports venues, performing arts venues and a thriving art scene.\n\nDowntown's museum and cultural attractions include the Arizona Science Center, The Wells Fargo History Museum, the Phoenix Art Museum, the Rosson House Museum, the Arizona Latino Arts and Cultural Center, the Children's Museum of Phoenix and the Phoenix Center for the Arts.\nArizona State University, the University of Arizona, Northern Arizona University and GateWay Community College all own buildings and have a presence in downtown.\n\nDowntown Phoenix has a large sports presence.\nChase Field is home to the Arizona Diamondbacks. It was the site of the Insight Bowl from 2001 to 2005 and hosted the 2006 World Baseball Classic and international soccer games.\n\nTalking Stick Resort Arena is home to the Phoenix Suns, Phoenix Mercury and Arizona Rattlers. The ECHL's Phoenix RoadRunners played there from 2005 to 2009. It hosted the NBA All-Star game on February 15, 2009.\n\nDowntown Phoenix has hosted many major sporting events in recent years. Downtown was the site of the 2015 Super Bowl XLIX Central and NFL Experience, which drew over 1 million people to the city center. In March 2017, Phoenix hosted the 2017 NCAA Final Four Championship, drawing over 400,000 people to Margaret T. Hance Park and other associated downtown entertainment venues.\n\nPhoenix Symphony Hall is home to the Phoenix Symphony. The Tucson-based Arizona Opera has staged many of its productions in Phoenix at Symphony Hall. Ballet Arizona also stages many of its productions at Symphony Hall.\n\nThe Orpheum Theater originally built as a grand movie house in 1927, had undergone a 12-year, $14 million extensive renovation ending in 2002. The theater now stages everything from beauty pageants to Broadway shows.\nThe Herberger Theater Center was built in 1989, has three stages and is home to 3 resident companies: Actors Theater, Arizona Theater Company and Center Dance Ensemble.\n\nThe Comerica Theatre, a Live Nation venue, is a state of the art entertainment venue designed specifically for concerts, Broadway shows, family stage shows, and boxing. Originally known as Dodge Theatre before the primary sponsorship changed in 2010, the facility seats up to 5,000 people.\n\nDowntown has two main visitor and information centers. Downtown Phoenix, located at 2 E. Washington Street runs Downtown's Business Improvement District and is open daily Monday – Saturday, 8:00am – 8:00pm. Visit Phoenix operates a citywide visitor and tourist center within the Downtown hoenix Convention Center.\n\nLuhrs Building & Tower – Located on Central and Jefferson Avenue, the Luhrs Building was completed in 1924 and was Downtown's first 10-story high rise. In 1929, a second phase of the development resulted in the completion of a 14-story Art Deco tower with Spanish Colonial and Southwest influences. Both buildings have been preserved and house office, restaurants and retail businesses.\nHanny's – Opened in 1947, Hanny's was the number one location for men's clothing and fashion until closure in 1986. The building now houses an upscale restaurant and cocktail bar.\n\nThe Professional Building (Hilton Garden Inn) – Built in 1932 as the headquarters for Valley Bank and the Maricopa County Medical Society, the building provided Phoenix's first medical offices until the bank took over the entire building in 1939. It is the largest limestone sheathed building in Arizona.\n\nMaricopa County Courthouse (Historic City Hall) – The existing building served as the City Hall from 1928–1994 when the “New” City Hall was completed across the street. The building is an excellent example of Renaissance Revival architecture.\n\nThe San Carlos – Constructed in 1927, The San Carlos hotel opened its doors on March 19, 1928 as the first hotel in Phoenix with evaporative cooling. The site was previously the location of the first school house in Phoenix. Major celebrities have stayed in the hotel, including Betty Grable, Mae West, Clark Gable and Marilyn Monroe. The hotel now has 12 suites named in honor of its famous visitors and remains a working hotel.\nThe Heard Building – When completed in 1920, the Heard building was Downtown's tallest structure and was financed by Dwight B. Heard, a finance and publishing executive. Since completion, it has housed the Arizona Republic newspaper, a radio station and many office and ground-floor restaurant tenants.\n\nSt. Mary's Basilica – Built in Romanesque/Mission Revival style, St. Mary's Basilica is the oldest Catholic parish in Phoenix and the second oldest church in Phoenix. Construction began in its first phase in 1880 and the building and grounds were placed onto the National Register of Historic Places in 1978.\nChase Field – Opened in 1998, Chase Field is the first stadium built in the U.S. with a retractable roof over natural grass and is the home of the Arizona Diamondbacks Baseball team.\n\nAlwun House - Home of the Alwun House Foundation, this historic building located in the Garfield neighborhood serves as a nonprofit alternative/contemporary art gallery. The foundation was the recipient of a 2013 Governor's Arts Award in the community category.\n\nOver twenty-five high-rise buildings ranging up to 40 stories tall pierce the skyline. Three of the five tallest skyscrapers in the state of Arizona are in Downtown Phoenix. Chase Tower, at 40 stories and a height of , is the tallest. U.S. Bank Center's 31 floors and tall is number two. 44 Monroe, at 34 floors and a height of is Phoenix's 4th tallest. The Freeport-McMoRan Center tops out at 26 floors and is 116.7 meters (382 ft) tall. The bottom floors of the tower contain a luxury Westin hotel.\n\nThe architecture of Downtown offers many examples of 20th-century architectural styles including the Beaux Arts-style Security Building and Hotel San Carlos. Art Deco design can be seen in Luhrs Tower, Hilton Garden Inn (formerly the Professional Building and the Hotel Monroe) and the Orpheum Lofts. International Style was popular from the 1960s to the 1980s and prime examples include Chase Tower and U.S. Bank Center. The short-lived brutalist style has only one example in downtown Phoenix in the Wells Fargo Plaza. Post modern, with its return to architectural ornamentation, can be seen in the Bank of America Tower, both towers at the Arizona Center and, most notably, in the crown of the Phoenix City Hall Building.\n\nThe recent trend of urban living has led to the conversion of the 1930s-era Phoenix Title and Trust building to condominiums called Orpheum Lofts; as well as the newly built residential towers 44 Monroe. Taylor Place, two 13-story towers which serve as the new residential community of the Downtown campus of Arizona State University, opened in August 2008. A 19-story, 320 room Courtyard and Residence Inn by Marriott opened May 2017 and a new Block 23 Fry's urban grocery and mixed-use high-rise will be completed in 2019.\n\nHistoric Heritage Square is part of Heritage and Science Park on the east end of downtown. It encompasses the only remaining group of residential structures from the original town site of Phoenix.\n\nThe Lath House Pavilion, although completed in 1980, its design is heavily influenced by combining 19th Century concepts of a botanical conservatory, a gazebo, a beer garden and a pedestrian shopping arcade, all of which were common features of early Phoenix architecture. The Pavilion hosts many national and cultural festivals throughout the year.\nThe Rosson House is the cornerstone of a city block dating from the late 19th century. The house has been restored to its Victorian roots and offers tours.\nThe Duplex, built in 1923, is the youngest of the homes on the block. Its sleeping porches constructed with canvas and wood panels, let in the cool evening desert air.\nThe Carriage House is located in the center of the Square. It was built as a mule barn for the Teeter House in 1899.\nThe Silva House, a bungalow with neoclassical revival influences, was built in 1900. The Rose and Crown, an English Pub, now occupies this historical home.\nThe Bouvier-Teeter House was built in 1899. It is now a Victorian Tea Room.\nThe Baird Machine Shop was a commercial structure when it was built in 1929. It is now home to Pizzeria Bianco, which has been named by various sources as the best Pizza in America.\nThe Thomas House was moved to block 15, of Historic Heritage Square in the 1980s to save the home from demolition. This 1909 neoclassical styled building houses Bar Bianco, an adjunct to Pizzeria Bianco.\nThe Stevens- Haugsten House was built in 1901 as a rental property. The building is significant for its representation of the historic California bungalow style built around the turn of the 20th century.\nThe Stevens House, built in 1901 with obvious midwestern influences, now houses The Arizona Doll & Toy Museum.\nDowntown and Central Phoenix are home to several historic neighborhoods ranging from turn-of-the-20th-century Victorian to mid-20th-century modern architecture. Some of them, like the Willo and Encanto-Palmcroft districts, are more established and in demand, while others are still redeveloping. The better-known districts include Coronado, Roosevelt, Encanto-Palmcroft, FQ Story and Willo.\n\nRooted firmly in the City Beautiful movement of planning, the Palmcroft and Encanto Districts were developed starting in the late 1920s. With winding lanes, tree-lined streets, lush landscaping and nearby Encanto Park, this neighborhood resembles more of an English suburb than a Phoenician neighborhood. The district contains many larger, period revival manors, marking a time when it was a getaway from the hustle and bustle of early city life. The Encanto-Palmcroft historic neighborhood is diminutive in size with approximately 330 households. Architecture in Encanto-Palmcroft includes Spanish Colonial, Tudor Revival, Cape Cod and Monterey Revival. The proximity of this quaint Downtown Phoenix neighborhood to Encanto Park represents an approach to suburban planning referred to as “City Beautiful” that evolved in Phoenix as a highly successful achievement. It symbolized a romanticized approach to architecture and the houses tend to “look towards each other,” reinforcing a sense of community. Boundaries: Encanto Boulevard south to McDowell Road; Seventh Avenue west to 15th Avenue\n\nHonored with the first distinction of historical designation in the City of Phoenix, the Roosevelt Neighborhood has a history that is rich and deep. From its architectural milestones still visible today, its importance in Phoenix's original booming tourist trade, and its role as one of the first “streetcar suburbs,” Roosevelt has remained a vital community to the city's past, present, and future. It lies bounded by Central Avenue and 7th Avenue from McDowell to Fillmore and is peppered with buildings and homes of architectural significance. It is a true urban neighborhood, with a walkable scale, close proximity to public transportation, and friendly neighborhood cafes and local businesses.\n\nGreater Coronado consists of three neighborhoods — Historic Coronado, Country Club Park and Brentwood — and includes over 5,000 households and hundreds of businesses. Centrally located near both State Road 51 and Interstate 10, single-family homes feature architectural styles ranging from California Bungalow and Spanish Colonial Revival to ranches and the occasional modern re-do. Boundaries: Thomas Road south to Interstate 10; State Road 51 west to Seventh Street\n\nDeveloped from 1883–1955, Garfield Historic District contains nearly 800 households and contains primarily modest bungalows, Period Revival homes and the city's largest concentration of “pyramid cottages.” Before becoming a residential community Garfield was part of an extensive agricultural tract. Boundaries: Roosevelt Street south to Van Buren Street; 16th Street west to Seventh Street\n\nWillo Historic District has been voted one of the top 10 cottage communities in the United States. Bike-friendly and walk-able to light rail, businesses and cultural attractions, Willo was once considered suburban, and predominantly home to those interested in agricultural pursuits. It's still known for its lush greenery. Boundaries: Thomas Road south to McDowell Road; First Avenue west to Seventh Avenue\n\nLight rail, growing academic campuses and renewed demand for urban living has supercharged development in the Downtown Core. The core offers easy access to restaurants, retail and cultural attractions as the true urban center in the Valley. Boundaries: Fillmore Street south to Pacific Railroad; Seventh Street west to Third Avenue\n\nGrand Avenue's diagonal course breaks up Phoenix's grid and is dominated by local businesses, art studios, converted warehouses, bars, restaurants and restored storefronts. Boundaries: McDowell Road south to Van Buren Street; Seventh Avenue west to 19th Avenue\n\nThe Eastlake Park neighborhood is a traditional African-American enclave in the Downtown area. The main focal point is the park itself, which is the oldest in the city and originally boasted a centrally located lake and pathway. Boundaries: North of Washington Street south to Jefferson Street; 16th Street west to 12th Street\n\nGrant Park is one of 13 neighborhoods in the community of Central City South. Latino heritage and culture is strong in Grant Park, and is home to Friendly House Inc., which has served new immigrants since 1915; American Legion Post 41, the first Legion to allow Hispanics as members after World War II; El Portal Restaurant; St. Mary's Catholic Church, which is on the Hispanic historical registry; Grant Park Community Garden; La Canasta Mexican Restaurant and the Grant Park Community Center, famous for its “Midnight Basketball Classic” and other youth programs.\nBoundaries: Grant Street south to Buckeye Road; Central Avenue west to Seventh Avenue\n\nThe Evans-Churchill neighborhood sits directly adjacent to the Downtown Core and is home to Roosevelt Row — the nationally recognized arts district that hosts First Fridays. Since 1994 this monthly event has grown to become the largest monthly artwalk in the United States. Increasing interest in this area has prompted Roosevelt Row to becoming more pedestrian-friendly and it is supportive of small local independent businesses that give downtown Phoenix character. The area's development is overseen by the non-profit Roosevelt Row Community Development Corporation. With a mix of single-family homes and infill mid-rise developments, this neighborhood serves as a vibrant and arts-focused transitional area between the dense core and surrounding historic districts. Boundaries: McDowell Road south to Fillmore Street; Seventh Street west to Central Avenue\n\nEmerging businesses, community gardens and thriving programs for adults and youths are the hallmarks of this close-knit neighborhood located south of Chase Field. Attractions include Bentley Projects, the George Washington Carver Museum and Cultural Center, Central Park Neighborhood Community Center, The Levine Machine and Phoenix Day Child & Family Center, which has served the community since 1915. Central Park Phoenix is one of 13 neighborhoods in the Central City South Community. Boundaries: Lincoln Street south to Buckeye Road; 7th Street west to Central Avenue\n\nThe quaint F.Q. Story neighborhood consists of over 600 households, most built between 1920 through the 1940s, with architectural styles ranging from Spanish Colonial Revival and Tudor to craftsman bungalows and ranch-style homes. This historic Downtown Phoenix neighborhood is named for Francis Quarles Story, who sold wool in Boston and citrus in Los Angeles before expanding to the Salt River Valley of Arizona. Though never a resident of Phoenix, Story is credited for building the Grand Avenue thoroughfare and the subsequent streetcar line. Boundaries: McDowell Road south to Roosevelt Street; Seventh Avenue west to 17th Avenue\n\nLocated just south of the Downtown Core and north of Central City South, the Phoenix Warehouse District was the location of early Phoenix's agricultural shipping, historic Chinatown, rail yard and produce distribution centers. The area's remaining period buildings have been top targets for adaptive reuse and are home to several technological and creative-type businesses. Boundaries: Jackson Street south to Grant Street; 7th Street west to 7th Avenue\n\nDowntown Phoenix is the home of City Hall, Justice Courts, Phoenix Municipal Court, Superior Court of Arizona and Bankruptcy Court. United States Postal Service operates the Downtown Phoenix Post Office at 522 North Central Avenue.\n\nDowntown Phoenix has the Valley Metro Light Rail which consists of 37 stations throughout 3 different cities in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area. Some of the major stations, like Van Buren/1st Avenue and Van Buren/Central Avenue stations, are located in Downtown Phoenix.\n\nMel's Diner, on the outskirts of downtown has been an old Phoenix landmark for decades. It is famous for being the setting for the TV sitcom \"Alice\".\n\nMany movies have been filmed in Phoenix using downtown locations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39895591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39895591", "title": "Employee of the Month (podcast)", "text": "Employee of the Month (podcast)\n\nEmployee of the Month is a talk show hosted by Catie Lazarus that features guests with jobs of interest, ranging from television personalities and musicians to comedians and puppeteers. It began as a live show in 2010 and became a podcast in 2012. Lazarus has hosted live tapings at Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in New York City, 92 Y in Los Angeles and The Bell House in Brooklyn. It has been syndicated for airing on Sirius XM Radio. The show is currently performed and taped live at Joe's Pub in New York City monthly.\n\nLazarus hatched the idea for the podcast when she was frustrated with her own attempt at finding a job, which led her to approach successful people to talk about their work and how they had landed their dream jobs.\n\nIt has over 41,000 followers on SoundCloud as of July 2013.\n\nThe show has been called “beloved” by \"The New York Times\", and \"hilarious\" and \"ambitious\" by BlackBook. \"The New Yorker\" praised the show for its \"extremely notable\" guests and Lazarus' \"decidedly unorthodox\" interview style. \"New York\" featured the show in its \"Seriously Funny\" section, calling Lazarus \"adorable\" as she \"picks the brains of folks with much cooler jobs than yours\".\n\nGothamist wrote that \"Catie Lazarus Is One Of The Finest Live Talk Show Hosts In NYC,\" urging its readers to catch Lazarus and her \"consistently... incredible guests\" at her live show at Joe's Pub in the Village.\n\nJon Stewart chose \"Employee of the Month\" to give his first interview after announcing his decision to retire from the Daily Show in February, 2015. Stewart follows many of his Daily Show collaborators, including Aasif Mandvi, Dave Attell, Wyatt Cenac, Buck Henry, Mo Rocca, David Wain, and Lewis Black as guests on the show; in turn, Lazarus herself appeared in the Daily Show in a sketch about a prequel to Hot Tub Time Machine. Stewart discussed some of his future plans, assuring fans that he was not retiring. Though he plans to spend more time with his family, he suggested that he would continue writing – to which Lazarus later responded by giving him a notebook as a parting gift - and even that he could return to stand-up comedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "52594968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52594968", "title": "Federal City Council", "text": "Federal City Council\n\nFederal City Council is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that promotes economic development in the city of Washington, D.C., in the United States. Incorporated on September 13, 1954, it is one of the most powerful private groups in the city, and is highly influential in Congress. It was the primary backer of a wide range of important projects, including the near-complete razing of Southwest D.C. in favor of redevelopment in the 1950s and 1960s, the construction of the Washington Metro subway system, the construction of the city's first and second convention centers, the construction of the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center, and the construction of the Verizon Center. It has also been successful in pushing for changes in the District of Columbia Public Schools, reform of the federal role in the District of Columbia's finances, and reform of the District's tax structure.\n\nThe association, whose members are largely drawn from the business community, prefers to work behind the scenes and avoid media attention. It is highly influential, although assessments of its influence in the past decade have varied. The organization has also created a number of independent nonprofits and subsidiary bodies, which have worked on range of issues, from waterway restoration to crime.\n\nThe Federal City Council was incorporated on September 13, 1954, \"to develop, stimulate and encourage civic leadership in community development in the National Capitol\". Phil Graham, co-owner and publisher of \"The Washington Post\", was the major force in creating the council. Graham was deeply concerned about the decline of the District of Columbia in the post-World War II period and the city's rapid loss of population and business to suburbs in Maryland and Virginia. Graham was also worried that the Southwest Washington urban renewal project, authorized in 1946 and funded in 1949, would be cancelled, ending the city's best chance at turning itself around. In 1952, Graham held a meeting of like-minded top businessmen in the boardroom of Riggs Bank to discuss formation of an organization to counteract these trends. These discussions led to formation of the Federal City Council in 1954. Membership was largely limited to businesspeople, because the group felt that only private sector money and a business-like approach to development and management could improve the District. Among the original members of the group in 1954 were Graham and Francis Addison, Jr., president of Security Bank and former president of the Washington Board of Trade. George A. Garrett, a former ambassador, was elected the organization's first president on November 16. A fundamental concept which the group agreed upon early in its history was to work behind the scenes and only on projects that can shape the city for 20 years or more.\n\nThe Federal City Council was active in a wide range of issues in the 1950s, including slum clearance, and is credited with successfully lobbying the Eisenhower administration to expedite the razing of much of Southwest Washington It was also involved in an attempt to locate the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency in the District of Columbia, urban planning, demolition of the temporary Main Navy and Munitions Buildings on the National Mall, the site of the proposed D.C. Cultural Center, and the size of the federal payment made to the city in lieu of property taxes. It was particularly active on the Theodore Roosevelt Bridge issue. It pushed hard for a bridge rather than a tunnel, and, once a bridge had been chosen, for the bridge's location to be about upstream from the final location.\n\nUrban planning and the federal contribution to the city's budget continued to occupy some of the Federal City Council's agenda in the early 1960s. But big economic development projects moved to center stage for the organization. It unsuccessfully pushed for a \"Federal City Center\" (a vast complex of government office buildings akin to Federal Triangle) in 1960. The organization also pushed hard for construction of the D.C. Cultural Center, even though it lost the battle to erect the auditorium at L'Enfant Plaza.\n\nIt was far more successful in opposing cancellation of the Southwest Washington urban renewal project, which called for razing nearly all buildings in that quadrant of the city and constructing a new urban center. Although the Federal City Council's specific plans were not adopted, it was deeply involved in the planning process and its studies often relied on by Congress. The Federal City Council even raised money to develop its own concepts for redeveloping downtown and Southwest D.C., and lobbied Congress to have its plans adopted. In 1962, it won adoption of its proposal in the House of Representatives. When the bill died in the Senate at the end of the 87th Congress, it went to the Senate and won passage there in 1963. When the 1963 legislation moved to the House, Representatives John Dowdy and John L. McMillan attached a number of riders to the bill that required competitive bidding, forced federal agencies to give displaced businesses priority in receiving federal assistance, required the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to develop plans for relocating low-income residents, and placed limits on the number of redevelopment projects that could be approved or constructed at any given time. But many liberals in Congress as well as HUD Secretary Robert C. Weaver opposed these riders. The riders were enacted into law. Unwilling to see redevelopment of Southwest D.C. collapse, the Federal City Council agreed to sponsor legislation that would authorize the Redevelopment Land Agency (RLA, the federal bureau overseeing the reconstruction of Southwest D.C.) to conduct redevelopment on the same basis as federal agencies in other cities. Although this meant ignoring the Federal City Council's plans for redevelopment, it allowed the RLA to begin acting quickly and decisively on redevelopment projects.\n\nTwo of the major projects the Federal City Council pushed for in the 1960s were Inner Loop highway system and its associated Three Sisters Bridge, and the Washington Metro subway system. The Inner Loop was strongly opposed by local citizens, who felt it was unnecessary, destroyed many neighborhoods, and despoiled the environment. However, Representative William Natcher, chairman of the Subcommittee on Appropriations for the District of Columbia of the House Committee on Appropriations, was not only a strong advocate of bridge and highway construction but also convinced that construction of the Inner Loop was essential to the growth of the District of Columbia. The Federal City Council, too, advocated the Inner Loop as a response to the flight of retail and light industry for the suburbs (a trend which began in the 1950s). The organization believed that quick and easy automobile access to the city (with lots of inexpensive parking) would draw shoppers and retailers back. A large subway system was equally important, as the Federal City Council concluded that surface transit alone could not meet the needs of the rapidly growing D.C. metropolitan area. The organization pushed hard for construction of Metro even though Representative Natcher threatened to cancel the subway project if the Inner Loop was not constructed. The organization also wished to ensure that wealthier suburbanites would be able to reach the downtown D.C. shopping district, in the hopes this would reverse or at least stop the flight of retail out of the city.\n\nAs part of its Inner Loop push, the Federal City Council asked the City Commission to \"nationalize\" all parking the city. This was a major step, for it meant government ownership of all parking lots, parking garages, and valet parking lots in the city. The Washington Parking Association, a trade association of parking lot owners, strongly opposed the move. Although the City Commission was willing to pass nationalization legislation, there was extensive opposition in Congress (which had the power to overturn any city law), and the measure died.\n\nOther, smaller projects with the Federal City Council worked on during the 1960s included another attempt to get rid of the \"tempos\" on the National Mall, construction of a \"national aquarium\" in East Potomac Park, and a major boost in police to create a \"war on crime\".\n\nThe agenda of the Federal City Council could also work against democracy in the District of Columbia. During the 1960s, there was an increasingly strong push for District of Columbia home rule. Because it supported the vested interests of the status quo, the Federal City Council strongly opposed home rule. It opposed initiatives supported by home rule activists, and often proposed and pushed for the adoption of plans that home rule advocates opposed. In order to win support for its proposals, the Federal City Council raised money to re-elect members of the powerful House Committee on the District of Columbia—most of whom also opposed home rule, as it significantly reduced their power in Congress.\n\nAlthough portions of the Inner Loop were constructed, the majority of highways that comprised the system (including the elements most destructive of neighborhoods and the environment) were cancelled by federal court decisions and by changes in national transportation policy during the late 1960s and the early 1970s. The Three Sisters Bridge project was killed in the House of Representatives in early December 1971. With the Inner Loop dead, the Federal City Council continued to push for city-owned parking and for full funding of the Metro system.\n\nWith federal funds for massive infrastructure development dwindling fast in the early 1970s, the Federal City Council turned its focus to smaller projects that would spur economic development. One of its key issues was the construction of a Dwight D. Eisenhower Convention Center to make the city attractive to large trade association conventions. The push for a convention center began in 1973. Although there was extensive opposition in Congress at first, the Federal City Council lobbied hard for federal approval. This was finally given in 1978. The Washington Convention Center finally opened in December 1982. The Federal City Council also backed a \"D.C. Building Corporation\" to assist developers in obtaining financing for major projects, and pushed the city to create an economic development strategic plan.\n\nAs part of its economic redevelopment initiative, the Federal City Council also sought to repeal rent control laws in the District of Columbia. Rent control, the organization argued, discouraged new housing from being built in the city and retarded the city's economic growth. The city's rent control law, enacted in 1975, was seen as vulnerable by the Federal City Council in 1975 and 1976, as few residents had seen its benefits and did not yet support it. Its repeal attempt was unsuccessful, however.\n\nThe Federal City Council also began unsuccessfully pushing in the late 1970s for a regional economic planning board similar to the urban planning body it had pressed for in the 1950s.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Federal City Council backed two plans—one to reduce flights at Washington National Airport and another to redevelop Buzzard Point—at the opening and close of the decade. Neither plan was implemented. It also released a study in 1980 criticizing the District government for allowing significant deterioration in the city's of water pipes. (The city took no action until a series of major pipeline breaks led to emergency action in 1993.)\nThe concept for a massive \"trade center\", which would become an international headquarters for corporations and trade associations, was a more successful project. In June 1983, the Federal City Council proposed that a huge $300 million structure be built on unused land adjacent to Maine Avenue SW. Despite local citizen opposition, the organization convinced D.C. Mayor Marion Barry to begin pushing the plan through the D.C. City Council and Congress. Opposition from executive branch agencies, however, derailed the plan, and by 1986 the Federal City Council was looking for an alternative site for the building. In late 1986, the association began pushing for construction of the trade center on a parking lot in Federal Triangle, an area originally intended for a major government office building in the 1930s but never built due to the financial distress caused by the Great Depression. This site won near-universal approval, and in 1987 Congress authorized construction of the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center. Donald A. Brown, who chaired the Federal City Council's International Center Task Force, was one of five people nominated to the U.S. International Cultural and Trade Center Commission, which served as a board of supervisors overseeing the construction of the building. Terence Golden, who was director of the federal government's General Services Administration (GSA) and who helped shepherd the legislation authorizing the building through Congress, later was elected chairman of the board of directors of the Federal City Council. Originally intended to cost $363 million, the $818 million Ronald Reagan Building opened on May 5, 1998, after years of funding and construction delays.\n\nThe construction of the Washington Metro and development of the federal government became major issues for the Federal City Council in the mid-1980s. The group received approximately $250,000 in August 1985 to study the transit needs of the area through the year 2000, the first time a group independent of Metro was authorized by the federal government to conduct such a study. The organization's study, released in March 1986, said Metro faced a financial crisis by 2000 caused by significant cuts in federal funds as well as rapidly growing capital improvement needs (such as replacing subway cars and worn equipment and track). In December 1986, the Federal City Council issued a report that recommended that the federal government undertake a 10-year plan to construct new federal office buildings rather than lease space for federal agencies. The proposal seemed to die, but in 1990 the GSA incorporated its key recommendations into a new office space consolidation policy. GSA even proposed building a new United States Department of Transportation headquarters using air rights above the railroad tracks north of Union Station. The financing model for the structure had \"the fingerprints of the Federal City Council all over it.\" The Federal City Council actively pushed for redevelopment of the northwest bank of the Anacostia River as a means of creating room for more federally owned office buildings as well as redeveloping the District of Columbia. The General Services Administration initially tried to lure the Securities and Exchange Commission to Buzzard Point by offering to construct it a new office building there in 1978, but this effort failed. By 1988, however, the Federal City Council was part heavily involved with the city government, the federal government, and private landowners to plan a redevelopment of the warehouse area into apartment and office buildings, parks, and retail space.\n\nIn the late 1980s, the Federal City Council turned its attention to crime rather than development. By this time, Washington, D.C., was suffering from an epidemic of crack cocaine use. The drug made an appearance in the United States in 1981, and by the end of 1986 was deeply entrenched in the District of Columbia. The following year, one study estimated that there were 24,000 drug dealers in the city (38.6 per 1,000 residents), with at least 14,000 of them dealing on a regular basis (at least one day per week). By one estimate, cocaine and crack cocaine use doubled in the city between 1986 and 1987. A private study estimated that one in six African American men in the city were arrested for selling illegal drugs before the age of 21, and by 1990 a shocking one in four African American men in the city had sold drugs before the age of 30. By 1990, the District of Columbia had the nation's highest rate of drug addiction (32.9 per 1,000 residents). The crack cocaine epidemic drove the city's murder rate in 1988 to 372, and 80 percent of the city's murders were drug-related. With drug-related crime outstripping by far economic development as the city's largest problem, in 1986 the Federal City Council joined with the Community Foundation, the Greater Washington Board of Trade, and the Greater Washington Research Center to form the Washington Fund for the Prevention of Substance Abuse. By October 1988, the Federal City Council also sponsored the creation of the Corporation Against Drug Abuse (CADA), an employer-funded entity to encourage the adoption of stricter drug testing and drug abuse policies in the workplace and to work against drug abuse generally in the community.\n\nAs part of its interest in social programs, the Federal City Council also turned its attention for the first time to the District of Columbia Public Schools (DCPS). DCPS Superintendent Andrew E. Jenkins awarded the organization a $500,000 grant to assemble a team of 51 community leaders and review DCPS curricula, budget, extra-curricular programs, and educational goals and priorities. The grant was one of the largest ever made by the school system. The report, due in June 1989, was expected to guide the DCPS system through the 1990s. To build support for implementing the report's findings, the council created the D.C. Committee on Public Education (a group of parents and business, religious, and civic leaders), in 1988. When released on June 20, 1989, the report recommended spending $355 million over the next five years to extend the school day by five hours (to a 7 A.M. to 6 P.M. schedule); extend the school year by 40 days; construct new schools; repair existing schools; and add stronger math and science programs and multicultural education to the curriculum. To pay for the plan, the Federal City Council's team suggested cutting administrative costs by $8.5 million, eliminating 400 central staff positions, closing some schools, and selling some school property. The Committee on Public Education remained active for many years, issuing reports critical of the public school system.\n\nIn 1989, the Federal City Council issued a report castigating the government of the District of Columbia for allowing the city's roads to deteriorate. The report noted that the city spent just $5 million a year on road repair, which it used almost exclusively for temporary patches rather than permanent repair, upgrades, and maintenance. The report identified a $1.6 billion backlog in street maintenance projects. The backlogs led the city to separate its road maintenance, repair, and construction functions from the District of Columbia Department of Public Works, creating a new District Department of Transportation in 2002.\n\nThe Federal City Council helped win financing for a new Washington Convention Center. The existing convention center opened on December 10, 1982. But just eight years later, the facility's small size and a nationwide boom in the construction of large convention centers had caused the facility to see a dramatic drop in business. The Federal City Council pushed hard for the construction of a new, much larger convention center, and helped the city fashion ways to finance it. When the project encountered resistance from the business community and Congress, the Federal City Council mobilized its membership to come out publicly in support of the arena. In May 1990, the city unveiled plans for a new $685 million, convention center backed by the Federal City Council and the Board of Trade. Ground was broken for the new Walter E. Washington Convention Center on October 2, 1998.\n\nAnother project which the Federal City Council supported was construction of the MCI Center (now the Verizon Center) in Chinatown. Along with the Greater Washington Board of Trade and other private groups, the Federal City Council—not public officials, fans, or sports interests—pushed for a new arena downtown. Abe Pollin was the owner of the Washington Capitals and Washington Bullets, professional hockey and basketball teams (respectively) which played at the Capital Centre in Landover, Maryland. But the Capital Centre was a small, aging facility, and there seemed an opportunity to bring the teams back into the District of Columbia. The effort began in the summer of 1993, when Federal City Council president Ann Dore McLaughlin had a casual conversation with Gordon Gund, owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers professional basketball team, and learned of the \"Cleveland model\" for a public-private partnership to build a basketball arena in downtown Cleveland, Ohio. McLaughlin later shared this information with then-D.C. Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly, who was enthusiastic but emphasized that the private sector must take the lead on the effort. McLaughlin began having talks with Pollin's friends and associates, and members of Pollin's staff. In early November, the Board of Trade sought and won a meeting with Pollin. Pollin said he had received several offers to sell both teams, and was likely to do so unless a first-class sports arena could be built. On December 16, the Federal City Council hosted a meeting with the Board of Trade, Chamber of Commerce, and city officials to decide to take action. The Federal City Council, Board of Trade, and D.C. Chamber of Commerce agreed at the meeting to jointly conduct a study of the arena issue. The study identified several challenges, but also discovered that many sports teams were moving back into downtown areas from suburban sites. The study also identified several potential sites for the new arena. The city dropped out of the project so as not to appear to be raiding another jurisdiction's sports teams. The Greater Washington Board of Trade initially led talks with Pollin, which began in mid-January, until Maryland officials pointed out that—as a representative of businesses in Maryland and Virginia, not just D.C.—the group had a conflict of interest. Wanting to bring the sports teams back to the city, the Federal City Council took over the talks and successfully convinced Pollin to move his teams. The Federal City Council hired several nationally known sports arena and financial consultants to conduct research into the financial feasibility of the proposed arena. These consultants also participated in talks with Pollin. The Federal City Council also successfully pressed the city to provide financing for the project and to help clear away permitting and construction hurdles. Construction on the MCI Center began in 1994 and ended in 1995.\n\nThe Federal City Council was less successful in keeping the Washington Redskins professional football team in town. In 1991 and 1992, team owner Jack Kent Cooke wanted a new stadium, but the cash-strapped city wanted to renovate Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium. When talks between the city and Cooke broke down, Federal City Council officials tried to restart them. Cooke cancelled the talks, and then announced he was building a new stadium in Landover, Maryland.\n\nThe Federal City Council and its Committee on Public Education remained active on education issues in the 1990s. The council promoted privatization of the city's public schools in early 1994, and the committee issued a major report in January 1995 strongly criticizing the performance of the District of Columbia Public Schools. Although there were some improvements, the school system had declined in quality in the past six years, the report said. In June 1995, the Federal City Council endorsed private management of low-performing schools.\n\nThe Federal City Council also opposed casino gambling in the District, and paid for a study of the District's finances which was highly critical of the city's excessive spending and lack of revenue. It supported a 1995 plan by Mayor Marion Barry to spend $2 billion improving New York Avenue NE, efforts to build a local cultural center, downtown revitalization, an effort to give the District a delegate in the United States Senate, and a National Museum of American Music (to be part of the Smithsonian Institution).\n\nIn the late 1990s, the Federal City Council adopted its first strategic plan.\n\nUnder the leadership of chairman Terence Golden in the late 1990s and early 2000s, the Federal City Council began changing its focus away from big-budget infrastructure projects and toward more \"community living\" initiatives such as the creation of affordable housing, improved public schools, anti-drug and anti-crime initiatives, and support programs for at-risk youth. The organization spent two years trying to convince the federal government to reopen Pennsylvania Avenue NW in front of the White House (to no avail) pushed a Constitutional amendment to give the District a seat in the House, and supported a legal brief in \"District of Columbia v. Heller\", 554 U.S. 570 (2008), supporting the city's strict gun control law. It did, however, support one major construction project, the new Nationals Park (a baseball stadium for the city's new Major League Baseball franchise, the Washington Nationals).\n\nEducation reform continued to draw the organization's attention as well. The Federal City Council funded a study of the school system's administration, staff training, and curriculum by McKinsey & Company in 2001. The study led the D.C. Public Schools to adopt a five-year plan, titled \"Business Plan for Strategic Reform\", for making system wide improvements. Two years later, the organization partnered with the Kimsey Foundation and the Morino Institute to fund on-the-job training for 40 school principals over five years. In 2004, the Federal City Council led an effort to raise private money to help improve the salary of the Superintendent of the District of Columbia Public Schools. The move came as the city struggled to find a replacement for Paul L. Vance, who resigned in November 2003. In 2006, the organization quietly told city officials that it was deeply unhappy with the leadership provided by Clifford P. Janey, Vance's successor. It also funded a $400,000 study the same year on behalf of incoming mayor Adrian Fenty on how to take over the public school system. Fenty subsequently proposed major legislative changes that gave the mayor far greater power over the DCPS. These were approved by the city council in April 2007 and permitted to become law by the United States Congress. Janney was fired by Mayor Adrian Fenty on June 12, 2007, and Michelle Rhee installed as the city's new Chancellor of Public Schools. Certain statements by Rhee were misconstrued by opponents of the school takeover, who said that Rhee had to seek Federal City Council approval of all major city schools policy changes. Although Rhee never made any such statement, the claims gained some traction among some public school activists. But the Federal City Council was, according to \"The Washington Post\" reporter Mike DeBonis, \"a prime supporter of Fenty's education reform efforts.\"\n\nReform of city finances and government also occupied the Federal City Council. In 2001, at the behest of Natwar M. Gandhi, D.C.'s chief financial officer, the organization agreed to update its 1994 study on city revenues in order to build a consensus in Congress for a restructuring of the District's financing mechanisms. The report, \"Assessing the District's Financial Position\", released in March 2002, called for a commuter tax and restoration of an annual federal payment in lieu of property taxes. The report also warned of half-billion dollar budget deficits if city spending were not slashed and tax cuts deferred. In 2006, the organization raised $100,000 to help incoming chairman of the Council of the District of Columbia, Vincent C. Gray, fund a multiyear strategy plan for council action. It also raised more than $400,000 to help Fenty pay for an improved candidate recruitment process for his mayoral cabinet, and for a study on how to take over the public school system.\n\nFor the first time since the 1980s, the organization made another major push to improve funding for Metro. In September 2004, the Federal City Council joined with the Board of Trade and the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments to create a task force to study Metro's revenues and financing. The group proposed that local governments dedicate a portion of their sales tax to Metro, but the plan generated no interest by local or state governments.\n\nIn the 2010s, the Federal City Council continued to tackle many small issues in an attempt to improve the livability of Washington, D.C. These included improving the streetscape of 10th Street SW (also known as L'Enfant Promenade), adding a bus-only lane and streetcar to K Street NW in downtown, reopening Pennsylvania Avenue NW near the White House, addressing congestion on downtown streets, improving D.C.'s tourism industry, supporting the 2015 merger between Exelon and Pepco.\n\nIn 2011, the Federal City Council began work on a new strategic plan to guide the organization's decision-making. It was the first strategic plan for the organization in more than a decade. The plan identified four key priorities: Lowering unemployment by developing new industries (its top priority), ensuring the city's financial stability and integrity (its second priority), improving public education, and improving city infrastructure. By design, the strategic plan closely tracked the major priorities of newly elected Mayor Vincent C. Gray. In April 2012, the Federal City Council hired former mayor Anthony Williams as its new executive director. He replaced eight-year veteran John W. Hill, Jr. Williams reiterated the organization's focus on jobs, government effectiveness and efficiency, and improvements to infrastructure. Williams' appointment was widely seen by the news media as a significant boost to the organization's influence.\n\nTo work toward the goal of lower unemployment, the Federal City Council opposed enactment in 2013 of a \"living wage\" law in the District of Columbia. The organization also joined an effort, spearheaded by The 2030 Group, to plan a multi-decade strategy for helping seven key industries in the region grow as well as how to encourage greater economic diversification.\n\nTax issues largely occupied the group's attention when it came to the city's financial stability. The Federal City Council supported a successful city sales tax on gym memberships and yoga classes that generated $5 million a year. The organization backed the \"wellness tax\" in order to pay for a city council-enacted income tax cut that cost $143 million a year. The Federal City Council also supported the D.C. Tax Revision Commission, and members of the council served on the commission. The commission recommended changes to the District's tax code (including adding a bracket for middle-income earners and an increase in the standard deduction) which made it the second-most progressive in the nation. However, the organization also supported a bid to make the District of Columbia the American host-city candidate for the 2024 Summer Olympics. As the Federal City Council saw it, the bid gave the region an opportunity to engage in forward-looking plans that would ensure the region's economic stability by developing infrastructure, transportation, tourism, cultural facilities, and sporting venues that would last for 30 to 40 years.\n\nThe Federal City Council was active on a much wider range of infrastructure initiatives. It advocated in 2012 creation of a public-private investment trust fund to help rebuild and improve the city's parks, public transit system, and sewer system. It established an internal task force to identify new means of financing bridge improvement, repair, and replacement; a new city jail; and improvements to city-owned golf courses. In 2013, the organization announced the creation of the Anacostia Waterfront Trust to coordinate regional efforts to end the continuing pollution of the Anacostia River and to begin cleanup efforts of the riverbed. Doug Siglin, formerly the federal affairs director for the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, was named executive director of the Trust. The Federal City Council agreed to back a multibillion-dollar federal plan to end raw sewage flows into the river; mitigation of greywater, surface runoff, and urban runoff into the river; and research into the best way to address the deep deposits of dangerous contaminants on the river bottom. As part of its Anacostia River initiative, the council supported legislation (enacted in 2014) banning the use of polystyrene foam containers for use by food carryout providers. It also continued work to preserve and improve Union Station, and worked closely with the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation, Amtrak, the U.S. Department of Transportation, and local real estate developer Akridge to begin work on Burnham Place—a $1.5 billion mixed-use development that will build a new passenger terminal and retail, residential, and office buildings over the tracks (while adding a large parking garage beneath the tracks). This included studying the infrastructure and architectural/engineering aspects of Union Station and identifying as many sources for funding and financing as possible. From 2010 to 2015, the Federal City Council remained largely quiet on issues facing Metro and DC Streetcar, however. However, the organization did undertake a study of Metro in 2015 which led to a November 2016 report that called for a federal takeover of the transit agency if its three state-level partners did not agree to radically reconstitute Metro's governance structure. The report called for Metro's board to be drastically reduced in number and to be composed of transit professionals rather than political appointees. It also called for weaker protections for Metro's trade unions, and for each state-level partner to adopt a dedicated tax to support Metro's capital needs and operations. The Federal City Council said it would attempt to build a coalition, consisting primarily of the region's largest employers and businesses with the most revenue, to support the changes. Within two weeks, the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments and the Greater Washington Board of Trade had signed on to the proposals. The state of Virginia agreed to back the idea of a smaller, more professional board.\n\nThe Federal City Council was somewhat inactive on education reform for the first half of the 2010s. It quietly supported the education reforms planned and implemented by public schools Chancellor Michelle Rhee and her successor, Kaya Henderson. The council first drew media attention in 2016, when the organization's executive director agreed to co-chair a mayoral panel studying improvements to the city's public and charter schools.\n\nBy 2016, the Federal City Council had expanded on its strategic plan by agreeing conduct more research into the city's problems, as well as act as a lobbyist for business before the Council of the District of Columbia. Lobbying came to the forefront due to the formation in 2001 of the DC Fiscal Policy Institute, a progressive think tank focused on local issues founded by the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. As part of its lobbying effort, the Federal City Council sent representatives on a trade mission to China and worked to defeat a proposed paid family leave bill.\n\nOn several occasions, the Federal City Council has created subsidiary organizations to take on tasks of a specific geographic or technical nature. Some of these have proven highly influential in themselves. Short-term initiatives include a 1963 effort to demolish temporary building on the National Mall, a 1988 task force to win federal approval for the construction of an international trade center, the early 1990s Downtown Interactive Task Force, a 2002 effort to lobby the federal government for more money for the District of Columbia (led by Robert G. Liberatore, a senior vice president at DaimlerChrysler), and a 2012 working group to identify new means of financing infrastructure.\n\nThe Federal City Council has, on occasion, created longer-lived, semi-permanent or permanent subsidiaries or organizations as well.\n\nThe first longer-term project initiated by the Federal City Council was Downtown Progress. In 1958, the Federal City Council recommended the creation of a new organization to attract business investment in the former retail core of the District of Columbia. On April 1, 1960, this organization, the National Capital Downtown Committee, Inc.—better known as \"Downtown Progress\"—was formed as a joint effort of the Federal City Council and a federal agency, the National Capital Planning Commission. Knox Banner was Downtown Progress' long-time leader. The group, which represented primarily very large businesses, produced a number of extensive, expensive plans to redevelop downtown D.C. and build an extensive network of subway lines beneath the area. The organization helped to win the creation of the Washington Metro, and development of the Washington Convention Center. It was not successful, however, in pushing for a similar network of underground tunnels and roadways that would accommodate rapid-transit buses and truck delivery. Downtown Progress also worked closely with the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation to develop plans for the restoration and redevelopment of Pennsylvania Avenue NW in the 1960s and 1970s, and worked with the National Park Service to restore Ford's Theatre in 1968.\n\nThe second long-term organization created by the Federal City Council was the Municipal Research Bureau. Created in 1974, it was led by Philip M. Dearborn, Jr., an expert in municipal finance and director of the Brookings Institution's Greater Washington Research Program. Its mission was to provide general research on issues important to the District of Columbia. It merged with the Washington Center for Metropolitan Studies in 1978 to become the Greater Washington Research Center. The Greater Washington Research Center merged with the Brookings Institution in 2001.\n\nIn 1986, the Federal City Council spawned the Economic Club of Washington. The group formed in response to the nationalization and globalization of many D.C. businesses, as well as the rapid increase in \"new economy\" businesses inside the city and in the surrounding suburbs. There was a sense that many of the area's mid- and top-level managers were not from the area, felt little attachment to the region, and had few friends in the city. The Economic Club was founded by Federal City Council members Ed Hoffman (president of Woodward & Lothrop) and R. Robert Linowes (a successful local attorney). The goal was two-fold: First, to provide a way for business leaders to socialize, become acquainted with one another, and form a sense of community; second, to expose its members to new thinking and ideas in the realm of economics. The group has since become \"a cornerstone of the Washington business community\", largely on the basis of its ability to bring a group of top-level business leaders together to listen to policymakers. (It does not advocate for, lobby on behalf of, or speak for the business community.)\n\nD.C. Committee on Public Education (a group of parents and business, religious, and civic leaders), in 1988. When released on June 20, 1989, the report recommended spending $355 million over the next five years to extend the school day by five hours (to a 7 A.M. to 6 P.M. schedule); extend the school year by 40 days; construct new schools; repair existing schools; and add stronger math and science programs and multicultural education to the curriculum. To pay for the plan, the Federal City Council's team suggested cutting administrative costs by $8.5 million, eliminating 400 central staff positions, closing some schools, and selling some school property. The Committee on Public Education remained active for many years, issuing reports critical of the public school system.\n\nAnother major project of the Federal City Council was Agenda Progress. This project came about in 1991 after former President Jimmy Carter asked members of the Federal City Council whether they believed their efforts would completely turn the city around in five to ten years. None did. Agenda Process was launched shortly after Carter's speech as a means to identify projects and mechanisms that would meet the challenge Carter set for the group.\n\nAgenda Progress spent 1993 and 1994 cooperating with the Brookings Institution on a study of the finances of the District of Columbia. This study deeply influenced the Clinton administration's decision to impose the District of Columbia Financial Control Board on the city in 1995.\n\nIn 1995, Agenda Progress was renamed D.C. Agenda, and led by former Barry administration official James O. Gibson. Its original purpose was to serve as an unofficial transition committee at the start of Marion Barry's fourth term (1995 to 1999) as mayor. It represented the interests of large corporations and nonprofits doing business with city, providing them with research and technical assistance. In time, D.C. Agenda shifted its focus to building coalitions to support its agenda on city governance and financial/tax reform, improved support for economic development, neighborhood redevelopment, and at-risk youth intervention. In some cases, D.C. Agenda mimicked or implemented city functions and acted as a liaison with corporations or nonprofits to implement public policy. D.C. Agenda also had a subsidiary body, the D.C. Agenda Support Corporation, led by former District of Columbia Administrator Carol Thompson Cole. D.C. Agenda had several subcommittees as well, including an Economic Development Strategy Group (organized in 1996 and led by local attorney Dana Stebbins).\n\nIn 1997, D.C. Agenda proposed creating a nonprofit, tax-exempt, public-private economic development corporation. The organization, dominated by private developers, would have broad power (including eminent domain and the right to own property) to direct planning and engage in redevelopment of the city's downtown and business corridors. The proposal asked for $50 million in cash from the federal government (with 40 percent earmarked for redevelopment efforts by other nonprofits), and $250 million in redistributable tax credits and surplus federal property. The D.C. Agenda proposal became the National Capital Revitalization Corp., which was created by law adopted by the Council of the District of Columbia in April 1998.\n\nD.C. Agenda created the nonprofit D.C. Children and Youth Investment Trust Corporation in 1999. The trust worked to obtain government and corporate grants to help at-risk youth and build after-school programs at city public schools. After several years of mismanagement, the trust collapsed and dissolved in April 2016.\n\nIn 2000, D.C. Agenda began collecting funds from the public as part of a political campaign to support a referendum that would dramatically alter the powers of the D.C. State Board of Education. More than $80,000 was collected from 25 individuals. But the District of Columbia Office of Campaign Finance found that D.C. Agenda had failed to register as a political action committee, as required by law. D.C. Agenda president John H. McKoy agreed to return all the funds to avoid a fine.\n\nD.C. Agenda dissolved in May 2004 after failing to raise the $1.7 million a year its annual budget required. Several of the organization's subsidiary efforts, such as the Neighborhood Information Service, the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation Awards, and Neighborhood College, were transferred to other nonprofits in the area.\n\nThe Washington, DC Police Foundation (also known as the National Capital Police Fund) is a grant-making arm of the Federal City Council which provides grants to the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia (MPD). According to the Federal City Council, the foundation was created in 2000. It made a $10,000 grant to the MPD in 2004 to purchase stolen goods tracking software, and a $30,000 grant in 2005 to allow the MPD to purchase automobiles with GPS tags for use as \"bait cars\". It is unclear how the foundation generates its income.\n\nIn October 2013, the Federal City Council established a new nonprofit, the Anacostia Waterfront Trust, to coordinated regional and federal efforts to prevent the dumping of raw sewage and toxic materials into the Anacostia River, and to research ways in how best to handle the contaminants already on the riverbed. The organization began researching the history of Anacostia Park in 2016, in an attempt to identify past plans for the park. The effort was a prelude to beginning an effort to craft a strategic vision for the park that would allow for its sustainable development. The Trust also supported the D.C. government's plan for trading \"stormwater retention credits\" (similar to carbon credits) among businesses in an effort to reduce low-quality runoff into the Anacostia.\n\nThe Federal City Council is highly influential in real estate development and urban planning issues in the District of Columbia. It is the Federal City Council's focus on construction and development that, according to \"The Washington Post\" reporter David Leonhardt, has allowed the organization to be at the forefront in promoting \"almost every major downtown development project since World War II\", including Southwest urban renewal, the entire Washington Metro, the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation, the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center, and the renovation of Union Station. In the late 1960s through the late 1970s, \"The Washington Post\" said, the organization \"sometimes carried more clout on Capitol Hill than the District's political leadership.\" \"Post\" columnist Colbert I. King said its power rivaled that of the city council in 2006, while \"Post\" reporters Marc Fisher and Valerie Strauss in 1997 said the group consisted of \"Washington's corporate and governmental elite\". Mark Bisnow of the \"Washington Business Journal\" called the Federal City Council \"the most important organization in Washington you've never heard of\" in 2005 and \"Post\" reporter Mike DeBonis described it as \"the city's ultimate conglomeration of economic power\". \"Post\" reporter Jerry Knight called the organization \"self-appointed...business Brahmins\" in 1989, while Colbert I. King said in 2007 that the Federal City Council was synonymous with the Washington establishment.\n\nIn 2012, however, \"The Washington Post\" business columnist Steven Pearlstein argued that the Federal City Council lost much of its influence in the first decade of the 21st century. He argued that, in part, the organization was a victim of its success, having accomplished most of its goals. This has allowed members of the organization to turn their attention elsewhere. He also asserted it lacked effective and visionary leadership, that globalization of local businesses had robbed the organization of support, that excessive partisanship at the federal and state levels make progress nearly impossible, and that many of the problems now confronting the city are regional in nature.\n\nIts members admit to being self-interested and looking out for their own interests, but claim they do so only to make the city more livable. The group has also been criticized for ignoring the views of residents affected by Federal City Council projects, of lacking accountability, and pursuing an agenda at odds with those of the public.\n\nThe Federal City Council has a longstanding unofficial policy of avoiding press attention and publicity, although in 2016 executive director Anthony Williams said that the group would be implementing some incremental changes to its policy of avoiding the press.\n\nThe group's media-avoidance policy has been characterized in various ways. \"The Economist\" described it in 1988 as a \"select and shadowy gathering of some of the city's top business and professional people\", \"[o]perating on the old-boy network\". In 1997, reporter Bradford McKee called the organization \"secretive\" and \"a shadow chamber of commerce and phantom government...\" In 2014, Jonathan O'Connell at \"The Washington Post\" called it \"historically insular\". Other descriptions of the group's publicity shyness have been more positive. \"Washington Post\" columnist Colbert I. King has dismissed theories that the organization is \"a clandestine outfit\", noting it merely \"work[s] quietly behind the scenes on city issues\". This view is echoed by \"Post\" reporters Yolanda Woodlee and Ashlee Clark. \"Post\" business columnist Steven Pearlstein has argued that the organization's avoidance of publicity has been one of the reasons it has been so successful.\n\nThe Federal City Council is a private, nonprofit organization of business people, civic leaders, former federal executive branch officials, and local and federal politicians. Membership in the organization is by invitation only. Members are known as \"trustees\", and the membership group is known as the Board of Washington Trustees. The \"Washington Business Journal\" says the organization declines to identify its members. However, as of December 2016 the organization provides the names of about 225 trustees and \"trustee emeritus\" on its Web site.\n\nThe Federal City Council's members include some of the city's wealthiest and most civic-minded businesspeople. The members have been described as the representative of the city's \"business elite\" and the organization as the \"key business voice\" in the city.\n\nReports of the number of members have varied over time. \"The Washington Post\" said it had either 100 or 137 members in 1975, 150 members in 1994, 150 members in 2000 and 2002, 190 members in 2002, more than 250 members in 2003, 194 members in 2004, either 170 or 180 members in 2011, and 170 members in 2012.\n\nAs of 2003, the Federal City Council and the Washington Board of Trade shared many members, George Mason University professor Michael K. Fauntroy characterized the Federal City Council as \"more of an elitist group than the Board\". As late as 1994, the Federal City Council's membership was overwhelmingly white. Terence C. Golden, the organization's chairman in 2004, admitted, \"This was basically a white man's business organization in a city that was very divided\".\n\nThe Federal City Council at one point had an \"ex officio\" class of membership. These individuals include people such as Cabinet secretaries and local university presidents. As of 1994, there were about 50 ex-officio members.\n\nLeadership of the Federal City Council consists of a president and a chairman of the Washington Board of Trustees. A presidential term is one year. A president may succeed him or her self, there are no term limits, and most presidents serve several years. The board meets twice a year. The chairman is assisted by a vice chairman. Additional officers include a secretary; treasurer; two vice presidents; vice presidents for federal relations, membership, membership engagement, nominations, and strategic planning; a general counsel; and the chief executive officer/executive director.\n\nThe board elects 28 members to serve on an executive committee, which meets monthly and governs the organization between board meetings. \"Ex officio\" members of the executive committee (who have no voting rights) include the chairs of the Federal City Council's standing committees and task forces, the chair of the Greater Washington Board of Trade, and the chair of the D.C. Chamber of Commerce.\n\nIn 1958, the organization established a \"national advisory board\" consisting of individuals who may have once lived in Washington, D.C., or who have a strong interest in the city but do not live there. These individuals were often former members of Congress, former executive branch department heads, or corporate executives. This body apparently no longer exists.\n\nA partial list of the presidents of the Federal City Council includes:\n\nThe chairmanship of the board of directors turns over frequently. As of 2016, the chairman was Robert J. Flanagan, construction (Clark Enterprises) and investment (CNF Investments) executive first elected on December 3, 2012. Past chairmen include Washington Gas executive Donald S. Bittinger; and Riggs Bank chairmen Vincent C. Burke and Lewellyn Jennings; hotel executive Terence C. Golden, and construction executive Linda Rabbitt.\n\nThe vice chairman as of 2016 was hotel executive W. Edward Walter.\n\nAlthough funding for the Federal City Council is not clear, its budget is substantial. Its fiscal 2014 budget was $2.2 million, up from $1.5 million in fiscal 2013.\n\nAs of April 2012, the news media reported that the Federal City Council had a small staff of just five people (up from four staff in 1994). However, the organization's Web site lists 11 staff (including two who work for the Anacostia Waterfront Trust). Its internal staff structure is not clear, and there have been many title changes over the years. The organization's day-to-day operations are overseen by a chief executive officer/executive director. Chief executive officers/executive directors have included:\n\nMichael F. Brimmer served as its deputy executive director from 1975 to 1985. He was followed by David Perry, who served from 1985 to about 2005.\n\nOther staff include a chief operating officer, managing director, a director of finance and administration, a director of membership and events, a senior research associate, and a research associate. In 2013, the position of managing director was retitled deputy executive director.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1177863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1177863", "title": "Fellow of the American College of Surgeons", "text": "Fellow of the American College of Surgeons\n\nFellow of the American College of Surgeons, often listed as \"FACS\", is a post-nominal title used to indicate that the surgeon's education and training, professional qualifications, surgical competence, and ethical conduct have passed a rigorous evaluation, and have been found to be consistent with the high standards established and demanded by said College. In order to apply for membership, a surgeon typically must be certified by a board member of the American Board of Medical Specialties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22964577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22964577", "title": "Financial World", "text": "Financial World\n\nFinancial World was the United States' oldest business magazine before going out of business in 1998. In the magazine's later years of publication, its signature issue was the \"Sports Franchise Valuation Issue\". In its last years this feature was prepared by Andrew Zimbalist who is now a contributor to \"Forbes Magazine\".\n\n\"Financial World\" was founded in 1902. It was purchased in 1983 by Carl Lindner, Jr. and later sold to Barry Rupp, Steve Rupp, and Timothy Draper in 1995. In 1998, the magazine stopped printing and closed its business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35927007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35927007", "title": "Francisco Ivens de Sá Dias Branco", "text": "Francisco Ivens de Sá Dias Branco\n\nFrancisco Ivens de Sá Dias Branco (August 3, 1934 – June 24, 2016) was a Brazilian businessman and one of the richest people in the world according to \"Forbes\" magazine, with an estimated net worth of $4.2 billion in January 2015.\n\nHe was born on August 3, 1934, in Cedro, Ceará, son of Manuel Dias Branco and Maria Vidal de Sa Branco, both of Portuguese ancestry. Ivens was married to Maria Consuelo Leon Scott Dias Branco, their born children: Francisco Ivens, Francisco Marcos, Claudio Francisco, Maria Regina and Maria das Gracas. He is considered the first billionaire in the Northeast region of Brazil (the poorest).\n\nAs a business dynamic and entrepreneurial activities in the sector in which it operates, participated in two specialization courses for the industrial production of biscuits and pasta, made in Germany and England. Promotes travel abroad each year in order to attend Congresses and conferences related to his business. His Business also extend to the construction industry and hospitality. Ivens was chairman of the board of the group.\n\nHis performance as a business man received great boost from the relocation of the factory to Fortaleza Br, where he set an enterprise with 62,000 meters square covered area and served as a landmark for the location of various projects on site.\n\nDiversified its activities with persistence and determination, and the group consisting of M. Dias Branco S / A - Com and Ind, M. Adm. And Dias Branco Investments Ltd., White Real Estate Ltd. Days; Idibra Incorporadora Ltda; Idibra Food Products From Maranhão and De Natal Services, Automotive Services Ltd.; Fabripan Industrial Ltda, Hotel Praia Centro S / A; Rural Enterprise Valley Gurguéia S / A ; New Town Real Estate Ltd.; Finopan Industrial Ltda, Fasal - St. Anthony Farm Company Ltd. And Ind. E De Vegetables Products Ltd., occupying positions of importance in the management of companies, which employ, as a whole, about 5,000 workers.\n\n"}
{"id": "55392952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55392952", "title": "Fraser Ainsworth", "text": "Fraser Ainsworth\n\nEric Fraser Ainsworth (known as Fraser Ainsworth) is a South Australian businessperson active in the energy and resources sectors. He received a Centenary Medal in 2001 and became a Member of the Order of Australia in 2003. He retired from his position as chairman of Horizon Oil Ltd in 2015 and was inducted into the Australian Institute of Energy's Hall of Fame the same year.\n\nIn March 2017, Ainsworth signed an open letter calling for the Government of South Australia to continue to investigate the \"opportunity to develop an international used nuclear fuel management industry\" identified by the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Royal Commission in 2015-16. \n\nFraser Ainsworth and his wife Kelly placed their Millswood home on the market in June 2017 with an anticipated sale price of $AUD 3.5-3.7 million. \n"}
{"id": "26219545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26219545", "title": "G. Yafit", "text": "G. Yafit\n\nYafit Greenberg (, born 1951), commonly known as G. Yafit (, \"Gimmel Yafit\"), is an Israeli businesswoman specialising in advertising.\n\nGreenberg was born in Bnei Brak in 1951 to a traditionalist Jewish family who had immigrated from Tripoli in Libya, and was one of five daughters. She studied geography and education at Bar-Ilan University. She began working as an accountant at for Hilton Hotels, but switched to advertising, establishing the G. Yafit company in 1977. The company initially posted advertisements in newspapers, the first of which was an advert for Tadiran refrigerators in \"Yedioth Ahronoth\". When commercial television began broadcasting in 1993, she began offering low-cost advertisement slots in a similar style to the newspaper adverts. Her unusual advertising style sees her front the advert herself to talk about the product. In recent years her daughter-in-law, Maya Yeshayahu, has appeared alongside her in the adverts.\n"}
{"id": "35139829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35139829", "title": "Göran Ehrnrooth", "text": "Göran Ehrnrooth\n\nGöran Ehrnrooth (1 April 1905 Helsinki – 9 January 1996 Helsinki) was a bank manager in Union Bank (Pohjoismaiden Yhdyspankki, later after several mergers Nordea. Göran Ehrnrooth worked for the Union Bank since 1933. He launched Mandatum. His successor was Mika Tiivola.\n\nThe family business included the paper and board factory Kaukas and oil business Petko, that was later sold to British Petroleum. Investments e.g. in the paper factory Ahlström Oy, Hyvilla and Tampella.\n\nGöran Ehrnrooth was married to Louise von Julin, daughter of Elsa Lovisa Standertskjöld and Jacob von Julin (1906–1987), the CEO of Kaukas paper factory.\nTheir children are Casimir Ehrnrooth (b. 1931) CEO UPM-Kymmene, Göran J. Ehrnrooth (b. 1934) CEO Fiskars, Robert Ehrnrooth (b. 1939) CEO EFFOA-Suomen Höyrylaiva (Silja Line) and Elsa Margaretha Louise Fromond (b. 1942).\n"}
{"id": "6105524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6105524", "title": "Hans Hertell", "text": "Hans Hertell\n\nHans Helmut Hertell (born 1950/1951, San Juan, Puerto Rico) is a former United States Ambassador to the Dominican Republic. Nominated by President George W. Bush in the summer of 2001, Hertell was sworn in as Ambassador on November 8, 2001, and began his duties in the Dominican Republic on November 29, 2001. When he finished his tour on May 1, 2007, Ambassador Hertell was the second longest serving U.S. Ambassador in the world.\n\nHertell was a co-founder of Goldman, Antonetti, Ferraiuoli, Axtmayer and Hertell, now the third largest full service law firm in Puerto Rico. From 1992-96, Hertell was managing director for the Caribbean and Latin America affairs at \"Black, Kelly, Scruggs & Healey\", a government and public affairs company based in Washington, D.C. In 1989, he served as a member of the Commission to Review U.S. Magistrates for Reappointment of the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico. Between 1982-84, he served as political and legal advisor to the Governor of Puerto Rico, as well as to the Attorney General, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Treasury of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.\n\nHertell was sworn in as the United States Ambassador to the Dominican Republic on November 8, 2001. At the time the Dominican Republic was the fourth largest trading partner of the United States in the Western Hemisphere after Canada, Brazil and Mexico and the largest economy in Central America and the Caribbean. In April 2007, Hertell officially left his post as ambassador. He was replaced by Chargé d'affaires Roland W. Bullen, who served as the interim head of the embassy until mid-November 2007. On November 15, 2007, P. Robert Fannin was sworn in as the new ambassador.\n\nHertell remains active in fundraising for the Republican Party. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Fordham University of New York City and a juris doctor from the University of Puerto Rico. He is also involved with the operations and investments of the Barrick Gold Corporation in the Dominican Republic. He has been the Chairman of the Board at U.S. Precious Metals, Inc since January 9, 2015. He has been a Director of U.S. Precious Metals, Inc since May 31, 2013 and Colt Resources Inc. since April 14, 2015. He also serves as a Director of InterEnergy Holdings. In 2009, Hertell lobbied with Dominican authorities for the required permissions and licenses.\n"}
{"id": "5180310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5180310", "title": "Helmsley Building", "text": "Helmsley Building\n\nThe Helmsley Building is a 35-story building located at 230 Park Avenue between East 45th and East 46th Streets in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, which was built in 1929 as the New York Central Building, and was designed by Warren & Wetmore, the architects of Grand Central Terminal, in the Beaux-Arts style. Before the completion of the Pan Am Building—now the MetLife Building—this building stood out over the city's second most prestigious avenue as the tallest structure in the great \"Terminal City\" complex around Grand Central.\n\nTraffic exits and enters the Park Avenue Viaduct through the building, through two portals, one for uptown traffic and one for downtown. They connect to Park Avenue proper at East 46th Street.\n\nThe building was designated a New York City Landmark in 1987.\n\nBefore the electrification of the New York Central Railroad in 1912–1913, the neighborhood north of Grand Central Terminal was one of open-air railway yards and tracks used by steam locomotives. The electrification and subsequent covering of the yards enabled the continuation of Park Avenue to the north and the construction of new buildings (with curious foundations). Among them was the New York Central Building.\n\nIn 1913, New York Central unveiled a concept for a visual termination point in the city. Although the original plan was to have this termination point be over New York Central's Grand Central Terminal, the concept was instead realized in the form of The New York Central Building just across the street to the north. The New York Central Railroad Company built their 34-story headquarters at 230 Park Ave., New York City, New York in 1929.\n\nOn September 10, 1931, capo di tutti capi Salvatore Maranzano was murdered in his ninth-floor office here by hitmen sent by Lucky Luciano and Vito Genovese, ambitious underlings whom Maranzano had hired Vincent \"Mad Dog\" Coll to kill.\n\nThe building is a slab-sided skyscraper between East 45th and East 46th Street, with a distinctive design that includes a means of transporting Park Avenue from street level to the divided aerial highway that passes through the building, and then around Grand Central Terminal to 42nd Street, and then back to street level. The top of the building is pyramidal, and capped by an ornate cupola.\n\n\"The impressive lobby, planned as a corridor connecting 45th and 46th Streets, echoes the magnificence of the exterior. The design and ornamentation celebrate the prowess of the New York Central Railroad, which had its headquarters on the premises. A sense of imperial grandeur is created by marble walls and bronze detail, which includes extensive use of the railroad’s initials. The Chinese Red elevator doors open into cabs with red walls, wood moldings, gift domes, and painted cloudscapes\".\n\nWhen New York Central sold the building, General Tire & Rubber Company renamed the building the New York General Building. The building was easily renamed as the \"C\" and \"T\" in Central were chiseled into \"G\" and \"E\" respectively.\n\nWhen General Tire & Rubber Company sold the building to Helmsley-Spear, Leona Helmsley renamed the building The Helmsley Building, which is its current name. The deal in which the ownership of this building, which was owned by the Helmsley-Spear Management until August 1998, changed hands stipulated that the building would not be renamed again. The building was purchased by Max Capital for $253 million, but in 2006 was sold again to Istithmar, an investment firm owned by the royal family of Dubai, for $705 million. It was later sold to Goldman Sachs in 2007 for over $1 billion.\n\nIn May 2015, the building was sold for $1.2 billion to property firm RXR Realty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19551888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19551888", "title": "INID", "text": "INID\n\nINID is an acronym for Internationally agreed Numbers for the Identification of (bibliographic) Data. INID codes are used by patent offices worldwide for indicating specific bibliographic data items on the title pages of patents and patent application publications. INID codes use Arabic numerals, and so are language-independent. For example, number \"(30)\" indicates priority data, and \"(51)\" technical area according to the International Patent Classification (IPC).\n\nINID codes are standardised by World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in ST.9.\n"}
{"id": "37356580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37356580", "title": "Independent Contractors Australia", "text": "Independent Contractors Australia\n\nIndependent Contractors of Australia (ICA) was established in 1999, with the aim to create a national association to represent independent contractors in the Australian workplace. Independent contractors operate in the workplace by contracting out their services rather than being engaged under an employment agreement. They are able to be distinguished from employees by some key differences. Independent contractors operate their business entity in order to provide a good or service for an agreed price usually stipulated in a commercial contract. Other differences are that in most cases independent contractors are paid for the results they achieve; provide the materials and equipment needed to complete the work they do and are free to delegate their work to others. Also, they are free to accept or refuse work and may make a profit or a loss from the contracts they enter into with their clients. ICA is a not-for-profit association incorporated under the Associations Incorporation Act (1981) of Victoria.\n\nICA is governed by a Board under the rules established by its Articles of Association.\n\nThe articles under which ICA was established determine that the purpose of the association is:\n\nThe ICA constitution requires the election of ten Board members, with four who are independent contractors, up to at least three who are company members, and up to three who are association members. The elected Board can then appoint an additional two members.\n\n\nKen Phillips has been Executive Director of ICA since 2000.\n\nICA is funded by its membership fees and revenue raised from sponsorship, advertising and events. Membership is open to independent contractors; to companies who engage independent contractors; and to industry associations whose members engage independent contractors. Membership fees range from $50 per annum for individual affiliate members to $12,000 per annum for industry associations with more than 201 member companies.\n\nThere are 1.1 million independent contractors in the Australian workforce of 11.3 million. However, Other Business Operators (OBOs) are also self-employed and make up another 1 million workers.\n\nThe Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) separates OBOs from independent contractors on the basis that they are self-employed workers whose primary activity is managing others (i.e. they have employees) and/or selling goods and services to earn income rather than relying on the provision of their labour. Whereas independent contractors are defined as workers who provide their time and labour and who only manage themselves. Hence the self-employed total 2.1 million and make up 18.6% of the total workforce.\n\nICA is based in Melbourne, Victoria. Board meetings are held monthly at 150 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,\n\nICA's mission is to:\n\nICA's lobbying campaigns have focused on:\n\n2000-2001 the introduction of the Personal Services Income (Tax) legislation;\n\n2003–6 participation in the International Labour Organization (ILO) debates regarding the \"Scope of the Employment Relationship\" resulting in a 2006 ILO Recommendation protecting the legitimacy of independent contractors and the commercial contract.\n\n2005–6 the introduction of the Independent Contractors' Act (2006).\n\n2007-2011 the establishment of Small Business Commissioners in each state and territory and in the Commonwealth Government.\n\n2009-12 the development and promotion of \"Charter of Contractual Fairness\" to governments and corporations and to have the Trade Practices Act amended to extend the protections for contractual fairness, available to consumers, to small businesses.\n"}
{"id": "4539048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4539048", "title": "International business company", "text": "International business company\n\nAn international business company or international business corporation (IBC) is an offshore company formed under the laws of some jurisdictions as a tax neutral company which is usually limited in terms of the activities it may conduct in, but not necessarily from, the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated. While not taxable in the country of incorporation, an IBC or its owners, if resident in a country having \"controlled foreign corporation\" rules for instance can be taxable in other jurisdictions. \n\nCharacteristics of an IBC vary by jurisdiction, but will usually include:\n\n\nIt must be noted that all of the above characteristics are also attributable to many \"onshore\" countries which have either a residency or territorial based tax system where setting up a company, LLC or LLP in the jurisdiction along with the use of \"nominees\" will offer all of the above characteristics. US LLCs, UK LLPs and Hong Kong companies are all examples which are widely used in similar capacity to IBCs and which meet all of the characteristics above. \n\nHowever, under pressure from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF), most offshore jurisdictions have removed or are removing the \"ring fencing\" of IBCs from local taxation. In most of the jurisdictions, this has been accompanied by reductions of levels of corporate tax to zero to avoid damaging the offshore finance industry. \n\nIn contrast, Seychelles residents are legally able to own and operate a Seychelles IBC as long as the IBC is not conducting business within Seychelles. Seychelles also has a \"territorial\" tax system meaning that Seychelles residents are only taxed on their locally sourced income. Therefore, there is no advantage to non-residents over residents and claims of \"ring fencing\" have no merit on the Seychelles IBC. This has been, and continues to be, used successfully by Seychelles in defense of the Seychelles IBC vs. international bodies such as the OECD and FATF. Boosting the defense even more is that there are no restrictions on a Seychelles IBC owning shares of a Seychelles domestic company.\n\nFurther, most jurisdictions have either eliminated or highly restricted the issuing of bearer shares by IBCs due to international pressures.\n\nAn IBC is a legal entity incorporated under specific legislation which is free from all local taxes (except small fixed annual fees). Typically the IBC is limited in the activities it may conduct in, but not necessarily from, the country of incorporation. Anguilla, Bahamas, Belize, Dominica, Nevis, St Vincent and Seychelles have special IBC legislation in place. The British Virgin Islands and Gibraltar formerly had popular IBC regimes, but in each case the relevant legislation has been repealed.\n\nIBCs are offshore companies that are most commonly used for offshore banking to conduct international trade, investment activities, as a special purpose entity, by professionals and for asset protection. Offshore companies can be involved in buying and selling goods and services, hold bank accounts and operate businesses. IBCs are also commonly used for the ownership of real property and land; for ownership of intellectual property, licensing and franchising; personal service by individuals working overseas and offshore e-business among other things.\n\nThe term Offshore company seems more commonly used than International Business Company (IBC). Although all IBCs are necessarily offshore companies, not all offshore companies are IBCs. Both terms refer broadly to a similar type of corporate structure. The term 'offshore' is used to refer to a company, or bank account, set up outside the jurisdiction of residence or place of doing business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38597422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38597422", "title": "Jesus Vizcarra Calderón", "text": "Jesus Vizcarra Calderón\n\nJesus Vizcarra Calderon (Culiacán, Sinaloa, March 17, 1960) is a Mexican businessman and politician.\n\nVizcarra went to University in the city of Culiacan. Between 20 and 42 years old, he led various business organizations, getting to chair the National Agricultural Council and served on the Executive Committee of the Business Council for 4 years. Between 1998 and 2002 he chaired the Mexican Association of Feedlot Cattle.\nIn 1971, he began working with Sukarne, Formerly known as Viz Group, a company founded by his parents in 1969. \n\nIn 2003, his family established \"Salud Digna\", a nonprofit institution that has installed 33 centers for prevention and early diagnosis in Querétaro, Durango, Sinaloa, Nayarit, Coahuila, Jalisco, Sonora, Baja California, Guanajuato, Puebla, Aguascalientes, Mexico City and Los Angeles, California, the latter being the first Mexican clinic to provide these services to the Latino community. Today it is the most important institution of social health in Mexico, and in 2014 it will serve more than 3 million people.\n\nVery young, Jesus joined the family business, Corrales Vizcarra, as auxiliary cattle marketing and channel. In 1980 he was responsible for the general management and, from 1985 took the Chair and Department of the company, under his command that has evolved into Sukarne.\nIn October 2011, \"Latin Business Association\", featured Vizcarra as one of the most active Latino entrepreneurs in the United States, and was recognized for his career in leading SuKarne, in 2014 SuKarne was awarded the National Export Award and Agrifood National Award by the president of Mexico.\nSuKarne recibe the and its strong push to bring health services to the poor people through Salud Digna.\n\nHe ranked 67th among the 100 most important businessmen in Mexico by the business magazine Expansion in 2013, and in 2012 was recognized by the Latino community in the United States (Estados Unidos de Norteamérica) for his project, Salud Digna.\n\nSuKarne the principal company routinely exports to countries located on four continents. In 2014 started exports to Canada, Chile and China.\n\nIn 1988 Vizcarra joined the Institutional Revolutionary Party and served as a state and national political adviser in Guasave, Sinaloa. In 2003, he was sworn in as senator in the Fifth Federal District of Sinaloa; the same year he was named chairman of the Water Resources Commission and was a member of the Finance, Energy and Budget committees.\n\nVizcarra helped in the 2004 campaign to elect Jesus Aguilar Padilla governor of Sinaloa. In 2005, he served as Secretary of Economic Development of the Government of the State of Sinaloa. Subsequently, he ceded his position to campaign for mayor of Culiacán in 2007, where he earned the win. On January 1, 2008 was sworn into office.\n\nIn 2010, Vizcarra ran for governor of Sinaloa under the \"Alianza Para Ayudar a la Gente\", supported by the PRI, PVEM and PANAL. Although some polls gave him a 6-point lead over his opponent, Mario López Valdez, he lost the election, losing with 46.4 percent to López Valdez's 51.8 percent.\n\n"}
{"id": "12182570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12182570", "title": "Joaquín Ayuso", "text": "Joaquín Ayuso\n\nJoaquín Ayuso García (born 1955 in Madrid, Spain). Chief Executive Officer of Grupo Ferrovial, one of the world's leading infrastructure groups in terms of earnings and market capitalisation with more than 100,000 employees.\n\nHe joined Ferrovial in 1982, starting as site engineer; he was subsequently promoted to Project Supervisor, Group Manager, Area Manager and Regional Manager. From 1999 to 2002, he was CEO of \"Ferrovial Agromán\", the Group's construction arm.\n\nAyuso graduated in Civil Engineering from the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid.\n\n"}
{"id": "2878203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2878203", "title": "Justin Rockefeller", "text": "Justin Rockefeller\n\nJustin Aldrich Rockefeller (born July 12, 1979) is an American impact investor and financial technology professional.\n\nRockefeller was born on July 12, 1979, in West Virginia, the youngest son of former West Virginia senator, Jay Rockefeller (b. 1937), and his wife, Sharon Percy Rockefeller (b. 1944). Rockefeller's maternal grandfather was former U.S. Senator Charles H. Percy (1919–2011), and his paternal grandparents were Blanchette Ferry Hooker (1909–1992) and John D. Rockefeller III (1906–1978), the eldest son of philanthropists John D. Rockefeller Jr. and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller.\n\nRockefeller is the Global Director of Family Offices and Foundations at Addepar, a financial technology company.\n\nRockefeller cofounded and chairs the board of directors of The ImPact a membership network of family enterprises (family offices, foundations, and businesses) that are committed to making investments with measurable social impact. The ImPact provides families with the knowledge and network they need to make more impact investments more effectively, and uses sophisticated technology, Addepar, for data aggregation, analysis, and reporting to shift the narrative of impact investing from one of inputs (dollars committed) to outcomes (impact created). The purpose of The ImPact is to improve the probability and pace of solving social problems by increasing the ow of capital to investments generating measurable social impact.\n\nFrom 2009 - 2018, Rockefeller served on the board and the investment committee of Rockefeller Brothers Fund; in those capacities, he helped the private foundation align its endowment with its mission. He also serves on the board of Japan Society, and speaks occasionally about impact investing, family offices, and technology, including at the World Economic Forum at Davos, Milken Institute, Young Presidents' Organization|YPO, etc.\n\nPreviously, Justin was Venture Partner at Richmond Global, LLC, a global venture capital firm focusing on technology-enabled services and mobile technologies in the U.S. and across major emerging markets.\n\nJustin’s previous board memberships include: Voxiva, Inc.; Rockefeller Family Fund; Population Council; The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art; the Alliance for the Arts; and Generation Engage, which he cofounded in 2004. He also served on the National Leadership Council for GLSEN – the Gay, Lesbian, Straight Education Network, and on the NY State Commission on National and Community Service. \n\nIn 2006, Rockefeller, who lives in New York City, married Indré Vengris, a dancer and fashion executive.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312705", "title": "Kris Humphries", "text": "Kris Humphries\n\nKristopher Nathan Humphries (born February 6, 1985) is an American professional basketball player who last played for the Atlanta Hawks of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He has also played in the NBA for the Utah Jazz, Toronto Raptors, Dallas Mavericks, New Jersey / Brooklyn Nets, Boston Celtics, Washington Wizards, and Phoenix Suns. Humphries played college basketball for the Minnesota Golden Gophers of the University of Minnesota, and for the United States men's national basketball team.\n\nHumphries was born in Minnesota to Debra and William Humphries. His father was a football player, at the University of Minnesota. Humphries is half African-American from his father. He has two older sisters, Krystal and Kaela. His first success in sports came in competitive swimming, where he was the top 10-year-old in the nation in six events, first, beating young Michael Phelps in the remaining events. Kris Humphries held the US national record for the 50-meter freestyle for 10 and under boys for 18 years until it was recently broken. At age 12 he gave up swimming to pursue a career in basketball.\n\nHumphries attended Hopkins High School, where he led the team to a 25–2 record in 2002 and its first Minnesota state championship in 49 years. He was named a 2003 McDonald's All-American and named Second Team All-USA by USA Today. He was also named to the Super 25 Basketball Team by USA Today, named Minnesota Mr. Basketball, and state player of the year by the Minneapolis Star Tribune and College Basketball News. He was one of 10 finalists for the 2003 Naismith Prep Player of the Year Award, averaging a double double in his final three seasons, averaging 25.7 points, 11.4 rebounds and 5.0 assists a game as a senior.\n\nConsidered a five-star recruit by Rivals.com, Humphries was listed as the No. 2 power forward and the No. 15 player in the nation in 2003.\n\nHumphries accepted a scholarship offer to Duke University, but later reconsidered and chose the University of Minnesota.\n\nAt Minnesota, Humphries was named 2004 Big Ten Freshman of the Year and named to the All-Big Ten First Team by the media and coaches. He was named Honorable Mention All-America by the Associated Press and by Rivals.com. He was the first freshman to lead the Big Ten in scoring and rebounding in the same season. He scored in double figures in all 29 games, with 16 point/rebound double-doubles on the season for Minnesota. He averaged 21.7 points and 10.1 rebounds (both tops in the Big Ten), while shooting .444 percent from the field and .742 from the line. On February 18, 2004 he set a school record with 36 points in a game against Indiana. He also set a school record for most points by a freshman for a season with 629 and was the first Big Ten freshman to be named conference Player of the Week in two of the first three weeks of the season. Humphries only played one season for Minnesota before declaring for the NBA Draft.\n\nAlthough Humphries was personally successful at Minnesota, the team struggled. The Gophers finished 12–18, with a 3–13 record in the Big Ten during Humphries' lone season, tying Penn State for the worst record in the conference. Critics accused Humphries of playing selfishly, preferring to inflate his statistics and NBA draft stock rather than help the team win games. The team had a .500 record before his arrival and finished with a 10–6 conference record in the season after he left.\n\nHumphries was drafted by the Utah Jazz with the 14th overall selection in the 2004 NBA draft. He spent two seasons with the Jazz, averaging 3.6 ppg and 2.7 rpg in 11.6 minutes per game.\n\nOn June 8, 2006, Humphries was traded along with Robert Whaley to the Toronto Raptors in exchange for Rafael Araújo. In the 2006–07 season, after a slow start in which he did not receive many minutes from Raptors coach Sam Mitchell, Humphries proved to be a valuable rebounder and energy player and contributed to the Raptors capturing their first ever division title. On March 28, 2007, he grabbed seven offensive rebounds in 27 minutes against the Miami Heat, both a game-high and a career-high. He followed up this performance with nine offensive and 18 total rebounds in a win against the Detroit Pistons on April 13, 2007, again both game and career-highs. Humphries concluded his inaugural season with the Raptors with a career-high 3.1 rpg and .470 field goal percentage, as well as 3.8 ppg.\n\nOn July 9, 2009, Humphries, Shawn Marion and Nathan Jawai were traded to the Dallas Mavericks as a part of the four-team deal among Raptors, Mavericks, Orlando Magic and Memphis Grizzlies.\n\nOn January 11, 2010 the Mavericks traded Humphries along with G/F Shawne Williams to the New Jersey Nets in order to re-acquire Eduardo Nájera. On January 27, 2010, Humphries scored a career-high 25 points against the Los Angeles Clippers. He previously recorded career highs of 15 and 21 points respectively as a New Jersey Net. The 2011 season was a breakout season for Humphries as he averaged a double-double in points and rebounds. On December 21, 2011, Humphries signed a one-year, $8 million contract with the New Jersey Nets.\n\nOn July 17, 2012, Humphries signed a two-year, $24 million contract with the Nets, who by that point had moved to Brooklyn.\n\nOn June 27, 2013, ESPN.com reported that the Nets and Boston Celtics had worked out a trade that would send Humphries and four other players (Keith Bogans, MarShon Brooks, Kris Joseph and Gerald Wallace) as well as three future first-round draft picks to Boston in exchange for Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce, and Jason Terry as well as D. J. White. The deal was finally completed on July 12, 2013.\n\nOn July 19, 2014, Humphries was acquired by the Washington Wizards in a sign-and-trade deal that sent a protected 2015 second round pick and a trade exception to the Boston Celtics. On October 9, 2014, he underwent successful surgery to repair nerve damage in his right small finger, and was subsequently sidelined for three to four weeks.\n\nOn November 14, 2015, Humphries made 5-of-8 three-pointers on his way to a game-high 23 points, helping the Wizards defeat the Orlando Magic 108–99. Prior to the 2015–16 season, Humphries had gone more than a decade since making a three-pointer. He hit two in his 2004–05 rookie season, and none after that, until this game.\n\nOn February 18, 2016, Humphries was traded, along with DeJuan Blair and a 2016 protected first round draft pick, to the Phoenix Suns in exchange for Markieff Morris. He made his debut for the Suns the following day in a 116–100 loss to the Houston Rockets, recording 18 points and 12 rebounds in 27 minutes off the bench, becoming the 13th Suns player to have a double-double in his debut. On February 28, after three starts in four games, he was waived by the Suns in a buyout agreement.\n\nOn March 1, 2016, Humphries signed with the Atlanta Hawks. Three days later, he made his debut for the Hawks in a 106–77 win over the Los Angeles Lakers, recording 14 points, eight rebounds, one steal and one block in 22 minutes off the bench.\n\nOn July 15, 2016, Humphries re-signed with the Hawks.\n\nOn September 25, 2017, Humphries signed with the Philadelphia 76ers but was waived on October 14, 2017, as one of the final roster cuts.\n\nHumphries began dating reality TV personality Kim Kardashian in October 2010. They became engaged in May 2011, and married on August 20, 2011. A two-part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E! in early October 2011, amidst what \"The Washington Post\" called a \"media blitz\" related to the wedding. On October 31, 2011, it was announced that Kardashian had filed for divorce from Humphries after 72 days of marriage. On December 1, 2011, Humphries filed his response to Kardashian's petition, requesting an annulment on the grounds of fraud or a decree of legal separation rather than Kardashian requested divorce. Several news outlets have surmised that Kardashian's marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt for financial gain orchestrated by E! Entertainment, Kris and Kim Kardashian to promote the Kardashian family's brand and their subsequent television ventures. In April 2013, after a lengthy legal battle, Humphries and Kardashian reached a divorce settlement. Their divorce was finalized on June 3, 2013.\n\nHumphries was on the 2002 U.S. Junior World Championship Qualifying Tournament Team, alongside future Raptors' teammate Chris Bosh. The team finished with a 4–1 record and the bronze medal and qualified for a berth in the 2003 FIBA Junior World Championship. Humphries averaged 9.0 ppg and 5.0 rpg in five games.\n\n"}
{"id": "5726116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5726116", "title": "Libor Zábranský", "text": "Libor Zábranský\n\nLibor \"Zábrda\" Zábranský (born November 25, 1973 in Brno, Czechoslovakia) is a retired professional hockey player and current coach.\n\nZábranský was drafted 209th overall in the 9th round of the 1995 NHL Entry Draft by the St. Louis Blues. Zábranský played the majority of his career in the Czech Republic but he did play 40 games over two seasons with St. Louis in the NHL. After retiring from playing due to health problems at the age 30, he became majority owner of the Czech Extraliga team HC Kometa Brno.\n\n"}
{"id": "47072068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47072068", "title": "List of Employee of the Month (podcast) episodes", "text": "List of Employee of the Month (podcast) episodes\n\n\"Employee of the Month\" is a talk show about dreamy careers. The host, Catie Lazarus, gives each guest the Employee of the Month Award. Each installment features guests with jobs of interest, ranging from television personalities and musicians to comedians and puppeteers.\n"}
{"id": "17666858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17666858", "title": "Marion duPont Scott", "text": "Marion duPont Scott\n\nMarion duPont Scott (May 3, 1894 – September 4, 1983) was a philanthropist and a thoroughbred horsebreeder who operated a racing stable for both flat and steeplechase racing. She was the last private owner of Montpelier, the mansion and land estate of former United States President James Madison.\n\nAt the time of her death, she bequeathed Montpelier to the National Trust for Historic Preservation and established an endowment for its maintenance; it had been designated a National Historic Landmark. During the National Trust's major restoration of the mansion in 2003–2008 to its design during the time of Madison's residency, it reduced the house from the 55-room structure developed by the du Pont family back to its original 22 rooms.\n\nMarion was born in Wilmington, Delaware, the daughter of William du Pont and his second wife, Annie Rogers, the former wife of George Zinn, Sr. She had one sibling, William Jr., and a half-brother, George Zinn, Jr. She spent her childhood at Binfield, Berkshire, England. She was a great-granddaughter of Eleuthère Irénée du Pont. Of French Huguenot descent, the Du Pont family usually spell the family name as \"du Pont\" in the French style. Both Marion and her brother, William duPont, Jr., chose to spell their surname conjoined.\n\nMarion grew up riding in the hunt country of Virginia and became an accomplished horsewoman. She became interested in racing as well and developed what became known as the Montpelier Stable. She owned and bred Thoroughbreds for both flat and steeplechase racing.\n\nIn addition, she and her brother William developed a number of racing venues, including Delaware Park, which he designed in 1937 in Delaware; Fair Hill, home to the National Steeplechase Association Headquarters and its race course in Maryland, on more than 5,000 acres of land formerly owned by William duPont, Jr.; and the Springdale Race Course, Camden, South Carolina, home of the Carolina Cup and the Colonial Cup races.\n\nIn 1934, she and her brother William founded the Montpelier Steeplechase Hunt Races, held on the grounds of the estate. They are held the first Saturday in November each year at the Montpelier horse racing steeplechase course. It is a National Steeplechase Association event.\n\nMarion was married to Thomas Hugh Somerville (1895–1963), an inspector with E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. He was a son of Samuel Wilson Somerville of Culpeper, Virginia. They married on 28 December 1925 and divorced in 1935. They had no children.\n\nSecondly, she married Randolph Scott, an American movie actor, in 1936. (He had been best man at her first wedding.) They divorced in 1939; they had no children.\n\nShe also owned the 25 acre Holly Hedge estate in Camden, South Carolina from 1944 until her death in 1983. This large antebellum home was built in 1835 and included a modern ten stall horse barn. She purchased the Springdale Race Course in Camden SC as well and also owned a large equine training facility there. Her legacy lives in Camden, SC with the annual steeplechase \"Marion duPont Scott's Colonial Cup\" that she founded in 1970. Scott Park adjacent to her previous training facility is a city park on land that she donated to the city. Battleship Road in Camden, SC is named after her famous horse.\n\nIn 1976, she compiled and published her book \"Montpelier-The Recollections of Marion duPont Scott,\" with help from writer Gerald Strine. Marion Scott had additions made to Montpelier for her own use, including wings that brought the total of rooms up to 55. At her death in 1983, Marion had bequeathed the estate, designated a National Historic Landmark, to the National Trust for Historic Preservation. Her father's will had said that if she were childless, the property would be inherited by her brother and his children. Her will included a provision for his children to sell or give their interests in the property to the National Trust or forfeit their share of a separate $3.1 million trust. In addition, she provided $10 million to the National Trust to buy the property and to establish an endowment. As her brother had died in 1965, his five children inherited Montpelier. Although two nephews sued the National Trust in an effort to break the will, they finally sold their interests in 1984.\n\nAfter the National Trust for Historic Preservation took over the property, it undertook a major restoration in the 2000s to return it to its design when occupied by James and Dolley Madison in the early 1800s. It reduced the size to the original 22 rooms and is trying to locate the original furnishings or goods of the same period.\n\nMarion Scott owned Thoroughbred racehorses that competed under her \"nom de course\", Montpelier Stable, in both Flat racing and Steeplechase. The graves and tombstones of three of her racehorses lie to the left of the Montpelier mansion. Battleship and Annapolis were sons of Man o' War. Battleship is the only horse in history to win both the American Grand National and the British Grand National steeplechase races.\n\nScott's horse Mongo was voted the 1963 American Champion Male Turf Horse. Following the creation of the Eclipse Awards in 1971, her horse Soothsayer was voted the 1972 American Champion Steeplechase Horse. In 1976 Proud Delta was voted American Champion Older Female Horse.\n\nShe bequeathed funds to Virginia Tech to establish an equine medical center. It was founded in 1984 in Leesburg, Virginia, through her gift. A stipulation of the gift called for the Westmoreland Davis Memorial Foundation, which operates Morven Park, to offer 200 acres upon which the medical center was built. At the end of this 100-year agreement, the land reverts back to Morven Park. The Marion duPont Scott Equine Medical Center at Morven Park is a full-service equine hospital that offers advanced specialty care, 24-hour emergency treatment and diagnostic services for all ages and breeds of horses. The hospital sees approximately 3,000 horses annually, and employs 120 equine healthcare professionals. The Marion duPont Scott Equine Medical Center at Morven Park is affiliated with the Virginia–Maryland Regional College of Veterinary Medicine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "196086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196086", "title": "Marketing research", "text": "Marketing research\n\nMarketing research is \"the process or set of processes that links the producers, customers, and end users to the marketer through information used to identify and define marketing opportunities and problems; generate, refine, and evaluate marketing actions; monitor marketing performance; and improve understanding of marketing as a process. \nMarketing research specifies the information required to address these issues, designs the method for collecting information, manages and implements the data collection process, analyzes the results, and communicates the findings and their implications.\"\n\nIt is the systematic gathering, recording, and analysis of qualitative and quantitative data about issues relating to marketing products and services. The goal of marketing research is to identify and assess how changing elements of the marketing mix impacts customer behavior. The term is commonly interchanged with market research; however, expert practitioners may wish to draw a distinction, in that \"market\" research is concerned specifically with markets, while \"marketing\" research is concerned specifically about marketing processes.\n\nMarketing research is often partitioned into two sets of categorical pairs, either by target market:\n\n\nOr, alternatively, by methodological approach:\n\n\nConsumer marketing research is a form of applied sociology that concentrates on understanding the preferences, attitudes, and behaviors of consumers in a market-based economy, and it aims to understand the effects and comparative success of marketing campaigns. The field of consumer marketing research as a statistical science was pioneered by Arthur Nielsen with the founding of the ACNielsen Company in 1923.\n\nThus, marketing research may also be described as the systematic and objective identification, collection, analysis, and dissemination of information for the purpose of assisting management in decision making related to the identification and solution of problems and opportunities in marketing. The goal of market research is to obtain and provide management with viable information about the market (e.g. competitors), consumers, the product/service itself etc.\n\nThe purpose of marketing research (MR) is to provide management with relevant, accurate, reliable, valid, and up to date market information. Competitive marketing environment and the ever-increasing costs attributed to poor decision making require that marketing research provide sound information. Sound decisions are not based on gut feeling, intuition, or even pure judgment.\n\nManagers make numerous strategic and tactical decisions in the process of identifying and satisfying customer needs. They make decisions about potential opportunities, target market selection, market segmentation, planning and implementing marketing programs, marketing performance, and control. These decisions are complicated by interactions between the controllable marketing variables of product, pricing, promotion, and distribution. Further complications are added by uncontrollable environmental factors such as general economic conditions, technology, public policies and laws, political environment, competition, and social and cultural changes. Another factor in this mix is the complexity of consumers. Marketing research helps the marketing manager link the marketing variables with the environment and the consumers. It helps remove some of the uncertainty by providing relevant information about the marketing variables, environment, and consumers. In the absence of relevant information, consumers' response to marketing programs cannot be predicted reliably or accurately. Ongoing marketing research programs provide information on controllable and non-controllable factors and consumers; this information enhances the effectiveness of decisions made by marketing managers.\n\nTraditionally, marketing researchers were responsible for providing the relevant information and marketing decisions were made by the managers. However, the roles are changing and marketing researchers are becoming more involved in decision making, whereas marketing managers are becoming more involved with research. The role of marketing research in managerial decision making is explained further using the framework of the DECIDE model.\n\nEvidence for commercial research being gathered informally dates to the Medieval period. In 1380, the German textile manufacturer, Johann Fugger, travelled from Augsburg to Graben in order to gather information on the international textile industry. He exchanged detailed letters on trade conditions in relevant areas. Although, this type of information would have been termed \"commercial intelligence\" at the time, it created a precedent for the systemic collection of marketing information.\n\nDuring the European age of discovery, industrial houses began to import exotic, luxury goods - calico cloth from India, porcelain, silk and tea from China, spices from India and South-East Asia and tobacco, sugar, rum and coffee from the New World. International traders began to demand information that could be used for marketing decisions. During this period, Daniel Defoe, a London merchant, published information on trade and economic resources of England and Scotland. Defoe was a prolific publisher and among his many publications are titles devoted to the state of trade including; \"Trade of Britain Stated,\" (1707); \"Trade of Scotland with France,\" (1713) and \"The Trade to India Critically and Calmly Considered,\" (1720) - all of which provided merchants and traders with important information on which to base business decisions.\n\nUntil the late 18th-century, European and North-American economies were characteristed by local production and consumption. Produce, household goods and tools were produced by local artisans or farmers with exchange taking place in local markets or fairs. Under these conditions, the need for marketing information was minimail. However, the rise of mass-production following the industrial revolution, combined with improved transportation systems of the early 19th-century, led to the creation of national markets and ultimately, stimulated the need for more detailed information about customers, competitors, distribution systems and market communications.\n\nBy the 19th-century, manufacturers were exploring ways to understand the different market needs and behaviours of groups of consumers. A study of the German book trade found examples of both product differentiation and market segmentation as early as the 1820s. From the 1880s, German toy manufacturers were producing models of tin toys for specific geographic markets; London omnibuses and ambulances destined for the British market; French postal delivery vans for Continental Europe and American locomotives intended for sale in America. Such activities suggest that sufficient market information was collected to support detailed market segmentation.\n\nIn 1895, American advertising agency, N. H. Ayer & Son, used telegraph to contact publishers and state officials throughout the country about grain production, in an effort to construct an advertising schedule for client, Nichols-Shephard company, an agricultural machinery company in what many scholars believe is the first application of marketing research to solve a marketing/ advertising problem)\n\nBetween 1902 and 1910, George B Waldron, working at Mahin's Advertising Agency in the United States used tax registers, city directories and census data to show advertisers the proportion of educated vs illiterate consumers and the earning capacity of different occupations in a very early example of simple market segmentation. In 1911 Charles Coolidge Parlin was appointed as the Manager of the Commercial Research Division of the Advertising Department of the Curtis Publishing Company, thereby establishing the first in-house market research department - an event that has been described as marking the beginnings of organised marketing research. His aim was to turn market research into a science. Parlin published a number of studies of various product-markets including agriculture (1911); consumer goods (c.1911); department store lines (1912) a five-volume study of automobiles (1914).\n\nIn 1924 Paul Cherington improved on primitive forms of demographic market segmentation when he developed the 'ABCD' household typology; the first socio-demographic segmentation tool. By the 1930s, market researchers such as Ernest Dichter recognised that demographics alone were insufficient to explain different marketing behaviours and began exploring the use of lifestyles, attitudes, values, beliefs and culture to segment markets.\n\nIn the first three decades of the 20th-century, advertising agencies and marketing departments developed the basic techniques used in quantitative and qualitative research - survey methods, questionnaires, gallup polls etc. As early as 1901, Walter B Scott was undertaking experimental research for the Agate Club of Chicago. In 1910, George B Waldron was carrying out qualitative research for Mahins Advertising Agency. In 1919, the first book on commercial research was published, \"Commercial Research: An Outline of Working Principles\" by Professor C.S. Duncan of the University of Chicago.\n\nAdequate knowledge of consumer preferences was a key to survival in the face of increasingly competitive markets. By the 1920s, advertising agencies, such as J Walter Thompson (JWT), were conducting research on the \"how\" and \"why\" consumers used brands, so that they could recommend appropriate advertising copy to manufacturers.\n\nThe advent of commercial radio in the 1920s, and television in the 1940s, led a number of market research companies to develop the means to measure audience size and audience composition. In 1923, Arthur Nielsen founded market research company, A C Nielsen and over next decade pioneered the measurement of radio audiences. He subsequently applied his methods to the measurement of television audiences. Around the same time, Daniel Starch developed measures for testing advertising copy effectiveness in print media (newspapers and magazines), and these subsequently became known as Starch scores (and are still used today).\n\nDuring, the 1930s and 1940s, many of the data collection methods, probability sampling methods, survey methods, questionnaire design and key metrics were developed. By the 1930s, Ernest Dichter was pioneering the focus group method of qualitative research. For this, he is often described as the 'father of market research.' Dichter applied his methods on campaigns for major brands including Chrysler, Exxon/Esso where he used methods from psychology and cultural anthropology to gain consumer insights. These methods eventually lead to the development of \"motivational research.\" Marketing historians refer to this period as the \"Foundation Age\" of market research.\n\nBy the 1930s, the first courses on marketing research were taught in universities and colleges. The text-book, \"Market Research and Analysis\" by Lyndon O. Brown (1937) became one of the popular textbooks during this period. As the number of trained research professionals proliferated throughout the second half of the 20th-century, the techniques and methods used in marketing research became increasingly sophisticated. Marketers, such as Paul Green, were instrumental in developing techniques such as conjoint analysis and multidimensional scaling, both of which are used in positioning maps, market segmentation, choice analysis and other marketing applications.\n\nWeb analytics were born out of the need to track the behavior of site visitors and, as the popularity of e-commerce and web advertising grew, businesses demanded details on the information created by new practices in web data collection, such as click-through and exit rates. As the Internet boomed, websites became larger and more complex and the possibility of two-way communication between businesses and their consumers became a reality. Provided with the capacity to interact with online customers, Researchers were able to collect large amounts of data that were previously unavailable, further propelling the marketing research industry.\n\nIn the new millennium, as the Internet continued to develop and websites became more interactive, data collection and analysis became more commonplace for those marketing research firms whose clients had a web presence. With the explosive growth of the online marketplace came new competition for companies; no longer were businesses merely competing with the shop down the road — competition was now represented by a global force. Retail outlets were appearing online and the previous need for bricks-and-mortar stores was diminishing at a greater pace than online competition was growing.With so many online channels for consumers to make purchases, companies needed newer and more compelling methods, in combination with messages that resonated more effectively, to capture the attention of the average consumer.\n\nHaving access to web data did not automatically provide companies with the rationale behind the behavior of users visiting their sites, which provoked the marketing research industry to develop new and better ways of tracking, collecting and interpreting information. This led to the development of various tools like online focus groups and pop-up or website intercept surveys. These types of services allowed companies to dig deeper into the motivations of consumers, augmenting their insights and utilizing this data to drive market share.\n\nAs information around the world became more accessible, increased competition led companies to demand more of market researchers. It was no longer sufficient to follow trends in web behavior or track sales data; companies now needed access to consumer behavior throughout the entire purchase process.This meant the Marketing Research Industry, again, needed to adapt to the rapidly changing needs of the marketplace, and to the demands of companies looking for a competitive edge.\n\nToday, marketing research has adapted to innovations in technology and the corresponding ease with which information is available. B2B and B2C companies are working hard to stay competitive and they now demand both quantitative (“What”) and qualitative (“Why?”) marketing research in order to better understand their target audience and the motivations behind customer behaviors.\n\nThis demand is driving marketing researchers to develop new platforms for interactive, two-way communication between their firms and consumers. Mobile devices such as Smart Phones are the best example of an emerging platform that enables businesses to connect with their customers throughout the entire buying process.\n\nAs personal mobile devices become more capable and widespread, the marketing research industry will look to further capitalize on this trend. Mobile devices present the perfect channel for research firms to retrieve immediate impressions from buyers and to provide their clients with a holistic view of the consumers within their target markets, and beyond. Now, more than ever, innovation is the key to success for Marketing Researchers. Marketing Research Clients are beginning to demand highly personalized and specifically-focused products from the marketing research firms; big data is great for identifying general market segments, but is less capable of identifying key factors of niche markets, which now defines the competitive edge companies are looking for in this mobile-digital age.\n\nFirst, marketing \"research is systematic\". Thus systematic planning is required at all the stages of the marketing research process. The procedures followed at each stage are methodologically sound, well documented, and, as much as possible, planned in advance. Marketing research uses the scientific method in that data are collected and analyzed to test prior notions or hypotheses. Experts in marketing research have shown that studies featuring multiple and often competing hypotheses yield more meaningful results than those featuring only one dominant hypothesis.\n\nMarketing research is \"objective\". It attempts to provide accurate information that reflects a true state of affairs. It should be conducted impartially. While research is always influenced by the researcher's research philosophy, it should be free from the personal or political biases of the researcher or the management. Research which is motivated by personal or political gain involves a breach of professional standards. Such research is deliberately biased so as to result in predetermined findings. The objective nature of marketing research underscores the importance of ethical considerations. Also, researchers should always be objective with regard to the selection of information to be featured in reference texts because such literature should offer a comprehensive view on marketing. Research has shown, however, that many marketing textbooks do not feature important principles in marketing research.\n\nOther forms of business research include:\n\n\nOrganizations engage in marketing research for two reasons: firstly, to identify and, secondly, to solve marketing problems. This distinction serves as a basis for classifying marketing research into problem identification research and problem solving research.\n\nProblem identification research is undertaken to help identify problems which are, perhaps, not apparent on the surface and yet exist or are likely to arise in the future like company image, market characteristics, sales analysis, short-range forecasting, long range forecasting, and business trends research. Research of this type provides information about the marketing environment and helps diagnose a problem. For example, the findings of problem solving research are used in making decisions which will solve specific marketing problems.\n\nThe Stanford Research Institute, on the other hand, conducts an annual survey of consumers that is used to classify persons into homogeneous groups for segmentation purposes. The National Purchase Diary panel (NPD) maintains the largest diary panel in the United States.\n\nStandardized services are research studies conducted for different client firms but in a standard way. For example, procedures for measuring advertising effectiveness have been standardized so that the results can be compared across studies and evaluative norms can be established. The Starch Readership Survey is the most widely used service for evaluating print advertisements; another well-known service is the Gallup and Robinson Magazine Impact Studies. These services are also sold on a syndicated basis.\n\n\nMarketing research techniques come in many forms, including:\n\n\nAll of these forms of marketing research can be classified as either problem-identification research or as problem-solving research.\n\nThere are two main sources of data — primary and secondary. Primary research is conducted from scratch. It is original and collected to solve the problem in hand. Secondary research already exists since it has been collected for other purposes. It is conducted on data published previously and usually by someone else. Secondary research costs far less than primary research, but seldom comes in a form that exactly meets the needs of the researcher.\n\nA similar distinction exists between exploratory research and conclusive research. Exploratory research provides insights into and comprehension of an issue or situation. It should draw definitive conclusions only with extreme caution. Conclusive research draws conclusions: the results of the study can be generalized to the whole population.\n\nExploratory research is conducted to explore a problem to get some basic idea about the solution at the preliminary stages of research. It may serve as the input to conclusive research. Exploratory research information is collected by focus group interviews, reviewing literature or books, discussing with experts, etc. This is unstructured and qualitative in nature. If a secondary source of data is unable to serve the purpose, a convenience sample of small size can be collected. Conclusive research is conducted to draw some conclusion about the problem. It is essentially, structured and quantitative research, and the output of this research is the input to management information systems (MIS).\n\nExploratory research is also conducted to simplify the findings of the conclusive or descriptive research, if the findings are very hard to interpret for the marketing managers.\n\nMethodologically, marketing research uses the following types of research designs:\n\n\n\nResearchers often use more than one research design. They may start with secondary research to get background information, then conduct a focus group (qualitative research design) to explore the issues. Finally they might do a full nationwide survey (quantitative research design) in order to devise specific recommendations for the client.\n\nBusiness to business (B2B) research is inevitably more complicated than consumer research. The researchers need to know what type of multi-faceted approach will answer the objectives, since seldom is it possible to find the answers using just one method. Finding the right respondents is crucial in B2B research since they are often busy, and may not want to participate. Encouraging them to “open up” is yet another skill required of the B2B researcher. Last, but not least, most business research leads to strategic decisions and this means that the business researcher must have expertise in developing strategies that are strongly rooted in the research findings and acceptable to the client.\n\nThere are four key factors that make B2B market research special and different from consumer markets:\n\n\nMarketing research does not only occur in huge corporations with many employees and a large budget. Marketing information can be derived by observing the environment of their location and the competitions location. Small scale surveys and focus groups are low cost ways to gather information from potential and existing customers. Most secondary data (statistics, demographics, etc.) is available to the public in libraries or on the internet and can be easily accessed by a small business owner.\n\nBelow are some steps that could be done by SME (Small Medium Enterprise) to analyze the market:\n\n\nInternational Marketing Research follows the same path as domestic research, but there are a few more problems that may arise. Customers in international markets may have very different customs, cultures, and expectations from the same company. In this case, Marketing Research relies more on primary data rather than secondary information. Gathering the primary data can be hindered by language, literacy and access to technology.\nBasic Cultural and Market intelligence information will be needed to maximize the research effectiveness. Some of the steps that would help overcoming barriers include:\n\nMarket research techniques resemble those used in political polling and social science research. Meta-analysis (also called the Schmidt-Hunter technique) refers to a statistical method of combining data from multiple studies or from several types of studies. Conceptualization means the process of converting vague mental images into definable concepts. Operationalization is the process of converting concepts into specific observable behaviors that a researcher can measure. Precision refers to the exactness of any given measure. Reliability refers to the likelihood that a given operationalized construct will yield the same results if re-measured. Validity refers to the extent to which a measure provides data that captures the meaning of the operationalized construct as defined in the study. It asks, “Are we measuring what we intended to measure?”\n\n\nSome of the positions available in marketing research include vice president of marketing research, research director, assistant director of research, project manager, field work director, statistician/data processing specialist, senior analyst, analyst, junior analyst and operational supervisor.\n\nThe most common entry-level position in marketing research for people with bachelor's degrees (e.g., BBA) is as operational supervisor. These people are responsible for supervising a well-defined set of operations, including field work, data editing, and coding, and may be involved in programming and data analysis. Another entry-level position for BBAs is assistant project manager. An assistant project manager will learn and assist in questionnaire design, review field instructions, and monitor timing and costs of studies. In the marketing research industry, however, there is a growing preference for people with master's degrees. Those with MBA or equivalent degrees are likely to be employed as project managers.\n\nA small number of business schools also offer a more specialized Master of Marketing Research (MMR) degree. An MMR typically prepares students for a wide range of research methodologies and focuses on learning both in the classroom and the field.\n\nThe typical entry-level position in a business firm would be junior research analyst (for BBAs) or research analyst (for MBAs or MMRs). The junior analyst and the research analyst learn about the particular industry and receive training from a senior staff member, usually the marketing research manager. The junior analyst position includes a training program to prepare individuals for the responsibilities of a research analyst, including coordinating with the marketing department and sales force to develop goals for product exposure. The research analyst responsibilities include checking all data for accuracy, comparing and contrasting new research with established norms, and analyzing primary and secondary data for the purpose of market forecasting.\n\nAs these job titles indicate, people with a variety of backgrounds and skills are needed in marketing research. Technical specialists such as statisticians obviously need strong backgrounds in statistics and data analysis. Other positions, such as research director, call for managing the work of others and require more general skills. To prepare for a career in marketing research, students usually:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30054623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30054623", "title": "Outdoor USA Magazine", "text": "Outdoor USA Magazine\n\nOutdoor USA Magazine is a paper and online trade publication for the North American outdoor industry. The magazine is distributed to outdoor retailers, manufacturers, sales representatives and other industry stakeholders. As a trade publication it reports on news relevant to its industry. It is published on a monthly basis.\n"}
{"id": "1326874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1326874", "title": "Penalty Recordings", "text": "Penalty Recordings\n\nPenalty is an American record label and entertainment company, founded and run by CEO Neil Levine. The company was founded in 1995 as a record label specializing in hip-hop music.\n\nThe original Penalty label was acquired by its distributor, Tommy Boy, in 1999. A second version, Penalty Associated Labels, was operated by Levine in association with Rykodisc from 2002 to 2006. The third and current incarnation was established in 2014.\n\nArtists on Penalty have included Capone-N-Noreaga (as well as both Capone and Noreaga/N.O.R.E. as solo artists), Lord Finesse, Ali Shaheed Muhammed of A Tribe Called Quest, and The Beatnuts, among others.\n\nAfter a career as an independent marketing professional, Neil Levine founded Penalty Recordings, launching it in 1995 as a joint venture between himself and Tom Silverman. Silverman was the founder and original owner of Tommy Boy, a division of Warner Bros. Records which served as Penalty's distributor. In 1996, Silverman re-purchased half of the interest in Tommy Boy, which continued as Penalty's distributor.\n\nSpecializing in Hip-Hop music, The initial releases on Penalty included the single \"Crime Saga\" by Shabazz the Disciple and both the single \"Hip 2 Da Game\" and the album \"The Awakening\" by Lord Finesse. Other early Penalty artists included Crooked Lettaz, Blackjack, Foesum, and the group Capone-N-Noreaga, whose first release on the label was the single \"Stick You\" in 1996. The Capone-N-Noreaga album \"The War Report\" followed in 1997, which reached a peak of #21 on The \"Billboard\" 200 album sales chart.\n\nBetween 1997 and 1999, Penalty released albums by artists such as Skull Duggery, Crooked Lettaz (David Banner and Kamikaze), Half a Mill, and 187 Fac. It also released the first two solo albums by Noreaga. The first, N.O.R.E., reached a peak of #3 on The Billboard 200 and featured the Top 40 hit \"Superthug\", one of the earliest hits produced by The Neptunes (Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo).\n\nLevine sold the remaining 50% of Penalty to Tommy Boy in 1999, staying on long enough to complete the transition before moving on to eventually become Vice-President of Urban Marketing and Artist Development at TVT Records. The artists on Penalty became Tommy Boy artists following the close of the acquisition.\n\nIn 2002, Levine reestablished Penalty in partnership with Rykostar. a company for which Levine would also serve as the general manager of. The re-established label featured J-Live, The Beatnuts, Ali Shaheed Muhammad, MC Eiht, and Zion I among its roster, many of them with their own imprints on Penalty. Three of its key releases during this period between 2002 and 2006 were \"Milk Me\" by the Beanuts, \"Shaheedullah And Stereotypes\" by Ali Shaheed Muhammad, and \"The Hear After\" by J-Live.\n\nPenalty was also one of the partners involved in producing and marketing the AND1 Mixtape Tour series of DVDs, featuring gameplay and interviews of streetball players. The label closed in 2006, when Levine became the head of Imperial Records for EMI Music.\n\nOn January 21, 2014, Penalty was reactivated as an independent label distributed by RED, in 2014. Among its 1st signings were Penalty alumni Capone-N-Noreaga, who released a new album \"Lessons\", in 2014. The label has also put out releases by Lil' Mo, Joell Ortiz, BeatKing, Hi-Rez and EMC, which includes Masta Ace, Wordsworth and Strick. Penalty released BeatKing's album \"3 Weeks\" on October 30, 2015, with upcoming releases by Statik KXNG (Statik Selektah & KXNG Crooked) and Trina set for release before the end of the year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4246042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4246042", "title": "Process agent", "text": "Process agent\n\nA process agent is a representative upon whom court papers may be served. In the US, the role is generally a requirement of US State law and is known as a registered agent, a resident agent or statutory agent. However, process agents are utilized in the US by truck drivers, brokers or freight forwarders for similar purposes. Process agents that provide nationwide coverage for motor carriers are commonly referred to as blanket companies. \n\nIn the UK, a process agent is a contractual relationship, permitted by the Civil Procedure Rules.\n\nUnder English Civil Procedure Rules, it is necessary to serve papers to start proceedings correctly. If a party does not have an address within the United Kingdom, the procedure for serving these papers can be lengthy and complicated, with proof of service particularly difficult in some circumstances. \n\nIt is therefore customary to appoint a process agent and contractually agree that service at the address of the agent will constitute proper service for the purposes of Rule 6.1.1 of the Civil Procedure Rules. In order to meet the requirements of Rule 6.1.1 an appropriate contractual clause needs to be inserted into the agreement specifying the details of the appointment.\n\nIt is also possible to appoint a Process Agent for the purposes of arbitration proceedings in a similar manner.\n\nThe role of a process agent is a vitally important service for many businesses dealing with suppliers, banks or tenders in the UK. Process agents accept service of notices, proceedings or documents on behalf of their overseas clients in situations where it is not possible for them to be served abroad. A process agent can act in a broad capacity for a company including but not limited to; acting as a process agent for court actions, receiving documents in connection with arbitration proceedings and receiving notices under contracts where an independent party is needed. \n\nA typical example of a process agency arrangement is where an overseas entity raises a loan from a city institution. Often the lending bank will require the appointment of a UK-based process agent to receive formal notices should the borrower default on the loan.\n"}
{"id": "33242335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33242335", "title": "Projector PSA", "text": "Projector PSA\n\nProjector PSA, Inc. is a developer of cloud-based professional services automation (PSA) software.\n\nProjector PSA was started in 2002 by a group of employees at Agency.com. Their self-developed application used to manage Agency.com became the prototype for Projector PSA's main software offering, Projector. In 2003 Projector PSA, Inc. was formed and in mid-2004 they released the first version of Projector.\n\nProjector is a business application that is intended to be used by project-based organizations. Projector is considered Professional Services Automation, or PSA software. Projector is designed to help companies with project management, resource scheduling, and project accounting.\n\nProjector is a cloud-based application that allows users to access the application anywhere they have an internet connection. Projector has two main interfaces, one called the Employee Portal and a second called the Management Portal. The Employee Portal is a browser-based application that has functionality for time entry, expense entry, document management, issue tracking, and viewing schedules. The Management Portal uses Window's Smart-Client technology and is where users go to manage projects, schedule resources, run reports, create invoices, and administer the application.\n\nProjector has a mobile web application for time and expense entry that can be accessed on most smartphones.\n\nProjector's software is sold using the Software-as-a-Service or SaaS licensing model, and is being used by more than 19,000 users across 180 companies worldwide.\n\nProjector PSA runs a user group called the Projector e Community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39226478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39226478", "title": "Ram Soraya", "text": "Ram Soraya\n\nRaam Lalchand Pridhani ( aka Raam Soraya and Ram Soraya) is an entrepreneur and film producer from Indonesia. He was born in Surabaya, Indonesia, 4 November 1949. He is the owner of production house Soraya Intercine Films.\n\nBefore the film industry, he was a textile importer. His career in film began as a distributor for East Java (1972 to 1982). He became a producer in the \"Budak Nafsu\" (1983) which won Best Film at the Indonesian Film Festival (FFI) 1984. The movie is the result of his own company, PT. Soraya Intercine Films. After that he made films including \"Sembilan Wali\" (1985), \"Permainan Yang Nakal\" (1986), \"Saya Suka Kamu Punya\" (1987) and others.\n\nSoraya's career peak came after taking over production of the Warkop DKI series from Raam Punjabi's Parkit Film. Soraya made Warkop TV series in 1995 until 2007.\n"}
{"id": "20764919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20764919", "title": "Richard Clarke Cabot", "text": "Richard Clarke Cabot\n\nRichard Clarke Cabot (May 21, 1868 – May 7, 1939) was an American physician who advanced clinical hematology, was an innovator in teaching methods, and was a pioneer in social work.\n\nRichard Clarke Cabot was born May 21, 1868, in Brookline, Massachusetts, one of five sons of James Elliot Cabot and Elizabeth (Dwight) Cabot. James Cabot was a philosopher and Harvard University professor who also trained as a lawyer and biographer, and was a friend of Ralph Waldo Emerson.\n\nCabot studied philosophy at Harvard University before switching to medicine. Inspired by the beliefs of John Dewey, Cabot felt more drawn to action than contemplation, and he admired the work of Teddy Roosevelt and Jane Addams. After completing his studies in 1892, he turned down the role of the first bacteriologist at Massachusetts General Hospital to work in the hospital's much less prestigious outpatient department. At this time, outpatient wards dealt mostly with people who couldn't afford inpatient treatment, or for the treatment of incurable chronic conditions such tuberculosis or diabetes. This involved working populations who lived in unhealthy, overcrowded accommodation, often recent migrants.\n\nHe changed the way that the outpatient department was run, believing that economic, social, family and psychological conditions underpinned many of the conditions that patients presented with. He envisaged that social workers would work in a complementary relationship with doctors, the former concentrating on physiological health, and the latter on social health. In addition to this, he saw that social work could improve medicine by providing a critical perspective on it while working alongside it in an organisational setting. In 1905 Cabot created one of the first positions of professional social worker in the world, given to Garnet Pelton, and then to Ida Cannon. Although Clarke credited his approach as similar to that of Anne Cummins in London. The hospital refused to support the hiring of social workers, and Cabot had to pay their wages himself. Pelten developed tuberculosis herself soon after taking up the position and was forced to retire. Cannon stayed in the position for forty years and became Head of Social Work at the hospital. Cabot and Cannon pioneered many programs to improve the health of patients, including art classes for psychiatric patients, low-cost meals for patients and research on the social factors that increased a person's likelihood of developing tuberculosis.\n\nIn 1917 Cabot took up a position in the Medical Reserve Corps for a year. He returned briefly to Massachusetts General Hospital in 1918 and then left to take up the position of chair at Harvard's Department of Social Ethics in 1919. At this time, the hospital agreed to pay the wages of social workers, as up to this point, Cabot had paid the wages of thirteen social workers over the last 12 years. He went on to write about his experiences in his book \"Social Work\"\n\nHe is also credited with discovering Cabot rings, and for describing, along with his colleague, Locke, the eponymous Cabot-Locke murmur, a diastolic murmur occasionally heard in severe anemia, unrelated to heart valve abnormalities.\n\nCabot established a tradition of teaching conferences at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) that featured generating differential diagnoses, and founded the long-standing feature of Case Record of MGH in \"New England Journal of Medicine\".\n\nCabot's paternal grandfather, Samuel Cabot, Jr., became a sailor at age 19 and married Elizabeth Perkins, daughter of a successful Boston trader. Samuel Cabot III later took over the running of the firm.\n\nRichard married Ella Lyman, and both held Transcendentalist views. This philosophy, as well as his parents' commitment to philanthropy, had a strong influence of Richard. Around the end of the 19th Century, such ideals were out of favor, with the dominant beliefs at the time being social Darwinism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17347911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17347911", "title": "Senior Community Service Employment Program", "text": "Senior Community Service Employment Program\n\nThe Senior Community Service Employment Program (SCSEP) is a program of the United States Department of Labor, its Employment and Training Administration, to help more senior citizens get back into or remain active in the labor workforce. It is a community service and work-based training program. It does this through job skill training and employment assistance with an emphasis on getting a ready job with a suitable and cooperating company or organisation. In such a setting, the worker is paid the United States minimum wage, or the highest of Federal, State or local minimum wage, or the prevailing wage, for an average of 20 hours per week, and experiences on-the-job learning and newly acquired skills use. The intention is that through these community jobs, the older worker will gain a permanent job, not subsidized by federal government funds.\n\nPeople who are 55 or older can obtain job training and job search services from SCSEP. In each area of the country, SCSEP services are accessed through local organizations. These are usually nonprofits, but sometimes a state agency will administer the program.\n\nThe participant must be at least 55 years of age and from a family receiving regular cash welfare payments or with an annual family income of no more than 25% over the Federal poverty level as defined by the United States Census Bureau. There are certain exclusions in the income calculation, such as Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI).\n\nEnrollment priority is given to persons over age 60, veterans, and qualified spouses of veterans. Preference is given to minority, limited English-speaking, and Indian eligible individuals. Preference is also given to eligible individuals who have the greatest economic need.\n\nSCSEP was authorised by the United States Congress in Title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 and its later amendments to provide subsidized, part-time, community service work based training for low-income persons age 55 or older who have poor employment prospects. The program has evolved significantly in the last 50 years. The program is administered by nonprofit organizations and local government agencies.\n\nExperience Works, Inc., was historically the largest provider of SCSEP services. In 2015, the grantee was cited for $1.6 million dollars in questioned costs by the Department of Labor. The report details the use of unrestricted and accrued annual leave to cover a $1.6 million grant overspend, which $1.4 million was used to pay participant wages and fringe benefits, the misuse of federal funds to cover activities including first-class travel, pet hotels, fruit bouquets, personal loans to the CEO, and frequent credit card use on entertainment and prohibited lobbying. The number now totals approximately $2 million in questioned expenses. In 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor issued a follow up report critical of current management for not taking any corrective actions to restore funds. As a result of the prior management's actions, the U.S. Department of Labor has revamped the funding for SCSEP and the Inspector General has expanded the investigation into the activities of the previous management. The federal investigation is aided by a whistleblower and other former employees. In September, 2016 the Inspector General issued a preliminary report describing the organization as financial insolvent and took steps to curtail and eliminate federal funding. Subsequently, more than 100 employees were terminated as a result of the funding reduction and were paid only part of their accrued leave.\n\nSCSEP has received stable funding of $434,371,000 during the last several years. The Trump administration has called for the elimination of the program, which is meeting some resistance in Congress.\n\nThe most recent budget proposal from the White House would eliminate the program entirely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46861966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46861966", "title": "Simon Gicharu", "text": "Simon Gicharu\n\nDr. Simon Gicharu is an educationalist and founder of Mount Kenya University, which is East and Central Africa’s largest private university. He was born in 1964 in Gathiruini village, in Kiambu County, Kenya. He is the first in a family of seven. Dr. Gicharu is also the Chairman of the Rural Electrification Authority and National Private Universities Owners Association of Kenya. He is the founder of Equip Africa Institute and patron of the Graduate Enterprise Academy. He is also a board member at Thika Water and Sewerage Company, and the patron of Inter Universities Rover Moot under the Kenya Scouts Association. In 2015, Dr. Gicharu was named the Eastern African Ernst and Young Entrepreneur of the Year. He is married with three children.\n\nHis early life experiences were the cauldron in which his successful characteristic traits were shaped. As a pupil at Kiawairia Primary School and later Gathiruini Secondary School, Gicharu had to walk many kilometres to and from school. His parents were peasant farmers and their small piece of land, which they tilled for subsistence, provided barely enough for their upkeep. To supplement the domestic income, Dr. Gicharu, alongside his siblings, picked coffee at large commercials farms where he was paid by the kilo.\n\nAt Murang’a High School where he undertook his O-Levels, he was the captain in his final year. While in school, he etched a reputation for entrepreneurial acumen, and for assisting fellow students in Mathematics, a subject he excelled in.\n\nMr Gicharu obtained a Bachelor of Education Science (Honours) degree from Kenyatta University in 1990. His majors were Mathematics and Chemistry. Soon after graduation, he continued to exercise his passion for education, teaching his favourite Maths subject at various secondary schools in Kenya, and later at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, and at the Thika Technical Training Institute. He would also author Kenya’s first post-secondary school book on Mathematics, Applied Mathematics for Craft Engineering.\n\nDr. Gicharu has also previously worked as a lecturer at Thika Technical Training Institute. In 1995, he earned a British Council scholarship to study Managing Enterprise Development at Cranfield University, Britain. When he came back he established Kenya Entrepreneurship Promotion Programme (KEPP), which provided micro-loans and training to young entrepreneurs. His seed capital was only Ksh20,000 (US$220). KEPP later started offering training in computers and changed its name to Thika School of Management Studies (TSMS), with introduction of Management courses. \nGradually, TSMS increased its student enrolment and the number of courses. The type of courses it offered was determined by the job demands of the day and with the explosion in use of information science and technology, TSMS changed its name to Thika Institute of Technology (TIT) in 2003.\n\nThat same year, Dr. Gicharu, resolved that Science training would be the backbone of TIT. He made a blind trip to India, on scanty information that at the Punjab State, they were assembling Science equipment in cottage industries that was relatively affordable. Dr. Gicharu immediately purchased the equipment. TIT was the first private college in Kenya to be accredited to offer the Diploma programme in Pharmacy.\n\nIn 2017, Gicharu was noted to have a keen interest in venturing into the media within Kenya, having already started a television and radio station in Rwanda.\nGicharu and Tom Mshindi (Editor in Chief of Nation Media Group) hold controlling shares in 360 media headed by former Nation Media Group reporter Samwel Born Maina. The firm was set up by Gicharu and team to “disrupt the media relations sector in Kenya, especially in an election year.” \nGicharu’s 360 Media has become linked to the scandal involving Cambridge Analytica developing online campaigns in the 2017 Kenyan elections portraying “Raila Odinga as a blood-thirsty individual who is also sympathetic to Al-Shabaab and having no development agenda,” whilst portraying the incumbent President Kenyatta as “tough on terrorism, and being good for the economy.”\nGicharu has recently gone on to self-fund TV47 and Beats 47 in Kenya, new television and radio stations, via his company Cape Media, headed by his son Kevin Gicharu.\n\nIn 2008, the Institute was awarded a Letter of Interim Authority by the Commission for University Education in Kenya, to operate as an independent university under the name Mount Kenya University. The university was granted a full Charter status in 2011. At the age of 46 years, Dr. Gicharu became the youngest Kenyan to have established a chartered university. The only other indigenous Chartered university was started by the former President H.E Daniel Arap Moi. Mount Kenya University, with 16 Campuses and Centres in Kenya, Rwanda, Somaliland, Tanzania, Burundi and Uganda employs over 3,000 people and has a student population of about 50,000. The University is a member of Inter-university Council of East Africa and the Association of Commonwealth Universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "8633562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8633562", "title": "Syed Manzur Elahi", "text": "Syed Manzur Elahi\n\nSyed Manzur Elahi is a prominent businessperson in Bangladesh. He is the chairman of Apex group, a leading business organisation in Bangladesh. He is also the founding chairman of Mutual Trust Bank and Grey Advertising Bangladesh.\n\nManzur joined the erstwhile Pakistan Tobacco after completing M.A. in Economics from the University of Dhaka. Prior to that, he received his B.A from St. Xavier's College, Calcutta. He left the lucrative job to start his own tannery business. In 1996, he was appointed as an advisor to the non-partisan Caretaker Government of Bangladesh.\n"}
{"id": "54335025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54335025", "title": "The Ottobar", "text": "The Ottobar\n\nThe Ottobar is a well known music venue located in the Charles Village neighborhood of Baltimore, Maryland, in the United States. The club was named one of the top music venues and one of the top indie and alternative music venues in Baltimore, Maryland. The Washington Post describes it as a \"bastion of sub-mainstream music...where the insular community of artists and scenesters flock to hear the best touring bands.\" It also hosts theme events, dance parties, and an occasional burlesque show.\n\nThe Ottobar originally opened in Downtown Baltimore in September 1997 at 203 East Davis Street in the former Chambers Nightclub. It was a very small venue which provided an intimate setting for live music and performance art. Despite its size, it attracted national acts such as Blonde Redhead, Bright Eyes, Death Cab for Cutie, Fear, Jimmy Eat World, Lamb of God, Le Tigre, of Montreal, Queens of the Stone Age, Spoon, The Rapture, and The White Stripes. It also supported local artists of the time, such as Daybreak, Goliath, Lungfish, Oxes, The Goons, and The Oranges Band. The Ottobar has booked more than 12,000 acts since it opened in 1997. Performance art showcased included The 80's Prom, Salute To Satan, Tiny Couch Night, and The Death of Vaudeville Night. The Davis Street location closed on November 17, 2001.\n\nThe Ottobar reopened the same month at its current 2549 North Howard Street location in lower Charles Village, south of the Johns Hopkins University campus and the Baltimore Museum of Art. The Charles Village location is considerably larger, but still provides an intimate listening experience by permitting fans to be close to the bands. The venue is valued by artists for its clientele and sound system. Food is not served at the Ottobar. There is a bar and concert area on the main floor, a balcony with seating and a good view of the first floor, and an area for dance parties on the second floor. The second floor also has pool tables, a sofa, a small performance space, and a bar. It has been reported that there is a secret passage to the apartment next door which functions as the dressing room.\n\nThe new Ottobar also showcases emerging musical artists as well as national acts. Some of the artists who have performed at the Ottobar include national artists Animal Collective, At the Drive In, Atmosphere, The Black Keys, Bouncing Souls, Coheed and Cambria, Damnwells, David Cross, Death Cab for Cutie, Dinosaur Jr, Drive-By Truckers, Father John Misty, Jimmy Eat World, Jonathan Richman, KRS-ONE, Maroon 5, The Melvins, Michael Ian Black, Queens of the Stone Age, Quiet Riot, Sharon Van Etten, Supersuckers, TV on the Radio, The Breeders, Brand New, Movielife, Saves the Day, Frank Turner, Samiam, and the Yeah Yeah Yeahs. The venue also supports and showcases local artists such as Celebration, Lake Trout, Misery Index, Ponytail, and Thrushes. There are theme nights such as Underground Dance Party, Pet Wedding, Butcher Knife Throwing Contest, Spelling Bee, Ottobar Boys and Girls Choir, and Book Burning For Peace.\n\nIn 2014, tragedy struck when Thomas Malenski and another employee were stabbed by Nicholas Heath after they escorted a friend of Heath's outside. Malenski later died of his wounds. Musicians, patrons and employees were surprised and said they had never felt unsafe coming to or being inside the Ottobar. The only other reported issues had been neighbors occasionally complaining that patrons were noisy as they left the bar.\n\nThe Ottobar also hosts fundraisers and other events for various causes. In 2017, supporters of Planned Parenthood of Maryland met at Ottobar in Baltimore the day before the Women's March on Washington.\n\nManagement announced in November 2018 that the venue would change ownership in 2019. Details of that transition were immediately unclear.\n\nOn November 02, 2018 It was announced on the Facebook that the owners of Ottobar sold the business, to a new unidentified group:\nHey Ottobar friends & family, we have a big announcement:\nIt's the end of an era...the current owners of Ottobar will be handing the reigns over to a new group in 2019. \nWe would like to thank the talented musicians & artists who have graced the Ottobar's stage over the past 21 years. Thank you to our neighbors in Remington, Old Goucher, & Charles Village for welcoming us to the neighborhood and supporting us all of these years. To all past & present staff...the deepest appreciation for your tireless efforts. We couldn't have made it 21 years without you! Finally, thank you Baltimore & all of our customers & music fans from far & wide for showing us so much love. It's been a great 20+ year ride! Thanks again for all of your support! So many great memories! Also, make sure to vote on Tuesday!\"\n"}
{"id": "19851532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19851532", "title": "Thomas Grainger", "text": "Thomas Grainger\n\nThomas Grainger FRSE (12 November 1794 – 25 July 1852) was a Scottish civil engineer and surveyor. He was joint partner with John Miller in the prominent engineering firm of Grainger & Miller.\n\nGrainger was born at Gogar Green near Ratho, outside Edinburgh to Helen Marshall and Hugh Grainger. Educated at the University of Edinburgh, at 16 he got a job with John Leslie, a land surveyor.\n\nHe started his own practice in 1816, and in 1825 he formed a partnership with John Miller which lasted until 1847. Their firm operated from the ground floor of Grainger's house at 56 George Street, in the centre of Edinburgh's New Town.\n\nBetween 1845 and 1849 his company worked on the digging of the Bramhope Tunnel and building the Arthington Viaduct as part of laying the Leeds to Stockton-on-Tees line. The first modern rail ferry, the \"Leviathan\", was designed in 1849 by Grainger for the Edinburgh, Perth and Dundee Railway to cross the Firth of Forth between Granton and Burntisland. The service commenced on 3 February 1850.\n\nProjects he was involved in included many railway bridges, viaducts and tunnels, including work on the Monkland and Kirkintilloch Railway, Ballochney Railway, Garnkirk and Glasgow Railway, Wishaw and Coltness Railway, Paisley and Renfrew Railway, Dundee and Arbroath Railway, Arbroath and Forfar Railway, and the Leeds Northern Railway, where he was chief engineer at the time of his death.\n\nHe was president of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts 1849-51, and a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\nBenjamin Hall Blyth served as an apprentice under him.\n\nHe died in Stockton-on-Tees on 25 July 1852 as a result of injuries sustained in a train collision two days earlier. One of two fatal casualties, Grainger had sustained a compound fracture to his right leg, which quickly turned gangrenous. Following his death his body was returned home for burial in the family plot in the kirkyard at Gogar.\n\nOn 24 January 1843 he married Jessie Fraser (1809-1880). They had three daughters: Isabella Helen, Jessie Frances and Agnes Catherine. While Isabella is thought to have died young, Jessie and Agnes died in London in 1921 and 1934 respectively, both having been resident there since at least 1871. They are buried in the family plot at Gogar. \n\n"}
