{"id": "13632007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13632007", "title": "African Affairs", "text": "African Affairs\n\nAfrican Affairs is a peer-reviewed academic journal published quarterly by Oxford University Press on behalf of the London-based Royal African Society. The journal covers any Africa-related topic: political, social, economic, environmental and historical. Each issue also includes a section of book reviews.\n\nIt is the No 1. ranked journal in African Studies and the No 1. ranked journal in Area Studies. The journal is also ranked within political science.\n\nIt was established as the Journal of the African Society in 1901, and was published as the Journal of the Royal African Society from 1936 until it obtained its current name in 1944.\n\nThe journal was established in 1901 as the \"Journal of the African Society\" and was published as the \"Journal of the Royal African Society\" () from 1936 to 1944. In 1944, the journal obtained its current name.\n\nThe journal offers an African Author prize, which is awarded for the best article published in the journal by an author based in an African institution, or an African Ph.D student based in an overseas university.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.904, ranking it 23rd out of 163 journals in the category \"Political Science\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23759424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23759424", "title": "African Journal of Legal Studies", "text": "African Journal of Legal Studies\n\nThe African Journal of Legal Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering human rights and law issues in Africa. The founding editor-in-chief is Professor Charles Chernor Jalloh (Florida International University College of Law). The journal is abstracted and indexed in ProQuest databases. The journal was established in 2005 under the auspices of the Africa Law Institut. Since 2011 (volume 4), it is published by Martinus Nijhoff Publishers.\n"}
{"id": "32021760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32021760", "title": "American Studies (journal)", "text": "American Studies (journal)\n\nAmerican Studies is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering issues broadly concerning American culture and international perspectives. The journal is sponsored by the Mid-America American Studies Association and the University of Kansas. In 2005 the journal merged with \"American Studies International\". The editors-in-chief are Sherrie Tucker and Randal Maurice Jelks (University of Kansas). The journal is partially abstracted and indexed in Scopus.\n\n"}
{"id": "33506202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33506202", "title": "Ba'ath Party (Syrian-dominated faction)", "text": "Ba'ath Party (Syrian-dominated faction)\n\nThe Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party (meaning \"resurrection\"; \"Hizb al-Baʿath al-ʿArabī al-Ishtirākī\"), also referred to as the pro-Syrian Ba'ath movement, is a neo-Ba'athist political party with branches across the Arab world. The party emerged from a split in the Ba'ath Party in February 1966 and leads the government in Syria. From 1970 until 2000, the party was led by the Syrian president Hafez al-Assad. , leadership has been shared between his son Bashar al-Assad (head of the Syrian regional organization) and Abdullah al-Ahmar (head of the pan-Arab national organization). The Syrian branch of the party is the largest organisation within the Syrian-led Ba'ath Party.\n\nHafez al-Assad became the secretary of the Syrian Regional Command of the party in 1970 and Secretary General of the National Command in late 1970. Despite being deceased, Hafez al-Assad is still the official Secretary General of the National Command. Bashar al-Assad became the Regional Secretary of the party in Syria after his father's death in 2000. Abdullah al-Ahmar serves as the Assistant Secretary General of the National Command, a post he has held since the 1970s.\n\n\n\n\nNote: for the 1st–8th National Congresses, see the national congresses held by the unified, pre-1966 Ba'ath Party.\n\nThe party is organized along Leninist lines, a policy stemming back to Aflaq and Bitar's leadership before the split. The highest organ of the party is the Party Congress. The Congress elects a General Secretary and a National Command. Under the National Command there is a Regional Command for each state in which the party operates. The regions are divided into branches, which are divided into companies. A branch consists of two or more companies. A company comprises three to seven cells. Each cell has between three and seven members.\n\nIn theory, the National Command of the party is the embryonic government for the entire Arab nation. The body comprises 21 members, half of whom are Syrian. In practice, the Syrian Regional Command is the more powerful institution inside the party. The Syrian Regional Command is the real political leadership in Syria; the power of the National Command has become more symbolic than real. A seat in National Command has become a sinecure, an honorary post given to Syrian politicians as they retire from active political life. Hafez al-Assad rarely had time to attend National Command meetings. Instead, he appointed Vice President for Party Affairs Zuhayr Mashariqa or Abd al-Halim Khaddam to represent him at National Command meetings. In theory, the National Command could conduct proselytism and form new Regional Commands across the Arab world and support weaker Regional Commands, but Syrian policymakers have curtailed that capacity.\n\nThe party was sometimes known in Iraq as left-wing Ba'ath or Qutr Al-Iraq. Prominent members of the party in Iraq include Mahmud al-Shaykh Radhi, Fawzi Mutlaq al-Rawi and Dr. Mahmud Shamsa. The party opposed the rule of Saddam Hussein and was one of the first groups to be targeted by him. The party lost hundreds of its cadres amid repression by his government. Radhi was based in Syria during the 1970s.\n\nThe party labelled the Saddam government as \"fascist\". When the Iran–Iraq War broke out in 1980, the party took part in the formation of the Iraqi Patriotic and Democratic Front, together with the Iraqi Communist Party, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and the Kurdish Socialist Party. The front vowed to overthrow Saddam. (Syria supported Iran in the Iraq-Iran War.)\n\nIn the 1980s, the party began cooperating with the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq. The party organized the first general conference of Iraqi opposition groups in Damascus in 1989. It also participated in a conference of Iraqi opposition groups in Beirut in 1991. In 1999, Radhi was staying in the United Kingdom. The party was one of three main groups (along with the Iraqi Communist Party and the Islamic Dawa Party) which formed the Coalition of Iraqi National Forces. The Coalition was opposed to Saddam Hussein as well as United States military intervention. During the run-up to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, the party publicly denounced U.S. involvement in the organization of Iraqi dissidents in exile.\n\nAfter the fall of Saddam's administration, confusion arose as to whether the de-Ba'athification law also applied to the party. In 2008, Radhi requested that the party be allowed to function inside Iraq and join the process of reconciliation. In response, the Iraqi government declared that they viewed Qotr al-Iraq as distinct from Saddam's Ba'ath because Qotr al-Iraq had participated in the opposition conferences during the Saddam years. , the Iraqi regional organization is still based in Syria.\n\nIn 2018 Radhi, based in London, visited Baghdad and met President Fuad Masum during reconciliation talks.\n\nThe Arab Ba'ath Progressive Party was legally registered for the first time in 1993. The branch is small, and has, according to a WikiLeaks document, a \"minuscule number of adherents\". Despite its small size, the branch is able through its leader, Fuad Dabbour, to get a decent footprint in Jordanian media. Dabbour's fiery statements on foreign policy are frequently quoted by the press. The party is less known than its pro-Iraqi counterpart, the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party. It is the party branch of the Syrian-dominated Ba'ath Party in Jordan. Fuad Dabbour is the branch's Regional Secretary. It is believed that the party has fewer than 200 members.\n\n\nThe Lebanese branch was established in 1966, the year of the Ba'ath Party split. During the Lebanese Civil War, the party had an armed militia called the Assad Battalion. The party joined forces with Kamal Jumblatt's Progressive Socialist Party in organizing the National Democratic Movement, seeking to abolish the confessional state. The National Democratic Movement was superseded by the National Democratic Front, in which the party participated. The party organized resistance against Israeli forces in Lebanon. In July 1987, it took part in forming the Unification and Liberation Front.\n\nIn the 2009 parliamentary election, the party won two seats as part of the March 8 Alliance. The parliamentarians of the party are Assem Qanso and Qassem Hashem. The current leader of the party is Fayez Shukr. Wael Nader al-Halqi, the Prime Minister of Syria, praised the Lebanon Regional Branch leadership, stating that they supported the Syrian leadership and stayed loyal to the Assads despite the Syrian occupation of Lebanon and in times of conspiracies and attacks.\n\nA Syrian branch was established in Mauritania in 1981.\n\nPalestinian Samir al-Attari was a member of the National Command in the 1970s. Until 1970, as-Saiqa remained under the control of Jadid.\n\n\n\nDuring the 1980s, the party was called Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Organization of Sudan (differentiating it from the pro-Iraqi party, called Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Country of Sudan). The party participated in the 1986 election as part of the Progressive National Front.\n\nThe party held its third regional congress in Khartoum on February 5–6, 2009. The congress elected a 23-member Central Committee, an 11-member Regional Command and a regional secretary (Altijani Mustafa Yassin). The congress stated that the party sought cooperation with the National Congress Party for the sake of forming a national front. The party staunchly opposed independence of South Sudan.\n\nIt was reported in 2010 that Ahmad Alahmad, the Secretary General of the Arab Socialist Movement, was a member of the Sudanese regional leadership.\n\n\nThe party slogan \"Unity, Freedom, Socialism\" is enshrined in the Constitution of the Syrian Arab Republic. The eighth article of the Constitution stipulated that \"[t]he leading party in the society and the state is the ... Ba'ath Party. It leads the National Progressive Front seeking to unify the resources of the masses of the people and place them at the service of the goals of the Arab nation\". The Constitution was adopted in 1973. As per the Constitution of the Syrian Arab Republic, it is the Regional Command of the party that nominates the candidate for president of the republic. The Constitution does not explicitly say that the president has to be the leader of the party, but the National Progressive Front (NPF) charter states that president of the Syrian Arab Republic and the secretary of the party is also the president of the NPF.\n\nThe party has dominated the Syrian parliament since 1963. The party leads the National Progressive Front and in all elections conducted under this constitution has obtained the majority of the 167 parliamentary seats reserved for the Front. In the 2003 parliamentary election, the party secured 135 of the seats.\n\nAs of the mid-2000s, the party membership in Syria was estimated at 800,000. Key party organs in Syria are \"Al-Ba'ath\" and \"Al-Thawra\".\n\nThe Syrian Regional Command has 21 members. As of 1987, the Syrian Regional Command comprised the three vice presidents of the Syrian Arab Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defense, the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, the parliamentary speaker, the Aleppo and Hama party secretaries as well as the heads of the party bureaus for trade unions, economy and higher education.\n\nThe seventh Syrian regional party congress was held in January 1980. The congress created a new institution, the Central Committee, to act as an intermediary body between the Regional Command and local branches. The Central Committee had 75 members. The eighth regional congress decided to expand the Central Committee to 95 members. The Central Committee was charged with electing the Regional Command, which previously had been done by the regional congress delegates. The Central Committee represents the regional congress when the congress is not in session.\n\nThe party has 19 branches in Syria: one in each of the thirteen provinces: one in Damascus, one in Aleppo and one at each of the four universities. In most cases, the governor of a province, police chief, mayor and other local dignitaries make up the Branch Command, but the Branch Command Secretary and other executive positions are filled by party whole-timers.\n\nThe Syrian regional party congress is held every four years. While it is a strictly orchestrated affair, the regional congress has been a venue for actual debates on current affairs. Criticism against corruption and economic stagnation were expressed at the 1985 regional congress, albeit candidly. This congress was attended by 771 branch delegates.\n\nThe party has a parallel structure within the Syrian armed forces. The military and civilian sectors only meet at the regional level, as the military sector is represented in the Regional Command and sends delegates to regional congresses. The military sector is divided into branches, operating at the battalion level. The head of a military party branch is called a \"tawjihi\" (\"guide\").\n\nThe party has an Inspection and Control Committee, instituted in 1980. The Party Security Law was passed in 1979, criminalizing \"deviations\" inside the party and attacks on the party.\n\nThe party has three bureaus for coordinating work in mass organizations: the Popular Organizations Bureau (coordinating the People's Army militia, the Revolutionary Youth Union, Students Union and the General Union of Syrian Women); the Workers Bureau (coordinating the General Federation of Trade Unions); and the Peasants Bureau (coordinating the Peasants Federation). Children joined the Vanguards, an organization for grade-school boys and girls. Vanguards attended paramilitary summer camps operated by the armed forces. In the mid-1970s, the party ran a mass campaign for the mobilization of peasants into the Peasants Federation.\n\nThe party has its own system of political education, including the Higher Political Institute (a graduate school of the University of Damascus).\n\nAbdul Halim Khaddam resigned as National Command and Central Committee member in mid-2005.\n\nThere is no formal structure linked to the Damascus-based Ba'ath Party. Most Ba'athists in Tunisia support the Iraqi faction as members of the Ba'ath Movement or the more leftist and radical the Party of the Arab and Democratic Vanguard. Only a small number of militants headed by Mohamed Salah Hermassi (a member of the Damascus-based National Command) are historically linked to Damascus.\n\nBa'athism in Yemen originated in the 1950s. The party worked underground until 1990. It obtained official registration as the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Yemen Region on December 31, 1995 (while the other group had to register as the National Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party). The regional secretary of the party in Yemen is Mohammed Al-Zubairy. The party ran in the 1993 parliamentary election, winning seven seats. In the 1997 and 2003 parliamentary elections, the party won two seats. In 2003, the party got 0.66% of the national vote. The party supported Ali Abdullah Saleh in the 1999 presidential election.\n\nAbdullah al-Ahmar led a central party delegation to the 4th Regional Congress of the Yemenite Ba'ath in 2006.\n\nIn December 2008, the party and the National Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party agreed to coordinate their political activities.\n\nIn November 2010, one of the key leaders of the party in Yemen, Ali Ahmad Nasser al-Dhahab, died. He had been assistant secretary of the Regional Command and a Member of Parliament since 1993.\n\nIn March 2013, Linda Mohammed, the head of the region's Women section, left the party in protest at the Yemenite leadership's continued support for Bashar al-Assad and the Syrian Ba'ath.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34034000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34034000", "title": "Baking Pot", "text": "Baking Pot\n\nBaking Pot is a Maya archaeological site located in the Belize River Valley on the southern bank of the river, northeast of modern-day town of San Ignacio in the Cayo District of Belize; it is downstream from the Barton Ramie and Lower Dover archaeological sites. Baking Pot is associated with an extensive amount of research into Maya settlements, community-based archaeology, and of agricultural production; the site possesses lithic workshops, and possible evidence of cash-cropping cacao as well as a long occupation from the Preclassic through to the Postclassic period.\n\nThe site at Baking Pot is unique in that it had a large population during the Terminal Classic while other sites in the Belize River Valley were declining, and occupation continued into the Postclassic whereas major Classic Period sites in the southern lowlands were by then abandoned. After the Classic period site cores in much of the Belize Valley were abandoned, but at Baking Pot “survey and excavation of house mounds and plazuela groups immediately outside the site core suggested that Postclassic occupation there is more substantial and prolonged than in the site core”. The abundance of Tayasal-associated Augustine Red ceramics at Baking Pot, along with the association of these ceramics with a different organizational and settlement pattern suggest that there was an intrusion of people from central Petén during this time. Researchers like Aimers favor a gradual abandonment of the site at a much later time period than other sites in the region.\n\nIn the late Preclassic, Baking Pot had a small population with little public architecture. In the Early Classic, the site experienced a construction boom. Two architectural groups were built, with Group A to the north and Group B (containing the largest structure at Baking Pot) to the south. This north-south orientation is similar to nearby Xunantunich. Earlier excavators like Ricketson, Gordon Willey, and Bullard and Bullard describe these groups as Group 1 and Group 2. These major complexes make up the center of Baking Pot and are connected by a causeway (or \"sacbe\"). In the Late Classic, the population increased to approximately 3000 people. Toward the end of the Classic period the local elite left and the palace complexes in the city center were abandoned. In the early Postclassic, people were still living on a portion of the site but rarely used the ceremonial center and there was very little new construction. Much of the people living at Baking Pot were farmers; being close to the Belize River the site has fertile soil in an alluvial valley and is primarily associated with agricultural production.\n\nIn the 1920s, A.H. Anderson first conducted archaeological research at Baking Pot after some materials from the site were used in the construction of the western highway. Later excavations by Oliver Ricketson, Gordon Willey in the 1950s and William Bullard and Mary Bullard completed major excavations in the 1960s. Wiley is best known for his excavations and settlement research at Barton Ramie and for his focus on Maya households during a time when most people were only focused on elite. Limited work was done at the site during the 1920s, 1950s, and 1960s until the Belize Valley Archeological Reconnaissance Project started working there in the 1990s, with its work continuing into the 21st century with BVAR researchers working under the direction of Dr. Jaime Awe, including Jim Conlon, Jim Aimers, Josalyn Ferguson, Jennifer Piehl, Carolyn Audet, Christophe Helmke, and Julie Hoggarth.\n\nA complex water management system exists at the site, including a series of aguadas and seasonal streams, along with the presence of drains in the palace complex, work to feed water from the foothills to the south down through the site and into the aduadas before dumping into the Belize River. Baking Pot is named after large pots were found by archaeologists that were once used to boil chicle. At the Bedran group nearby, a house group that was excavated, burial grave goods were found including painted ceramic vessels with a primary standard sequence around the top dated to the Early Classic. These vessels were cacao drinking vessels and were thought to contain a placename: \n\"Four Water Place\", although this is now reinterpreted as a royal title. There are no carved monuments at Baking Pot, although several uncarved stelae and uncarved altars have been found.\n\nA causeway extends south and to the west of Group B and ends at a causeway terminus structure (Mound 190). Here hundreds of broken vessels were found in front of the stairway, possibly from a termination ritual. Mound 190 had deposits with finger bones, an altar, and intact mini ceramic vessels below it with tiny specks of jade. This mound also contains evidence of ritual activity and is believed to be used for ritual/ceremonial purposes. The discovery of finger bones is similar to the finger bowl caches associated with Caracol (and also found at Cahal Pech) and may provide evidence of Caracol control or influence at Baking Pot at the time. Vessel 2 at Baking Pot describes its owner in a similar structure that is found at Caracol as well. Naranjo pottery has also been found here at Baking Pot, and evidence for a push to control the Belize River Valley after the fall of Tikal was described on a monument at Xunantunich.\n\n"}
{"id": "52223568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52223568", "title": "Biosemiotics (journal)", "text": "Biosemiotics (journal)\n\nBiosemiotics is a triannual peer-reviewed scientific journal on biosemiotics published by Springer Science+Business Media. It was established in 2008 with 3 issues per year and is an official journal of the \"International Society for Biosemiotic Studies\". The editors-in-chief are Timo Maran (University of Tartu), Alexei Sharov (National Institute on Aging), and Morten Tønnessen (University of Stavanger).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 1.527.\n"}
{"id": "1271445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271445", "title": "Bobrinski Bucket", "text": "Bobrinski Bucket\n\nThe Bobrinski Bucket is a 12th-century bronze bucket originally manufactured for a merchant in Herat in 1163 out of bronze with copper and silver inlaid decorations. It provides one of the earliest examples of Persian anthropomorphic calligraphy. It is named after a former owner, Count Bobrinsky, and is now in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30864128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864128", "title": "Book swapping", "text": "Book swapping\n\nBook swapping or book exchange is the practice of a swap of books between one person and another. Practiced among book groups, friends and colleagues at work, it provides an inexpensive way for people to exchange books, find out about new books and obtain a new book to read without having to pay. Because swaps occur between individuals, without central distribution or warehousing, and without the copyright owner making a profit, the practice has been compared to peer-to-peer (P2P) systems such as BitTorrent—except that hard-copy original analog objects are exchanged.\n\nMany colleges and universities have developed online book exchange programs to help students save money on textbooks. Some colleges build their own systems and others use systems from third party service providers.\n\nSome book exchanges are informal - a shelf or box is provided where books can be left or picked up. The exchange relies on users leaving and taking books and is generally not supervised.\n\nThis is a frequent practice in youth hostels where travellers can leave a book and take a different book with them. Some railway stations in Great Britain have informal book exchanges and one has also been set up in a phone box in Kington Magna.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38566163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38566163", "title": "Bureaucratic inertia", "text": "Bureaucratic inertia\n\nBureaucratic inertia is the inevitable tendency of bureaucratic organizations to perpetuate the established procedures and modes, even if they are counterproductive and/or diametrically opposed to established organizational goals. This unchecked growth may continue independently of the organization's success or failure. Through bureaucratic inertia, organizations tend to take on a life of their own beyond their formal objectives.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture has offices in almost all U.S. counties, even though only 14% of counties have valid farms or existing agricultural relevancy.\n\nThe Boston Consulting Group has advised firms to cut down on bureaucratic inertia and advised firms to eliminate cruft, bloat, and redundancy in the aspects of the business which are not front-line for the consumer (i.e. the \"face\" of the company who the customer deals with and who the customer thinks is the value-provider of the company).\n"}
{"id": "1363380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1363380", "title": "Calliope", "text": "Calliope\n\nIn Greek mythology, Calliope ( ; , \"Kalliopē\" \"beautiful-voiced\") is the muse who presides over eloquence and epic poetry; so called from the ecstatic harmony of her voice. Hesiod and Ovid called her the \"Chief of all Muses.\" \n\nOne account says Calliope was the lover of the war god Ares, and bore him several sons: Mygdon, Edonus, Biston, and Odomantus (or Odomas), respectively the founders of Thracian tribes known as the Mygdones, Edones, Bistones, and Odomantes. Otherwise these children were attributed to her namesake Calliope, daughter of river-god Nestus.\n\nCalliope also had two famous sons, Orpheus and Linus, by either Apollo or the king Oeagrus of Thrace. She taught Orpheus verses for singing. According to Hesiod, she was also the wisest of the Muses, as well as the most assertive. Calliope married Oeagrus close to Pimpleia, Olympus. She is said to have defeated the daughters of Pierus, king of Thessaly, in a singing match, and then, to punish their presumption, turned them into magpies. (see Ovid, \"Metamorphoses\" 5.294–340, 662–78)\n\nShe was sometimes believed to be Homer's muse for the Iliad and the Odyssey. The Roman epic poet, Virgil, invokes her in the Aeneid (9.525). In some cases, she is said to be the Mother of sirens.\n\nCalliope is usually seen with a writing tablet in her hand. At times, she is depicted carrying a roll of paper or a book or wearing a gold crown. She would also be seen with her children.\n\nThe Italian poet, Dante Alighieri, in his \"Divine Comedy\", refers to Calliope:\n"}
{"id": "24664104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24664104", "title": "Castell Bryn Gwyn", "text": "Castell Bryn Gwyn\n\nCastell Bryn Gwyn is a prehistoric site on the Isle of Anglesey, west of Brynsiencyn. It is a circular clay and gravel bank covered with grass, still some 1.5m high and revetted externally by stone walls, which surround a level area some 54 metres in diameter. Its name means \"White Hill Castle\".\n\nThe original use of this site is uncertain although it may have been a religious sanctuary. Later Neolithic pottery indicates use in this period, and it may have been a henge monument at this time. The earliest bank and ditch belong to the end of the neolithic period (2500-2000 BC). During the Iron Age, the present wall was built, and it was refortified in Roman times and later.\n\nParking is exiguous; the site is accessible from the A4080 by a footpath. Another path follows the low ridge, southwest over stiles to the Bryn Gwyn stones, or northeast, past the site of the former stone circle of Tre'r Dryw Bach, some 800 metres to Caer Lêb where it meets a minor road with limited parking space.\n\n"}
{"id": "872602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=872602", "title": "Cochabamba", "text": "Cochabamba\n\nCochabamba (; ) is a city and municipality in central Bolivia in a valley in the Andes mountain range. It is the capital of the Cochabamba Department and the fourth largest city in Bolivia, with a population of 630,587 according to the 2012 Bolivian census. Its name is from a compound of the Quechua words \"qucha\" \"lake\" and \"pampa\", \"open plain.\" Residents of the city and the surrounding areas are commonly referred to as \"cochalas\" or, more formally, \"cochabambinos\".\n\nIt is known as the \"City of Eternal Spring\" or \"The Garden City\" because of its spring-like temperatures all year round. It is also known as \"La Llajta,\" which means \"town\" in Quechua.\n\nThe Cochabamba valley has been inhabited for thousands of years due to its fertile productive soils and mild climate. Archaeological evidence suggests that the initial inhabitants were of indigenous ethnic groups: Tiwanaku, Tupuraya, Mojocoya, Omereque, and Inca inhabited the valley at times before the Spanish arrived.\n\nThe area got its name, from Quechua Kochaj-pampa, as part of the Inca civilization. The area was conquered by Topa Inca Yupanqui (ruled 1471-1493). His son Huayna Capac turned Cochabamba into a large production enclave or state farm to serve the Incas. Possibly depopulated during the conquest, Huayna Capac imported 14,000 people, called mitimas, to work the land. The principal crop was maize which could not be grown in much of the high and cold heartland of the Inca Empire. The maize was stored in 2,400 storehouses (qollqas) in the hills overlooking the valley or transported by llama caravan to storage sites in Paria, Cusco, of other Inca administrative centers. Most of the maize was probably used to sustain the Inca army during its campaigns.\n\nThe first Spanish inhabitant of the valley was Garci Ruiz de Orellana in 1542. He purchased the majority of the land from local tribal chiefs Achata and Consavana through a title registered in 1552 at the Imperial City of Potosí. The price paid was 130 pesos. His residence, known as the House of Mayorazgo, stands in the Cala Cala neighborhood.\n\nThe city, called Villa de Oropesa, was founded on 2 August 1571 by order of Viceroy Francisco de Toledo, Count of Oropesa. It was to be an agricultural production centre to provide food and wood for the mining towns of the relatively nearby Altiplano region, particularly Potosí which became one of the largest and richest cities in the world during the 16th and 17th centuries — funding the vast wealth that ultimately made Spain a world power. In fact, Anthropologist Jack Weatherford and others have cited the city of Potosí as the birth of capitalism because of the money it and materialism it provided Spain. Thus, with the silver mining industry in Potosi at its height, Cochabamba thrived during its first centuries. However, the city entered a period of decline during the 18th century as mining began to wane.\n\nIn 1786, King Charles III of Spain renamed the city to the 'loyal and valiant' Villa of Cochabamba. This was done to commend the city's pivotal role in suppressing the indigenous rebellions of 1781 in Oruro by sending armed forces to Oruro to quell the uprisings. Since the late 19th century it has again been generally successful as an agricultural centre for Bolivia.\n\nThe 1793 census shows that the city had a population of 22,305 persons. There were 12,980 mestizos, 6,368 Spaniards, 1,182 indigenous natives, 1,600 mulattos and 175 African slaves.\n\nIn 1812, Cochabamba was the site of a riot against the Spanish Army. On May 27, thousands of women took up arms against the Spanish. According to historian Nathaniel Aguirre: \"From Cochabamba, many men have fled. Not one woman. On the hillside, a great clamor. Cochabamba's plebeian women, at bay, fight from the center of a circle of fire. Surrounded by five thousand Spaniards, they resist with battered tin guns and a few arquebuses; and they fight to the last yell, whose echoes will resound throughout the long war for independence. Whenever his army weakens, General Manuel Belgrano will shout those words which never fail to restore courage and spark anger. The general will ask his vacillating soldiers: \"'Are the women of Cochabamba present?\"\"\n\nTo celebrate their bravery, Bolivia now marks May 27 as Mother's Day.\n\nIn 1900, the population was 21,886.\n\nBesides a number of schools and charitable institutions, the diocese has 55 parishes, 80 churches and chapels, and 160 priests.\n\nIn 1998, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) agreed to give Bolivia a loan of $138 million to control inflation and promote economic growth. However, it only agreed to do so on the condition that Bolivia sell \"all remaining public enterprises,\" including its national oil refineries and the local water company, SEMAPA. In 1999, a group of private investors, specifically the Bechtel Corporation, came together under the name of Aguas del Tunari and bought the rights for the privatization of the city's water. In that same year, the World Bank (WB) refused to subsidize the water to help lower the cost for the people. Then in 2000, the people of Cochabamba began to protest as water priced hiked to a 50% increase that the majority could not afford. The Coalition for the Defense of Water and Life, and its leader Oscar Olivera, started a demonstration in \"La Plaza 14 de Septiembre\" also known as \"La Plaza Principal.\" The march was meant to be peaceful, but after two days the police used tear gas against the protestors and injured about 175 people and blinded two. Soon after, news reports were made about the protests and the violence. The Defense of Water and Life held an unofficial referendum and 96% of 50,000 people want Aguas del Tunari's contract to terminate, but the government refused. The protests only grew and the entire world began to watch forcing Bechtel to leave its contract and return SEMAPA to the public. Bechtel as well tried to sue the Bolivian government for $50 million but it withdrew its claim shortly after. This event was soon labeled the Water Wars and became a driving force for anti-globalization projects such as the UN's decision to make water sanitation a human right and privatization of water as unethical in 2010. Additionally, the Water Wars would help spark the next revolt against the privatization of natural gases in 2003 to 2005 that would lead to the removal of two presidents and the rise of President Evo Morales in 2006.\n\nIn January 2007 city dwellers clashed with mostly rural protestors, leaving four dead and over 130 injured. The first democratically elected Prefect of Cochabamba, Manfred Reyes Villa, had allied himself with the leaders of Bolivia's Eastern Departments in a dispute with President Evo Morales over regional autonomy and other political issues. The protestors blockaded the highways, bridges, and main roads, having days earlier set fire to the departmental seat of government, trying to force the resignation of Reyes Villa. Citizens attacked the protestors, breaking the blockade and routing them, while the police did little to stop the violence. Further attempts by the protestors to reinstate the blockade and threaten the government were unsuccessful, but the underlying tensions have not been resolved.\n\nIn July 2007, a monument erected by veterans of January's protest movement in honor of those killed and injured by government supporters was destroyed in the middle of the night, reigniting racial conflicts in the city.\n\nIn August 2008, a nationwide referendum was held. The prefect of Cochabamba, Manfred Reyes Villa, was not confirmed by the voters of the department.\n\nCochabamba's famous \"Eternal Spring\" continues to hold sway over the hearts of true Cochalos. Neither experiencing the humid heat of Santa Cruz nor the frigid winds of La Paz, Cochabamba enjoys a semi-arid climate (Köppen: BSk). The characteristic of the climate is an extended dry season that runs from May until October with a wet season that generally begins in November with the principal rains ending in March.\nCochabamba is known as the heart of Bolivia and the gastronomic capital. Traditional cuisine includes: salteñas, chuño, tucumanas, pique macho, silpancho, anticucho, sopa de mani, chicharrón, and many more dishes.\n\nCommensurate with other large cities in the Andean highlands of South America, Cochabamba is a city of contrasts. Its central commercial districts, bounded by Plaza Colón and Plaza 14 de Septiembre, are generally equipped with modern urban amenities and are where the majority of the city's formal business and commercial industries are based. La Cancha, the largest open air market in South America, is also an active place where locals can buy a range of items. An active nightlife is centered around Calle España and along the broad, tree-lined boulevard, El Prado. In contrast, the remote area adjacent to the Wilstermann International Airport is visibly impoverished, with adobe homes and unpaved roads, which is often the first impression visitors acquire while commuting into the city.\n\nIn 2009, the government under President Evo Morales created a new constitution that declared Spanish and 36 other indigenous languages as the official languages of the country. However, the most widely spoken languages in Cochabamba are Spanish and Quechua. Although the Spanish that is spoken in the Cochabamba region is generally regarded as rather conservative in its phonetics and vocabulary, the use of Quechua terminology (\"wawa\" [child] and \"wistupiku\" [mouth or twist lips]) has been widely incorporated into its standardized form.\n\nAs with most cities around the globe, English language is increasingly spoken and understood, particularly among business-minded indigenous and repatriated Cochabambinos. English-language instruction has become incorporated into some private schools and universities, but is not taught universally, therefore a vast majority of the population does not speak English.\n\nAbout four-fifths of the population of Bolivia identifies as Catholic.\n\nThe city's demographics consist of the following visible groups in order of prevalence: Western Hemispheric indigenous (mostly of Quechua and Aymara ethnicity), Mestizo or mixed Indigenous, and a minority of white Caucasoid and mixed white (Criollos).\n\nCochabamba, formally the municipality of Cercado, is the capital of Cochabamba department. The city government is divided into executive and legislative branches. The mayor of Cochabamba is the head of the city government, elected by general election for a term of five years. The mayor heads an executive branch, which includes six sub-mayors and a variety of departments comprising 950 functionaries. The 11-member municipal council is the legislative branch.\n\nThe current mayor is José María Leyes of the Social Democrat Movement (MDS for its initials in Spanish).\n\nThe area where Cochabamba is situated is commonly referred to as the granary of Bolivia. Its climate is milder than that of the Altiplano region to the west and thus permits extensive agriculture, including grains, potatoes, and coffee in the highlands and sugar cane, cocoa beans, tobacco, and fruit in the Chapare tropical lowlands, an area that had been one of the country's main coca-leaf-producing regions.\n\nCochabamba is also the industrial hub of Bolivia, producing cars, cleaning products, cosmetics, chemicals, and other items like cement. The economy of Cochabamba is characterized by produce goods and services. Recently, the software industry is becoming important with one big company (Jalasoft ) and several small software developers.\n\nThe airline Boliviana de Aviación has its headquarters in Cochabamba. The defunct airline Lloyd Aéreo Boliviano (LAB Airlines) had its management offices on the grounds of Jorge Wilstermann Airport in Cochabamba. In Cochabamba construction has been rapidly increasing in the last couple of years with more than 750 construction sites per year.\n\nCochabamba is one of the main hubs for cocaine dealers in South America. In June 2012 the Colombian newspaper \"El Tiempo\" gained access to intelligence reports that showed that cocaine cartels were the economic force behind condominiums and real estate as well as industries such as meat processing.\n\nThe metropolitan area of Cochabamba (Vinto, Tiquipaya, Quillacollo, Colcapirhua, Cochabamba and Sacaba) has an extensive transportation system, which cover all the districts.\n\nThere are almost 70 bus and minibus lines, from A to Z, and dozens of minibuses and taxi lines trufis. Most lines have GPS system for monitoring and regulation of hour (line 1, line 16, line L, Line 3V, line 20, line 30, etc.). The service or commonly called T.RU.FI (taxi con ruta fija) has at least 60 lines; they are identified by signs on the roof of the vehicle showing the route from the initial stop until the final stop is also indicated line number to which it belongs.\n\nThe busiest bus lines are:\n\n\nAnd the busiest taxi trufi lines are:\n\n\nConstruction on an interurban light rail network linking Cochabamba with Suticollo, El Castillo and San Simon University began in 2017 and is due to be finished in 2020.\n\nThese companies are nationally recognized:\n\n\nCochabamba, as a department with high turnover, have established many media including:\n\nThere are several newspapers in Cochabamba; there is also movement of national and international newspapers, highlighting the following:\n\nThe main radio stations scattered across the department and the capital are:\n\nIn the capital and throughout the department there are many television channels that broadcast on a local, provincial, national or international all day or part of it. The transmission towers that transmit channels nationally and internationally are in the high Cala Cala, Villa Moscu or Villa Taquiña.\n\n\nThe city is the home of the University of San Simón (UMSS, for \"Universidad Mayor de San Simón\"), one of the largest and most prominent public universities in Bolivia. UMSS is the second best university in Bolivia according to QS World University Rankings in 2013, but measured by the webmetric scores as the first one during 2013-2017. Among the private universities in Bolivia ranking between the top ten are the Universidad Privada Boliviana (a prestigious business university), Universidad del Valle (strong university in medicine with large enrollment of international students) and Universidad Católica Boliviana \"San Pablo\". Other well-ranked universities includes Escuela Militar de Ingenieria \"Antonio Jose de Sucre\", Universidad Simón I. Patiño, Universidad de Aquino Bolivia, Universidad Adventista de Bolivia, Universidad Privada Domingo Savio and Universidad Privada Abierta Latinoamericana (UPAL). Cochabamba became the second recipient city of Brazilians student in Bolivia after the city of Santa Cruz due to the affordable and good living conditions of the city.\nAlso is the home of one of the best schools of Bolivia, Colegio San Agustín\n\nCochabamba is served by the modern Jorge Wilstermann International Airport (IATA code CBB), which handles domestic and international flights. It houses the headquarters of Boliviana de Aviación (BOA) Bolivia's national airline and Lloyd Aéreo Boliviano, Bolivia's former national airline. Other domestic airlines that serve the airport include Amaszonas, Ecojet, and Transportes Aéreo Militar.\n\nCochabamba is a steadily emerging market within the Bolivian real estate industry. Since 2010, it became the city with most surface area in construction in Bolivia overpassing Santa Cruz and La Paz. There are many middle and large buildings under construction by 2012. An annual mild climate, abundant greenery, mountain vistas, and a progressive local economy are factors that have contributed to the city's appeal for Bolivian nationals, expatriates and foreigners alike. Historic and affluent neighbourhoods such as Cala Cala, El Mirador, and Lomas de Aranjuez showcase some of the city's most distinguished residences.\n\n\n\nThe city is connected with the next towns and cities:\n\n\nHistorically, Cochabamba has been a destination for many Bolivians due to relatively improved economic opportunities and a more temperate climate. Bolivia's current President Evo Morales and ex-president Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada were both Senators representing Cochabamba, although they were born in Oruro and La Paz respectively and immigrated to Cochabamba at the start of their political careers.\n\nAfter the road to the eastern city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra was completed in the 1950s, thousands of people from Cochabamba migrated to the lowlands and permanently settled. Many migrants from Cochabamba and their descendants now identify themselves as Cambas after absorbing the regional Bolivian culture of the eastern lowlands, but maintain familiar ties with relatives that remained in Cochabamba.\n\nA large population of Bolivian and Bolivian-descended residents is in the Greater Washington, D.C.-Baltimore–Northern Virginia area of United States (2005 US Census estimates 27,452 +/- 8,883 Bolivians for DC, Virginia, and Maryland); the highest concentration is in Arlington County, Virginia. These figures may represent a census undercount of undocumented Bolivian alien residents. These combined communities have become the centre for recent and established Bolivian immigrants, most of whom are from the department and city of Cochabamba, hence, locally regarded as \"Little Cochabamba\" or \"Arlibamba\". Little Cochabamba contains Bolivian-cuisine restaurants and the Escuela Bolivia; a school-within-a-school programme for children and adults.\n\nAfter to the mid-1990s, many people from Cochabamba with a low income emigrated to Bergamo, Italy in search of work. Most of the 16,400 (2005 estimate) Bolivians in Bergamo are from Cochabamba which includes both legal and work visa-expired immigrants. This migration is due to the strong relationship between the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bergamo and the Archdiocese of Cochabamba.\n\n\n author of the Cochabamba Hymn\n\n\nCochabamba has cooperations with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3057990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3057990", "title": "Double consciousness", "text": "Double consciousness\n\nDouble consciousness is a term describing the internal conflict experienced by subordinated groups in an oppressive society. It was coined by W. E. B. Du Bois with reference to African American \"double consciousness,\" including his own, and published in the autoethnographic work, \"The Souls of Black Folk\". The term originally referred to the psychological challenge of \"always looking at one's self through the eyes\" of a racist white society, and \"measuring oneself by the means of a nation that looked back in contempt\". The term also referred to Du Bois' experiences of reconciling his African heritage with an upbringing in a European-dominated society. The term has since been applied to numerous situations of social inequality, notably women living in patriarchal societies.\n\nThe term originated from an article of Du Bois's titled \"Strivings of the Negro People\", published in the August 1897 issue of the \"Atlantic Monthly\". It was later republished and slightly edited under the title \"Of Our Spiritual Strivings\" in his book, \"The Souls of Black Folk\". Du Bois describes double consciousness as follows:\n\nThe idea of double consciousness was important because it illuminated the experiences of black folks living in a world post-slavery, and it set a framework for understanding the positionality of oppressed people in an oppressive world. As a result, it became used to explain the dynamics of gender, colonialism, xenophobia and more alongside race. This theory laid a strong foundation for other critical theorists to expand upon.\n\nPaul Gilroy used theories of culture and race to the study and construction of African American intellectual history. He is known especially for marking a turning point in the study of the African diasporas. His book \"The Black Atlantic: Modernity and Double Consciousness\" (1993) introduces the Black Atlantic as a source for cultural construction. Paul Gilroy pioneers a shift in contemporary black studies by arguing that we should reject the notion of a homogeneous nation-state based nationality in favor of analyzing \"the Atlantic as one single, complex unit of analysis in their discussions of the modern world and use it to produce an explicitly transnational and intercultural perspective\". He based this on the Atlantic slave trade and marked it as the foundation for the diaspora. He recognized the significance of European and African transnational travel as a foundation for double consciousness. Gilroy used Du Bois' theory of double consciousness to suggest there exists an internal struggle to reconcile being both European and Black, which was his main focus in Black Atlantic. He even characterized the Black Atlantic by the influence of slave trade \"routes\" on black identity. He aimed to unify black culture with the connection to the homeland as well the cultural exchanges that occurred afterward. He was also influential in the political black British movement, in which he popularized his theories.\n\nGilroy argues that occupying the space between these two dialectally subjectivities is \"viewed as a provocative and even oppositional act of political insubordination\". This means that for Black people across Diaspora, thinking of the duality in their identity as one is almost paradoxical and conceptualizing and actualizing this is a move of symbolic resistance in modernity.\n\nVery similarly to Du Bois, Franz Fanon touched upon the term of Double Consciousness in his life. In his first book, Black Skin, White Masks, where he expressed his hopelessness at being neither white nor black. Fanon identifies the double consciousness that African Americans face and its source; he claimed the cultural and social confusions of African Americans were caused by European culture. He gave examples of things that he has encountered that demonstrate the double consciousness. He talks about people who preach about completely conforming to being white and says that they are wrong. He also says that the people who believe that complete rejection of whites are also wrong.\n\nHe then proceeds to talk about why the African American adopts cultures that are so strange to him. He talks about how when an African American leaves for Europe, they come back speaking a language different from their own. He also talks about how African, mostly the wealthiest, tend to have insecurities of not being European enough because they are African. This manifests in buying European furniture and buying European clothes.\n\nIn addition to this he talks about the way white men talk to African Americans and how it contributes to this problem of double consciousness. He says that when a white man talks to an African American man he is changing his language to a way in which a stereotypical black man would talk, similarly to how one would talk to a child, with different language sophistication and slang. He says that this angers the African American because he feels as though he has been categorized and imprisoned into a box from which he cannot escape due to this judgement. He gives an example of a film where this stereotype is portrayed and then talks about how African Americans need to be educated to not follow the stereotypes displayed by white culture.\n\nStephen Greenblatt also uses it to describe the peculiar quality of Shakespeare's consciousness in his biography of the bard, \"Will in the World\" (2004).\n\nWithin the last fifteen years, DuBois' theory of double consciousness has been revisited to develop a more inclusive concept of triple consciousness. This triple consciousness may include another intersecting identity that impacts someone's social experiences. Additional identities that may affect the already present double consciousness experience might include ethnicity or gender. For example, Juan Flores identified ethnicity as a potential aspect that influences double consciousness by speculating Afro-Latinos in the U.S. experienced an added layer discrimination that combined skin color with ethnicity and nationality. Anna Julia Cooper similarly references the intersectionality of race and gender within her work \"A Voice from the South\" where she states: \"Only the black woman can say 'when and where I enter, in the quiet, undisputed dignity of my womanhood, without violence and without suing or special patronage, then and there the whole ... race enters with me\". Finally, Jossianna Arroyo explains that triple consciousness brings \"spaces, culture, and skin ... [to] recontextualize blackness\" in the case of black Puerto Ricans.\n\nJust like any other thought in critical race analysis, double consciousness theory cannot be divorced from gender. This is where black feminists have introduced their concept of the triple consciousness. Black women not only have to see themselves through the lens of blackness and whiteness, but also through the lens of patriarchy. Whenever they are in black spaces, women still have to situate themselves in the context of patriarchy. Whenever that they are in fem spaces, they must still situate themselves in the context of their blackness. Deborah Gray White puts it best when she writes, \"African American women are confronted with an impossible task. If she is rescued from the myth of the negro, the myth of the woman traps her. If she escapes the myth of the women, the myth of the negro still ensnares her\".\n\nAmong the double burdens that feminists faced was fighting for women's' rights as well as rights for people of color. Frances M. Beale wrote that the situation of black women was full of misconceptions and distortions of the truth. In her pamphlet \"Double Jeopardy: To Be Black and Female\", she claimed that capitalism was the direct forebearer of racism because the system was indirectly a way to destroy the humanity of black people.\n\n\"In any society where men are not yet free, women are less free because we are further enslaved because we [African American women] are enslaved by our sex.\" Many African American women turned towards feminism in their fight against oppression because \"there was an awareness that they were being treated as second-class citizens within the Civil Right's movement of the 60's.\" Due to this many women felt that they were being asked to choose between \"a Black movement that primarily served the interest of Black male patriarchs and a women's movement which primarily served the interests of racist white women.\"\n\nThe first portion of Black Power labeled \"White Power\" by Kwame Ture (formerly known as Stokely Carmichael) and Charles V. Hamilton provides evidence backing up the ideology of double consciousness in regards to blacks in the United States. The book opens up by defining racism as \"the predication of decisions and policies on considerations of race for the purpose of subordinating a racial group and maintaining control over that group\" (Hamilton & Ture, 3). Therefore the subordinating group, blacks, must think of themselves in terms of the oppressive population, white. Individual racism and institutional racism both contribute to double consciousness. On an individual level double consciousness is practiced within every day interactions and on an institutional level it impacts how blacks function throughout society. \"Black People are legal citizens of the United States with, for the most part, the same legal rights as other citizens. Yet they stand as colonial subjects in relations to the with society.\" Therefore, while the black population in the United States are essentially equal to whites under written law, there remains deeply rooted inequities between the races and therefore reinforce double consciousness. Because these differences are not evident under the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, they are an experience.\n\nEven though the framework of double consciousness can be applied to Diaspora and Transnationality, it is important to understand that the nuances of racial dynamics differ from nation to nation. As Tina Campt notes in \"Other Germans: Black Germans and the Politics of Race, Gender, and Memory in the Third Reich,\" the tension for Afro-German who \"came of age during the totalitarian regime of the Third Reich ... was not necessarily experienced as one of absolute duality or 'twoness.' Rather, it was a contradictory and complexly textured form of identity ...\". Due to the absence of a presence of a Black community in Germany, along with other European nations, \"most Afro-Germans did not have the option of choosing between a Black community or identity and a German identity\". They were essentially forced to \"occupy a position between a conception of German identity that excluded blackness and a conception of blackness that precluded any identification with Germanness\". This means that for them, the psychological dilemmas that come with double consciousness is even more profound. For Black Germans in the early 20th century, there was no stable idea or community of blackness for them to identify, or partly, with. They were constantly subject to the white gaze and had no stable line of flight away from white civil society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25080699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25080699", "title": "Edgar Allan Poe bibliography", "text": "Edgar Allan Poe bibliography\n\nThe works of American author Edgar Allan Poe (January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849) include many poems, short stories, and one novel. His fiction spans multiple genres, including horror fiction, adventure, science fiction, and detective fiction, a genre he is credited with inventing. These works are generally considered part of the Dark romanticism movement, a literary reaction to Transcendentalism. Poe's writing reflects his literary theories: he disagreed with didacticism and allegory. Meaning in literature, he said in his criticism, should be an undercurrent just beneath the surface; works whose meanings are too obvious cease to be art. Poe pursued originality in his works, and disliked proverbs. He often included elements of popular pseudosciences such as phrenology and physiognomy. His most recurring themes deal with questions of death, including its physical signs, the effects of decomposition, concerns of premature burial, the reanimation of the dead, and mourning. Though known as a masterly practitioner of Gothic fiction, Poe did not invent the genre; he was following a long-standing popular tradition.\n\nPoe's literary career began in 1827 with the release of 50 copies of \"Tamerlane and Other Poems\" credited only to \"a Bostonian\", a collection of early poems that received virtually no attention. In December 1829, Poe released \"Al Aaraaf, Tamerlane, and Minor Poems\" in Baltimore before delving into short stories for the first time with \"Metzengerstein\" in 1832. His most successful and most widely read prose during his lifetime was \"The Gold-Bug\", which earned him a $100 prize, the most money he received for a single work. One of his most important works, \"The Murders in the Rue Morgue\", was published in 1841 and is today considered the first modern detective story. Poe called it a \"tale of ratiocination\". Poe became a household name with the publication of \"The Raven\" in 1845, though it was not a financial success. The publishing industry at the time was a difficult career choice and much of Poe's work was written using themes specifically catered for mass market tastes.\n\n\n\n\n\nThis list of collections refers only to those printed during Poe's lifetime with his permission. Modern anthologies are not included.\n\nAmerican journals that Edgar Allan Poe was involved with include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3780555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3780555", "title": "Eiserner Mann", "text": "Eiserner Mann\n\nDer Eiserne Mann (The Iron Man) is an old iron pillar partially buried in the ground in the German national forest of Kottenforst-Ville Nature Park, about two kilometers north-east of the village Dünstekoven. It is a roughly rectangular metal bar with about 1.18 m above ground and approximately 1 m below ground. The pillar is currently located at a meeting of trails which were built in the early 18th century through the formerly pathless forest area, but it is believed to have stood in another nearby location before that time.\n\nThe pillar is a unique oddity in Central Europe, and is alleged by some to be an out-of-place artifact. It was first mentioned in a 17th-century document, where it was used as a village boundary marker. There are some old aqueducts in the vicinity along with an ancient stone walkway. \n\nA metallurgical investigation in the 1970s showed that the pillar is made of pig iron. It was poured into an earthen trench, consistent with medieval methods of ironworking.\n\nAfter the long exposure to the weather, the iron man shows signs of weathering but there is remarkably little trace of rust. It is located at 50.70757° N by 6.96105° E at an elevation of approximately 159 m.\n\nThe pillar is marked with a sign reading, in translation:\n"}
{"id": "1253111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1253111", "title": "Fortis and lenis", "text": "Fortis and lenis\n\nIn linguistics, fortis and lenis (; Latin for \"strong\" and \"weak\"), sometimes identified with tense and lax, are pronunciations of consonants with relatively greater and lesser energy. English has fortis consonants, such as the \"p\" in \"pat\", with a corresponding lenis consonant, such as the \"b\" in \"bat\". Fortis and lenis consonants may be distinguished by tenseness or other characteristics, such as voicing, aspiration, glottalization, velarization, length, and length of nearby vowels. Fortis and lenis were coined for languages where the contrast between sounds such as \"p\" and \"b\" does not involve voicing (vibration of the vocal cords).\n\nOriginally, the terms were used to refer to an impressionistic sense of strength differences, though more sophisticated instruments eventually gave the opportunity to search for the acoustic and articulatory signs. For example, tested whether articulatory strength could be detected by measuring the force of the contact between the articulators or of the peak pressure in the mouth. Because such studies initially found little to substantiate the terminology, phoneticians have largely ceased using them, though they are still commonly used as \"phonological labels for specifying a dichotomy when used language-specifically.\" This can be useful when the actual articulatory features underlying the distinction are unknown, under-researched or unimportant.\n\nLater studies have shown that articulatory strength is not completely irrelevant. The articulators in the mouth can move with a greater velocity and/or with higher electromyographic activation levels of the relevant articulatory muscles with fortis consonants than with lenis ones.\n\nGenerally, voiceless stops have greater oral pressure than voiced ones, which could explain this greater articulatory energy. In Ewe, for example, the lips reach closure faster in articulating than in , making the lip closure longer. These differences in oral articulatory energy in consonants of different laryngeal settings is fairly widespread, though the correlation of energy and voicing is not universal. Indeed, a number of languages have been proposed as making strength differences independently of voicing, such as Tabasaran, Archi, Udi, and Aghul.\n\n\"Fortis\" and \"lenis\" have also been used to refer to contrasts of consonant duration in languages like Jawoyn, Ojibwe, Dalabon, Kunwinjku, and Zurich German. The Zapotec languages are also considered to have contrast of length rather than of voicing. For example, in Mixe, lenis consonants are not only pronounced shorter than their fortis counterparts, but they are also prone to voicing in voiced environments, which fortis consonants are not.\n\nThis association with longer duration has prompted some to propose a diachronic link between fortis consonants and gemination. even proposes that gemination is itself a process of fortition in Italian.\n\nIn English, use of the terms \"fortis\" and \"lenis\" is useful to refer to contrasts between consonants that have different phonetic attributes depending on context. The alveolar consonants and , for example:\n\nAs the above table shows, no one feature is adequate to accurately reflect the contrasts in all contexts. Word-initially, the contrast has more to do with aspiration; is aspirated and is an unaspirated voiceless stop. In the syllable coda, however, is instead pronounced with glottalization, unrelease, and a shorter vowel while remains voiceless. In this way, the terms \"fortis\" and \"lenis\" are convenient in discussing English phonology, even if they are phonetically imprecise.\n\nIt is rare for the use of greater \"respiratory\" energy for segments to occur in a language, though some examples do exist, such as Korean, which makes a three way contrast amongst most of its obstruents with voiceless, aspirated, and a third faucalized voiced set that involves both an increase in subglottal pressure as well as greater glottal constriction and tenseness in the walls of the vocal tract. Igbo has also been observed to utilize an increase in subglottal pressure involving its aspirated consonants.\n\nIn southern German dialects, the actual distinction underlying obstruent pairs varies somewhat depending on the dialect, but is often one of length—fortis sounds are pronounced geminated in all positions in a word, even at the end of a word or before other consonants.\n\nMany North Caucasian languages (Northwest and especially Northeast) have a consonantal distinction described as \"strong\" or \"preruptive\" that has concomitant length. Akhvakh and other Northeast Caucasian languages even possess a distinction between strong/long and weak/short ejective consonants: ('soup') vs. ('cock's comb')\n\nFortis stops in Australian Aboriginal languages such as Rembarunga (see Ngalakgan) also involve length, with short consonants having weak contact and intermittent voicing, and long consonants having full closure, a more powerful release burst, and no voicing. It is not clear if strength makes the consonants long, or if during long consonants there is a greater opportunity for full articulation.\n\nArticulatory strength can reinforce other distinctions. Ewe, for example, which contrasts a voiceless bilabial fricative and a voiceless labiodental fricative , pronounces the latter markedly more strongly than in most languages. This helps differentiate what would otherwise be a very subtle distinction.\n\nThe IPA provides no specific means for representation of a fortis–lenis contrast. The extensions to the International Phonetic Alphabet provide a diacritic for strong articulation (e.g. ) and weak articulation (), but this does not cover all of the phonetic differences that have been categorized under fortis and lenis. Americanist phonetic notation uses fortis and lenis .\n\nDifferent ways of transcribing the fortis–lenis contrast have been used. For instance, for the transcription of the Zürich German fortis–lenis contrast – which does not involve either voicedness or aspiration –, notations such as the following ones have appeared in the relevant literature:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183988", "title": "Foss Dyke", "text": "Foss Dyke\n\nThe Foss Dyke, or Fossdyke, connects the River Trent at Torksey to Lincoln, the county town of Lincolnshire, and may be the oldest canal in England that is still in use. It is usually thought to have been built around AD 120 by the Romans, but there is no consensus among authors. It was refurbished in 1121, during the reign of King Henry I, and responsibility for its maintenance was transferred to the city of Lincoln by King James I. Improvements made in 1671 included a navigable sluice or lock at Torksey, and warehousing and wharves were built at Brayford Pool in the centre of Lincoln.\n\nConnection to the River Witham at Brayford was hampered by the small bore and depth of High Bridge, a medieval structure just below the pool. The channel through it was made deeper in 1795, but John Rennie's plans to demolish it in 1803 were not adopted. The canal was leased to several generations of the Ellison family, who profited from the tolls but failed to maintain it. Although cargos of coal and wool moved to the railway, the carriage of grain continued, and the last commercial operation was in 1972. The Brayford Mere Trust have turned Brayford Pool from a rubbish-filled eyesore into an attractive marina, and the Lincolnshire Waterways Partnership are opening a footpath and cycleway from Lincoln to Torksey; the section to Saxilby was officially opened on 26 July 2011.\n\nThe Fossdyke joins the River Trent at Torksey. A branch leaves the main channel, passes under the A156 bridge, and immediately enters Torksey lock, which is the only lock on the canal. It has six sets of gates, three sets facing Lincoln, and three facing the river, which is tidal at this point, and so its level can be higher than the level of the canal. The gates allow the lock to be used at most states of the tide. A steel footbridge crosses the lock near the road, and both the footbridge and the lock are grade II listed structures. The canal runs to the east, and then turns south, passing to the east of Fenton and Kettlethorpe. Soon it is joined by the A57 road, and turns east again. The road runs along the south bank, until Saxilby is reached.\n\nAt Saxilby, the Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway crosses the waterway, to run along the south bank all the way to Lincoln. There was once a swing bridge beyond the railway bridge, which was removed in 1937, although the foundations are still obvious. Access over the canal at this point was reinstated in 1987, when a footbridge was installed. The original bridge was manufactured in 1884, and crossed the Great Northern Railway at Newark-on-Trent for 103 years before it was put to a new use. The A57 crosses to the north bank soon after the railway bridge. The River Till flows south and under the road to join the Fossdyke, after which a new marina has been built at Burton Meadows. Because the construction has breached the flood bank, it is protected by a flood gate. The canal crosses under the A46 road on the outskirts of Lincoln, and then over a drainage ditch, to run alongside the Carholme golf club. The final bridge carries the B1273 Brayford Way over the canal as it enters Brayford Pool, once a busy commercial wharf in the centre of Lincoln, but now a marina with the University on the southern bank. The unnavigable River Witham flows into the bottom end of the pool, and becomes the Witham Navigation when it flows out on its way to Boston.\n\nThe Foss Dyke was long thought to have been constructed by the Romans around 120. Pointers include an inscribed statuette of the god \"Mars\" found in it at Torksey, which is now in the British Museum, but there is a lack of consensus among authors writing on the subject.\n\nThe first record of it comes from Symeon of Durham, whose \"Historia Regium\" notes the following for the year 1121:\nSome take this to mean that the canal did not exist before Henry's construction work. Thus Kevin Leahy writes:\nOthers, though, consider that Henry I merely scoured out an existing structure; Mark Bennett, writing for the East Midlands Archaeological Research Framework says:\nThe canal is about long. It possibly follows an earlier line of the Trent, which emptied into the Wash in prehistoric times. Together with the Car Dyke it formed part an important transport route from Peterborough to York.\n\nIt was reputedly used by the Danes when they invaded England and by the Normans to carry stone to build Lincoln Cathedral in the 11th century. Following King Henry I's work discussed above, the canal deteriorated, until by the 17th century it was virtually impassable. Katherine Swynford, who lived in the area, is credited with having organized a protest to repair it, in 1375. King James I transferred ownership to the Corporation of Lincoln.\n\nIn 1671, during the reign of Charles II, Lincoln obtained an Act which authorised improvements from Boston to the Trent. Work was carried out on the Foss Dyke, but only the first of the Witham, from Brayford Pool to High Bridge, received attention. The work was carried out by Samuel Fortrey, a man with previous experience of draining the fens. He was required to bear some of the cost himself, in exchange for some of the profits. The work was completed in 1672, and included a navigable sluice or lock at Torksey, which had first been proposed by Simon Hill in 1632. Warehouses and wharves were built at Brayford Pool, but by 1717, passage from Torksey was again difficult. Coal traffic averaged 1,357 tons per year, bound for Lincoln, but tolls were insufficient to finance repairs. The city of Lincoln did not have the expertise to manage the waterway, and so leased it to Richard Ellison in 1741, who had experience with the River Don Navigation. He paid £75 per year for a navigation which generated around £100 in toll receipts. He dredged it to provide of depth, and re-opened it in 1744. Two years later, the tolls were £595, and continued to increase. Under his son, the tolls were £2,367 in 1789, while his grandson collected £5,159 in 1811.\n\nNavigation through Lincoln and on to Boston was hampered by the shallow draught available under the medieval High Bridge, just below Brayford Pool. Sir Joseph Banks, when proposing the construction of the Horncastle Canal knew that the problem needed addressing, and William Jessop was commissioned to survey the Witham and the Fossdyke in 1791, with particular reference to the junction between the two. He proposed a bypass to the south of the city, using the Sincil Dyke, or excavating the channel beneath the bridge, although he recognized that this solution was not ideal, due to the narrow width of the bridge hole, and the lack of a towing path through it. However, the city was keen to keep trade within its limits, and improvements to High Bridge, which were completed by 1795, were authorised as part of the Horncastle Canal act of 1792.\nThe Witham Navigation was soon needing repairs, and the commissioners asked John Rennie for advice in 1802. His report, published in 1803, included recommendations to demolish High Bridge so that a waterway wide could be built under a new bridge, and improvements to the Fossdyke costing £12,260. Neither action was followed. The Fossdyke was difficult to maintain, because much of it ran through sand and quicksand. The situation was more complex, because it had been leased to the Ellisons for three generations, and Richard Ellison III was not keen to spend any money on it. Income from tolls would have more than covered repairs, but there was little that could be done. A challenge to the legality of his lease was considered in the 1820s, but was not thought likely to succeed. He died in 1827, and Humphrey Sibthorp, his niece's husband, who was a proprietor on the River Witham, took over responsibility for it. He asked Isambard Brunel to survey it, and although he did so in 1833, no improvements were made.\n\nRailways arrived in Lincoln in 1848. The Wakefield, Lincoln and Boston Railway had negotiated with the proprietors of the Witham and Fossdyke in 1846, to guarantee them an income by leasing the waterways. Richard Ellison IV had agreed a lease for 894 years, at £9,570 per year, based on the average profit for the previous three years plus 5 per cent. The line was built by the Great Northern Railway, who took over the leases already agreed. The Witham was affected more than the Fossdyke, as the line followed its bank from Lincoln to Boston. The Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway (MSLR) passed through Saxilby to Lincoln a little later. Combined figures for the two waterways showed a drop in goods carried of two-thirds between 1848 and 1868. Cargos of coal and wool were the first to transfer to the railways. However, the MSLR, by then part of the Great Central Railway, built a dock and transhipment warehouse at Brayford in 1897. The Fossdyke carried 75,881 tons in 1905, and an average of 69,611 between 1913 and 1917, most of it general goods and agricultural produce. A series of takeovers and mergers resulted in its ownership changing several times, before it was nationalised, and became the responsibility of the British Waterways Board in 1948.\n\nAlthough its date of construction is unknown, the London and North Eastern Railway Company built a small pumping station to the west of Torksey lock. It contained a steam-powered beam engine, which was probably made by Davy Brothers of Sheffield, and drove a double-acting bucket pump. It was situated close to the land drainage pumping station, which pumps into the tidal part of the Fossdyke, draining some of low-lying land to the south of Torksey. Its job was to maintain the water levels in the navigation, but it was demolished in 1936, and no traces of it remain. A new pumping station at a similar location was commissioned in 1974. This forms part of the Trent Witham Ancholme transfer scheme. A pumping station at Short Ferry on Barlings Eau pumps water through an pipeline to Toft Newton reservoir, on the upper reaches of the Ancholme. The water is used to maintain the flow and level of the Ancholme during the summer months and other dry periods. When there is insufficient water in Barlings Eau and the Witham, Torksey pumping station transfers water from the Trent through a short pipeline into Foss Dyke. From there it flows for along the waterway to Brayford Pool and so into the Witham, to supplement the water available for pumping.\n\nUnlike many waterways, the Fossdyke never closed, and continued to carry grain traffic until 1972. However, the demise of general commercial traffic had left Brayford Pool in the centre of Lincoln as a derelict eyesore, full of rubbish and sunken boats. The local Chamber of Commerce sought to address the issue in 1965, and formed Brayford Improvement Committee. Advice was sought from the Inland Waterways Association, and eventually the Brayford Mere Trust was constituted. They removed the wrecks from the pool, and have rebuilt the site, so that it offers facilities for visiting pleasure craft, now the major users of the waterway. A former lift bridge, which crossed the western entrance to the pool, was replaced in August 1996 by a new concrete flyover, as part of the redevelopment of the south bank, which included the opening of the University in the same year. to the west of Lincoln, a new marina has been constructed at Burton Waters, as part of a housing development.\n\nConstruction of a footpath and cycleway beside the canal from Lincoln to Saxilby has been carried out by the Lincolnshire Waterways Partnership, a joint initiative by Lincolnshire County Council, the Environment Agency and British Waterways. For much of its route it runs along the top of the northern floodbank, but drops down to a new crossing of the A57 road and a new bridge across the River Till near Saxilby. The route was officially opened on 26 July 2011. Extending the path to Torksey is a longer term aim.\n\n"}
{"id": "16554074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16554074", "title": "Four corners (law)", "text": "Four corners (law)\n\nFour Corners Rule is the meaning of a written document such as a contract, will, or deed as represented solely by its textual content. This term may also be applicable to other legal instruments.\n\nIn contract interpretation, the Four Corners Rule refers to a common law doctrine dating back to old English courts that requires the court to resolve contractual disputes based on the words contained in the disputed contract. The four corners doctrine is similar to the Parole Evidence Rule, which prohibits a contracting party from introducing evidence separate from the contract that would change fundamentally the intended understanding as written in the contract. However, the Four Corners Doctrine prohibits a party from introducing evidence to interpret an unambiguous term. The doctrine also requires a court to discern what the contracting parties intended by using the whole document; no cherry picking. Most commercial contracts contain a clause entitled either \"Merger\", \"Integration\", or \"Entire Agreement\". In this clause, there would usually be language indicating that the parties' understanding of the other provisions of the contract are contained within the four corners of the same. Many modern contracts have taken it further to state that the entire agreement is contained within the agreement and that the agreement supersedes all prior understandings. \n\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of examples where courts used the Four Corners Doctrine while interpreting the disputed-document:\n"}
{"id": "5726897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5726897", "title": "Gajendragarh", "text": "Gajendragarh\n\nGajendragad\n\nGajendragad (also called Gajendragarh) is a \"town\" and a \"taluk\" place in Gadag District, Karnataka, India. The name \"Gajendragad\" has its own history. This place is known for its hill station and hill strip. Highest populated city after Gadag in the district. It is about 55 kilometers from Gadag, 110 kilometers from Hubballi and 450 kilometers from Bengaluru.\n\nGajendragad (Gajendra-Elephant, gad-fort), is a historical place in the Gadag district. The name Gajendragad is a combination of Elephant and a fort. This is because the city looks like elephant body in the bird view. Local people generally call it as \"Gada\". It is about 55 km from Gadag and is one of the big town in the Gadag District.\n\nGajendragad is known for film shooting because of its even land on its hills. It is a place where several films are shot. Several Kannada films including Veera Madakari, Brundavana, Raate, Jaanu, Bahuparak, Bheema teeradalli, Bharjari, Rakshit Shetty's Avane Shrimannaraya and many more. Telugu movies like Damarugam, Alludu seenu, Brundavanam, Balupu Bharjeri and many more are also shot here.\n\nGajendragad is a pilgrimage destination due to its \"Kalakaleshwara temple\".\n\nIt is famous for the following:\n\n\nHistory of Gajendragad\n\nGajendragad is surrounded by the Historical places associated with Badami Chalukyas and Western Chalukya and the places are Badami, Aihole, Pattadakal, Mahakuta, Banashankari, Sudi, Mahadeva Temple at Itagi and Kudalasangama. Rastrakuta Monuments at Kuknur. Gajendragad Fort was built and renewed by Shivaji.\n\nFounder of the Ghorpade family was Shri Valabhasinh Cholaraj Ghorpade\nand then the descended Bahirjirao (Hindurao) Ghorpade\n\nThe Royal families of Kapsi and Gajendragad owe their origin to Vallabhasinha and the Chiefs of Sondur are descended from the third son of Cholraj.\n\nAfter the 2nd \"Mysore War\", Tippu Sultan had to engage in an armed conflict (during 1786–87) with the Marathas and the Nizam. The war concluded\nwith the treaty of Gajendragad.Mysore was defeated and ceded Badami to the Marathas. \n\nThe fort and Taluka of Gajendragad which was taken by \"Fate Alikhan\" was retaken by Government. Half the province was surrendered to the Nawab (Nizam A. D. 1786–87) according to \"Treaty of Gajendragad\". Remaining was made over to \"Dawalatrao Ghorpade\" (\"Rs, 50,001\" was taken from him).\n\nRelated articles : \n\nThe pilgrim Kalakaleshwara temple, is a huge mountain with the temple carved into it. This is a weekend destination which could be wound up in a day’s time. One can see many windmills lined on the hill opposite the hill on which the temple is located. Besides a beautiful view awaits you after the visit to the temple from the hill.\n\nA little known pilgrim of North Karnataka. Gajendragad is a small town lying amidst hills, in one of which is encapsulated Kalakaleshwara temple of Lord Shiva (known as Dakshina Kashi), who is worshipped in the form of Kalakaleswara. There are some large steps that lead you up to the temple. It is a traditional temple with Udhbhava Lingu. There we can find God Virabhadra temple also in the same premises. But one would definitely be amazed at the story in which the significance of the destination lies. Just outside the temple exit is a small square water reservoir called AtharaGange. It is an evergreen water resource that constantly falls along the roots of Peepal tree into the pond all throughout the year. It is said to be flowing even in the peaks of summer season and has an unknown root.\n\nMore amazing is the story attached to this destination that has taken a few lives too. These were the daring people who wanted to try to learn more about a miracle that happens on the previous night of Ugadi, New Year of Kannadigas. The pandit/pujari of the temple prepares a solution of limestone, and keeps it ready for application along with a brush, inside the temple. The next morning, the jobs done. But the temple is painted on its own and this happens without fail every year. A hookah that is also kept along with it seems to be used when seen the next morning.\n\nLegend has it and so do elderly people that there used to be a bell equivalent to the size of soaked kidney beans that fit into 22 gunny bags. In the 1970s, it so happened that the bell vanished all of a sudden towards the heavens, ringing and sounds of the bell echoing and resonating in into the blue skies. And then there was an epidemic of plague that spread across the place, which people blame was due the bells act of vanishing.\n\nMallikarjuna Temple, Twin Towered Temple, Ishwara in a stone made shelter and Naga Kunda are prime attractions of Sudi.\n\nFamous temple of Bhimambika, about 13 km from Gajendragad\n\nIt is famous for temple of Banashankari, and Annual car festival.\n\n\nMahakuta is the source of an important Badami Chalukya inscription called Mahakuta Pillar inscription.\n\nMahaMaya temple, Navalinga Temples at Kuknur.\n\nAt Kudalasangama the famous rivers Krishna and Malaprabha merge (sangama) here, This place is closely associated with the 12th-century poet and social reformer Basavanna. There is a temple dedicated to Lord Sangameswara, worshipped in the form of a linga. The temple is an ancient monument built in the Chalukya style architecture. This place is well developed as one of the great tourism place.\n\nMinerals & Metals Trading Corporation (MMTC) Limited under the ministry of commerce and industry. MMTC's Gajendragad plant Started in 2007, the plant has delivered electricity power of over 102 million units to Hubli Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) Limited. The plant generate a total capacity of 15 MW of power, with 25 wind energy generators, can each generate 600 KV.\n\nWindmills set up to generate wind energy, are posing a threat to the very existence of rare hyenas and wolves at Gajendragad. Earlier Gajendragad was recognised as a safe haven for highly endangered species like the Indian \"grey wolf\" and striped \"hyenas\", but then came wind farming and windmills with huge noisy fans and human traffic to maintain these machines. It drove away these species from their habitat.\n\n\nGajendragadkars of Satara (A Tradition of Scholarship in Vedanta, Nyaya and Vyakaran)\n\nThe Raghavendra Acharya (Gajendragadkar) family belongs to the Madhav School. Sudhindhra Swami, a latter day head of the Madhav Peeth, is the oldest known member of this family. The seat of the family was the town of Gajendragad. Raghavendra Acharya was a grandson of Sudhindra Swami.\n\nRaghavendra Acharya was a profound scholar in Vedanta, Vyakaran (Grammar), Nyaya (Law), Mimamsa and Alankar. Raghavendra Acharya lived in Gajendragad, Karnatak, South India. His house was in effect a pathashala or school\nfor students. Pratapsimha Emperor of Satara of Maratha Empire sent messenger with royal request that Raghavendra Acharya to shift to Satara with his family to become the Raj Pandit. He accepted the offer of the Emperor. Since the family shifted from Gajendragad to Satara, hence the family name GajendragadKar.\n\nShri R. K. Malode served as Mathematics teacher in SM Bhoomaraddi College. He is retired head-master from the same college now.\n\nPrahlad Balacharya Gajendragadkar was the Chief Justice of India from February 1964 to March 1966.\n\nThis small town was also proudly involved in the freedom struggle. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru & Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel visited Gajendragad. Photos of their visit are displayed in the L C Patted Store.\nThe small village of Rajur nearby was a centre of the freedom fight. Siddamma Patil (of the Revadi family of Gajendragad) was close to the Nehru family and a very close associate of Andanappa Doddameti (in whose house Mahatma Gandhi stayed for a night – in the village of Jakkali.\nAfter independence Gajendragad supported the Indian National Congress. Late Andanappa Kundaragi from Gajendragad became the President of the Dharwad District Congress Committee. He was known by the nickname \"Dajikaka\".\n\nA Kannada Sahitya Sammelana (Literature Meet) was held from the 11th to the 13th of February 2011 at Gajendragad.\n\nGajendragarh is located at . It has an average elevation of 643 metres (2109 feet).\n\n India census, Gajendragarh had a population of 28,227. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Gajendragarh has an average literacy rate of 62%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 74%, and female literacy is 51%. In Gajendragarh, 14% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\n"}
{"id": "53947610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53947610", "title": "Gender mainstreaming in teacher education policy", "text": "Gender mainstreaming in teacher education policy\n\nGender mainstreaming in teacher education policy refers to efforts to examine and change processes of policy formulation and implementation across all areas and at all levels from a gender perspective so as to address and correct existing and emerging disparities between men and women. It is a strategy to change the process of policy design, implementation and evaluation by taking into consideration the gender specific and often diverse needs, priorities, interests and values of differently positioned men and women. In this context, gender mainstreaming is about awareness of the existence of gender disparities and their causes and implications, and ensures that they are addressed at each phase of the policy cycle or policy analyses and revision.\n\nThere are two situations in which Teacher Education Institutes (TEIs) can find themselves. One is that they may not have a policy at all, and the other is that they might have a policy but that the policy may not have addressed gender issues or mainstreamed gender. In the first instance, TEIs need to develop a gender-responsive policy for their institutions, and in the second they need to review their policy from gender perspectives. In this part of the module we will look at mainstreaming gender in the different phases of the policy cycle: Problem Definition, Agenda Setting, Policy Formulation, Policy Legitimation and Policy Evaluation.\n\nProblem definition explains the nature, scope and significance of the problem within the context of the current policy environment (international, regional and national legal and policy commitments). During this stage, a problem is identified and examined, and possible solutions are explored through research and discussion. It requires that the delineation of the policy problem is as clear as possible in order to help identify problems of teacher education, as well as gender issues that are relevant at the national level and that can be addressed by formulating policy in their applicable institutions. Whatever the problem identified, the TEI must be seen from the perspective of gender equality. In order to do this, the first step is to investigate gender disparities in different areas and levels among students, teaching staff and administration. In this regard, some of the following areas are analyzed:\n\nOnce a problem is identified, a decision has to be reached as to whether it requires a policy intervention. If so, efforts will be made to bring the matter and its possible solutions to the attention of relevant staff and decision-makers to make it a policy-requiring issue. Already existing policies, strategies, programmes or offices may address some of the problems. The institute may need to review the policies, programmes or office structures, and also introduce a gender equality perspective to strengthen them further and address the problems more effectively. If there are gender-responsive policies available, TEIs may need to come up with a more concrete implementation plan, while other problems may require a policy initiative. In such a situation, the problem could be presented as a policy agenda to the relevant authority for consideration.\n\nAfter defining the problem, and once the problem is considered as requiring policy intervention, goals are identified in order to address the problem. In the context of TEIs, the goals could range from increasing enrolment, addressing quality, acquiring resources, and mitigating high staff turnover to narrowing gender disparities. Policy goals need to state gender concerns specifically and visibly. Different performance indicators and sex-disaggregated data need to be considered to capture the gender dimensions. The stated goals need to take into consideration the different gender related barriers women and men face to benefit equally and equitably.\n\nPolicy formulation has two basic stages: determining the policy options and selecting the preferred option. This process may involve debate over alternative policy choices, which takes into account both the benefits and costs of each policy option. The policy alternatives are derived from a research process that investigates the problem in an in-depth manner using either primary or secondary sources of data or both. In collecting information all data, all relevant individuals and organizations have to be consulted, and all numerical data have to be disaggregated by sex. This stage may also entail analysis of existing policies. Based on the information gathered, the preferred policy options are presented, which will enable the policy objective to be effectively and efficiently reached.\n\nFor a policy to obtain a legal status, it has to be approved as an official policy document by relevant authorities in the TEI, as well as the ministry or relevant divisions within the ministry, depending on the structures and the practices of that specific country. This is an important step as it gives the policy legitimacy. Once it is approved, a policy also serves as an advocacy instrument, as well as a document that could be used to raise funds.\n\nImplementation refers to the actual practical activities that need to be carried out to realize the policy goals and objectives. A number of critical decisions are made at this stage: decisions about regulations, structures, budget and partnerships, all of which are necessary to implement the policy. Policy implementation requires a commitment. As observed from experience, many countries and organizations have very good policy instruments, but most of the time they remain on paper. After going through the process of policy development, which is very resource intensive, its implementation requires serious consideration. The first inquiry should determine the changes needed to implement the policy.\n\nEvaluation is monitoring and assessing the process and impact of policy implementation. Policy research and analysis are used as strategies to evaluate whether the policy goals were reached, and if there were any unanticipated positive or negative outcomes. The evaluation process also attempts to see the various types of impacts: direct versus indirect, and short term versus long term. The information gathered from the evaluation will be used as inputs in the next policy cycle or process. Policy monitoring and evaluation is usually a challenging step as it requires consistent follow up, information collection, and efforts to compare policy goals with the outcome of activities carried out to implement the policy. The policy goals serve as a framework for any instrument that is designed to collect and compile information for the evaluation. The instruments that are designed should ensure that gender is included as a category of analysis and that issues concerning both men and women are included in the questions. Specific women's issues, as identified in the policy problem, should be covered, and during the data collection process both men and women should be included as sources of data. In the context of TEIs the data to be gathered on enrolment, performance and achievement, in-service training, promotion, leadership and administration are to be disaggregated by sex.\n\n"}
{"id": "39821192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39821192", "title": "Glenn Foard", "text": "Glenn Foard\n\nDr Glenn R. Foard (born c.1953) is an English landscape archaeologist, best known for discovering the location of the final phases of the Battle of Bosworth Field (1485). He is Reader in Battlefield Archaeology at the University of Huddersfield.\n\nFoard obtained his first degree from University College, London, in 1974, and went on to take an MA at the Institute of Archaeology. He later obtained a PhD in battlefield archaeology from the University of East Anglia (2008).\n\nFoard is known for his work on major projects on behalf of the Battlefields Trust, English Heritage, Historic Scotland and \"Time Team\". While working for the Battlefields Trust, he led archaeological surveys of the sites of the Battle of Edgehill and the Battle of Bosworth. Foard was appointed by Leicestershire County Council in 2005, in an exercise supported by the Heritage Lottery Fund, to investigate the possible sites of the battle and try to establish its exact location.\n\nIn 2009, Foard and his team discovered artefacts to support his theory that the site where the Bosworth Visitor Centre is currently located is several miles from the actual spot where the battle was fought. These included a silver-gilt badge in the shape of a boar, the emblem of King Richard III of England, who was killed in the battle. Richard Holmes called it \"certainly the most important discovery about Bosworth in my lifetime\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44355894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44355894", "title": "Grounded Vindaloop", "text": "Grounded Vindaloop\n\n\"Grounded Vindaloop\" is the seventh episode in the eighteenth season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 254th episode overall, it was written and directed by series co-creator and co-star Trey Parker. The episode premiered on Comedy Central in the United States on November 12, 2014. The episode lampoons virtual reality headsets including the Oculus Rift using various science-fiction movie references, and customer service call centers.\n\nIn school, Butters walks around wearing goggles and headphones, believing he is in a virtual reality (VR) setting of his school, when actually Cartman is playing a joke on him and communicating with him via a walkie-talkie. Butters becomes so convinced that he is in a VR setting that he goes home and punches his father Stephen in the genitals as payback for being grounded, steals a car in the style of \"Grand Theft Auto\", and tries to assault a prostitute but gets stabbed in the process. Butters wakes up in a hospital without his fake VR equipment. Cartman shows up, dressed similarly to Morpheus from \"The Matrix\" and, using dialog similar to \"Total Recall\" and magic illusions, convinces Butters that he is still trapped in the VR world since Butters took off the equipment outside of Cartman's room, which was the designated access point. The next day, Cartman receives a phone call from an Indian call center employee calling himself Steve, from Oculus Rift's technical support, who tells him that he is actually the one trapped in a VR state. Cartman's mother Liane, walks into Cartman's room and finds him in a catatonic state, hooked up to an Oculus Rift. Though she suggests that he has spent too much time with the device, she leaves his room after putting a meal on his desk.\n\nButters gets grounded by his father. Cartman confronts Butters about the call from Oculus Rift and threatens him by saying that whatever happens in VR happens in real life. Kenny takes Kyle and Stan to Cartman's house, where Cartman is still hooked up to the Oculus Rift. Kyle calls customer support and gets Steve again, who tells Kyle that they are doing a \"total recall\" of all the headsets, due to problems being experienced by them. Kyle and Stan think that this is a prank, but Steve says that one of them will have to put on a headset and attempt to guide Cartman to an access point. Kyle does so, but Cartman tells Kyle that it is actually Kyle trapped in the VR world and that Cartman was sent to save Kyle. Kyle calls the Best Buy store to see who actually purchased the device, but he is transferred to customer service, getting Steve again. Cartman and Kyle are both completely confused.\n\nStephen and Linda discuss Butters being grounded, and Stephen cannot remember why Butters was grounded in the first place. Cartman and Kyle meet with Stan, who is on the phone with Steve, and Kenny, who is unconscious and hooked up to an Oculus Rift. Stan tells Cartman and Kyle that what they are doing is all reality, while Cartman claims that he is a computer program, so one of the others must still be trapped in the VR world. Steve tells Stan that Butters was the first one to call customer service, then Steve calls customer service himself, getting another version of himself on the other end. Steve tells Steve that the call to customer service from within the VR setting has caused a feedback loop, which he names a customer service Vindaloop (a portmanteau of Vindaloo and loop). Kyle, Stan, and Cartman go to Butters, but Stephen catches the gang in the room and is upset since Butters is still grounded. Steve is still on the phone with Stan and tells him that the paradox is due to a rule that customer service cannot be contacted from within VR. Steve tells Stan that the crucial question he must answer to resolve the paradox is the one that he has been asking him all along: \"Have I answered your questions and provided good customer service?\" When Stan finally answers yes, Butters, Stephen, Kyle, and Cartman all disappear. Stan realizes he has been the one in the VR setting, and heads back to an access point. Stephen realizes Butters is not grounded any more and sends him outside to play. As Stan takes off the Oculus Rift, the scene cuts to a live action shot of Kyle, Stan, Cartman, and Kenny, played by actors, at a computer, as Stan praises the Oculus Rift, despite its poor graphics. Shortly afterwards, an over-excited Butters enters the room, hopping up and down, elated that he's not grounded anymore.\n\nOn the DVD audio commentary for \"Grounded Vindaloop\", Trey Parker and Matt Stone discuss how the episode started: a drawing of Butters in the fake virtual reality headset that Cartman would use to mess with him. Parker said \"It just seemed like such a natural way for Cartman to fuck with Butters by putting something like this on his head and telling him that he was in virtual reality when he really wasn't.\" One reason they stuck with it was because this idea of Cartman fooling Butters for his own entertainment had worked so well in past episodes, citing season seven's \"Casa Bonita\" as a good example.\n\nBefore actually starting work on the episode, Parker and Stone felt that the episode would be \"so fuckin' fun\" to write because as the episode unfolds, the viewers would be constantly getting confused as to which reality is real and which ones are the simulations. However, when working on the episode, particularly after the first act, Parker and Stone even became confused as to which world is the real world. They said to themselves beforehand that it will work, they'll figure it out later, but when that later came, it was more difficult to put it all together than expected.\n\nAnother influence of the episode was the fact that Parker and Stone had been discussing doing something \"South Park\" related with virtual reality tools. They had also seen people experimenting with \"South Park\" virtual reality games.\n\nThe episode received mostly positive reviews from critics. The episode received a C+ rating from \"The A.V. Club\"s Eric Thurm, who commented that he had \"no idea what actually 'happened' in 'Grounded Vindaloop'.\" Max Nicholson from IGN gave the episode a 8.0 out of 10, calling it \"easily one of the smartest episodes of Season 18 thus far.\" Chris Longo from Den of Geek gave the episode 4.5 out of 5 stars and claimed that \"an episode like this goes a long way to show that no matter the misstep—like the previous two mediocre episodes—Matt and Trey can get back to what they've done best for 18 seasons.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43946012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43946012", "title": "Gürcütepe", "text": "Gürcütepe\n\nGürcütepe is a Neolithic site on the southeastern outskirts of Şanlıurfa in Turkey, consisting of four very shallow tells along Sirrin Stream that flows from Şanlıurfa. All four hills are now covered by modern buildings, so they are no longer recognizable. In the late 1990s a German archaeological team under the direction of Klaus Schmidt carried out soundings on all four hills and made extensive excavations on the second hill seen from the east.\n\nOriginally it was assumed that the four hills were settled in a specific time sequence, that one of these settlement phases would coincide with the nearby Gobekli Tepe. However, the excavations have indicated that all four hills were settled during the PPNB period; the easternmost hill is from the later PPNC period. \n\nGürcütepe joins a group of Neolithic localities in Turkey, all rammed-earth buildings possessing space subdivisions next to larger community buildings. The small finds correspond to what we previously knew already. Overall, the Gürcütepe gives the impression of a rural settlement which was significantly younger than the famous Göbekli Tepe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39924749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39924749", "title": "Harry Willetts", "text": "Harry Willetts\n\nHarry Taylor Willetts (1922 – 7 April 2005) was an English scholar of Russian. A professor of Russian history at Oxford University, he was director of the Russian and East European Centre at St Antony's College, Oxford, where his colleagues included the noted Russian scholars Max Hayward, Harry Shukman and William Deakin. A prolific translator of Russian literature, he is best known for his translations of the works of the Nobel Prize winner Alexander Solzhenitsyn. As a translator, he is often credited as H.T. Willetts.\n\nWilletts studied at The Queen's College, Oxford from 1940 to 1947. He then joined the Foreign Office before joining St Antony's College in 1960.\n\nIn 1957 Willetts married his Polish Jewish wife Halina Szenbaum in London.\n\nWilletts was preceded in death by his wife Halina. Their son Sam Willetts is a poet.\n"}
{"id": "2347543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347543", "title": "Hermann Gollancz", "text": "Hermann Gollancz\n\nSir Hermann Gollancz (1852 – 15 October 1930) was a British rabbi and Hebrew scholar. Gollancz was the first Jew to earn a doctor of literature degree from London University and the first holder of the degree to be ordained as a rabbi. He was the first British rabbi to be granted a knighthood, when he was knighted in 1923.\n\nGollancz was born in Bremen, Germany, the son of Rabbi Samuel Marcus Gollancz, who led the Hambro Synagogue. He earned his degree at University College London and started preaching in 1876. As there was no rabbinical training program in England at the time, he went back to Eastern Europe and received his rabbinic ordination in 1897 from the chief rabbis of Galicia, insisting thereafter that he be called \"Rabbi\" rather than \"Reverend\" and be called to the Torah with the honorific \"HaRav\". Gollancz served from 1892 to 1923 as rabbi of the Bayswater Synagogue and was a Professor of Hebrew at University College London from June 1902 to 1924, after which he served as a professor emeritus.\n\nHe produced a translation of the Hebrew Scriptures \"for Jewish families, which adhered 'as closely as possible to the excellent Anglican version of the 17th century' (King James Version)\" He also translated from Hebrew and Aramaic the Targum to the Song of Songs. His autobiography is titled \"Personalia\", published in 1928.\n\nHe was later named minister emeritus of the United Synagogue and served as president of the Jewish Historical Society of England in 1905 and 1906. In the 1923 King's Birthday Honours, King George V conferred a knighthood upon him \"in recognition of his contributions to learning\", making him the first rabbi to receive a knighthood. He received the accolade from the king at Buckingham Palace on 25 July 1923. His service to the Jewish community included the creation of numerous synagogues to serve workers at industrial plants, visiting the sick and assisting the poor. He was an advocate for public libraries and helped establish the Mocatta Library at University College, to which he donated thousands of volumes when he concluded his 21 years as Goldschmid Professor of Hebrew.\n\nGollancz died in London, aged 78, on 15 October 1930. He was the elder brother of Shakespearean and English literature scholar Sir Israel Gollancz and the uncle of publisher Victor Gollancz. His 35-year-old son Leonard committed suicide jumping out of a hotel window in Torquay in a \"moment of sudden impulse caused by nervous strain\", after which Lady Gollancz suffered a stroke. His son, oldest sister and wife all died within a ten-day span in 1929 and his brother died four months before he did.\n\nHe was buried at the Willesden Jewish Cemetery on 19 October, and the funeral was followed later in the day by a memorial service at the Bayswater Synagogue where he had ministered for so many years.\n"}
{"id": "9650166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9650166", "title": "Historic house museum", "text": "Historic house museum\n\nA historic house museum is a house that has been transformed into a museum. Historic furnishings may be displayed in a way that reflects their original placement and usage in a home. Historic house museums are held to a variety of standards, including those of the International Council of Museums.\n\nThe International Council of Museums defines a museum as: \"A museum as a non profit-making, permanent institution in the service of society and of its development, open to the public, which acquires, conserves, researches, communicates and exhibits, for purpose of study, education and enjoyment, the tangible and intangible evidence of people and their environment.\" Houses are transformed into museums for a number of different reasons. For example, the homes of famous writers are frequently turned into writer's home museums to support literary tourism.\n\nAlso known as a ‘memory museum’, which is a term used to suggest that historic house museum contains a collection of the traces of memory of the people who once lived there. It is often made up of the inhabitants’ belongings and objects – this approach is mostly concerned with authenticity. Some museums are organised around the person who lived there or the social role the house had. Other historic house museums may be partially or completely reconstructed in order to tell the story of a particular area, social-class or historical period. The ‘narrative’ of the people who lived there guides this approach, and dictates the manner in which it is completed. In each kind of museum visitors learn about the previous inhabitants through an explanation and exploration of Social History.\n\nThe idea of a historic house museum derives from a branch of history called Social History that is solely based on people and their way of living. It became very popular in the mid-twentieth century among scholars who were interested in the history of people, as opposed to political and economical issues. Social history remains an influential branch of history. Philip J. Ethington is a Professor of history and political science, further adds to social history and its relationship to locations by saying –\n\nFollowing this historical movement, the concept of ‘Open Air Museums’ became prominent. These particular types of museums had interpreters in costume re-enact the lives of communities in earlier eras, which would then be performed to modern audiences. They often occupied large wooden architecture buildings or outdoor sites and landscapes, that were true to the era adding to authenticity.\n\nCollective memory is sometimes used in the resurrection of historic house museums; however, not all historic house museums use this approach. The notion of Collective Memory originated from philosopher and sociologist Maurice Halbwachs, in ‘La memoire collective’ (‘On Collective Memory’, 1950). This extended thesis examines the role of people and place, and how collective memory is not only associated with the individual but is a shared experience. It also focused on the way individual memory is influenced by social structures, as a way of continuing socialisation by producing memory as collective experience.\n\nAn example of a site that utilizes collective memory is the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park in Japan. It was restored and is based on the dialectics of memory, however it also has the inclusion of joyous festivals to mask the turmoil. The ‘Hiroshima Traces’ (1999) text takes a look the importance of collective memory and how it is embedded in culture and place. Thus, collective memory does not only reside in a house or building, but it also resonates in outdoor space – particularly when a monumental event has occurred, such as war.\n\nProblematic creation of collective memory occurs within historic house museums when the narrative of non-family members is dismissed, ignored, or completely rejected. Within the Southern United States, Plantation Museums (meaning the homes of former enslavers) constitute a significant portion of the museum community and contribute to the racialized collective memory of the United States. Because museums are responsible for “the building of identity, cultural memory and community,” neglecting to include the narrative of ALL people who lived there is dangerous. While some Plantation museum narratives have changed following an outcry from the public and the academy, “plantation museums reflect, create, and contribute to racialized ways of understanding and organizing the world,” by eliminating and limiting the narrative of the enslaved inhabitants.\n\nA degree of authenticity is also to be considered in the restoration and creation of a historic house museum. The space must be authentic in terms of truly replicating and representing the way it once stood in its original form and appear to be untouched and left in time. There are three steps when declaring if a space is authentic:\n\n\nThere are a number of Organizations around the world that dedicate themselves to the preservation, restoration, resurrection or promotion of historic house museums. They include:\n\n"}
{"id": "51263748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51263748", "title": "Indian Treasure Trove Act, 1878", "text": "Indian Treasure Trove Act, 1878\n\nIndian Treasure Trove Act, 1878. (ACT NO. VI OF 1878. 1. ) (12 February 1878). An Act to amend the law relating to treasures found in India.\n\nIt defines treasure specifically as \"anything of any value hidden in the soil\" and worth as little as 10 rupees (16 cents; 10 pence).\nThe finder of such treasure, according to this law, needs to inform the most senior local official of the \"nature and amount or approximate value of such treasure and the place where it was found\". Also, if the finder fails to hand over the booty to the government, the \"share of such treasure ... shall vest in Her Majesty\", the Queen of England. It needs to be amended as its irrelevant now as the British left India in 1947 after India gained independence.\n\nThe Law is not user friendly and encouraging to Hobby Metal detector enthusiasts or to professional Treasure hunters as practically all finds belong to the local Government however reforms in the law are being sought.\n\nAll major metal detecting, excavations and treasure hunts per se are carried out by India's nodal agency setup for the purpose, the Archaeological Survey of India.\n\n"}
{"id": "52979687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52979687", "title": "Leeds University Library's Cookery Collection", "text": "Leeds University Library's Cookery Collection\n\nLeeds University Library's Cookery Collection is one of the five Designated collections held by the Brotherton Library at University of Leeds. It comprises an extensive collection of international books, manuscripts and archives relating to food, cooking and culinary culture. \n\nThe collection began with a donation in 1939 to the Library of 1,500 books and a selection of manuscripts. The collection has grown since then and has been supplemented with further donations over time. It now consists of more than 8,000 printed cookery books and 75 manuscripts, spanning the period of 2500 BC to present day, with the majority of the works being from the early 16th – 20th century.\n\nIn addition to recipes and cookery books, the collection includes texts about food production, household management, brewery, gardening and the medicinal uses of food. \n\nNumerous food historians have used the Cookery Collection to inform their research and publications. The Cookery Collection is located in Special Collections in the Brotherton Library, University of Leeds.\n\nThe Cookery Collection was awarded Designation status in 2005 by the Museums, Libraries and Archives Council. The Designation Scheme is a mark of distinction which recognises collections in non-national institutions of outstanding national and international importance for users. The scheme is now administered by Arts Council England. \n\nThe Cookery Collection is one of five Designated collections held by Special Collections at Leeds University Library. It is the only library to hold as many as 5 Designated collections.\n\nThe Cookery Collection encompasses a series of collections from different origins which have been acquired by the Brotherton Library over time and are now grouped together by the subject of cookery as a single collection group.\n\nThe Cookery Collection at Special Collections in the Brotherton Library began in 1939 when Blanche Legat Leigh, the Lady Mayoress of Leeds, donated her 1,500 printed books and some manuscript volumes to the Library. The majority of these books were British, French and Italian cookery books dating from the early 16th century to 1930. An item of note from Leigh’s collection is a first edition of Mrs Beeton’s \"\"Book of Household Management\"\" with a letter inserted in it written to Leigh from Mrs Beeton’s son, Sir Mayson Beeton. Leigh’s donation included her correspondence with book owners, now held in Special Collections’ archives.\n\nIn 1954 some of the books from Blanche Leigh’s collection were displayed in an exhibition titled \"Cookery Books 1500–1954\" held in Times Bookshop in London. John F Preston was also displaying his collection at this exhibition and consequently became interested in Leeds University Library’s collection. In 1962 he presented his collection to the Library of over 600 English cookery books from 1584–1861.\n\nIn the 1980s the Camden Public Library in London was running low on adequate space to hold their collection of books on food and drink. Their cookery books were advertised and as a result were rehomed in the Brotherton Library. The books spanned 1900–1975 and filled a period that was until then lacking in the Library’s Cookery Collection.\n\nThe Cookery Collection was recognised as an outstanding collection and accredited Designation status in 2005. Since then, the collection has continued to grow with more donations. \n\nA few years after the death in 2006 of Michael Bateman, the food writer and journalist, Leeds University Library received his collection of international cookery books in 2011. Special Collections also holds an archive of his papers from his career as a food writer.\n\nSome material which was already held by the Brotherton Library and related to cookery has since been associated with the Cookery Collection in the interest of strengthening the subject. For example, Alfred Chaston Chapman’s collection of books about beer and brewery was donated to Leeds University Library in 1939.\n\nThe Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library is still being added to and augmented with new acquisitions. Leeds University Library is currently collecting manuscripts about cookery or medicinal remedies with a regional focus. More generally, Leeds University Library aims to collect titles which are not already represented in the Cookery Collection. \n\nThe Cookery Collection has been catalogued in two distinct groups: Cookery Manuscripts and Cookery Printed Books. The Cookery Printed Books collection has been split into several series and sub-collections. These include Cookery A: British books, Cookery B: French books, Cookery C: Chinese books, Cookery D: books from other cultures. Later donations, such as from Michael Bateman and Camden Library, are also grouped in separate series. The following items are some of the most notable pieces in the Cookery Collection. The headings indicate which sub-collection or series each item is catalogued under. \n\nIn Blanche Leigh’s original 1939 donation to Leeds University Library was a Babylonian clay tablet dating approximately 2500 BC. This Middle Eastern tablet was once used a receipt for barley with ancient cuneiform script marks. It is on permanent display in the Treasures of the Brotherton Gallery.\n\nCookery A consists of British printed cookery books. Among the major works held are four copies of Hannah Woolley’s \"The Queen-Like Closet\". The earliest edition is from 1672. Woolley was one of the first women in England to have earned a living from writing and selling books. There are two copies of \"Pomona: or the Fruit Garden Illustrated\" (1729) written by the English garden designer, Batty Langley; the book is a gardener's manual for growing, picking and preserving fruits, as well as pruning and caring for plants. Charles Carter's \"The Complete Practical Cook\" : \"or, a new system of the whole art and mystery of cookery\" (1730) is an illustrated recipe book. It contains copperplate engravings showing how to set and arrange a table for various courses in an 18th-century dinner. Charles Carter cooked for nobility and specialised in French baroque cuisine.\n\nThe Cookery Collection holds several different editions of \"The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy\" by Hannah Glasse, first published in 1747. This book was a best seller for more than one hundred years and was written to help instruct servants in the preparing of meals. In the collection there are also four copies of \"The Forme of Cury\", a compilation from about 1390 of medieval recipes written by the cooks of Richard II and then edited and published by Samuel Pegge in 1780. It is one of the oldest known English cookery manuscripts.\n\nIn the Cookery Collection there are multiple copies of one of the earliest health and safety conscious food books, Friedrich Christian Accum’s \"A Treatise on Adulterations of Food and Culinary Poisons\" (1822). The text provides instructions about how to identify dangerous additives in common foods and raises awareness about the dishonest practices of food sellers who use adulterated food to increase sales.\n\nEliza Acton’s \"Modern Cookery, in all its Branches\": \"Reduced to a System of Easy Practice, for the use of Private Families\" was first published in 1845 and a number of editions are in the Cookery Collection at Leeds. Acton was extremely influential because she was the first cookery book writer to list the ingredients needed in a recipe and to note how long a dish takes to cook - an innovation which has become a standard feature of modern recipes.\n\nThe Cookery Collection is home to seven copies of the Victorian best seller, Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management; \"Comprising Information for the Mistress\", edited by Mrs Beeton and first published in 1861. The book is a collection of recipes and advice for women about conducting their housekeeping duties. It was an enormous commercial success and sold 2 million copies by 1868.\n\nThe Cookery D collection contains a large number of printed cookery books from Italy as well as a number other countries. For example, \"Opera di Bartolomeo Scappi\" (1570) is an illustrated Italian cook book with recipes and images of kitchen utensils. The author is Bartolomeo Scappi, renowned renaissance chef, who cooked for Pope Pius IV and Pope Pius V in the Vatican kitchen.\n\nCookery D also contains the one incunabulum in the Cookery Collection, which the Library received from Blanche Leigh's donation. \"Regimen sanitatis Salernitanum\" is a poem which offers the reader a health regime and advice about keeping a good diet. For example, it recommends not eating too much. The exact date of the copy in the Cookery Collection is unknown but it is thought to be post 1500 and is cited in The British Library's Incunabula Short Title Catalogue. The printer Bernardino dei Vitali was active from 1494 to 1539.\n\nAmong Camden Public Library's donation of 20th century cookery books to Leeds University Library were many works by the influential cookery writer, Elizabeth David. In her first cook book, \"A Book of Mediterranean Food\" (1950), she reintroduced more exotic ingredients – such as figs, garlic and olive oil – that had been absent from British cooking during the war.\n\nAlfred Chaston Chapman was a chemist with a specialist interest in fermentation and brewing. He was president of the Institute of Brewing and Distilling from 1911 to 1913. In 1939 his widow donated to Leeds University Library his collection of books which cover the history of brewing, winemaking, the legality of alcohol and drinking in society. Some titles in his collection include: \"The Anatomy of Drunkenness\" (1840), \"The History and Science of Drunkenness\" (1883) and \"Oxford Night Caps: Being a Collection of Receipts for Making Various Beverages Used in the University\" (1835).\n\nIndividual manuscript volumes in the Cookery Collection have been grouped in the archive collection, Cookery Manuscripts. There are 75 items spanning the period 1561–2000 and covering the subjects of cookery, household management and medicinal remedies. Some of these manuscripts were part of Blanche Leigh and John Preston’s original donations to Leeds University Library but there are also more recent acquisitions.\n\nThe Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library has proved to be an insightful research resource for scholars. \n\nThe Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library has informed an array of publications.\nAnne Wilson was a member of staff at the Brotherton Library and catalogued the Preston donation to the Leeds University Library Cookery Collection in 1964. This inspired her interest in food history. She went on to found the Leeds Symposium on Food History in 1986. Thus the Brotherton Library’s Cookery Collection was integral to the establishment of the Symposium. The Leeds Symposium has held annual meetings for the discussion of food history and the presentation of papers since 1986.\nAnne Wilson wrote \"Food and Drink in Britain\" (1973) which draws on the Cookery Collection's early cook books.\nShe wrote \"The Book of Marmalade\" which was published in 1985. In it, she cites the Cookery Collection:\n\"Most of the older recipe books consulted are among those in the Blanche Leigh and John F Preston collections of early cookery books in the Brotherton Library at the University of Leeds.\"\nAnne Wilson edited \"Luncheon, Nuncheon and Other Meals: Eating with the Victorians\" (1994) and \"The Country Kitchen Garden 1600–1950\" (1998). Both of these books mention the Brotherton Library’s Cookery Collection in their acknowledgements.\n\nEileen White is a food historian specialising in domestic English cookery in the 15th and 16th centuries.\nWhite edited and contributed to \"The English Cookery Book: Historical Essays\", based on papers from the 16th Leeds Symposium on Food History held in March 2001. The book celebrates the Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library and pays tribute to its value for researchers. All the illustrations in the book are taken from the Brotherton Library’s collection.\nWhite also edited \"Feeding a City: York\" (2000) and \"The English Kitchen: Historical Essays\" (2007), which also acknowledge the Brotherton Library’s Cookery Collection.\nIn 2003 White wrote \"Soup\" in which she acknowledges \"The collection of cookery books in the Brotherton Library at Leeds University has given me access to a wide range of original sources.\"\n\nPeter Brears, Lynette Hunter and Jennifer Stead are other food historians who have consulted the Cookery Collection at Leeds University Library and contributed essays to the Leeds Symposium on Food History publications. \n\"Cecilia Leong-Salobir\" cites \"The Cookery Collection, Leeds University Library\" as source in the acknowledgments for her book, \"The Food Culture in Colonial Asia: A Taste of Empire,\" Routledge, 2011.\n\n\nA guide to the Cookery Collection is available on the Leeds University Library website. This provides an overview to the collection, its history and its uses. The Cookery Collection has been fully catalogued online. In the Library catalogue the contents and hierarchy of the Cookery Collection can be viewed, as can descriptions of individual items. \nA selection of pieces in the Cookery Collection have been photographed and digitised.\nResearchers can consult the Cookery Collection in person by visiting the reading room in Special Collections at the Brotherton Library, University of Leeds.\n\n"}
{"id": "28373229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28373229", "title": "Los Angeles Review of Books", "text": "Los Angeles Review of Books\n\nThe Los Angeles Review of Books (LARB) is a literary review journal covering the national and international book scenes. A preview version launched on Tumblr in April 2011, and the official website followed one year later in April 2012. A print edition premiered in May 2013. Founded by Tom Lutz, Chair of the Creative Writing Department at the University of California, Riverside, the \"Review\" seeks to redress the decline in Sunday book supplements by creating an online “encyclopedia of contemporary literary discussion.”\n\nThe \"LARB\" features reviews of new fiction, poetry, and nonfiction; original reviews of classic texts; essays on contemporary art, politics, and culture; and literary news from abroad, including Mexico City, London, and St. Petersburg.\n\nThe site also proposes looking seriously at detective fiction, thrillers, comics, graphic novels, and other writing “often dismissed as genre fiction,” and printing reviews of books published by university presses. Of these plans Lutz has said, “What's considered worthy of study in the literary world has shifted radically over the past 50 years, and it reflects the natural evolution of academic thought, which is constantly raising questions about what matters.”\n\nThe site also features input from over 200 contributing editors, including Reza Aslan, Aimee Bender, T. C. Boyle, Antonio Damasio, Jonathan Kirsch, Chris Kraus, Jonathan Lethem, Jeffrey Eugenides, Mike Davis, Jane Smiley, David Shields, Carolyn See, Barbara Ehrenreich, Greil Marcus, Jaron Lanier and Jerry Stahl.\n\nIn addition to Lutz, the current editorial staff includes Boris Dralyuk (Executive Editor) and Medaya Ocher (Managing Editor). Section editors include Merve Emre (Humanities), Evan Kindley (Humanities), Rob Latham, Robin Coste Lewis, Janice Rhoshalle Littlejohn, Lisa Teasley (Fiction), Ellie Duke (blog), Laurie Winer, Kate Wolf, Sarah Mesle, Jonathan Alexander (professor) (Young Adult Fiction), Callie Siskell (Poetry), Feliz Luiz Molina (Poetry), Stefanie Sobelle (Fiction), Michele Pridmore-Brown (Science), Anna Shechtman (Film), Michelle Chihara (Economics and Finance), Eric Newman (Gender and Sexuality), Robert Zaretsky (History), Brad Evans (History of Violence), Lee Konstantinou (Humanities), Don Franzen (Law), Sarah Fuss Kessler (Memoir and Essay), Orly Minazad (Memoir and Essay), Steph Cha (Noir), Arne De Boever (Philosophy and Theory), Costica Bradatan (Religion and Comparative Studies), Jeffrey Wasserstrom (China), Andrew Hoberek (Comics/Graphic Novel)s, and Tom Zoellner (Politics).\n\n"}
{"id": "48107002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48107002", "title": "Lower Dover", "text": "Lower Dover\n\nLower Dover is a Maya archaeological site in the Belize River Valley. It is located on the grounds of the Lower Dover Field Station & Jungle Lodge, in Unitedville, Cayo District, Belize. The site is bordered by the Belize River to the north, Upper Barton Creek to the west, Lower Barton Creek to the east, and the Western Highway to the south. Lower Dover is one of several Maya archaeological sites in the area; it is across the Belize River from (and south of) Barton Ramie, 3 kilometers west of Blackman Eddy, and 6 kilometers east of Baking Pot.\nThe site of Lower Dover consists of a civic ceremonial center that was occupied in the latter part of the Late Classic, abandoned during the Terminal Classic, and partially reoccupied in the Early Postclassic; and a settlement area to the south that was occupied as early as the Middle Preclassic. Based on its location and the similarity of its architecture to that of the better-understood Maya archaeological site of Cahal Pech, it has been speculated that Lower Dover’s civic ceremonial center was an administrative seat for both the Lower Dover and Barton Ramie settlement areas, and a replacement in that role for Blackman Eddy, which was abandoned in the Late Classic. However, nothing is known for certain about the political status of Lower Dover, or about its relation to other sites. Much of the site remains unexcavated, and no dated or inscribed monuments have been discovered.\n\nThe site of Lower Dover was discovered by William and Madeline Reynolds, owners of the land and proprietors of the Lower Dover Field Station & Jungle Lodge, and brought to the attention of the Institute of Archaeology, National Institute of Culture and History (Belize), in 2009. The civic ceremonial center was first surveyed in 2009, and excavations have taken place there every year since 2010. The southern settlement area was first surveyed in 2013, and excavations have taken place there every year since 2014. All archaeological work at the site has been under the aegis of the Belize Valley Archaeological Reconnaissance Project (BVAR) and the direction of Dr. Jaime Awe, and excavations have been conducted by Rafael Guerra every year since 2011. In 2013, the entire site was surveyed via LiDAR ground-penetrating radar, as part of the West-Central Belize LiDAR Survey.\n\nPottery types that have been identified at Lower Dover include Ahk’utu Molded-Carved, Alexander’s Unslipped, Augustine Red, Belize Red, Cayo Unslipped, Daylight Orange, Dos Arroyos Orange-Polychrome, Garbutt Creek Red, Miseria Appliqued, Mountain Pine Red, Paxcaman Red, Pedregal Modeled, Platon Punctated, Roaring Creek, Savanna Orange, and Tutu Camp Striated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22148292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22148292", "title": "Lyres of Ur", "text": "Lyres of Ur\n\nThe Lyres of Ur or Harps of Ur are considered to be the world's oldest surviving stringed instruments. In 1929, archaeologists led by Leonard Woolley discovered the instruments when excavating the Royal Cemetery of Ur between from 1922 and 1934. They discovered pieces of three lyres and one harp in Ur, located in what was Ancient Mesopotamia and is contemporary Iraq. They are over 4,500 years old, from ancient Mesopotamia during the Early Dynastic III Period (2550–2450 BC). The decorations on the lyres are fine examples of the court art of Mesopotamia of the period.\n\nLeonard Woolley, a British archaeologist, discovered the lyres amongst the bodies of ten women in the Royal cemetery at Ur. One body was even said to be laying against the lyre with her skeletal hand placed where the strings would have been. Upon this discovery, Woolley was quick to pour in a liquid plaster to recover the delicate form of the wooden frame. The wood of the lyres was decayed but since some were covered in nonperishable materials, like gold and silver, they were able to be recovered. Strictly speaking, three lyres and one harp were discovered, but all are often called lyres. The instrument remains were restored and distributed between the museums that took part in the digs.\n\nA lyre is a musical instrument that is stringed and has a role projecting from the body. There are two types of lyres: box and bowl. Like their names suggest the box lyres have a boxlike body and the bowl lyres have a round body with a curved back. The Lyres of Ur are box lyres. They were played in an upright position with the strings plucked with both hands.\n\nBecause of how they were discovered it is believed that the lyres were used in burial ceremonies in accompaniment to songs. Each lyre has 11 strings to play on that would produce a buzzing noise that repeated throughout the song. The musician playing the instrument would repeat the pattern displayed on the lyre.\n\nThe \"Golden Lyre of Ur\" or \"Bull's Lyre\" is the finest lyre, and was given to the National Museum of Iraq in Baghdad. Its reconstructed wooden body was damaged due to flooding during the second Iraqi War; a replica of it is being played as part of a touring orchestra. The \"Golden Lyre\" got its name because the whole head of the bull is made of gold. The eyes are made of inlaid mother-of-pearl and lapis lazuli. The beard is similar in appearance to the \"Great Lyre\" and the \"Queen's Lyre\". The body of the bull was originally wood but did not survive. Its discoverer, Woolley, believes that unlike the other lyres, the body of the \"Golden Lyre\" would have originally had legs.\n\nThe \"Queen's Lyre\" is one of two that Woolley found in the grave of Queen Pu-abi. The \"Queen's Lyre\" is in height and is similar in appearance to that of the \"Great Lyre\". The mask of the bull is gold. The eyes, hair, and beard are all made of lapis lazuli and the horns are modern. The shape of the lyre is meant to resemble a bull's body. A noticeable difference between the \"Great Lyre\" and the \"Queens Lyre\" is that the \"Great Lyre\" has a straight forehead where the \"Queen's Lyre\" curves slightly around the brow bone. It is held in the British Museum.\n\nThe \"Great Lyre\" is in height and in width. The shape of the lyre is meant to resemble a bull's body. Its head, face and horns are all wrapped in gold foil. The head is garnished with lapis lazuli hair, beard, and eyes. Below the beard is a front panel made of lapis lazuli, shell and red limestone originally set in bitumen. This frontal panel depicts a figure holding onto a bull's horns above, and animals acting as humans below. The bull head itself, represents the sun god Shamash. Shamash is a divine judge who could descend into the underworld.\n\nThe \"Silver Lyre\" is in height and in width. It is one of two silver lyres discovered in \"The Great Pit\". Both lyres were made of wood and then covered in sheets of silver that were attached with small silver nails. The eyes are made of lapis lazuli and the lyre was also trimmed with narrow borders of lapis lazuli. This is the only lyre that is not bearded. Because of this fresh face some believe it is actually a cow rather than a bull.\n\nA silver Boat-shaped Lyre and a lyre with the head of a bull made of gold sheet and a lapis lazuli beard are held by the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2809471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2809471", "title": "Língua do Pê", "text": "Língua do Pê\n\nLíngua dos Pês (Portuguese, \"P Language\") is a language game spoken in Brazil and Portugal with Portuguese. It is also known in other languages, such as Dutch and Afrikaans.\n\nThere are at least three different \"dialects,\" or variations, of Língua do Pê.\n\nThis \"dialect\" of Língua do Pê is just like the Jeringonza and the Idioma F language games in Spanish. It works by repeating the rime of each syllable, beginning it with \"p\" (\"pê\" in Portuguese). Examples:\n\n\nThis \"dialect\" is like the one described above, except that some vowels are changed. When an open syllable (one that ends in a vowel) has or as its vowel, it is changed to and , respectively. \n\n\nPlease note that the syllables beginning with \"p\" are stressed, not the original syllables.\n\nThis \"dialect\" is more like Kongarian (a language game spoken with Hungarian) than the other \"dialects\" of Língua do Pê. To speak it, the syllable \"pê\" is inserted before every syllable. This is the variant most used in Brazilian Portuguese, while the others are more common in European Portuguese.\n\n\nIn the Netherlands, the most common version is to instert the syllable \"ep\" before every sonant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28695336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28695336", "title": "Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act", "text": "Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act\n\nMaharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA) is a law enacted by Maharashtra state in India in 1999 to combat organised crime and terrorism. The preamble to MCOCA says that \"the existing legal framework, i.e. the penal and procedural laws and the adjudicatory system, are found to be rather inadequate to curb or control the menace of organised crime. Government has, therefore, decided to enact a special law with stringent and deterrent provisions including in certain circumstances power to intercept wire, electronic or oral communication to control the menace of organised crime.\" \n\nUnlike normal law the confessions before senior police officers are admissible, not only against the accused giving the confession but also against the other accused in the same case. There is no provision for granting anticipatory bail for 6 months to the accused.\n\nIn 2002 in order to curb the increasing crimes of the organised gangs this law was extended to the National Capital Territory of Delhi by the Union Home Ministry. Ajai Raj Sharma the then Commissioner of Delhi Police told a press conference, \"Organised gangs had been trying to gain a foothold in the national capital but their designs had been foiled so far. MCOCA will help in dealing with it more effectively.”\n\n"}
{"id": "1221086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1221086", "title": "Mandate (politics)", "text": "Mandate (politics)\n\nIn politics, a mandate is the authority granted by a constituency to act as its representative.\n\nThe concept of a government having a legitimate mandate to govern via the fair winning of a democratic election is a central idea of representative democracy. New governments who attempt to introduce policies that they did not make public during an election campaign are said not to have a legitimate \"mandate\" to implement such policies.\n\nElections, especially ones with a large margin of victory, and are often said to give the newly elected government or elected official an implicit mandate to put into effect certain policies. When a government seeks re-election they may introduce new policies as part of the campaign and are hoping for approval from the voters, and say they are seeking a \"new mandate\".\n\nIn some languages, a 'mandate' can mean a parliamentary seat won in an election rather than the electoral victory itself. In case such a mandate is bound to the wishes of the electorate, it is an imperative mandate, otherwise it is called \"free\".\n\n\nPolitical philosophy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "634988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634988", "title": "Mass comparison", "text": "Mass comparison\n\nMass comparison is a method developed by Joseph Greenberg to determine the level of genetic relatedness between languages. It is now usually called multilateral comparison. The method is rejected by most linguists , though not all.\n\nSome of the top-level relationships Greenberg named had already been posited by others and are now generally accepted (e.g. Afro-Asiatic and Niger–Congo). Others are accepted by many though disputed by some prominent specialists (e.g. Nilo-Saharan), others are predominantly rejected but have some defenders (e.g. Eurasiatic), while others are almost universally rejected (e.g. Khoisan and Amerind).\n\nMass comparison involves setting up a table of basic vocabulary items and their forms in the languages to be compared. The table can also include common morphemes. The following table was used by to illustrate the technique. It shows the forms of six items of basic vocabulary in nine different languages, identified by letters.\nThe basic relationships can be determined without any experience in the case of languages that are fairly closely related. Knowing a bit about probable paths of sound change allows one to go farther faster. An experienced typologist—Greenberg was a pioneer in the field—can quickly recognize or reject several potential cognates in this table as probable or improbable. For example, the path \"p\" > \"f\" is extremely frequent, the path \"f\" > \"p\" much less so, enabling one to hypothesize that \"fi\" : \"pi\" and \"fik\" : \"pix\" are indeed related and go back to protoforms *\"pi\" and *\"pik/x\", while knowledge that \"k\" > \"x\" is extremely frequent, \"x\" > \"k\" much less so enables one to choose *\"pik\" over *\"pix\". Thus, while mass comparison does not attempt to produce reconstructions of protolanguages—according to Greenberg (2005:318) these belong to a later phase of study—phonological considerations come into play from the very beginning.\n\nThe tables used in actual research involve much larger numbers of items and languages. The items included may be either lexical, such as 'hand', 'sky', and 'go', or morphological, such as PLURAL and MASCULINE .\n\nCritics of mass comparison generally assume that mass comparison has no means to distinguish borrowed forms from inherited ones, unlike comparative reconstruction, which is able to do so through regular sound correspondences. These questions were addressed by as of the 1950s. According to him, the key points are as follows :\n\n\n\nGreenberg considered that the results achieved through this method approached certainty : \"The presence of fundamental vocabulary resemblances and resemblances in items with grammatical function, particularly if recurrent through a number of languages, is a sure indication of genetic relationship.\"\n\nIt is often reported that Greenberg sought to replace the comparative method with a new method, mass comparison (or, among his less scrupulous critics, \"mass lexical comparison\"). He consistently rejected this characterization, stating for instance, \"The methods outlined here do not conflict in any fashion with the traditional comparative method\" (1957:44) and expressing wonderment at \"the strange and widely disseminated notion that I seek to replace the comparative method with a new and strange invention of my own\" (2002:2). According to Greenberg, mass comparison is the necessary \"first step\" in the comparative method (1957:44), and \"once we have a well-established stock I go about comparing and reconstructing just like anyone else, as can be seen in my various contributions to historical linguistics\" (1990, quoted in Ruhlen 1994:285). Reflecting the methodological empiricism also present in his typological work, he viewed facts as of greater weight than their interpretations, stating (1957:45):\n\nThe thesis of mass comparison, then, is that:\n\n\nThe conflict over mass comparison can be seen as a dispute over the legacy of the comparative method, developed in the 19th century, primarily by Danish and German linguists, in the study of Indo-European languages.\n\nSince the development of comparative linguistics in the 19th century, a linguist who claims that two languages are related, whether or not there exists historical evidence, is expected to back up that claim by presenting general rules that describe the differences between their lexicons, morphologies, and grammars. The procedure is described in detail in the comparative method article.\n\nFor instance, one could demonstrate that Spanish is related to Italian by showing that many words of the former can be mapped to corresponding words of the latter by a relatively small set of replacement rules—such as the correspondence of initial \"es-\" and \"s-\", final \"-os\" and \"-i\", etc. Many similar correspondences exist between the grammars of the two languages. Since those systematic correspondences are extremely unlikely to be random coincidences, the most likely explanation by far is that the two languages have evolved from a single ancestral tongue (Latin, in this case).\n\nAll pre-historical language groupings that are widely accepted today—such as the Indo-European, Uralic, Algonquian, and Bantu families—have been established this way.\n\nThe actual development of the comparative method was a more gradual process than Greenberg's detractors suppose. It has three decisive moments. The first was Rasmus Rask's observation in 1818 of a possible regular sound change in Germanic consonants. The second was Jacob Grimm's extension of this observation into a general principle (Grimm's law) in 1822. The third was Karl Verner's resolution of an irregularity in this sound change (Verner's law) in 1875. Only in 1861 did August Schleicher, for the first time, present systematic reconstructions of Indo-European proto-forms (Lehmann 1993:26). Schleicher, however, viewed these reconstructions as extremely tentative (1874:8). He never claimed that they proved the existence of the Indo-European family, which he accepted as a given from previous research—primarily that of Franz Bopp, his great predecessor in Indo-European studies.\n\nKarl Brugmann, who succeeded Schleicher as the leading authority on Indo-European, and the other Neogrammarians of the late 19th century, distilled the work of these scholars into the famous (if often disputed) principle that \"every sound change, insofar as it occurs automatically, takes place according to laws that admit of no exception\" (Brugmann 1878).\n\nThe Neogrammarians did not, however, regard regular sound correspondences or comparative reconstructions as relevant to the proof of genetic relationship between languages. In fact, they made almost no statements on how languages are to be classified (Greenberg 2005:158). The only Neogrammarian to deal with this question was Berthold Delbrück, Brugmann's collaborator on the \"Grundriß der vergleichenden Grammatik der indogermanischen Sprachen\" (Greenberg 2005:158-159, 288). According to Delbrück (1904:121-122, quoted in Greenberg 2005:159), Bopp had claimed to prove the existence of Indo-European in the following way:\n\nFurthermore, Delbrück took the position later enunciated by Greenberg on the priority of etymologies to sound laws (1884:47, quoted in Greenberg 2005:288): \"obvious etymologies are the material from which sound laws are drawn.\"\n\nThe opinion that sound correspondences or, in another version of the opinion, reconstruction of a proto-language are necessary to show relationship between languages thus dates from the 20th, not the 19th century, and was never a position of the Neogrammarians. Indo-European was recognized by scholars such as William Jones (1786) and Franz Bopp (1816) long before the development of the comparative method.\n\nFurthermore, Indo-European was not the first language family to be recognized by students of language. Semitic had been recognized by European scholars in the 17th century, Finno-Ugric in the 18th. Dravidian was recognized in the mid-19th century by Robert Caldwell (1856), well before the publication of Schleicher's comparative reconstructions.\n\nFinally, the supposition that all of the language families generally accepted by linguists today have been established by the comparative method is untrue. For example, although Eskimo–Aleut has long been accepted as a valid family, \"Proto-Eskimo–Aleut has not yet been reconstructed\" (Bomhard 2008:209). Other families were accepted for decades before comparative reconstructions of them were put forward, for example Afro-Asiatic and Sino-Tibetan. Many languages are generally accepted as belonging to a language family even though no comparative reconstruction exists, often because the languages are only attested in fragmentary form, such as the Anatolian language Lydian (Greenberg 2005:161). Conversely, detailed comparative reconstructions exist for some language families which nonetheless remain controversial, such as Altaic and Nostratic (however, a specification is needed here: Nostratic is a proposed proto-proto-language, while Altaic is a \"simple\" proto-language - with Altaic languages widely accepted as typologically related. Detractors of both proposals simply claim that the data collected to show by comparativism the existence of both families is scarce, wrong and non sufficient. Keep in mind that regular phonological correspondences need thousands of lexicon lists to be prepared and compared before being established. These lists are lacking for both the proposed families. Furthermore, other specific problems affect \"comparative\" lists of both proposals, like the late attestation for Altaic languages, or the comparison of not certain proto-forms, like proto-Kartvelian, for Nostratic.).\n\nGreenberg claimed that he was at bottom merely continuing the simple but effective method of language classification that had resulted in the discovery of numerous language families prior to the elaboration of the comparative method (1955:1-2, 2005:75) and that had continued to do so thereafter, as in the classification of Hittite as Indo-European in 1917 (Greenberg 2005:160-161). This method consists in essentially two things: resemblances in basic vocabulary and resemblances in inflectional morphemes. If mass comparison differs from it in any obvious way, it would seem to be in the theoretization of an approach that had previously been applied in a relatively ad hoc manner and in the following additions:\n\n\nThe positions of Greenberg and his critics therefore appear to provide a starkly contrasted alternative:\n\n\nBesides systematic changes, languages are also subject to random mutations (such as borrowings from other languages, irregular inflections, compounding, and abbreviation) that affect one word at a time, or small subsets of words. For example, Spanish \"perro\" (dog), which does not come from Latin, cannot be rule-mapped to its Italian equivalent \"cane\" (the Spanish word \"can\" is the Latin-derived equivalent but is much less used in everyday conversations, being reserved for more formal purposes). As those sporadic changes accumulate, they will increasingly obscure the systematic ones—just as enough dirt and scratches on a photograph will eventually make the face unrecognizable.\n\nOn this point, Greenberg and his critics agree, as over against the Moscow school, but they draw contrasting conclusions:\n\n\nIn spite of the apparently intractable nature of the conflict between Greenberg and his critics, a few linguists have begun to argue for its resolution. Edward Vajda, noted for his recent proposal of Dené–Yeniseian, attempts to stake out a position that is sympathetic to both Greenberg's approach and that of its critics, such as Lyle Campbell and Johanna Nichols. George Starostin, a member of the Moscow school, argues that Greenberg's work, while perhaps not going beyond inspection, presents interesting sets of forms that call for further scrutiny by comparative reconstruction, specifically with regard to the proposed Khoisan and Amerind families.\n\n\n\nAnti-Greenbergian\n\n\nGreenbergian\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38001414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38001414", "title": "Max Pfister", "text": "Max Pfister\n\nMax Pfister (21 April 1932 in Zürich – 21 October 2017 in Saarbrücken) was a Swiss Romance studies scholar and linguist.\n\nHe is the initiator of the LEI (\"Lessico etimologico italiano\"), which deals with Italian and German research of etymology and dialectology of the Italian language, now directed together with Wolfgang Schweickard .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48430874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48430874", "title": "Minerita", "text": "Minerita\n\nMinerita is a 2015 Spanish short-documentary film about three women working the Potosi mines in Bolivia. The documentary was well received by critics and earned widespread critical acclaim. \"Minerita\" was shortlisted with nine other documentaries from 74 entries submitted to the 88th Academy Awards in the Documentary Short Subject category, but was not nominated as a finalist.\n\n\"Minerita\" is the story of three women—Lucía (40), Ivone (16) and Abigail (17), who work as night watch women in the Cerro Rico mining district in Potosi, Bolivia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52098504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52098504", "title": "Mummy (monster)", "text": "Mummy (monster)\n\nMummies are commonly featured in horror genres as undead creatures wrapped in bandages.\n\nThe original inspiration for undead mummies comes from the process of mummification.\n\n\n\nDuring the 20th century, horror films and other mass media popularized the notion of a curse associated with mummies (\"see Curse of the pharaohs\"). The 1922 discovery of Tutankhamun's tomb by archaeologist Howard Carter brought mummies into the mainstream.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4222651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4222651", "title": "Muxe", "text": "Muxe\n\nIn Zapotec cultures of Oaxaca (southern Mexico), a muxe (also spelled muxhe; ) is an assigned male at birth individual who dresses and behaves in ways otherwise associated with the female gender; they may be seen as a third gender. Some marry women and have children while others choose men as sexual or romantic partners. According to anthropologist Lynn Stephen, muxe \"may do certain kinds of women’s work such as embroidery or decorating home altars, but others do the male work of making jewelry\".\n\nThe word ' is thought to derive from the Spanish word for \"woman\", '. In the 16th-century, the letter \"x\" had a sound similar to \"sh\" (see ).\n\nIn contrast to Mexico's majority \"mestizo\" culture, the isthmus of Oaxaca has a predominantly Zapotec population, and it is widely reported that there is less hostility toward muxe in the region than what homosexual, effeminate males, and trans women face in other regions of the country. One study estimates that 6 percent of males in an Isthmus Zapotec community in the early 1970s were muxe. Other Zapotec communities have similar \"third gender\" roles, such as the \"biza’ah\" of Teotitlán del Valle.\n\nMuxe may be \"vestidas\" (wearing female clothes) or \"pintadas\" (wearing male clothes and make-up). It has been suggested that while the three gender system predates Spanish colonization, the phenomenon of muxe dressing as women is fairly recent, beginning in the 1950s and gaining popularity until nearly all of the younger generation of muxe today are \"vestidas\".\n\nWithin contemporary Zapotec culture, reports vary as to their social status. Muxe in village communities may not be disparaged and highly respected, while in larger, more Westernised towns they may face some discrimination, especially from men due to attitudes introduced by Catholicism. Muxe generally belong to the poorer classes of society. Gender variance and same-sex desire in wealthier communities of the region are more likely to follow a more western taxonomy of gay, bisexual and transgender. Such individuals are also more likely to remain in \"the closet\". Despite this, Muxe have traditionally been considered good luck, worth more than cisgender women and many now have white-collar jobs or are involved in politics.\n\nIn an article published in 1995, anthropologist Beverly Chiñas explains that in the Zapotec culture, \"the idea of choosing gender or of sexual orientation is as ludicrous as suggesting that one can choose one's skin color.\" Most people traditionally view their gender as something God has given them (whether man, woman, or muxe), and few muxe desire genital surgery. They generally do not suffer from gender dysphoria because transphobia is a rare attitude in their culture, people are generally accepting of them and they usually have their gender recognised through their clothing, there is not as much pressure to \"pass\" as in Western societies.\n\nLynn Stephen writes: \"Muxe men are not referred to as \"homosexuals\" but constitute a separate category based on gender attributes. People perceive them as having the physical bodies of men but different aesthetic, work, and social skills from most men. They may have some attributes of women or combine those of men and women.\" If they do choose men as sexual partners, neither are those men (known as \"mayate\") necessarily considered homosexual.\n\nIn 2003, 25-year-old muxe from Juchitán de Zaragoza gained international prominence as a congressional candidate for the México Posible party in the Oaxaca state elections. Her broad platform included calls for the decriminalization of marijuana and abortion.\n\nLukas Avendaño is an emerging Mexican performance artist whose recent work constitutes a queer performatic intervention of Mexican nationalistic representations, particularly that of Zapotec Tehuana women. Avendaño embodies the complex identity of muxes, or male homosexuals from the Tehuantepec Isthmus where he was born. His cross-dressing performance interweaves ritual dances with autobiographical passages and actions that involve audience members, in order to challenge the widely held view of a gay-friendly indigenous culture and point towards the existence of lives that negotiate pain and loneliness with self-affirming pride.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33080361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33080361", "title": "Online exhibition", "text": "Online exhibition\n\nAn online exhibition, also referred to as a virtual exhibition, online gallery, cyber-exhibition, is an exhibition whose venue is cyberspace.\n\nMuseums and other organizations create online exhibitions for many reasons.\nFor example, an online exhibition may: expand on material presented at, or generate interest in, or create a durable online record of, a physical exhibition; save production costs (insurance, shipping, installation); solve conservation/preservation problems (e.g., handling of fragile or rare objects); reach lots more people: \"Access to information is no longer restricted to those who can afford travel and museum visits, but is available to anyone who has access to a computer with an Internet connection.\n\nUnlike physical exhibitions, online exhibitions are not restricted by time; they are not forced to open and close but may be available 24 hours a day.\n\nIn the nonprofit world, many museums, libraries, archives, universities, and other cultural organizations create online exhibitions. A database of such exhibitions is Library and Archival Exhibitions on the Web. Online exhibitions are also increasingly being utilized by businesses and individuals.\n\nOnline exhibition organizers may use techniques such as marquee text, display advertisements, and in-event emails to engage patrons.\n\nVarious guides have been published to help organizations create effective online exhibitions.\n\nThe earliest museum with a physical existence to create a programme of substantial online exhibitions with high resolution images of artefacts was the Museum of the History of Science in Oxford, the first of which, \"The Measurers: a Flemish Image of Mathematics in the Sixteenth Century\" and an exhibition of early photographs, were published on 21 August 1995.\n\nAlso popular now are virtual exhibitions for business, participation in which allows you to save significant funds and cover a larger number of potential customers, without restriction on the place and time. \n\nIn recent years, new virtual museums have published online exhibitions as : \n"}
{"id": "26135208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26135208", "title": "Patrick Hemingway", "text": "Patrick Hemingway\n\nPatrick Miller Hemingway (born June 28, 1928) is Ernest Hemingway's second son, and the first born to Hemingway's second wife Pauline Pfeiffer. During his childhood he travelled frequently with his parents, and then attended Harvard University, graduated in 1950, and shortly thereafter moved to East Africa where he lived for 25 years. In Tanzania, Patrick was a professional big-game hunter and for over a decade he owned a safari business. In the 1960s he was appointed by the United Nations to the Wildlife Management College in Tanzania as a teacher of conservation and wildlife. In the 1970s he moved to Montana where he manages the intellectual property of his father's estate. He edited his father's unpublished novel about a 1950s safari to Africa and published it with the title \"True at First Light\" (1999).\n\nBorn in Kansas City, Missouri, he traveled with his parents to Europe in 1929 and again in 1933, to Wyoming and Idaho during his summers, though his permanent residence was in Key West. In 1940, his parents divorced, after which his father married Martha Gellhorn. After their marriage, they moved to Cuba where Patrick visited often. At the beginning of World War II, Patrick helped crew his father's boat, the Pilar, on improvised attack missions in the Gulf of Mexico. Patrick attended Stanford University for two years, transferred to Harvard and graduated in 1950 with a BA in History and Literature.\n\nPatrick was married to Henrietta Broyles, with whom he has a daughter, Mina Hemingway (born 1960)..\n\nHaving studied agriculture at his mother's plantation in Piggott, Arkansas, Patrick used his inheritance after her death to buy a farm near Dar-es-Salaam. He and his wife moved to Africa, where he lived for 25 years. Patrick lived for much of his life in Tanganyika where he ran a safari expedition company; served as a white hunter to wealthy patrons; and as an honorary game warden in Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania. He started his safari business, called Tanganyika Safari Business, near Mt. Kilimanjaro in 1955, which he gave up in the early 1960s when his wife was ill. For 12 years he taught conservation of wildlife at the College of African Wildlife Management in Tanzania, as part of his job as forestry officer in the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) of the United Nations. The College of African Wildlife Management at Mweka trains armed officers to enforce wildlife protection laws in Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nHis father Ernest died in 1961, and his wife Henrietta died in 1963. When he left Africa he moved to Bozeman, Montana where he has lived since 1975. He oversees the management of Ernest Hemingway's intellectual property, which includes projects in publishing, electronic media, and movies in the United States and worldwide.\n\nHemingway edited his father's \"Africa book\" that was published in 1999 with the title \"True at First Light\". The book is a blend of fact and fiction from the East Africa expedition Ernest and fourth wife Mary went on from late 1953 to early 1954, in part to visit Patrick and his wife. Toward the end of the trip Ernest Hemingway was in two successive plane crashes and was reported dead. He sustained a severe head wound which went largely undiagnosed until he left Africa. Upon his return to Cuba he worked sporadically on \"True at First Light\", but eventually set it aside.\n\nThe manuscript was in the John F. Kennedy Library Hemingway Archives, and Patrick edited the 800 pages down to half the size. He had been present with his father during much of the expedition and was familiar with the events of Africa during that year, which he describes in the \"Foreword\" to \"True at First Light\".\n\nHemingway contributed an introduction to the 1990 \"Green Hills of Africa\"; the 1991 \"Valley of Life: Africa's Great Rift\"; the 2003\" Hemingway on Hunting\"; the 2003 \"Hemingway on War\"; and a \"foreword\" to the 2009 republished edition of his father's \"A Moveable Feast\". For the 2012 special edition of \"A Farewell to Arms\", containing all forty-seven alternative endings, Patrick wrote a personal foreword. His nephew, grandson of Ernest Hemingway, Seán Hemingway wrote the introduction.\n\n"}
{"id": "40844312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40844312", "title": "Radoslav Večerka", "text": "Radoslav Večerka\n\nRadoslav Večerka (18 April 1928, Brno – 18 December 2017, Brno) was a Czech linguist, university professor, journalist, editor and literary scholar active in the field of Slavic studies with a focus on paleography, comparative studies of Slavic languages and Slavic history.\n\nHe graduated in Czech, Russian and Slavic comparative linguistics at the Masaryk University in Brno. His teachers included prominent Paleo-Slavists such as Josef Kurz, Bohemists such as František Trávníček and Adolf Kellner, Indo-Europeanist Václav Machek and the founder of the Czech School in Comparative Literature Frank Wollman. Already during the studies he began his educational work as an assistant (1950–1952), and after graduation he remained working at the faculty (1952–1955 as a scientific intern; 1955–1964 as an Assistant Professor, 1964–1990 as an Associate Professor, 1994–present as a full Professor of Slavic Linguistics and Literary Studies, now professor emeritus).\n\nIn 1952 he received his doctorate of philosophy, from 1957 he was a candidate of philological sciences (Ph.D.), and since 1988 Doctor of Philological Sciences (DrSc.). In the period of 1967–1968 he was an associate dean at the Faculty of Philosophy in Brno, in 1990–1991 the head of Department of Czech Language at Masaryk University, in 1990–1997 Member of the Scientific Board of the Faculty. As a visiting professor he lectured at the universities of Erlangen, Munster, Regensburg, Heidelberg, Freiburg im Breisgau, Sofia, Veliko Tarnovo, Budapest, Szeged and Vienna.\n\nHis lifelong research focus is primarily on Paleoslavic studies (with a special emphasis on syntax and lexicography), on Old Church Slavonic in the larger context of cultural, historical and literary domain, as well as the comparative Slavic etymology and history. In addition to his extensive teaching, research, publishing, and editorial work he is a longtime member of the Scientific Council of the Slavic Institute at the Czech Academy of Sciencies, Czechoslovak and later Czech Committee of Slavicists and the Commission for the Old Slavic Church Slavonic Lexicology and Lexicography at the International Committee of Slavicists. He was co-organizer of international symposia on issues of Slavic syntax at the Faculty of Philosophy in the years 1961–1976, and has contributed on most of the Slavic international congresses held after the World War II.\n\nHe is the author and co-author of several books and more than 300 papers, articles, studies, reports, reviews, obituaries, textbooks, biographical-bibliographical portraits and jubilee materials, published in Czech and foreign periodicals. Since 1982 he is a contributor to the project \"Slovník jazyka staroslověnského = Lexicon linguae paleoslovenicae\" (\"Dictionary of the Old Church Slavonic\"), and since 1990 also to the \"Etymologického slovníku jazyka staroslověnského\" (\"Etymological Dictionary Old Church Slavonic\")\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2246567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2246567", "title": "Recommended precaution", "text": "Recommended precaution\n\nRecommended precaution () is a fiqh term, prominently used by Shi'a marjas when giving fatwas. Ihtiyat is an action in such a way that including certain knowledge to original Taklif. This term considered from two view: first one is Usuli view and the other juridical perspective (fiqh). In Usuli view, Ihtiyat is concerned with the principle of Ihtiyat while in juridical view, Ihtiyat dealt with Ijtihad, Imitation and Qisas.\n\nThere are many definitions for recommended precaution (Ihtiyat) in fiqh books and essays. Ihtiyat obsereved in where the man of jurisprudence doesn't say anythying about fatwa and in other hand jurists choose the way of imitation freely.sometimes Ihtiyat is to action of Mokallaf (one who must act religious tasks)in such a way that the one find definite knowledge of original task. Ihtiyat sometimes is along with the repetition of action and sometimes with is not along with.also there is a difference between Ihtiyat in fatwa and giving fatwa in recommended precaution. Ihtiyat literally means preservation and keeping. caution concerned primarily with action but Tavaqqof with creating rules.\n\nThere are many divisions in Ihtiyat and its types. Ihtiyat divided in one hand into Indispensipble, Mostahab and needed and in other hand in respect to Action, not action and collection of action and not action.\n\nThree groups of verses refers to indispensability of Ihtiyat.\n\n\n\n\nWhen Shi'a marjas give fatwas, they sometimes are not sure about the legality of some issues. In those cases, they recommend that the follower of the marja refrain from the act, in case it would indeed be haram. This is in contrast to the general term Mustahabb, where people voluntarily do or refrain from doing actions that they know they are \"not\" obliged to.\n\nAs example:\n"}
{"id": "8948543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8948543", "title": "Rubbing", "text": "Rubbing\n\nA rubbing (\"frottage\") is a reproduction of the texture of a surface created by placing a piece of paper or similar material over the subject and then rubbing the paper with something to deposit marks, most commonly charcoal or pencil, but also various forms of blotted and rolled ink, chalk, wax, and many other substances. For all its simplicity, the technique can be used to produce blur-free images of minuscule elevations and depressions on areas of any size in a way that can hardly be matched by even the most elaborate, state-of-the-art methods. In this way, surface elevations measuring only a few thousandths of a millimeter can be made visible.\n\nCommon uses for this technique include:\n"}
{"id": "43752528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43752528", "title": "Santo Bambino of Aracoeli", "text": "Santo Bambino of Aracoeli\n\nThe Santo Bambino of Aracoeli (\"Holy Boy of Aracoeli\"), sometimes known as the Bambino Gesù di Aracoeli (\"Child Jesus of Aracoeli\") is a 15th-century Roman Catholic devotional wooden image enshrined in the titular Basilica of Santa Maria in Aracoeli, depicting the Child Jesus swaddled in golden fabric, wearing a crown, and adorned with various gemstones and jewels donated by devotees.\n\nOn 18 January 1894, Pope Leo XIII authorised its public devotion and granted a canonical coronation on 2 May 1897. It was again blessed by Pope John Paul II on 8 January 1984. The image was stolen in 1 February 1994, then replaced with a copy while the original statue itself resides in the Church of Saint John the Baptist in Cori, Lazio, where it is under secured custody by the Salviati-Borghese clan, which asserts claim of rightful ownership of the image per local tradition dating back to the 18th century. \nThe wooden image measures approximately 60 centimeters tall and depicts the Child Jesus as an infant. According to historical records preserved at the Basilica Santa Maria in Aracoeli, the image was carved from a single block of olive wood from the Garden of Gethsemani by a Franciscan friar assigned to the Holy Land in the fifteenth century.\n\nPilgrimages to the images are recorded as early as 1794. In February 1798, the image was seized by French troops but ransomed by Roman aristocrat Serafin Petraca, thus saving it from being burned. It remained in a convent in Trastevere for a little over a year while a new shrine was built. In 1838, thieves, ostensibly bending to kiss the image, made off with a considerable part of the jewelry with which he was adorned. During anti-Catholic protests in 1848, Carlo Armellini saved the Santo Bambino from arson.\n\nRomans have long associated the image with healing. According to one account, sometime in the 1800s a member of the noble Torlonia family became seriously ill and the friars were asked to bring the Santo Bambino to the sickbed. The friars obliged and the person recovered. Thereafter, Prince Alessandro Torlonia used a carriage that belonged to Pope Leo XIII to spend his Thursdays bringing the image on \"house calls\" to the sick unable to visit the Basilica. Until the beginning of the 20th century, a coach of Prince Torlonia was available day and night to bring the Santo Bambino to the bedside of a sick person.\n\nToday, the chapel is filled with letters from all over the world, some of them addressed only to \"Il Bambino, Rome\". To make room for new letters, several weeks' worth of old ones are removed and burned with some incense. These are left unopened because, as a Franciscan custodian of the image puts it, \"What is in the letters, is a matter between the Bambino and the letter writer and does not concern us.\" \n\nAt Christmas, the Bambino is customarily placed in the crèche at the Basilica. Another custom is, in the period between Christmas and Epiphany, to have children of six to ten years of age stand on a specially built platform to speak to the Bambino. This has fallen out of practice, having been replaced by the mainstream religious procession.\n\n\n\n\nThe statue itself was adorned with valuable \"ex-votos\". It was customarily stored at night in a secured cabinet, but on 1 February 1994 at approximately 4:00 PM, two thieves masqueraded as workers on a scaffold erected in the monastery for renovations. By one account, the thieves ransacked the friars' rooms looking for valuables, and coming to the room where the image was stored at night, found the armored cabinet open. Another version says the statue was still on display in the Basilica's crèche, which was to be removed the next day. \n\nWhile the police believed it would be difficult to recover any of the gold and valuables taken with the image, they considered the Santo Bambino too well-known to be easily marketed. The theft of the Santo Bambino caused considerable outrage in Rome. A number of rich individuals offered to underwrite a ransom, but the Franciscans discouraged that approach and proceeded to have a copy made. The inmates at the Regina Coeli prison even wrote a petition to their anonymous \"colleagues\", asking for its return. That having failed, they donated money for the new copy.\n\nAccordingly, the original statue is also venerated today in the Church of San Giovanni in Giulianello in Cori, Lazio, where it is revered and under secured custody of the Salviati and Borghese clan, while the 1994 copy remains at Santa Maria in Araceoli. Pious tradition in Cori maintains that in the 18th century, the Prefect of Pontifical Household, Cardinal Scipione Borghese, Archbishop of Teodosia (now suppressed), donated the image to the Church of San Giovanni in Giulianello in an effort to prevent the image from being stolen or desecrated by left-wing Jacobin militants. A solar brooch depicting the allegorical image \"Sun of Justice\" was attached to the image, later stolen, and was associated with the Milanese jeweller Carlo Sartore. The Sun of Justice is depicted in older 19th-century lithographs of the image.\n\nPious tradition holds that when the friar did not have the paints necessary to finish his work, it was completed by an angel. Upon his return to Italy, the ship was wrecked during a storm. The friar survived and later found the statue washed up on the shore at Livorno.\n\nA second tale recounts that in 1797, the Princess Paolina Borghese wishing to have the statue for herself, had a copy made. When her cousin became gravely ill, the family requested that the Bambino be brought, but returned the copy. However, at midnight while the bells rang at Santa Maria in Araceoli, the statue miraculously returned to its rightful place, thus inspiring the famous urban legend tale of a Roman noblewoman pretending to be sick with the ulterior motive to take the image to her home.\n\nAccording to tradition, the lips of the Holy Child turn red when a request is going to be granted, and white when the cause presented is hopeless.\n\n"}
{"id": "55977314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55977314", "title": "St. Anne's Column", "text": "St. Anne's Column\n\nSt. Anne's Column () stands in the city centre of Innsbruck on \"Maria-Theresien-Straße\".\n\nIt was given its name when, in 1703, the last Bavarian troops were driven from the Tyrol on St. Anne's Day (26 July), as part of the War of the Spanish Succession. In 1704, in gratitude, the \"Landstände\" vowed to build a monument commemorating the event.\n\nThe column was made by Trient sculptor, Cristoforo Benedetti, from red Kramsach marble. On the base are four statues of saints:\nTowering above these four statues is the column with its statue of Mary as the Woman of the Apocalypse.\n\nThe column was consecrated on 26 July 1706 by Prince-Bishop Kaspar Ignaz, Count of Künigl. It has been restored several times over the centuries. In 1958, mainly for conservation reasons, the figure of Mary was replaced by a replica and the original was loaned to the Abbey of St. Georgenberg-Fiecht, where it has been placed in a side chapel of the abbey church of Fiecht (near Schwaz) above Saint Mary's altar.\n\nOn 10 October 2009 the figures of saints on the base of the monument were also substituted; the originals are now on the first floor of the Altes Landhaus in Innsbruck.\n\n"}
{"id": "6490947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6490947", "title": "Stereolaffs", "text": "Stereolaffs\n\nStereolaffs is the comedy record label run by Jon Wurster and Tom Scharpling of the longform radio comedy duo Scharpling and Wurster.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53015755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53015755", "title": "Tahrir al-Sham", "text": "Tahrir al-Sham\n\nHay'at Tahrir al-Sham (, transliteration: ', \"Organization for the Liberation of the Levant\" or \"Levant Liberation Committee\"), commonly referred to as Tahrir al-Sham and abbreviated HTS, also known as al-Qaeda in Syria, is an active Salafist jihadist militant group involved in the Syrian Civil War. The group was formed on 28 January 2017 as a merger between Jabhat Fateh al-Sham (formerly al-Nusra Front), the Ansar al-Din Front, Jaysh al-Sunna, Liwa al-Haqq, and the Nour al-Din al-Zenki Movement. After the announcement, additional groups and individuals joined. The merged group is currently led by Jabhat Fatah al-Sham and former Ahrar al-Sham leaders, although the High Command consists of leaders from other groups. Many groups and individuals defected from Ahrar al-Sham, representing their more conservative and Salafist elements. Currently, a number of analysts and media outlets still continue to refer to this group by its previous names, al-Nusra Front, or Jabhat Fateh al-Sham. The Ansar al-Din Front and Nour al-Din al-Zenki Movement have since split off from Tahrir al-Sham.\n\nDespite the merger, Tahrir al-Sham has been accused of working as al-Qaeda's Syrian branch on a covert level, and that many of the group's senior figures, particularly Abu Jaber, held similarly extreme views. However, Tahrir al-Sham has officially denied being part of al-Qaeda and said in a statement that the group is \"an independent entity and not an extension of previous organizations or factions\". Additionally, some factions such as Nour al-Din al-Zenki, which was part of the merger, were once supported by the US. Russia claims that Tahrir al-Sham shares al-Nusra Front's goal of turning Syria into an Islamic emirate run by al-Qaeda.\n\nAbdullah al-Muhaysini, Abu Taher al-Hamawi, and Abd ar-Razzaq al-Mahdi worked on the formation of the group.\n\nOn 28 January 2017, the date of their formation that Tahrir al-Sham was formed, the group announced the formation of its elite units, the \"Inghimasi\", some of whom were deployed in Idlib city. They could also be used for suicide infiltration operations and as assault troops.\n\nOn 30 January, there were reports of mobilizations by Tahrir al-Sham and Ahrar al-Sham at the Bab al-Hawa Border Crossing and other nearby areas, and that the two groups were preparing for another round of clashes. On 30 January, it was reported that there were around 31,000 fighters in Tahrir al-Sham, while in March analyst Charles Lister described is as \"likely commanding 12,000 to 14,000 fighters\".\n\nSoon after the group's formation, many local Syrians began referring to the group as Hetesh, which was an Arabic acronym meant as a pejorative, similar the \"Daesh\" label applied to ISIL by much of the Arab World. This labeling indicated that many Syrians saw Tahrir al-Sham as no different than ISIL, especially given the similarities between Tahrir al-Sham's recent attacks and ISIL's massive offensive on rebel forces in 2014.\n\nHTS suffered losses from air attacks by Coalition forces. On 1 February 2017, pro-government media reported that the US had conducted an airstrike on Carlton Hotel, in the city of Idlib, which was used by Tahrir al-Sham's former al-Nusra component for troop housing, and hosting meetings of prominent commanders, although opposition sources said the hotel was used by the Syrian Arab Red Crescent, and US involvement has not been confirmed. On the same day, the Elite Division of the FSA was attacked by Tahrir al-Sham. On 3 February, a US airstrike struck a Tahrir al-Sham headquarters in Sarmin, killing 12 members of HTS and Jund al-Aqsa. 10 of the killed militants were HTS members. The airstrike also killed militant commander Ibrahim al-Rihaal Abu Bakr.\n\nThere has been resistance to HTS by civilians in rebel areas it controls. On 3 February, hundreds of Syrians demonstrated under the slogan \"There is no place for al-Qaeda in Syria\" in the towns of Atarib, Azaz, Maarat al-Nu'man to protest against HTS. In response, supporters of HTS organized counter-protests in al-Dana, Idlib, Atarib, and Khan Shaykhun. In Idlib pro- Hayyat Tahrir al-Sham protests were held waving pictures of its leader Abu Jaber on 3 February 2017. Attendance at a speech by HTS cleric Abdullah al-Muhaysini was manipulated by drawing internally displaced persons and impoverished people with promises of motorcycles and refrigerators through a raffle.\n\nOn 4 February 2017, a US airstrike killed al-Qaeda commander Abu Hani al-Masri, who was a part of Ahrar al-Sham at the time of his death. It was reported that he was about to defect to Tahrir al-Sham before his death. On the same day, Tahrir al-Sham official Muslah al-Alyani criticized other groups for not joining Tahrir al-Sham, arguing that any group that \"fought for Islam\" would be bombed, regardless of terrorist designations. In his statement, he indicated that one of the reasons why most Ahrar al-Sham fighters refused to join Tahrir al-Sham was because the latter group contained terrorist-designated individuals.\n\nAround 8 February, Abu Muhammad al-Maqdisi confirmed that 2 senior Jabhat Fateh al-Sham leaders, including former al-Nusra deputy leader Sami al-Oraydi, left Tahrir al-Sham after its formation.\n\nA speech was released by Abu Jaber on 9 February. He emphasized his group being an \"independent entity\" and praised his \"brothers\" in the \"Syrian Jihad\". The statement included derogatory rhetoric on Shia Muslims.\n\nOn 12 February, the Bunyan al-Marsous Operations Room, of which Tahrir al-Sham was a member, launched an offensive against the Syrian Army in Daraa's Manshiyah district. Tahrir al-Sham forces reportedly began the attack with 2 suicide bombers and car bombs.\n\nOn 13 February, clashes erupted between the previously-allied Tahrir al-Sham and Jund al-Aqsa, also called Liwa al-Aqsa, in northern Hama and southern Idlib.\n\nOn 15 February, Ahrar al-Sham published an infographic on its recent defections, claiming that only 955 fighters had defected to Tahrir al-Sham. There were also reports that Ahrar al-Sham, the Sham Legion, Jaysh al-Izza, the Turkistan Islamic Party in Syria, and the Tamkin Brigade would soon merge to form a new organization called the Syrian Liberation Front.\n\nOn 19 February, HTS arrested local FSA commander Anas Ibrahim in Atarib, and, in response, an anti-HTS protest was held in the town.\n\nOn 20 February, a Ma'arat al-Numan Shura Council was created by the Sham Legion, Ahrar al-Sham, and Tahrir al-Sham.\n\nOn 22 February, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova stated that Russia feared that Tahrir al-Sham would declare a new Islamic Emirate in northwestern Syria within a month, patterned after ISIL's self-styled \"Caliphate\" in Ar-Raqqah. On the same day, the Combating Terrorism Center reported that Jabhat Fateh al-Sham had formed the Tahrir al-Sham group due to its fear of being isolated, and to counter Ahrar al-Sham's recent expansion during the clashes in the Idlib Province.\n\nOn 22 February, the last of Liwa al-Asqa's 2,100 militants left their final positions in Khan Shaykhun, with unconfirmed reports in pro-government media that they were to join ISIL in the Ar-Raqqah Province after a negotiated withdrawal deal with Tahrir al-Sham and the Turkistan Islamic Party. Afterward, Tahrir al-Sham declared terminating Liwa al-Aqsa, and promised to watch for any remaining cells.\n\nOn 26 February, a US airstrike in Al-Mastoumeh, Idlib Province, killed Abu Khayr al-Masri, who was the deputy leader of al-Qaeda. The airstrike also killed another Tahrir al-Sham militant.\n\nIn early March 2017, local residents in the Idlib Province who supported FSA factions accused Tahrir al-Sham of doing more harm than good, saying that all they've done is \"kidnap people, set up checkpoints, and terrorize residents.\"\n\nOn 16 March, a US airstrike struck an al-Qaeda meeting in the village of al-Jinah, just southwest of Atarib, killing at least 29 and possibly over 50 civilians; the US claimed the people targeted in the strike were \"al-Qaeda militants\" but the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR), local residents and local officials have said that the building struck was a mosque filled with worshipers.\n\nOn the morning of 21 March (local time), according to local activists, a US drone strike in Darkoush, Idlib Province, killed Abu Islam al-Masri, a high-ranking HTS commander. HTS commander Abu al-'Abbas al-Darir was also killed in the drone strike. On the same day, Tahrir al-Sham launched the 2017 Hama offensive against Syrian Government forces.\n\nOn 24 March, two flatbed trucks carrying flour and belonging to an IHH-affiliated Turkish relief organization were stopped at a HTS checkpoint at the entrance to Sarmada. HTS then seized the trucks and the flour, which was intended for a bakery in Saraqib. The seizure caused 2,000 families in the area to be cut off from a free supply of bread.\n\nIn April 2017, Jaysh al-Islam attacked the HTS and expelled it from the territories under its control in Eastern Ghouta.\n\nOn 3 May, HTS arrested Suhail Muhammad Hamoud, \"Abu TOW\", a former FSA fighter, in a house raid in Idlib. Earlier, al-Hamoud had published a photograph of him smoking in front of a HTS billboard that prohibited smoking.\n\nOn 20 May, the main faction of the Abu Amara Battalions joined Tahrir al-Sham, which \"now boasts a fighting force of some 50,000 militants\" according to one source. However, the covert operations unit of the Abu Amara Battalions based in Aleppo remained independent.\n\nOn 27 May, Tahrir al-Sham and Saraya Ahl al-Sham clashed with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in the western Qalamoun Mountains near Arsal, Lebanon–Syria border. 33 fighters were killed from both sides.\n\nOn 29 May, Tahrir al-Sham arrested opposition activist and FSA commander Abdul Baset al-Sarout after accusing him of participating in an anti-HTS protest in Maarat al-Nu'man.\n\nOn 2 June 2017, defectors from the Northern Brigade's Commandos of Islam Brigade reportedly joined Tahrir al-Sham, although Captain Kuja, leader of the unit, stated that he is still part of the Northern Brigade.\n\nOn 20 July 2017, the Nour al-Din al-Zenki Movement led by Sheikh Tawfiq Shahabuddin announced its withdrawal from Tahrir al-Sham amid widespread conflict between HTS and Ahrar al-Sham, and became an independent Islamist group.\n\nOn 23 July 2017, Tahrir al-Sham expelled the remnants of Ahrar al-Sham from Idlib, capturing the entire city as well as 60% of the Idlib Governorate.\n\nOn 18 August 2017, Tahrir al-Sham captured 8 rebel fighters from the town of Madaya after it accused them of wanting to return to Madaya during a ceasefire agreement.\n\nOn 1 October 2017, the ibn Taymiyyah Battalions based in the town of Darat Izza defected from Tahrir al-Sham.\n\nIn November 2017, violent clashes erupted between the Nour al-Din al-Zenki Movement and Tahrir al-Sham in northern Idlib and western Aleppo, mainly in the area between Atme and Khan al-Asal.\n\nOn 25 February 2017, 5 Tahrir al-Sham suicide bombers attacked the headquarters of the Syrian military intelligence in Homs, killing dozens of security forces, including the head of the military security in Homs. Pictures of the attackers were released on Twitter. One of the attackers was a Khan Shaykhun native called Abu Hurayra (Safi Qatini), according to social media sources. The State Security branch chief and Military security branch chief died in the attack, according to social media sources. Hassan Daaboul was among the 40 assassinated by Hayyat Tahrir al-Sham. The explosion killed Ibrahim Darwish, a Brigadier General and the state security branch's chief. Syrian reporter Moussa al-Omar posted pictures of officers and soldiers who were killed. The War Center Media gave a figure of six suicide attackers and a death toll of thirty. The death toll was given at twenty by Moussa when he posted it a breaking. The death toll was given at thirty five on 24 February according to Moussa. The injured numbered fifty four and the dead numbered forty seven on 25 February according to Moussa. Abu Yusuf al-Muhajir, a Tahrir al-Sham military spokesman was interviewed by Human Voice on the bombings. Twenty-six names were released. Sheikh Samir bin Ali Ka'aka Abu Abdurrahman from Eastern Ghouta suggested that the attack was carried out by Iranians in a dispute between Russians and Iranians. Geneva-based opposition Syrians claimed that the Homs strike was carried out by the government. The attack took place the same time as the beginning of the Geneva Four talks. The attack was praised by Liwa Omar al-Farouq Brigade leader in Ahrar Al-Sham, Abu Abdul Malik (Mahmoud Nemah). The attack was mentioned in an article in the publication \"Al-Masra\" by Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. HTS leader Abu Mohammed al-Julani mentioned the Homs attack, stating that it was a message for the \"defeatist politicians\" to \"step aside.\" It has been disputed that the raid did resulted in the death of Ibrahim Darwish. Tariq Abdelhaleem posted a tweet on the Homs attack by Tahrir al-Sham.\n\nOn 11 March 2017, Tahrir al-Sham carried out a twin bombing attack in the Bab al-Saghir area of Damascus's Old City, killing 76 and wounding 120. The death toll included 43 Iraqi pilgrims. The attacks were at a shrine frequented by Shi'ite pilgrims and militiamen. They were described in a statement attributed to Tahrir al-Sham as targeting Iran-backed militias and pro-Assad fighters.\n\nIn early 2018, there were reports that HTS had been significantly weakened, and now had \"a small presence in Eastern Ghouta and declining influence in Idlib, northern Hama, and western Aleppo provinces\", with just 250 men in Eastern Ghouta\n\nIn February 2018, Tahrir al-Sham was accused of killing Fayez al-Madani, an opposition delegate tasked with negotiations with the government over electricity delivery in the northern Homs Governorate, in the city of al-Rastan. Hundreds of people, including fighters of the Men of God Brigade, part of the Free Syrian Army's National Liberation Movement group, proceeded to demonstrate against HTS in the city on 13 February. In response, HTS withdrew from Rastan and handed over its headquarters in the city to the Men of God Brigade. A breakaway faction of former HTS members was formed in February 2018, called the Guardians of Religion Organization. \n\nHTS was left excluded of the 24 February ceasefire agreement on Eastern Ghouta. In late February, a group of armed factions, including Failaq al-Rahman and Jaysh al-Islam, wrote to the UN declaring they were ready to \"evacuate\" remaining HTS fighters from Eastern Ghouta within 15 days. At the same time in Idlib Governorate, Ahrar al-Sham, Nour al-Din al-Zinki and Soqour al-Sham entered into conflict with HTS, taking significant territory.\n\nAbu Jaber, one of Tahrir al-Sham's leaders, has Salafist jihadist beliefs. This has resulted in him being arrested several times by the Syrian government. He was imprisoned at the Sednaya Prison in 2005 and released among several jihadist prisoners in 2011 who would form several Salafist rebel groups during the Syrian Civil War. Abu Jaber has also professed a belief in \"Popular Jihad\", a bottom-to-top approach in which jihadists would win the hearts and minds of the people, before setting out to establish jihadi governance, after receiving enough popular support, which is notably the opposite of ISIL's \"elite Jihad\" top-to-bottom approach.\n\nAnalysts have also argued that the group continues to maintain many of al-Nusra Front's al-Qaeda ideologies. Syrian reporter Abdullah Suleiman Ali also said that many of the former Jabhat Fateh al-Sham fighters still answered to al-Qaeda, and held an increasing amount of sway over the new group, despite its public rebranding. Tahrir al-Sham continues to harbor the former al-Nusra Front's goal of turning Syria into an Islamic Emirate, if such a governing entity were declared, it would be similar to ISIL's declaration of a Caliphate, according to Kremlin diplomats. The Combating Terrorism Center also reported that despite public statements by some of Tahrir al-Sham's top figures, the group was still largely the same al-Qaeda-aligned group it was, back when it was known as al-Nusra. Lebanese researcher Muhammad Alloush said that the goal of forming Tahrir al-Sham was to unite all groups with al-Qaeda's extreme ideology under one banner, and to obtain as many weapons as possible.\n\nIn July, 2017, according to a pro-government blog, the organization published an infographic showing some of its objectives. Among them were; \"rejection of secularism and democracy\", \"establishment of an Islamic state\", \"rule by the Islamic scholars based on the sharia law\" and \"rejection of political rapprochement with the criminal regime (i.e. Syrian government)\".\n\nThe ECHO Research Centre at Laurentian University conducted an opinion poll on 4,858 residents in several areas of Syria between 10 July 2017 and 28 July 2017. According to the poll's results, 77% of those surveyed disagreed with the Salafist ideology Tahrir al-Sham and other Salafist groups promote in Idlib, 73% rejected HTS-affiliated local councils in Idlib, 66% agreed that HTS is part of al-Qaeda in Syria, and 63% claimed that the dominance of HTS in Idlib will lead to a \"second Tora Bora\". Of those who participated in the poll, nearly all of them (close to 100%) considered HTS to be contrary to the goals of the Syrian opposition, although they were split in its extent. 51% of them considered HTS to be contrary to the opposition since its inception, 42% considered HTS to be previously consistent with the opposition, but is no longer so, and 7% considered HTS to be a counter-revolutionary organization.\n\nThe groups in \"italic\" are defectors from Ahrar al-Sham which either left to join Jabhat Fateh al-Sham in the last few days of its existence, or joined its successor group Tahrir al-Sham.\n\nDisclaimer\n\n\"This list is based on official announcements by Tahrir al-Sham and may not necessarily express the full extent of allegiances to the group. These groups may or may not become independent in the future; however, effort will be made to accordingly add or remove groups, based on the status given to them by the commanding office of Tahrir al-Sham. This list may not be a full comprehensive list of member groups.\"\n\nSince October 2017, the \"general commander\" or emir of Tahrir al-Sham is Abu Mohammad al-Julani, who is also Tahrir al-Sham's \"military commander\"\nand the emir of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, who also led its predecessor organisation al-Nusra Front, the Syrian branch of al-Qaeda.\n\nPreviously, the general commander of Tahrir al-Sham was Hashim al-Shaykh, also known as Abu Jaber, who was the leader of Ahrar al-Sham between September 2014 and September 2015. On 1 October 2017, Abu Jaber resigned from his position as the general leader of Tahrir al-Sham and was replaced by Abu Mohammad al-Julan. Abu Jaber took another position as the head of HTS's Shura council.\n\nIndividuals in \"italic\" are defectors from Ahrar al-Sham, which either left to join Jabhat Fateh al-Sham in the last few days of its existence, or directly joined Tahrir al-Sham.\n\n\nAyman al-Zawahiri has opposed the split of HTS from Al Qaeda, stating that it was done without his consent. Several Al-Qaeda circles and supporters have also condemned Joulani and compared him to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi because of the group's conflicts with other rebel groups, and have described him as an 'opportunist' as well as making claims that he is an agent of foreign powers.\n\nAccording to Abdul Razzaq al-Mahdi, who was a leading scholar in Tahrir al-Sham, the groups do not particularly hate one another in the political or social battlefield. Certain members, however, do believe that a war between the two would be possible, since Ahrar al-Sham's attendance at the Astana talks labels it as a \"moderate\" faction, often seen as blasphemy within groups such as Tahrir al-Sham.\n\nIn February 2018 Ahrar al-Sham and the Nour al-Din al-Zenki Movement merged and formed the Syrian Liberation Front then launched an offensive against Tahrir al-Sham seizing several villages and the city of Maarrat al-Nu'man.\n\nMost of the international community considers Tahrir al-Sham to be a terrorist organisation. The US embassy in Syria confirmed on May 2017 that HTS had been designated a terrorist organization in March 2017. The United States Ambassador to Syria stated that \"HTS is a merger and any group that merges into it becomes part of al-Qaeda's Syrian network.\" and \"the core of HTS is Nusra, a designated terrorist organization. This designation applies regardless of what name it uses or what groups merge into it.\"\n\nCanada designated Tahrir al-Sham as a terrorist organization on 23 May 2018.\n\nIn August 2018, Turkey designated Tahrir al-Sham as a terrorist organization.\n\nIran's government has \"accused Qatar and Saudi Arabia of supporting Tahrir al-Sham.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3288399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3288399", "title": "The Ant Bully", "text": "The Ant Bully\n\nThe Ant Bully () is a 1999 children's book drawn and written by John Nickle. It is about a young boy named Lucas Nickle (also known as Peanut the Destroyer), who is the title character in the book and who likes to torment ants. It was later adapted into a computer-animated film of the same name by John A. Davis, produced by Legendary Pictures and DNA Productions for Warner Bros. Pictures.\n\nLucas is a boy who is perceived as \"strange\" by his peers due to his funny glasses and propeller beanie (hat). Sid, the neighborhood bully, continuously bullies Lucas by spraying him with a water hose and stealing his hat. In an attempt to cope with Sid's actions, Lucas projects his anger onto a local colony of ants by spraying them with water, just as Sid has done to him.\n\nThe ants have enough and tackle and shove Lucas into the queen's chamber, and the queen confronts him about all of the trouble he has caused the colony. When Lucas is too shocked to even respond to her, the queen takes it as an insult, and orders an ant wizard to shrink the boy down to the size of an ant and take him to trial, where the judge declares him guilty. His punishment is to work hard like an ant, working in the field, gathering food, defending the colony from wasps and spiders, and taking care of the queen, the worst part of his punishment.\n\nAfter a while, the queen tells Lucas that he has one last test to be set free: he must go home and bring her a Red Sweet Rock (jelly bean). Lucas brings two ants with him on the journey, and they ask him what it's like being a giant. Lucas tells them that he isn't a giant and gets picked on by Sid, who does all the same things Lucas does to the ants. When they reach his house, they find a box of swell jells, but Lucas's father sees the ants and tries to smash them with a fly swatter. Lucas shouts at his dad to stop, helping the ants to escape. Meanwhile, the queen is upset, fearing that Lucas was killed, but to her surprise he returns, and as promised she gives him the potion to return him to his right size. Lucas falls asleep and wakes up to see Sid, only to his surprise the ants got to him first and shrunk him as revenge.\n\n"}
