{"id": "38344390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38344390", "title": "1957 in philosophy", "text": "1957 in philosophy\n\n1957 in philosophy\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146607", "title": "Al-Ghazali", "text": "Al-Ghazali\n\nAl-Ghazali (; full name \"Abū Ḥāmid Muḥammad ibn Muḥammad al-Ghazālī\" ; latinized Algazelus or Algazel, – 19 December 1111) was one of the most prominent and influential philosophers, theologians, jurists, and mystics of Sunni Islam. He was of Persian origin.\n\nIslamic tradition considers him to be a Mujaddid, a renewer of the faith who, according to the prophetic hadith, appears once every century to restore the faith of the ummah (\"the Islamic Community\"). His works were so highly acclaimed by his contemporaries that al-Ghazali was awarded the honorific title \"Proof of Islam\" (\"Hujjat al-Islam\").\n\nAl-Ghazali believed that the Islamic spiritual tradition had become moribund and that the spiritual sciences taught by the first generation of Muslims had been forgotten. That resulted in his writing his magnum opus entitled \"Ihya 'ulum al-din\" (\"The Revival of the Religious Sciences\"). Among his other works, the \"Tahāfut al-Falāsifa\" (\"Incoherence of the Philosophers\") is a significant landmark in the history of philosophy, as it advances the critique of Aristotelian science developed later in 14th-century Europe.\n\nThe believed date of al-Ghazali's birth, as given by Ibn al-Jawzi, is AH 450 (1058/9).\nModern estimates place it at AH 448 (1056/7), on the basis of certain statements in al-Ghazali's correspondence and autobiography. He was a Muslim scholar, law specialist, rationalist, and spiritualist of Persian descent. He was born in Tabaran, a town in the district of Tus, Khorasan (now part of Iran). A posthumous tradition, the authenticity of which has been questioned in recent scholarship, is that his father, a man \"of Persian descent,\" died in poverty and left the young al-Ghazali and his brother Ahmad to the care of a Sufi. Al-Ghazali's contemporary and first biographer, 'Abd al-Ghafir al-Farisi, records merely that al-Ghazali began to receive instruction in \"fiqh\" (Islamic jurisprudence) from Ahmad al-Radhakani, a local teacher.\n\nHe later studied under al-Juwayni, the distinguished jurist and theologian and \"the most outstanding Muslim scholar of his time,\" in Nishapur, perhaps after a period of study in Gurgan. After al-Juwayni's death in 1085, al-Ghazali departed from Nishapur and joined the court of Nizam al-Mulk, the powerful vizier of the Seljuq sultans, which was likely centered in Isfahan. After bestowing upon him the titles of \"Brilliance of the Religion\" and \"Eminence among the Religious Leaders,\" Nizam al-Mulk advanced al-Ghazali in July 1091 to the \"most prestigious and most challenging\" professorial at the time: in the Nizamiyya madrasa in Baghdad.\n\nHe underwent a spiritual crisis in 1095, abandoned his career and left Baghdad on the pretext of going on pilgrimage to Mecca. Making arrangements for his family, he disposed of his wealth and adopted an ascetic lifestyle. According to biographer Duncan B. Macdonald, the purpose of abstaining from scholastic work was to confront the spiritual experience and more ordinary understanding of \"the Word and the Traditions.\" After some time in Damascus and Jerusalem, with a visit to Medina and Mecca in 1096, he returned to Tus to spend the next several years in \"'uzla\" (seclusion). The seclusion consisted in abstaining from teaching at state-sponsored institutions, but he continued to publish, receive visitors and teach in the zawiya (private madrasa) and khanqah (Sufi monastery) that he had built.\n\nFakhr al-Mulk, grand vizier to Ahmad Sanjar, pressed al-Ghazali to return to the Nizamiyya in Nishapur. Al-Ghazali reluctantly capitulated in 1106, fearing rightly that he and his teachings would meet with resistance and controversy. He later returned to Tus and declined an invitation in 1110 from the grand vizier of the Seljuq Sultan Muhammad I to return to Baghdad. He died on 19 December 1111. According to 'Abd al-Ghafir al-Farisi, he had several daughters but no sons.\n\nDuring his life, he authored over 70 books on science, Islamic reasoning and Sufism. Al-Ghazali distributed his book \"The Incoherence of Philosophers\", set apart as the defining moment in Islamic epistemology. The experience that he had with suspicion drove al-Ghazali to shape a conviction that all occasions and connections are not the result of material conjunctions but are the present and prompt will of God.\n\nAnother of al-Ghazali's most prestigious works is \"Ihya' Ulum al-Din\" (\"The Revival of Religious Sciences\"). The work covers all fields of Islamic science and incorporates Islamic statute, philosophy and Sufism. It had numerous positive reactions, and Al-Ghazali at that point composed a condensed form in Persian under the title \"Kimiya-yi sa'adat\" (\"The Alchemy of Happiness\"). Although al-Ghazali said that he has composed more than 70 books, attributed to him are more than 400 books.\n\nThe golden rule (\"do unto others as you would have them do unto you\") has become an important focal point in modern interfaith dialogue with Muslims. As an ethical concept, it can be transferred more or less intact between different religions and philosophies, with or without the authority of scripture. Interfaith efforts with Muslims by examining the use of the golden rule in the works of Al-Ghazali. One is one of the most influential and popular of the classical scholars of Islam, his impact and appreciation is felt in the East and West. He applies the golden rule in various formulations as an axis around which great themes of religion are surrounded: God, purity of heart, justice, compassion, altruistic love, goodwill, human brotherhood and neighborliness.\n\nAl-Ghazali impacted both Muslim and Christian medieval scholars. A standout amongst the most affected was Saint Thomas Aquinas.\n\nAl-Ghazali likewise assumed a noteworthy part in spreading Sufism and Sharia. He was the first to consolidate the ideas of Sufism into Sharia laws and the first to give a formal depiction of Sufism in his works. His works fortify the position of Sunni Islam, contrasted with different schools of thought.\n\nAl-Ghazali contributed significantly to the development of a systematic view of Sufism and its integration and acceptance in mainstream Islam. As a scholar of orthodox Islam, he belonged to the Shafi'i school of Islamic jurisprudence and to the Asharite school of theology. Al-Ghazali received many titles such as \"Sharaf-ul-Aʾimma\" (), \"Zayn-ud-dīn\" () and \"Ḥujjat-ul-Islām\" ().\n\nHe is viewed as the key member of the influential Asharite school of early Muslim philosophy and the most important refuter of the Mutazilites. However, he chose a slightly-different position in comparison with the Asharites. His beliefs and thoughts differ in some aspects from the orthodox Asharite school.\n\nA total of about 60 works can be attributed to Al-Ghazali.\n\nHis 11th century book titled \"The Incoherence of the Philosophers\" marks a major turn in Islamic epistemology. The encounter with skepticism led al-Ghazali to embrace a form of theological occasionalism, or the belief that all causal events and interactions are not the product of material conjunctions but rather the immediate and present Will of God.\n\nIn the next century, Averroes drafted a lengthy rebuttal of al-Ghazali's \"Incoherence\" entitled \"The Incoherence of the Incoherence\"; however, the epistemological course of Islamic thought had already been set. Al-Ghazali gave as an example of the illusion of independent laws of cause the fact that cotton burns when coming into contact with fire. While it might seem as though a natural law was at work, it happened each and every time only because God willed it to happen—the event was \"a direct product of divine intervention as any more attention grabbing miracle\". Averroes, by contrast insisted while God created the natural law, humans \"could more usefully say that fire cause cotton to burn—because creation had a pattern that they could discern.\"\nThe \"Incoherence\" also marked a turning point in Islamic philosophy in its vehement rejections of Aristotle and Plato. The book took aim at the \"falasifa\", a loosely defined group of Islamic philosophers from the 8th through the 11th centuries (most notable among them Avicenna and Al-Farabi) who drew intellectually upon the Ancient Greeks.\n\nThis long-held argument has been criticized. \nGeorge Saliba in 2007 argued that the decline of science in the 11th century has been overstated, pointing to continuing advances, particularly in astronomy, as late as the 14th century.\nOn the other hand, Hassan Hassan in 2012 argued that while indeed scientific thought in Islam was stifled in the 11th century, the person mostly to blame is not Al-Ghazali but Nizam al-Mulk.\n\nThe autobiography al-Ghazali wrote towards the end of his life, \"Deliverance From Error\" ( \"al-munqidh min al-ḍalāl\") is considered a work of major importance. In it, al-Ghazali recounts how, once a crisis of epistemological skepticism was resolved by \"a light which God Most High cast into my breast ... the key to most knowledge,\" he studied and mastered the arguments of kalam, Islamic philosophy, and Ismailism. Though appreciating what was valid in the first two of these, at least, he determined that all three approaches were inadequate and found ultimate value only in the mystical experience and insight (the state of prophecy or \"nubuwwa\") he attained as a result of following Sufi practices. William James, in \"Varieties of Religious Experience\", considered the autobiography an important document for \"the purely literary student who would like to become acquainted with the inwardness of religions other than the Christian\" because of the scarcity of recorded personal religious confessions and autobiographical literature from this period outside the Christian tradition.\n\nAnother of al-Ghazali's major works is \"Ihya' Ulum al-Din\" or \"Ihya'u Ulumiddin\" (\"The Revival of Religious Sciences\"). It covers almost all fields of Islamic sciences: fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence), kalam (theology) and sufism.\n\nIt contains four major sections: \"Acts of worship\" (Rub' al-'ibadat), \"Norms of Daily Life\" (Rub' al-'adatat), \"The ways to Perdition\" (Rub' al-muhlikat) and \"The Ways to Salvation\" (Rub' al-munjiyat). The \"Ihya\" became the most frequently recited Islamic text after the Qur'an and the hadith. Its great achievement was to bring orthodox Sunni theology and Sufi mysticism together in a useful, comprehensive guide to every aspect of Muslim life and death. The book was well received by Islamic scholars such as Nawawi who stated that: \"Were the books of Islam all to be lost, excepting only the Ihya', it would suffice to replace them all.\"\n\nGhazali rewrote \"The Revival of Religious Sciences\" in Persian to reach a larger audience; he published this book under the name \"The Alchemy of Happiness\".\n\nThe Alchemy of Happiness\"The Alchemy of Happiness\" is a rewritten version of \" The Revival of the Religious Sciences.\" After the existential crisis that caused him to completely re-examine his way of living and his approach to religion, Al-Ghazali put together \"The Alchemy of Happiness\" to reassert his fundamental belief that a connection to God was an integral part of the joy of living. The book is broken into four different sections. The first of these is Knowledge of Self\",\" where Al-Ghazali asserts that while food, sex, and other indulgences might slake humans appetites temporarily, they in turn make a human into an animal, and therefore will never give true happiness and fulfillment. In order to find oneself, people must devote themselves to God by showing restraint and discipline rather than gluttony of the senses \".\" The second installment is called Knowledge of God, where Al-Ghazali states that the events that occur during one’s life are meant to point an indivudal towards God, and that God will always be strong, no matter how far humans deviate from his will\".\" The third section of \"The Alchemy of Happiness\" is Knowledge of the World. Here he states that the world is merely a place where humans learn to love God, and prepare for the future, or the afterlife, the nature of which will be determined by our actions in this phase of our journey to happiness\".\" The final section is Knowledge of the Future World, which details how there are two types of spirits within a man: the angelic spirit and the animal spirit. Al-Ghazali details the types of spiritual tortures unbelievers experience, as well as the path that must be taken in order to attain spiritual enlightenment\".\" This book serves as a culmination of the transformation Ghazali goes through during his spiritual awakening.\n\nDisciplining the Soul\n\nOne of the key sections of Ghazali’s \"Revival of the Religious Sciences\" is \"Disciplining the Soul\", which focuses on the internal struggles that every Muslim will face over the course of his lifetime. The first chapter primarily focuses on how one can develop himself into a person with positive attributes and good personal characteristics . The second chapter has a more specific focus: sexual satisfaction and gluttony. Here, Ghazali states that indeed every man has these desires and needs, and that it is natural to want these things. However, the Prophet explicitly states that there must be a middle ground for man, in order to practice the tenants of Islam faithfully . The ultimate goal that Ghazali is presenting not only in these two chapters, but in the entirety of \"The\" \"Revival of the Religious Sciences\", is that there must be moderation in every aspect of the soul of a man, an equilibrium. These two chapters were the 22nd and 23rd chapters, respectively, in Ghazali’s \"Revival of the Religious Sciences\"\".\" It’s also important to note here that Ghazali draws from Greek as well as Islamic philosophy in crafting this literary staple, even though much of \"The Incoherence of the Philosophers,\" his most well known work, takes a critical aim at their perspective.\n\nThe Eternity of the World\n\nAl-Ghazali crafted his rebuttal of the Aristotelian viewpoint on the creation of the world in \"The Eternity of the World .\" Al-Ghazali essentially formulates two main arguments for what he views as a sacrilegious thought process. Central to the Aristotelian approach is the concept that motion will always precede motion, or in other words, a force will always create another force, and therefore for a force to be created, another force must act upon that force. This means that in essence time stretches infinitely both into the future and into the past, which therefore proves that God did not create the universe at one specific point in time. Ghazali counters this by first stating that if the world was created with exact boundaries, then in its current form there would be no need for a time before the creation of the world by God. The second argument Ghazali makes is that because humans can only imagine the time before the creation of the world, and your imagination is a fictional thing, that all the time before the world was created is fictional as well, and therefore does not matter as it was not intended by God to be understood by humans \".\" Although these proofs would go on to be disproved by individuals such as Sir Isaac Newton (Laws of Motion)\",\" The \"Eternity of the World\" would have a major impact on the beliefs of Muslim scholars and philosophers up to the present day.\n\nThe Decisive Criterion for Distinguishing Islam from Clandestine Unbelief\n\nAl-Ghazali lays out in \"The\" \"Decisive Criterion for Distinguishing Islam from Clandestine Unbelief\" his approach to Muslim orthodoxy. Ghazali veers from the often hardline stance of many of his contemporaries during this time period and states that as long as one believes in the Prophet Muhammad and God himself, there are many different ways to practice Islam and that any of the many traditions practiced in good faith by believers should not be viewed as heretical by other Muslims. While Ghazali does state that any Muslim practicing Islam in good faith is not guilty of apostasy, he does outline in \"The Criterion\" that there is one standard of Islam that is more correct than the others, and that those practicing the faith incorrectly should be moved to change. In Ghazali’s view, only the Prophet himself could deem a faithfully practicing Muslim an infidel, and his work was a pushback against the religious persecution and strife that occurred often during this time period between various Islamic sects.\n\nAl-Ghazali wrote most of his works in Arabic and few in Persian. His most important Persian work is \"Kīmyāyé Sa'ādat\" (The Alchemy of Happiness). It is al-Ghazali's own Persian version of \"Ihya'ul ulumuddin\" (The Revival of Religious Sciences) in Arabic, but a shorter work. It is one of the outstanding works of 11th-century-Persian literature. The book was published several times in Tehran by the edition of Hussain Khadev-jam, a renowned Iranian scholar. It is translated to English, Arabic, Turkish, Urdu, Azerbaijani and other languages.\n\nApart from Kimya, the most celebrated of al-Ghazali's works in Persian is \"'Nasīhatul Mulūk\" (The Counseling Kings), written most probably for Sultan Ahmad Sanjar ibn Malekshah. In the edition published by Jalāluddīn Humāyī, the book consists of two parts of which only the first can reliably be attributed to al-Ghazali. The language and the contents of some passages are similar to the Kimyaye Sa'adat. The second part differs considerably in content and style from the well-known writings of al-Ghazali. It contains the stories of pre-Islamic kings of Persia, especially those of Anoshervān. Nasihatul Muluk was early translated to Arabic under the title \" al-Tibr al-masbuk fi nasihat al-muluk\" (The Forged Sword in Counseling Kings).\n\n\"Zād-e Ākherat\" (Provision for the hereafter) is an important Persian book of al-Ghazali but gained less scholarly attention. The greater part of it consists of the Persian translation of one of his Arabic books, \"Bedāyat al-Hedāya\" (Beginning of Guidance). It contains in addition the same contents as the Kīmyāyé Sa'ādat. The book was most probably written during the last years of his life. Its manuscripts are in Kabul (Library of the Department of Press) and in Leiden.\n\nPand-nāma (Book of Counsel) is another book of advice and probably attributed to Sultan Sanjar. The introduction to the book relates that Al-Ghazali wrote the book in response to a certain king who had asked him for advice. Ay farzand (O son!) is a short book of counsel that al-Ghazali wrote for one of his students. The book was early translated to Arabic entitled \"ayyuhal walad\". Another Persian work is Hamāqāti ahli ibāhat or Raddi ebāhīyya (Condemnation of antinomians) which is his \"fatwa\" in Persian illustrated with Quranic verses and Hadiths.\n\nFaza'ilul al-anam min rasa'ili hujjat al-Islam is the collection of letters in Persian that al-Ghazali wrote in response to the kings, ministers, jurists and some of his friends after he returned to Khorasan. The collection was gathered by one of his grandchildren after his death, under five sections/chapters. The longest letter is the response to objections raised against some of his statements in \"Mishkat al-Anwar\" (The Niche of Light) and \"al-Munqidh min al-dalal\" (Rescuer from Error). The first letter is the one which al-Ghazali wrote to Sultan Sanjar presenting his excuse for teaching in Nizamiyya of Nishapur; followed by al-Ghazali's speech in the court of Sultan Sanjar. Al-Ghazali makes an impressive speech when he was taken to the king's court in Nishapur in 1106, giving very influential counsels, asking the sultan once again for excusing him from teaching in Nizamiyya. The sultan was so impressed that he ordered al-Ghazali to write down his speech so that it will be sent to all the ulemas of Khorasan and Iraq.\n\nAl-Ghazali had an important influence on both later Muslim philosophers and Christian medieval philosophers. Margaret Smith writes in her book \"Al-Ghazali: The Mystic\" (London 1944): \"There can be no doubt that al-Ghazali’s works would be among the first to attract the attention of these European scholars\" (page 220). Then she emphasizes, \"The greatest of these Christian writers who was influenced by al-Ghazali was St. Thomas Aquinas (1225–1274), who made a study of the Arabic writers and admitted his indebtedness to them, having studied at the University of Naples where the influence of Arab literature and culture was predominant at the time.\" In addition, Aquinas' interest in Islamic studies could be attributed to the infiltration of ‘Latin Averroism’ in the 13th century, especially at the University of Paris.\n\nThe period following Ghazali \"has tentatively been called the Golden Age of Arabic philosophy\" initiated by Ghazali's successful integration of logic into the Islamic seminary Madrasah curriculum.\n\nAl-Ghazali also played a major role in integrating Sufism with Shariah. He was also the first to present a formal description of Sufism in his works. His works also strengthened the status of Sunni Islam against other schools. The Batinite (Ismailism) had emerged in Persian territories and were gaining more and more power during al-Ghazali's period, as Nizam al-Mulk was assassinated by the members of Ismailis. Al-Ghazali strongly rejected their ideology and wrote several books on criticism of Baatinyas which significantly weakened their status.\n\nAl-Ghazali succeeded in gaining widespread acceptance for Sufism at the expense of philosophy. At the same time, in his refutation of philosophers he made use of their philosophical categories and thus helped to give them wider circulation.\n\nHis influences and impact on Sufism and Islam during the 11th century has been a subject of debate in contemporary times. Some fifty works that he had written is evidenced that he was one of the most important Islamic thinkers of his time. Three of his works, Ihaya' Ulum ad-Din (Revival of Religious Sciences), Tahafut al-Falasifa (The Incoherence of Philosophers), and al-Muniqidh min a-alal (Al-Ghazali's Path to Sufism: His Deliverance from Error) are still widely read and circulated among Islamic scholars today. After the death of Al-Ghazali, it is believed there followed a long era in which there was a notable absence of Islamic philosophers, contributing to the status of Ghazali in the modern era. The staple of his religious philosophy was arguing that the creator was the center point of all human life that played a direct role in all world affairs. Al-Ghazali's influence was not limited to Islam, but in fact his works were widely circulated among Christian and Hebrew scholars and philosophers. Some of the more notable philosophers and scholars in the west include David Hume, Dante, and St. Thomas Aquinas. Moses Ben Maimon, a Jewish theologian was deeply interested and vested in the works of Al-Ghazali. One of the more notable achievements of Ghazali were his writing and reform of education that laid the path of Islamic Education from the 12th to the 19th centuries CE. Al-Ghazali's works were heavily relied upon by Islamic mathematicians and astronomers such as At-Tusi.\n\nEarly childhood development was a central focal point of Al-Ghazali. He worked to influence and develop a program to mold the young minds of children at an early age to develop their mind and character. He stressed that socialization, family, and schools were central in the achievement of language, morality, and behavior. He emphasized incorporating physical fitness such as games that were important in the development of young minds to attract the idea of attending schools and maintaining an education. In addition, he stressed the importance of understanding and sharing cultures in the classrooms to achieve a civic harmony that would be expressed outside the classroom and kindness to one another. In his writings he placed this responsibility upon the teachers. His treatise on early education centered on Islamic laws, God, and memorizing the Qur'an to achieve literary skill. Ghazali emphasized the importance that there should be a dual respect in regard to the teacher and the pupil. Whereas the teacher guides the student and takes the role of a father figure and offers council to the student, and the student respects the teacher as a patriarch. He stressed that the teacher needed to pay attention to the learning paces of his students so that he could help them be successful in academic achievements.\n\nAl-Ghazali was by every indication of his writings a true mystic in the Persian sense. He believed himself to be more mystical or religious that he was philosophical however, he is more widely regarded by some scholars as a leading figure of Islamic philosophy and thought. He describes his philosophical approach as a seeker of true knowledge, a deeper understanding of the philosophical and scientific, and a better understanding of mysticism and cognition. In the contemporary world, Al-Ghazali is renowned not only for his contribution to Sufism, Islam, Philosophy, or education. But his work and ethical approach transcends another boundary into the Islamic business practice. In the \"Journal of Business Ethics\", authors Yusif Sidani and Akram Al Ariss explain how Islamic business ethics are governed by the writings of Abu-Hamid Al-Ghazali and even posit that Al-Ghazali is the greatest Muslim since the prophet Muhammad. Traditional Islamist's are influenced by Ghazali's writings since he was indebted to writing about and incorporating Sharia Law. They emphasize, \"His mastery of philosophical logic and reasoning earned him the title of philosopher without losing his status as a religious scholar.\" Al-Ghazili's reasoning on the use of intellect in combination with the rational and spiritual is an integral part of Muslim society today. Therefore, they approach the business perspective with the same ideology and organizational thought.\n\nAl-Ghazali mentioned the number of his works \"more than 70\" in one of his letters to Sultan Sanjar in the late years of his life.\nSome \"five dozen\" are plausibly identifiable, and several hundred attributed works, many of them duplicates because of varying titles, are doubtful or spurious.\n\nThe tradition of falsely attributing works to Al-Ghazali increased in the 13th century, after the dissemination of the large corpus of works by Ibn Arabi.\nBibliographies have been published by William Montgomery Watt (\"The works attributed to Al-Ghazali\"), Maurice Bouyges (\"Essai de chronologie des oeuvres d'Al-Ghazali\") and others.\n\nAbdel Rahman Badawi prepared a comprehensive bibliography of all works attributed to Al-Ghazali with a total of 457 entries:\n\nThe following is a short list of his major works:\n\nTheology\n\nSufism\n\nPhilosophy\n\nJurisprudence\n\nAccording to William Montgomery Watt, Al-Ghazali considered himself to be the Mujaddid (\"Revivier\") of his age. Many, perhaps most, later Muslims concurred and, according to Watt, some have even considered him to be the greatest Muslim after Muhammad.\n\nAs an example, the Islamic scholar al-Safadi stated: \n\nand the jurist, al-Yafi'i stated:\n\nThe Shafi'i jurist al-Subki stated:\n\nAlso a widely-considered Sunni scholar, Al Dhahabi in, his praise of Al Ghazali, wrote: “Al-Ghazzaali, the imaam and shaykh, the prominent scholar, Hujjat al-Islam, the wonder of his time, Zayn al-Deen Abu Haamid Muhammad ibn Muhammad ibn Muhammad ibn Ahmad al-Toosi al-Shaafa’i al-Ghazzaali, the author of many books and one possessed of utter intelligence. He studied fiqh in his own town, then he moved to Nisapur in the company of a group of students. He stayed with the Imaam al-Haramayn and gained a deep knowledge of fiqh within a short period. He became well-versed in ‘ilm al-kalaam and debate, until he became the best of debater.”\n\nIbn Rushd (Averroes), a rationalist, famously responded that \"to say that philosophers are incoherent is itself to make an incoherent statement.\" Rushd's book, \"The Incoherence of the Incoherence\", attempted to refute al-Ghazali's views, but the work was not well received in the Muslim community.\n\nAccording to Firas Alkhateeb, \"When one reads Imam al-Ghazali’s works at a very superficial level, one can easily misunderstand what he is saying as anti-scientific in general. The truth, however, is that al-Ghazali’s only warning to students is to not fully accept all the beliefs and ideas of a scholar simply because of his achievements in mathematics and science. By issuing such a warning, al-Ghazali is in fact protecting the scientific enterprise for future generations by insulating it from being mixed with theoretical philosophy that could eventually dilute science itself to a field based on conjecture and reasoning alone.\"\n\nAl-Ghazali was commonly accused by Orientalist scholars of causing a decline in scientific advancement in Islam because of his refutation of the new philosophies of his time. He believed he saw danger in the statements made by philosophers that suggested that God was not all-knowing or even non-existent, which strongly contradicted his orthodox Islamic belief. He is known today for his role in protecting the traditional Islamic beliefs of the Muslim culture. His contributions played a role in the revival of the Islamic faith as taught by the prophet Muhammad before him, despite the challenges presented by philosophy during his time.\n\nMost aspects of Al-Ghazali's life were heavily influenced by his Islamic beliefs, and his economic philosophy was no exception. He held economic activity to a very high level of importance in his life and thought that others should as well, as he felt that it was not only necessary for the overall benefit to society but also to achieve spiritual wholeness and salvation. In his view, the worldly life of humanity depended on the economic activity of people and so he considered being economically active to be a mandated part of the Sharia law.\n\nHe established three goals of economic activity that he believed were part of one's religious obligation as well as beneficial to the individual: \"achievement of self-sufficiency for one's survival; provision for the well-being of one's progeny; and provision for assisting those in economic need.\" He argued that subsistence living, or living in a way that provides the basic necessities for only one's family, would not be an acceptable practice to be held by the general population because of the detrimental results that he believed that would bring upon the economy, but he acknowledged that some people may choose to live the subsistence lifestyle at their own will for the sake of their personal religious journey. Conversely, he discouraged people from purchasing or possessing excessive material items, suggesting that any additional money earned could be given to provide for the poor.\n\nAl-Ghazali thought that it should not be necessary to force equality of income in society but that people should be driven by \"the spirit of Islamic brotherhood\" to share their wealth willingly, but he recognized that it is not always the case. He believed that wealth earned could be used in two potential manners. One is for good, such as maintaining the health of oneself and their family as well as taking care of others and any other actions seen as positive for the Islamic community. The other is what Al-Ghazali would consider misuse, spending it selfishly on extravagant or unnecessary material items.\n\nIn terms of trade, Al-Ghazali discussed the necessity of exchanging goods across close cities as well as larger borders because it allows more goods, which may be necessary and not yet available, to be accessible to more people in various locations. He recognized the necessity of trade and its overall beneficial effect on the economy, but making money in that way might not be considered the most virtuous in his beliefs. He did not support people taking \"excessive\" profits from their trade sales.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14202370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14202370", "title": "Alberto Marvelli", "text": "Alberto Marvelli\n\nAlberto Marvelli (21 March 1918 – 5 October 1946) was an Italian Roman Catholic and a member from the Catholic Action movement. He became noted for his defense of the poor and for selflessness during World War II in tending to the homeless and wounded despite the devastating air raids while placing himself at risk in doing so. Marvelli also saved numerous people from deportation since he would free them from sealed train carriages before the train would set off. Marvelli likewise was an active champion for social justice and was known for providing his own possessions to the poor and homeless more so during the harsh winter periods. He served as a town councilor for sometime after the war and aided in restoration efforts though died before an election as a Christian Democrat candidate in an accident.\n\nMarvelli's reputation for holiness and for his faith led to the cause for his beatification being introduced and Pope John Paul II beatified Marvelli in 2004 in Loreto.\n\nAlberto Marvelli was born on 21 March 1918 in Ferrara as the second of six children to Luigi Marvelli (who worked in a bank) and Maria Mayr.\n\nIn his childhood he was known for being a thoughtful and reserved individual though with an enthusiastic willingness to aid other people. His mother - who involved herself in charities - was a special influence on his religious formation and often invited the poor to their home. The Marvelli's later moved to Rimini in June 1930. In Rimini he attended the Salesian \"oratorio\" school and was involved with the Catholic Action group in his parish since he was twelve. One childhood friend of his was the filmmaker Federico Fellini; he loved all kinds of sports and had a special love for bike riding. Marvelli's father died on 7 March 1933 which was unexpected and left Maria to take care of her children. It was some months later in October that he began to keep a spiritual journal. In 1936 - aged eighteen - Marvelli was elected as the president of the Italian branch of the Catholic Action movement. He continued his studies at the college in Bologna where he graduated in June 1941 with a degree in engineering and began working with Fiat in Turin. He left soon after for mandated service with the armed forces in Trieste but was exempted from it after a few months because two of his brothers were in service. It was not long after this that he began teaching in a high school.\n\nThroughout World War II he continued to serve to poor at great personal cost and risk to himself. The Marvelli's were forced to move to Vergiano - seven kilometres from Rimini - because of the devastating air raids. Despite the risk to his own life he would - after each bombing - go back to Rimini to help the wounded and the homeless. He is known to have given even his bike and the shoes off his feet to those most in need. He also gave out food to them as well as mattresses and blankets for their comfort. During the German occupation he saved numerous people from deportation to the concentration camps and he freed them from the sealed carriages of the trains that were prepared to leave the station at Santarcangelo.\n\nOnce the war had ended the interim authorities entrusted to Marvelli the task of housing allocation and he proved an able administrator while being appointed to the town council some months later. He opened a soup kitchen for the poor where he himself served and as co-founder of Italian Workers' Catholic Action formed a cooperative for construction workers. He agreed to run in elections as a candidate for the Christian Democrats around this point but died before the elections; people still voted for him though his mother took his place in this venture. In 1945 he joined Luigi Gedda's \"Società Operaia\".\n\nMarvelli was killed in the evening on 5 October 1946 when a van belonging to the armed forces struck him on a dark road as he rode his bike as he travelled to a polling station for an election meeting. His remains now rest in the San Agostino church in Rimini in a decorated tomb. His remains have been there since 1 March 1968. The then-Prelate of Loreto Angelo Comastri spoke with Vatican Radio and said that \"one can be in politics and be a saint\" as demonstrated from Marvelli's life while also highlighting that he \"left a sign of cleanness\" that is often unseen in the political sector.\n\nMarvelli's beatification cause opened under Pope Paul VI on 16 January 1975 after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints issued the official edict of \"nihil obstat\" (nothing against the cause) and titled Marvelli as a Servant of God. The conditional process of investigation was held in Rimini from 13 July 1975 until its successful closure on 17 August 1976 while the C.C.S. validated the investigation on 29 May 1981 in Rome. The postulation (officials in charge of the cause) compiled and submitted the Positio dossier to the C.C.S. for their evaluation in 1983 with theologians approving it on 23 October 1985 and the C.C.S. themselves approving it as well on 4 February 1986. Marvelli was declared to be Venerable on 22 March 1986 after Pope John Paul II confirmed that Marvelli had lived a life of model heroic virtue.\n\nThe miracle for his beatification was investigated in the Bologna archdiocese in a tribunal that Cardinal Giacomo Biffi opened and closed; the C.C.S. validated the investigation in Rome on 23 January 1998 while medical experts approved the healing to be a miracle on 14 November 2002. Theologians concurred in this decision on 4 March 2003 as did the C.C.S. members on 20 May 2003. John Paul II issued final assent needed for the miracle on 7 July 2003 and beatified Marvelli in Loreto on 5 September 2004.\n\nThe miracle that led to his beatification was the healing from an aggressive hernia of a doctor from Bologna in August 1991 named Tito Malfatti. 250 000 people attended the beatification celebration.\n\nThe current postulator for the cause is the Redemptorist priest Antonio Marazzo and the current vice-postulator is Monsignor Fausto Lanfranchi.\n\n"}
{"id": "24102615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24102615", "title": "Antonio López de Santa Anna", "text": "Antonio López de Santa Anna\n\nAntonio de Padua María Severino López de Santa Anna y Pérez de Lebrón (; 21 February 1794 – 21 June 1876), often known as Santa Anna or López de Santa Anna, was a Mexican politician and general who fought to defend royalist New Spain and then for Mexican independence. He greatly influenced early Mexican politics and government, and was an adept soldier and cunning politician, who dominated Mexican history in the first half of the nineteenth century to such an extent that historians often refer to it as the \"Age of Santa Anna\". He was called \"the Man of Destiny\", who \"loomed over his time like a melodramatic colossus, the uncrowned monarch.\" Santa Anna first opposed the movement for Mexican independence from Spain, but then fought in support of it. Though not the first \"caudillo\" (military leader) of modern Mexico, he \"represents the stereotypical caudillo in Mexican history,\" and among the earliest. Conservative historian, intellectual, and politician Lucas Alamán wrote that \"The history of Mexico since 1822 might accurately be called the history of Santa Anna's revolutions... His name plays the major role in all the political events of the country and its destiny has become intertwined with his.\"\n\nAn enigmatic, patriotic and controversial figure, Santa Anna had great power in Mexico; during a turbulent 40-year career, he served as general at crucial points and served twelve non-consecutive presidential terms over a period of 22 years. In the periods of time when he was not serving as president, he continued to pursue his military career. A wealthy landowner, he built a firm political base in the major port city of Veracruz. He was perceived as a hero by his troops; he sought glory for himself and his army, and independent Mexico. He repeatedly rebuilt his reputation after major losses. Historians and many Mexicans also rank him as perhaps the principal inhabitant even today of Mexico's pantheon of \"those who failed the nation.\" His centralist rhetoric and military failures resulted in Mexico losing just over half its territory, beginning with the Texas Revolution of 1836, and culminating with the Mexican Cession of 1848 following its defeat by the United States in the Mexican–American War.\n\nHis political positions changed frequently in his lifetime; \"his opportunistic politics made him a Liberal, Conservative, and uncrowned king.\" He was overthrown for the final time by the liberal Revolution of Ayutla in 1854 and lived most of his later years in exile.\n\nAntonio de Padua María Severino López de Santa Anna y Pérez de Lebrón was born in Xalapa, Veracruz, Nueva España (New Spain), on 21 February 1794. He was from a respected Spanish colonial family; he and his parents, Antonio López de Santa Anna and Manuela Pérez de Lebrón, belonged to the elite \"criollo\" racial group of American-born Spaniards. His father was a royal army officer perpetually in debt, and served for a time as a sub-delegate for the Gulf Coast Spanish province of Veracruz. However, his parents were wealthy enough to send him to school.\n\nIn June 1810, the 16-year-old Santa Anna joined the Fijo de Veracruz infantry regiment as a cadet against the wishes of his parents, who wanted him to pursue a career in commerce. In September 1810, secular cleric Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla rebelled against Spanish rule, sparking a spontaneous mass movement in Mexico's rich agricultural area, the Bajío. The Mexican War of Independence was to last until 1821, and Santa Anna, like most creole military men, fought for the crown against the mixed-raced insurgents for independence. Santa Anna's commanding officer was José Joaquín de Arredondo, who taught him much about dealing with Mexican rebels. In 1811, Santa Anna was wounded in the left hand by an arrow during the campaign under Col. Arredondo in the town of Amoladeras, in the state of San Luis Potosí. In 1813, Santa Anna served in Texas against the Gutiérrez–Magee Expedition, and at the Battle of Medina, in which he was cited for bravery. He was promoted quickly; he became a second lieutenant in February 1812 and first lieutenant before the end of that year. In the aftermath of the rebellion, the young officer witnessed Arredondo's fierce counter-insurgency policy of mass executions.\n\nDuring the next few years, in which the war for independence reached a stalemate, Santa Anna erected villages for displaced citizens near the city of Veracruz. He also pursued gambling, a habit that would follow him all through his life. In 1816, Santa Anna was promoted to captain. He conducted occasional campaigns to suppress Native Americans or to restore order after a tumult had begun.\n\nWhen royalist officer Agustín de Iturbide changed sides in 1821 and allied with insurgent Vicente Guerrero, fighting for independence under the Plan of Iguala, Santa Anna also joined the fight for independence. The changed circumstances in Spain, where liberals had ousted Ferdinand VII and began implementing the Spanish liberal constitution of 1812, made many elites in Mexico reconsider their options. The clergy in New Spain would have lost power under the Spanish liberal regime and new Mexican clerics saw independence as a way to maintain their position in an autonomous Mexico. Santa Anna rose to prominence fighting for independence by quickly driving Spanish forces out of the vital port city of Veracruz and Iturbide rewarded him with the rank of general.\n\nIturbide rewarded Santa Anna with command of the vital port of Veracruz, the gateway from the Gulf of Mexico to the rest of the nation and site of the customs house. However, Iturbide subsequently removed Santa Anna from the post, prompting Santa Anna to rise in rebellion in December 1822 against Iturbide. Santa Anna already had significant power in his home region of Veracruz, and \"he was well along the path to becoming the regional caudillo.\" Santa Anna claimed in his Plan of Veracruz that he rebelled because Iturbide had dissolved the Constituent Congress. He also promised to support free trade with Spain, an important principle for his home region of Veracruz.\n\nAlthough Santa Anna's initial rebellion was important, Iturbide had loyal military men who were able to hold their own against the rebels in Veracruz. However, former insurgent leaders Vicente Guerrero and Nicolás Bravo, who had supported Iturbide's Plan de Iguala, now returned to their southern Mexico base and raised a rebellion against Iturbide. Then the commander of imperial forces in Veracruz, who had fought against the rebels, changed sides and joined the rebels. The new coalition proclaimed the Plan of Casa Mata, which called for the end of the monarchy, restoration of the Constituent Congress, and creation of a republic and a federal system.\n\nSanta Anna was no longer the main player in the movement against Iturbide and the creation of new political arrangements. He sought to regain his position as leader and marched forces from Veracruz to Tampico, then to San Luis Potosí, proclaiming his role as the \"protector of the federation\". San Luis Potosí, and other north-central regions, Michoacán, Querétaro, and Guanajuato met to decide their own position about federation. Santa Anna pledged his military forces to the protection of these key areas. \"He attempted, in other words, to co-opt the movement, the first of many examples in his long career where he placed himself as the head of a generalized movement so it would become an instrument of his advancement.\"\n\nIn May 1823, following Iturbide's March resignation, Santa Anna was sent to command in Yucatán. At the time, Yucatán's capital of Mérida and the port city of Campeche were in conflict. Yucatán's closest trade partner was Cuba, still a Spanish colony. Santa Anna took it upon himself to plan a landing force from Yucatán in Cuba, which he envisioned would result in Cuban colonists welcoming their liberators and most especially Santa Anna. A thousand Mexicans were already on ships to sail to Cuba when word came that the Spanish were reinforcing their colony, so the invasion was called off.\n\nGuadalupe Victoria became the first president of the Mexican republic in 1824, following the creation of the Federalist Mexican Constitution of 1824. Guadalupe Victoria came to the presidency with little factional conflict and he served out his entire four-year term. However, the election of 1828 was quite different, with considerable political conflict in which Santa Anna became involved. Even before the election, there was unrest in Mexico, with some conservatives affiliated with the Scottish Rite Masons plotting rebellion. The so-called Montaño rebellion in December 1827 called for the prohibition of secret societies, implicitly meaning liberal York Rite Masons, and the expulsion of the U.S. minister in Mexico, Joel Roberts Poinsett, a promoter of federal republicanism in Mexico. Although Santa Anna was believed to be a supporter of the Scottish Rite conservatives, in the Montaño rebellion eventually he threw his support to the liberals. In his home state of Veracruz, the governor had thrown his support to the rebels, and in the aftermath of the rebellion's failure, Santa Anna as vice-governor stepped into the governorship.\n\nIn 1828, Santa Anna supported hero of the insurgency, Vicente Guerrero, who was a candidate for the presidency. Another important liberal, Lorenzo de Zavala, also supported Guerrero. Manuel Gómez Pedraza won the indirect elections for the presidency, with Guerrero coming in second. Even before all the votes had been counted in September 1828, Santa Anna rebelled against the election results in support of Guerrero. Santa Anna issued a plan at Perote that called for the nullification of the election results, as well for a new law expelling Spanish nationals from Mexico, believed to be in league with Mexican conservatives. Santa Anna's rebellion initially had few supporters, southern Mexican leader Juan Álvarez joined Santa Anna's rebellion, and Lorenzo de Zavala, governor of the state of Mexico, under threat of arrest by the conservative Senate, fled to the mountains and organized his own rebellion against the federal government. Zavala brought the fighting into the capital, with his supporters seizing an armory, the \"Acordada\". In these circumstances, president-elect Gómez Pedraza resigned and soon after left the country. This cleared the way for Guerrero to become president of Mexico. Santa Anna gained prominence as a national leader in his role to oust Gómez Pedraza and as a defender of federalism and democracy. An explanation for Santa Anna's support of Guerrero is that Gómez Pedraza had been in favor of Santa Anna's proposed invasion of Cuba, if successful, and if not, \"Mexico might rid himself of an undesirable pest, namely Santa Anna.\"\n\nIn 1829, Santa Anna made his mark in the early republic by leading forces that defeated a Spanish invasion to reconquer Mexico. Spain made a final attempt to retake Mexico, invading Tampico with a force of 2,600 soldiers. Santa Anna marched against the Barradas Expedition with a much smaller force and defeated the Spaniards, many of whom were suffering from yellow fever. The defeat of the Spanish army not only increased Santa Anna's popularity, but also consolidated the independence of the new Mexican republic. Santa Anna was declared a hero. From then on, he styled himself \"The Victor of Tampico\" and \"The Savior of the Motherland\". His main act of self-promotion was to call himself \"The Napoleon of the West\".\n\nIn a December 1829 coup, Vice-President Anastasio Bustamante rebelled against President Guerrero, who left the capital to lead a rebellion in southern Mexico. On 1 January 1830, Bustamante took over the presidency. In 1832, a rebellion started against Bustamante, which was intended to install Manuel Gómez Pedraza (who had been elected in 1828 and unseated in a coup that year). The rebels offered the command to Gen. Santa Anna. The capture of Guerrero and his summary trial and execution in 1831 was a shocking event to the nation. The conservatives in power were tainted by the execution.\n\nIn August 1832, Bustamante temporarily appointed Melchor Múzquiz to the post of president. He moved against the rebels and defeated them at Gallinero. Forces from Dolores Hidalgo, Guanajuato, and Puebla marched to meet the forces of Santa Anna, who were approaching the town of Puebla. After two more battles, Bustamante, Gómez Pedraza, and Santa Anna signed the Agreement of Zavaleta (21–23 December 1832) to install Gómez Pedraza as president. Bustamante went into exile. Santa Anna accompanied the new president on 3 January 1833 and joined him in the capital.\n\nSanta Anna was elected president on 1 April 1833, but while he desired the title, he was not interested in governing. \"It annoyed him and bored him, and perhaps frightened him.\" Santa Anna's vice president, liberal Dr. Valentín Gómez Farías took over the responsibility of the governing of the nation. Santa Anna retired to his Veracruz hacienda, Manga de Clavo. Gómez Farías began to implement radical liberal reforms, chiefly directed at the power of the army and the Roman Catholic Church. Such reforms as abolishing tithing as a legal obligation, and the seizure of church property and finances, caused concern among Mexican conservatives. Gómez Farías also sought to extend these reforms to the frontier province of Alta California, promoting legislation to secularize the Franciscan missions there. In 1833 he organized the Híjar-Padrés colony to bolster non-mission civilian settlement. A secondary goal of the colony was to help defend Alta California against perceived Russian colonial ambitions from the trading post at Fort Ross.\n\nFor conservatives, the liberal reform of Gómez Farías was radical and undermined elites' power. Many historians consider Santa Anna's actions in allowing this first reform (followed by a more sweeping one in 1855 with the ouster of Santa Anna) a test case. Santa Anna could be watchful and wait to see the reaction to a comprehensive attack on the special privileges of the army and the Roman Catholic Church (\"fueros\"), as well as confiscation of church wealth. Conservatives sought to reassert power.\n\nIn May 1834, Santa Anna ordered disarmament of the civic militia. He suggested to Congress that they should abolish the controversial \"Ley del Caso\", under which the liberals' opponents had been sent into exile. The Plan of Cuernavaca, published on 25 May 1834, called for repeal of the liberal reforms. On 12 June, Santa Anna dissolved Congress and announced his decision to adopt the Plan of Cuernavaca. Santa Anna formed a new Catholic, centralist, conservative government. In 1835, it replaced the 1824 constitution with the new constitutional document known as the \"Siete Leyes\" (\"The Seven Laws\"). His regime became a dictatorship backed by the military.\n\nSeveral states openly rebelled against the changes: Coahuila y Tejas (the northern part of which would become the Republic of Texas), San Luis Potosí, Querétaro, Durango, Guanajuato, Michoacán, Yucatán, Jalisco, Nuevo León, Tamaulipas, and Zacatecas. Several of these states formed their own governments: the Republic of the Rio Grande, the Republic of Yucatán, and the Republic of Texas. Only the Texans defeated Santa Anna and retained their independence. Their fierce resistance was possibly fueled by reprisals Santa Anna committed against his defeated enemies. The \"New York Post\" editorialized that \"had [Santa Anna] treated the vanquished with moderation and generosity, it would have been difficult if not impossible to awaken that general sympathy for the people of Texas which now impels so many adventurous and ardent spirits to throng to the aid of their brethren.\"\n\nThe Zacatecan militia, the largest and best supplied of the Mexican states, led by Francisco García, was well armed with .753 caliber British 'Brown Bess' muskets and Baker .61 rifles. But, after two hours of combat on 12 May 1835, Santa Anna's \"Army of Operations\" defeated the Zacatecan militia and took almost 3,000 prisoners. Santa Anna allowed his army to loot Zacatecas for forty-eight hours. After defeating Zacatecas, he planned to move on to Coahuila y Tejas to quell the rebellion there, which was being supported by settlers from the United States (aka \"Texians\").\n\nIn 1835, Santa Anna repealed the Mexican Constitution, which ultimately led to the beginning of the Texas Revolution. Santa Anna's reasoning for the repeal was that American settlers in Texas were not paying taxes or tariffs, claiming they were not recipients of any services provided by the Mexican Government. As a result, new settlers were not allowed there. The new policy was a response to the U.S. attempts to purchase Texas from Mexico.\n\nSanta Anna's treatment of the people of Texas also led to the revolution. In 1834, Santa Anna abolished the state legislature and gave himself absolute power, and as a result, the people in Texas were considered by Santa Anna to be a part of an unethical governmental system. The first altercation occurred in September 1835, when General Cos of the Mexican Army ordered men to confiscate a cannon from Gonzales. The people of Texas resisted, gaining control of the Alamo.\n\nLike other states discontented with the central Mexican authorities, the Texas Department of the Mexican state of Coahuila y Tejas rebelled in late 1835 and declared itself independent on 2 March 1836. The northeastern part of the state had been settled by numerous Anglo-American immigrants. Stephen Austin and his party had been welcomed by earlier Mexican governments.\n\nSanta Anna marched north to bring Texas back under Mexican control by a show of brute merciless force. His expedition posed challenges of manpower, logistics, supply, and strategy far beyond what he was prepared for, and it ended in disaster. To fund, organize, and equip his army he relied, as he often did, on forcing wealthy men to provide loans. He recruited hastily, sweeping up many derelicts and ex-convicts, as well as Indians who could not understand Spanish commands.\n\nHis army expected tropical weather and suffered from the cold as well as shortages of traditional foods. Stretching a supply line far longer than ever before, he lacked horses, mules, cattle, and wagons, and thus had too little food and feed. The medical facilities were minimal. Morale sank as soldiers realized there were not enough chaplains to properly bury their bodies. Regional Indians attacked military stragglers; water sources were polluted and many men were sick. Because of his weak staff system, Santa Anna was oblivious to the challenges, and was totally confident that a show of force and a few massacres (as at the Alamo and Goliad) would have the rebels begging for mercy.\n\nOn 6 March 1836, at the Battle of the Alamo, Santa Anna's forces killed 189 Texan defenders and later executed more than 342 Texan prisoners, including James Fannin at the Goliad Massacre (27 March 1836). These executions were conducted in a manner similar to the executions he witnessed of Mexican rebels in the 1810s as a young soldier.\n\nIn 1874, Santa Anna explained in a letter that killing defenders of the Alamo was his only option. The letter stressed that Commander William Travis was to blame for the degree of violence at the Alamo. Santa Anna believed that Travis was overly rude and disrespectful towards him, and had that not happened, he would have allowed Sam Houston to establish a dominant presence there. In his letter, he stated that the disrespect of Travis led to the demise of all of his followers, which he claimed only took a couple hours.\n\nHowever, the defeat at the Alamo bought time for General Sam Houston and his Texas forces. During the siege of the Alamo, the Texas Navy had more time to plunder ports along the Gulf of Mexico and the Texian Army gained more weapons and ammunition. Despite Sam Houston's lack of ability to maintain strict control of the Texian Army, they defeated Santa Anna's much larger army at the Battle of San Jacinto on 21 April 1836. The Texans shouted, \"Remember Goliad, Remember the Alamo!\" The day after the battle, a small Texan force led by James Austin Sylvester captured Santa Anna. They found the general dressed in a dragoon private's uniform and hiding in a marsh.\n\nOn May 14, 1836, a treaty was made between Santa Anna and Texas. It committed Santa Anna to ceasing attacks on the Texan people, bringing to an end all military conflict between the two. Santa Anna also agreed that his troops would leave Texas. Both armies were also prohibited from contact with each other. Lastly, the treaty demanded that all Texan prisoners under Santa Anna be released. The treaty was a major turning point in Santa Anna's career, as it meant the end of Mexican reign in Texas.\n\nLópez de Santa Anna rode double into Sam Houston's camp on the horse of Joel Walter Robison, a soldier in most of the revolutionary battles and later a member of the Texas House of Representatives from Fayette County.\n\nActing Texas president David G. Burnet and López de Santa Anna signed the Treaties of Velasco, stating that \"in his official character as chief of the Mexican nation, he acknowledged the full, entire, and perfect Independence of the Republic of Texas.\" In exchange, Burnet and the Texas government guaranteed Santa Anna's safety and transport to Veracruz. During this weeks-long journey, Santa Anna passed through Washington D.C. where he met briefly with the president Andrew Jackson. Meanwhile, in Mexico City a new government declared that Santa Anna was no longer president and that the treaty he had made with Texas was null and void.\n\nWhile Santa Anna was captive in Texas, Joel Roberts Poinsett – U.S. minister to Mexico in 1824 – offered a harsh assessment of General Santa Anna's situation:\nSay to General Santa Anna that when I remember how ardent an advocate he was of liberty ten years ago, I have no sympathy for him now, that he has gotten what he deserves.\n\nSanta Anna replied:\nSay to Mr. Poinsett that it is very true that I threw up my cap for liberty with great ardor, and perfect sincerity, but very soon found the folly of it. A hundred years to come my people will not be fit for liberty. They do not know what it is, unenlightened as they are, and under the influence of a Catholic clergy, a despotism is a proper government for them, but there is no reason why it should not be a wise and virtuous one.\n\nAfter some time in exile in the U.S., and after meeting U.S. president Andrew Jackson in 1837, Santa Anna was allowed to return to Mexico. He was transported aboard the USS \"Pioneer\" to retire to his Hacienda in Veracruz, called Manga de Clavo.\n\nIn 1837, Santa Anna also wrote a manifesto in which he reflected on his Texas experiences as well as his surrender. His great impact on Mexico was that by the age of thirty-five, he had built such a strong reputation as a military leader that he obtained high ranking. He acknowledged that by 1835, he considered Texas to be the biggest threat to Mexico, and he acted upon those threats.\n\nIn 1838, Santa Anna had a chance for redemption from the loss of Texas. After Mexico rejected French demands for financial compensation for losses suffered by French citizens, France sent forces that landed in Veracruz in the Pastry War. The Mexican government gave Santa Anna control of the army and ordered him to defend the nation by any means necessary. He engaged the French at Veracruz. During the Mexican retreat after a failed assault, Santa Anna was hit in the left leg and hand by cannon fire. His shattered ankle required amputation of much of his leg, which he ordered buried with full military honors. Despite Mexico's final capitulation to French demands, Santa Anna used his war service to re-enter Mexican politics as a hero. He never allowed Mexico to forget him and his sacrifice in defending the fatherland.\n\nSanta Anna used a prosthetic cork leg; during the later Mexican-American War, it was captured and kept by American troops from the 4th Illinois Infantry. The cork leg is displayed at the Illinois State Military Museum in Springfield. A second leg, a peg, was also captured by the 4th Illinois, and was reportedly used by the soldiers as a baseball bat; it is displayed at the home of Illinois Governor Richard J. Oglesby (who served in the regiment) in Decatur. Santa Anna had a replacement leg made which is displayed at the Museo Nacional de Historia in Mexico City.\n\nSoon after, as Anastasio Bustamante's presidency turned chaotic, supporters asked Santa Anna to take control of the provisional government. Santa Anna was made president for the fifth time, taking over a nation with an empty treasury. The war with France had weakened Mexico, and the people were discontented. Also, a rebel army led by Generals José Urrea and José Antonio Mexía was marching towards the capital in opposition to Santa Anna. Commanding the army, Santa Anna crushed the rebellion in Puebla.\n\nSanta Anna ruled in a more dictatorial way than during his first administration. His government banned anti-Santanista newspapers and jailed dissidents to suppress opposition. In 1842, he directed a military expedition into Texas. It committed numerous casualties with no political gain; but Texans began to be persuaded of the potential benefits of annexation by the more powerful U.S. Santa Anna was unable to control the Mexican congressional elections of 1842. The new Congress was composed of men of principles who vigorously opposed the autocratic leader.\n\nTrying to restore the treasury, Santa Anna raised taxes, but this aroused resistance. Several Mexican states stopped dealing with the central government, and Yucatán and Laredo declared themselves independent republics. With resentment growing, Santa Anna stepped down from power and fled in December 1844. The buried leg he left behind in the capital was dug up by a mob and dragged through the streets until nothing was left of it. Fearing for his life, he tried to elude capture, but in January 1845 he was apprehended by a group of Indians near Xico, Veracruz. They turned him over to authorities, and Santa Anna was imprisoned. His life was spared, but he was exiled to Cuba, still a Spanish colony.\n\nIn 1846, Mexican and American troops moved towards the Rio Grande into the disputed Nueces Strip. Following early skirmishes, the United States then declared war on Mexico. Santa Anna wrote to Mexico City saying he had no aspirations to the presidency, but would eagerly use his military experience to reclaim Texas. President Valentín Gómez Farías was desperate enough to accept the offer and allowed Santa Anna to return. Meanwhile, Santa Anna had secretly been dealing with representatives of the U.S., pledging that if he were allowed back in Mexico through the U.S. naval blockades, he would work to sell all contested territory to the U.S. at a reasonable price. Once back in Mexico at the head of an army, Santa Anna reneged on both of these agreements. Santa Anna declared himself president again and unsuccessfully tried to fight off the U.S. invasion. His leadership was said to inspire the sea shanty \"Santianna\".\n\nIn August 1846, Santa Anna left for Veracruz. The Mexican people did not dwell on Santa Anna's past of military shortcomings and betrayals, because they still recognized him as a savior or hero who could make everything better. It had only been a year since he was forced out of the republic, but Santa Anna was still popular among the Mexican people. In \"Santa Anna of Mexico\", Fowler recognizes these events as a major turning point in Santa Anna's career and history, and explained his \"transformation\" or \"resurrection\" at the time. Though he had a history of corruption, many of the local people would often acknowledge that Santa Anna was the most reliable person to help Mexico get through the many obstacles and threats that the country would often face. His return was different from past events because Santa Anna had no intention of getting involved in politics again, intending to solely focus on aiding the military in its war against the United States.\n\nFollowing defeat in the Mexican-American War in 1848, Santa Anna went into exile in Kingston, Jamaica. Two years later, he moved to Turbaco, Colombia. In April 1853, he was invited back by conservatives who had overthrown a weak liberal government, initiated under the Plan de Hospicio in 1852, drawn up by the clerics in the cathedral chapter of Guadalajara. Usually, revolts were fomented by military officers; this one was created by churchmen. Santa Anna was elected president on March 17, 1853; Alamán became his Minister of Foreign Relations, but died a short time later in June 1853. Santa Anna honored his promises to the Church, revoking a decree denying protection for the fulfillment of monastic vows, promulgated twenty years early during the era of Valentín Gómez Farías reform of 1833. President Santa Anna had left running the government in 1833 to his liberal vice president. The Jesuits, which had been expelled from Spanish realms by the crown in 1767, were allowed to return to Mexico ostensibly to educate poorer classes, and much of their property, which the crown had confiscated and sold, was restored to them.\n\nThis administration was no more successful than his earlier ones. He funneled government funds to his own pockets, sold more territory to the U.S. with the Gadsden Purchase, and declared himself dictator-for-life with the title \"Most Serene Highness\". Santa Anna's full title in this final period of power was \"Hero [\"benemérito\"] of the nation, General of Division, Grand Master of the National and Distinguished Order of Guadalupe, Grand Cross of the Royal and Distinguished Spanish Order of Carlos III, and President of the Mexican Republic.\"\n\nThe Plan of Ayutla of 1854 removed Santa Anna from office and he was exiled yet again.\n\nDespite his generous payoffs to the military for loyalty, by 1855 even conservative allies had seen enough of Santa Anna. That year a group of liberals led by Benito Juárez and Ignacio Comonfort overthrew Santa Anna, and he fled back to Cuba. As the extent of his corruption became known, he was tried \"in absentia\" for treason; all his estates were confiscated by the government.\n\nSanta Anna married twice, both times to wealthy teenage girls. At neither wedding ceremony did he appear, legally empowering his future father-in-law to serve as proxy at his first wedding and a friend at his second. One assessment of the two marriages is that they were arranged marriages of convenience, bringing considerable wealth to Santa Anna, and that his lack of attendance at the wedding ceremonies \"appears to confirm that he was purely interested in the financial aspect on the alliance.\"\n\nIn 1825, he married Inés García, the daughter of wealthy Spanish parents in Veracruz, and the couple had four children: María de Guadalupe, María del Carmen, Manuel, and Antonio López de Santa Anna y García. By 1825, Santa Anna had distinguished himself as a military man, joining the movement for independence when other creoles were also seeing Mexican autonomy as the way forward under royalist turned insurgent Agustín de Iturbide and the Army of Three Guarantees. When Iturbide as Mexican emperor lost support, Santa Anna had been in the forefront of leaders seeking to oust him. Although Santa Anna's family was of modest means, he was of good creole lineage; the García family may well have seen a match between their young daughter and the up-and-coming Santa Anna as advantageous. María Inés's dowry allowed Santa Anna to purchase the first of his haciendas, Manga de Clavo, in Veracruz state.\n\nThe wife of the first Spanish Ambassador to Mexico, Fanny Calderón de la Barca and her husband visited with Santa Anna's first wife Inés at Manga de Clavo, where they were well-received with a breakfast banquet. Mme. Calderón de la Barca observed that \"After breakfast, the Señora having dispatched an officer for her cigar-case, which was gold with a diamond latch, offered me a cigar, which I having declined, she lighted her own, a little paper 'cigarito', and the gentlemen followed her good example.\"\n\nTwo months after the death of his wife Inés García in 1844, the 50-year-old Santa Anna married 16-year-old María de los Dolores de Tosta. The couple rarely lived together; de Tosta resided primarily in Mexico City and Santa Anna's political and military activities took him around the country. They had no children, leading biographer Will Fowler to speculate that the marriage was either primarily platonic or that de Tosta was infertile.\n\nSeveral women claimed to have borne Santa Anna natural children. In his will, Santa Anna acknowledged and made provisions for four: Paula, María de la Merced, Petra, and José López de Santa Anna. Biographers have identified three more: Pedro López de Santa Anna, and Ángel and Augustina Rosa López de Santa Anna.\n\nFrom 1855 to 1874, Santa Anna lived in exile in Cuba, the United States, Colombia, and the then Danish island of Saint Thomas. He had left Mexico due to his unpopularity with the Mexican people after his defeat in 1848 and traveled to and from Cuba, the United States, and Europe. He participated in gambling and businesses with the hopes that he would become rich. In the 1850s, he traveled to New York with the first shipment of \"chicle\". This is the base of what we know today as chewing gum, however, Santa Anna intended chicle to be used in buggy tires. He attempted but was unsuccessful in convincing U.S. wheel manufacturers that this substance could be more useful in tires than the materials they were originally using. Although he introduced chewing gum to the United States, he did not make any money from the product.\n\nIn 1865, he attempted to return and offer his services during the French invasion by posing once again as the country's defender and savior, only to be refused by Juárez who was well aware of Santa Anna's character. Later that year a schooner owned by Gilbert Thompson, son-in-law of Daniel Tompkins, brought Santa Anna to his home in Staten Island, New York, where he tried to raise money for an army to return and take over Mexico City.\n\nThomas Adams, the American assigned to aid Santa Anna while he was in the U.S., experimented with chicle in an attempt to use it as a substitute for rubber. He bought one ton of the substance from Santa Anna, but his experiments proved unsuccessful. Instead, Adams helped to found the chewing gum industry with a product that he called \"chiclets\".\n\nDuring his many years in exile, Santa Anna was a passionate fan of the sport of cockfighting. He had many roosters that he entered into competitions, and would have his roosters compete with cocks from all over the world. He would invite breeders from all over the world for matches and is known to have spent tens of thousands of dollars on prize roosters.\n\nIn 1874, he took advantage of a general amnesty and returned to Mexico. Crippled and almost blind from cataracts, he was ignored by the Mexican government that same year at the anniversary of the Battle of Churubusco. Having retreated from politics in 1855, he remained disconnected until his death in 1876. Santa Anna died at his home in Mexico City on 21 June 1876 at age 82. He was buried with full military honors in a glass coffin in Panteón del Tepeyac Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "858784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858784", "title": "Black Arts Movement", "text": "Black Arts Movement\n\nThe Black Arts Movement, Black Aesthetics Movement or BAM is the artistic outgrowth of the Black Power movement that was prominent in the 1960s and early 1970s. \"Time\" magazine describes the Black Arts Movement as the \"single most controversial movement in the history of African-American literature – possibly in American literature as a whole.\" The Black Arts Repertory Theatre/School (BARTS), founded in Harlem in 1965 by LeRoi Jones (later known as Amiri Baraka) is a key institution of the Black Arts Movement.\n\nThe movement has been seen as one of the most important times in African-American literature. It inspired black people to establish their own publishing houses, magazines, journals and art institutions. It led to the creation of African-American Studies programs within universities. The movement was triggered by the assassination of Malcolm X. Among the well-known writers who were involved with the movement are Nikki Giovanni, Sonia Sanchez, Maya Angelou, Hoyt W. Fuller, and Rosa Guy. Although not strictly part of the Movement, other notable African-American writers such as novelists Toni Morrison and Ishmael Reed share some of its artistic and thematic concerns. Although Reed is neither a movement apologist nor advocate, he said:\n\nI think what Black Arts did was inspire a whole lot of Black people to write. Moreover, there would be no multiculturalism movement without Black Arts. Latinos, Asian Americans, and others all say they began writing as a result of the example of the 1960s. Blacks gave the example that you don't have to assimilate. You could do your own thing, get into your own background, your own history, your own tradition and your own culture. I think the challenge is for cultural sovereignty and Black Arts struck a blow for that.\n\nBAM influenced the world of literature with the portrayal of different ethnic voices. Before the movement, the literary canon lacked diversity, and the ability to express ideas from the point of view of racial and ethnic minorities, which was not valued by the mainstream at the time.\n\nTheatre groups, poetry performances, music and dance were centered on this movement, and therefore African Americans gained social and historical recognition in the area of literature and arts. Due to the agency and credibility given, African Americans were also able to educate others through different types of expressions and media outlets about cultural differences. The most common form of teaching was through poetry reading. African-American performances were used for their own political advertisement, organization, and community issues. The Black Arts Movement was spread by the use of newspaper advertisements. The first major arts movement publication was in 1964.\n\n\"No one was more competent in [the] combination of the experimental and the vernacular than Amiri Baraka, whose volume \"Black Magic Poetry 1961–1967\" (1969) is one of the finest products of the African-American creative energies of the 1960s.\"\n\nThe beginnings of the Black Arts Movement may be traced to 1965, when Amiri Baraka, at that time still known as Leroi Jones, moved uptown to establish the Black Arts Repertory Theatre/School (BARTS) following the assassination of Malcolm X. Rooted in the Nation of Islam, the Black Power Movement and the Civil Rights Movement, the Black Arts Movement grew out of a changing political and cultural climate in which Black artists attempted to create politically engaged work that explored the African American cultural and historical experience. Black artists and intellectuals such as Baraka made it their project to reject older political, cultural, and artistic traditions.\n\nAlthough the success of sit-ins and public demonstrations of the Black student movement in the 1960s may have \"inspired black intellectuals, artists, and political activists to form politicized cultural groups,\" many Black Arts activists rejected the non-militant integrational ideologies of the Civil Rights Movement and instead favored those of the Black Liberation Struggle, which emphasized \"self-determination through self-reliance and Black control of significant businesses, organization, agencies, and institutions.\" According to the Academy of American Poets, \"African American artists within the movement sought to create politically engaged work that explored the African American cultural and historical experience.\" The importance that the movement placed on Black autonomy is apparent through the creation of institutions such as the Black Arts Repertoire Theatre School (BARTS), created in the spring of 1964 by Baraka and other Black artists. The opening of BARTS in New York City often overshadow the growth of other radical Black Arts groups and institutions all over the United States. In fact, transgressional and international networks, those of various Left and nationalist (and Left nationalist) groups and their supports, existed far before the movement gained popularity. Although the creation of BARTS did indeed catalyze the spread of other Black Arts institutions and the Black Arts movement across the nation, it was not solely responsible for the growth of the movement.\n\nAlthough the Black Arts Movement was a time filled with black success and artistic progress, the movement also faced social and racial ridicule. The leaders and artists involved called for Black Art to define itself and speak for itself from the security of its own institutions. For many of the contemporaries the idea that somehow black people could express themselves through institutions of their own creation and with ideas whose validity was confirmed by their own interests and measures was absurd.\n\nWhile it is easy to assume that the movement began solely in the Northeast, it actually started out as \"separate and distinct local initiatives across a wide geographic area,\" eventually coming together to form the broader national movement. New York City is often referred to as the \"birthplace\" of the Black Arts Movement, because it was home to many revolutionary Black artists and activists. However, the geographical diversity of the movement opposes the misconception that New York (and Harlem, especially) was the primary site of the movement.\n\nIn its beginning states, the movement came together largely through printed media. Journals such as \"Liberator\", \"The Crusader\", and \"Freedomways\" created \"a national community in which ideology and aesthetics were debated and a wide range of approaches to African-American artistic style and subject displayed.\" These publications tied communities outside of large Black Arts centers to the movement and gave the general black public access to these sometimes exclusive circles.\n\nAs a literary movement, Black Arts had its roots in groups such as the Umbra Workshop. Umbra (1962) was a collective of young Black writers based in Manhattan's Lower East Side; major members were writers Steve Cannon, Tom Dent, Al Haynes, David Henderson, Calvin C. Hernton, Joe Johnson, Norman Pritchard, Lennox Raphael, Ishmael Reed, Lorenzo Thomas, James Thompson, Askia M. Touré (Roland Snellings; also a visual artist), Brenda Walcott, and musician-writer Archie Shepp. Touré, a major shaper of \"cultural nationalism,\" directly influenced Jones. Along with Umbra writer Charles Patterson and Charles's brother, William Patterson, Touré joined Jones, Steve Young, and others at BARTS.\n\nUmbra, which produced \"Umbra Magazine\", was the first post-civil rights Black literary group to make an impact as radical in the sense of establishing their own voice distinct from, and sometimes at odds with, the prevailing white literary establishment. The attempt to merge a black-oriented activist thrust with a primarily artistic orientation produced a classic split in Umbra between those who wanted to be activists and those who thought of themselves as primarily writers, though to some extent all members shared both views. Black writers have always had to face the issue of whether their work was primarily political or aesthetic. Moreover, Umbra itself had evolved out of similar circumstances: in 1960 a Black nationalist literary organization, On Guard for Freedom, had been founded on the Lower East Side by Calvin Hicks. Its members included Nannie and Walter Bowe, Harold Cruse (who was then working on \"The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual\", 1967), Tom Dent, Rosa Guy, Joe Johnson, LeRoi Jones, and Sarah E. Wright, among others. On Guard was active in a famous protest at the United Nations of the American-sponsored Bay of Pigs Cuban invasion and was active in support of the Congolese liberation leader Patrice Lumumba. From On Guard, Dent, Johnson, and Walcott along with Hernton, Henderson, and Touré established Umbra.\n\nAnother formation of black writers at that time was the Harlem Writers Guild, led by John O. Killens, which included Maya Angelou, Jean Carey Bond, Rosa Guy, and Sarah Wright among others. But the Harlem Writers Guild focused on prose, primarily fiction, which did not have the mass appeal of poetry performed in the dynamic vernacular of the time. Poems could be built around anthems, chants, and political slogans, and thereby used in organizing work, which was not generally the case with novels and short stories. Moreover, the poets could and did publish themselves, whereas greater resources were needed to publish fiction. That Umbra was primarily poetry- and performance-oriented established a significant and classic characteristic of the movement's aesthetics.\nWhen Umbra split up, some members, led by Askia Touré and Al Haynes, moved to Harlem in late 1964 and formed the nationalist-oriented Uptown Writers Movement, which included poets Yusef Rahman, Keorapetse \"Willie\" Kgositsile from South Africa, and Larry Neal. Accompanied by young \"New Music\" musicians, they performed poetry all over Harlem. Members of this group joined LeRoi Jones in founding BARTS.\n\nJones's move to Harlem was short-lived. In December 1965 he returned to his home, Newark (N.J.), and left BARTS in serious disarray. BARTS failed but the Black Arts center concept was irrepressible, mainly because the Black Arts movement was so closely aligned with the then-burgeoning Black Power movement.\nThe mid-to-late 1960s was a period of intense revolutionary ferment. Beginning in 1964, rebellions in Harlem and Rochester, New York, initiated four years of long hot summers. Watts, Detroit, Newark, Cleveland, and many other cities went up in flames, culminating in nationwide explosions of resentment and anger following Martin Luther King, Jr.'s April 1968 assassination.\n\nNathan Hare, author of \"The Black Anglo-Saxons\" (1965), was the founder of 1960s Black Studies. Expelled from Howard University, Hare moved to San Francisco State University, where the battle to establish a Black Studies department was waged during a five-month strike during the 1968–69 school year. As with the establishment of Black Arts, which included a range of forces, there was broad activity in the Bay Area around Black Studies, including efforts led by poet and professor Sarah Webster Fabio at Merrit College.\n\nThe initial thrust of Black Arts ideological development came from the Revolutionary Action Movement (RAM), a national organization with a strong presence in New York City. Both Touré and Neal were members of RAM. After RAM, the major ideological force shaping the Black Arts movement was the US (as opposed to \"them\") organization led by Maulana Karenga. Also ideologically important was Elijah Muhammad's Chicago-based Nation of Islam. These three formations provided both style and conceptual direction for Black Arts artists, including those who were not members of these or any other political organization. Although the Black Arts Movement is often considered a New York-based movement, two of its three major forces were located outside New York City.\n\nAs the movement matured, the two major locations of Black Arts' ideological leadership, particularly for literary work, were California's Bay Area because of the \"Journal of Black Poetry\" and \"The Black Scholar\", and the Chicago–Detroit axis because of \"Negro Digest/Black World\" and Third World Press in Chicago, and Broadside Press and Naomi Long Madgett's Lotus Press in Detroit. The only major Black Arts literary publications to come out of New York were the short-lived (six issues between 1969 and 1972) \"Black Theatre\" magazine, published by the New Lafayette Theatre, and \"Black Dialogue\", which had actually started in San Francisco (1964–68) and relocated to New York (1969–72).\n\nAlthough the journals and writing of the movement greatly characterized its success, the movement placed a great deal of importance on collective oral and performance art. Public collective performances drew a lot of attention to the movement, and it was often easier to get an immediate response from a collective poetry reading, short play, or street performance than it was from individual performances.\n\nThe people involved in the Black Arts Movement used the arts as a way to liberate themselves. The movement served as a catalyst for many different ideas and cultures to come alive. This was a chance for African Americans to express themselves in a way that most would not have expected.\n\nIn 1967 LeRoi Jones visited Karenga in Los Angeles and became an advocate of Karenga's philosophy of Kawaida. Kawaida, which produced the \"Nguzo Saba\" (seven principles), Kwanzaa, and an emphasis on African names, was a multifaceted, categorized activist philosophy. Jones also met Bobby Seale and Eldridge Cleaver and worked with a number of the founding members of the Black Panthers. Additionally, Askia Touré was a visiting professor at San Francisco State and was to become a leading (and long-lasting) poet as well as, arguably, the most influential poet-professor in the Black Arts movement. Playwright Ed Bullins and poet Marvin X had established Black Arts West, and Dingane Joe Goncalves had founded the \"Journal of Black Poetry\" (1966). This grouping of Ed Bullins, Dingane Joe Goncalves, LeRoi Jones, Sonia Sanchez, Askia M. Touré, and Marvin X became a major nucleus of Black Arts leadership.\n\nAs the movement grew, ideological conflicts arose and eventually became too great for the movement to continue to exist as a large, coherent collective.\n\nMany discussions of the Black Arts movement posit it as the \"aesthetic and spiritual sister of the Black Power concept.\" The Black Aesthetic refers to ideologies and perspectives of art that center on Black culture and life. This Black Aesthetic encouraged the idea of Black separatism, and in trying to facilitate this, hoped to further strengthen black ideals, solidarity, and creativity.\n\nIn his well-known essay on the Black Arts Movement, Larry Neal attests: \"When we speak of a 'Black aesthetic' several things are meant. First, we assume that there is already in existence the basis for such an aesthetic. Essentially, it consists of an African-American cultural tradition. But this aesthetic is finally, by implication, broader than that tradition. It encompasses most of the usable elements of the Third World culture. The motive behind the Black aesthetic is the destruction of the white thing, the destruction of white ideas, and white ways of looking at the world.\"\n\nAmiri Baraka's poem \"Black Art\" serves as one of his most controversial, yet poetically profound supplements to the Black Arts Movement. In this piece, Baraka merges politics with art, criticizing poems that are not useful to or adequately representative of the Black struggle. First published in 1966, a period particularly known for the Civil Rights Movement, the political aspect of this piece underscores the need for a concrete and artistic approach to the realistic nature involving racism and injustice. Serving as the recognized artistic component to and having roots in the Civil Rights Movement, the Black Arts Movement aims to grant a political voice to black artists (including poets, dramatists, writers, musicians, etc.). Playing a vital role in this movement, Baraka calls out what he considers to be unproductive and assimilatory actions shown by political leaders during the Civil Rights Movement. He describes prominent Black leaders as being \"on the steps of the white house...kneeling between the sheriff's thighs negotiating coolly for his people.\" Baraka also presents issues of euro-centric mentality, by referring to Elizabeth Taylor as a prototypical model in a society that influences perceptions of beauty, emphasizing its influence on individuals of white and black ancestry. Baraka aims his message toward the Black community, with the purpose of coalescing African Americans into a unified movement, devoid of white influences. \"Black Art\" serves as a medium for expression meant to strengthen that solidarity and creativity, in terms of the Black Aesthetic. Baraka believes poems should \"shoot…come at you, love what you are\" and not succumb to mainstream desires.\n\nHe ties this approach into the emergence of hip-hop, which he paints as a movement that presents \"live words…and live flesh and coursing blood.\" Baraka's cathartic structure and aggressive tone are comparable to the beginnings of hip-hop music, which created controversy in the realm of mainstream acceptance, because of its \"authentic, un-distilled, unmediated forms of contemporary black urban music.\" Baraka believes that integration inherently takes away from the legitimacy of having a Black identity and Aesthetic in an anti-Black world. Through pure and unapologetic blackness, and with the absence of white influences, Baraka believes a black world can be achieved. Though hip-hop has been serving as a recognized salient musical form of the Black Aesthetic, a history of unproductive integration is seen across the spectrum of music, beginning with the emergence of a newly formed narrative in mainstream appeal in the 1950s. Much of Baraka's cynical disillusionment with unproductive integration can be drawn from the 50s, a period of rock and roll, in which \"record labels actively sought to have white artists \"cover\" songs that were popular on the rhythm-and-blues charts\" originally performed by African-American artists. The problematic nature of unproductive integration is also exemplified by Run-DMC, an American hip-hop group founded in 1981, who became widely accepted after a calculated collaboration with the rock group Aerosmith on a remake of the latter's \"Walk This Way\" took place in 1986, evidently appealing to young white audiences. Hip-hop emerged as an evolving genre of music that continuously challenged mainstream acceptance, most notably with the development of rap in the 1990s. A significant and modern example of this is Ice Cube, a well-known American rapper, songwriter, and actor, who introduced subgenre of hip-hop known as \"gangsta rap,\" merged social consciousness and political expression with music. With the 1960s serving as a more blatantly racist period of time, Baraka notes the revolutionary nature of hip-hop, grounded in the unmodified expression through art. This method of expression in music parallels significantly with Baraka's ideals presented in \"Black Art,\" focusing on poetry that is also productively and politically driven.\n\n\"The Revolutionary Theatre\" is a 1965 essay by Baraka that was an important contribution to the Black Arts Movement, discussing the need for change through literature and theater arts. He says: \"We will scream and cry, murder, run through the streets in agony, if it means some soul will be moved, moved to actual life understanding of what the world is, and what it ought to be.\" Baraka wrote his poetry, drama, fiction and essays in a way that would shock and awaken audiences to the political concerns of black Americans, which says much about what he was doing with this essay. It also did not seem coincidental to him that Malcolm X and John F. Kennedy had been assassinated within a few years, since Baraka believed that every voice of change in America had been murdered, which led to the writing that would come out of the Black Arts Movement.\n\nIn his essay, Baraka says: \"The Revolutionary Theatre is shaped by the world, and moves to reshape the world, using as its force the natural force and perpetual vibrations of the mind in the world. We are history and desire, what we are, and what any experience can make us.\"\n\nWith his thought-provoking ideals and references to a euro-centric society, he imposes the notion that black Americans should stray from a white aesthetic in order to find a black identity. In his essay, he says: \"The popular white man's theatre like the popular white man's novel shows tired white lives, and the problems of eating white sugar, or else it herds bigcaboosed blondes onto huge stages in rhinestones and makes believe they are dancing or singing.\" This, having much to do with a white aesthetic, further proves what was popular in society and even what society had as an example of what everyone should aspire to be, like the \"bigcaboosed blondes\" that went \"onto huge stages in rhinestones\". Furthermore, these blondes made believe they were \"dancing and singing\" which Baraka seems to be implying that white people dancing is not what dancing is supposed to be at all. These allusions bring forth the question of where black Americans fit in the public eye. Baraka says: \"We are preaching virtue and feeling, and a natural sense of the self in the world. All men live in the world, and the world ought to be a place for them to live.\" Baraka's essay challenges the idea that there is no space in politics or in society for black Americans to make a difference through different art forms that consist of, but are not limited to, poetry, song, dance, and art. \n\nAccording to the Academy of American Poets, \"many writers--Native Americans, Latinos/as, gays and lesbians, and younger generations of African Americans have acknowledged their debt to the Black Arts Movement.\" The movement lasted for about a decade, through the mid-1960s and into the 1970s. This was a period of controversy and change in the world of literature. One major change came through in the portrayal of new ethnic voices in the United States. English-language literature, prior to the Black Arts Movement, was dominated by white authors.\n\nAfrican Americans became a greater presence not only in the field of literature but in all areas of the arts. Theater groups, poetry performances, music and dance were central to the movement. Through different forms of media, African Americans were able to educate others about the expression of cultural differences and viewpoints. In particular, black poetry readings allowed African Americans to use vernacular dialogues. This was shown in the Harlem Writers Guild, which included black writers such as Maya Angelou and Rosa Guy. These performances were used to express political slogans and as a tool for organization. Theater performances also were used to convey community issues and organizations. The theaters, as well as cultural centers, were based throughout America and were used for community meetings, study groups and film screenings. Newspapers were a major tool in spreading the Black Arts Movement. In 1964, \"Black Dialogue\" was published, making it the first major Arts movement publication.\n\nThe Black Arts Movement, although short, is essential to the history of the United States. It spurred political activism and use of speech throughout every African-American community. It allowed African Americans the chance to express their voices in the mass media as well as become involved in communities.\n\nIt can be argued that \"the Black Arts movement produced some of the most exciting poetry, drama, dance, music, visual art, and fiction of the post-World War II United States\" and that many important \"post-Black artists\" such as Toni Morrison, Ntozake Shange, Alice Walker, and August Wilson were shaped by the movement.\n\nThe Black Arts Movement also provided incentives for public funding of the arts and increased public support of various arts initiatives.\n\n\nThe Arts Council of England's (ACE) Decibel initiative produced a summary in 2003 in association with \"The Guardian\" newspaper.\n\nAn international exhibition, \"Back to Black — Art, Cinema and the Racial Imaginary\", was held at the Whitechapel Gallery in 2005.\n\nA 2006 major conference \"Should Black Art Still Be Beautiful?\", organized by OOM Gallery and Midwest, examined the development of contemporary Black cultural practice and its future in Britain. On April 1, 2006, New Art Gallery, Walsall, UK, held a conference in honour of the late Donald Rodney.\n\n\"Gallery 32 and Its Circle\", a 2009 art exhibition hosted at Loyola Mount University's Laband Art Gallery, featured artwork displayed the eponymous gallery, which featured black artists in the Los Angeles area and played an integral role in the Black Arts movement in the area.\n\nA recently redeveloped African and Asian Visual Arts Archive is located at the University of East London (UEL).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1095862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1095862", "title": "Catharine Macaulay", "text": "Catharine Macaulay\n\nCatharine Macaulay (née Sawbridge; 23 March 1731 – 22 June 1791), later Catharine Graham, was an English Whig republican historian.\n\nCatharine Macaulay was a daughter of John Sawbridge (1699–1762) and his wife Elizabeth Wanley (died 1733) of Olantigh. John was a landed proprietor from Wye, Kent, whose ancestors were Warwickshire yeomanry.\n\nMacaulay was educated privately at home by a governess. In the first volume of her \"History of England\", Macaulay claimed that from an early age she was a prolific reader, in particular of \"those histories which exhibit liberty in its most exalted state in the annals of the Roman and Greek Republics...[from childhood] liberty became the object of a secondary worship\". However this account is at odds with what she told her friend Benjamin Rush, to whom she described herself as \"a thoughtless girl till she was twenty, at which time she contracted a taste for books and knowledge by reading an odd volume of some history, which she picked up in a window of her father's house\". She also told Caleb Fleming that she knew neither Latin nor Greek.\n\nLittle is known about her early life. In 1757 a Latin and Greek scholar, Elizabeth Carter, visited a function at Canterbury where she met Macaulay, then 26 years old. In a letter to a friend, Carter described Macaulay as a \"very sensible and agreeable woman, and much more deeply learned than becomes a fine lady; but between the Spartan laws, the Roman politics, the philosophy of Epicurus, and the wit of St. Evremond, she seems to have formed a most extraordinary system\".\n\nOn 20 June 1760 she married a Scottish physician, Dr. George Macaulay (1716–1766), and they lived at St James's Place, London. They remained married for six years until his death in 1766. They had one child together, Catharine Sophia.\n\nBetween 1763 and 1783 Macaulay wrote, in eight volumes, \"The History of England from the Accession of James I to that of the Brunswick Line\". However, when completing the last three volumes she realised she would not reach 1714 and so changed the title to \"The History of England from the Accession of James I to the Revolution\". Being practically unknown before the publication of the first volume, overnight she became \"the Celebrated Mrs. Macaulay\". She was the first Englishwoman to become an historian and during her lifetime the world's only female historian.\n\nThe \"History\" is a political history of the seventeenth century. The first and second volumes cover the years 1603–1641; volumes three and four cover 1642–1647; volume five covers 1648–1660; volumes six and seven cover 1660–1683 and the last volume spans 1683–1689. Macaulay chose this period because, as she wrote in the first volume, she wanted \"to do justice...to the memory of our illustrious ancestors\". She lamented that her contemporaries had forgotten that the privileges they enjoyed had been fought for by \"men that, with the hazard and even the loss of their lives, attacked the formidable pretensions of the Stewart family, and set up the banners of liberty against a tyranny which had been established for a series of more than one hundred and fifty years\".\n\nShe believed that the Anglo-Saxons had possessed freedom and equality with representative institutions but that these were lost at the Norman Conquest. The history of England, in Macaulay's view, was the story of the struggle of the English to win back their rights that were crushed by the \"Norman yoke\". She viewed the Commonwealth of England as \"the brightest age that ever adorned the page of history...Never did the annals of Humanity furnish the example of a government, so newly established, so formidable to foreign states as was at this period of the English Commonwealth\". The Long Parliament was \"the most patriotic government that ever blessed the hopes and military exertions of a brave people\". The Parliamentarian army's fighting \"was not a trade of blood, but an exertion of principle, and obedience to the call of conscience, and their conduct was not only void of insolence but benevolent and humane\".\n\nMacaulay justified the execution of King Charles I by claiming that \"Kings, the servants of the State, when they degenerated into tyrants, forfeited their right to government\". Following the argument of John Milton's \"Defence of the People of England\", she argued that \"the oaths of allegiance were to be understood as conditionally binding, according to the observance of the oaths kings made to their people. And neither the laws of God nor nature were against the peoples laying aside Kings and Kingly government, and the adopting more convenient forms\".\n\nShe was heavily critical of Oliver Cromwell, who she denounced as \"the vain-glorious usurper\" and as an \"individual, no ways exalted above his brethren in any of those private endowments which constitute the true greatness of character, or excelling in any quality, but in the measure of a vain and wicked ambition\". He was responsible for ending a \"period of national glory...when England after so long a subjection to monarchical tyranny bad fair to out-do in the constitution of its government...every circumstance of glory, wisdom and happiness related of ancient or modern empires\".\n\nHer view of the Glorious Revolution of 1688 was critical. She acknowledged that the Revolution Settlement limited the power of the crown and had rejected \"hereditary indefeasible right\" in favour of \"a contract with the people\" as the basis of the monarchy's power. However, she also claimed that patriots had neglected \"this fair opportunity to cut off all of the prerogatives of the crown\" which they had \"justly imputed the calamities and injuries sustained by the nation\". The Revolution Settlement had failed to \"admit of any of those refinements and improvements, which the experience of mankind had enabled them to make in the science of political security\".\n\nMacaulay shared her fellow radicals' anti-Catholicism, writing in the chapter covering the Irish Rebellion of 1641 of the Papists' \"never-ceasing attempts by every kind of means, to bring all things again to subjection to the Church of Rome; their avowed maxim that faith is not to be kept with heretics; their religious principles calculated for the support of despotic power, and inconsistent with the genius of a free constitution\".\n\nThroughout her \"History\", Macaulay showed a concern for her subjects' moral character and conduct. Self-interest was in her eyes the worst fault a king or politician was capable of. She criticised \"their apparent devotion to politics for personal gain rather than for the advancement of liberty\". Her approach was a moralising one as she believed that only a virtuous people could create a republic.\n\nWhigs welcomed the first volumes of the \"History\" as a Whig answer to David Hume's \"Tory\" \"History of England\". However, in 1768, relations between her and the Whigs cooled. Volume four of the history was published; this dealt with the trial and execution of Charles I. Macaulay expressed the view that Charles's execution was justified, praised the Commonwealth of England and revealed republican sympathies. This caused her to be abandoned by the Rockingham Whigs.\n\nThomas Hollis recorded in his diary (30 November 1763) that \"the history is honestly written, and with considerable ability and spirit; and is full of the freest, noblest, sentiments of Liberty\". Horace Walpole wrote to William Mason, quoting with approval Thomas Gray's opinion that it was the \"most sensible, unaffected and best history of England that we have had yet\". Early in 1769, Horace Walpole recorded dining with \"the famous Mrs. Macaulay\": \"She is one of the sights that all foreigners are carried to see\". However, Walpole later changed his opinion: \"The female historian as partial to the cause of liberty as bigots to the Church and royalists to tyranny, exerted manly strength with the gravity of a philosopher. Too prejudiced to dive into causes, she imputes everything to tyrannic views, nothing to passions, weakness, error, prejudice, and still less to what operates oftenest and her ignorance of which qualified her less for a historian—to accident and little motives\".\n\nWilliam Pitt praised the \"History\" in the House of Commons and denounced Hume's Tory bias. Also approving were Joseph Priestley and John Wilkes. Around 1770, Lord Lyttelton wrote that Macaulay was \"a very prodigy\", with portraits of her \"on every print-seller's counter\". There was a Derby figure of porcelain made of her and one of Patience Wright's first life-sized wax figures was of Macaulay. James Burgh wrote in 1774 that Macaulay wrote \"for the purpose of inculcating on the people of Britain the love of liberty and their country\". The French statesmen Mirabeau, Jacques Pierre Brissot and the Marquis de Condorcet admired the \"History\" as a corrective to Hume. In 1798 the French Ministry of the Interior recommended the \"History\" in a list of works suitable for school prizes.\n\nHer fame came to an end in 1778 when she remarried, with many of her friends and supporters dropping her. She henceforth disappeared into obscurity, only occasionally re-emerging into the public eye.\n\nMacaulay also wished to write a \"History of England from the Revolution to the Present Time\", however only the first volume (covering 1688–1733) was completed.\n\nMacaulay was associated with two political groups in the 1760s and 1770s: the Real Whigs and the Wilkites. However she was more interested in polemic than everyday strategy. She was a supporter of John Wilkes during the Wilkesite controversy of the 1760s and closely associated with the radical Society for the Supporters of the Bill of Rights. Both of these groups wanted to reform Parliament.\n\nThe Tory Samuel Johnson was a critic of her politics:\n\nSir, there is one Mrs. Macaulay in this town, a great republican. One day when I was at her house, I put on a very grave countenance, and said to her, “Madam, I am now become a convert to your way of thinking. I am convinced that all mankind are upon an equal footing; and to give you an unquestionable proof, Madam, that I am in earnest, here is a very sensible, civil, well-behaved fellow-citizen, your footman; I desire that he may be allowed to sit down and dine with us.” I thus, Sir, shewed her the absurdity of the levelling doctrine. She has never liked me since. Sir, your levellers wish to level \"down\" as far as themselves; but they cannot bear levelling \"up\" to themselves. They would all have some people under them; why not then have some people above them?\n\nIn 1790, Macaulay claimed she was only talking about political inequality, she insisted she was not \"arguing against that inequality of property which must more or less take place in all societies\".\n\nMacaulay opposed Catholic emancipation, criticising in 1768 those \"who pretend to be friends of Liberty and (from an affectation of a liberal way of thinking) would tolerate Papists\". She regarded the people of Corsica as being \"under Popish Superstition\" and recommended the works of Milton to enlighten them.\n\nShe supported the exiled Corsican Pasquale Paoli. In her \"Sketch of a Democratical Form of Government\" she advocated a two chamber state (Senate and People). She wrote that \"The second order is necessary because...without the people have authority enough to be thus classed, there can be no liberty\". The people should have the right to appeal a court's decision to the Senate and the People. Also, there should be a rotation of all public offices to prevent corruption. An agrarian law was needed to limit the amount of land an individual could inherit to prevent the formation of an aristocracy. She claimed that there needed to be \"an unrestrained power lodged in some person, capable of the arduous task of settling such a government\" and claimed that this should be Paoli. However Paoli distanced himself from Macaulay as his sole concern was sustaining English support for Corsica rather than intervening in domestic politics.\n\nMacaulay attacked Edmund Burke's \"Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents\". She wrote that it contained \"a poison sufficient to destroy all the little virtue and understanding of sound policy which is left in the nation\", motivated by \"the corrupt principle of self-interest\" of \"Aristocratic faction and party\" whose over-riding aim was a return to power. Burke had failed to see that the problem lay in the corruption which had its origins in the Glorious Revolution. Parliament was reduced to \"a mere instrument of regal administration\" rather than controlling the executive. Macaulay advocated a system of rotation for MPs and \"a more extended and equal power of election\".\n\nNone of Macaulay's historical or political works were concerned with women's rights. In her support for parliamentary reform, she did not envisage granting the vote to women. She was heavily influenced by the works of James Harrington, especially his belief that property was the foundation of political power.\n\nDuring a visit to France in 1774 she dined with Turgot, who enquired whether she wanted to see the Palace of Versailles. She replied that \"I have no desire to see the residence of the tyrants, I haven't yet seen that of the Georges\".\n\nHer last work was a pamphlet reply to Burke's \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790). She wrote that it was right that the French had not replaced Louis XVI as this would have complicated their task to ensure liberty. She replied to Burke's lament that the age of chivalry was gone by claiming that society should be freed from \"\"false\" notions of honour\" which were nothing more than \"methodized sentimental barbarism\". Whereas Burke supported the inherited rights of Englishmen rather than the abstract rights of man, Macaulay claimed that Burke's theory of rights as gifts of monarchs meant that monarchs could just as easily take away the rights they had granted. Only by claiming them as natural rights could they be secured. The \"boasted birthright of an Englishman\" she had always thought of as \"an arrogant pretension\" because it suggested \"a kind of exclusion to the rest of mankind from the same privileges\".\n\nThe increasingly radical nature of her work and her scandalous marriage on 14 November 1778 to William Graham (she was 47, he was 21) damaged her reputation in Britain, where she lived in Bath, Leicestershire and then Binfield in Berkshire. William was the younger brother of the sexologist James Graham, inventor of the Celestial Bed.\n\nShe was a lifelong member of the Church of England, although her apparent free expression of heterodox religious opinions shocked some of her contemporariness and led to accusations of infidelity. In her \"Treatise\" she wrote that God was \"omnipotent in the largest sense of the word, and that his works and commands\" were \"founded in righteousness and not in mere will\". The \"Treatise\" revealed her optimism about humanity and the belief in the attainment of perfection in individuals and society. She also claimed that reason, without faith, was insufficient and wrote of the need for the Church to concentrate \"on the practical doctrines of the Christian religion\", such as man's God-given powers of bettering his own condition and reducing evil. She also rejected the idea of an inherent human nature: \"There is not a virtue or a vice that belongs to humanity, which we do not make ourselves\".\n\nMacaulay believed in the afterlife. When she became dangerously ill in 1777 in Paris, she told a friend that death did not scare her for it was but \"a short separation between virtuous friends\" after which they would be reunited \"in a more perfect state\".\n\nShe wrote in 1790 in her \"Letters on Education\", as Mary Wollstonecraft did two years later in \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\", that the apparent weakness of women was due to their mis-education.\n\nIn the \"Letters\" she wrote \"the thoughts of a fatherless universe, and a set of beings let loose by chance or fate on one another, without other law than power dictates and opportunity gives a right to exact, chills the sensibility of the feeling mind into indifference and despair\".\n\nShe was personally associated with many leading figures among the American Revolutionaries. She was the first English radical to visit America after independence, staying there from 15 July 1784 to 17 July 1785. Macaulay visited James Otis and his sister Mercy Otis Warren. Mercy wrote afterwards that Macaulay was \"a lady whose Resources of knowledge seem to be almost inexhaustible\" and wrote to John Adams that she was \"a Lady of most Extraordinary talent, a Commanding Genius and Brilliance of thought\". According to Mercy's biographer, Macaulay had \"a more profound influence on Mercy than had any other woman of her era\". She then visited New York and met Richard Henry Lee, who afterwards thanked Samuel Adams for introducing him to \"this excellent Lady\". Upon the recommendation of Lee and Henry Knox, Macaulay stayed at Mount Vernon with George Washington and his family. Afterwards, Washington wrote to Lee of his pleasure at meeting \"a Lady...whose principles are so much and so justly admired by the friends of liberty and mankind\".\n\nAccording to Mary Hays, Macaulay \"had been furnished by general Washington with many materials\" for a history of the American Revolution but that \"she was, by the infirm state of her health\" stopped from doing so. Macaulay wrote to Mercy in 1787: \"Tho' the History of your late glorious revolution is what I should certainly undertake were I again young, yet as things are I must for many reasons decline such a task\".\n\nShe died in Binfield on 22 June 1791 and was buried in All Saints' parish church there.\n\nHer status as a somewhat scandalous woman writer with a damaged reputation has allowed her to be forgotten or disregarded by later historians of eighteenth-century literature and politics. However, her significance as a writer and political thinker is increasingly recognised. Her work has been the focus of a growing number of recent studies, a trend which seems set to continue.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7490337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7490337", "title": "Chicago Zen Center", "text": "Chicago Zen Center\n\nThe Chicago Zen Center (CZC) is a Harada-Yasutani Zen practice center located in Evanston, Illinois near Northwestern University currently led by Abbot Yusan Graham. Established in 1974, the Chicago Zen Center formed around an interested group of students who had attended a workshop given by Philip Kapleau in the early 1970s. For many years the center was an affiliate of the Rochester Zen Center in Rochester New York, which had sent teachers there throughout the year to hold sesshins. Today, Chicago Zen Center acts independently of the Rochester Zen Center .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "169174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169174", "title": "Consensus model (criminal justice)", "text": "Consensus model (criminal justice)\n\nThe Consensus Model or Systems Perspective of criminal justice argues that the organizations of a criminal justice system either do, or should, work cooperatively to produce justice, as opposed to competitively.\nA criminal justice model in which the majority of citizens in a society share the same values and beliefs. Criminal acts are acts that conflict with these values and beliefs and that are deemed to society.\n\n\ntutto\n"}
{"id": "32555489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32555489", "title": "Dominic Borg", "text": "Dominic Borg\n\nDominic Borg (17th century) was a minor Maltese philosopher who specialised in logic and rhetoric.\n\nHe probably lectured at the \"Collegium Melitense\" in Valletta. The extant works of Borg reveal practically nothing in terms of biographical data. What they \"do\" attest to is his philosophical prowess and his clarity of thought.\n\nOnly three works of Dominic Borg are known to exist. Two on rhetoric and one on logic. Others might have been lost or are currently displaced.\n\nBorg’s De Arte Rethorica: Brevis Notitia (A Short Note on the Art of Rhetoric), a work in Latin completed in 1668, is held in manuscript form at the National Library of Malta as MS. 718#10. It is his most relevant extant work to date. The manuscript is made up of forty folios, and is compiled as part of a miscellaneous volume of works. Basically, Borg’s manuscript is a study of rhetoric, and is composed as a series of epistles. The first epistle is an investigation into the teachings of Aristotle. Throughout all of the epistles, Borg makes liberal use of Cicero.\n\nAnother extant work on rhetoric from Borg’s hand is Compendio Brevissimo delli piu inutili precetti per comporre epistola (A Very Short Collection on the Minute Rules for Writing Epistles), composed in 1668. This manuscript is also in Latin, and is held at the National Library of Malta as MS. 718#11). It contains only twelve folios, and is organised in chapters (some of which are divided into smaller parts). The work investigates the nature of epistles, and the proper manner with which epistles should be composed. The work is not particularly speculative. It is more of a short and technical exercise in rhetoric. Again, Cicero is quoted profusely.\n\nBorg’s work on logic is called Brevis Introductio ad Logicam Artis (\"A Brief Introduction to the Art of Logic\"), composed in 1669. The manuscript is in Latin, and held at the National Library of Malta as MS. 718#2. This work is made up of just sixteen folios, and is actually a very simple piece of writing where Borg examines the various distinctions of logic. The composition is divided under various sub-titles.\n\nPhilosophy in Malta\n"}
{"id": "8770941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8770941", "title": "Empathy-altruism", "text": "Empathy-altruism\n\nEmpathy-altruism is a form of altruism based on feelings for others.\n\nThe social exchange theory states that altruism does not exist unless benefits to the helper outweigh the costs. C. Daniel Batson holds that people help others in need out of genuine concern for the well-being of the other person. The key ingredient to helping is \"empathic concern\". According to his empathy-altruism hypothesis, if someone feels empathy towards another person, they will help them, regardless of what they can gain from it (1991). An alternative hypothesis that exists is empathy-joy, which states a person helps because they find pleasure at seeing another person experience relief (2008). When they do not feel empathy, the social exchange theory takes control.\n\nDebate over whether other-helping behavior is motivated by self- or other interest has raged over the last 20 years. The prime actors in this debate are Daniel Batson arguing for empathy-altruism and Robert Cialdini arguing for self-interest.\nHowever, Batson recognized that people sometimes helped out of selfish reasons. He and his team were interested in finding ways to distinguish between motives. In one experiment, students were asked to listen to tapes from a radio program. One of the interviews was with a woman named Carol, who talked about her bad car accident in which both of her legs were broken, her struggles and how behind she was becoming in class. Students who were listening to this particular interview were given a letter asking the student to share lecture notes and meet with her. The experimenters changed the level of empathy by telling one group to try to focus on how she was feeling (high empathy level) and the other group not to be concerned with that (low empathy level). The experimenters also varied the cost of not helping: the high cost group was told that Carol would be in their psychology class after returning to school and the low cost group believed she would finish the class at home. The results confirmed the empathy-altruism hypothesis: those in the high empathy group were almost equally as likely to help her in either circumstance, while the low empathy group helped out of self-interest. Seeing her in class every day made them feel guilty if they did not help (Batson & Toi, 1982). \n\nThe authors of \"Five Studies Testing Two New Egoistic Alternatives to the Empathy-Altruism Hypothesis\" set out to show that empathy motivates other-regarding helping behavior not out of self-interest but out of true interest in the well-being of others.\nTwo hypotheses that counter the empathy-altruism hypothesis are addressed in this article:\n\n"}
{"id": "31130546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31130546", "title": "Frank Viola (author)", "text": "Frank Viola (author)\n\nFrank Viola is an American author, speaker, and blogger on Christian topics. His work focuses on Jesus studies and biblical narrative, with a strong emphasis on helping the poor and the oppressed. He is most noted for his emphasis on the gospel of the kingdom, the centrality and supremacy of Jesus Christ,\nand the idea that Jesus indwells all Christians and they can learn to live by his life.\n\nViola's early work was focused on organic church and missional church themes. His older books advocated church life based on the spiritual principles of the New Testament, the headship of Christ, face-to-face community, and the priesthood of all believers.\n\nSince 2009, Viola's work has been focused on Jesus studies, living by the indwelling life of Christ, God's eternal purpose, the present-day ministry of Christ, and biblical narrative.\nViola has authored over 20 books, over 900 blog articles, and over 100 podcast episodes. His podcast, Christ is All, has been ranked #1 in Canada and #2 in the USA (respectively) in the \"Christianity\" section of iTunes.\n\nHis blog, Beyond Evangelical, is regularly ranked in the top 10 of Christian blogs on the Web.\n\nViola and professor Leonard Sweet have written three books together, each focusing on Christology: Jesus Speaks, Jesus: A Theography and Jesus Manifesto.\n\nSince 2012, Viola has been strongly focused on helping the poor and the oppressed. Concerning the poor, Viola has said that helping those who are in need is part of \"the Magna Carta of the Church of Jesus Christ as she continues the ministry of Jesus on earth (Luke 4:18–19). Scripture, both Old Testament and New Testament, make clear that this is very much on God's heart.\"\n\nAside from being an author and speaker on Christian topics, Viola consults authors, bloggers, and writers in their craft. He lectures throughout the USA and around the world, having spoken in various locations including Canada, Ireland, South Africa, Chile, Argentina, Germany, Switzerland, and Holland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "72363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72363", "title": "Geert Groote", "text": "Geert Groote\n\nGerard Groote (October 1340 – 20 August 1384), otherwise \"Gerrit\" or \"Gerhard Groet\", in Latin \"Gerardus Magnus\", was a Dutch Roman Catholic deacon, who was a popular preacher and the founder of the Brethren of the Common Life. He was a key figure in the Devotio Moderna movement.\n\nHe was born in the Hanseatic city Deventer in the Bishopric of Utrecht, where his father held a good civic position. He studied at Aachen, then went to the University of Paris when only fifteen. Here he studied scholastic philosophy and theology at the Sorbonne under a pupil of William of Occam's, from whom he imbibed the nominalist conception of philosophy; in addition he studied Canon law, medicine, astronomy and even magic, and apparently some Hebrew. After a brilliant course he graduated in 1358. In 1362 he was appointed teacher at the Deventer chapter school. In 1366 his admiring countrymen sent him to Avignon on a secret mission to Pope Urban V.\n\nSoon after Groote settled in Cologne, teaching philosophy and theology, and was granted a prebend in Utrecht and another in Aachen. The life of the brilliant young scholar was rapidly becoming luxurious, secular and selfish, when a great spiritual change passed over him which resulted in a final renunciation of every worldly enjoyment. This conversion, which took place in 1374, appears to have been due partly to the effects of a dangerous illness and partly to the influence of a fellow student, Henry de Calcar, the learned and pious prior of the Charterhouse at Munnikhuizen (Monnikenhuizen) near Arnhem, who had remonstrated with him on the vanity of his life.\n\nIn 1374 Groote turned his family home in Deventer into a shelter for poor women and lived for several years as a guest of a Carthusian monastery. In 1379, having received ordination as a deacon, he became a missionary preacher throughout the diocese of Utrecht. The success which followed his labors not only in the city of Utrecht, but also in Zwolle, Deventer, Kampen, Amsterdam, Haarlem, Gouda, Leiden, Delft, Zutphen and elsewhere, was immense; according to Thomas à Kempis the people left their business and their meals to hear his sermons, so that the churches could not hold the crowds that flocked together wherever he came.\n\nThe bishop of Utrecht supported him warmly, and got him to preach against concubinage in the presence of the clergy assembled in synod. The impartiality of his censures, which he directed not only against the prevailing sins of the laity, but also against heresy, simony, avarice, and impurity among the secular and regular clergy, provoked the hostility of the clergy, and accusations of heterodoxy were brought against him. It was in vain that Groote emitted a \"Publica Protestatio\", in which he declared that Jesus was the great subject of his discourses, that in all of them he believed himself to be in harmony with Catholic doctrine, and that he willingly subjected them to the candid judgment of the Roman Church.\n\nThe bishop was induced to issue an edict which prohibited from preaching all who were not in priestly orders, and an appeal to Pope Urban VI was without effect. There is a difficulty as to the date of this prohibition; either it was only a few months before Groote's death, or else it must have been removed by the bishop, for Groote seems to have preached in public in the last year of his life.\n\nAt some period (perhaps 1381, perhaps earlier) he paid a visit of some days' duration to the famous mystic John Ruysbroeck, prior of the Augustinian canons at Groenendaal near Brussels; during this visit was formed Groote's attraction for the rule and life of the Augustinian canons which was destined to bear notable fruit. At the close of his life he was asked by some of the clerics who attached themselves to him to form them into a religious order and Groote resolved that they should be Canons Regular of St. Augustine. No time was lost in the effort to carry out the project, but Groote died before a foundation could be made.\n\nThe initiation of this movement was the great achievement of Groote's life; he lived to preside over the birth and first days of his other creation, the society of Brethren of the Common Life. He died of the plague at Deventer, which he had contracted while nursing the sick, in 1384 at the age of 44.\n\nYoung men especially flocked to him in great numbers. Some of these he sent to his schools, others he occupied at transcribing good books, to all he taught thorough Christian piety. Groote and Florence Radewyns, his favourite disciple, founded at Zwolle the Brethren of the Common Life. In 1387 a site was secured at Windesheim, some north of Deventer, and here was established the monastery that became the cradle of the Windesheim Congregation of canons regular embracing in course of time nearly one hundred houses, and leading the way in the series of reforms undertaken during the 15th century by all the religious orders in Germany. Henceforth his communities, which were spreading rapidly through the Netherlands, Lower Germany, and Westphalia, claimed and received all his attention. He contemplated organizing his clerics into a community of canons regular, but it was left to Radewyns, his successor, to realize this plan at Windesheim two years later.\n\nA movement known as the Modern Devotion (Devotio Moderna) was founded in the Netherlands by Groote and Florens Radewyns, in the late fourteenth century. For Grote the pivotal point is the search for inner peace, which results from the denial of one's own self and is to be achieved by \"ardour\" and \"silence\". This is the heart of the \"New Devotion\", the \"Devotio moderna\". Solitary meditation on Christ’s Passion and redemption, on one’s own death, the Last Judgment, heaven, and hell was essential.\n\nIn the course of the 15th century, the Modern Devotion found adherents throughout the Netherlands and Germany. Its precepts were further disseminated in texts such as \"The Imitation of Christ\" by Thomas à Kempis, which reached an increasingly literate public. In this context small works of art such as diptychs that provided a focus for private worship enjoyed wide popularity.\n\nGeert Groote College is located in Amsterdam.\n\n\n\nAn account, based on the \"Britannica\" sources, is in S. Kettlewell, \"Thomas à Kempis and the Brothers of Common Life\" (1882), i. c. 5; and a shorter account in F. R. Cruise, \"Thomas à Kempis\", 1887, pt. ii. A sketch, with an account of Groote's writings, is given by L. Schulze in Herzog-Hauck, \"Realencyklopädie\" (ed. 3); he insists on the fact that Groote's theological and ecclesiastical ideas were those commonly current in his day, and that the attempts to make him a reformer before the Reformation are unhistorical.\n\n"}
{"id": "3271073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3271073", "title": "György Márkus", "text": "György Márkus\n\nGyörgy Márkus (13 April 1934 – 5 October 2016) was a Hungarian philosopher, belonging to the small circle of critical theorists closely associated with György Lukács, usually referred to as the \"Budapest School\".\n\nHe completed his philosophical training at Lomonosov University in Moscow in 1957. Due to ideological disputes, he was removed from his teaching positions in Hungary in 1973, and fled in 1977 to Australia, where from 1978 he taught at the University of Sydney. Following political liberalisation in Hungary, Markus was reassimilated and taught regularly in his homeland, although he remained resident in Sydney. He was external member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (1990). He was also on the editorial board of the academic journal \"Thesis Eleven: Critical Theory and Historical Sociology\".\n\nHe was married to eminent Polish sociologist Dr. Maria Márkus, a lecturer at the University of New South Wales. They have two sons, György and András.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16326920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16326920", "title": "Hanazono University", "text": "Hanazono University\n\nIt is a major competitor of the Sōtō college in Tokyo known as Komazawa University. Despite the university's sectarian affiliation, the school accepts Soto students. The school operates two research centers important in Zen academia, i.e. the Institute for Zen Studies and the International Research Institute for Zen Buddhism. Founded in 1872 as a seminary for those interested in the priesthood, the university carries on that tradition while offering an education to those uninterested in becoming a priest. The university's president is Dr. Kosan Abe. Former presidents include Eshin Nishimura.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53093558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53093558", "title": "Henry Silton Harris", "text": "Henry Silton Harris\n\nHenry Silton Harris (April 26, 1926 – March 13, 2007) was a British-Canadian philosopher, having been a Distinguished Research Professor at York University starting in 1984. He was Glendon College's Academic Dean from 1967 to 1969, a Fellow in Royal Society of Canada and was also given an Honorary Doctor of Letters from York in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "56721159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56721159", "title": "Historical books", "text": "Historical books\n\nThe historical books are a division in the Christian Old Testament, corresponding to the Former Prophets of the Hebrew Nevi'im and two of the ungrouped books of Ketuvim, together with the Book of Ruth (between Judges and Samuel) and the Book of Esther (after Nehemiah) which in the Tanakh are both found in the Five Megillot.\n\nThe historical books of the main Christian canons are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "449679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449679", "title": "Hymn of the Pearl", "text": "Hymn of the Pearl\n\nThe Hymn of the Pearl (also Hymn of the Soul, Hymn of the Robe of Glory or Hymn of Judas Thomas the Apostle) is a passage of the apocryphal \"Acts of Thomas\". In that work, originally written in Syriac, the Apostle Thomas sings the hymn while praying for himself and fellow prisoners. Some scholars believe the hymn antedates the Acts, as it only appears in one Syriac manuscript and one Greek manuscript of the Acts of Thomas. The author of the Hymn is unknown, though there is a belief that it was composed by the Syriac gnostic Bardaisan due to some parallels between his life and that of the hymn. It is believed to have been written in the 2nd century or even possibly the 1st century.\n\nThe hymn tells the story of a boy, \"the son of the king of kings\", who is sent to Egypt to retrieve a pearl from a serpent. During the quest, he is seduced by Egyptians and forgets his origin and his family. However, a letter is sent from the king of kings to remind him of his past. When the boy receives the letter, he remembers his mission, retrieves the pearl and returns. That the boy is implicitly Thomas rather than Jesus is indicated by the eventual assertion that he is next in line to his elder brother, this unnamed brother not otherwise mentioned in the text.\n\nThe hymn is commonly interpreted as a Gnostic view of the human condition, that we are spirits lost in a world of matter and forgetful of our true origin. This state of affairs may be ameliorated by a revelatory message delivered by a messenger, a role generally ascribed to Jesus. The letter thus takes on a symbolic representation of gnosis.\n\nThe hymn has been preserved and especially treasured in Manichaeism - a version of it appears as part of a north-African Manichaean Psalm book is written in Coptic, called the Psalms of Thomas. The Hymn of the Pearl has also been admired by Orthodox Christian thinkers and members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (Mormons).\n\nPlease note that wikisource contains the .\n\nThe \"Hymn of the Pearl\" is read as part of the narration in Terrence Malick's 2015 film \"Knight of Cups\". The film deals with themes of pain, loss of direction and transcendence, which are part of the poem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7099224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7099224", "title": "Institute on Religion in an Age of Science", "text": "Institute on Religion in an Age of Science\n\nThe Institute on Religion in an Age of Science (IRAS) is a non-denominational society that promotes and facilitates the ongoing dialectic between religion and science. The Institute has held annual week-long conferences at Star Island in New Hampshire since 1954. The conference attracts about 250 members and non-members each year.\n\nIn its Constitution, the IRAS purpose is stated as follows: \"The Institute on Religion in an Age of Science is established\n\nThe IRAS Council adopted the following statement in 2003:\n“We at IRAS take the natural world seriously as a primary source of meaning. Our quest is informed and guided by the deepening and evolving understandings fostered by scientific inquiry.\n\n“From here, our quests for meaning take us in divergent directions. For some, the natural world and its emergent manifestations in human experience and creativity are the focus of exploration. Some go on to encounter and celebrate the sacred in such explorations. For some, understandings of the natural world are interwoven with understandings inherent in various religious traditions, generating additional paths of exploration and encounter. As a result, we articulate our emerging orientations with many voices that are harmonious in that we share a common sense of place and gratitude.\n\n“We acknowledge as well a shared set of values and concerns pertaining to peace, justice, dignity, cultural and ecological diversity and planetary sustainability. Although we may differ and hence debate as to how these concerns are here addressed, we are committed to participating in their resolution.”\n\nIRAS evolved from the ideas of two pioneer groups. The first was a group of scientists from the Committee on Science and Values of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The second group was an interfaith, religious coalition which hoped to revitalize religion for today's needs. Members of both groups saw what some perceived as a battlefield of conflicting ideologies to be a place of opportunity for a constructive relationship to emerge.\n\nIn 1954 the scientists accepted an invitation to present their views to the religious group at a seven-day conference on Religion in an Age of Science on Star Island. On November 9, 1954, members of the two groups established the Institute on Religion in an Age of Science to work toward these goals.\n\nPresidents of the Institute have included Harlow Shapley, Philip Hefner, Ursula Goodenough, and Varadaraja V. Raman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34877776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34877776", "title": "Jalaludin Abdur Rahim", "text": "Jalaludin Abdur Rahim\n\nJalaludin Abdur Rahim (Urdu: جلال الدين عبدالرحيم; Bengali: জালালুদ্দিন আবদুর রহিম; also known as J. A. Rahim) (27 July 1906 – 1977) was a Bengali communist and political philosopher who was renowned as one of the founding members of the Pakistan People's Party—a democratic socialist political party. Rahim was also the first Secretary-General of the Pakistan People's Party, served as the first minister of production. A Bengali civil servant, Rahim was a philosopher who politically guided Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, serving as his mentor, and had helped Bhutto navigate through the minefield of bureaucratic establishment when Ayub Khan had taken Bhutto into his cabinet. Rahim also guided Bhutto after Bhutto was deposed as Foreign Minister, critically guiding Bhutto to take down the once US-sponsored dictatorship of Ayub Khan.\n\nEducated at the University of Dhaka where Rahim received double BSc in Political Science and Philosophy after writing and publishing the brief thesis on Nietzsche Philosophy. Later, Rahim attended Calcutta University, receiving a LLB degree in Law and Justice. Rahim began his political activism in Pakistan Movement, serving as its in East Bengal. His father, Justice Abdur Rahim also had served as a senior associate judge at the Supreme Court of Pakistan.\n\nAfter his education, Rahim joined the Pakistan Civil Services, picking up the first bureaucratic assignment in Foreign Service of Pakistan. Rahim served as the Foreign Secretary under the government of Prime minister Muhammad Ali Bogra.\n\nFor some time, he remained associated with Communist party, but also built personal relations with Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in 1965. After attending the socialist convention at the residence of Dr. Mubashir Hassan, J. A. Rahim played a key role in writing the party's socialist manifesto: \"Islam is our religion; democracy is our politics; socialism is our economy; power lies with the people\", on 30 November 1967. This manifesto was officially first issued on 9 December 1967. J.A. Rahim was made Pakistan Peoples Party's first secretary general after writing the party's constitution.\n\nRahim earned public notability after his name was announced as a Bengali member of delegation of Pakistan Peoples Party to launch a negotiation with Awami League party under Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. In 1970, Rahim along with Ghulam Mustafa Khar, returned to West Pakistan, telling Bhutto that the \"meeting with Mujib was of no use\". After the 1971 war, Rahim stayed in what remained of Pakistan, governing the Law ministry, Justice minister, and the Township planning and agrovilles. In 1972, Rahim was appointed as the first Minister of Defence Production which he governed until 1974. \n\nHis relations with Bhutto deteriorated after Pakistan People's Party began purging the radical and ultra-left wings of the party and J. A. Rahim was also sidelined by Bhutto later. \nIn July 1974, Rahim himself got disillusioned with Bhutto after seeing Bhutto's handling of internal affairs and publicly disagreed with Bhutto as he wanted Bhutto to deal with the matters efficiently, not by force.\n\nHe was appointed Pakistan Ambassador to France by Bhutto just to get him out of the way and away from Pakistani politics. But he returned to Pakistan unscheduled. Rahim was then tortured by the members of the secret police, the Federal Security Force (FSF), and was thrown into jail in 1976. Shortly afterwards, he was released. Later after Bhutto had formally issued an apology to him, he again left for France to complete his tenure as ambassador. Some people say that Bhutto, in 1979 during his final days in Zia-ul-Haq's death cell, regretted most was his fall-out with his former mentor, J. A. Rahim.\n\nIn 1977, Rahim suffered a heart attack and died. He is now buried in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "42251515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42251515", "title": "Jane Mansbridge", "text": "Jane Mansbridge\n\nJane Jebb Mansbridge (born November 19, 1939) is an American political scientist. She is the Charles F. Adams Professor of Political Leadership and Democratic Values in the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.\n\nMansbridge has made contributions to democratic theory, feminist scholarship, and the empirical study of social movements and direct democracy.\n\nIn April 2018, Mansbridge was announced to be the 24th laureate of the Johan Skytte Prize in Political Science.\n\nMansbridge received her B.A. from Wellesley College in 1961, her M.A. in history from Harvard in 1966, and her Ph.D. in government from Harvard in 1971.\n\nMansbridge previously taught at the University of Chicago and Northwestern University.\n\nMansbridge is particularly known for the distinction between unitary and adversary democracy (based on common and conflicting interests respectively), and for her concepts of gyroscopic representation (based on inner motivation), the selection model of representation, and surrogate representation (representation of others outside one's district). She is currently working on the necessity for legitimate coercion created by our need for \"free use\" (or \"free access\") goods.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "477225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477225", "title": "Johann Albrecht Bengel", "text": "Johann Albrecht Bengel\n\nJohann Albrecht Bengel (24 June 1687 – 2 November 1752), also known as \"Bengelius\", was a Lutheran pietist clergyman and Greek-language scholar known for his edition of the Greek New Testament and his commentaries on it.\n\nBengel was born at Winnenden in Württemberg. Due to the death of his father in 1693, he was educated by a family friend, David Wendel Spindler, who became a master in the gymnasium at Stuttgart. In 1703 Bengel left Stuttgart and entered the University of Tübingen as a student at the \"Tübinger Stift\", where, in his spare time, he devoted himself especially to the works of Aristotle and Spinoza, and, in theology, to those of Philipp Spener, Johann Arndt and August Francke. His knowledge of the metaphysics of Spinoza was such that he was selected by one of the professors to prepare materials for a treatise, \"De Spinosismo\", which was afterwards published.\n\nAfter acquiring his degree, Bengel devoted himself to theology. Even at this time he had religious doubts; it is interesting in view of his later work that one cause of his perplexities was the difficulty of ascertaining the true reading of certain passages in the Greek New Testament. In 1707 Bengel entered the ministry and was appointed to the parochial charge of Metzingen-unter-Urach. In the following year he was recalled to Tübingen to undertake the office of \"Repetent\" (theological tutor).\n\nHe remained at Tübingen until 1713, when he was appointed head of a seminary recently established at Denkendorf as a preparatory school of theology. Before entering into his new duties he travelled through the greater part of Germany, studying the systems of education which were in use, and visiting the seminaries of the Jesuits as well as those of the Lutheran and Reformed churches. Among other places he went to Heidelberg and Halle, and had his attention directed at Heidelberg to the canons of scripture criticism published by Gerhard von Maastricht, and at Halle to Campeius Vitringa's \"Anacrisis ad Apocalypsin\". The influence exerted by these upon his theological studies is manifest in some of his works.\n\nFor 28 years, from 1713 to 1741, he was master () of the \"Klosterschule\" at Denkendorf, a seminary for candidates for the ministry established in a former monastery of the Canons of the Holy Sepulchre. To these years, the period of his greatest intellectual activity, belong many of his chief works.\n\nIn 1741 he was appointed prelate (i.e. general superintendent) at Herbrechtingen, where he remained until 1749, when he was raised to the dignity of consistorial counsellor and prelate of Alpirsbach, with a residence in Stuttgart. He devoted himself to the discharge of his duties as a member of the consistory. A question of considerable difficulty was at that time occupying the attention of the church courts: the manner in which those who separated themselves from the church were to be dealt with, and the amount of toleration which should be accorded to meetings held in private houses for the purpose of religious edification. The civil power (the duke of Württemberg was a Roman Catholic) was disposed to have recourse to measures of repression, while the members of the consistory, recognizing the good effects of such meetings, were inclined to concede considerable liberty. Bengel exerted himself on the side of the members of the consistory. In 1751 the University of Tübingen conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Divinity. He died in Stuttgart, aged 65.\n\nBengel carried on an 18-year-long controversy with Nicolaus Ludwig, Count von Zinzendorf, leader of the Moravian Brethren from Herrnhut in Saxony. This led to a break between the Moravian Brethren and the dour Pietism typical of Württemberg, represented by Bengel. With his determined certainty giving him systematic insight into the divine Plan of Salvation, Bengel dogmatically opposed the dynamic, ecumenical, missionary efforts of Zinzendorf, who was indifferent to all dogmatism and intolerance. As Bengel did not hesitate to manipulate historical calendars in his chiliastic attempts to predict the end of the world, Zinzendorf rejected this as superstitious “interpretation of signs.”\n\nHis reputation as a Biblical scholar and critic rests chiefly on his edition of the Greek New Testament (1734) and his exegetical annotations on the same, which have passed through many editions in Latin, German, and English and are still highly valued by expositors of the New Testament.\n\nBengel's edition of the Greek New Testament was published at Tübingen in 1734, and at Stuttgart in the same year, but without the critical apparatus. As early as 1725, in an addition to his edition of \"Chrysostoms De Sacerdotio\", he had given an account in his \"Prodromus Novi Testamenti Graeci recte cauteque adornandi\" of the principles on which his intended edition was to be based. In preparation for his work, Bengel was able to avail himself of the collations of upwards of twenty manuscripts, none of them, however, of great importance, twelve of which had been collated by himself. In constituting the text, he imposed upon himself the singular restriction of not inserting any variant reading which had not already been printed in some preceding edition of the Greek text. From this rule, however, he deviated in the case of the Apocalypse, where, owing to the corrupt state of the text, he felt himself at liberty to introduce certain readings on manuscript authority. In the lower margin of the page he inserted a selection of various readings, the relative importance of which he denoted by the first five letters of the Greek alphabet in the following manner: α was employed to denote the reading which in his judgment was the true one, although he did not venture to place it in the text; β, a reading better than that in the text; γ, one equal to the textual reading; and δ, readings inferior to those in the text. Robert Estienne's division into verses was retained in the inner margin, but the text was divided into paragraphs.\n\nThe text was followed by a critical apparatus, the first part of which consisted of an introduction to the criticism of the New Testament, in the thirty-fourth section of which he laid down and explained his celebrated canon, \"Proclivi scriptioni praestat ardua\" (The difficult reading is to be preferred to that which is easy), the soundness of which, as a general principle, has been recognized by succeeding critics. The second part of the critical apparatus was devoted to a consideration of the various readings, and here Bengel adopted the plan of stating the evidence both against and in favor of a particular reading, thus placing before the reader the materials for forming a judgment. Bengel was the first definitely to propound the theory of families or recensions of manuscripts.\n\nHis investigations had led him to see that a certain affinity or resemblance existed amongst many of the authorities for the Greek text manuscripts, versions, and ecclesiastical writers: for example, if a peculiar reading was found in one of these, it was generally also found in the other members of the same class; and this general relationship seemed to point ultimately to a common origin for all the authorities which presented such peculiarities. Although disposed at first to divide the various documents into three classes, he finally adopted a classification into two: the African or older family of documents, and the Asiatic, or more recent class, to which he attached only a subordinate value. The theory was afterwards adopted by J.S. Semler and J.J. Griesbach, and worked up into an elaborate system by the latter critic.\n\nBengel's labors on the text of the Greek Testament were received with great disfavour in many quarters. Like Brian Walton and John Mill before him, he had to encounter the opposition of those who believed that the certainty of the word of God was endangered by the importance attached to the various readings. JJ Wetstein, on the other hand, accused him of excessive caution in not making freer use of his critical materials. In answer to these strictures, Bengel published a \"Defence of the Greek Text of His New Testament\", which he prefixed to his \"Harmony of the Four Gospels\", published in 1736, and which contained an answer to the complaints, especially of Wetstein, which had been made against him.\n\nThe text of Bengel long enjoyed a high reputation among scholars, and has been frequently reprinted. An enlarged edition of the critical apparatus was published by Philip David Burk in 1763.\n\nThe other great work of Bengel, and that on which his reputation as an exegete is mainly based, is his \"Gnomon Novi Testamenti\", or \"Exegetical Annotations on the New Testament\", published in 1742. It was the fruit of twenty years labor, and exhibits with a brevity of expression, which, it has been said, condenses more matter into a line than can be extracted from pages of other writers, the results of his study. He modestly entitled his work a \"Gnomon\" or index, his object being rather to guide the reader to ascertain the meaning for himself, than to save him from the trouble of personal investigation. The principles of interpretation on which he proceeded were, to import nothing into Scripture, but to draw out of it everything that it really contained, in conformity with grammatico-historical rules not to be hampered by dogmatical considerations; and not to be influenced by the symbolical books. Bengel's hope that the \"Gnomon\" would help to rekindle a fresh interest in the study of the New Testament was fully realized. It has passed through many editions, has been translated into German and into English (by Marvin Vincent in 1860), and is still valued by expositors of the New Testament. John Wesley made great use of it in compiling his \"Expository Notes upon the New Testament\" (1755).\n\nBesides the two works already described, Bengel was the editor or author of many others, classical, patristic, ecclesiastical and expository. The more important are: \"Ordo Temporum\", a treatise on the chronology of Scripture, in which he enters upon speculations regarding the end of the world, and an \"Exposition of the Apocalypse\" which enjoyed for a time great popularity in Germany, and was translated into several languages. His fame was such that almost 200 years later, Hermann Hesse has the hero of The Glass Bead Game discuss Bengel's writings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15594973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15594973", "title": "John Levy (philosopher)", "text": "John Levy (philosopher)\n\nJohn Levy (1910-1976) was a British mystic, artist, and musician, best known for translating the works of his guru Sri Atmananda Krishna Menon, \"Atma Darshan\" and \"Atma Niviriti\" into English.\n\nBorn into a wealthy aristocratic family, Levy was an expert in Asian folk music, especially that of India. At one point in his life, he gave up his entire fortune and went to live in India with only a loincloth.\n\nHe died in London in 1976.\n\nIn India, Levy was a student of Krishna Menon.\n\n"}
{"id": "37466465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37466465", "title": "Jon Stewart (philosopher)", "text": "Jon Stewart (philosopher)\n\nJon B. Stewart is an American philosopher and historian of philosophy. He specializes in 19th century Continental philosophy with an emphasis on the thought of Kierkegaard and Hegel. Stewart currently works as a researcher at the Institute of Philosophy at the Slovak Academy of Sciences.\n\nStewart earned his BA in Philosophy in 1984 from the University of California, Santa Cruz, where he studied with David Hoy. He received his MA in 1986 and his PhD in 1992 from the University of California, San Diego, where he studied with Henry Allison, Nicholas Jolley, Robert B. Pippin and Frederick A. Olafson. His dissertation was entitled \"The Transition from \"Consciousness\" to \"Self-Consciousness\" in Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit\".\n\nStewart did research for his dissertation at the Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster in 1989-90, where he worked together with Ludwig Siep. From 1990-91 Stewart had a research assistantship at the same university, where he was an assistant for Jürgen-Gerhard Blühdorn. After completing his dissertation in the spring of 1992 Stewart returned to Münster with a postdoctoral grant.\n\nFrom 1993-94 Stewart had a grant to do post-doctoral research at the Université Libre in Brussels (where he worked with Marc Richir) and at the Katholieke Universiteit in Leuven, Belgium. Stewart received another postdoctoral grant, which allowed him to pursue his research from 1994-95 at the Humboldt-Universität in Berlin, where he worked with Volker Gerhardt.\n\nIn 1996 Stewart was awarded a two-year postdoctoral grant from, what was then, the newly created Søren Kierkegaard Research Centre at the University of Copenhagen. This grant was extended and eventually turned into a regular research position. In 2003 he defended his Habilitation thesis at the Faculty of Theology at the University of Copenhagen. In 2005 he was Guest Professor at the Philosophy Department, at the University of Iceland. In 2007 he completed a second Habilitation thesis, this time in Philosophy at the University of Copenhagen. In the same year he was elected into the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters. In 2008-2009 Stewart received a fellowship to work at the Collegium Budapest, Institute for Advanced Study. In 2010 he was Guest Professor at the Philosophy Department at the Universidad de los Andes, Santiago de Chile. He has also had several research stays at the Hong Kierkegaard Library at St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minnesota (2006, 2011, 2012).\n\nFrom 2016-2018 he was affiliated with Harvard University. He worked as Research Fellow at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study from 2016-17, and then as Visiting Scholar at the Center for European Studies.\n\nSince 2018 he has been a Research Fellow at the Institute for Philosophy at the Slovak Academy of Sciences in Bratislava. \n\nStewart is best known for his work in the fields of German idealism, existentialism, philosophy of religion, and Hegel and Kierkegaard studies. He has also done much to make the philosophy and culture of the Danish Golden Age better known internationally. His work is broadly interdisciplinary, touching on fields such as philosophy, religious studies, literature, history and Scandinavian Studies. His philosophical corpus includes research monographs, translations and editorial work. He is also known as an organizer and administrator of major research projects.\n\nStewart's first book, entitled \"The Unity of Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit: A Systematic Interpretation\" (Evanston, Illinois: Northwestern University Press) appeared in 2000. The subject of the book is a traditional problem in Hegel studies, concerning the unity of Hegel's book \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\". The long-term trend in Hegel studies has been to regard Hegel's remarks about the systematic nature of his philosophy as simply indefensible. In contrast to this Stewart argues that this view tends to obscure a good deal with respect to different analyses of Hegel's work and thought, since it takes them out of their larger context from which they ultimately derive their meaning and in which they were intended to be understood. In this way Stewart aims to understand the \"Phenomenology\" as a part of a larger philosophical system and as a coherent and unified philosophical work in its own right.\n\nStewart's second book, \"Kierkegaard's Relations to Hegel Reconsidered\" (New York: Cambridge University Press 2003) marked a major shift in Kierkegaard studies; and was widely reviewed in academic journals, as well as by a Danish newspaper. Before this book, a particular view of the relationship between Hegel and Kierkegaard had dominated most of the secondary literature (a view which was largely due to the influence of the Danish scholar Niels Thulstrup). In a series of articles and above all his influential book \"Kierkegaard's Relation to Hegel\" (trans. by George L. Stengren, Princeton: Princeton University Press 1980) Thulstrup presented what became the orthodox view of Kierkegaard's relation to Hegel. Thulstrup's main claim was that Kierkegaard has nothing whatsoever in common with Hegel. This view was profoundly influential in the secondary literature, and was taken up uncritically by a number of scholars of nineteenth-century European philosophy.\n\n\"Kierkegaard's Relations to Hegel Reconsidered\" challenges this standard view as over-simplistic. Stewart shows that when one examines Kierkegaard's works carefully, one finds that his relation to Hegel was in fact considerably more complicated than Thulstrup, and the standard view, would have one believe. At every stage of Kierkegaard's literary career, there were points of overlap between his thought and that of Hegel. Kierkegaard in fact had many different relations to Hegel that developed over time. Thus, it is impossible to speak, as Thulstrup and so many others would like to, of Kierkegaard's relation to Hegel. The individual passages in his works examined by Stewart display different kinds of relations: inspirational, revisionary, critical, etc.\n\n\"Kierkegaard's Relations to Hegel Reconsidered\" embodies a major theme of Stewart's work, which is simply the attempt to understand historical figures (such as Kierkegaard and his contemporaries) in terms of their own time and context. By beginning from historical sources, such as the books and journals in which the debates between Kierkegaard and his contemporaries were carried out, Stewart attempts to come to an understanding of how Kierkegaard would have understood himself. Stewart is perhaps best known as a major proponent of this historical approach to Kierkegaard (and, indeed, the Danish Golden Age in general). By attempting to understand how Kierkegaard would have understood himself, and how he would have been understood by his contemporaries, Stewart has exposed numerous mis-conceptions that stem from our previous lack of knowledge about Kierkegaard's place in the history and culture of Nineteenth Century Denmark. Chief among these mis-conceptions, in \"Kierkegaard's Relations to Hegel Reconsidered\", being Kierkegaard's relation to Hegel.\n\nIt is generally agreed by reviewers that \"Kierkegaard's Relations to Hegel Reconsidered\", made its mark on research in many different ways. For example, in addition to demonstrating the importance of Danish intellectual history and culture to understanding Kierkegaard, Stewart's work has spawned a wealth of interest in some of the individual figures of this movement such as Johan Ludvig Heiberg and Hans Lassen Martensen. Fourth, it has demonstrated the importance of source-work research in Kierkegaard studies.\n\nIn continuing to show the relevance of culture and history to understanding the intellectual and philosophical debates of the Danish Golden Age, in 2007 Stewart published \"A History of Hegelianism in Golden Age Denmark\", Tome I, \"The Heiberg Period: 1824-1836\" (Copenhagen: C.A. Reitzel 2007) and \"A History of Hegelianism in Golden Age Denmark\", Tome II, \"The Martensen Period: 1837-1842\" (Copenhagen: C.A. Reitzel 2007). These studies constitute the most detailed investigations into the influence of Hegel's philosophy on Danish Golden Age culture ever undertaken, and their significance and contribution acknowledge in reviews in the Danish press.\n\nIn 2010 Stewart published \"Idealism and Existentialism: Hegel and Nineteenth and Twentieth-Century European Philosophy\" (New York and London: Continuum International Publishing 2010). Here Stewart continues to develop the conclusions that he reached in \"Kierkegaard's Relations to Hegel Reconsidered\". The history of philosophy in the first half of the 19th century has been read as a confrontation between the overambitious rationalistic system of Hegel and the devastating criticisms of it by Kierkegaard. In this book Stewart undermines this popular view of the radical break between idealism and existentialism by means of a series of detailed studies in specific episodes of European thought. As a whole, this book represents an important attempt to demonstrate the long shadow cast by Kant and Hegel over the subsequent history of European philosophy.\n\nIn 2013 Stewart published \"The Unity of Content and Form in Philosophical Writing\", in which he argues that there is a close relation between content and form in philosophical writing. With this work he tries to demonstrate the uniformity of today’s philosophical writing by contrasting it with that of the past. Taking specific texts from the history of philosophy and literature as case studies, Stewart shows how the use of genres like dialogues, plays and short stories were an entirely suitable and effective means of presenting and arguing for philosophical positions given the concrete historical and cultural contexts in which they appeared. The book has been regarded as a challenge to current conventions of philosophical practice. Two conferences organized by the Hungarian Academy of Science were dedicated to this work: “The Registers of Philosophy I,” Budapest, Hungary, May 9, 2015 and “The Registers of Philosophy II,” Budapest, Hungary, May 14, 2016.\n\nIn 2013 Stewart created a MOOC for the University of Copenhagen entitled \"Søren Kierkegaard: Subjectivity, Irony and the Crisis of Modernity\". This course was launched as a free online course on the Coursera platform (https://www.coursera.org/course/kierkegaard). This introduction to Kierkegaard’s life and thought proved to be very successful with thousands of online students from around the world. In 2015 Stewart published a book with the same title, which was based on the online course. The book is thus an introductory text that attempts to introduce the thought of Søren Kierkegaard to first-time readers. \n\nStewart’s \"The Cultural Crisis of the Danish Golden Age: Heiberg, Martensen and Kierkegaard\" appeared in 2015. This work traces the different aspects and dimensions of what was perceived as a crisis by many of the intellectuals and artists of the period of the Danish Golden Age. But far from being something negative or destructive, it was a motivating and stimulating force that helped to make the period what is was. Stewart argues that the crisis can be seen as one of the central defining elements of what we know as Danish Golden Age culture. The work also tries to make the case that many of the key elements of the crisis can still be found in our modern world today. Johan Ludvig Heiberg’s diagnosis of the period as suffering from relativism, subjectivism and nihilism sounds strikingly familiar to the modern reader. When seen in this manner, the Danish Golden Age becomes profoundly interesting and relevant for the broad spectrum of problems of modernity.\n\nIn an attempt to promote historical source-work research, Stewart founded the translation series \"Texts from Golden Age Denmark\" in 2005. The idea behind this series was to present the international reader with classic texts from the Danish Golden Age that had some relevance for Kierkegaard's thought. In this way readers could judge for themselves the importance of these works. Each volume of the series presents key texts in dialogue with one another. The volumes are supplemented with detailed introductions and explanatory notes that put the featured texts into their proper historical perspective and indicate the numerous links to Kierkegaard's works. This series was published at C.A. Reitzel Publishers from 2005 until 2007, and since 2008 with Museum Tusculanum Press. This series has helped to change the way Scandinavian Studies has been taught in the Anglophone world. These texts have become standard reference works in Kierkegaard research.\n\nStewart has been involved in numerous editorial projects. Most notably, he was the editor-in-chief of the monumental series, \"Kierkegaard Research: Sources, Reception and Resources\". This series was published from 2007-2017, and with its 58 volumes is the largest series of Kierkegaard secondary literature ever undertaken. He is also the co-editor of the \"Kierkegaard Studies Yearbook\" and the \"Kierkegaard Studies Monograph Series\". He is also the founder and general editor of \"Danish Golden Age Studies\" and \"Texts from Golden Age Denmark\".\n\nStewart has won many distinguished awards and prizes, from among others the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, the Belgian American Educational Foundation, the Heinrich Hertz Foundation and the German Academic Exchange Service. He is an Honorary Member of the Sociedad Académica Kierkegaard, Mexico and the Biblioteca Kierkegaard Argentina. In 2000 he was the recipient of the Inger Sjöberg Translation Prize from the American-Scandinavian Foundation for his translation of Johan Ludvig Heiberg's \"On the Significance of Philosophy for the Present Age\". A special session of the American Søren Kierkegaard Society was dedicated to his book, \"Kierkegaard's Relations to Hegel Reconsidered\", at the Annual Meeting of American Academy of Religion in San Antonio, Texas on November 20, 2004. In 2011 a special issue of the Kierkegaard Newsletter (no. 58, November 2011) was dedicated to his work. In the same year Stewart gave the George W. Utech Memorial Kierkegaard Seminar at the Hong Kierkegaard Library at St. Olaf College.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56288965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56288965", "title": "Justin T. Moore", "text": "Justin T. Moore\n\nJustin Tatch Moore (born 1974) is a set theorist and logician. He is a full professor in mathematics at Cornell University. \n\nMoore received his Ph.D. in 2000 from the University of Toronto under the supervision of Stevo Todorcevic. He was an assistant professor in mathematics at Boise State University. In the fall of 2007, he joined the faculty at Cornell University.\n\nHis primary research area is Ramsey theory of infinite sets. He is known for solutions to the basis problem for uncountable linear orders and to the L space problem from general topology and for his work in determining the consequences of relating the continuum to certain values of the aleph function. Moore, together with his graduate and later his PhD student Yash Lodha, solved the von Neumann-Day problem, first described by mathematician John von Neumann in 1929. Lodha presented this solution at the London Mathematical Society's Geometric and Cohomological Group Theory symposium in August 2013.\n\nMoore won the \"Young Scholar's Competition\" award in 2006, in Vienna, Austria. The Competition was a part of the \"Horizons of Truth\" celebrating the Gödel Centenary 2006. He was an invited speaker at the ICM, Hyderabad 2010, Logic session, where he presented his solution to the problem of constructing an L-space. The L-space was constructed without assuming additional axioms and by combining Todorcevic's rho functions with number theory\n\nMoore is an editor for the Archive of Mathematical Logic where he handles papers in set theory. He was one of the organizers of the fall 2012 Thematic Program in Forcing and its Applications (Forcing Axioms and their Applications) at the Fields Institute.\nIn 2012, he was elected as a Fellow (Inaugural Class of Fellows) of the American Mathematical Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "3094198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3094198", "title": "Last man", "text": "Last man\n\nThe last man () is a term used by the philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" to describe the antithesis of his imagined superior being, the \"Übermensch\", whose imminent appearance is heralded by Zarathustra. The last man is tired of life, takes no risks, and seeks only comfort and security. \n\nThe last man's primary appearance is in \"Zarathustra's Prologue.\" According to Nietzsche, the last man is the goal that modern society and Western civilization have apparently set for themselves. After having unsuccessfully attempted to get the populace to accept the \"Übermensch\" as the goal of society, Zarathustra confronts them with a goal so disgusting that he assumes that it will revolt them. Zarathustra fails in this attempt, and instead of repelling and manipulating the populace into pursuing the goal of the Übermensch, the populace take Zarathustra literally and choose the \"disgusting\" goal of becoming the last men. This decision leaves Zarathustra disheartened and disappointed.\n\nThe lives of the last men are pacifist and comfortable. There is no longer a distinction between ruler and ruled, strong over weak or supreme over the mediocre. Social conflict and challenges are minimized. Every individual lives equally and in \"superficial\" harmony. There are no original or flourishing social trends and ideas. Individuality and creativity are suppressed. \n\nNietzsche warned that the society of the last man could be too barren and decadent to support the growth of healthy human life or great individuals. The last man is only possible by mankind having bred an apathetic person or ethnic group who are unable to dream, who are unwilling to take risks, and simply earn their living and keep warm. The society of the last man is antithetical to Nietzsche's theoretical will to power, the main driving force and ambition behind human nature, according to Nietzsche, as well as all other life in the universe. \n\nThe last man, Nietzsche predicted, would be one response to the problem of nihilism. But the full implications of the death of God had yet to unfold: \"The event itself is far too great, too distant, too remote from the multitude's capacity for comprehension even for the tidings of it to be thought of as having arrived as yet.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "21587789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21587789", "title": "Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion", "text": "Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion\n\nGeorg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion (LPR; , VPR) outlines his ideas on Christianity as a form of self-consciousness. They represent the final and in some ways the decisive element of his philosophical system. In light of his distinctive philosophical approach, using a method that is dialectical and historical, Hegel offers a radical reinterpretation of the meaning of Christianity and its characteristic doctrines. The approach taken in these lectures is to some extent prefigured in Hegel's first published book, \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\" (1807).\n\nHegel's conception and execution of the lectures differed significantly on each of the occasions he delivered them, in 1821, 1824, 1827, and 1831.\n\nThe first German edition was published at Berlin in 1832, the year after Hegel's death, as part of the posthumous \"Werke\" series. The book was rather hastily put together by Philip Marheineke, mainly from students' copies of the lectures delivered during different sessions, though it also contained matter taken from notes and outlines in Hegel's own handwriting.\n\nIn 1840, two of the Young Hegelians, Bruno Bauer and Karl Marx, began work on a second edition, which appeared under Marheineke's name. In the preparation of this second edition, the editors drew largely on several important papers found amongst Hegel's manuscripts, in which his ideas were developed in much greater detail than in any of the sketches previously used, including the \"Lectures on the Proofs of the Existence of God,\" which Hegel was revising for the press when he died. Marheineke had also fresh and very complete copies of the lectures made by some of Hegel's most distinguished pupils.\n\nYet, the book in the form in which we have it, remains an editorial compilation. No part of it, not even the part which is Hegel's actual composition, was intended for publication, and the informal and discursive character of the \"Lectures\" is apparent.\n\nIn the 1920s, Georg Lasson published a new edition within the \"Sämtliche Werke\" series. It used special types to differentiate the text of Hegel's manuscripts, from his students' notes, but stitched lectures from different session together, and cut out what Lasson viewed as repetitions. Although the result is not always praised today, his edition is useful to researches as he had access to manuscripts that have since been lost.\n\nIn 1990, Oxford University Press published a critical edition, separating the series of lectures and presenting them as independent units on the basis of a complete re-editing of the sources by Walter Jaeschke. This English translation was prepared by a team consisting of Robert F. Brown, Peter C. Hodgson, and J. Michael Stewart, with the assistance of H. S. Harris. The three volumes include editorial introductions, critical annotations on the text, textual variants, and tables, bibliography, and glossary.\n\n\"The Consummate [or Absolute] Religion\" is Hegel's name for Christianity, which he also designates \"the Revelatory [or Revealed] Religion.\" In these lectures, he offers a speculative reinterpretation of major Christian doctrines: the Trinity, the Creation, humanity, estrangement and evil, Christ, the Spirit, the spiritual community, church and world. These interpretations have had a powerful and controversial impact on modern theology.\n\nHegel expanded on Luther's idea of Christian liberty. He touches on pantheism, and discusses religions of India, China, Ancient Egypt, Ancient Greece, and Ancient Rome. It is the only work where he examines Islam. In the last of three volumes based on these lectures, Hegel discusses at length many different philosophical arguments for the existence of God.\n\nThe social anthropologist Sir James George Frazer wrote in a 1910 preface to \"The Golden Bough\", originally published in 1890, that while he had never studied Hegel, his friend James Ward, and the philosopher J. M. E. McTaggart, had both suggested to him that Hegel had anticipated his view of \"the nature and historical relations of magic and religion\". Frazer saw the resemblance as being that \"we both hold that in the mental evolution of humanity an age of magic preceded an age of religion, and that the characteristic difference between magic and religion is that, whereas magic aims at controlling nature directly, religion aims at controlling it indirectly through the mediation of a powerful supernatural being or beings to whom man appeals for help and protection.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10997765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10997765", "title": "Leo Dupont", "text": "Leo Dupont\n\nVenerable Leo Dupont (24 January 1797 – 18 March 1876), also known as \"The Holy Man of Tours,\" or the \"Apostle of the Holy Face\", was a Catholic who helped spread various Catholic devotions such as that of the Holy Face of Jesus and nightly Eucharistic Adoration. He was declared Venerable by the Holy See during Pope Pius XII's Pontificate and currently awaits Beatification.\n\nLeon Papin Dupont was born 24 January 1797 on the family sugar plantation in Martinique. His father was Nicholas Dupont, a wealthy French planter, his mother was a creole from Martinique, Marie-Louise Gaigneron de Marolles. His father died when Leo was six years old. Leon was schooled in Martinique and then in the United States while the French Revolution went on. He was then sent to France to further his education at the College of Pontlevoy, near the Chateau of Chissay, which belonged to his maternal uncle, the Comte Gaigneron de Marolles. He was by nature and upbringing religious from an early age. But along with his one brother Theobald he studied law in Paris.\n\nHe developed his religious viewpoint and was starting to perform numbers of good deeds. He confessed that he had begun merely on a feeling of culpability for having once missed Mass on Ascension day due to taking part on an excursion, but his spirituality quickly matured. In this period, Dupont associated with various religious figures including Saint Madeleine Sophie Barat, foundress of the Society of the Sacred Heart. Upon finishing his law degree, not having seen his mother for six years, he returned to Martinique. His brother Theobald died when Leo was about twenty-four years old in 1823.\n\nIn 1827, Leo Dupont married Caroline d'Andiffredi and in 1832 had a daughter Henrietta. However, Caroline died about a year after Henrietta was born. After the death of his wife, Dupont and his mother returned to France and in 1834 settled in Tours, where Dupont established a law practice.\n\nIn 1837, while gazing at a picture of Saint Teresa of Avila, Leo decided to become more active in spreading the Catholic faith. He wrote a book on Marian shrines, joined the recently formed Society of Saint Vincent de Paul and contributed large sums of money to it. Shortly after his pilgrimage to La Salette in 1847, his daughter Henrietta died and thereafter the main focus of his life became religious activities.\n\nIn 1847 Dupont invited Saint Jeanne Jugan to establish a house for the Little Sisters of the Poor in Tours. Thereafter he remained a frequent contributor to the Little Sisters' charity for the poor and the elderly.\n\nWhen Dupont came to Tours, the cult of Saint Martin had almost completely fallen into disuse. Two roads covered the location of St. Martin’s tomb, purposely constructed to obliterate the memory of St. Martin. Martin of Tours was, for Leo Dupont, the model of charity, and he desired to restore devotion to the Bishop of Tours, and begin the process for the eventual rebuilding of his basilica that had been destroyed by the Revolutionaries. Around 1848, following the suggestions of Mr. Dupont, the Cathedral of Tours began to restore the festivities surrounding the Feast of St. Martin on November 11. He helped rebuild the Basilica of St. Martin, Tours (which dated back to 472).\n\nIn 1849, he managed to establish nightly Eucharistic Adoration in Tours, from where it spread within France. To combat writers who were against the Holy Eucharist, Dupont wrote a book, \"Faith Revived and Piety Reanimated Through the Eucharist\".\n\nHis reputation as a Catholic activist and a helper of the poor spread within France and he was in contact with other French Catholic figures such as Saint Jean Vianney and Saint Peter Julian Eymard, who was also an active proponent of spreading devotion to the Holy Eucharist. Dupont’s charitable works and religious stance became so well known in France that he received many letters, often addressed to \"The Holy Man of Tours\" and the postmen knew how to deliver them. Pope Pius IX personally praised Dupont.\n\nDupont's mother lived with him most of his life in Tours and she died in 1860. After her death, from 1860 to 1870, he spent most of his time praying before the image of Veil of Veronica, often wearing a hair shirt under his clothes, until his health failed.\n\nApart from his other charitable activities, Dupont is perhaps best known for his impact on spreading the devotion to the Holy Face of Jesus. He is sometimes referred to as the \"Apostle of the Holy Face\".\n\nDupont made frequent donations to the Carmelites in Tours and managed their business affairs. He thus heard of the reported visions of Jesus and Mary by the Carmelite nun Sister Marie of St Peter from 1844 to 1847. Based on this, Dupont started to burn a vigil lamp continuously before a picture of the Holy Face of Jesus based on the painted image on the Veil of Veronica. Dupont used that image because the existence of a clear image on the Shroud of Turin was not known to anyone at that time for the somewhat faded image of the face on the Shroud can not easily be seen with the naked eye and was only observed in May 1898 via the negative plate of Secondo Pia's first photograph.\n\nDuring this time, Dupont also heavily promoted Vade Retro Satana and \"The Holy Face Protection Cross\" which on the front bears the words \"Sit Nomen Domini Benedictum\" (Blessed Be the Name of God) and on the reverse Vade Retro Satana (Begone, Satan). The Crossbeam shows the Sacred Heart on the right and the Immaculate Heart on the left and in the center is the reproduction of Veronica’s Veil.\n\nIn 1851 Dupont formed the \"Archconfraternity of the Holy Face\" in Tours. He prayed for and promoted the case for a devotion to the Holy Face of Jesus for around 30 years. The documents pertaining to the life of Sister Marie of St Peter and the devotion were kept by the Church and not released. Yet Dupont persisted. Eventually, in the year 1874 Charles-Théodore Colet was appointed as the new Archbishop of Tours. Archbishop Colet examined the documents and in 1876 gave permission for them to be published and the devotion encouraged, shortly before Dupont died. Dupont's followers have attributed the release of the documents to the power of prayers of Dupont over the previous 30 years.\n\nBy the end of his life Dupont had donated most of his fortune to a number of charities, from the Carmelites to various orphanages, Society of Saint Vincent de Paul and the Little Sisters of the Poor.\n\nLeo Dupont died in 1876. He was 79. Upon his death, his house on Rue St. Etienne was purchased by the Archdiocese of Tours and turned into the Oratory of the Holy Face. Archbishop Colet approved of an order of priests called the Priests of the Holy Face to administer to the chapel. The order was canonically erected in 1876 and Father Peter Javier, a friend of Dupont, was appointed as its director.\n\nFather Javier wrote a biography of Dupont and one of Sister Marie of St Peter and the Holy Face Devotion. These books were widely distributed and started the spread of the Holy Face Devotion. Years later they influenced Saint Therese of Lisieux. The Devotion to the Holy Face of Jesus was approved by Pope Leo XIII in 1885.\n\nThe case for Dupont's canonization was presented to the Congregation for the Causes of Saints in 1939. The Holy See later declared him Venerable and he now awaits beatification. His feast day is December 1.\n\nThe devotion to the Holy Face of Jesus that Dupont promoted continued to flourish after his death. In the 1930s, an Italian nun, Sister Maria Pierina De Micheli associated the image of the Holy Face of Jesus from the Shroud of Turin with the devotion. Pope Pius XII approved the new image in 1958 and declared the Feast of the Holy Face of Jesus as Shrove Tuesday (the Tuesday before Ash Wednesday) for all Roman Catholics.\n\n1950 saw the foundation of the Benedictine Congregation of the Sisters of Reparation of the Holy Face of Our Lord Jesus Christ, whose aim is an \"unceasing effort to stand beside the endless crosses on which the Son of God continues to be crucified.\"\n\nVenerable Leo Dupont's efforts in spreading the \"Devotion to the Holy Face of Jesus\" are chronicled in the book \"The Holy Man of Tours\" by Dorothy Scallan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8248698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8248698", "title": "Lorraine Daston", "text": "Lorraine Daston\n\nLorraine Daston (born June 9, 1951 in East Lansing, Michigan) is an American historian of science. Director of the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science (MPIWG) in Berlin, and visiting professor in the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago, she is an authority on Early Modern European scientific and intellectual history. In 1993, she was named a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She is a permanent fellow at the Berlin Institute for Advanced Study \n\n\nDaston divides her year between a nine-month period in Berlin, and a three-month period in Chicago, where she usually teaches a seminar and assists doctoral students. Her Chicago seminars usually take a textualist approach to philosophical, literary, and historical works; In a research capacity at MPIWG she heads the \"Ideals and Practices of Rationality\" working group, and has concentrated recently on the late-Enlightenment philosophical conceptualization of reason, and the subsequent rise of a rationality based in algorithms and rules. A frequent subject of past inquiry has been the naturalistic fallacy in philosophy and literature, or \"the almost irresistible temptation to attempt to extract moral norms from the world of nature.\" \n\nDaston was appointed the inaugural Humanitas Professor in the History of Ideas at University of Oxford for 2013. She has also held Oxford's Isaiah Berlin Visiting Professorship in Intellectual History. In 2002, she delivered two Tanner Lectures at Harvard University, in which she traced theoretical conceptions of nature in several literary and philosophical works.\n\nA number of her scholarly articles have been published in the journal of humanistic criticism Critical Inquiry. She also holds a seat on that journal's editorial board, and a recent feature on Daston can be seen on the Critical Inquiry website.\n\nDaston was awarded the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in 2010. In 2018 she received the Dan David Prize. She is married to the German psychologist and social scientist Gerd Gigerenzer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19963", "title": "Marsilio Ficino", "text": "Marsilio Ficino\n\nMarsilio Ficino (; Latin name: \"Marsilius Ficinus\"; 19 October 1433 – 1 October 1499) was an Italian scholar and Catholic priest who was one of the most influential humanist philosophers of the early Italian Renaissance. He was an astrologer, a reviver of Neoplatonism in touch with the major academics of his day and the first translator of Plato's complete extant works into Latin. His Florentine Academy, an attempt to revive Plato's Academy, influenced the direction and tenor of the Italian Renaissance and the development of European philosophy.\n\nFicino was born at Figline Valdarno. His father Diotifeci d'Agnolo was a physician under the patronage of Cosimo de' Medici, who took the young man into his household and became the lifelong patron of Marsilio, who was made tutor to his grandson, Lorenzo de' Medici. Giovanni Pico della Mirandola, the Italian humanist philosopher and scholar was another of his students.\n\nDuring the sessions at Florence of the Council of Ferrara-Florence in 1438–1445, during the failed attempts to heal the schism of the Orthodox and Catholic churches, Cosimo de' Medici and his intellectual circle had made acquaintance with the Neoplatonic philosopher George Gemistos Plethon, whose discourses upon Plato and the Alexandrian mystics so fascinated the learned society of Florence that they named him the second Plato. In 1459 John Argyropoulos was lecturing on Greek language and literature at Florence, and Ficino became his pupil.\n\nWhen Cosimo decided to refound Plato's Academy at Florence he chose Ficino as its head. In 1462, Cosimo supplied Ficino with Greek manuscripts of Plato's work, whereupon Ficino started translating the entire corpus to Latin (draft translation of the dialogues finished 1468–9; published 1484). Ficino also produced a translation of a collection of Hellenistic Greek documents found by Leonardo da Pistoia later called Hermetica, and the writings of many of the Neoplatonists, including Porphyry, Iamblichus and Plotinus.\n\nAmong his many students was Francesco Cattani da Diacceto, who was considered by Ficino to be his successor as the head of the Florentine Platonic Academy. Diacceto's student, Giovanni di Bardo Corsi, produced a short biography of Ficino in 1506.\n\nA physician and a vegetarian, Ficino became a priest in 1473.\n\nIn 1474 Ficino completed his treatise on the immortality of the soul, \"Theologia Platonica de immortalitate animae\" (Platonic Theology). In the rush of enthusiasm for every rediscovery from Antiquity, he exhibited a great interest in the arts of astrology, which landed him in trouble with the Roman Catholic Church. In 1489 he was accused of magic before Pope Innocent VIII and needed strong defense to preserve him from the condemnation of heresy.\n\nWriting in 1492 Ficino proclaimed: \"This century, like a golden age, has restored to light the liberal arts, which were almost extinct: grammar, poetry, rhetoric, painting, sculpture, architecture, music ... this century appears to have perfected astrology.\"\n\nFicino's letters, extending over the years 1474–1494, survive and have been published. He wrote \"De amore\" (1484). \"De vita libri tres\" (Three books on life), or \"De triplici vita\", published in 1489, provides a great deal of medical and astrological advice for maintaining health and vigor, as well as espousing the Neoplatonist view of the world's ensoulment and its integration with the human soul:\nOne metaphor for this integrated \"aliveness\" is Ficino's astrology. In the \"Book of Life\", he details the interlinks between behavior and consequence. It talks about a list of things that hold sway over a man's destiny.\n\nProbably due to early influences from his father Diotifeci, who was a doctor to Cosimo de' Medici, Ficino published Latin and Italian treatises on medical subjects such as \"Consiglio contro la pestilenza\" (Recommendations for the treatment of the plague) and \"De vita libri tres\" (Three books on life). His medical works exerted considerable influence on Renaissance physicians such as Paracelsus, with whom he shared the perception on the unity of the micro- and macrocosmos, and their interactions, through somatic and psychological manifestations, with the aim to investigate their signatures to cure diseases. Those works, which were very popular at the time, dealt with astrological and alchemical concepts. Thus Ficino came under the suspicion of heresy; especially after the publication of the third book in 1489, which contained specific instructions on healthful living.\n\nFicino introduced the term and concept of \"platonic love\" in the West. It first appeared in a letter to Alamanno Donati in 1476, but was later fully developed all along his work, mainly his famous \"De amore\". He also practiced this love metaphysic with Giovanni Cavalcanti, whom he made the principal character in his commentary on the \"Convivio\", and to whom he wrote ardent love letters in Latin that were published in his \"Epistulae\" in 1492; there are also numerous other indications to suggest that Ficino's erotic impulses were directed exclusively towards men. After his death his biographers had a difficult task trying to refute those who spoke of his homosexual tendencies. But his sincere and deep faith, and membership of the clergy, put him beyond the reach of gossip, and while praising love for the same sex, he also condemned sodomy in the \"Convivium\". His Latin translations of Plato's texts put into practice the theories of anti-homosexuality in his \"Convivium\".\n\nFicino died on 1 October 1499 at Careggi. In 1521 his memory was honored with a bust sculpted by Andrea Ferrucci, which is located in the south side of the nave in the Cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53728899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53728899", "title": "Nuori Voima", "text": "Nuori Voima\n\nNuori Voima (meaning \"Youthful Vigor\" in English) is a Finnish literary and cultural magazine which has been published since 1908. It is headquartered in Helsinki, Finland. Both the magazine and its parent organization, Nuoren Voiman Liitto, are among the well-respected institutions in Finland. \n\n\"Nuori Voima\" was founded in 1908. The magazine is part of Nuoren Voiman Liitto, a non-profit literature organization. It is published five times a year. The magazine produces themetical issues. It features literary work and articles written about art, philosophy, culture and society. It has a twice a year literary critic supplement, \"Kritiikki\".\n\nSome of the significant international contributors to \"Nuori Voima\" include French philosophers Roland Barthes, Jacques Derrida and Michel Foucault as well as Jacques Lacan. The magazine also featured work by Walter Benjamin, Mikhail Bakhtin and Peter Sloterdijk among the others. Finnish poet Olavi Paavolainen started his career in the magazine.\n\nMartti-Tapio Kuuskoski was the editor-in-chief of \"Nuori Voima\".\n"}
{"id": "886000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=886000", "title": "Open-question argument", "text": "Open-question argument\n\nThe open-question argument is a philosophical argument put forward by British philosopher G. E. Moore in §13 of \"Principia Ethica\" (1903), to refute the equating of the property of goodness with some non-moral property, X, whether naturalistic (e.g. pleasure) or supernatural (e.g. God's command). That is, Moore's argument attempts to show that no moral property is identical to a natural property. The argument takes the form of syllogistic modus tollens:\n\nThe type of question Moore refers to in this argument is an identity question, \"Is it true that X is \"Y\"?\" Such a question is an \"open question\" if a conceptually competent speaker can question this; otherwise the question is \"closed.\" For example, \"I know he is a vegan, but does he eat meat?\" would be a closed question. However, \"I know that it is pleasurable, but is it good?\" is an open question; the question cannot be deduced from the conceptual terms alone.\n\nThe open-question argument claims that any attempt to identify morality with some set of observable, natural properties will always be an open question (unlike, say, a horse, which can be defined in terms of observable properties). Moore further argued that if this is true, then moral facts cannot be reduced to natural properties and that therefore ethical naturalism is false. Put another way, what Moore is saying is that any attempt to define good in terms of a naturalistic property fails because all definitions can be transformed into closed questions (the subject and predicate being conceptually identical; it is given in language itself that the two terms mean the same thing); however, all purported naturalistic definitions of good are transformable into open questions. It is still controversial whether good is the same thing as pleasure, etc. Shortly before (in section §11), Moore said if good is defined as pleasure (or any other naturalistic property) \"good\" may be substituted for \"pleasure\" anywhere it occurs. However, \"pleasure is good\" is a meaningful, informative statement; but \"good is good\" (after making the substitution) is an empty, non-informative tautology.\n\nThe idea that Moore begs the question (i.e. assumes the conclusion in a premise) was first raised by W. Frankena. Since analytic equivalency, for two objects X and Y, logically results in the question \"Is it true that X is Y?\" being meaningless (by Moore's own argument), to say that the question is meaningless is to concede analytic equivalency. Thus Moore begs the question in the second premise. He assumes that the question is a meaningful one (i.e. that it is an open question). This begs the question and the open-question argument thus fails.\n\nIn response to this, the open-question argument can be reformulated. The Darwall-Gibbard-Railton reformulation argues for the impossibility of equating a moral property with a non-moral one using the internalist theory of motivation.\nThis evidently presupposes the internalist theory of motivation (i.e. a belief can itself motivate), in contrast to the externalist theory of motivation, also known as the Humean theory of motivation (i.e. both a belief and a desire are required to motivate). If internalism is true, then the OQA avoids begging the question against the naturalist, and succeeds in showing that the good cannot be equated to some other property.\n\nThe argument is also contested on the grounds of the supremacy of internalism. Internalism is supported by the belief–desire–intention model of motivation, whereby desire (i.e. that some proposition ought to be made or kept true) and belief (i.e. that some proposition is true) combine to form intention, and thereby, action. To argue for the special motivational effects of moral beliefs is to commit the fallacy of special pleading.\n\nThe main assumption within the open-question argument can be found within premise 1. It is assumed that analytic equivalency will result in meaningless analysis. Thus, if we understand Concept C, and Concept C* can be analysed in terms of Concept C, then we should grasp concept C* by virtue of our understanding of Concept C. Yet it is obvious that such understanding of Concept C* only comes about through the analysis proper. Mathematics would be the prime example: mathematics is tautological and its claims are true by definition, yet we can develop new mathematical conceptions and theorems. Thus, X (i.e. some non-moral property) might well be analytically equivalent to the good, and still the question of \"Is \"X\" good?\" can be meaningful. Ergo premise 1 does not hold and the argument falls.\n\nSense and reference are two different aspects of some terms' meanings. A term's \"reference\" is the \"object\" to which the term refers, while the term's \"sense\" is the \"way\" that the term refers to that object. \n\nThere is a difference between the sense of a term and its reference (i.e. the object itself). Thus, we can understand a claim like \"goodness is identical with pleasure\" as an \"a posteriori\" identity claim similar to \"Water is HO\". The question \"This is HO but is it water?\" is intelligible and so, in that limited sense, whether or not water is HO is an open question; note that this does not address the issue of significance. But that does not lead us to conclude that water is not HO. \"Water is HO\" is an identity claim that is known to be true \"a posteriori\" (i.e., it was discovered via empirical investigation). Another example is \"redness\" being identical to certain phenomena of electromagnetism. This is discovered by empirical investigation. Similarly, many moral naturalists argue that \"rightness\" can be discovered as an \"a posteriori\" truth, by investigating the different claims, like that of pleasure being the good, or of duty being the good.\n\nThis is done by invoking rightness and wrongness to explain certain empirical phenomena, and then discovering \"a posteriori\" whether maximizing utility occupies the relevant explanatory role. For example, they argue that since right actions contingently have certain effects e.g. being causally responsible for a tendency towards social stability—so it follows we can fix the term \"right\" refer to the empirical description \"the property of acts, whatever it is, that is causally responsible for their tendency towards social stability.\" With this description for \"right,\" we can then investigate which acts accomplish this: e.g. those actions that maximize utility. We can then conclude that we have learned that \"right\" refers to \"maximizing utility\" through \"a posteriori\" means.\n\nThe Frege sense–reference distinction can be understood in layman's terms by using the analogy of the Masked Man. A citizen living on the frontiers of the Wild West is told by the sheriff that his brother is the Masked Man who has recently been robbing banks. The citizen protests that he understands who his brother is, and who the Masked Man is supposed to be, and can meaningfully ask, \"Is my brother the Masked Man?\" Obviously, analytic equivalency is of no relevance here. The matter is an empirical one, which the citizen must investigate a posteriori. The absurdity of dismissing the claim as such is apparent.\n\nHowever, the above account of a sort of \"a posteriori\" moral search is unsatisfactory in that normal value, and not moral value, can be used to explain the relevant events. Normal value arises from the relationship between desire and a state of affairs. People tend also to objectify such value, into categorical moral value, though this is fallacious. So, a situation that can be explained by the existence of real moral value (e.g. the fulfillment of preferences, the tendency towards social stability) can also be explained by non-moral value. This explanation is far simpler, given the ontological difficulties surrounding moral value. As J. L. Mackie argued with his argument from queerness, moral values (i.e. oughts) that exist in the natural world (of facts), is highly queer, and we ought to favour a completely naturalistic explanation instead.\n\nAnother problem with the \"a posteriori\" moral search is that we lack an epistemic account of how we access moral facts. This is the epistemic aspect of Mackie's argument from queerness. Failing such an account, the postulation of moral value will be egregious.\n"}
{"id": "8924014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8924014", "title": "Peake's Commentary on the Bible", "text": "Peake's Commentary on the Bible\n\nPeake's Commentary on the Bible is a one-volume commentary on the Bible that gives special attention to biblical archaeology and the then-recent discoveries of biblical manuscripts.\n\nPeake's commentary was first published in 1919 as A Commentary on the Bible, edited by Arthur Samuel Peake (1865–1929) with the assistance of A. J. Grieve for the New Testament. There were 61 contributors, writing 96 articles. Its length was 1014 pages + 8 maps. Biblical quotation in this edition was from the Revised Version of the Bible.\n\nThe revised 1962 edition was edited by Matthew Black (1908–1994), the General and New Testament Editor and Harold Henry Rowley (1890–1969), the Old Testament editor. This edition was completely rewritten but on the same plan as its predecessor, including 103 articles. Black's \"Preface\" pays tribute to the original; \"About one thing there was no question: there could be no departure from the Peake tradition of accurate and reliable popular scholarship.\" Its length was 1126 pages + 16 maps. The new edition is based on the Revised Standard Version. The 62 contributors are from all branches of Protestantism in Europe and America. Its aim is to present to the layperson the \"generally accepted results of Biblical Criticism, Interpretation, History and Theology\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42167069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42167069", "title": "Peter Trawny", "text": "Peter Trawny\n\nPeter Trawny (born December 17, 1964 in Gelsenkirchen) is a German philosopher and professor at the University of Wuppertal.\n\nPeter Trawny studied philosophy, musicology and art history at the Ruhr University Bochum, where he, after a guest stay at the Albert Ludwigs University in Freiburg in Breisgau and at the University of Basel, the Magisterium graduated in 1992. In 1995, he received his doctorate at Klaus Held with a dissertation on Martin Heidegger's phenomenology of the world. With a doctoral scholarship from the Study Foundation of the German people, he was promoted and awarded in 1997 with the Second Prize of all faculties of the University of Wuppertal. This was followed by a two-month stay at the University of Kyoto in Japan with a grant from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. Starting in 1997, Trawny was a research assistant at the University of Wuppertal in Klaus Held's department of phenomenology.\n\nIn 2000 he completed his habilitation at the University of Wuppertal about the time of the Trinity. Studies on the Trinity in Hegel and Schelling. Sponsored by the Fritz Thyssen Foundation, after his habilitation he worked from 2001 to 2003 at the philosophy department of the Freiburg Albert Ludwigs University. In 2005, the German Literature Archive in Marbach on Neckar granted Trawny a full scholarship and honored him in 2006 with the Ernst Jünger grant from the State of Baden-Wuerttemberg. In the same year he was appointed associate professor of philosophy at the University of Wuppertal. 2009 brought Trawny a W3 professorship at the University of Wuppertal for aesthetics and philosophy of culture. In 2011 he assumed a deputy professor at the Södertörns Högskola in Stockholm at the Center for Baltic and East European Studies. In 2012 Trawny founded the Martin Heidegger Institut in German at the Bergische Universität in Wuppertal, for whose support he would win, among others, the legacy of Heidegger.\n\nTrawny taught in addition to his international lecturing and research as a Visiting Professor at several international universities such as the University of Vienna, the Tongji University in Shanghai or Södertörns Högskola in Stockholm at the Center for Baltic and East European Studies.\n\nTrawnys approach to philosophical problems uses a phenomenological-hermeneutic method. The focus of his work are questions of political philosophy, ethics, art and media philosophy, as well as questions of art and literature.\n\nIn his most recent works, Trawny dedicated to the elaboration of a philosophical understanding of globalization and cosmopolitanism, which in itself Adyton suggests, and especially in medium and Revolution clearly differentiated. Trawny tries to interpret the globalization of their strained relationship with the media and thus comes to a determination of the medium as \"the immaterial unity of technology and capital\". On the basis of Heidegger's event thinking tries Trawny the Marxist revolution discourse in the historical-contextual conditions of the 21st Century to translate, thus intertwined with those of its designation of the medium, the questions of political philosophy and media art philosophy.\n\nIn addition to his research and teaching, Trawny is consistently involved in the scholarly edition of Martin Heidegger's collected works.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14727765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14727765", "title": "Platonism in the Renaissance", "text": "Platonism in the Renaissance\n\nPlatonism, especially in its Neoplatonist form, underwent a revival in the Renaissance, as part of a general revival of interest in Classical antiquity. Interest in Platonism was especially strong in Florence under the Medici.\n\nDuring the sessions at Florence of the Council of Ferrara-Florence in 1438–1445, during the failed attempts to heal the schism of the Orthodox and Catholic churches, Cosimo de' Medici and his intellectual circle had made acquaintance with the Neoplatonic philosopher, George Gemistos Plethon, whose discourses upon Plato and the Alexandrian mystics so fascinated the learned society of Florence that they named him the second Plato. In 1459, John Argyropoulos was lecturing on Greek language and literature at Florence, and Marsilio Ficino became his pupil. When Cosimo decided to refound Plato's Academy at Florence, his choice to head it was Ficino, who made the classic translation of Plato from Greek to Latin (published in 1484), as well as a translation of a collection of Hellenistic Greek documents of the Hermetic Corpus, and the writings of many of the Neoplatonists, for example, Porphyry, Iamblichus, Plotinus, and others. Following suggestions laid out by Gemistos Plethon, Ficino tried to synthesize Christianity and Platonism.\n\nFicino's student, Giovanni Pico della Mirandola, also based his ideas chiefly on Plato, but Pico retained a deep respect for Aristotle. Although he was a product of the \"studia humanitatis\", Pico was constitutionally an eclectic, and in some respects he represented a reaction against the exaggerations of pure humanism, defending what he believed to be the best of the medieval and Islamic commentators (see Averroes, Avicenna) on Aristotle in a famous long letter to Ermolao Barbaro in 1485. It was always Pico’s aim to reconcile the schools of Plato and Aristotle, since he believed they both used different words to express the same concepts. It was perhaps for this reason his friends called him \"Princeps Concordiae, or \"Prince of Harmony\" (a pun on Prince of Concordia, one of his family’s holdings.) Similarly, Pico believed an educated person also should study the Hebrew and Talmudic sources, and the Hermetics, because he believed they represented the same view seen in the Old Testament, in different words, of God. \n\nThe writings attributed to Hermes Trismegistus had played an important role in the Renaissance Neoplatonic revival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35966574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35966574", "title": "Priscilla Cohn", "text": "Priscilla Cohn\n\nPriscilla N. Cohn is Emerita Professor of Philosophy at Pennsylvania State University. She is the associate director of the Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics, and co-editor with of the Centre's \"Journal of Animal Ethics\". She began teaching Philosophy at Bryn Mawr College where she gained her PhD on the work of Heidegger. She has taught Philosophy for more than 35 years, and has written on animals, environmental issues, and ethical problems, as well as on contemporary philosophers and the history of philosophy, publishing in both English and Spanish. \n\nShe was made full Professor in Philosophy at Pennsylvania State University in 1982, and was made Professor Emerita at Pennsylvania State University Abington in 2001. She has pioneered courses in animal ethics and lectured on five continents. For three years, 1990-1993, she was Director of the Summer School Course in animal rights at Complutense University (Madrid) at El Escorial – which were the first courses of their kind in Spain. She also taught at the Graduate School Course on Applied Ethics at the University of Santiago de Compostela in 1991. One of her books, Etica aplicada (Applied Ethics, 1981) written with José Ferrater Mora, contained the first essay on animal rights published in Spain. She has published 7 books, including: Contraception in Wildlife, Book I., edited with E. D. Plotka and U. S. Seal, in 1996 and Ethics and Wildlife in 1999, both published by The Edwin Mellen Press.Complutense University of Madrid in 1990..\nHer interest in wildlife is reflected in her work as the founder and director of PNC, Inc a nonprofit animal rights foundation that organised the first international conference on contraception in wildlife in the United States and initiated and funded the first PZP fertility control study on white-tailed deer. She has been a board member of The Fund for Animals and Humane USA. PAC.\n\n"}
{"id": "19890479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19890479", "title": "Probabilistic logic network", "text": "Probabilistic logic network\n\nA probabilistic logic network (PLN) is a conceptual, mathematical and computational approach to uncertain inference; inspired by logic programming, but using probabilities in place of crisp (true/false) truth values, and fractional uncertainty in place of crisp known/unknown values. In order to carry out effective reasoning in real-world circumstances, artificial intelligence software must robustly handle uncertainty. However, previous approaches to uncertain inference do not have the breadth of scope required to provide an integrated treatment of the disparate forms of cognitively critical uncertainty as they manifest themselves within the various forms of pragmatic inference. Going beyond prior probabilistic approaches to uncertain inference, PLN is able to encompass within uncertain logic such ideas as induction, abduction, analogy, fuzziness and speculation, and reasoning about time and causality.\n\nPLN was developed by Ben Goertzel, Matt Ikle, Izabela Lyon Freire Goertzel and Ari Heljakka for use as a cognitive algorithm used by MindAgents within the OpenCog Core. PLN was developed originally for use within the Novamente Cognition Engine.\n\nThe basic goal of PLN is to provide reasonably accurate probabilistic inference in a way that is compatible with both term logic and predicate logic, and scales up to operate in real time on large dynamic knowledge bases.\n\nThe goal underlying the theoretical development of PLN has been the creation of practical software systems carrying out complex, useful inferences based on uncertain knowledge and drawing uncertain conclusions. PLN has been designed to allow basic probabilistic inference to interact with other kinds of inference such as intensional inference, fuzzy inference, and higher-order inference using quantifiers, variables, and combinators, and be a more convenient approach than Bayesian networks (or other conventional approaches) for the purpose of interfacing basic probabilistic inference with these other sorts of inference. In addition, the inference rules are formulated in such a way as to avoid the paradoxes of Dempster-Shafer theory.\n\nPLN begins with a term logic foundation, and then adds on elements of probabilistic and combinatory logic, as well as some aspects of predicate logic and autoepistemic logic, to form a complete inference system, tailored for easy integration with software components embodying other (not explicitly logical) aspects of intelligence.\n\nPLN represents truth values as intervals, but with different semantics than in Imprecise Probability Theory. In addition to the interpretation of truth in a probabilistic fashion, a truth value in PLN also has an associated amount of \"certainty\". This generalizes the notion of truth values used in autoepistemic logic, where truth values are either known or unknown, and when known, are either true or false.\n\nThe current version of PLN has been used in narrow-AI applications such as the inference of biological hypotheses from knowledge extracted from biological texts via language processing, and to assist the reinforcement learning of an embodied agent, in a simple virtual world, as it is taught to play \"fetch\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53089798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53089798", "title": "Prophets of Deceit", "text": "Prophets of Deceit\n\nProphets of Deceit (A Study of the Techniques of the American Agitator) is a 1949 book co-written by the German sociologist Leo Löwenthal and the Polish-Jewish scholar Norbert Guterman. The authors analyze and define media appeals specific to American pro-fascist and anti-Semite agitators of the 1940s, such as the application of psychosocial manipulation for political ends. The book details psychological deceits that idealogues or authoritarians commonly used. The techniques are grouped under the headings \"Discontent\", \"The Opponent\", \"The Movement\" and \"The Leader\".\n\nThe authors demonstrate repetitive patterns commonly utilized, such as turning unfocused social discontent towards a targeted enemy. The agitator positions himself as a unifying presence: he is the ideal, the only leader capable of freeing his audience from the perceived enemy. Yet, as the authors demonstrate, he is a shallow person who creates social or racial disharmony, thereby reinforcing that his leadership is needed. The authors believed fascist tendencies in America were at an early stage in the 1940s, but warned a time might come when Americans could and would be \"susceptible to ... [the] psychological manipulation\" of a rabble rouser.\n\n\"Prophets of Deceit\" was published by Harper and Brothers as the first in a multi-volume series edited by Max Horkheimer and Samuel Flowerman for the American Jewish Committee's \"Studies in Prejudice Series\". It was well received by critics and political analysts, and was considered a valuable contribution to mid-20th century studies of prejudice.\n\n\"Studies in Prejudice Series\" was a research project to produce a sociological study of prejudice in America in the 1930s and 1940s. The authors were German refugees living in the US, with first-hand experience of the Nazi regime, which imbues their work with a \"tremendous vitality and a sense of relevance\". During their exile from Germany, while living in Los Angeles, Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno, both members of the Frankfurt School and working in conjunction with the Institute for Social Research, undertook an expansive research study of what they saw as a shift in spirit, a worldwide movement, which \"defined not only mass culture in the United States but also the administrated cultures of the Third Reich and Stalin's Soviet Union.\"\n\nIn 1943 the Institute for Social Research partnered with the American Jewish Committee to investigate American anti-Semitism and publish a multi-volume research study. Horkheimer believed that the scrutiny had to be focused on the agitators, the manipulators, and he thought that in America there was a latent threat of mass anti-Semitism.\n\nAdorno and Löwenthal each conducted research studies of right-wing American radio broadcasts; but Adorno's study was never published. Instead \"Prophets of Deceit\" was published as a \"scholarly version of the planned popular handbook.\" It was a psychosocial analysis of a comprehensive study of actual radio speeches and writings of fascists active in the US in the 1930s and 40s.\n\nThe first chapter, (\"The Themes of Agitation\"), presents samples of an agitator's diatribe, which might be mistaken as \"simply ... the raving of a maniac\". Generally agitators rely on core motifs, labeled as \"Discontent\", \"The Opponent\", \"The Movement\" and \"The Leader\".\n\n\"Social Malaise\", the second chapter, examines how social malaise or discontent can be manipulated by converting perceived problems into grievances. The response to economic grievances is to say that \"too much help is being extended to foreign nations”, that not only are \"foreigners taking our money, they also threaten our jobs\". Political grievances are addressed by the call to action against international \"commitments by the United States government [that] jeopardize political liberties.\" Media outlets are the source of cultural grievances, and labeled \"the enemies of the nation\", while other enemies are depicted as morally lax, \"a crowd of Marxists, refugees, [and] left-wing internationalists.\"\n\nThe outer world is painted as hostile and filled with enemies in the third chapter (\"A Hostile World\"). The agitator positions himself as \"a bone fide advocate of social change\", but in doing so intentionally ”crystallizes and hardens these feelings” of hostility. The remedy is his supposed superior knowledge, which he offers as a shield. He convinces his audience that it needs his guidance because they are victims, cheated by a \"comprehensive and carefully planned political conspiracy\". He offers himself \"a champion of democracy and Christianity\", and as the only person who will solve grievances.\nChapter IV, (\"The Ruthless Enemy\"), outlines how a political enemy, deemed responsible for the audience's suffering, is necessary to the agitator. The enemy is cast as evil, \"an alien body in society which has no useful productive function.\" The next chapter (\"The Helpless Enemy”) exposes the ways the enemy is vilified, portrayed as a criminal, degenerate, a low animal, concepts meant to instill loathing. A specific enemy is identified, such as Jews (Chapter VI (\"The Enemy as Jew\"), though the agitator does not stop there, but frequently \"denounces communists, plutocrats, refugees without qualification.\" A convoluted argument is put forth that Jews are persecuted because they deserve persecution, and furthermore that Jews are the persecutors. Antisemitism is disavowed as the agitator claims to be \"a friend of the Jews.\" Having provided his own definition for the causes of the social malaise, \"as a would be leader of a popular movement\" he sets goals for improvement in Chapter VII (\"A Home for the Homeless\"); however his solutions are found to be empty promises. His political or economic goals are motivated by little more than a desire \"go one better than the government, his most dangerous competitor.\"\n\nFollowers are provided neither with hope nor positive ideas for change; agitation is historically distinguished by a complete lack of positive change. Chapter VIII (\"The Follower\") explains that adherents are made to believe the enemy will only be vanquished through means of a movement and by following the leader's dictates. External forces said to threaten American society are emphasized. The size of the movement is quantified, with claims that it consists \"75% of the American people\". In Chapter IX (\"The Leader\") he positions himself as someone with special skills, whose interests support theirs, someone who is \"one of the plain folk ... yet far above them.\" Unlike Hitler or Mussolini, who broke with society and abandoned democratic, Chapter X (\"Self-Portrait of the Agitator\") shows how the American agitator \"dares not repudiate established morality and democratic values\". Yet the themes, as exposed in the book, do \"not prevent him from conveying the principal social tenets of totalitarianism.\"\n\nIn the closing chapter (\"What the Listener Heard\"), the authors discuss the listener's reactions. They view them as generally drawn to the idea of success, while against \"bureaucrats, Jews, congressmen, plutocrats, communists ... He grumbles against the foreigners who come to this country and get good jobs.\" Löwenthal and Guterman emphasize that American agitators have historically failed to gain traction and are usually marginalized. They warn, however, that under certain circumstances, such as loss of security for the middle class, America should contemplate the \"possibility in which a situation will arise in which large numbers of people would be susceptible to his psychological manipulation\".\n\nLöwenthal and Guterman examined the latent content of the political agitator's speeches and writings, treating and examining them more comprehensively than any other work of the period. They found that agitators typically employ 21 common tactics in their speeches, such as characterizing the enemy as a low animal (i.e. vermin), or building up an image of a folksy \"chosen leader who responds to an inner call.\" They explain the successes of mid-20th century demagogues such as Gerald L. K. Smith, Carl H. Mote, William Dudley Pelley, Joe McWilliams, and Charles Coughlin. The authors' purpose was subject appeal of these messages to a thorough analysis, to inoculate future generations of Americans against demagogues and ideologues – the \"prophets of deceit\".\n\nThe authors define the difference between the goals of an agitator, revolutionary and reformer. The latter seeks social change and has a clear vision of his goals. An agitator seeks rejection of the status quo and instills intolerance against groups or individuals. An agitator presents himself as an advocate for social change with the purpose of defeating the underlying causes of discontent, builds a movement and proclaims himself its leader; he is \"in fact, full of reactionary cliches about 'the good old days' and the 'simple American Way which our ancestors loved'.\" Yet the agitator fails to analyze causes of discontent, but \"seems to require only the willingness to relinquish inhibition ... No resentment is too small for the agitator's attention.\"\n\nLöwenthal and Guterman theorize that right-wing agitation increases social dissatisfaction, while simultaneously hampering rational responses to it. Much of the basis of pro-fascist and antisemitic propaganda appears to be irrational in substance, yet Löwenthal's research revealed that it was planned and calculated to achieve a specific response. Paul Apostolidos writes that \"Prophets in Deceit\" \"precisely catalogues the techniques used by the agitator to promote irrationalism in his audience.\" Pro-fascist sentiment in America in the 1940s was not spontaneous, more grounded on long held beliefs, which Löwenthal labeled social malaise.\n\nThe authors explain the methods the Christian right use to capitalize on advantage of widespread social malaise. They sow \"the suspicion that mysterious social powers are penetrating a 'hoax' on the majority of the people and depriving them of society's fruits\". These suspicions create a widespread feeling of helplessness, disillusionment, and fear of disaster. According to Löwenthal and Guterman, the social discontent is real, it \"reflects the stresses imposed on the individual by the profound transformations taking place in our economic and social structure – the replacement of the class of small independent producers by gigantic industrial bureaucracies, the decay of the patriarchal family, the breakdown of primary personal ties between individuals in an increasingly mechanized world … the substitution of mass culture for traditional patterns.\" A political agitator will manipulate existing social discontent, distortion the underlying causes, with in turn results in irrational responses and actions. The agitator will trick and mislead his audience, then through \"the guise of protest against the oppressive situation, the agitator binds the audience to it ... The agitator does not create the malaise, but he aggravates and fixates it because he bars the path to overcoming it.\" Christian right agitation is sophisticated trickery, which cannot and will not provide solutions to the public, but will only cause a \"despairing obsession with its own suffering.\"\n\nOften the message is contradictory and nonsensical, yet based on psychological manipulation. To the majority he \"may sound crazy, but he knows, with a knowledge that is largely intuitive, precisely what he is doing.\" He kindles fury and fear in his audience, yet keeps them in check, reminding them that they \"are still weak and can free themselves from the enemy's tyranny only be submitting unconditionally to his leadership.\" Löwenthal and Guterman demonstrate Adorno's belief that the greatest danger to American democracy is manipulation of mass culture: radio, television, and film. The authors feared a time when an American audience could be manipulated via similar techniques and psychological means.\n\nThe volume was well received on publication. \"The New York Times\", in 1949, wrote that it is \"beyond all doubt the most illuminating study of the techniques and the propaganda of the native American Fascist which has yet appeared.\" The \"American Journal of Sociology\"'s review, written by Wrong, mentions that the study falters in its attempt to find exact parallels between America and European fascist dictators, but its value \"to American social scientists is not the least of its virtues\". Alfred McClung Lee wrote in his review in \"Public Opinion Quarterly\" that the \"Studies in Prejudice Series\" promised to be valuable in the study of intergroup relationships and prejudice, and that \"Lowethal and Guterman especially deserve praise for a wise and significant volume\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25217", "title": "Qi", "text": "Qi\n\nIn traditional Chinese culture, qi or ch'i () is believed to be a vital force forming part of any living entity. \"Qi\" translates as \"air\" and figuratively as \"material energy\", \"life force\", or \"energy flow\". \"Qi\" is the central underlying principle in Chinese traditional medicine and in Chinese martial arts. The practice of cultivating and balancing \"qi\" is called \"qigong\".\n\nBelievers of \"qi\" describe it as a vital energy whose flow must be balanced for health. Qi is a pseudoscientific, unverified concept, which has never been directly observed, and is unrelated to the concept of energy used in science (vital energy is itself an abandoned scientific notion).\n\nThe cultural keyword \"qì\" is analyzable in terms of Chinese and Sino-Xenic pronunciations. Possible etymologies include the logographs 氣, 气, and 気 with various meanings ranging from \"vapor\" to \"anger\", and the English loanword \"qi\" or \"ch'i\".\n\nThe logograph 氣 is read with two Chinese pronunciations, the usual \"qì\" 氣 \"air; vital energy\" and the rare archaic \"xì\" 氣 \"to present food\" (later disambiguated with 餼).\n\nPronunciations of 氣 in modern varieties of Chinese with standardized IPA equivalents include: Standard Chinese \"qì\" /t͡ɕʰi⁵¹/, Wu Chinese \"qi\" /t͡ɕʰi³⁴/, Southern Min \"khì\" /kʰi²¹/, Eastern Min \"ké\" /kʰɛi²¹³/, Standard Cantonese \"hei\" /hei̯³³/, and Hakka Chinese \"hi\" /hi⁵⁵/.\n\nPronunciations of 氣 in Sino-Xenic borrowings include: Japanese \"ki\", Korean \"gi\", and Vietnamese \"khi\".\n\nReconstructions of the Middle Chinese pronunciation of 氣 standardized to IPA transcription include: /kʰe̯i/ (Bernard Karlgren), /kʰĭəi/ (Wang Li), /kʰiəi/ (Li Rong), /kʰɨj/ (Edwin Pulleyblank), and /kʰɨi/ (Zhengzhang Shangfang).\n\nReconstructions of the Old Chinese pronunciation of 氣 standardized to IPA transcription include: /*kʰɯds/ (Zhengzhang Shangfang) and /*C.qʰəp-s/ (William H. Baxter and Laurent Sagart).\n\nThe etymology of \"qì\" interconnects with Kharia \"kʰis\" \"anger\", Sora \"kissa\" \"move with great effort\", Khmer \"kʰɛs\" \"strive after; endeavor\", and Gyalrongic \"kʰɐs\" \"anger\".\n\nIn the East Asian languages, \"qì\" has three logographs:\nIn addition, \"qì\" 炁 is an uncommon character especially used in writing Daoist talismans. Historically, the word \"qì\" was generally written as 气 until the Han dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE), when it was replaced by the 氣 graph clarified with \"mǐ\" 米 \"rice\" indicating \"steam (rising from rice as it cooks.)\"\n\nThis primary logograph 气, the earliest written character for \"qì,\" consisted of three wavy horizontal lines seen in Shang dynasty (c. 1600–1046 BCE) oracle bone script, Zhou dynasty (1046–256 BCE) bronzeware script and large seal script, and Qin dynasty (221–206 BCE) small seal script. These oracle, bronze, and seal scripts logographs 气 were used in ancient times as a phonetic loan character to write \"qǐ\" 乞 \"plead for; beg; ask\" which did not have an early character.\n\nThe vast majority of Chinese characters are classified as radical-phonetic characters. Such characters combine a semantically suggestive \"radical characters\" with a phonetic element approximating ancient pronunciation. For example, the widely known word \"dào\" 道 \"the Dao; the way\" graphically combines the \"walk\" radical 辶 with a \"shǒu\" 首 \"head\" phonetic. Although the modern \"dào\" and \"shǒu\" pronunciations are dissimilar, the Old Chinese \"*lˤuʔ-s\" 道 and \"*l̥uʔ-s\" 首 were alike. The regular script character \"qì\" 氣 is unusual because \"qì\" 气 is both the \"air radical\" and the phonetic, with \"mǐ\" 米 \"rice\" semantically indicating \"steam; vapor\".\n\nThis \"qì\" 气 \"air/gas radical\" was only used in a few native Chinese characters like \"yīnyūn\" 氤氲 \"thick mist/smoke\", but was also used to create new scientific characters for gaseous chemical elements. Some examples are based on pronunciations in European languages: \"fú\" 氟 (with a \"fú\" 弗 phonetic) \"fluorine\" and \"nǎi\" 氖 (with a \"nǎi\" 乃 phonetic) \"neon\". Others are based on semantics: \"qīng\" 氫 (with a \"jīng\" 巠 phonetic, abbreviating \"qīng\" 輕 \"light-weight\") \"hydrogen (the lightest element)\" and \"lǜ\" 氯 (with a \"lù\" 彔 phonetic, abbreviating \"lǜ\" 綠 \"green\") \"(greenish-yellow) chlorine\".\n\n\"Qì\" 氣 is the phonetic element in a few characters such as \"kài\" 愾 \"hate\" with the \"heart-mind radical\" 忄or 心, \"xì\" 熂 \"set fire to weeds\" with the \"fire radical\" 火, and \"xì\" 餼 \"to present food\" with the \"food radical\" 食.\n\nThe first Chinese dictionary of characters, the \"Shuowen Jiezi\"(121 CE) notes that the primary \"qì\" 气 is a pictographic character depicting 雲气 \"cloudy vapors\", and that the full 氣 combines 米 \"rice\" with the phonetic \"qi\" 气, meaning 饋客芻米 \"present provisions to guests\" (later disambiguated as \"xì\" 餼).\n\nQi is a polysemous word. The unabridged Chinese-Chinese character dictionary \"Hanyu Da Cidian\" defines it as \"present food or provisions\" for the \"xì\" pronunciation but also lists 23 meanings for the \"qì\" pronunciation. The modern \"ABC Chinese-English Comprehensive Dictionary,\" which enters \"xì\" 餼 \"grain; animal feed; make a present of food\", and a \"qì\" 氣 entry with seven translation equivalents for the noun, two for bound morphemes, and three equivalents for the verb. n. ① air; gas ② smell ③ spirit; vigor; morale ④ vital/material energy (in Ch[inese] metaphysics) ⑤ tone; atmosphere; attitude ⑥ anger ⑦ breath; respiration b.f. ① weather 天氣 \"tiānqì\" ② [linguistics] aspiration 送氣 \"sòngqì\" v. ① anger ② get angry ③ bully; insult.\n\nQi was an early Chinese loanword in English. It was romanized as \"k'i\" in Church Romanization in the early-19th century, as \"ch'i\" in Wade–Giles in the mid-19th century (sometimes misspelled \"chi\" omitting the apostrophe), and as qi in Pinyin in the mid-20th century. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" entry for \"qi\" gives the pronunciation as IPA (tʃi), the etymology from Chinese \"qì\" \"air; breath\", and a definition of \"The physical life-force postulated by certain Chinese philosophers; the material principle.\" It also gives eight usage examples, with the first recorded example of \"k'í\" in 1850 (\"The Chinese Repository\"), of \"ch'i\" in 1917 (\"The Encyclopaedia Sinica\"), and \"qi\" in 1971 (Felix Mann's \"Acupuncture\")\n\nReferences to concepts analogous to qi are found in many Asian belief systems. Philosophical conceptions of qi from the earliest records of Chinese philosophy (5th century BCE) correspond to Western notions of humours, the ancient Hindu yogic concept of \"prana\", and the traditional Jewish concept of \"nefesh\". An early form of qi comes from the writings of the Chinese philosopher Mencius (4th century BCE).\n\nThe ancient Chinese described qi as \"life force\". They believed it permeated everything and linked their surroundings together. Qi was also linked to the flow of energy around and through the body, forming a cohesive functioning unit. By understanding the rhythm and flow of qi, they believed they could guide exercises and treatments to provide stability and longevity.\n\nAlthough the concept has been important within many Chinese philosophies, over the centuries the descriptions of qi have varied and have sometimes been in conflict. Until China came into contact with Western scientific and philosophical ideas, the Chinese had not categorized all things in terms of matter and energy. Qi and \"li\" (理: \"pattern\") were 'fundamental' categories similar to matter and energy.\n\nFairly early on, some Chinese thinkers began to believe that there were different fractions of qi—the coarsest and heaviest fractions formed solids, lighter fractions formed liquids, and the most ethereal fractions were the \"lifebreath\" that animated living beings. \"Yuán qì\" is a notion of innate or prenatal qi which is distinguished from acquired qi that a person may develop over their lifetime.\n\nThe earliest texts that speak of qi give some indications of how the concept developed. In the Analects of Confucius qi could mean \"breath\". Combining it with the Chinese word for blood (making 血氣, \"xue\"–\"qi\", blood and breath), the concept could be used to account for motivational characteristics:\n\nThe philosopher Mozi used the word qi to refer to noxious vapors that would in eventually arise from a corpse were it not buried at a sufficient depth. He reported that early civilized humans learned how to live in houses to protect their qi from the moisture that troubled them when they lived in caves. He also associated maintaining one's qi with providing oneself with adequate nutrition. In regard to another kind of qi, he recorded how some people performed a kind of prognostication by observing qi (clouds) in the sky.\n\nMencius described a kind of qi that might be characterized as an individual's vital energies. This qi was necessary to activity and it could be controlled by a well-integrated willpower. When properly nurtured, this qi was said to be capable of extending beyond the human body to reach throughout the universe. It could also be augmented by means of careful exercise of one's moral capacities. On the other hand, the qi of an individual could be degraded by adverse external forces that succeed in operating on that individual.\n\nLiving things were not the only things believed to have qi. Zhuangzi indicated that wind is the \"qi\" of the Earth. Moreover, cosmic yin and yang \"are the greatest of qi. He described qi as \"issuing forth\" and creating profound effects. He also said \"Human beings are born [because of] the accumulation of \"qi\". When it accumulates there is life. When it dissipates there is death... There is one \"qi\" that connects and pervades everything in the world.\"\n\nAnother passage traces life to intercourse between Heaven and Earth: \"The highest Yin is the most restrained. The highest Yang is the most exuberant. The restrained comes forth from Heaven. The exuberant issues forth from Earth. The two intertwine and penetrate forming a harmony, and [as a result] things are born.\"\n\nThe Guanzi essay \"Neiye\" (Inward Training) is the oldest received writing on the subject of the cultivation of vapor \"[qi]\" and meditation techniques. The essay was probably composed at the Jixia Academy in Qi in the late fourth century B.C.\n\nXun Zi, another Confucian scholar of the Jixia Academy, followed in later years. At 9:69/127, Xun Zi says, \"Fire and water have \"qi\" but do not have life. Grasses and trees have life but do not have perceptivity. Fowl and beasts have perceptivity but do not have \"yi\" (sense of right and wrong, duty, justice). Men have \"qi\", life, perceptivity, and \"yi\".\" Chinese people at such an early time had no concept of radiant energy, but they were aware that one can be heated by a campfire from a distance away from the fire. They accounted for this phenomenon by claiming \"\"qi\" radiated from fire. At 18:62/122, he also uses \"qi\"\" to refer to the vital forces of the body that decline with advanced age.\n\nAmong the animals, the gibbon and the crane were considered experts at inhaling the \"qi\". The Confucian scholar Dong Zhongshu (ca. 150 BC) wrote in Luxuriant Dew of the Spring and Autumn Annals: \"The gibbon resembles a macaque, but he is larger, and his color is black. His forearms being long, he lives eight hundred years, because he is expert in controlling his breathing.\" (\"猿似猴。大而黑。長前臂。所以壽八百。好引氣也。\")\n\nLater, the syncretic text assembled under the direction of Liu An, the Huai Nan Zi, or \"Masters of Huainan\", has a passage that presages most of what is given greater detail by the Neo-Confucians:\n\nThe \"Huangdi Neijing\" \"(\"\"The Yellow Emperor's Classic of Medicine\", circa 2nd century BCE) is historically credited with first establishing the pathways, called meridians, through which qi circulates in the human body.\n\nIn traditional Chinese medicine, symptoms of various illnesses are believed to be either the product of disrupted, blocked, and unbalanced \"qi\" movement through meridians or deficiencies and imbalances of qi in the \"Zang Fu\" organs. Traditional Chinese medicine often seeks to relieve these imbalances by adjusting the circulation of \"qi\" using a variety of techniques including herbology, food therapy, physical training regimens (qigong, t'ai chi ch'uan, and other martial arts training), moxibustion, \"tui na\", or acupuncture.\n\nThe nomenclature of Qi in the human body is different depending on its sources, roles, and locations. For sources there is a difference between so-called \"Primordial Qi\" (acquired at birth from one's parents) and Qi acquired throughout one's life. Or again Chinese medicine differentiates between Qi acquired from the air we breathe (so called \"Clean Air\") and Qi acquired from food and drinks (so-called \"Grain Qi\"). Looking at roles Qi is divided into \"Defensive Qi\" and \"Nutritive Qi\". Defensive Qi's role is to defend the body against invasions while Nutritive Qi's role is to provide sustenance for the body. Lastly, looking at locations, Qi is also named after the Zang-Fu organ or the Meridian in which it resides: \"Liver Qi\", \"Spleen Qi\", etc. \nA qi field (\"chu-chong\") refers to the cultivation of an energy field by a group, typically for healing or other benevolent purposes. A qi field is believed to be produced by visualization and affirmation. They are an important component of Wisdom Healing'Qigong (\"Zhineng Qigong\"), founded by Grandmaster Ming Pang.\n\nConcepts similar to qi can be found in many cultures.\n\n\"Prana\" in Hinduism and Indian culture, \"chi\" in the Igbo religion, \"pneuma\" in ancient Greece, \"mana\" in Hawaiian culture, \"lüng\" in Tibetan Buddhism, \"manitou\" in the culture of the indigenous peoples of the Americas, \"ruah\" in Jewish culture. In Western philosophy, notions of \"energeia\", \"élan vital\", or vitalism are purported to be similar.\n\nSome elements of the \"qi\" concept can be found in the term 'energy' when used in the context of various esoteric forms of spirituality and alternative medicine.\n\nElements of the concept of Qi can also be found in Eastern and Western popular culture:\n\n\nQi is a non-scientific, unverifiable concept. A 1997 consensus statement on acupuncture by the United States National Institutes of Health noted that concepts such as qi \"are difficult to reconcile with contemporary biomedical information\".\n\nThe 2014 Skeptoid podcast episode titled \"Your Body's Alleged Energy Fields\" related a Reiki practitioner's report of what was happening as she passed her hands over a subject's body:\n\nEvaluating these claims, author and scientific skeptic Brian Dunning reported:\n\nThe traditional Chinese art of geomancy, the placement and arrangement of space called feng shui, is based on calculating the balance of qi, interactions between the five elements, yin and yang, and other factors. The retention or dissipation of qi is believed to affect the health, wealth, energy level, luck, and many other aspects of the occupants. Attributes of each item in a space affect the flow of qi by slowing it down, redirecting it or accelerating it. This is said to influence the energy level of the occupants.\n\nOne use for a \"luopan\" is to detect the flow of qi. The quality of qi may rise and fall over time. Feng shui with a compass might be considered a form of divination that assesses the quality of the local environment.\n\nQìgōng (气功 or 氣功) involves coordinated breathing, movement, and awareness. It is traditionally viewed as a practice to cultivate and balance qi. With roots in traditional Chinese medicine, philosophy and martial arts, \"qigong\" is now practiced worldwide for exercise, healing, meditation, and training for martial arts. Typically a \"qigong\" practice involves rhythmic breathing, slow and stylized movement, a mindful state, and visualization of guiding qi.\n\nQi is a didactic concept in many Chinese, Korean and Japanese martial arts. Martial qigong is a feature of both internal and external training systems in China and other East Asian cultures. The most notable of the qi-focused \"internal\" force (jin) martial arts are Baguazhang, Xing Yi Quan, T'ai Chi Ch'uan, Southern Praying Mantis, Snake Kung Fu, Southern Dragon Kung Fu, Aikido, Kendo, Hapkido, Aikijujutsu, Luohan Quan, and Liu He Ba Fa.\n\nDemonstrations of \"qi\" or \"ki\" are popular in some martial arts and may include the unraisable body, the unbendable arm, and other feats of power. Some of these feats can alternatively be explained using biomechanics and physics.\n\nAcupuncture is a part of traditional Chinese medicine that involves insertion of needles into superficial structures of the body (skin, subcutaneous tissue, muscles) at acupuncture points to balance the flow of qi. This is often accompanied by moxibustion, a treatment that involves burning mugwort on or near the skin at an acupuncture point.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "747048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=747048", "title": "Raymond Geuss", "text": "Raymond Geuss\n\nRaymond Geuss (; born 1946), Emeritus Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Cambridge, is a political philosopher and scholar of 19th and 20th century European philosophy. Geuss is primarily known for three reasons: his early account of ideology critique in \"The Idea of a Critical Theory\"; a recent collection of works instrumental to the emergence of Political Realism in Anglophone political philosophy over the last decade, including \"Philosophy and Real Politics\"; and a variety of free-standing essays on issues including aesthetics, Nietzsche, contextualism, phenomenology, intellectual history, culture and ancient philosophy.\n\nGeuss took both his undergraduate (B.A., \"summa cum laude\", 1966) and graduate (Ph.D., 1971) degrees at Columbia University, where he wrote his thesis under the direction of Robert Denoon Cumming, but was also greatly influenced by Sidney Morgenbesser. He taught at Princeton University, Columbia University, and University of Chicago in the United States and at Heidelberg and Freiburg in Germany before taking up a lecturing post at Cambridge in 1993. In 2000 he became a naturalised British citizen. He was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 2011.\n\nGeuss has supervised the graduate work of several prominent scholars working in the history of continental philosophy, social and political philosophy and in the philosophy of art.\n\nGeuss has published eleven books of philosophy, of which four are collections of essays. They are: \"The Idea of a Critical Theory: Habermas and the Frankfurt School\"; \"Morality, Culture, and History\"; \"Public Goods, Private Goods\"; \"History and Illusion in Politics\"; \"Glueck und Politik\"; \"Outside Ethics\", \"Philosophy and Real Politics,\" \"Politics and the Imagination,\" \"A World without Why\", \"Reality and its Dreams\", and \"Changing the Subject: Philosophy from Socrates to Adorno\", which has just appeared from Harvard University Press. He has also co-edited two critical editions of works of Nietzsche, \"The Birth of Tragedy\" and \"Writings from the Early Notebooks.\" Geuss has also published two collections of translations/adaptations of poetry from Ancient Greek, Latin and Old High German texts.\n\nAlasdair MacIntyre has written the following about Geuss:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40305789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40305789", "title": "Sally Scholz", "text": "Sally Scholz\n\nSally J. Scholz (born 1968) is an American Professor of Philosophy at Villanova University and former editor of \"\" (she resigned in 2017 due to the role that she played in the \"Hypatia\" transracialism controversy). Her research focuses on social and political philosophy and feminist theory. Her early work involves issues of violence against women, oppression and peacemaking, and then progresses to ethics of advocacy and violence against women in conflict settings, including war rape and just war theory. Her recent research involves these issues in addition to solidarity. She has published four single-author books and edited three academic journals, among many other publications.\n\nScholz received her Bachelor of Arts degree from University of Portland in 1989, with a double major in Philosophy and Theology and a minor in French. She received her Master of Arts in Philosophy in 1991 and her Ph.D. in Philosophy in 1993, both from Purdue University.\n\nScholz worked as a legal advocate for victims of domestic violence during her time in Indiana. She served as an Assistant Professor at Villanova after she received her Ph.D., and then served as a Visiting Scholar at Chiang Mai University and Stanford University from 1997 to 1998. She was promoted to Associate Professor at Villanova in 2001, becoming Professor in 2006. She served as the Faculty in Residence in the Center for Peace and Justice Education from 2005 to 2010. She is currently a member of the American Philosophical Association (APA) Board as Chair of the Committee of Lectures, Publications and Research and serves as Vice President of the North American Society for Social Philosophy.\n\nScholz's research specializes in social philosophy, political philosophy, ethics and feminist theory. Her work is influenced by Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Simone de Beauvoir. Her other early work involves issues of violence against women, oppression and peacemaking, with many essays focusing on war rape and just war theory. Her later work addresses these issues along with solidarity, as explored in her book \"Political Solidarity\" (2008). Her work on solidarity involves research on collective movements for social change and global and transnational feminist accounts of solidarity.\n\nScholz served as Editor of \"APA Newsletter on Feminism and Philosophy\" from 2003 to 2008 and Co-editor for the \"Journal for Peace and Justice Studies\" from 2006 to 2011. She is the former Editor of \"Hypatia\", and she resigned in 2017 due to the \"Hypatia\" transracialism controversy that took place under her stewardship. She has published four single-author books: \"On de Beauvoir\" (2000), \"On Rousseau\" (2001), \"Political Solidarity\" (2008) and \"Feminism: A Beginner's Guide\" (2010). She co-edited \"Peacemaking: Lessons from the Past, Visions for the Future\" (2000) with Judith Presler and \"The Contradictions of Freedom: Philosophical Essays on Simone de Beauvoir’s Les Mandarins\" (2005) with Shannon M. Mussett. She has published 20 peer reviewed journal articles, 10 anthology contributions and 20 book reviews. She also contributed articles to the \"Encyclopedia of Global Justice\" (2011), edited by Deen Chatterjee.\n\nIn \"Political Solidarity\", Scholz argues for greater nuance in the meaning of solidarity and highlights three distinct types of solidarity: social solidarity, civic solidarity, and political solidarity. She finds all three types of solidarity importantly distinct, although they do have some unifying characteristics. Scholz goes to great efforts to avoid vagueness when discussing concepts, providing concrete articulations of concepts like 'injustice' and 'oppression,' rather resorting to vague or demogogic treatments of such concepts. Scholz notes that effective political solidarity can only occur through a \"genuine mutually shared commitment to a cause.\" Scholz argues that political solidarity is a moral relation among humans; political solidarity with non-human animals, then, is not possible but political solidarity on behalf of nonhuman animals is. Some ecofeminists have challenged her on this point, seeking to conceptualize solidarity with non-humans. Scholz has suggested that a more fruitful approach is to think of the moral relations of social solidarity with non-human animals. \n\n"}
{"id": "43192875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43192875", "title": "Salvador Jara Guerrero", "text": "Salvador Jara Guerrero\n\nSalvador Jara Guerrero (born 14 October 1955) is a Mexican philosopher, physicist and professor. He served as Governor of Michoacán beginning on 20 June 2014, following the resignation of Fausto Vallejo.\n\nHe also was rector of the Universidad Michoacana de San Nicolás de Hidalgo from 2011 until 2014.\n"}
{"id": "247196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247196", "title": "Sex-positive movement", "text": "Sex-positive movement\n\nThe sex-positive movement is a social movement and philosophical movement that promotes and embraces sexuality and sexual expression, with an emphasis on safe and consensual sex. Sex-positivity is \"an attitude towards human sexuality that regards all consensual sexual activities as fundamentally healthy and pleasurable, encouraging sexual pleasure and experimentation.\" The sex-positive movement also advocates for comprehensive sex education and safe sex as part of its campaign.\" The movement generally makes no moral distinctions among types of sexual activities, regarding these choices as matters of personal preference.\n\nThe terms and concept of sex-positive (German: \"sexuell positiv\") (or, alternately sex-affirmative (\"sexuell bejahend\")) and sex-negative (\"sexuell negativ\") are generally attributed to Wilhelm Reich. His hypothesis was that some societies view sexual expression as essentially good and healthy, while others have a generally negative view of sexuality and seek to repress and control libido. Other terms used to describe this concept include \"pro-sex\", or \"pro-sexuality\".The sex-positive movement does not, in general, make moral or ethical distinctions between heterosexual or homosexual sex, or masturbation, regarding these choices as matters of personal preference. Other sex-positive positions include acceptance of BDSM and polyamory as well as asexuality. The sex-positive movement is also concerned with the teaching of comprehensive and accurate sex education in schools.Some sex-positive theorists have analyzed sex-positivity in terms of the intersection of race/culture, gender, sexuality, class, nationality, and spirituality.\n\nBecause of the vastness of the sex-positivity movement, it has been challenging for people to reach an agreed upon definition of the term \"sex-positivity.\" Several definitions of sex-positivity have been offered by sexologist Carol Queen:\"Sex-positive\", a term that's coming into cultural awareness, isn't a dippy love-child celebration of orgone – it's a simple yet radical affirmation that we each grow our own passions on a different medium, that instead of having two or three or even half a dozen sexual orientations, we should be thinking in terms of millions. \"Sex-positive\" respects each of our unique sexual profiles, even as we acknowledge that some of us have been damaged by a culture that tries to eradicate sexual difference and possibility.It’s the cultural philosophy that understands sexuality as a \"potentially\" positive force in one’s life, and it can, of course, be contrasted with sex-negativity, which sees sex as problematic, disruptive, dangerous. Sex-positivity allows for and in fact celebrates sexual diversity, differing desires and relationships structures, and individual choices based on consent.\n\n\"Main articles: 1960s counterculture, Free Love and Sexual revolution\"\n\nIn general use, the term sexual liberation is used to describe a socio-political movement, witnessed from the 1960s into the 1970s. However, the term has been used at least since the late 1920s and is often attributed as being influenced by Freud's writing on sexual liberation and psychosexual issues, as well as Wilhelm Reich, who originally coined the term.\n\nDuring the 1960s, a shift in the ways people thought about sexuality began to take place, heralding a period of de-conditioning in some circles away from old world antecedents, and developing new codes of sexual behavior, many of which have since been integrated into the mainstream.\n\nThe 1960s also heralded a new culture of \"free love\" with millions of young people embracing the hippie ethos and preaching the power of love and the beauty of sex as a natural part of ordinary life. Hippies believed that sex and sexuality were natural biological phenomena which should be neither denied nor repressed. Changes in attitudes reflected a perception that traditional views on sexuality were both hypocritical and chauvinistic.\n\nSexual liberalization heralded a new ethos in experimenting with open sex in and outside of marriage, contraception and the pill, public nudity, gay liberation, legalized abortion, interracial marriage, a return to natural childbirth, women's rights and feminism.\n\nCelibate hippies were not critical of those who chose the paths of \"free love\" and \"sexual liberalization\". In the late 1970s and 1980s, newly won sexual freedoms were exploited by big businesses looking to capitalize on a more open society, with the advent of public pornography.\n\nHistorian David Allyn argues that the sexual revolution was a time of \"coming-out\": about premarital sex, masturbation, erotic fantasies, pornography use, and sexuality.\n\nSex-positive feminism, also known as pro-sex feminism, sex-radical feminism, or sexually liberal feminism, is a movement that began in the early 1980s. Some became involved in the sex-positive feminist movement in response to efforts by anti-pornography feminists, such as Catharine MacKinnon, Andrea Dworkin, Robin Morgan and Dorchen Leidholdt, to put pornography at the center of a feminist explanation of women's oppression. This period of intense debate and acrimony between sex-positive and anti-pornography feminists during the early 1980s is often referred to as the \"Feminist Sex Wars\". Other sex-positive feminists became involved, not in opposition to other feminists, but in direct response to what they saw as patriarchal control of sexuality. Some authors who have advocated sex-positive feminism include Ellen Willis, Susie Bright, Patrick Califia, Gayle Rubin, Carol Queen, Avedon Carol, Tristan Taormino, Diana Cage, Nina Hartley, and Betty Dodson.\n\nIn opposition, sex-negativity takes on conservative definitions of human sexuality. Under this guise, sex is seen as a destructive force except under the contract of a marriage. Sexual acts are ranked hierarchically, with marital heterosexuality at the top of the hierarchy and masturbation, homosexuality, and other sexualities that deviate from societal expectations closer to the bottom. Medicine and psychiatry are said to have also contributed to sex-negativity, as they may, designate some forms of sexuality that appear on the bottom of this hierarchy as being pathological \"(see Mental illness)\".\n\nSince the early 2000s, the sex-positivity movement has continued to move closer into the mainstream. The advent of social media has made the sex-positivity more accessible by giving advocates of the movement platforms to promote their beliefs to a wide audience of followers. By extending the reach of the movement, sex-positivity has come to be inclusive of all sorts of sex and sexuality. Shaming has become an area of particular interest within the sex-positivity movement, encouraging people to be more open and accepting of the different experiences people have with sex and sexuality. Slut-shaming, prude-shaming and kink-shaming have all been challenged by the sex-positivity movement in an effort to allow all people to feel supported by and included in the movement.\n\nPop culture has also played a large role in bringing the sex-positivity movement into the mainstream. Celebrities, including Lady Gaga, Amber Rose, Jessica Biel, Cameron Diaz, Taylor Swift and many others, have spoken publicly about their experiences with slut-shaming, sexuality, sexual assault, body acceptance and overall sexual health and responsibility.\n\nIn 2018, Viceland, an American television station, began airing a sex-positive series called \"Slutever\", hosted by Karley Sciortino.\n\n"}
{"id": "1593115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1593115", "title": "Shams Tabrizi", "text": "Shams Tabrizi\n\nShams-i-Tabrīzī () or Shams al-Din Mohammad (1185–1248) was a Persian Muslim, who is credited as the spiritual instructor of Mewlānā Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Balkhi, also known as Rumi and is referenced with great reverence in Rumi’s poetic collection, in particular \"Diwan-i Shams-i Tabrīzī (The Works of Shams of Tabriz)\". Tradition holds that Shams taught Rumi in seclusion in Konya for a period of forty days, before fleeing for Damascus. The tomb of Shams-i Tabrīzī was recently nominated to be a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nAccording to Sipah Salar, a devotee and intimate friend of Rumi who spent forty days with him, Shams was the son of the Imam Ala al-Din. In a work entitled \"Manāqib al-‘arifīn\" (\"Eulogies of the Gnostics\"), Aflaki names a certain ‘Ali as the father of Shams-i Tabrīzī and his grandfather as Malikdad. Apparently basing his calculations on Haji Bektash Veli's \"Maqālāt\" (\"Conversations\"), Aflaki suggests that Shams arrived in Konya at the age of sixty years. However, various scholars have questioned Aflaki’s reliability.\n\nShams received his education in Tabriz and was a disciple of Baba Kamal al-Din Jumdi. Before meeting Rumi, he apparently traveled from place to place weaving baskets and selling girdles for a living. Despite his occupation as a weaver, Shams received the epithet of “the embroiderer” (\"zarduz\") in various biographical accounts including that of the Persian historian Dawlatshah. This however, is not the occupation listed by Haji Bektash Veli in the \"Maqālat\" and was rather the epithet given to the Ismaili Imam Shams al-din Muhammad, who worked as an embroiderer while living in anonymity in Tabriz. The transference of the epithet to the biography of Rumi’s mentor suggests that this Imam’s biography must have been known to Shams-i Tabrīzī’s biographers. The specificities of how this transference occurred, however, are not yet known.\n\nOn 15 November 1244, a man in a black suit from head to toe came to the famous inn of Sugar Merchants of Konya. His name was Shams Tabrizi. He was claiming to be a travelling merchant. As it was said in Haji Bektash Veli's book, \"Makalat\", he was looking for something which he was going to find in Konya. Eventually he found Rumi riding a horse.\n\nOne day Rumi was reading next to a large stack of books. Shams Tabriz, passing by, asked him, \"What are you doing?\" Rumi scoffingly replied, \"Something you cannot understand.\" (This is knowledge that cannot be understood by the unlearned.) On hearing this, Shams threw the stack of books into a nearby pool of water. Rumi hastily rescued the books and to his surprise they were all dry. Rumi then asked Shams, \"What is this?\" To which Shams replied, \"Mowlana, this is what you cannot understand.\" (This is knowledge that cannot be understood by the learned.)\n\nA second version of the tale has Shams passing by Rumi who again is reading a book. Rumi regards him as an uneducated stranger. Shams asks Rumi what he is doing, to which Rumi replies, \"Something that you do not understand!\" At that moment, the books suddenly catch fire and Rumi asks Shams to explain what happened. His reply was, \"Something you do not understand.\"\n\nAnother version of the first encounter is this: In the marketplace of Konya, amid the cotton stalls, sugar vendors, and vegetable stands, Rumi rode through the street, surrounded by his students. Shams caught hold of the reins of his donkey and rudely challenged the master with two questions. “Who was the greater mystic, Bayazid [a Sufi saint] or Muhammad?” Shams demanded. \"What a strange question! Muhammad is greater than all the saints,\" Rumi replied. \"So, why is it then that Muhammad said to God, ‘I didn’t know you as I should have,’ while Bayazid proclaimed, ‘Glory be to me! How exalted is my Glory! [that is, he claimed the station of God himself]?\" Rumi explained that Muhammad was the greater of the two, because Bayazid could be filled to capacity by a single experience of divine blessings. He lost himself completely and was filled with God. Muhammad’s capacity was unlimited and could never be filled. His desire was endless, and he was always thirsty. With every moment he came closer to God, and then regretted his former distant state. For that reason he said, “I have never known you as I should have.” It is recorded that after this exchange of words, Rumi felt a window open at the top of his head and saw smoke rise to heaven. He cried out, fell to the ground, and lost consciousness for one hour. Shams, upon hearing these answers, realized that he was face to face with the object of his longing, the one he had prayed God to send him. When Rumi awoke, he took Shams’s hand, and the two of them returned to Rumi’s school together on foot.\n\nAfter several years with Rumi in Konya, Shams left and settled in Khoy. As the years passed, Rumi attributed more and more of his own poetry to Shams as a sign of love for his departed friend and master. In Rumi's poetry Shams becomes a guide of Allah's (Creator) love for mankind; Shams was a sun (\"Shams\" means \"Sun\" in Arabic) shining the Light of Sun as guide for the right path dispelling darkness in Rumi's heart, mind, and body on earth. The source of Shams' teachings was the knowledge of Ali ibn Abu Talib, who is also called \"the father of sufism\".\n\nAccording to contemporary Sufi tradition, Shams Tabrizi mysteriously disappeared: some say he was killed by close disciples of Mowlana Jalaluddin Rumi who were jealous of the close relationship between Rumi and Shams, but according to many certain evidences he left Konya and died in Khoy where he was buried. Sultan Walad, Rumi's son, in his \"Walad-Nama\" mathnawi just mentions that Shams mysteriously disappeared from Konya with no more specific details.\n\nShams Tabrizi's tomb in Khoy, beside a tower monument in a memorial park, has been nominated as a World Cultural Heritage Center by UNESCO.\n\nThe \"Maqalat-e Shams-e Tabrizi\" (\"Discourse of Shams-i Tabrīzī\") is a Persian prose book written by Shams. The \"Maqalat\" seems to have been written during the later years of Shams, as he speaks of himself as an old man. Overall, it bears a mystical interpretation of Islam and contains spiritual advice.\nSome excerpts from the \"Maqalat\" provide insight into the thoughts of Shams:\n\n\nAn array of mystical poetry, laden with devotional sentiments and strong ‘Alid inclinations, has been attributed to Shams-i Tabrīzī across the Persian Islamic world. Scholars such as Gabrielle van den Berg have sometimes questioned whether these were really authored by Shams-i Tabrīzī. However later scholars have pointed out that it may instead be a question of whether the name Shams-i Tabriz has been used for more than one person. Van den Berg suggests that this identification is the pen name of Rumi. However she acknowledges that, despite the large number of poems attributed to Shams, that comprise the devotional repertoire of the Ismailis of Badakhshan, an overwhelming majority of these cannot be located in any of the existing works of Rumi. Rather, as Virani observes, some of these are located in the \"Rose Garden of Shams\" (Gulzār-i Shams), authored by Mulukshah, a descendent of the Ismaili Pir Shams, as well as in other works.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15767886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15767886", "title": "Shuichi Thomas Kurai", "text": "Shuichi Thomas Kurai\n\nShuichi Thomas Kurai (December 14, 1947—June 29, 2018) was a Japanese-born Soto Zen roshi and head abbot of Sozenji Buddhist Temple in Montebello, California. Raised in a Soto temple in Japan, he moved to California with his parents in 1952, where his father (Reverened Shuyu Kurai) served as priest at the Zenshuji Soto Mission in Little Tokyo. In addition to his role as a Zen teacher, Kurai also instructed others in how to play taiko. Kurai was a member of the American Zen Teachers Association.\n\nKurai died on June 29, 2018 at the age of 70 following a diagnosis of adult T-Cell leukemia.\n\n"}
{"id": "34736774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34736774", "title": "Shuji Imamoto", "text": "Shuji Imamoto\n\nHe majored in German Studies. Then he got doctor's degrees of European philosophy and continued to study at the graduate course of Tokyo University (social and interdisciplinary studies).\n\nAfter graduation, he published papers and reports on socio-philosophical issues, for example \"On metaphysical liberalism\", then presented at various international conferences and lectured at many universities in Europe and USA.\n\nIn 1998, he founded a group “Political Forum on the Internet” (PFI Japan) and gathered activists to act for Participatory Democracy System (Referendum and Initiative) in Japan. He has also participated in Worldwide Direct Democracy Movement (WDDM) since 2000.\n\nIn 2001, he published the book “Liberal Power --- Condition to overcome a badly-sickened society”.\n\nHe participated in Global Greens Conference 2001 in Australia, thereafter he got involved in Green movement worldwide. He then joined a lot of events and campaigns held by European Greens, interviewed them many times, and introduced them in eco-media of Japan, so that they should hope to found a Green party of Japan.\n\nTo realise the target, he founded a new Green think tank Ecolo Japan in 2004 with his small company at the beginning. Thereafter he planned and conducted many lectures, symposiums, seminars and campaigns in relation to Green politics around Tokyo, the capital area of Japan, from 2005 to 2011.\n\nIn 2005 and 2007, he translated political books and materials by German Greens into Japanese.\n\nIn 2008, he also attended the 2nd Global Greens Conference in Brazil 2008 as a Japanese delegate. There, Ecolo Japan was admitted as full-membership in Asia Pacific Greens Network (APGN), a regional branch of Global Greens Federation.\n\nAfter retiring as an APGN committee member, he founded the ECOXIA Institute for Promoting Sustainable Society and Economy in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "38265297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38265297", "title": "Testament of Ieyasu", "text": "Testament of Ieyasu\n\n, also known as Ieyasu precepts or Legacy of Ieyasu, was a formal statement made by Tokugawa Ieyasu.\n\nIeyasu was the head of the Tokugawa shogunate. His words were spoken and written down at the time of his abdication as \"shōgun\". Witnesses included Honda Masazumi (1565–1637) and two Buddhist priests. The original historical document is in the archives of the Tōshō-gū shrine at Nikkō in Tochigi Prefecture. \n\nThis political statement provided guidance to his successors. \n\nA translation of Ieyasu's words is: \n\nAn alternate translation is:\n"}
{"id": "23057360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23057360", "title": "The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars", "text": "The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\n\nThe Twenty-four Filial Exemplars, also translated as The Twenty-four Paragons of Filial Piety (), is a classic text of Confucian filial piety written by Guo Jujing (郭居敬) during the Yuan dynasty (1260–1368). The text was extremely influential in the medieval Far East and was used to teach Confucian moral values.\n\nThe text is generally attributed to Guo Jujing (郭居敬) but other sources suggested two other possible authors or editors: Guo Shouzheng (郭守正) and Guo Juye (郭居業).\n\nSome of the stories in \"The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\" were taken from other texts such as the \"Xiaozi Zhuan\" (孝子傳), \"Yiwen Leiju\", \"Imperial Readings of the Taiping Era\" and \"In Search of the Supernatural\".\n\nThere were earlier precedents of \"The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\". A Buddhist \"bianwen\" titled \"Ershisi Xiao Yazuowen\" (二十四孝押座文), which was among the manuscripts discovered in Dunhuang's Mogao Caves, is the oldest extant text related to \"The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\". During the Southern Song dynasty, the artist Zhao Zigu (趙子固) drew a painting, \"Ershisi Xiao Shuhua Hebi\" (二十四孝書畫合璧), about \"The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\". During the Yuan dynasty, the scholar Xie Yingfang (謝應芳) mentioned in \"Gui Chao Ji\" (龜巢集) that a certain Wang Dashan (王達善) once praised \"The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\" and the \"Classic of Filial Piety\". During the Qing dynasty, Wu Zhengxiu (吳正修) mentioned in \"Ershisi Xiao Gu Ci\" (二十四孝鼓詞) that the Twenty-four Filial Exemplars were very well known.\n\nAfter the release of \"The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\", revised editions of the text and other similar works were published. Some of these include: \"Riji Gushi Daquan Ershisi Xiao\" (日記故事大全二十四孝; \"Complete Diary Stories of the Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\"), \"Nü Ershisi Xiao\" (女二十四孝; \"Female Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\"), and \"Nan Nü Ershisi Xiao\" (男女二十四孝; \"Male and Female Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\").\n\nThe philologist Yang Bojun mentioned the development of \"The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\" in \"Jingshu Qiantan\" (經書淺談). After the book was compiled by Guo Shouzheng during the Yuan dynasty, a new illustrated edition with drawings by Wang Kexiao (王克孝) was released, and this made the book even more popular. Towards the end of the Qing dynasty, Zhang Zhidong and others edited and expanded the book and released it as \"Bai Xiao Tu Shuo\" (百孝圖說; \"Illustrated Hundred Stories of Filial Piety\").\n\nThe concept of filial piety has played a strong role in Chinese culture since ancient times. There was also a tradition of filial mourning, in which a person had to temporarily put aside whatever he/she was doing when his/her parent(s) died and mourn for three years. There were sayings such as \"When a ruler wants a subject to die, the subject must die; when a father wants a son to die, the son must die\", and \"A loyal subject should be sought from a family with filial sons.\"\n\nHowever, in contemporary times, some stories in \"The Twenty-four Filial Exemplars\" are regarded as negative examples. These stories include the extreme example of Guo Ju deciding to kill his son so that he could free up his son's share of the family's food consumption to feed his mother. The negative examples also include stories in which the protagonist harms himself in the process of fulfilling filial piety, such as Wu Meng allowing mosquitoes to suck his blood in the hope that they would not bother his parents, and Wang Xiang lying naked on ice to thaw the ice so that he could catch fish for his mother.\n\nThere are some stories which are heavily criticised and even deemed contrary to Confucian principles. One example is the story of Cai Shun being rewarded by the Chimei rebels for his filial piety. The story paints the rebels in a positive light when they actually violated the Confucian virtue of loyalty to one's country. Another example is the story of Laolaizi behaving in a childish manner to amuse his parents. The modern writer Lu Xun said that Laolaizi's story is \"an insult to the ancients, and a bad influence on future generations\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30248", "title": "Theory of justification", "text": "Theory of justification\n\nThe theory of justification is a part of epistemology that attempts to understand the justification of propositions and beliefs. Epistemologists are concerned with various epistemic features of belief, which include the ideas of justification, warrant, rationality, and probability. Loosely speaking, justification is the reason that someone (properly) holds a belief.\n\nWhen a claim is in doubt, \"justification\" can be used to support the claim and reduce or remove the doubt. Justification can use empiricism (the evidence of the senses), authoritative testimony (the appeal to criteria and authority), or reason.\n\nJustification focuses on beliefs. This is in part because of the influence of the definition of knowledge as \"justified true belief\" often associated with a theory discussed near the end of the Plato's dialogues \"Meno\" and \"Theaetetus\". More generally, theories of justification focus on the justification of statements or propositions.\n\nThe subject of justification has played a major role in the value of knowledge as \"justified true belief\". Some contemporary epistemologists, such as Jonathan Kvanvig assert that justification isn't necessary in getting to the truth and avoiding errors. Kvanvig attempts to show that knowledge is no more valuable than true belief, and in the process dismissed the necessity of justification due to justification not being connected to the truth.\n\nJustification is the reason why someone properly holds a belief, the explanation as to why the belief is a true one, or an account of how one knows what one knows. In much the same way arguments and explanations may be confused with each other, as may explanations and justifications. Statements that are justifications of some action take the form of arguments. For example, attempts to justify a theft usually explain the motives (e.g., to feed a starving family).\n\nIt is important to be aware when an explanation is \"not\" a justification. A criminal profiler may offer an explanation of a suspect's behavior (e.g.; the person lost his or her job, the person got evicted, etc.), and such statements may help us understand why the person committed the crime. An uncritical listener may believe the speaker is trying to gain sympathy for the person and his or her actions, but it does not follow that a person proposing an explanation has any sympathy for the views or actions being explained. This is an important distinction because we need to be able to understand and explain terrible events and behavior in attempting to discourage it.\n\nThere are several different views as to what entails justification, mostly focusing on the question \"How sure do we need to be that our beliefs correspond to the actual world?\" Different theories of justification require different amounts and types of evidence before a belief can be considered justified. Theories of justification generally include other aspects of epistemology, such as knowledge.\n\nPopular theories of justification include:\n\nIf a belief is justified, there is something that justifies it, which can be called its \"justifier\". If a belief is justified, then it has at least one justifier. An example of a justifier would be an item of evidence. For example, if a woman is aware that her husband returned from a business trip smelling like perfume, and that his shirt has smudged lipstick on its collar, the perfume and the lipstick can be evidence for her belief that her husband is having an affair. In that case, the justifiers are the woman's awareness of the perfume and the lipstick, and the belief that is justified is her belief that her husband is having an affair.\n\nNot all justifiers have to be what can properly be called \"evidence\"; there may be some substantially different kinds of justifiers available. Regardless, to be justified, a belief has to have a justifier.\n\nThree things that have been suggested as justifiers are:\n\nAt least sometimes, the justifier of a belief is another belief. When, to return to the earlier example, the woman believes that her husband is having an affair, she bases that belief on other beliefs—namely, beliefs about the lipstick and perfume. Strictly speaking, her belief isn't based on the evidence itself—after all, what if she did not believe it? What if she thought that all of that evidence were just a hoax? What if her husband commonly wears perfume and lipstick on business trips? For that matter, what if the evidence existed, but she did not know about it? Then, of course, her belief that her husband is having an affair wouldn't be based on that evidence, because she did not know it was there at all; or, if she thought that the evidence were a hoax, then surely her belief couldn't be based on that evidence.\n\nConsider a belief \"P\". Either \"P\" is justified or \"P\" is not justified. If \"P\" is justified, then another belief \"Q\" may be justified by \"P\". If \"P\" is not justified, then \"P\" cannot be a justifier for any other belief: neither for \"Q\", nor for \"Q\"'s negation.\n\nFor example, suppose someone might believe that there is intelligent life on Mars, and base this belief on a further belief, that there is a feature on the surface of Mars that looks like a face, and that this face could only have been made by intelligent life. So the justifying belief is: that face-like feature on Mars could only have been made by intelligent life. And the justified belief is: there is intelligent life on Mars.\n\nBut suppose further that the justifying belief is itself unjustified. It would in no way be one's intellectual right to suppose that this face-like feature on Mars could have only been made by intelligent life; that view would be irresponsible, intellectually speaking. Thus, such a belief is unjustified because the justifier on which it depends is itself not justified.\n\n\nThe major opposition against the theory of justification (also called justificationism in this context) is non-justificational criticism (a synthesis of skepticism and absolutism), which is most notably held by some of the proponents of critical rationalism: W. W. Bartley, David Miller and Karl Popper. (But not all proponents of critical rationalism oppose justificationism; it is supported most prominently by John W. N. Watkins.)\n\nIn justificationism, criticism consists of trying to show that a claim cannot be reduced to the authority or criteria that it appeals to. That is, it regards the justification of a claim as primary, while the claim itself is secondary. By contrast, non-justificational criticism works towards attacking claims themselves.\n\nBartley also refers to a third position, which he calls critical rationalism in a more specific sense, claimed to have been Popper's view in his \"Open Society\". It has given up justification, but not yet adopted non-justificational criticism. Instead of appealing to criteria and authorities, it attempts to describe and explicate them.\n\nFogelin claims to detect a suspicious resemblance between the Theories of Justification and Agrippa's five modes leading to the suspension of belief. He concludes that the modern proponents have made no significant progress in responding to the ancient modes of pyrrhonic skepticism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1128924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128924", "title": "William Parker Foulke", "text": "William Parker Foulke\n\nWilliam Parker Foulke (1816–1865) discovered the first full dinosaur skeleton in North America (\"Hadrosaurus foulkii\", which means \"Foulke's big lizard\") in Haddonfield, New Jersey in 1858.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, and a descendant of Welsh Quakers who had emigrated in 1698, William Parker Foulke was an abolitionist, prison reformer, pamphleteer, philanthropist, lawyer, historian and geologist, the last of which directly led to the discovery, which was partially named for him by Joseph Leidy and for which he is now best-known.\nFoulke was admitted to the Pennsylvania bar in 1841, though the law could hardly be said to be his life's work. Four years later he began an association with the two reforms that would occupy so much time and energy in his short life. Sensitized to the problems of incarceration through his legal training, Foulke joined the Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the Miseries in Public Prisons in July 1845.\n\nFoulke spent several years comparing alternative disciplinary models and writing on correctional issues in the \"Journal on Prison Discipline and Philanthropy\". Following a tour of mid-Atlantic correctional institutions in 1847 and 1848, Foulke was instrumental in erecting the new Lancaster County Prison, and contributed materially to later penitentiaries in several other counties in Pennsylvania. He was associated with the American Association for Improvement of Prison Discipline and the Convention of State Prison Wardens.\n\nFoulke also supported the Pennsylvania Colonization Society, an antislavery organization that resettled as many as 1,000 freed slaves per year in West Africa (Liberia). Despite mounting opposition from different sides, Foulke never wavered in his support for resettlement until his own death in 1865, by which time he was Vice-President of the Society.\n\nFoulke financially supported the American Academy of Music, and was a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences (Philadelphia), the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, and, like his grandfather John Foulke (1757–1796), the American Philosophical Society.\n\nHe was an avid natural historian and geologist, supportive of the first arctic explorations.\n\nIn 1855, Foulke married Julia DeVeaux Powel (died 1884), daughter of Col. John Hare Powel, with whom he had seven children. He died on June 18, 1865.\n\n"}
{"id": "11902898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11902898", "title": "Wolfgang Smith", "text": "Wolfgang Smith\n\nWolfgang Smith (born 1930) is a mathematician, physicist, philosopher of science, metaphysician, Roman Catholic and member of the Traditionalist School. He has written extensively in the field of differential geometry, as a critic of scientism and as a proponent of a new interpretation of quantum mechanics that draws heavily from medieval ontology and realism. A documentary film is currently in development about Dr. Smith's life and thought.\n\nSmith graduated in 1948 from Cornell University with a B.A. in Philosophy, Physics and Mathematics. Two years later he obtained his M.S. in Physics from Purdue University and, some time later, a Ph.D in Mathematics from Columbia University.\n\nHe worked as a physicist in Bell Aircraft corporation, researching aerodynamics and the problem of atmospheric reentry. He was a mathematics professor at MIT, UCLA and Oregon State University, doing research in the field of differential geometry and publishing in academic journals such as the \"Transactions of the American Mathematical Society\", the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\", the \"American Journal of Mathematics\", and others. He retired from academic life in 1992.\n\nIn parallel with his academic duties, he developed and still develops philosophical inquiries in the fields of metaphysics and the philosophy of science, publishing in specialized journals such as \"The Thomist\" and \"Sophia: The Journal of Traditional Studies\".\n\nSmith is a member of the Traditionalist School of metaphysics, having contributed extensively to its criticism of modernity while exploring the philosophical underpinnings of the scientific method and emphasizing the idea of bringing science back into the Aristotelian framework of traditional ontological realism.\n\nIdentifying with Alfred North Whitehead's critique of the \"bifurcationism\" and \"physical reductionism\" of scientism—i.e., the belief that, first, the qualitative properties of the objects of perception (\"corporeal\" objects) are ultimately distinct from their respective quantitative properties (the \"physical\" objects studied by the various sciences); and second, that physical objects are in fact all there is, meaning corporeal objects are reduced to their physical counterparts—Smith examines critically in his work \"Cosmos and Transcendence\" (1984) the Cartesian roots of modern science.\n\nProceeding with his critique of scientism in his monograph, \"The Quantum Enigma\" (1995), Smith raises the questions of whether the scientific method is in fact dependent on the scientistic philosophy and, if it is not, whether linking it to other philosophical frameworks would provide better solutions to the way physical phenomena are interpreted. Demonstrating that neither the scientific method nor its results require adhering to a scientistic metaphysics, he answers in the negative to the first question, resulting in the conclusion that it is possible to link the scientific method to any underlying ontology, or to none at all. Working then into the second question, he proposes linking the scientific method—and thus the modern sciences—to a non-bifurcationist, non-reductionist metaphysics in the form of a modified Thomistic ontology, showing how such a move resolves the apparent incoherences of quantum mechanics.\n\nAccording to Smith, this interpretation of quantum mechanics allows for the usage of the hylomorphic concepts of potency and act to properly understand quantum superposition. For example, instead of considering that a photon is \"simultaneously a wave and a particle\" or \"a particle in two distinct positions,\" one may consider that the photon (or any other physical object) at first does not exist \"in act\", but only \"in potency\"; i.e., as \"matter\" in the hylomorphic meaning of the term, having the \"potential\" of becoming \"a wave or a particle,\" or \"of being here or there.\" Whether one of these outcomes will happen to this undifferentiated matter is dependent on the determination imposed upon it by the macroscopic corporeal object that provides its \"actualization\". A photon, thus, would be no more strange for having many potentials than, say, an individual who has the \"superposed\" potentials of learning French and/or Spanish and/or Greek, all the while reading and/or walking and/or stretching his arms. A further consequence of this interpretation is that a corporeal object and its \"associated physical object\" are not dichotomized or reduced one to the other anymore but, on the contrary, altogether constitute a whole of which different aspects are dealt with depending upon perspective.\n\nSmith's understanding of the relationship between corporeal and physical objects extends to his interpretation of biology, where he has become an opponent of Darwinian evolution, as the fundamental element in a species would be its form, not its causal history, which evolutionists favor. This leads him to be a supporter of the intelligent design movement, though his own hylomorphic approach is not widely adopted by mainstream intelligent design theorists (who, like evolutionists, also favor causal history, albeit differently).\n\nSmith has also taken a stance towards a relativistic rehabilitation of geocentrism. It is important to note, however, that he does not support a Ptolemaic or medieval geocentrism unequivocally, nor assert that heliocentrism is absolutely false. Rather, he argues that, according to the theory of relativity, both heliocentrism and geocentrism have scientific merit, insofar as scientific observation depends upon the reference frame of the observer. Consequently, any observations made from Earth (or any near-Earth satellites) are in effect geocentric.\n\nBooks written by Wolfgang Smith or including his contributions:\n\nFrench translation : \n- Wolfgang Smith, Sagesse de la cosmologie ancienne : Les cosmologies Traditionnelles face à la science contemporaine, French translation by Jean-Claude Perret and Pierre-Marie Sigaud, with careful reading of by Michel Bénot, Kostas Mavrakis and Jean Borella ; Collection \"Théôria\", Editions de L'Harmattan, Paris, 2008.\n\nArticles on philosophy, religion, physics and non-mathematical subjects in general:\n\nAcademic articles on mathematics signed as \"J. Wolfgang Smith\":\n\n"}
